{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__fealy___the_pilgrim_prophet_and_me.pdf","mytitle":"The Pilgrim Prophet And Me","mylang":"de"}
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
Primary Prin c iples, Mind Powers, Br ea th , J esus of
N azareth , T h e Master Ma n , Success, E m aculate
C o n c eptio n , Four K eys, and m a n y o th ers.
Founder of t h e A ltruria n Order of Mystics, and
Mem ber of t h e Great W h it e Brotherhood.
BISHOP L. A. FEALY
Author of
VOL. I
I AM I
Series
Published by
A LTR U RIA N SOCIETY
Bir m in g h a m , A l a .
I F \<\<\<\
. F s u
COPYRIGHTED, 1938, BY L. A. FEALY
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
.*• :
•' *
©
ClA 1 24257
DEC 27 (938
«i
A
-J-S-
PREFACE
In presenting a treatise in narration, so remarkable in
laws given and practices made possible, I am following
forty years introspection as these things occurred.
It is in fact a documentary evidence of success of which
I have the documents. While the personal name, with
consent, is often given, the others are fictitious in name,
but actual in fact. Therefore these names do not repre­
sent any living person.
I have also given the actual lessons, that have been
taught the many. For these, I believe, are an advantage
to the devotee and interesting to many.
The period over which this narrative goes is close to
half a century, while some of the incidents have to do with
my childhood.
It is, I think, the only book published that gives a
scientific connection with religion, and the only one that
gives a practical entrance into what Christ did and the
methods used.
I have no excuse to offer in pretense, for these things
are true; "And the truth shall make you free” .
L. A. FEALY.
Birmingham, Alabama,
November, 1938.
vii
TABLE OF CO N TEN TS
Chapter 1
Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Chapter 4
Chapter 5
Chapter 6
Chapter 7
Chapter 8
Chapter 9
Chapter 10
Chapter 11
Chapter 12
Chapter 13
Chapter 14
Chapter 15
Chapter 16
Chapter 17
Chapter 18
Chapter 19
Chapter 20
Chapter 21
Chapter 22
Chapter 23
Chapter 24
Chapter 25
Chapter 26
Chapter 27
Chapter 28
Chapter 29
Chapter 30
Chapter 31
Chapter 32
Chapter 33
Chapter 34
Chapter 35
Chapter 36
Chapter 37
Chapter 38
Chapter 39
Chapter 40
Chapter 41
Chapter 42
Page
1—Love and love’s way
9—Love comes across the border line
20—The Great White Brotherhood
34—Principles underlying the I AM, Pragmatism
45—Believing, the first absolute essential
57—The G. W. B. Catechism
65—The Subconscious is entered
77—The G. W. B. Catechism in six parts
87—Mortification is control of the body
98—Brotherhood Catechism
106—Concentration and initiation
117—Brotherhood Catechism
126—Concentration and isolation
138—Brotherhood Catechism
146—Vision the power of the Soul
156—Brotherhood Catechism
164—There are two personalities within
175—Love is the greatest thing in the world
185—Physical and mental practices
194—The way to the Subconscious
204— Getting acquainted with the Subjective
216—The Spirit and Soul await preparation
227—The meaning of three personalities
238—Inner personalities build the body
249—Spiritual consciousness
261—One here and one with me always
272—Take it to the world and teach
283—The Prophet and Pilgrim are mental persons
293—Being born again
304—I AM the resurrection and the life
313—A practice of fundamental principles
323—Practice reveals the hidden personalities
332—The Pilgrim, Prophet and me walk together
342—Disciples become initiates
352—The Pilgrim comes into authority
362—Essentials of bringing the Pilgrim out
371—The Pilgrim brings out the hidden
381—Economic system
394— Money freedom
402—Delegated power
409—Man’s work
417—Real value
FOREWORD
(From a Letter from M3; Son)
October 5, 1938.
. I think that the story of your life, with the
varying group of personalities that have entered it from
time to time ’»would be of tremendous interest. I have
seen the ill and unfortunate tread to your door and many
of them leave with cured bodies and a renewed hope in
the future; many left before they were cured and many
left before their time because of their inability to absorb
the verbal lashings you bestowed. All of them remem­
bered you and that you had something unattainable to
ordinary intellects—many, many of them came again and
again, bringing sons and daughters and in time grandsons
and granddaughters. Your percentage of cures was higher
by far than many of the best surgeons and doctors, and
you worked mainly, at the start on those whose hope had
been shattered about relief from ordinary sources. I think
you should be very glad that you trod the path you have
as you look back at the great good you have done. It is
doubtless a feeling of "Well done, my good and faithful
servant. . .
Always, I love you,
Devotedly,
W illia m .
xi
PART ONE
Preliminary to the I-AM-I Principles
gained in youth and through sickness that
led to the G REAT W HITE BRO TH ER­
HOOD I had childhood playmates of spirit-
land.
There is nothing said in this that reveals
the brotherhood, its place or the men behind
the movement.
I am giving it, for you to accept it in
imagination, and a basis to a very great and
practical philosophy.
i
I AMI
C h a pter I
LOVE A N D LOVE’S W AY IS UNIVERSAL IN TH E
FAM ILY OF MAN
Love is always the same creative power. It always has
been, is, and will forever be the same.
It reaches its power force in "I love you, and love you,”
for then it is expressing peace and goodwill.
It is variable in expression and goes with the emotions
of the race and of society as it is accepted individually.
And, although the same force, is known according to ex­
pression. For sometimes it is cold and austere, while at
others it is kindly and warmhearted.
These two forms go through families; some hiding love
through the fires of eternity, while others are open and
frankly fond.
The difference is not in love, but in disposition. So,
exposition in the expression of the love principle is often
mistaken, either through austerity or warmheartedness,
to be something different in principle.
Still, love is a fundamental common to all and is found
in every expression of affection from the animal to the
family of man.
It is love of father and mother for their children. The
children for parents. It is a giving principle, one to
another, going out from parents to relatives, friends and
all expressions of affection measured outward from the
parent stock. Marriage and family affection are the basis
of the solidarity of love. This goes beyond sex, and, while
not sex, is that something giving to everything, harmony.
[ 1 I
2 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
Love in giving—is all revealing, for it showers gifts
upon the object of affection, because the urge is to give.
Its rew/ard being in the "substance of things hoped for
and the evidence of things unseen.” Then is uniting,
with love pressed down and heaping over.
Individuals fail, but love never does. However, no one
can experience it without knowing its power. I had such
an experience in youth. It changed my attitude from the
ego to one of idealization, in which the " I ” felt it could
do all things for the object of affection.
And thus love was expressed for me as an ideal poten­
tial power; changing the world from the drab seriousness
of poverty to a rosy tinted future of prosperity and hap­
piness where we two would- be one in solidarity and con­
tentment.
Everyone, I am sure, dreams of happiness and a pros­
perous living—when love calls one person to another in
the harmony of peace and understanding.
Its great want is association, nearness and the joy of
sharing. It is the same whether physical or spiritual— in
want, and is cultivated by continuity. My youthful
awakening did not have the power to resist distance and
so did not last long, save as a wonderful memory.
I left love’s young dream to seek fortune, and love does
not bear divided interest. Still it always remained as a
force to be a part in every effort of life, and this is a
universal principle common to the race. For love, as a
fundamental, is "the greatest thing in all the world,” and
also the solvent to make people happy.
In homes where love is, all is well. Fathers and mothers
are happy, and the children take on the blessings of peace.
That is the solidarity of love. They may be in poverty,
but where love abounds there is a riches not measured by
material standards, for it is "the kingdom is here and
amongst men.”
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 3
So, "I love you and love you” is the incessant call of
every mating couple. It is the outward call of an inner
urge. The inner goes to God and the outer brings Him
to the hearts and minds of men, to change— all things and
makes them right.
Love’s dream and love’s call are everywhere and amongst
all people and yet are ever silent ind inactive when sup­
pressed. It is only in activity that the world becomes
conscious of its mighty power, for always it is a messen­
ger of peace.
The solidarity of love is always more than personal for
it connects with God on the one side, and the world of
humanity on the other. And the God, side is abstract
while the man side both abstract and personal. Personal
in association and affection.
The idea of being affectionate in contacts with others
does not appeal to the sex burdened for that is considered
conjugal unburdening; but really affectionate means to
let love be free in its giving of the ineffable "word” in
contacts. And though this becomes close to sex— differs
in that it is free giving.
It is a love that reaches riches and poverty, health and
sickness, happiness and sorrow by giving of its all to make
conditions right and thus it becomes a universal principle.
From earliest recollection love gave the idea of going
places and seeing things. Always it was a seeking after
love and to love with a completeness of power. Indeed to
make of love something to carry the " I ” out of poverty
and ignorance into the heart of things to know.
I have wondered whether this desire to know is not the
common lot of all men; the only difference being in in­
tensity because of vitality, energy and the conscience of
the family.
Love being always the same is modified by the expressor,
and that is not love, but the animal personality with love’s
4 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
message here. Of course, the body separates love into
desire and universality of giving. My early conception
of love was that of the poor, who shared their limited
pleasures with others, and always hoped for better things.
I had the ordinary training of "just folks,” living in a
free country, but gripped with poverty, and therefore had
to make believe they were free. Surely there was not
much in the way of privilege or luxury.
Poor people have most of the emergencies of living
through "the sweat of the face.” In this there is pleas­
ure as well as sorrow,—for it gives a setting,— to culti­
vate the love principle of hope, and is with all a happy
expectation. And so I look backward, contemplating ex­
pectation, peace, contentment and happiness, as well as
the beginning of love’s dream of hope, grounded in toil.
It is no crime to be poor;—the sin is in idleness, sloven­
liness and dirt on the one side. And on the other, from
poverty is the unearned profit of riches. The sin is in
neglecting the greatest thing on earth that always cures
poverty, unhappiness and all manners of sickness: Love’s
power.
My boyhood was one of work on the farm with school
in the winter giving the rudiments of an education. In
addition thereto I had the desire to read. And not being
supplied any great number of books, began to borrow, and
before finishing school, had exhausted the neighborhood
supply.
Outside of reading I had the same inclination of other
boys for play and recreation. And so I was about the
average boy—save in this one thing of reading and of be­
ing alone in a dreamy state, remembering what I had
read. It may be this state of mind that has given me the
discoveries I am to give in this narrative. Anyway, I
know it to be love pressing into service in every conceiv­
able way until it became a master power.
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 5
"Love casts out all fear,” yet I had no great courage.
Unusually sensitive;— I ran from trouble, but could be
goaded into fights. Then it was as if an explosion of
something within,— loosing outer fear,— until the fight
was over.
I later discovered this to be the conscience within that,
loosing poise, lets the outside run without being governed
from within. It is also the reason— for training the out­
side by discipline, and to lay it down— free from fear—
when seeking the God principle. That is, "lay the body
down to be born again.”
There is always the problem with the poor of how to
make a living. And this is especially true of awakened
youth.
The farm had no promises— so I left home in my early
teens to seek work in a not far distant city. There I
worked, attended night school, and read books from the
public library.
The library reading was my great joy, for it was a new
world opened as if by magic. A world giving the thought
of the ages, and strangely enough I loved the ancient and
mystic, and so spent the most of my nights living with the
philosophers of old.
Thus I read Reanult’s Life of Christ— and gained the
idea that the Master lived as well as worked His religion.
It was one of demonstration, and so I wondered if I
could gain a working basis of love to do as He said.
Especially the miracles that made His religion stick— in
place of the Jewish. These miracles seemed the living
evidence of a personal, mighty power.
His was an absence of egotism and a freedom from tra­
ditional usage, giving love power full sway. So I resolved
to suppress the ego and to have and hold love in the
abstract.
6 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
Absence destroys mating love while the ego will be the
divine spark. So to hold both there must be a stability of
love—the same in intensity—whether directed to mating
or that other and greater thing, the universality of
brotherhood without caste, creed or race.
All glory to personal love, to love of family and of
sweetheart. They are the inside of the patter; while
the other is as Christ’s,—for the glory and benefit of the
race.
The Expressor is the part that must be made perfect,
for that is the part of us that gives our level best in the
power of inter-communication, one to another— and
everyone to God.
The Expressor is that part that attunes love in intent
and feeling as used personally. The love of mother is the
mastering power, for it is to her that all turn for their
first intimacies. My mother’s love looked over all my of­
fenses to see only good. That is the object of love, to see
the only good, and do only the true.
She sympathized with my failures and, while disciplin­
ing my mistakes, was always kind and forgiving. I have
always looked upon her as a sympathetic, kind, forgiving
and forgetting person. My earliest love memory.
My father’s love possessed the power of discipline while
dispensing the shelter and comforts of home. It was he
who answered questions of the moment, directing the
young mind into channels of living, according to normal
standards.
My elder sister directed me into the lesser things of
conduct, dress and comfort. Critical of beliefs, she never­
theless sympathized with my "make-believes.” These
v ere the little ones I played with under the shadow of the
old Beech tree” in our yard.
She was the oldest, I the seventh,—and born prema­
turely and so was weak in body and timid. That was
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 7
given— as the reason for these invisible playmates,— who
were real to me. My sister would not let the others of
the family make fun or ridicule the idea.
The others of the family were "m y folks” and about
the same as other families, making fun of me and letting
me alone, but expecting me to carry my part of the every­
day chores. A brother and sister affection to sustain
without being obtrusive. To give and take, quarrel and
make up, but always to stand by in sorrow and in trouble,
or to help from all outside interference.
There was another expression of love that carried a
force of permanence. A something that was more than
family because of sympathy of a neighbor kind. That
was of a splendid middle-aged lady, who, having no chil­
dren of her own, mothered the neighborhood. Good, lov­
able, Aunt Sade. And, with her, the Judge. He was the
informative one, who made the earth interesting to me,
and made me a student with an object.
The Judge taught me the processes of the earth me­
chanics, by fun in hunting Trilobites in the blue clay of
the creek running close to the old home. He, being a
great fisherman and naturalist, had so shaped information
that it became interesting, and from this we began the
study of geology in its fundamentals.
This followed exploration of the Mound-builders who
had previously inhabited this part of the world. How far
back no one knows, but the relics of them, and their im­
plements can be found, and we went on many explorations
for that purpose.
His was a great love, for he was always considerate and
enthusiastic in handing on what he knew. And though
not religious in the sense of belonging to a church, he was
kind, considerate and wonderful. He had a good library
and encouraged me in reading science and philosophy.
8 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
The love of parents, the affection of my family, the
sympathetic love of Aunt Sade and the giving love of the
Judge gave me the conviction that love asking, believing,
was the way and law, and though I did not know its force
then, I since discovered it is the law of growth to ask
believing with love making the asking agreeable to receive
understandingly.
Youth knows little of the principle of love, save in
obedience. This is the something that grows to give un­
derstanding to principles of living one with another. It
is that something within—that is a conquering power—
because it is always adjusting and making straight the
crooked places.
True most of mankind think of love as physical attrac­
tion; and so it is; and is also a soul something that calls
for inner light and life to come abroad. So later I discov­
ered love within can also be spiritual as well as physical.
And this inner consciousness of love is God’s residence
waiting for the mind and body to recognize it in personal
relationships. Then it becomes a consciousness to do
mighty things.
For the inner conscience is the home of God in the body
of man. This is the fact that made me, at an early period
in life, conscious of something bigger than the body. A
something that can and will overcome the flesh.
I did not know the way, save that it must be natural
and for all mankind, and it is. Later, I found it in the
simple expression of I love you.” I love everybody, to
the north and south, to the east and west, I love everybody,
or I AM THAT I AM,” and there cannot be hatred in
the "Kingdom of God.”
SO,„'T AM THE RESURRECTION AN D TH E
I AMI
C h a pter II
LOVE COMES ACROSS T H E BO RD ER LIN E.
IT IS HERE.
Love is a part of everyone according to station and
plane. And this means it is in all life, animal, human, ani­
mate and inanimate, as a current of the "life wave.’
It comes on the breath and goes that way, yet of itself
is always. So, always has been, is, and will always be
that something calling all men home. It is based upon
the fundamental of giving to receive, so at once has a
negative as well as positive action.
Being a positive force in giving, it is always expressed
outwardly as a giving principle, and returning,— fulfills
the law of being— "pressed down and heapipg over;” and
thus is divinity expressed in the heart.
Love being the messenger of God and within, partakes
of divine association in all of its expressions here and now,
—but is always modified by the expressor.
Not all love is expressed as God would have it,— but is
always a part of God within the body— to express His
will.
Therefore the expressor uses as much of God love as
he or she knows of God, no more or less. For this feeling
one has for others— is measured by the expression of one
— to others.
The expressor has the privilege of believing in God and
by meditation "enter into the Kingdom of Heaven” or
waste love in desire. For the love expressor is always the
body and mental attitude; and so is the basis of conscious
expression whether physical or spiritual.
[ 9 ]
10 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
Usually, "I love you” is the call of the mating couple
to one another and means physical uniting and is the soli­
darity of union and understanding going through the
years.
It is the great love experience of all mankind, and so is
universally accepted as the ecstasy of happiness. This is
the outside of the platter. Within is the same force, re­
fined as an essence of the outer love and used as a mighty
power to bring the Pilgrim abroad.
Indeed this is a call upon the "I AM” to come abroad
in the resurrection and life of a new being. So Pilgrim
love is in reality a change of residence— in thought— from
the outer reasoning to inner meditation.
Then love becomes a controlled force to give of its
substance to the inner as well as the outer self. Yet always
in childhood it is outer and possessive, for from the
mother’s cooing to her baby in childhood— there is this
possessive expression of wanting to hold in binding ties
of affection.
However, there is also the other and greater power of
giving, and of asking and believing, of giving and surren­
dering, of seeking to find. And that is the way to the
Kingdom and a love that never dies.
Always in father and mother love, there is the thrill
of protection and possession, and always the fear of death.
Always the great moments are in ecstasy, completeness
and confidence—from one to another. And always the
words of affection and acts of kindness are expressed out­
wardly. And always these come from an inner conscious­
ness of power. It is the same as the mating power— and
has the same longing to unite; save there is a unitine with
the I AM.
Thus love establishes a way into a holy relationship,
that is the same as physical relationship save that it has
an entirely different direction of adoration. So, love of
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 11
an outer and natural affection serves as an inner power to
awaken an inner all-pervading presence.
It is an inner power all can have, for it starts in baby­
hood in depending upon love of parents and then grows
in consciousness as one realizes the power of love to over­
come difficulties in the path of all physical effort. It
may be disease, unhappiness or poverty, yet love and devo­
tion to love cures.
It is in knowing the source of love, in giving it, so that
there begins to flow from within a bubbling spring of
eternal waters. And this brings the Pilgrim abroad to
seek the Kingdom by understanding laws that, created by
meditative thought or prayer, are always expressed in love
of one to another, or all others.
The call of the Pilgrim is a call for the I AM, and the
resurrection and the life to master the body by expressing
love in all physical contacts. He is called into being by
repeating "I AM TH E R ESU RRECTIO N A N D T H E
LIFE” until it sticks as a fundamental in consciousness.
Then is the power of overcoming the weaknesses of the
flesh with love free from guile.
The process stills the mind and makes natural the seeing
powers of the Soul. Therein is a something here that is
sacredly guarded, for it allows no physical doubt, but
always comes abroad in faith and confidence.
I can scarcely remember a time when vision was not
a part of my life. At first it was playing with what
others called make believes” but who were loving per­
sonalities alike to myself, save not seen by others.
They had passed on, and had a lighter body than that
worn here, but perceptible in their state of being that I
was permitted to enter.
This state is entered through love, free from guile and
unafraid. I talked to them and they me. Only if we
12 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
were disturbed when outward things interfered they left.
That is, when folks laughed at me, they disappeared.
I could not understand and cried much about it. And
that was the way and time of my mother comforting. She
seemed to know, and things always seemed better, when
she said it would be.
The picture of her kindly patient face remains in vision
to this day. She would stop her work to inform or talk
about things childhood must know. Her’s was a personal
and intense love. Love of a kind that mellows nature into
its most glorious expression, and through devotion, brings
the heart into union with God.
My little childhood playmates of the "make believe” is
what I remember most intimately in connection with her.
Others made fun, but she did not, saying, "Yes, dear, it is
wonderful and a great comfort I am sure.”
My sister said, "You are dreaming, but it must be fun,”
and so she encouraged. And this about a state of being
that even now is lost to most of the world. Yet, some­
thing similar has knocked at everyone’s door.
I did not know, at the time, that the entrance into see­
ing is always through love without guile. Indeed, a state
of mind that has no objectivity as a hindrance.
It is a universal state of love that contacts objects of
desire creation because they are natural to the creative and
give evidence of it. These "make believes” had that in
perception but did not stop with outer things for this
inner vision gave the power of seeing things hidden or
lost.
So finding things lost became an outer evidence of a
universal power, of seeing without eyes, and hearing with­
out ears. In just knowing things. That was my experi­
ence in lessons, in reading, writing and in solving prob­
lems.
Just let the mind try and give up, and then in the rest,
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 13
the answer will come as if a picture unfolding. Thus, I
received information when I was in harmony with love,
and was silent.
It cannot be displayed or shared. It is not subject to
investigation and is personal. And everyone has the privi­
lege of going into the state of love rapture, and listening,
necessary to revealing.
Childhood is its best beginning, for then the young body
is not polluted with objective thinking, and has a faith
of abiding confidence. And then is the time of the hid­
den and latent door opening to reveal the subsconscious.
Afterwards, if there is not abiding faith, it is lost in
objective teaching. But it can be reawakened by prac­
tices entering into the state of childhood. That of abiding
faith.
All love is good, but in knowing the expressions of it—
into different states of being— and having a basis in feel­
ing, is the way felt toward physical attachments of works.
This love is indeed the same, save more abstract, less pos­
sessive, and is as if the whole world was a kindly friend­
ship, whipped into the enthusiasm of opening the door
to a deeper understanding that does in fact bring forth
another and better self.
Love is the same in all experiences in the ecstasy and
flower of youth. When it it is fanned by sex and mating,
it puts on a new meaning to happiness in expressing the
consciousness of inner urge to live together.
Everyone has this experience and should have in the
flower of youth for then is the time when fundamental
principles are fixed.
It was there where were my "make believes,” and there
where I noticed interference without knowing cause. It
was there where I involuntarily began to talk to myself,
as if I had another person with me. I would talk and get
quiet and then the little playmates.
14 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
I did not realize then, but the talking to myself was a
self adjustment to make the way clear for the other and
better life.
This something I talked to is the Prophet, all that is
best of my higher self. A personality that grows as con­
scientiousness expands until all moot questions are taken
to him; and he answers. He is with all of mankind, but
only comes into the open by cultivation. He urges quiet
and prayer with a meditation that answers questions. And
if He cannot then calls upon prayer and the Pilgrim. He
is my friend and Prophet.
He comes as a thrill, answering. He comes with a way
to find the I AM, and the Pilgrim. He was with me in
the early times of "make believes” giving a feeling of being
unafraid. He it was that a "presence” of love being al­
ways as the redeeming power and also the thrill of body
affection.
That was my experience with Clara in the flowering
period of the teens. We loved or thought we did; it is all
the same. Then change of location cooled the flame with
other interests holding. Still it was a sweet and glorious
experience.
Everyone has love in youth, with some particular one
the object of affection. Sometimes this love lasts through­
out life, and always the memory lasts. The thrill never
dies because the essence of the without goes also within
and then is in devotion to the soul.
It is a feeling free and unafraid and yet without guile
for it carries one beyond temptation into absolute confi­
dence of another or of a hidden presence that is another.
As I think of the Soul testing love, my thoughts are
of Aunt Sade and all she did for me.
She was the neighborhood mother, having no children
we were all her children. She and Uncle Elias, entered
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 15
into our life and so she fed cookies and good things baked
and entered into our play.
To me she was more than just companionable for she
also had a kindred feeling for my "make believe” experi­
ence; asking often how I felt when talking to my little
friends.
A Quaker in belief and clinging to the Spirit moveth
parts, said that she often felt a presence, and knew this
to be a time when she was particularly happy in memory,
and said she believed this to be through love.
I answered, "It is my feeling also, or was when I did
talk, but that time had passed.”
So we began talking of love and the states of mind.
She said love would carry me far, if it was not spoiled,
that is changed into fancy and dream; flitting as the bees
do from one flower to another.
I asked her meaning; and we began discussing the loves
of history. She said none were of a nature to satisfy the
real craving of the human heart, and so I asked what
would.
She answered, "The only love that satisfies is one of
giving and a feeling within the world needs help and that
all people are in need of the sympathy of unselfish love.
To go to them with this love is a gift not harmful to
pride, for it does not put another under obligation. It
makes two people happy at the same time.”
From her talk I realized she had been living in a world
all her own and felt there was something big and beyond
most in the very act of loving.
I asked her about it, and as she ran her fingers through
my hair, said: "Love is like your hair, Larry, just unruly
and must be combed if it is to be changed and a servant
in the house” . That is it has to do for others to get the
great reward.
She said she loved me as your mother loves, only dif-
16 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
ferently. "You see her love is of the flesh condoning and
so she will go through anything for her child. Mine is
more of the Spirit, and you must be of the Spirit to have
and hold. Your mother’s love forgives sin, but God love
is that above sin.”
"Elias and I have never had a child, and so are neighbor­
hood parents. We take up and help those who like it and
are interested. In you who want to know so much and
ask, 'I love you,’ means we will answer.”
She said she had a lot of notions that had been held
very close, and so had been secret because of no one to
talk to. Now that she knew of my "make believes” won­
dered what had kept her from knowing. She wanted my
experience as a help.
She said when morbid or discouraged there was always
the "Silence” and then a something within that gave her
comfort and that was alike what I experienced.
She said: It is a kind of ecstasy that is heaven and every
one can enter.
It is wonderful the sympathy love gives. I felt from
that night on, Aunt Sade had given me entrance into the
"Kingdom of heaven.” It is like being alone with love
and knowing an abiding faith.
It wants companionship the same as any other love,
and so I knew the hunger of the human heart that craves
the divine in human contact. She wanted love free and
unafraid in association with thoughts of another. So that
was the way I entered into the "Kingdom of heaven.”
It is a kingdom where love is supreme and masters the
desires of the body.
It gives in place of desire a conviction of living service.
A something that uses love to overcome the sordid hap­
penings of life.
Aunt Sade became someone to go to who would not
laugh at vision or my youthful playmates and call actual
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 17
happenings dreams or imaginations. For she knew there
are no imaginations in spiritual contacts.
She said, "There are two of us. Two in every one. One
that is reward in word and deed and the other that cre­
ates.” I believed that, and also believed there would be a
time of knowing. It would be a great and glorious time
and thrilling because all love in its highest is that way.
Then like an unfolding plant or flower my ideal met
another milestone on life’s pathway. This time it was a
man who had spent much time in the physical part of
mind unfoldment. He had become versed in hypnotism,
practiced it into efficiency, and wanted others to know.
He was not spiritual, but knew of mind powers. And
thus fate brought me to a great hypnotist who taught the
laws of suggestion.
This included the different states of suggestive formula
for putting another into a hypnotic state. He thus proved
a dual personality here and now.
His principles gave the following practices; first, empty
the mind of all previous thought, by gazing upon a penny
in the hand. This he termed practice in concentration.
Second, he applied the study in suggestion. The plan
was to get some one acceptable and who was willing, and
then have them gaze upon a penny held in the palms of
their hands, with hands crossed before them, while he
droned in a monotone the word sleep.
If sleep followed they were sensitives and then followed
the change of personality from a normal to hypnotic state.
In this state the sensitive assumed a different character
and acted them out as if the body and mind did not re­
member previous or normal states of existence.
These states of mind are based upon abstraction, con­
centration and believing. All principles of love with a
thrilling combination. It is anticipation, interest and in­
tent conquering doubt, skepticism and fear.
18 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
Prof. John did that for me. He gave me the advice of
being sure and of leaving nothing to ignorance in proced­
ure. Instead of going from concentration to love, as one
would go from resolve and love at the Altar to asking be­
lieving in prayer.
He told me it is a self-cultivation, and while it can be
taught others, there is no way of compelling belief, save
in doing. Others, even those hypnotized, often denied
the state and observers, as often, thought it acting. Still
all the world is bound in a common thought of suggestion
and all have the two forms of intelligence.
Hypnotism has its place of demonstrating another life
within the body. One not controlled by mind as ordi­
narily used. It gives the conception of an indwelling
spirit. I had often heard this and felt its power in my
own life. Now I had the way of demonstration upon
another or others; so I began the study of hypnotism as
an outer direction of that which had already been an ex­
perience from "make believes” to this time.
The process is one of abstraction leading away from
egotism and is a body mastery in the scheme of things.
I had been taught individualism as the way to success.
Now I began to feel individualism is only an outer aspect,
while within must be a love that is for every one. It must
be aroused into a living stream of consciousness to give an
outer expression of all that is within. First was All, then
I AM, followed by the Pilgrim as the I AM expressor.
And with these the way and knowledge of expression.
That is the something that connects the body with the
God principle.
I had that something in active use, in the "make believe”
time of childhood, and now must have it again as some­
thing real and true. It is not Spiritual or material, but a
mind something connecting these two, and giving a real
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 19
way for the outer ME to connect with the inner I. That
something is the PROPHET.
It is an inner urge that gives to all the desire to live
always, and some the desire to find the beaten path to an
understanding through which these three may be one.
Like a flower unfolding the hidden part of me began
asking and at the same time guiding as an invisible urge
as if the hand of destiny alike the hand of time, was slowly
shaping through these young years the mind and body to
receive.
Inheritance had given me the love power and destiny
had shaped association to exemplify. I knew I could be
the expressor of it. It was thus my faltering footsteps
were led because of sickness, to the Lodge of "T H E
G REAT W HITE BRO TH ERH O O D,” and initiated into
the mysteries of the three in one and from which I
emerged a PILGRIM.
I AMI
C h apter III
TH E GREAT W HITE BROTHERHOOD CH ANGES
PERSONALITY TO SPIRIT
So the invisible hand of destiny led me to a band of men
gathered together in one union for the purpose of saving
the race from the weaknesses of the flesh.
They healed the sick through love and a Spiritual power,
straightened the crooked places and gave simple laws of
living, giving peace and comfort to all who came "Asking
believing.”
Sickness had made my body weak, with despair clutch­
ing my heart, and fear dulling the thought of mind. Then
a friend gave me the foolish idea of love curing. Curing,
when all else failed.
He said it was Christ’s way of "curing all diseases and
sicknesses.” I listened, believed and accepted, for it seemed
to be a repetition of childhood dreams and my "make be­
lieves”.
Do not say you would not, or that it is so foolish, for
you are not sick, or despairing, and I was. Remember
disease is inharmony. Something away from God. It is
always caused by a violation of law, in some way, volun­
tary or not. Of course, there are remedies, but great
maladies are not cured.
Perhaps eighty per cent will get well anyway, but the
twenty remaining will have to be helped, and then with all
available skill eight will die, leaving only twelve. Now if
one of the eight are helped and recovers that is a miracle.
So when afflicted with a great malady, I regained
[20]
■
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 21
health. It was the morn of a new day and the beginning
of life.
I wanted to shout it to the world, telling all men, "I
have been sick and am now well.” Hear me! Hear me!
There is a glorious way to health, made so by master
minds; who are my brothers, yours and everybody’s.
My friends and brothers would not have it so. For to
them it was the Christ statement, "Tell no one.” Go
preach, go heal. Tell the world of the philosophy and
power and glory of inner conscience, but have no personal
credit.
Tell them of the I AM, the Pilgrim as a representative,
and of the Prophet leading to prayer and counciling, but
of the work, let that speak for itself. "T o only those who
have shall it be taken; and those who receive, shall give.”
I realized I had to know the way and law to give, and
so again "asked believing,” and thus spent time in acquir­
ing law and understanding.
I watched these wonderful men, and entered into the
studies and practices to know. I perceived there was noth­
ing tangible or physical in their efforts. That is, no outer
material physical rule. It was a something that seemed
a sequence of thought to a method of getting well from
within.
They spoke of it as silent and meditative.
It was getting well from all kinds of inharmony; not
along the diseases of the body, but of the mind and soul.
They cured the body sickness, inharmony— and the
dreads of poverty. They gave to the soul a way of free­
dom. It was putting love in the place of evil— and inten­
sifying it through ecstasy until its "red hot fires” burned
evil out of existence. This was the simple plan of my re­
covery. I was healed through love, and taught the prin­
ciples of love healing.
They loved me and my sickness left because of a greater
y
I
22 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
power expressed through sympathy, kindness and con­
sideration.
It was not fawning love, or love demanding, but an
assurance and interest at the time of treating that left out
disease or even the mention of it, while giving to the body
a tingling consciousness of feeling that took the place of
evil feeling.
No one ever mentioned sickness or asked how I felt.
I was told of being better and of getting better every |
day. My conversations were happy because of interest
and anticipation. Every question answered, only the dis­
agreeable were left alone.
I was told how to prepare myself to know the powers
within. The practices necessary. The studies required
and the plan of prayer.
They spoke of the Higher and Lower self and said all
used these two personalities always. The lower was the
animal self and the other that of the mind. While behind
the mind is the principle that gives it light and life of the
I AM, the Pilgrim and the Prophet.
The Prophet being the natural urge principle that be­
comes a living personality by self talk. He listens to the
mind cogitating and reveals the answer. He talks to the
Me as if whispering ambition’s way to know.
Every one talks to themselves for that is the way of per­
sonal argument about the right of things.
It is the fastening principle in memory and is always |
used in study.
The real part though is often neglected. And so to this
part my teachers directed me in meditation to get my
mind and body right to pray in the Silence.
So the Prophet became my intimate confidant and asso­
ciate to make me anxious to listen, please and be anticipa­
tory to realize this inward part talked of. Yet at the be-
i
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 23
ginning I had nothing save a good feeling at times of
treatment and the assurance of health returning.
They taught rest periods. These are times of lying
relaxed for a period of thirty minutes.
They told me to take love to the Altar. To resolve to
be harmonious. To contemplate m y own life. T o medi­
tate upon the I AM . To believe, and to ask believing. To
do this in sequence, one condition of mind after the other
— and if sleep overcame, try to awaken in the half hour,
believing.
N ot to look for phenomenal things, but to remember
the good and that which disturbed, and "ask believing.”
The answer would be returned.
They taught the mental and physical part of going in
the silence was the same as Hypnosis in that there was a
possibility of laying one body down to have another and
this is always prayer, no matter the method.
They taught Breath and the exercises that go with it.
Posture in the relaxation of the body.
Concentration and the pivoting of it as well as the med­
itative laws.
They taught religious observance in the fundamental of
God within as well as everywhere.
They taught faith, confidence, happiness, will, daring,
patience, waiting— and all the requirements of culture that
the body may be fit and willing to follow the lead of the
Prophet into Silence where all things abide.
I was directed into the practices and procedures of self-
induced sleep, and suggestive laws— that made this state
possible. Taught mind powers, and the w ay of their use.
I was informed m y body had to be amenable to physical
law, and association, as well as to be obedient to spiritual
forces.
It is one body with all as the Spirit is one spirit. And
the place of the individual is to know his or her vocation
24 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
in a physical w ay as well as to understand the Spirit.
Thus were the two bodies cultivated through training as
these two bodies became closer and closer in truth and
fact.
These men treated spiritually while using the hands to
adjust the body to make it more comfortable, or to con­
tact a nerve center, and for vibration.
Their hands often quivered, and from their finger tips
there was felt a tingling of new life energy.
Above all it was and is, a state in which the body re­
ceives the love power— as it flows from one to another.
There is nothing strange or queer in the methods, for
all are based upon fundamentals, a part of every individual
and used unconsciously or involuntarily in sympathy and
contacts.
Here these principles are known and used knowingly.
I wondered w hy all people did not understand love’s
power and hold it as a master force in all great and good
things, whether the ecstasy of affection between one
another, or when used to cure evil conditions.
Its power is in the ecstasy of accomplishment and is the
way all remember the great moments in life.
Every experience in the past leaving a happy gladness
was a time of love being supreme.
When it fades or sleeps, it is because of neglect of prin­
ciples while the body is doing physical things.
So neglect and non-use makes the greatest single prin­
ciple of good fade and die away, and then love is lost as
a personal daily experience.
To rebuild is to kindle the fires of affection again and
to practice expression, for the principle while inert is
never lost. Just sleeping. To revive is to go over past
experiences, recollecting them, and then have anticipation
as at the beginning. That can be, when the effort is in
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 2 5
finding love and not the object. It is always in abstract
feeling of love as a closeness to God.
These men had it and cherished the power in every act
of life. Their bodies were subject to the ravages of time
and nature had its sway, but love would stay on forever,
for love is God’s messenger here amongst men. And this
was revealed as a fact in curing the sick.
It was a jealous love in outer aspect, because it did not
m ix with physical remedies, or only so when it was in
command. They said it was not jealousy but abstraction.
A ll things on earth are for some good purpose and so
all foods and remedies are useful in their place and for the
sustenance and cure of the body.
A ll food is a remedy for decaying processes. And medi­
cine is often specific. So all these things are useful but
there needs be discrimination.
To use love and the subconscious being is to know the
great blessing God has given to man. A love that cures
disease and straightens out all problems is indeed the great
elixir; better than a thousand remedies. So the Masters
all use love to cure.
It means to approach the A ltar with love free from
guile. To blend it with faith and to ask believing. To
wait, pray, be silent, have patience and dare to do be­
lieving.
In a physical sense it is laying the body down, or sur­
rendering it to "the indwelling spirit.” That portion is
difficult and so I had trouble in getting my body to sur­
render. I know there is a part that does not die or fear
death, but the other part is sensuous and does not relish
surrender of consciousness— even though temporary. That
part fears.
A ll mankind, when vital, fear death, only to have fear
swept away when sickness or age takes vitality from the
body. I have witnessed many deaths with few indeed
26 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
dying in fear. Fear is before the cloak of night settles on
consciousness to bring about the separating time.
There is another separating time in the life of every in­
dividual— when man has to "la y down his life to find it” .
Then the body life is vital and has all the clinging desire
for "life here upon earth” . So there must be a conquering
fight between desire— and belief— in a Soul everlasting.
This fight goes on until the body is whipped by vibration,
bringing the molecular into a state of vibration to the
Subconscious.
W hen strictly applied this is a period of two years, and
based upon the change of culture and the effect of it on
the body. In my case it was a little over two years.
To the "hotly impetuous it may be almost instant; and
to the careless not at all.” Be the time great or short, it is
a meeting place of elders of the mind to make it conscious
of Soul personality.
This is another thrilling experience 1 like to recall. It is
love in its highest and peace in its greatest; though at the
time fearful in its darkness.
A fter long study periods and practice, I had this expe­
rience of going out of my body and being independent
of it.
These same teachers did that for me in a kind of hyp­
notic rite that unlocked the Soul from bondage of body,
to give the Pilgrim freedom, and me a more intimate
knowledge.
Going out of the body is not what most think it. The
body consciousness does not go and the body is sleeping.
It is the Soul that goes. Goes by being separated from the
body because of conquered desire, and is free.
In this freedom of Soul there is a complete separation
from the body and therefore no memory in the body or
brain of the visit or separation.
Again the experience is alike to babyhood with the
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 2 7
means of thought and understanding to be the result of
growth. And this growth of understanding is fixing re­
solve so that the hidden resources of the mind or plastic
part of brain activity will become conscious of the im ­
pulses of Soul and record its doing.
Again it is study and practice, with all the illusions
of imagination and fancy combatted. Therefore, there is
much prayer and resolve before each experience. So there
was not more than indefinite feeling at first, and then as
years followed this became more and more of a corrective
experience.
M y teachers were men of great ability. One taught the
Mind way and the other the Heart. While with them was
the Master that blended these two doctrines into one.
The Head way is the principles of abstraction and the
Heart the control of emotions.
Always I had the moral code, even from m y earliest
childhood. N ow I W A S G IV E N T H E R E A SO N S FO R
C O N T R O L L IN G T H E B O D Y T H R O U G H T H E
M IN D IN O R D E R T O H A V E PO W ER T O G IV E
T H E SO U L FREED O M .
This control can be of inestimable help in living here
and amongst men. And this is the Heart doctrine.
The Head doctrine is concentration, breath, posture and
the intellectual perceptions that are as A B S T R A C T A S
M A T H E M A T IC S and constitutes mind control.
These studies were fixed in practice and became the
beaten path of both scientific endeavor and a great devo­
tion to the I AM , as the manner by which all evolve out
of matter into atonement to the spirit of life.
The heart w ay is sympathetic, belongs to the humanity
of men and is expressed in generous impulses of kindness,
confidence and good will when on the side of God. When
on the other or earth side there is often tragedy and sor-
28 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
row, sickness and death. Albeit it m ay be mixed with
pleasures that are fleeting.
The heart w ay that leads to God is the law and way.
That is devotion in that the heart is love and makes the
laws of prayer natural in devotion.
While the head fixes the laws of direction to override
the feelings of indolence in doing. Put these two direc­
tions together and there is a blend of mind and heart that
surely leads to body freedom.
So the individual becomes the expressor of law. N ot
that it interferes with natural physical com fort, but modi­
fies the body desires of habit into constructive living.
Such were the subconscious teachings of the Lodge and
the way I was directed out of sickness into health and out
of ignorance into light. On m y part it was and is a slow
awakening; a rough hewn road, with mistakes everywhere;
but as time came with days passing there was enlighten­
ment of the w ay to know the Soul.
T H U S I B E C A M E C O N SC IO U S OF G U A R D IA N
A N G E L S D IR E C T IN G .
Guardian Angels are the whispering messengers of the
Soul attuned to mind and directors of emotions and
thought, as an urge from within to go right. They are
the messengers of everyone; and so all have felt their in­
fluence in solving troubled conditions and are The Father,
Son and H oly Ghost.
They are always present as directors within the human
mind, but are not noticed except in times of stress, save
to those who have surrendered to the divine and are fol­
lowers.
Therefore, they speak to the initiated of the mysteries
of life, and the simple privilege of prayer to unravel prob­
lems, to cure sickness, and make the crooked places
straight.
They came to me in the Silence and became a part of
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 2 9
my Prophet speaking. They led me to a knowledge of the
Pilgrim healing m y body, and a feeling the same power
can heal others. And that is a grand, great and glorious
feeling.
So in time I became duly and truly prepared, worthy,
and well qualified for the Soul to speak unto me. Then
it was the Masters spoke to me of the Soul.
Saying, "This is your Soul, not the body, speaking.
Speaking to you through Guardian Angels that are always
with you. The Soul speaks through the Prophet with
whom you must discuss all your problems as if he were
another person standing by.”
I said, "This means to talk to myself, the same as I did
to the little ones of childhood.” And was informed that
it had to be a habit to make progress to the Kingdom of
God.
It is an individual habit and an individual talking; for
thus all can know the Soul as the Pilgrim and the I AM
as God.
"A s many as receive you in m y name will be blessed;
those who do not must wait until the light shines upon
them, there is no other w ay.”
The directions of the Masters were explicit.
They gave instruction as to health, happiness and pros­
perity.
The way of eliminating the desires of the body in greed
and selfishness.
The principles of Love that must be maintained in
everything in life.
The ideal of faith that never wavers.
The confidence of doing and the realization within is
everlasting life.
They promised a life of fulfillm ent and of growth, the
requirements being as taught. In adherence to a constant
call upon the I AM .
30 A NARRATIVE OF LOVE
The feeling and presence of the Prophet to do the will
of one sent.
The talking to the Prophet— by discussing all problems
with the secret self.
They warned especially to be free from illusions of
the senses and of the ego. N ot to take offense, or to have
enmities. To abide and stay on the God side of the ledger
of life, and to always love all offenses out of existence and
to love every spiritual power into life divine.
To make love a holy and a friendly attitude and to ex­
press love in affection to all. See the good in people and
to live in discovering the good.
Thus the plan for ripening the Soul is the same all use
in the great moments of life toward the object of their
affections. It is a simple wonderful doctrine of love to
change personality into that of Spirit.
Their great teaching is one of personal development to
the consciousness of God within.
The form ula is Pragm atic and the practices belong to
the Silence, Breath, Concentration, Posture, Religious O b­
servance, Resolve, Intention, Anticipation and Realiza­
tion.
They start with what one does not know, or can hardly
define, to an unfolding of mind thought that makes the
Pragmatic understandable, and when so, ceases to be as­
sertion.
It is demonstrated through practice. Proven to be a
very essential need to mankind.
For it gives health to a body, that is always subject to
sickness.
Prosperity to all who ask believing, in a world where
more than ninety per cent are close, very close to want.
Happiness to all who ask believing, and thus it becomes
an elixir for man’s ills in law violation.
And though the basic principle is Pragmatic (for it is
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 31
an assertion without the detail of experience), it becomes
of worth, by adding experience of truths, demonstrable
through having the assertion of I A M as a basis. It is in
this w ay the I A M I is made practical in religious uncov­
ering.
I am giving you the lessons that were given me as nearly
as I remember, and also the Catechism or ritual of the
Brotherhood by which these laws are fixed, and through
which I have solved the problems of many, many thou­
sands of individuals.
The command was and is "G o teach it, to all the world,
as "O ne who is sent.”
To cure disease, of the body, mind and soul, and to
teach happiness, and the joy of living. Demonstrate
abundance without holding fast to the material by which
riches is bound.
Remember riches is within the Kingdom, so is as free
and lasting as breath.
Cultivate the three personalities, One you know, the
other you can talk to, and the last will come forth in all
trials— when the way has been made clear.
A t last all three will be yours to know— with the first
last— and the last first.
W ith these instructions I started on m y journey carry­
ing the Prophet and Pilgrim to the world.
I am going to tell you of personal development and the
w ay of these personalities— as growth unfolds.
P A R T TWO
The Brotherhood treatise and Socratic dialogue— gives
the basis of the Pilgrim, Prophet and Me.
It starts with a Pragm atic principle and tells the w ay
Disciples are taught to accept and know a new w ay to
Health, Happiness and Prosperity.
It is the principle of the I-A M -I— given to change the
Pragmatic into a practical exposition o f truth.
PRAGMATIC PRINCIPLES
The first five books of the Bible, called the
Books of Moses, give the pragmatic statement
of God appearing unto him on Mount Sinia and
giving the tablets that contain the “ Ten Com­
mandments” . From or before this time, other re­
ligions give a like appearance of God.
It is a Pragmatism not sutsained by repeated
appearances— not until the Time of Christ, when
God appeared unto Joseph regarding the birth of
Chirst.
Then Christ is made to speak with God in His
ministry and to say, “ the Father within me, He
doeth the works” .
But aside from His works, there is no direct
way for others to know.
Now comes a personal discovery— of the law
and way, and “ I AM” giving it.
The “ I AM” is not an ascending or descending
spirit of anyone— whether past or present, but
is the law and way of discovering this “ I AM I”
is within and converting it into a living presence.
So first; the lessons on the “ I AM I” .
i
I AM I
C h a pter IV
[L e sso n 1]
I A M I, P IL G R IM , P R O P H E T A N D M E
Principles of Pragmatic the 1 Am I Explained
It was when I was young, and at the beginning of my
work as a healer that I began using the words " I AM
T H A T I A M ,” because they answered an indefinite some­
thing within and at the time satisfied inquiry.
It also implied there was a direct contact with the in­
visible, when "laying on of hands,” or speaking the
"w ord,” seemed to give relief to the sick, poverty stricken
and troubled.
To most it was mysterious and that pleased the ego of
me, for it indicated something others might well marvel
at.
The " I A M ” was not apparent, save in works and— so
really a feeling, as if the "Spirit of God was upon me—
to com fort and help some footsore or sick pilgrim in times
of sickness and distress.”
Early I learned there were contesting forces in the doing
of things; for, "b y what authority do you do these
things?” is asked now, as it was in the time of Christ.
So I turned inward, to ask of myself, what the " I A M
T H A T I A M ” really meant to me. And greatly to m y
surprise, I had no words of explanation.
It was a something within— which gave confidence back
of the consciousness. That is, it is as if another and su­
perior power took possession of the human faculties and
[ 3 4 ]
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 35
straightened out the crooked places, giving peace and
power to the suffering, power to carry on.
It was like asking favors from parents in childhood and
being granted them.
It had a feeling of "now I can.” And I felt as if I did
know— and yet could not put the knowledge in the con­
sciousness of words.
I felt like one initiated into the mysteries of life, w ith­
out explanation. For, somehow the God I felt would not
come abroad to see and be seen.
So the " I A M ” became fixed as a relative privilege of
feeling. And my feeling had to be His feeling toward
men, or what I imagined His presence would make me
feel.
So I asked the way to the " I A M ,” to know and have
the power always at m y command. To feel it, and then
give it to all asking believing.
I was told I had to ask believing and to pray for belief.
N ow that is simple— so simple a child can understand—
but, when a further asking included how, there was no
answer. The pages of religion became a sealed book, with
everlasting silence, suggesting that some men had been
born with superior gifts and knew, while others were like
unripened fruit.
It must be human unfoldm ent; and understanding is a
growth, and so I began a search for that cultivation that
would germinate the seed of immortality in me.
I mean, make it known, for I knew it to be, but not the
way to bring it abroad. This was found in the activity
and reactivity of the mind to suggestion, sound and v i­
bratory laws.
Sound in rhythm tunes of individuals into the sameness
of effort. The Negro in the cotton patch, singing and
hoeing.
The workman straining and lifting according to note.
36 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS
The noise of machinery zooning, all help in a rhythm,
beyond which is a climax and change of personality.
This is proven— and the w ay to mass hynotics. I knew
this, and the methods of hynotism— and so I felt I could
suggest m yself into the knowledge of the " I A M .”
Thus, a confidence in something behind, beyond, or
within that is always God, but which can only be conscious
or personal, when the w ay has been made acceptable to
Divine Law.
Simple as the w ay is, I had not thought of it; nor had
others. And so, at first, I was doubtful as Nicodemus,
and felt I could not and would not "L a y m y body down
or be born again.”
I found I could, and could by repeating mantras of the
power of glory of " I A M ” until I became conscious of a
feeling presence.
That was the beginning of affirm ation. A ffirm in g the
presence of the " I A M .” A ffirm in g it in every way—
and in all its power, from healing disease, curing all man­
ner of sickness, to everything in life’s plan felt.
" I A M ” the resurrection and the life. " I A M ” creation,
doing, living, and being on the side of God. I am love,
life, and joy, and all mantras of living experience.
" I A M ” prosperity, health, and happiness. " I A M ”
the power that carries the body on, and through all d iffi­
culties— for of myself I can do nothing. "The Father w ith­
in me does these things.”
A thousand different mantras, and always against the
ignorance of body limitation, at last gives the conviction
of a living, breathing God within. " I AM T H A T I A M .”
Every day, as a rest and recreation, these mantras were
taken into the silence of prayer, and there morning and
evening in the silence of a half hour, I visioned " I A M ”
as the one and pervading force, and the messenger of it__
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I-AM-I LESSONS 37
being m y love and devotion to the Supreme Soul expressed
in contacts to all mankind.
The " I A M ” of devotion is that belonging to God. The
" I A M ” of restraint, discipline and denial— is that of the
body. And so, these two must be separated in thought
and deed— the outer brought to an acceptance of the
"w ithin” and obedient to it.
It is in the oft repeated mantra, "O f myself, I do noth­
ing, the Father within, He doeth the w ork.”
The power is felt thus in acceptance and realization
that the process of thought is suggestive of the power and
faith in— the power of God— to come forth and do mighty
works, while realizing the body must be a servant.
W ith this m ighty and simple truth fixed, I could answer
the query of "W hat do you mean by 'I A M ,’ and what
do you do afterward?”
I do nothing— save in preparing m y body— by knowing
and understanding practices that bring the " I A M ”
abroad, and so controlling the body by understanding its
weaknesses and principles, that I can use nature’s forces
and laws to give the " I A M ” full sway.
But first, I must have found the force of the " I A M ”
in actual outward demonstration; and this is in the be­
ginning a belief or feeling.
It is the hope of prayer, and the faith of feeling, that
there is help for me. Help in proportion as the door is
opened to the " I A M .”
It is the greatest thing in life, found by repeating man­
tras until the " I A M ” becomes fixed as a partnership with
God, always present though ever silent. Always light, life,
breath, truth, duty, peace, and love.
Love is His messenger here— and all know love— know
it as the greatest thing in the world. So, I am telling the
simple story of " I A M ” as a m ystery of being coming
abroad, by using love, and meditating upon the possibility
38 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS
of the " I A M ” coming abroad as a love messenger.
It makes life over, for love has the power to bring the
" I A M ” to overcome the weaknesses of the flesh. And,
love is a m ighty messenger— whom everyone has in propor­
tion to his love. N o more, and no less.
Love must be in the silences of prayer— as well as in
the acts of doing. Both are prayer, for always, there must
be a connection with the " I A M ” to do. That is, to do
beyond the normal and physical. For, this is the law of
God— to come through on Love’s w ay, and in the silence
of body doing.
Prayer, then, is both receptive and doing. The one
needing preparation and discipline before the other is pos­
sible. Prayer begins here, and as an adjustment of body
desires to the " I A M ” of truth.
Alw ays the body " I A M ” has a different meaning from
the " I A M ” of God. For, God is everlasting and without
desire. H e is never egotistic, and is always law. Love is
His messenger, and all men can have as much of this
Master Love as they can use.
It dissolves fear, doubt and worry, in that the " I A M ”
cannot be thus affected.
So, all men can choose and live on the side they choose,
if they will surrender body control. And this is the long
continuous fight between desire and everlasting life.
One hears it often asserted: "There is nothing hidden,
latent, mysterious, or occult in Christianity.”
"Christ was above board in his teachings, and nothing
is hidden.” A ll of which indicates that the student has
been woefully misled.
For the teaching of the Master is in the conviction of
an "Inner Presence,” coming abroad through prayer to
heal and com fort mankind.
He admits this truth in almost every great event of His
M inistry; in healing, teaching and preaching the "w ord.”
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 39
Always he says: " I of myself do nothing, the Father
within me, H e doeth the w ork.” H e speaks of Him self
as " I am the resurrection and the life.”
He speaks of "these things being hidden from the wise
and prudent, and being revealed unto babes.” H e speaks
of going unto His Father, and of sending a "C om forter,”
while all the time, the m ighty works of healing were being
done to turn the sin-sick world into happiness and the
joy of living.
And it is, and was, as it ever will be, occult, hidden,
and mysterious. Only coming abroad through Faith and
Love, with proper training.
Training is in a belief that the hidden and latent can
be understood through practices of Faith breaking down
material resistance to give a revealed understanding of
God’s presence.
Revelation means to bring the hidden and latent
abroad, the body being in a state of receptivity to know
and understand.
It means to "lay down the body, and be born again,
to be born of the spirit and fire, to be born to a new
hidden and latent understanding of God’s presence.”
He said that His M inistry was to heal the sick, com fort
the broken hearted, make the bruised places straight, and
preach an acceptable doctrine.
In this teaching, there are many other details— but in
truth and fact, it is a doctrine of harmony in all outward
things to Divine Law, and so is the method of the " I A M ”
coming abroad.
To bring this about, there must be Faith, belief, love,
and the surrender of body desires to an everlasting princi­
ple of "G od Presence.”
A ll of this is in abiding acceptance, the same as a child
accepts, and is an attitude of abiding confidence to things
taught.
40 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS
The things taught, remember, are hidden and latent
powers which are based upon the Presence of God within
the body. God, the Omnipotent, Omneiscent, and Omni­
present. A ll in one, and all showing in works, when the
" I A M ” is aroused and active.
So, the disciple has to uncover powers through control
of outer and lesser powers— such as culture, efficiency,
and physical training. But also an abiding faith in a boss
of them, which is a super-power and a part of Divinity.
Indeed, a real " I A M ” which comes abroad directing the
body and mind in all service.
Therefore the body must ask believing. Ask of the "I
A M ,” and repeat the asking until there is consciousness
of contact.
This asking is oft repeated mantras— in prayer periods—
which are different from the spoken prayer, in that they
are times of being alone in meditation. Then, the practice
is in repeating the powers of the " I A M .”
" I A M LIFE , I A M LO V E, I A M the resurrection and
the life.”
Always these mantras are " I A M ,” and reach to every­
thing done or wanting to be accomplished, as right and
proper, or are not against God’s law.
There cannot be desire, greed, fear, or doubt in them.
There cannot be enmity, hate, or immorality. There
cannot be covetousness, thieving, lying or murder. A ll
must be on the side of the " I A M ,” and that means God’s
presence.
It is not a blind asking of the invisible and unknown—
to do something— but a going to the within in thought—
as a child asks parents for things, and gets them because
there is already set up the love of granting.
"A sk believing” is the law, so when this belief is not
strong in faith, pray for belief.
Belief is a subconscious privilege, which all have from
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 41
God, and is never set aside in itself. This is when the
" I A M ” rides in unselfishness to keep the ego from de­
stroying. Belief must also be demonstrated in unselfish
doing, or in abstract doing, such as healing, and the as­
sumption of power through doing, in which belief is test­
ed by outer assurances.
Such as healing, when the disciple says: " I will take
care of you,” and the process of prayer through the " I
A M ” makes this statement true.
The theory of prayer is of itself a belief in God, and
H im to hear and answer.
Were this not true of belief, there would be no use in
prayer for help, succor, or relief.
Still, for the most part, prayers are not answered, and
so, the widespread idea of praying for a future state of
happiness or heaven after death.
Christ made a distinction in prayer, and said to pray
silently, and for heaven here.
H e gave the power of prayer in healing the sick and in
all manner of doing which gave peace and happiness. A l­
ways asserting that the Father did the work, and He is
within. This naturally is a good example to follow, and
when the practices of it become effective, then the theory
is proven in works.
These practices are all simple, and belong to ordinary
usage.
The silence of prayer is going o ff a distance to be alone
and free from the crowd.
The prayer is to take up the simple things that have
annoyed during the day, or in the past, and, by putting
something good in their places, correct them.
It is to have love at the A ltar as a gift.
It is to believe God is present in the body, and to talk to
Him of the " I A M ” in every w ay possible— yet always
having in mind that the " I A M ” is the power.
42 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM l LESSONS
Call upon it, and make your body accept a peace that
"surpasseth human understanding,” because it is of that
which is not human, but above and beyond.
The basis of a child’s attitude of belief, and surely every­
one can have that, in that all are children, ask about that
not known.
N o one has a conception of "G od the Absolute,” but all
have of the "Presence,” that makes their body and mind
conceive and so things here.
So, everyone has the essence and also the evidence of
Divine help.
A ll of this is the God side, for be it remembered that
there are always two equations in the art of living, and
it is important to know one’s personal belief toward them.
Everyone wants to be on the happy, abundant and healthy
side.
For these three are essentials, and everyone thinks his
chosen path best suited to this end, no matter his physical,
mental, or social position.
But there must be a choosing of the equation, for that
is the road to be traveled. One is the Kingdom of God
here, and the other Kingdom after death.
There cannot be a difference in reality, for God and
His Kingdom must be here, to be after body death. So,
the equation is one of physical, or the spiritual.
The meaning difference is the physical— which makes
all efforts at success through work and conniving in ad­
vantages here, hoping to have a there.
The spiritual seeks God and His presence, and the abun­
dance of spiritual harmony here. Here— it will be there.
W hich do you choose?
In the body is sickness, poverty, distress, tragedies, sin
and death. A t most it is but of a few short years.
It is an unequal distribution of God’s abundance, and
without His Peace.
ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 43
It sometimes gathers the wealth of world, and maybe
to placate, distributes that which is not wanted. But, it
always leaves poverty, distress, and inequality.
Still, the struggle will go on forever, as long as the equa­
tion is of the body.
The " I A M ” is exactly opposite. It gives life abundant­
ly to everyone.
It is the opposite of selfishness, and greed, for it is love,
purity, generosity, benevolence, and kindness, complac­
ency, without regard to happiness, grief, virtue or vice.
It thus purifies the mind. Purified from the " I A M ,”
and so is not modified by sense feeling.
The other has sense modification, and is changed by
poverty, sickness, and health. It sometimes gathers but
always looses, for all are the same in death.
The laws of nature are self evident. A ll need food,
raiment, and shelter. A ll grow from childhood to age.
A ll die. A ll have interests in these natural and creative
things, but they all belong to the body life, and may not
be made paramount in the choosing of life’s equation.
This must not be, if the " I A M ” is to be realized— for
they are things of incidental mention, and not a dwelling
upon, or living in them.
Sickness is not talked of. Neither is poverty, or the dis­
tresses of the unequal distribution of wealth.
Individually these things are, but in going to the " I
A M ,” they are not, for the " I A M ” banishes all save God,
always realizing that within is everlasting abundance,
happiness, and health.
Therefore, it is not in being ignorant of these physical
things, but in not talking of them, and therefore, not
thinking or feeling them. There is God, and He is what
is meant in going within with a heart free and unafraid to
find God.
44 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
For, God in the " I A M ” banishes these things, and makes
way for the body and mind to free the path from them.
" I A M ” is of God, and cannot be in body weaknesses.
While religious narratives have failed to find specific
methods of going toward the " I A M ,” we, in our effort,
have and give the procedure in the following lessons.
These practices are, in fact, and truth the method.
They have been demonstrated over a period of forty years
in actual test.
It has been a long series of experiences covering every
phase of life, from sickness, poverty, worry, distress, and
the fears of death. A ll have been met by the harmony
of law.
N aturally, there is much training and study necessary—
much practice, yet, always the fundamentals are the same.
The basis is having the abiding faith of a child; to call
upon the " I A M ” in love, and, in every w ay which means
resurrection and life. To repeat the call, in every need,
and when at prayer in morning and evening.
Discipline the body and mind by not talking of hind­
rances— as a means of conversation.
Do not remember salacious things, or forget the moral
code, or the five great sins.
Love God, and your neighbor, and have abiding faith
that you are a messenger.
W ith this intent, go forth into T H E R O U G H H E W N
R O A D .
I AMI
C h a pter V
[L e sso n 2]
I A M I, P ILG R IM , P R O P H E T A N D M E
Believing; the first absolute essential.
Pray for belief, is the Master’s injunction, and the
promise of a m ighty philosophy. A something that al­
ways must be— in the unfolding of every great principle.
Belief in God is necessary to know God, and to under­
stand His laws. Belief in God being within— has also a
method of going to Him.
N ot that God depends upon belief, but man and all
finite things must. So, belief is the necessary beginning
of devotion to lead to and know the Soul of man, and
thus, become acquainted with the " I A M ,” T H A T IS
" I A M ,” in all things.
Belief is demonstrated by doing, and so doing as belief
urges, is the outward expression of faith.
It meets the curious world with action. Actions that
seem to have nothing as a basis; yet, do all things.
And this action that tests the inner urge, with outer
fact, is the test all must undergo— to have belief demon­
strable in works.
I have been accosted many, many times about belief.
People say, "Y o u have something the rest of us have not.
It makes you different for you help people— get them over
sickness, worry, trouble and distress. W hat is this thing?”
And when I answer, it is the "Spirit of God,” called the
" I A M ,” they turn away— not understanding.
[45]
46 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
Some, egotistically listening and wanting, say, " I be­
lieve, and if you will help me, I will tell it to the world.”
However, this is not the belief wanted, for egotists belief
is fickle and changes with desire. God belief is permanent.
Belief must be fixed in a hope— of something reliable at
all times, and so is not dependent upon personal favor
so much as the working of law. The working law is to
fix the idea. For when such belief is fixed as the basis of
creed, and the object of revelation, then it becomes "the
substance of things hoped for,” and the something that
forces the body and mind to find expression in actual
doing.
It brings conviction, the believed can be— and thus is
brought outward— from the hope that is within Faith.
It is asking, believing and presuming upon the faith of
belief— to care for another, with the statement, "Y o u
will be better now ,” is putting into words a conviction.
And this is the result of mantras. Mantras of accepted
faith.
Follow this by doing in faith— through healing is the
method of demonstrating within— there is really a some­
thing of God power, and therefore, the " I A M ” of ever­
lasting life is of immediate help because God is within
and realize through mantras or conviction of suggestions.
When I was young, the very thought of such help ap­
pealed to egotism. Reasoning— it seemed to be a help
through word of mouth— just the same as one would say
to another, " I will take care of you.” But that is not all
to faith— for the "w ord” means an unspoken "presence”
and the beginning of things. Make yourself believe this
by repeating " I am the life.”
St. John gives this version in his Gospel— and so this is
the belief that sinks in and makes itself felt. One has
this as a basis for something tried— and found not w ant­
ing. It is not spoken— nor is there indication of intona-
ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM 1 LESSONS 47
tion. Indeed it sinks within— as a conception o f some­
thing so sacred— no sound can fathom, or voice express,
yet is the essence of everything heard.
It springs through the inner consciousness, making the
outer being say, " I will take care of you,” and with the
saying, this something is passed from you to another—
and you know.
Does this outer promise create fear o f the outcome?
N o, there is no fear in the "w ord,” and therein is the d if­
ference between the ego and the " I A M .”
Belief in the "w ord,” and in the consciousness o f the
" I A M ” is the object of teaching. For the "w ord ” is
back of all human consciousness— to give a guiding power
of the Infinite to the body of man.
The expression of this guiding power is always harmony
and is health, happiness and prosperity. More than this, it
is a something that all can possess. When belief has been
demonstrated through processes of law, known as simple
practices of devotion, that changes belief into revelation,
conviction and realization— to ask believing, and have an
answer granted to prayer.
N ow this is a grand and glorious realization and means
a "silent Partner” in the affairs of life here and now. A
Partner that can carry everything to God in prayer and
being assured of help.
However, the secrets of teaching are in not forgetting
the little things— beginning with confidence and faith of
a child— to "ask believing.”
To ask of an inner hidden force; not seen with eyes or
touched with hands. It is a "presence” that makes itself
known through works. Moreover, a "presence” that be­
comes conscious through continued practice— in affirm ing
and calling upon it, as if present. The " I A M ” comes
through that way.
So belief is more than suggestion, for also it is a fixing
48 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
feeling of truth— always self evident, though not seen.
And always ready and willing to do when the body is sur­
rendered to its influence.
This is in body surrender, or negation, and is an accept­
ance of something about to be, before the fact.
To get this state of mind is to overcome the dread of the
unknown, manifested in doubt and fear. So these two
things have to be dwelled upon and conquered, by re­
peated surrenders. That is, in making the body negative.
The method is in the Silent prayer. The Master gave
this prayer as one of self-development, and different from
the wordy prayer.
It has four distinct mental requirements. First, it is
the gift at the Altar, which is love. A ll can have love,
and as much love as they will use.
Love is harmony of law and action, and the messenger
of all that is good and true.
It must be at the beginning of prayer.
The second requirement is, Resolve. That is, be sure of
a fixed intention— to get to the inner consciousness of
" I A M .” O f course this is not just a wish, but a something
of mind and body that grows as an actual realization—
by the acts of prayer, in eliminating mistakes, in the har­
mony of being, and in paying debts.
The third state, and inspiration, is Intent.
Intent is to stay at the practice of prayer, in following
the rules, and obeying law, until it is a habit of love and
devotion; and not an irksome task.
Intent means to clean up and be free from body re­
straints or desires. It is fixed as a habit by the fourth men­
tal requirement, in Anticipation.
This fourth state is of prime importance, for it gives to
body and mind something wonderful to work for__that
of having the " I A M ” become a consciousness within.
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 49
It is this " I A M ” consciousness all must have to be en­
rolled as a child of God.
W ith these four mental requirements, are four other
mental practices, always necessary and always fulfilling.
They are Contemplation— that means the memory
habit, of going over in the Silence with all the faults that
have accumulated in life, and of which conscience does not
endorse. These habits and the incidents causing them, are
studied; and always something good put in the place of
evil.
Meditation is in looking over the work of contempla­
tion, and in fitting the new to the old in thought.
It is in being prepared in practice to use thought ma­
terial to fit in and create a spiritual understanding. This
naturally, at first, is in meditating upon the universe and
God as law.
It takes up law and self evident truths, and fixes them
as God attributes, and as such, a part of the life of man.
Such meditation fixes mental attitude into a conviction,
that within is a mighty something, beyond the limitations
of the body, in that it is at one and a part of Immortality.
A something within, that in fact, as well as truth, is
immortal. Then to bring it about and abroad, is to have
realization.
Realization is that time in the life of each when known
within is God— and God can and will talk and walk with
man when the outer way has been made clear.
A tremendous possibility to every sojourner on life’s
pathway. Something worth working for; and moreover,
something all have within their grasp when they hear the
"W ord” and do it.
There must be no illusions in the practices; no ideas of
grandeur or greatness— just a following of law to be
conscious of the " I A M .” So no one need expect to do
50 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS
the impossible, or to have especial body and mind privil­
eges.
It is not a give-me attitude, but one o f law in which
there is a practical w ay, to become one with God, and
know the power of the "In effable word” .
It is always used in His service and to correct human
ills.
It gives happiness and health; and also the abundance
of life.
That is— these things— are a part of law and the privil­
ege of every one to have all they need; no more or less.
And also to know this is so.
Thus prayer assumes a practice o f maintaining belief,
peace, faith and consciousness o f " I A M .”
But to have prayer practical, and in attune with physi­
cal procedure, there is the necessity of knowing outward
practices that lead to subjection of the reasoning principles
and their use in ordinary life.
And, as the child is made to listen, hear and follow
instruction from simple pronouncing of words to acts of
the body, the same process is in Spiritual training. And
this is followed in mental and physical actions that are
acceptable. Acceptable because of the way and law of
growth in the building of ideas.
First always, there is listening and imitation. Listening
to inform ation; and imitating— to know and understand
inwardly.
The quicker this acceptation the brighter the child.
N ow this goes on until the Psychology of life becomes
the most important of all studies. (That is the action of
Psychology).
For action is all that most people think of the process
of thinking.
It gives the way of getting and holding ideas, and this
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS 51
reaches to a conception of duality; or two distinct sources
of information.
One m ay be called reflective, and the other cognition
of a personal and present revelation.
The first, indicates a distinctive attitude of thought re­
ception, through putting the body at rest as far as personal
sensation is to live in, and ponder upon problems, either
past or present.
This, in reality, is a state of meditative negation, and so
is the same as the processes of prayer.
And if it works in solving mental problems, then also
it will work in uncovering hidden and latent forces of
body and mind.
It is in acts of forbearance the body and mind are pre­
pared for the mightier things of life.
Forbearance is a state of Probation, and accepted as
such, as a strict discipline that prepares the body and mind
for the weightier things of the Soul.
It means to withstand indulgence in body desire— or in
mental aptitudes— that make the body paramount. For
over indulgence— in sense life— carries the mind and heart
away from the equlibrium of Soul.
It is said, "N o one can serve two Masters,” for then
there is no harmony in direction— and one surely leads in
the opposite direction from the other. So, to overcome
a natural desire to follow instinct without restraint— that
surely leads to sickness, sin and death; there is set up in the
mind a code of resistence that will guide the body into
harmony of law.
Every instinct of the body is the basis of law— but in
all body functions law is an overplus. That is, one has
more impulse to do than is required of any principle in
life giving energy. It is this impulse of desire to over
indulge in satiation that depletes the body.
Over-indulgence is the cause of all the woes of the
52 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
world. This, and the fact that the body o f man decays.
So, Forbearance means to hold to practices of restraint,
until desire, impulse is controlled by thought. Thus is
given— what is right and wrong.
The crux of right and wrong is in the perpetuation of
the specie, or the sex law. It has a tremendous, all con­
suming power; and, alike to both man and woman. This
urge is not always right— for it is vitality in right use—
and death in abuse.
Indulgence is the creation of Sin— and the basis of the
five cardinal sins, i.e., Murder, Stealing, Covetousness,
Lying and Immorality. And this latter is the basis of sex
abuse.
Forbearance is in practices— to control the sex urge—
and to use its force creatively in the active principle of
making the body clean; that it may be a fit place for the
" I A M .”
O f course the " I A M ” is not known before control, and
it is for this privilege of happiness, health and abundance
the covenant is enereed in, "Believing” through restraint,
it will come abroad.
"Believing,” and the testimony of others who have
traveled the road, is the reason for forbearance.
And, in as much as nature, in creative relationship with
everything, from the seed producing abundantly, accord­
ing to the sunlight of energy; so the sex life must have
the sunlight of cultivated control.
Nature prepares the way by having a cleansing time
for woman and a rut for men. The one dependent upon
the other for equilbrium, and both having an outlet for
super-desire, in work. The life itself, can and should be
turned into activity of thought and useful occupation,
and then the creative force or gentilia is turned into active
mental creation.
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS S3
Association and vitality are both used for the purpose
of making the body fit— by active practices of doing in
the field best created— and equipped for life’s work. So
control is in practices— that bring the mind thought in
control of body impulse— and with it (when tru e), is a
sensation of all the crimes of perversion.
Again, Forbearance is in religious observance— that gives
hope of a future life. In this philosophy a future state
is brought to the "presence,” and so religious observance
is in restraints— denial— and in breath, intent, contem­
plation and meditation. A ll practiced for the purpose of
preparing the mind and body to receive the greater bless­
ings.
Preparatory to all these is "Brain Blanking” — which is
a practice of thought elimination.
Thoughts that are used in daily conversation and are
the means of understanding incidents, are usually not last­
ing but expedient. These often become intense— in inter­
ests of the unsavory or sensational— that are of harm when
carried as permanent communication.
For the cure— or control— of such is "Brain Blanking.”
So that the mind being free from burden carrying thought
— will be able to function constructively.
Brain blanking is the basis of hypnotic procedure— and
also the beginning of Concentration. When practiced—
there is formed the habit of constructive thinking.
Constructive thinking— is the w ay to fix thought— to
be pure in a love— that is free from doubt and fear.
It is the way of asking "Believing” — and has an accept­
able answer.
The practice is in going o ff a distance to be alone— and
free from the much speaking.
It is Silence, breaking down the egotism of the body—
in the conscious believing of God’s presence.
It is the power of repeating— the " I A M I” and after a
54 ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
time— having it so fixed— belief changes into realization.
This part has love as a gift at the A ltar. A love of peace
and good will to all men.
Love is always expressed according to individual growth,
and while it can be perfect, is modified by desire, never-
the-less is a Divine messenger to level emotion while ask­
ing-believing.
It has anticipation, or a longing to know— so all have
that anticipation— that makes a visit of the " I A M ” some­
thing hoped for in ecstasy.
Love has with it intent. Intent is the wish or fixed
resolve— and so intent also includes contemplation.
Contemplation is in going over the acts of the past— to
find the mistakes on life’s pathway. Especially when this
path is full of fear and doubt, about the presence and pow­
er of the " I A M ” to do and help in life problems here and
now.
Contemplation is in forbearance— of those things that
have hindered— by putting good in their place. It
also is in solving the human equation— so that there can
be meditation upon God, and His "Presence” within,
coming abroad.
The "Presence” is not seen, nor is God seen. "F or the
law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by
Jesus Christ. N o man hath seen God at any time,” but
His "Presence” can be— and is known.
It is not seen— or felt by others— and so is in the nature
of revelation. A something that has to be— to fit into the
universe— as a necessary connection between the Infinite
and the finite.
Perception of this truth is through contemplation enter­
ing into meditation. So following contemplation is medi­
tation and meditation is a dreaming state— that takes in
the power and presence of God as a human associate— and
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 55
into which the human must go for law, truth, grace and
heaven.
Meditation is in fact devotion to the Supreme Soul.
It gives a devotional nature, and one readily discern-
able— and is that benignity that gives generosity, kindli­
ness, friendliness and a willingness to serve.
These are in fact the practices the disciple must follow
— in system and detail— to arrive at a state of being
worthy of the Master power— called the " I A M .”
Then is the privilege of asking believing, and having an
answer returned. Even as the Father knows what is
wanted even before the asking— and grants the request.
The practices of believing are simple— so simple a child
can understand— and do. And while they are not prayer
in themselves, are the basis of correct prayer.
They are also Probationary in the Great White Broth-
hood— and constitute the inititatory rites of the disciple—
dedicating his spirit to God— who gave it; and his body to
mankind in giving the way, law and truth.
The degrees in Probation are seven in number and con­
stitute a system of body control. First of the body funda­
mentals in desire— and second in the thought realm of
thinking right.
The degrees of body control are in restraints herein
given.
They are also in removing restraints— or hinderances—
to mental freedom— in practices to know God.
These are Soul hinderances now limiting religion to
Heaven after death and classifying society into caste and
class.
The remedy is in a change of thought— making heaven
here and now— and mankind a brotherhood without caste
or class.
56 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
Individually each person has the privilege o f entering
into the Kingdom of God.
There is no special privilege, just a following o f route
and rule. The result of which will be in realization that
everyone make their own heaven— and every other state
in which they may live.
Then why not the right state of mind— the right action
of the body— to make this possible.
The practices are first in control of functional things,
and the control of mind thought, in directed effort that
always starts within, but from the body environment, and
makes of life exactly what the ideal is in permanency.
Mankind fits in where he allows himself to fall or rise
to— and to no other place.
The Fealy books give a broader understanding of theme.
Both of the Pilgrim Prophet development and the I-A M -
I herein.
I AMI
C h a pter V I
[L e sso n 3]
T H E G R E A T W H IT E B R O T H E R H O O D
C A T H E C H IS M
To be memorized.
A t the lodge there were certain principles the Disciples
had to memorize and were in the nature of questions and
answers. So this is the recording of the dialogue covering
almost three years. They are given with hope.
Question. "W hat have you come here to do?”
Answer. "T o learn of the Masters the w ay to and
knowledge of the great " I A M ” , and to so improve myself
in body and Soul that I can be one— in truth and fact—
as I am now in theory.”
Ones. "Then you are an 'I A M I,’ we presume?”
Am. " I am so taken and accepted by brothers and
fellows.”
Ques. "H o w may we know you to be an 'I A M ’ ?”
Ans. "B y certain practices and doings— by which one
brother or fellow m ay know another in the dark as well
as the light.”
Ques. "W hat are these practices— and doings?”
Am. "H ealing the sick, straightening out crooked
places, com forting the broken-hearted— and teaching an
acceptable doctrine.”
Ques. "B y what other means can we know you?”
Ans. "B y m y answer and living the laws you are about
to propound to me.”
Ques. "W hat is the first of these laws?”
[57]
58 ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS
Ans. "T o follow and obey.”
Ques. "Follow and obey w hat?”
Ans. "Follow and obey the teaching of the teachers
and to demonstrate by taking them to the w orld.”
Ques. "W hat must you obey w ith?”
Ans. "W ith the body and mind.”
Qties. "W hat is there besides the mind and body, all
men depend upon, but few know?”
Ans. "The hidden 'something’ called the 'ineffable
word’ that is used by all people— whether knowing it or
not— when in despair, or in fear, or when death is near.
"It is used when the human part is giving up and man
has no other means of hope.
"It is the something within— that comes abroad in emer­
gency, trial or despair.
"It is the something that Christ refers to as the Supreme,
in that one has to lay their body down to find it.
"It is called the 'I A M ’ within.”
Ques. "W hat have you that will uncover the principle,
and make the 'I A M ’ come abroad in every day activities?”
Ans. " I have certain practices of doing— that are a
part of truth— and grace, uncovering law, that used in
faith— prove the essence of it— in bringing the inner
conscience in practical work. Such as healing, giving
comfort to the broken-hearted and straightening out the
crooked places.”
Ques. "Then we presume you have experience in ap­
plying laws of the 'I A M ,’ to disordered human conditions.
W hat is always essential?”
Ans. "T o believe and to ask believing.”
Ques. "H ow is the disciple prepared to ask believing?”
Ans. "The first part is to use the objective reasoning—
to practice stilling thought of no moment— save as inci­
dent to work or observation.”
"Still all thought so there will be a concentration upon
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 59
healing and upon the faith of the 'I A M ’.”
"Thus floating thought is dissipated by the one idea of
'I A M ’ coming through.”
Ques. "W hat is the process of controlling floating
thought?”
Ans. " It is called Brain blanking; and is a revery
where the dream state takes possession of the active, and
this goes into negation— more or less— like that which
proceeds sleep.”
"It is the same, save at the end— where sleep is about to
insue— there is a snapping out of it— and into a condition
with the 'I A M ’.”
Ones. "W hat are the spiritual effects o f practice?”
Arts. "A t the beginning it is a fixing of the 'I A M ’—
within-in— and a dependence upon it to do the w ork.”
"There ensues physical action according to training—
to put into physical effect God’s laws of subconscious­
ness— breathing, laying on of hands, and speaking the
word.”
"O ne or all— without regard to reason— or what others
may think. In fact and truth— it is an expression of God
principles.”
Ques. "W hat are God principles outwardly expressed?”
Ans. "T h ey are certain acts— and practices— always
the same and always active.”
"First in being benevolent and kind, depending upon
an inner conscience. A ll of which is a pleasing attitude,
as love is pleasing.”
"It is a kindly feeling without egotism or the feeling of
favor.”
Ques. "W hat are the body requirements?”
Ans. " It must be receptive— to the God principle—•
within— and allow the 'I A M ’ to have free expression.”
"Indeed the attitude is one— the same as God being
present. For always it is 'The Father within me that
60 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM 1 LESSONS
doeth the work’.”
Ques. "Does the individual know the presence of God,
and does he see H im ?”
Ans. "H e knows the feeling of God presence— but
never sees God.”
"God is manifested through works. Manifested in serv­
ice to others— as well as personally.”
"T o others the work is an evidence, because of the
quick, good, or relief to physical conditions, and thus is
given as 'the fruit of the tree’.”
"Personally it is practices of devotion— that gives the
power in help to others. This also gives holiness.”
Oues. "W hat is meant by holiness?”
Ans. " A state of mind— in which the body does in
practice— that which the heart dictates— without regard
to reward.”
Ques. "Does the 'I A M ’ always come abroad in w ork?”
Ans. "N o, not always. N ot in any case— wherein there
is curiosity or doubt.”
"It requires the sureness of asking, 'believing,’ and
while this is sometimes not apparent— in the beginning
of relief to patients— they are all in a state of receptivity.
Later, all must have belief to get relief.”
Ques. "H ow is the difference in feeling noted?”
Ans. "W hen the feeling of faith is real— there is also
a feeling of 'The presence,’ and this becomes the active
principle of the latent and hidden.”
Ques. "W hat are the acceptances— of the latent and
hidden?”
Ans. "The principles of the Silent prayer— with love
as the offering— at the A ltar.”
Then the following the rules of prayer, from resolve
to asking, with nothing lacking in faith.”
Ques. "Is this practice practical in incidents, or in the
days w ork?”
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM 1 LESSONS 61
Ans. "Yes, because the principle of it, is instant. This
is called 'Clicking in’ and while instant is a distinct change
in personality.”
"A change, because depending upon God for direction
instead of reasoning.”
"It is the means of bringing the 'presence’ to the aid of
others.”
Ques. "H o w is this process aided?”
Ans. "B y knowing all the physical laws necessary to
outward understanding— of the problems solved.”
"In treating diseases; it is in knowing Symptom ology,
Physiology, Suggestive Therapeudics, Anatom y, Breath,
Posture, Concentration, Contemplation, Meditation and
the way of realizing powers. A ll of which are objective
and within the reading reach o f everyone.”
"It is never a foolish confidence— and never a just be­
lieve. H owever there is a feeling of know before the fact
— that is alike to the spirit breaking through.”
Ques. "W hat has the silence of the Silent prayer to do
to create the state of God Presence?”
Ans. "It has to have love— to contemplate its own
weaknesses of body and mind— to correct faults, and to
adjust debts.”
"It must surrender the body from the objective thinking
and be supreme— in its devotion to the Soul.”
"It must accept the inner 'I A M ’ and this is determined
by a constant affirm ation of 'I A M T H E R E S U R R E C ­
T IO N A N D T H E L IF E ’ and determined restrictions of
the body— in egotistic weaknesses.”
Ques. "W hat is meant by restrictions?”
Ans. "These are in control of the eight hinderances—
of growth, called laziness, carelessness, doubt, fear, sick­
ness, languor, abdiction to habits of senses and erroneous
perception.”
62 ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
"These naturally give inability to attain any state of
concentration, called clear thinking.
Ques. "C an these be overcome?”
Ans. "Yes, by resolve, and getting up and doing—
overcoming habits of sense by putting something good in
their place.”
"B y having fixed habits of study— and by going toward
fears and doubts, while always going away from tempta­
tion.”
Ques. "A re there other things to hinder in understand­
ing the T A M ’ ?”
Ans. "Yes, but these are the most serious, o f which is
the Ego and the Ignorance of man, regarding the universe
as a whole, and man’s relation to it singly and personally.”
"Ignorance is in the assumption that the non-eternal,
the impure and evil— and that which is not Soul are sever­
ally Soul, eternal pure and good.”
"Indeed is a worship of outside things, while the medita­
tive and that within, is left unrevealed because o f a lack
in practices— that will uncover the 'I A M ’ is disbelieved.”
Ques. "H ow does the Brotherhood help in overcoming
hinderances?”
Ans. "The brotherhood helps by putting all disciples
upon Probation, called Probationary degrees, in which the
disciple is required to practice forms of developed action
in order to create understanding of hidden and latent
forces, and the way the 'I A M ’ is brought forth as a
'presence’ here.”
Ques. "W hat is Probationary degrees?”
Ans. "T hey are degrees of restraint, of purging the
body of sins or habits; and of beliefs that must be prac­
ticed before there is realization.”
"T h at is, the Initiate— must covenent to believe in God,
and to ask believing.”
"H e must pray alone and in Silence.”
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 63
"H e must accept universal brotherhood as a truism
and practice kindness, generosity and benevolence.”
"H e must agree to practice posture, and subconscious
practices, to induce a change in personality. A nd use the
force thus generated, for the good of all contacted.”
"H e must agree to study and develop his power in the
direction best suited to his grow th.”
Ques. "Then the Brotherhood is a study o f develop­
ment— as well as a practical one?”
Am. "Yes, the study in addition to the natural culture
of vocation, is one of Religious development, wherein
Spiritual laws are unfolded— and practiced in the Silence
of prayer.”
Ques. "W hat is meant by unfolding and practice?”
Am. "T he meaning is— that belief is taken into Silence
of prayer, and there desire is developed to accept the 'I
A M ’ as a living prayer— and practice; and to put the be­
lief into every day life.”
"T hat is, the 'I A M ’ is always present when the indi­
vidual is right and always active.”
Ques. "H o w is the brotherhood a help in this practice?”
Ans. "B y progressive development in fixing practices,
and in understanding laws. Above all in realizing the im ­
portance of Following and Obeying.”
"T o follow and obey are the commands o f the brother­
hood and the measure of following is feality to them.”
" I f there is failure in following— then there is no de­
velopment, until the disciple comes back single and alone.”
Ques. "W hat is meant by single and alone?”
Ans. " It is meant the disciple prays without other’s
help.”
" It is the same as borning and dying. The progressive
part is silent and alone.”
Ques. "Through how many degrees is Probation prac­
ticed. Through all of them, or only a few ?”
64 ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
Ans. “ Through all of them, though necessary in the
first fourteen, in which practice is enjoined.”
"The Disciple goes from one to another degree as suit­
able progress is evidenced, and thus carries Probation into
all.”
Ques. "H ow long is the given rule for overcoming the
body desire?”
Ans. "St. John gives the first part as forty-tw o months
and the second part as twelve hundred and ninety-eight
days. The latter period being given in days because of
higher vibration and greater temptation.”
"This is the given time of overcoming desire.”
"T o the hotly impetuous it is sooner, and to the indolent
never at all.”
"The degrees are those of body resistance— seven in
number and those of mind discipline— seven in number.”
"T hey belong to the four planes, because the body and
mind go with the Soul throughout life.”
"The planes of thought, however, are divided into four,
named the physical, mental, soul and spiritual.”
"It is the blending of them that is the object of study,
and especially to bring the source of Knowledge from the
Soul and Spirit, instead of allowing the speculative and
changeable to warp or change thought.”
There are degrees within the planes giving initiation
into the degrees of Probation, Discipleship, Apostolicship
and Mastership.
The first two are confirmed by study, the third by lay­
ing on of hands, and the fourth through Devotion to the
Supreme Soul.
It is a straight and narrow path, but has the guidance
of the " I A M ” all the way, in every trial, and in all of
the problems of life.
These initiatory interrogations, are here given to illus­
trate the instruction and are a continuance of them.
I AM I
C h a pter V II
[L e sso n 4]
T H E SU B C O N SC IO U S IS E N T E R E D T H R O U G H
S IL E N T P R A Y E R
The Silent prayer is the means of getting close to God.
It is the ecstasy of being at one with the silent partner.
It is an affirm ation of His presence— and alike to call­
ing, always calling on the " I A M ” for help.
It brings the Love gift to the A ltar. A gift that is in
everything wanted, and leaves it there as a token of what
is to be.
A fter Love is a resolve to make the body and mind
clean, to forego and forget the disagreeable; to correct
mistakes, and then when free— from disturbing influences
— ask believing of the " I A M ,” as a creative power— to
do all asked and more.
Calling the " I A M ” is saying to yourself, I am the life,
and the resurrection.
M y " I A M ” is in me, and is also God, and so by laying
down m y body I can connect with and be a part o f God
in my daily life.
It is a power coming abroad as something real in peace,
love, law, light, day and night.
It gives to m y body power to do and makes me a ser­
vant in the home of God.
" I A M ” is health and happiness, with prosperity making
the body work— for the best within.
It ask always for love to be present at the A ltar; and my
body a gift to the All.
[6 5 ]
66 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS
I am asking believing, free and unafraid. I am asking
in the silence, and in holding a fixed thought of the I
A M .”
It is thus the idea of God is fastened in objective con­
sciousness.
The practical outer experience— is in hynotism prac­
ticed upon another— showing the power of suggestion to
induce sleep and a changed personality. O f course this
is not a continuous practice, no more than the studies of
childhood are persisted upon.
It is but a start and way of law— showing the principle
of human change.
Some times, this is so remarkable in change that it is in­
stant; when alone in the Silence.
Then having experienced the change, there is no ne­
cessity of further demonstration save as a developing
power.
Thus the Silence fixes the idea of God within the heart
and makes Divine power usuable through the principle
of love, called peace, and Faith.
It becomes a conscious power— through exercise in be­
lieving while doing— and thus God comes abroad.
He comes abroad because of Silent meditation, of fix ­
ing His power and as the " I A M ” of the body life.
N ot as the all God, or the universal, but as the personal,
and " I A M ” of the infinite.
This idea must be fixed by repeated silences. Silences
going through life, and a part of life the same as eating,
sleeping, breathing and day and night.
It is, and that is all— and there is no more.
Most of mankind think this fixing of thought a d iffi­
cult requirement, and it would be if it were not for the
fact life is always— and the habits of thought can be fixed
by doing.
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 6 7
Then it is the same as a vocation, or trade, made easy by
constantly doing the things necessary to create.
In this it is like a vocation, in that it has hours to do. A
positive time in the morning, when all the world is awake,
and a negative one in the evening, when the days work is
done.
Then a Silent time of thanks, and of meditation for the
day that has gone.
A going over of the mistakes, and an asking for the " I
A M ” to come abroad and do.
The same thing is in the m orning; only then the "I
A M ” is invoked; it is in effort all through the day. And
thus in everything done is a Silent partner— never asking
or intruding— but always doing.
It is a feeling of a closer power within, always dwelling
upon the demonstrable, or that time when the bars of
separation are down— and man can know.
It is belief, and a fixed belief, coming from prayer—
and the laws of restraint.
It is asking believing to know ones own Soul.
It is so wonderful it is thrilling; and a something that
makes the individual carry on— even though there is not
perceptive knowledge. For always— there is that some­
thing that is an evidence of doing better.
In going into the Silence, "Brain Blanking” becomes a
habit, as does also the love gift at the Altar. It is as if the
worries of the world are laid down and in their stead, is
a getting ready for a glorious visit with God— and His
messenger the " I A M .”
So in this program there is nothing left out from the gift
at the A ltar to the "A sking believing.”
N aturally physical practices are of importance, for it
is the body that is to be made fit, and so in practice there
is a card system— to develop— the practice o f "Brain
Blanking.”
68 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
This system holds the focusing eye, and with it the five
senses in leash, and is the physical part of training in the
"Silence.”
This plan is given in the concentration card system
and has been developed so that it takes in Brain Blanking,
Concentration, Color, Breath, Vibration and Vision.
W ith brain blanking, all the senses are taken into the
Silences, and there is the slow revery that often ends in
sleep; yet never-the-less is the method of finding the " I
A M .”
N ot at once, for as an accumulative practice comes
more and more a light and understanding— of the invisi­
ble "Presence” that does all things— "in His name” .
So it is to have a fixed resolve— to go on in practice,
and to believe in prayer giving results— when these simple
practices are enjoined.
The gift at the Altar, and the feeling of the "Ineffable
word”— gives intention— because of anticipation. And
these are followed naturally the other practices in prayer.
W ith love is always anticipation, and so also intention
in finding the w ay; and this is through contemplation
and meditation, leading to conviction and the dawn of
realization. Thus the " I A M ” is made an active principle
of God residence— instead of passive.
The " I A M ” is something giving greater force to the
gifts already possessed.
Still the " I A M ” is a part of infinite life and is before,
as well as after the gifts of body efficiency.
It comes abroad because of belief, believing it true, and
comes by oft repeated mantra, and thus is the wonderful
something to the poor as well as the rich— and to the un­
cultured as well as the cultured.
It comes by repeating belief— and is the substance of
things hoped for, to do the things unseen, but visioned.
Always it is anticipatory, and a happy state of mind—
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 69
backed by intention; and so is the hidden reserve power
that comes abroad— through faith— to do master things.
And while tested in little things, these uncover the
law, and thus all the outer practices become factors in
a greater development.
Love, Resolve, Anticipation, Contemplation, M edita­
tion, Breath, Posture, Studies of Devotion, and of Con­
centration, become adjuncts— that bolster and fit the " I
A M ” to greater work.
These studies are not the " I A M ,” but when used in
connection, serve to culture the body and mind to great­
er and greater efficiency.
The practice is always the same. It begins with "ask­
ing believing.” Believing until evidence comes abroad
through measured practice. So do, and demonstrate are
practices. Do, and be silent, Do and dare, D o and will,
Do and be patient and Do and wait— are all principles
in bringing " I A M ” abroad in actual work.
Thus Prayer is rote and sequence— going from one
practice to another— and all is for the purpose for the
" I A M ” to come abroad.
The Consciousness is in belief— that is Faith, and faith
in doing. So it is practical and practiced in the daily
tasks of all believing.
This belief makes of life a wonderful anticipation, of
knowing a close association— that has no flaw in it; for
it is within and the God part.
O f course the "Kingdom of God” is limited to the
conception the individual has, for thought only acts w ith­
in the prescribed field of individual faith.
N o one can do— or have more of God— in their life,
than they have made room for, and so individually the
God principle is prescribed to environed thought.
(I first thought I could only heal, but later found this
was m y environed limitation and not God’s ) .
70 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS
Strange as this may seem at first, it is logical, for surely
man can only percieve— and know within the limits of
personal understanding.
Things may happen outside, but the know will be
lacking. So Limitations must be removed— to have the
" I A M ” unlimited.
The principle starts with doing something obvious;
and so the Master said, "G o heal the Sick.”
Man needs this concreteness— to build faith upon— and
when the Sick respond to the “ I A M ,” there is this evi­
dence— giving faith.
Yet with Faith is also the ego, that is traveling with
Faith as the body, and so there is a constant fight be­
tween I did it, and " I A M .”
One is body, and the other faith. There must be an
understanding of the relative place of each. For one
belongs to the earth, and the other to the spirit.
Both have a place in life, and both use the principles and
practices that are conducive to happiness.
Both use love. Love is the great commandment. It is
always the same and means to give. But physically it
also is possessive and when giving, is often warped by a
feeling of no appreciation. W ith the God side, there is no
such feeling.
In love there is this division in thought, and one that
determines the " I A M ,” in the art of doing. For both
loves give, the difference being in the reflex. The Spirit­
ual is all used up, and there is no more, in every effort.
The Physical has the residue of wanting thanks, and being
disappointed in not receiving.
So, practice love in the silent periods. Practice by see­
ing life in everything and love without strings tied, bind­
ing to the flesh. So it is as creation, that needs nothing
back, because all is used.
Then take up the love received and practice it in work.
Do without price attachment, or desire for return.
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 71
Remember that is the other side of the equation, and
that a just and m asterful " I A M ,” make the measure
pressed down and heaping over, returning.
Here again is a wonderful something that banishes the
poverty of the world, for when one is free from desire, the
wish for things, or the necessity of them, brings them to
their door. For always the answer to love’s practice is
"pressed down and heaping over” .
Necessarily this has to be proven, to know its truth,
and so at the very beginning, there is a clash with the
egotistic that calls for preservation through taking.
Ninety per cent of all the people of the earth are su ffer­
ing and in poverty through this method, while there are
none that know poverty through the other.
It is the "c ru x ” or center feeling, to be free from desire
and egotism. Then is the attitude of no hurt, to others,
and no hurt from them.
It is a practice of being receptive, attentive, and antici­
pating.
It is giving, nothing lacking, and having a return ac­
cording to God’s method.
Necessarily, this love of God, is the direct w ay to the
subsconscious. So every one must cultivate love, and be
free and unafraid. Free from desire and fear; free from
egotisms and emotions. Free as the air is free, as law and
all self-evident things are free. Make love this way, and
hold to the thought, while fixing the principle.
A ll people have egotistic love and most, some of the
Divine love. Still love must be cultivated in its purity
to be a master power of the " I A M ” ; in the principle of
having God as a silent partner, and in all affairs of the
individual here and now.
It can be so, for all Masters have blazed the trail, and
their work speaks loud. None have failed in love and
none have failed in "M ighty works” .
72 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS
It is so simple a child can understand, and all children
do understand.
It is just love’s love, with nothing attached.
It is simple, so simplicity is a law.
The fate of every life depends upon simple things, and
so love is alike to all the other simple things, that sustain,
maintain and reveal. Do not forget to cultivate love free
and unafraid.
N ow let’s "C lick in,” that is changing from the outside
to an inner conception of things.
It is accomplished by silence, a moment’s silence, any­
where, or any time after the practice has been fixed by
prayers of Silence.
It is like some one saying: "Listen !” And you stand
or sit still and listen.
You see there is a cessation of thought and a change.
That is what is meant by "clicking in” . And is a wonder­
ful something to do in Silence, or when listening for the
" I A M ” to come through, and help in something here and
now.
"Clicking in” is the beginning of Suggestion.
Suggestion is going toward God, is the same as fasten­
ing thought outwardly.
It always starts by fixing, and that is the "C licking in”
process. And then the thought is repeated; and repeated,
until the subconscious becomes an actual belief, and then
fact. So the plan is dwelling upon God, and His pres­
ence within; until the conviction of H im is manifest in
works outwardly.
Suggestion is in repeating the "Presence” formula, in
as many ways as possible, without loosing the idea.
It is in being prepared by resolve, contemplation, and
meditation, until revelation makes conviction sure.
There is nothing lacking in the state, and is that some­
thing, that changes life from a dependence upon the body,
to a dependence upon the everlasting. The longer dwelled
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 73
upon, the surer, and also, the greater the power.
It is not idle or ignorant, but thrives with culture. For
it takes the same time, or longer, to fix an abstract prin­
ciple, as it does to master problems in thoughts o f an edu­
cational nature. So it is not a question of instant under­
standing, but of continuous study, from day to day, and
year after year.
A ll suggestion has its fulfillm ent, in conviction, just
the same as it is in hynopsis, when a command changes
personality. This very H ypnotic procedure is of worth
for that reason.
It starts with willingness, gazes upon a card, and then
falls alseep, through suggestive command.
It is all a process of progressive suggestion, and needs
no explanation here, save the advice, to be fam iliar with
the process.
These practices in hypnosis are found in any standard
hypnotic book, and so are available.
Get one and practice the fundamentals, until there is
fam iliarity enough to know how to apply an outer study,
to auto-suggestion, and you are on the road.
H ypnotic suggestion will not demonstrate the Soul,
unless attention and anticipation is directed toward the
Soul. Then the procedure becomes a direction, with re­
sultant experience. The Soul becoming free, through this
influence, gives as nothing else, the relation of the body
to God.
Also demonstration in hypnosis proves the limitation
of the individual to their own cultural radius. That is,
under its influence, the sensitive always stays within the
actual knowledge or belief, of the individual.
O f course the "pure in heart see God” ; but the pure
in heart are limited to exalted and cultured Saints that
live above the law.
Because the cultured have a greater radius of thought
activity, and a basis by which the " I A M ” can work,
74 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS
this suggests, that knowledge of God is limited by ignor­
ance. And it is. "A n d ignorance is the mother of all
*
sin.
Thus again limitation must be overcome by body free­
dom from sin.
God has given the universe without limit, and man the
right to know.
It is ignorance that keeps the Soul bound and man
confined to the limitation of the body.
Ignorance of sublime association, in the " I A M ” . For
this wonderful power is always at the very door of con­
sciousness, and always ready to come forth doing, when
there is suitable provision made by the body, for a Holy
guest.
God gives residence to this " I A M .” It is up to man
to choose his equation. He can live in the body and die
with it, or change allegiance to the power that is eternal.
Then he can use this power to cure "all manner of sick­
nesses and diseases” .
It would be foolish to limit the power, for limitations
are removed by the simple principle of abiding faith.
A faith that the "presence” within will come forth when
prayer is invoked. That is, the reason for the great and
simple prayer of the "Silence” .
The Silence is the place of resolve, and placing violations
of the law upon Probation.
A probation that a kind and considerate Judge places
upon a first offender; saying, "Report your conduct for
the next few months, until we are sure of your reform .”
That is probation, only this probation is most severe, and
the reporting is every prayer period. Every day until al­
legiance is fixed upon the "I A M ” within, as the messenger
of God, in all the affairs of life.
It is fixed by suggestion and regulated by rule. The
rule is always believing, and depending upon the same
Divine principle; therefore is the repeating, in the Silence,
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS 75
the powers of the " I A M ” , and then when doing, "click ­
ing in” , as if this "Presence” stood close beside, with all
power. Then it can be said, "A ll things respond to T h y
name.”
For there is no limit to the subconscious as a God power.
Its limits are always physical, and because of a lack in
faith or discrimination. These latter being personal and
body attributes.
Limitations of body and imaginations of it, into believ­
ing the impossible, are subject to correction and fitting
into law. So there follows expanding powers, because as
experience through trial, always uncover law, and under­
standing of how the spirit operates.
It operates to give peace and power.
Have you ever heard of an invisible personality, that in
the silence of prayer, steals upon you giving peace and
power? I have.
Have you ever had some one ask, believing, for a solu­
tion of some vexing, seemingly hopeless problem to be
solved, and then have the solution? I have.
H ave you ever had the sick turn to you at the hour of
death, asking believing for light, and then see their face
light up with the joy of eternity? I have.
H ave you ever had the troubled and broken come to
you asking believing. Then see their trouble dissipate and
they carry away a peace they had never known before?
I have.
Have you had the sick, the lame, the halt, the bind,
and those sorely in need come asking believing, and get
relief? I have.
So I am testifying of what I have seen, felt and known
when the " I A M ” comes through.
It is the same " I A M ” with every one. For surely God
plays no favorites.
It is the " I A M ” that comes through when the ego is
7 6 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
laid down; and this is the privilege of every one, to do ac­
cording to worth.
It does not depend upon race, color or strata in a race,
but does depend upon a willingness to surrender to God,
as Master, and the " I A M ” as His servant.
O f course the practice is law, so surely there cannot be
mistake in practice.
It starts with the body and functions in thought until
desire rests upon the A ltar of eternity.
Then when it comes through, there is nothing like it,
in all the other emotional sensations; for it is a happiness
without ecstasy, and a peace without desire of reward.
It seems to be using all the substance of God up, and
there is no more, for it is giving, giving all the time.
So there is a difference between the selfish egotisms of
the earth, and the mighty power of the " I A M ” .
It is an indwelling spirit, that gives. It is the differ­
ences between a universal "Presence” and a desire that
fails. A difference between the temporary and the ever­
lasting.
This difference you must know.
I AM I
C h a pter V III
[L e sso n 5]
T H E G R E A T W H IT E B R O T H E R H O O D
C A T E C H IS M
Question. "W hat is Prayer?”
Answer. " A Petition to God, either God within or
without. It is usually for something impossible to ordi­
narily get, such as avoidance in trouble, a saving power,
or relief in sickness, poverty or distress, or an especial
favor.”
Ques. "W hat are such prayers usually called?”
Ans. "L ip or word service, for the hearing o f men,
and through which they have their own reward.”
Ques. "W hat have you come here to do?”
Ans. "T o pray and to know the principles of God
approach.”
Ques. "Then you understand there is a difference
in approach, that will make prayer different? In what
way do you believe this will come about, and how will it
affect you personally?”
Ans. " I understand there is a difference in prayer,
as to God, and m y relation to Him . In this prayer I am
about to enter, I understand that God is Omnipotent,
Omniscient and Omnipresent.
In fact three aspects of the same God, but as far as I
am concerned, is God always present and within.”
Ques. "Then it is presumed you are willing to obey
and follow instruction even before knowing?”
Ans. " I A M .”
Ques. "W hat do you mean by 'I A M ’ ?”
[7 7 ]
78 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
Ans. " I have been taught, it is the residence mes­
senger of God and approached through disciplining the
body and mind. It must be in the Silence, and when alone,
is complete.”
Ques. "Is this the Christ prayer, and the one He
advised His disciples to use?”
Ans. "Y es.”
Ques. "W hat effect has this practice upon conscious­
ness?”
Ans. " It fixes the practice of meditation, and the
procedure of prayer, into the gift at the A ltar, contem­
plation, meditation, conviction, and realization. After
which there is asking, and the granting of petition.”
Ques. "Is this always so?”
Ans. "N o, not always so; though the procedure is
always the same.
"The reason for a lack in answer is because of a lack of
discriminative knowledge.
"G od does not answer special desirous requests, for His
is an answer within law, and law. And so requests that
are in violation of law, are not answered.”
Ques. "W hy should this limitation be remembered?”
Ans. "Because law is God, and violation of it is cata­
clysmic, and alike to storms, earthquakes and violences.
These are not law, but violations. Also because the desire
part of man belongs to the violations of law.
Ques. "W hat should this teach?”
Ans. It should teach that petitions should always
be on the side of law, when there is the privilege of asking
believing.”
Ques. H ow does the individual connect with God,
in the silence?”
Ans. "B y eliminating desire, having love at the Altar,
and asking believing.”
"T he silence of meditation brings about a feeling of a
"Presence” , often termed the T A M ’.”
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 79
Ones. "Y o u speak o f force often termed the " I A M ” ;
is it not always the 'I A M ’ ?”
Ans. "N o , not always; or any great part o f the time,
for the 'I A M ’ comes only, after there has been cleansing
of the body desires, and an asking under law, wherein
selfishness does not enter.”
"M ost of prayer is of a selfish nature, and therefore the
ecstasy o f supposed "Presence” is an exaltation o f feeling
through suggestion, physical in character and so belongs
to the body.”
"The 'I A M ’ is a something within, that connects di­
rectly with God, and so is a part of the universal in power
and knowledge.”
"This prayer is not a usual habit, but the 'Precence’ is
known universally, because of the many helps given to
suffering mankind, after hope had departed.
"Such as relief from pain, sickness and death, averting
catastrophe, and the many helps not ordinarily belonging
to man.”
Ques. "Does the Silent prayer belong to the church?”
Ans. "N o , not as an ordinance, though practiced per­
sonally by most religionists, yet is always put aside in
church worship, for the spoken petition.”
Ques. "Is the spoken petition of value?”
Ans. "Yes, as a Mantra, if the words convey the idea
of God’s presence, and fix the principles by which the 'I
A M ’ comes aboard. Otherwise the spoken prayer is a
vain petition of no worth save in the 'hearing of men’.”
Ques. "Then there is a difference in the spoken prayer,
the Mantra, and selfish petition?”
Ans. "Yes, the difference is in the abstraction of the
prayer.”
"T he Mantra fixes abstract petition as a growth within,
to make possible the instant prayer without, a prayer of
service. And within, as a principle of disciplining the
80 ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS
body and mind, to abstract principles, that bring God’s
presence.”
Ques. "Then what are the practices in the Silent pray­
er to make effective the answering of personal problems?”
Ans. "T h ey are seven in number.”
"First— Love at the A ltar as a gift. Love is and must
be expressed unselfishly.”
"Second— Fixed resolve, to hold fast to principle and
law to know law.”
"T hird— To be alone and in the Silence. That is free
from thought association. It is called 'Brain Blanking’.”
"Fourth— Contemplation. That is in going into the
acts of the past, to find the mistakes made and correct­
ing, by putting something good in their place.
" It is in paying debt.”
"F ifth — Meditating upon the presence and power of the
'I A M ’, and asking it to come aboard, as the 'Resurrection
and the life’.”
"Sixth— In feeling the 'Presence’ as a something chang­
ing thought, and making it possible to be at one with the
indwelling Spirit.”
Seventh: "In asking, believing, and accepting.”
Ques. "Is this process a talking or silent prayer?”
Ans. " A silent prayer always, and is the same as any
other meditative principle, wherein the individual thinks
upon a problem and then gets up and does.”
Ques. "In what way is this process similar to one of
thinking without a conclusion?”
Ans. "It is the same, except in this, one always does,
and in the doing, is an answer.”
Ques. "W hat is meant by paying debts, given in the
Silent prayer of Christ?”
Ans. " It is to free the mind, by resolve to right a
wrong in payment.”
"It thus is rendering an account of stewardship, and
makes God universal in abundance and law.
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS 81
"D ebt without recompense is taking advantage of law.
So the mind has to be free, in order to know abundance.
Therefore debt paying is getting right within, regarding
human relationship.”
Ques. "W hat effect has this upon individual con­
sciousness?”
Ans. "T he greatest of all corrections. Because it con­
trols desires, covetousness, and theft in the heart and mind,
where these things first lodge.
"It makes it possible to be free from them, so one can
ask believing, and wealth, all material wealth had for the
asking.”
Ques. "Is not this materially impossible?”
Ans. "N o , when the heart is free from desire abun­
dance is the fru it of the tree.”
Ques. "W hat other essentials are in the Silent prayer?”
Ans. "T o know it is the selfishness of the body and
mind that must be put into abeyance to have the Spirit of
God active, so that asking believing, is the same as doing
and receiving.”
"This part gives peace, benevolence, and a kindly feel­
ing, and thus in work, love is always at the Altar, and the
'Presence,’ as a silent partner always doing.”
"It is to have that 'something’ to give peace and happi­
ness.”
Ques. "W hat effect has this practice upon the in­
dividual?”
Ans. "Its purpose is to change the equation from that
depending upon the material universe to one depending
upon God.
"It does so, when the individual makes a covenant to
follow in the footsteps of the Master teachers.”
Ques. "In what way is this different from ordinary
thought?”
Ans. "It is different in that effort is based upon a
82 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
feeling of universality, brotherhood, and service, where
always love is the master force.”
"O f course it makes things universal for the individual
in service. That is, there is always the same work, crea­
tive impulses, and growth. But in effort, there is the
assurance of health, happiness and abundance, and so
these things, that heretofore have been the result of desire
and strife, are left as problems already solved.”
Ques. "Is this so in actual effo rt?”
Ans. " It is so, proven and accepted, by all that have
gone before, and is my own experience.”
Ques. "Then the practice must be scientific and the
same as material practices of success?”
Ans. "It is alike to science, in that the principles are
always the same.”
"The procedure the same, and the conclusion according
to efficiency. That is, one must be proficient in detail
and procedure— to have effects. For there is no haphaz­
ard way in Prayer.”
" It must have the body prepared for work, the mind
trained in obedience and discipline, and the work itself
fixed as a vocation. Then prayer does the rest, in mak­
ing the inner force a partnership for outer effort, and this
is science.”
"The Suggestion of Prayer is scientific. The cleaning
of the body from mistakes scientific, and the meditation
upon work scientific. Asking and believing is scientific.
For all are a sequence of law.
O f course, there is more than science to prayer, for
the individual following has more of the abundance of
powers of God than can be had through the material. It
becomes instant in work to the Disciple, and all power to
the Master.”
Ques. "W hat does this indicate?”
Ans. " It indicates within, there is a power that can
control outer function; and by practice, it does so, by the
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM l LESSONS 83
very wish to do. To all others, their’s is according to
training and to 'm uch prayer and fasting’.”
Ques. "H o w long is the individual supposed to be in
prayer before there are results?”
Ans. "T hat, of course, depends upon the individual.
If prayer is only entered when there is asking for help,
then the time of growth is indefinite. When entered into
in 'the joy of the Lord,’ Probation results in works from
the beginning.
"A fterw ard the works become a habit, for law through
practice is complied with, even to detail.”
Ques. "C an this be demonstrated?”
Ans. "Yes, by rest periods, that are times o f Silence,
every day, morning and evening, to ask believing.
"Believing is the first part, then getting up and doing
is the second part.
"This second part is after the change of personality,
that is called 'Clicking in’, and is a feeling of the 'Pres­
ence.’
"T he presence is the great factor in successful doing in
prayer. It is the same as feeling 'I can do it’. Something
everyone has felt, in every problem solved.”
Ques. "W hat is the inner 'Presence’ often likened to,
and why does it not come forth, always?”
Ans. "Because of the limitations of the body in com­
plete surrender, the 'Presence’ does not come forth.
" It does only under law, and this law must be in detail.
Therefore, the 'Presence’ does not come forth always, but
when it does, brings with it an exaltation not egotistic, but
as one sitting at the feet of the Master, and hearing, be­
lieving His words.
"Sometimes this is objective confidence, alike to a ffir­
mation, that has no knowledge in fact.
"Be not deceived by these outer feeling, for the 'Pres­
ence’ will not come forth until the body is laid down, or
obedient to the will of the 'I A M ’.”
84 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
Ques. "Then it has the power given in 'I A M ’ affirm a­
tions?”
Ans. "It has, and is the 'I A M ’ working through the
body in proportion to surrender and obedience to law.
A t first there are glimpses or feelings of prayer being
answered.
"Then afterward, this feeling is confined by others see­
ing and noting.
"A fte r that the process is found in sequence of effort.
Then the experience of feeling is fastened by a like sen­
sation time after time.
"Later still, this sensation is noted to be more effective
in some things or conditions than in others, and then still
later there is an indwelling peace, that makes the 'Pres­
ence’ stable and of longer physical duration.”
Ques. "H ow does the individual discover this to be
true?”
Ans. "B y constant effort, in which service is extend­
ed to different conditions, in helps to individuals, and to
the race. It is not personal helps, though this too, is the
result of doing, and of being of service in reflective de­
velopment.
"This is the reason the face and development of the
body respond to spiritual things, in a refined expression
not found in any other field of endeavor.
"It is the complacency and devotion of the old, the
H oly, and the Saints.
"A lw ays it is happiness, and abundance, as well as health
according to the years.”
Ques. "W hat do these practices of probation further
mean?”
Ans. "T hey mean confirmed practices in the emo­
tions, that control the body desires, in either pleasure or
pain, to maintain an outer calm and an inner peace.”
Ques. "Is it necessary to have long practices in Pro-
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 85
bation, to ask believing and have the 'Presence’ come
forth?”
Ans. "N o, not always; for nature and nature’s law
make the body surrender to the Spirit in times o f stress,
and then belief, and faith gives power for the 'Presence’
to come forth.
"These are the involuntary occasions when the ego has
given up, but in themselves do not give the law.
"T he law is developed through probationary practices.
For there is only one way to have connection with the
Spirit within, and that is in knowing how, by surrender­
ing the body and mind; when asking believing.”
Ques. "Is it necessary to have connection and associa­
tion with the Spirit within, to live the life?”
Ans. "N o , the life of probation is lived without this
connection almost entirely at the beginning.
"The practice of probation is an uncovering process,
and takes much prayer and fasting, to make it conscious
of the Spirit 'I A M ’.
"A t first, it takes a longer time to make the 'I A M ’ in­
stant in service, day and night. And that is the object of
prayer.
"A ll practices belong to the forbearance all must have
regarding all things. So the degrees of Probation are prac­
tices of continued forbearance against the emotions of the
body and mind. They are necessary because they are the
only physical way to get results.
Ques. "Is it not true that some are born with these
gifts?”
Ans. "This is said to be true, but of m yself I know
nothing.
" It is said that there are drugs that will induce the
state. But of this I know not. Also it can be induced
through incantation. I do not know. I do know it can
be by the practices of probation and devotion.”
Ques. "W hat length of time does it require for the
86 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS
Disciple to complete the Degrees of Probation as given
by the Brotherhood?”
Ans. "This is individual efficiency. In as much as
one person has one gift and another another, all proceed
according to their gift or state of being.
"It is, however, a law that all have the same spirit, and
all have the privilege of calling the 'I A M ’ abroad, by the
same method. In this there is no difference.”
I AM I
C h a pter IX
[L e sso n 6]
M O R T IF IC A T IO N , C O N T R O L OF B O D Y A N D
B R E A T H E X P R E SSIO N S
M ortifying is to control sense habits by non-use, or
only controlled use. And this is to forbear, and restrain
them by training that is actually a control of the ego in
making of the body and mind subject to Divine will.
Divine will is in creative principles that give love,
peace, generosity, kindliness and benevolence to habit and
attitude, of the individual to all life problems.
God can do no wrong; and so wrong is a violation of
law, but the divine principle is always.
Love is its messenger here, and all men have love. Love
in proportion to the efficiency of cultivation. And this
cultivation is in the expression of Good will.
This Good and God is always within, waiting for the
individual to connect and use. The method is prayer, and
with it are practices of a physical character that have been
found to be effective.
"T he first of which is the involuntary muttering o f all
people when seeking solution of trouble. Then they m ut­
ter and mumble, without knowing what is said or in­
tended, and always because the mind or body, perhaps
both, are hopelessly torn with doubt and fear.
Muttering is a principle of mortification to bring sys­
tem out of chaos and order out o f misuse.
Muttering is an instinctive call upon that not known
for help. It develops into a call to the invisible and pur-
187]
88 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
poses to m ortify the senses into subjection that the call
may be heard.
From this instinctive m uttering the body of man has
been trained to go on until these mutterings are oft re­
peated calls for help.
Then mortification of the sense emotions become a part
of the submerging, until there is a willingness to lay
"down the body” , to find immortal life.
The practice of muttering becomes devotion to the Su­
preme Soul, for the Soul must become active to show
awakeness. And this is also in m ortification of the senses
into obedience to spirit force.
The restraining practices as well as the cultivation of
other activities are given as mortifications, because there
is a submergence of practices normally in desire and appe­
tite to another series that control these.
The practices are not reasoned upon, as to why or
wherefore. They do better than the normal body plan,
for are a following of Master’s w ay; and o f all masters
that have gone before who have blazed the trail into
spiritual understanding.
To be alone is one of the laws, to mutter another, and
then another is the submergence of sense desires.
Another is to put other practices in the place of the
old or discarded; or to make them over, by new intent
and anticipation, which is to bring to individual life an
understanding of the Divine.
Thus religious observance or prayer are not reasoned
upon before the practice, but the result is fact and is
reasoned upon.
These practices result in certain good effects, and so
the initiation of them are entered into, because if others
have, so can any one.
So the how, the why and practices of prayer leave the
indirect muttering, of not knowing, into a state of fixing
the body, so the Divine can come abroad in the light of
ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I A M 1 LESSONS 89
truth to do the "m ighty works” , God through His chil­
dren must do, to guide all others home.
The obstacles of going home, and understanding the
way, are all body restrictions, and because the functions
of the body have been left uncultured, and thus have
turned away from the divine to physical effort.
This is the w ay of breath. It is a function of the body,
bringing life to the organism, but it is also a means o f con­
tacting the within, in consciousness, and that has been
left out of the ordinary educational plan.
Breath is like m uttering and m ortification, indirect, and
because of a befuddled understanding.
It becomes hectic, spasmodic, and changeable under va­
rious emotions, but as these grow, breath more and more
lacks place in its divine relationship. The place it must
have.
M uttering is really used, in repeating without words,
a feeling holding the mind to the "ineffable word” and the
power of the " I A M ” coming abroad in daily tasks.
" I A M the resurrection and the life” contains the com­
pleteness of the idea to fix the body and mind in an ex­
pectant attitude in action.
Action being the same as if the "Presence” is objectively
present and in the act.
M ortification is first in control of sensuous living, in
maintaining discipline of mind and body, and then in be­
ing tolerant to all others.
It has two distinct activities. The first is to fix activi­
ties of body and mind regarding the life of the Soul, and
the equation belonging to the God side of the equation.
Second, it is to fix non-resistance by noncombativeness,
and letting peace return, when there is no peace in any
home visited.
Devotion to the Supreme Soul is in these three prac­
tices. The first two of which is as given and the other
Breath, that is to be given. The practices are daily and
90 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
in all work, no matter the kind; for each individual has
work of their own and divers gifts. "B u t only one spirit
in all.”
The practice of breath is in regulating the flow of "the
life wave” in the body, so that the effect of it can regu­
late subconscious force and release the " I A M ” in activi­
ties here.
It is a universal power, in that it is ceaseless motion;
the variations of which, when taken into the body, create
conditions necessary to sustain harmony, and also to cure
inharmony.
Therefore Breath is used to create a force to cure all
manner of disease, by tuning in and helping one another.
Breath has a regulation of coming into the body, and
that regulation is normal to man.
The inhalation of the male being a little slower than
the female. In man it is nineteen, and in woman twenty-
three.
These regulate heart action and temperature. Both
are normal as to heat, and rate as a health guide to man
and woman.
In sickness, disorder, accident, hurt or lack in vitality
the breath affects the temperature and pulse of the body,
and thus is connected ordinary observation to the laws of
breathing.
N aturally, the more known of breathing and its effect
upon the body, the greater the body resistance to disease,
and the power of the breaths to effect cures.
This is given as the greatest single power known to man,
by an eastern authority, who also says the Science of
Breath is worth more than a thousand elixirs.
And also that the Disciple never gets through paying
his teacher in breath, for the simple reason life cannot be
paid for.
The Breaths are given aside from those of a physiologi­
cal character as four in number and create by breathing
ALTRU RIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS 91
the four substances of the body, and are thus known.
They are called Motion, Heat, Moisture, and Substance,
and these with the variations of normal breathing are used
to cure all manner of complaints and diseases, and to so
adjust the body so that the individual can and does expe­
rience the enlightened influences of the Soul, and have
companionship w ith the “ I A M ” .
The reflex of breath upon the Disciple is to prolong
life, increase the rate of vibration, and give to the objec­
tive vision, according to developed efficiency.
A ll of this is given in the book on Breath, and in the
R .H .R . and so the reader is referred to these.
There is also a code book of Breath that gives specific
breath treatments, and so this need not be referred to
further here.
There is nothing in this philosophy to make life d iffer­
ent from its fundamentals. It is simply showing the bet­
ter way.
The body is subject to death, and has the afflictions of
sickness.
It is the part that is temporary and needs the help of
breath, and the correcting of its functions that breath
can give.
So correct breathing, and breathing to different parts
of the body are all for the purpose of giving power to
the hidden and latent resources within.
N o one stays young, but everyone’s body can have the
health and vitality of youth, tempered by the wearing
machine, all through the years, by a proper use of its
function.
Breath connects so intimately with consciousness that
there can be an increase of vibration to give added impulse
to the mind.
It can be attuned to give vision, and then it can be
stilled to quiet and lay the body down, in order to have
greater understanding. So Breath has tremendous possi-
92 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS
bilities; all a part of practices and Silences to make one
Conscious of their own " I A M ” .
In an ancient book it is given as the w ay to make of
the body a dynamo of God power. For through its office
the way is opened to do better than which you are doing,
and at the same time opens avenues to greater things.
From holding your breath in the first revelation of a
new thought, to the point of body separateness, there is
a constant use, and change of the various breaths, to give
strength and power.
The practices are simple, and are given in two charts,
that have been perfected through the years.
The first of which is to know the breaths, and by prac­
tice develop them through posture; while developing the
possibilities of your own hidden possibilities.
The second, is a series of breath developed from the
first, and after the first have assumed habit, to vitalize
the body and to keep it fit and young, even in old age.
N ot that the years will be still, but that man the body
can carry on to the end without lack in the vital prin­
ciple.
This very fact is self demonstrable, and marvelous as a
divine gift of God to the body.
It is these small things, the lack of, create hopelessness;
that when experienced, in relief, seem to suggest an all
power to the Soul. For this is giving relief to m any old
the more serious body sicknesses, the relief of which gives
joy.
Breath has a tuning in force with others that gives the
basis of thought reading, of vision and vibration. It is
the way to contact people in sickness, and to be at one
with them to give God’s message of health.
It is the principle behind vibration that gives the power
of transmission and of healing at any distance.
It is the something used by the Master in His distance
ALTRU RIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 93
healing and helps. It is a simple principle developed
through practice.
This practice is called the practice of Synchronism, as
is the acts of men getting together in conference or in any
social gathering. The more nearly there is evenness in
breathing, the more simple and at one the body movement,
the kindliness of feeling socially the same, the surer the
success of the conversation, or the doing of what is or
has been decided upon.
N ow this is a grand and glorious asset for any one to
possess.
The manner and method of becoming at one with an­
other.
Remember this atonement is going to the other person,
and by breathing the same, acting the same, and imaging
the same social structure, bring it back and make it a part
of the sinking down process, of "C licking in” and the
project of effort is mostly won.
A ll that is afterwards necessary is to have a fair, just,
and useful proposition.
O f course, there are other forms of breath aside from
the objective or outer, and these also have a very im por­
tant part in health and development. However, the one
objective breath not known or used is the Cleansing
Breath, and is important.
This breath should be known and practiced always at
the beginning and ending of every especial effort.
A fter treating the sick it should be used and always
when there is contagion, for it becomes a specific, to abso-
solutely keep disease away, and also all malicious or con­
tagious thought. It must be remembered and used.
The hidden centers of breathing are so through vibra­
tion and vision. That is they must be fixed by vision,
before activity can be attained, and that is through V i­
bration.
Still these are hidden forces that will take more time
9 4 ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS
than can be given in these lessons; so again it is the prac­
tical study of them that is recommended. For there are
practices to overcome states of failure and inharmony;
states of sorrow and tragedy that breath is given as a di­
rect first help.
N ow for practical helps. They also are Breath based
by "Clicking in” .
So when conditions break wrong, are sour and dour
take the laughing breath, then these things pass, because
they cannot live with laughter.
If thought is slow and the mental force will not solve
the problem at hand; if memory will not click, and the
past wanted is blocked o ff, then take the motion breath,
and there will be a "clicking in” to the vibration lost.
It is a cure for forgetfulness and a means of gaining in­
formation. A ll need to know this, and above all, all need
to practice the motion breath.
If the body is stiff, from work or age. If tired from
effort and needs rest, take the Moisture breath, and again
the body will respond, as a child responds to growth, with
the tired feeling going, until there is a time for normal
negation and sleep.
This is worth knowing in times of stress, and of tired­
ness. So the Moisture breath should be practiced for the
good it does.
If all worked out, after strenuous trial with the skin
dry, parched and sore, if the heart is weak, then take the
Substance breath, with the Moisture breath and there is
relief.
It is to these specific breaths, and the result of them
personally, the Probationer turns to in Discipleship— that
is, in reality, doing that which has been tried and known
to be true.
The Breath being an elixir that cures when arousing
the " I A M ” into consciousness.
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS 95
Then is a partnership of the invisible established, and
the work of healing as a basis to demonstrate power.
The Breaths and the discovery of powers in them, be­
come the rough hewn road, with believing, and the pow ­
ers of the subconscious, and the prayers o f Silence, the
way and law to bring the " I A M ” abroad, in actual heal­
ing, and in overcoming the failures of law in the body, in
the fam ily, in society, and in the world.
Probation is the term allotted to study in order to be­
come proficient in principles.
It is alike to study of educational systems and has at
the end certain definite vocational intentions.
This one may wish to be a healer, another in the voca­
tions, and still another a "House master,” and then another
in the trades.
It matters not the end in view, the fundamentals are
the same, and these must be practiced before experience as
a habit results.
So probation is a law of study, a fixing of principle, and
a laboratory of test until through Prayer, Fasting, Love,
and Service— the " I A M ” is brought abroad as an associate
in everything done.
Probation is the fixing of principle of practice and an
attention to detail in which there will be nothing lacking.
Christ said to His disciples: "This kind takes much
prayer and fasting” , and that is the object of probation,
for there must be nothing left out, or put in, contrary to
growth.
There is not a mixing of effects, and not a hoge-poge
of conclusions. N o violation, or mixing of prayer. N o
doubt in belief, or in praying to believe. N o mistakes
in the calling of the " I A M ” , and no m ixing of breaths
not law and order.
Indeed probation is a long school, and a self-effacing
one. It tells of itself, the devotion and continuousness of
the devotee, and as nothing else, the fitness to go on.
9 6 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
Then through strict trial and examination, comes the
initiation and the rites with it giving Discipleship and the
glory of going on.
This rite is the only one of Obligation in the Brother­
hood, and is the same in all study. Ju st an acknowledg­
ment of the fitness in study and the assurance the world
is the testing place and will give to each individual accord­
ing to fitness and work.
N o one can lay down and gain efficiency. That is,
work has its own reward, in which there is no place for
the sluggard or dolt.
N o place for the person that says I know, and does
not do. For the world is a place, where the Victors are
those in the Van, and in the front of endeavor.
It is the place of those who can best call and be of
service to " I A M ” .
It is a time just beyond trial, and goes into the actual
practice of formulas and principles that result in accu­
mulated fact.
It is the testing of one’s treasures, in staying with the
things taught, no matter the vocation or place in life.
It is indeed the formula for entrance into the "K in g ­
dom of God” , and the calling of H im into service. The
Call is always " I A M ” .
It is giving up the world, the material work, for the
Spiritual, and having treasures always on that side. N o
matter the circumstance or how others deride. It is hold­
ing fast in all circumstances to the last.
It is said, argument is good, but there is no argument
in fundamentals of growth? N o one can add to or detract
from truth. So the Initiate does not argue. H e will
answer questions, but never debate.
So initiation into Discipleship is in being fixed as to
principles, and having the living equation always on the
side of God, where no rust will destroy or moth eat.
ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS 97
It is a fixed something that alike to Faith, is the Sub­
stance of the hoped and the realization of the unseen.
These two degrees are the most important of all, because
they fix principles: to guide life at home, at work, and in
the Silence.
It is a time of ripening to the Soul, when one lays hands
upon you, blessing you and saying go forth: "Freely you
have received and freely give” .
There is no outward rite save that of obligation to do
and abide in the faith. A ll the rest is growth, the same
as all education.
It is never secret, save that it is not understood by those
who have not studied, then it is as secret as Geom etry to
the ignorant.
N o matter how many say they do not understand, that
cannot be the fault of the " I A M ” , or a matter of concern,
save to the ignorant.
It is not a secret to those who have stood the tests of
probation and are now Disciples; for one and all know
the principles and how to put them to the test of actual
living experience.
It is the most effective remedy known in healing the
sick, in straightening out the crooked places, including all
business conditions, and that most important of all, Cast­
ing out Devils” .
A ll people are capable of understanding the principles.
Though there may be many who think they have not
the time.
A ll can use the first steps naturally. A ll can study
breath, and learn to use it in a devotional way.
So with all, it is a series of practices with study, that
brings abroad the hidden and latent and gives knowledge
to cure the sick body, to bring happiness out of conten­
tion, and by the very power of the " I A M ” to have abun­
dance always.
Forty years have given me these things. I am wanting
you, and you everywhere, to be alike blessed.
C h a pter X
[L e sso n 7]
B R O T H E R H O O D C A T E C H IS M
Question. "H ave you Faith to ask believing?”
Answer. " I have, and have been examined upon this
phase of m y study and have had the assurance I am e ffi­
cient.”
Ques. "D o you practice the principles of sinking down
and within?”
Ans. " I have for a long time, and have also the prin­
ciple of contemplation, that enables me to see m any of my
mistakes regarding the 'I A M ’ and God.”
Ques. "Then we presume you are not worshiping as
you were taught from infancy?”
Ans. "N o , not in fact, though many of the principles
there are found to coincide with this better w ay.”
Ques. "W hat are these?”
Ans. A belief in God— as a devotional center. O f
God answering prayer, and of God being love.
A ll these are in the lessons. The difference being in the
location of God, and of the "I A M ,” being the center of
being; and of certain practices arousing hidden and latent
powers— enabling me to intelligently connect m yself with
the " I A M ” and through the " I A M ,” with all the uni­
verse.
Ques. "H ave you studied the Breaths, and what is this
different from the previous lessons?”
Ans. "Breath is an outer study and practice to put the
conclusion of the other practices into actual practice in
demonstration.”
ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS 99
Ques. "Then the breaths are different from the other
preparatory studies in finding the hidden and latent?
Am. "T h ey are, in that they are wholly physical prac­
tice by which the air comes into the lungs.”
Ques. "W hat is the office of the lungs?”
Am. "T he lungs are the reservoir of the body, for the
reception of air. It is a bellows and pum ping, that is fill­
ing and empting the air; they also act as feeders of the
heart of air, and thus is purification going on all the time
through the process of breathing pure oxygen— into the
heart of life, and there by burning the im purity of body
decomposition— that takes place in the blood canals.”
Ques. "Is there variation in breathing?”
Am. "N o t as to normal breathing, but there is as to
the emotional. Anger makes the individuals hold their
breath— and then breathe more rapidly than normal.
W orry gives an uneven breath. And this change effects
the blood of the body. So with all the emotions.”
Ques. "W hat does this suggest?”
Ans. "It indicates that people operate in breathing
under law and therefore to breathe properly, will aid the
individual in control of the body.”
Q ues. "H ave you studied breath sufficiently to give
the different breaths?”
Ans. " I have.”
Ques. "Then what is the reason for slowness in body
breathing and what does it indicate?”
Ans. "Slowness of the body blood count indicates a
subnormal condition of blood flow , and is either through
fear, doubt or envy— when young— and an abundance of
such experiences when old.
"The remedy is normal breathing— free from destroy­
ing emotions.
"The remedy is also in the Heat and Motion Breath.”
Q ues. "W hat other great thing is the Heat and Motion
Breath used constantly— to bring forth the 'I A M ’ ?”
100 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
Ans. "T he Heat and Motion Breath together, form
the basis of peace in the body. That is, they still emotion
so that the 'I A M ’ can come forth as a 'Presence’ and
then is love that expresses peace.
"It is the preliminary to all treatments and to all creative
changes in thought, whether these are social, professional
or otherwise.”
Ones. "W hat is meant by 'I A M ,’ as a 'Presence’— and
Love expressing peace?”
Ans. "The 'I A M ’ is the power of manifesting in
all human affairs.
"It comes through by laying down the Body.
"It is known by a change of feeling— as if one is in the
presence of God. Therefore, is the highest ideal of God.
"Love is a universal feeling, alike to all animal life, but
graded according to individual use.
"It is peace and joy in doing the right. And is gauged
by one’s own consciousness.
"It is in everything and all emotions, but is the con­
sciousness of right.
"In the inner consciousness— it is a feeling of the 'Pres­
ence’ to do what you wish— in help and service.”
Ones. "Then why do people question love?”
Ans. "Because, usually, it is to hide feeling of clandes­
tine thought and affections that are not without fear, and
so ask for a meaning.
"T he meaning then is simple— as simple as breath.
"It is a force of the 'I A M ,’ that is always peace and
always a 'presence’ to carry on.
"Love can and does have the hidden and clandestine,
but that— in no sense— is the meaning of the Christ love,
nor is it the love that cures.”
Ques. "H ow are these general weakenesses of the body
and mind overcome?”
Ans. "B y proper attuning— with the infinite, and
holding fast to the 'Presence’ ?”
ALTRU RIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 101
"Then in breathing normally, and fu lly— the complete
breath— with its accompaniment— the cleansing breath.
"Both are necessary— the first to create a clean reception
and the other to cleanse the body and mind— from impure
thought.
"O ne cannot be clean, and constantly question great
principles.
"The weakness is overcome entirely, by practicing rules
according to the book on breath— every day until the
breaths become naturally a habit of taking them all the
time— and according to the effort or thing to be accom­
plished?”
Ques. "W hat benefit is this to you?”
Ans. " It gives vitality to the lungs, and fixes attention
in vision— to always go toward the silent Partnership.
"M aterially— a correct breath cures colds, coughs and
lung afflictions. The complete breathing keeps the body
free and cleansing breath gives protection from all con­
tagions— and is better than a thousand elixirs.”
Ques. "W hat effect have the separate breaths?”
Ans. "T he Heat breath gives peace and warmth.
"T he Motion breath increases the vibration, and so
gives thought.
"T he Moisture breath is a glide and gives youth and
freedom from friction.
"T he Substance breath gives food, and creative energy
and is a builder of body resistance to age, and to time e f­
fects.
"T hey all together form the greatest remedial power
the world knows aside from the 'I A M ,’ that is always used
with them.”
Ques. "A re the breaths a part of the Probationary
period of study?”
Ans. "Yes, the breaths alike to all other principles
must be studied to be of worth, and so in the learning,
are all probationary.
10 2 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
"T hey start with understanding the principle of breath­
ing, according to the book, and then go from one to an­
other until the initiate is familiar with each of the seven
breaths, and the combinations of them.
"These Breaths are best practiced in classes where there
are several people, though this need not be.
"T he Breaths as practiced are noisy and for that reason
are looked upon as not good. Still the noisiness can be
overcome in the suppression of the emotion of doing until
they are taken without apparent notice. And are effective
because of power.”
Ques. "H ave they anything to do with M uttering and
m ortification?”
Am. "Yes, they are controlled thus.”
Ques. "W e presume, you know of the successive steps
in Probation?”
Am. "Yes, this is taught by the brotherhood to every
Desciple surrendering his worldly goods to follow .”
Ques. "Is surrender always?”
Am. "N o , only to those who have dedicated their life
to the work, and who have received life from the work.”
Ques. "W hat is meant by receiving life from the
w ork?”
Am. "T o have been hopelessly sick, and then have a
miraculous recovery.”
Ques. "A re there many such?”
Am. "I, of myself, can only speak of myself and so do
not know. I know of the laws given and the principles
expressed and these I will give.”
Ques. "W hat are the probationary degrees?”
Ans. "First to accept and follow. It is called obe­
dience. This is in prayer periods, living in an associated
thought of belief, and of asking believing, while receiving
instruction in the various practices necessary to give God
Presence.”
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 103
Ques. "Then we presume you have had this exper­
ience?”
Ans. "Yes, I have felt God presence and know this to
be true. I have not seen God. N o one does, but his pres­
ence is felt in and before every great w ork.”
Ques. "W hat do you mean by great w ork?”
Ans. "Developm ents within the body and mind,
through practices that result in cure, in overcoming diffi-
fulty or in solving problems not before understood.”
Ques. "D o these works come through at once, or at
the beginning of practices?”
Ans. "N o , there is no physical event to indicate heal­
ing, or any other great enlightenment. Just a feeling of
wellness and knowing.
"It is that way in the beginning of the M antra’s calling
upon the 'I A M ,’ for in the beginning there is no realiza­
tion.
"T h at comes later. So do all the other practices that
have periods of doing, or Probation before there is realiza­
tion in Doing.”
Ques. "W hat is meant by asking believing?”
Ans. "T o have a conviction— that there is a resident
force of God, always present and ready to adjust law—
so that asking will be the same as receiving.
"T he asking however, must be within the law— and a
universal principle even though it applies personally.”
Ques. "Does this apply to muttering and M ortifica­
tion?”
Ans. "Yes, these two practices are in the nature of a
great force. One fixing, an unmentioned desire to have
more light, and the other controlling impulse of emotion
to give law direction.
"In this case, mortification is in being ashamed of sense
possession that makes desire greater than God.
"It is being ashamed of mistakes— and resolving to for­
get or overcome.
104 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS
"Thus these two practices are self adjusting practices
for the guidance of personal efficiency.”
Ques. "Does muttering and m ortification apply to the
breaths as in the probationary practices.”
Ans. "Breath itself is one of the greatest of probation­
ary studies. For it gives a system of practices that are dif­
ferent from the psysiology of breath, and gives to the
five divisions of breath-elements, the taking of which are
to give certain powers to the body, mind and soul; the or­
dinary individual has no knowledge of— and less belief.
"These pratices require a long time to perfect— and a
longer one— to demonstrate beyond doubt. So the desciple
has to take them on probation, just the same as he has to
believe and ask believing.
"Fie has to call and receive. It is probation until that
time when there is specific practice and results.”
Ques. "Does Breath do this always?”
Ans. "N o , not unless the other practices are with it—
then it is a demonstrable power— in the cure o f disease
and in all other matters. There is nothing of law beyond
its power and is the master method of bringing the hidden
and latent aboard.”
Ques. "Y o u speak of the five divisions of Breath as
one; are they not separate, and is not this separateness the
difficulty in practice?”
Ans. "T he Five breaths are one breath— divided as fol­
lows: energy, motion, heat, moisture and substance, and
all in one as a means to hold the body fit.
"H owever, they are as practices separate, and there is
exercise for each breath.
"This is taught in the book on Breath— and illustrated
by the two charts. Still afterward there is the blending of
them to give force to the body in its use of them.”
Ques. "H ow is this accomplished?”
Ans. "It is accomplished by making the last breath
practiced, the major breath in concentration. Then the
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 105
law is to forget, by returning instantly— to normal breath­
ing.
"A nd all of this practice is probationary until there are
results in effective cure following a specific practice.
And this is the road from probation to Discipleship.”
Ques. "Is the practice of Breath Specific regarding
the cure of disease— and of social and other trouble?”
Ans. " It is believed to be the greatest remedy known
for the cure of disease. It has many specific breaths that
operate with astonishing success for many o f the diseases
common to mankind.
"These are in the rough hewn road and so are avail­
able. Their proportion is given in the code book.”
Ques. "H ow about business and social affairs?”
Ans. "T he effect of the breaths are to give the body
power to propel thoughts of the mind— and also the plan
and w ay to lay down the body in order to attain life im ­
mortal.
"Then Breath becomes the messenger of the Soul and
the active principle in descipleship.”
Ques. "W hat is the method of grow th?”
Ans. " It is by fixing— the principles and then practic­
ing, until they are axiomatic. That is, come involuntary
because of need. It is the principle of asking-believing.”
I A M I
C h a pter X I
[L e sso n 8]
C O N C E N T R A T IO N A N D IN IT IA T IO N IN T O
D EC ISP LE SH IP — SIM PLE LA W S
N ow we come to study the principles of correct think­
ing, and thus review the habits of youth to understand
mistakes and correct errors of judgment.
For man must ask believing to have results in demon­
stration. The asking is universal, but the answer is limit­
ed to the few who know.
It is the "Presence” of the " I A M ” that is the most im­
portant single development, and this is fixed by principles
of Mind study and practices. The study is in understand­
ing principle and practice and putting them to the test
of experience.
In the beginning, all have to believe without tangible
reasoning to sustain. For inasmuch as the body and mind
are limited by environed knowledge, it is natural to go
beyond both body and mind when seeking the universal
and the cause of causes. And so there are certain funda­
mentals that must be fixed— as essential in belief before
there can be progress.
N aturally too, these fixed beliefs may be so without
demonstration and therefore not proven. Therefore, the
very idea of development is to fix and attain. This is con­
centration.
It is also consecration; for there has to be fixedness to
carry belief through the illusion of the senses to demon­
strable fact.
The practice is to go o ff a distance to pray and that is
similar to going o ff to consider the laws of concentration
[106]
ALTRU RIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 1 0 7
when one is about to consider principles o f thinking.
The first part is to put something in the place of objec­
tive thought, and that is Brain blanking, or getting into a
revery of peace.
Thus the Love gift at the A ltar is as natural as love is
natural. For at this time, being free from outside thought
and wanting very badly to know the principles through
which there is communion with God, the attitude must
be one of love.
To those asking, queerly about what is meant by love
the answer is simple. Love is what all have and know. It
is from the instincts to abstraction; but is always the basis
of desire, want or possession. It is always giving, giving
all it has for that wished.
N ow this love you have and all have is for you to use
as your life calls, and upon the plane it calls.
First, most feel it is always possessive, but there is the
other and greater thing, that of being possessed, or be­
longing. And that is the greatest feeling of all. Ju st to
belong!
Thus the blanking— and love before resolve— is the be­
ginning of concentrative effort. It is similar to what a
child does in getting the rudiments of an education.
It is listening and remembering. A putting something
informative in the place of emptyness of thought— or the
floating idleness of the moment.
The child grows in grace and understanding through
this method. This and love. To follow is to go o ff a
distance to pray; to listen and to contemplate the princi­
ples of religious growth that are given as the Master’s way.
From this practice it is believed there will come forth an
understanding of a "Presence” within; capable of help in
all things.
It gives inspiration to do things better and thoughts
that are creative. O f course Inspiration is not all, or even
a great part of that which is to come.
108 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
However it is the same as childhood responding to newer
and better ideas, and so shows the Disciple to be on the
road. He is beginning to have a basis for a solution to all
problems of the body.
To go o ff a distance to pray is alike going to school.
There is the place— principles become habit— and the oft-
repeating of practices— brings forth the law and truth—
of having "Peace” within— to withstand all the pricks and
arrows of worldly experiences.
It is a time to separate the two, and to remember this
Silence is going away from the world— to be alone and
then with, the Master power.
The "Presence” takes doubt out of belief— and makes
of this time holy and a continuous habit.
That is the meaning of Concentration, a continuous
habit of thinking aright. That is upon the Presence of
God in all things.
So the "Presence” is the "Kingdom of God,” and that is
peace within and in everything, and it comes from a prac­
tice of the principles of prayer in Concentration.
Just a practice of going o ff a distance, to be alone, and
have a conversation with the " I A M ,” in righting condi­
tions, asking for guidance and have an answer returned.
A ll of which is law, and the beaten path of Disciples.
For all start, because of a longing to know God— and be­
cause nothing physical satisfies. A ll start with a wish for
God’s presence, and so it is for the principles of concen­
tration to bring this about.
They start with the "Presence,” as something hoped for,
but not known, and believe Silence will give the same aid
to this major project, it has to the lesser ones of thinking
out a problem in arithmetic.
That is what Christ said— of the Silent prayer— asking
believing is necessary for the Presence to answer petition.
That is the way of the " I A M ” brings to pass things ac­
cording to belief and faith.
ALTRU RIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 109
The “ I A M ” demands a belief and obedience to law.
Belief in His presence; that is the body must be devoted.
It must serve and love, fast and pray, as it would to loving
associates, and when asking— believe; and then there will
be nothing lacking in the answer. A ll of which means to
ask according to law, so meditative concentration is upon
law.
Thinking backward and correcting faults— looking fo r­
ward— resolving to live free from them, and carrying on
in the present as if God is a silent and close associate.
Alw ays the inner and hidden has urged man to seek and
know the power of the soul. Sometimes, as if beckon­
ing— there is a Master, working amongst men with the
soul awake. He is always saying: "o f m yself I do not do
these things; the Father within He doeth the w ork.”
Here " I A M ,” " I A M T H A T ,” SA T , A SA T , L IF E A N D
R E S U R R E C T IO N . "Convinced of this and there will be
'The resurrection and the life5.”
For " I A M ,” what all must know within themselves—
and am waiting for a call, the call to come forth and do.
" I A M ,” approached through due processes of law called
practices of adjustment, and always these practices are the
result of contemplation and meditation. They lead to ask­
ing believing; and this is the traveled path o f every
desciple.
A ll of the practice is concentrative after the acceptance
of principles.
These practices are the result of belief and of those—
who going before— have demonstrated in "m ighty works.”
They are not objective and cannot be reasoned upon.
The reason is always afterward or when practice results
in demonstration.
From within there is a mighty urge calling— and Mas­
ters are pointing the way. The way is a system that starts
with "Brain Blanking” or control of thought expression.
It is to stop thinking— upon things around and about—
110 ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
as the filling or complete interest of the mind— to put in
their stead thoughts directed within— and this is by stilling
the outside influence.
To still outside influence is to fix the senses upon some­
thing else, and this is by focussing. The eye being the out­
er evidence of the soul, its gaze being fixed upon an ob­
ject— directs thought that way, and so gazing has long
been used as a method of concentration.
For that purpose— a card system has been fixed to bring
into action the Breaths, colors and focus altogether in ab­
straction— the sense propensities; stilling them.
The practice starts in looking at the card, tiring the eyes
and with this tiredness, the senses become sleepy, no longer
functioning in thought, and that is the process of "Brain
Blanking.”
Card gazing is in no wise an end, but just a happy be­
ginning that all can practice.
It is the practice of idling thought by focussing— and of
course other methods will suffice. Still with the colors
and their explanation— practice of stilling the brain is
made easier.
Again with this stilling there comes a time when resolve
can be fixed without other thought conditions.
Thus Resolve is an effort to place upon the thinking
nodules of the brain a thought free from guile. And, thus
the stilling of thought becomes imperative as a cleansing
principle before Resolve.
Follow this with Love at the Altar, and there is a clean
gift to the " I A M .”
So afterward Contemplation— and meditation are fol­
lowing principles the activity— of which in practice car­
ries the individual from the outer body inward, until there
is asking believing— that in nature is Conviction— in fact
and truth— of the "Presence.” Then when this asking is
in answer, there is Revelation.
So the System of concentration is in going from the
ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS 111
wants and desires of the body inward by practices of mind
and body that still the things of the objective and phe­
nomenal world.
This system is the same as prayer, save that it has fixed
rules of procedure, prayer silent or w ordy has not; for
this is an active agent of mental and soul training to know
while controlling the body.
Alw ays mankind have been seeking the hidden and lat­
ent; and always most have failed by resting belief in a
traditional worship.
Failure being because of a lack in intent, anticipation
and realization. For there can be no fixedness without
intent and anticipation having reward in realization.
So the System of practice is to overcome a lack o f in­
terest; and not for any other purpose.
Practice means success of correct principles to come
outward in work.
It is not fancy or imagination that tries to get " I A M ”
as a mental resident of the mind and body, but a real per-
cieving in faith and belief— in the hidden latent self that
is God within and " I A M ” to man.
" I A M ” because with it all things are possible and noth­
ing hidden that will not come abroad.
The two means of knowledge are the correct and in­
correct cognition of things. The world has as much of
the incorrect as the correct, because of ignorance and the
illusion of the senses. The overcoming of which is in
pondering upon self evident fact.
He is wise indeed, who can separate the true from the
false, for this by experience and the practicing of prin­
ciples of self training and tuning into the unknown, bring
the unknown forth in revelation, that is demonstrable
and repeated in law practice.
Still there are things known not demonstrable, save in
the fact of being; and these are always self evident.
Against the self evident there is neither fancy or imag-
112 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS
ination and so practice is ever alert in discrimination
against the seemingly self evident that is not. The idea of
God being afar o ff, is one of these. H e can never be that
and universal, and so must always be present. So always
remember the beginning of Concentration is to fix the idea
of God— being within and always call upon the " I A M .”
Remember, His presence must be felt.
Calling is the imperative thing, and the feeling neces­
sary; for the " I A M ” is always present, and always ready
but must have the desires of the body cleared away. Thus
failure in approach is always on the side of the body. So
it is well to know God as an abstract principle and though
present, does not take part in or interfere with body
desires— nor does it come through when these are upper­
most.
It is a resident of all creative force and a personal help
and partner when the body is laid down— and there is a
resurrection into the " I A M ” life. So make this a picture;
the purer the better.
The effect of a perfect picture is proven by calling
upon the " I A M .” Call and believe! Call and call again,
and believe— doubting nothing. Then the results— sees
hope melt into a real feeling of satisfied action.
Dwelling upon the " I A M ,” and having demonstration
fixes confidence— that is different from affirm ation— in
that it brings to consciousness a something— that is the
same as life itself.
It is: "W hile I know of myself, I cannot do, I have the
Father within that w ill.” Blessed idea to be always the ob­
ject of devotion; so keep at it in all times of concentration
to fix the idea.
There is no rest from fixing; because remember the
body goes on all the time, its desires are always, and so the
anti— to them— must be constant. It can be made a pleas­
ant constancy— with the equation fixed upon the side of
ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 113
God. And this is by constant prayer, fasting, love and
service.
For "R est Periods,” become states of abstraction in
which the cares of the body are left while the mind is oc­
cupied with devotion to the Supreme. A Supreme within,
that is a part of the A ll, while that which comes forth in
the body, is the " I A M .”
It is a defining relationship of the body and mind— to
the Soul and God that is entered. It is different from
emotion— and when the Soul brings the " I A M ,” it goes
through the body as a divine benediction.
It is not limited to the body, but is the Absolute made
omnipresent at the time and all the time when the body
lives in His name, " I A M .” So call, and be prepared in
belief and faith dwelling upon the feeling power of Him .
Then will be His Presence, banishing all sicknesses.
This is the way of the " I A M ,” that is arrived at
through rest periods. It is to become acquainted with the
principle and second apply through work.
Always there is preparation for concentration in an ex­
act arrangement and sequence of practice as the first part
of it and then follow the second part, or that o f putting
to the test the thing meditated upon.
Then is followed works. And the works are a demon­
stration of the "Father within.” When they are not, then
there is a lack in development or approach, and so it is to
go backward correcting and adjusting until "W orks” are
the result.
The efficiency of Concentration as a study or practice
is in habit and continuity. If it so happens, other things
interfere and there is only incidental practice— there will
be a lack in progress.
The reason for "Rest periods” must be to fix power
and to let the power run through in the cure of others.
So to have others take rest periods— is to let the power
generated by Abstraction flow to and through them. N ow
11 4 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS
as is often the case; "R est Periods” become irksome to
patients getting well, how great must be the physical disci­
pline to make the periods stick, when there are so many
other things to do.
The entrance to the " I A M ” is like planting seed in the
soil. Some plant in poor ground; some where the sun and
wind destroy and then there is the planting in rich soil.
So make the selection. N o seed or intention will mature
in poor soil or in thin soil or where there is not right think­
ing. Alike to this is the Seed of God in the heart of man.
It too, needs the right planting attention and anticipa­
tion.
The meaning of right thinking, necessary to planting
thought of God is to have belief, faith and doing, welded
into one action. Thus the devotee must be free from the
egotism and desires of the body at the time. There must
be a cultivation of the virtues and a feeling of loving kind­
ness. There must be a following of rule— from the be­
ginning, to asking believing and a faith in the response.
These virtues are within the body of every one, for they
are a peaceful feeling of good will. These have their own
reward among men, and an imperative necessity in asking
believing. Moreover are the basis of the " I A M ,” coming
through.
The " I A M ,” is not always present when called upon—
for the principles must be. When the egotist thinks an
affirm ation the same as the " I A M ” or a good feeling the
same or even a feeling of power— it. H e is riding for a
fall.
The " I A M ” is not body or egotism, and is attained
through straight and sure rule— that vary neither to the
right or left. So remember to separate the body I am
from " I A M ,” in all things and ask believing. But ask,
after preparation and the clicking in— that is the other
and holy personality.
It is known for its very works sake— but is clear and
ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I A M I LESSONS 115
distinct— from personal egotistic good feeling; so there
must not be confounding of them.
Get this blankness of feeling that is clicking in, and then
call upon the "Father within,” believing— nothing lack­
ing. It is the law of demonstrating principles, and always
the perfect receptive body demonstrates, and no one can
do more than they are prepared to express.
There are grades of " I A M ” expression; and these are
according to training and culture. Culture in this in­
stance— means the time of application— to the medita­
tive— in prayer as well as the general refinement, coming
from education and a love life.
While it is the same principle— followed in objective
learning, there is a difference in direction, for here it is
to have the house clean, and in an attitude of devotion.
And so prayer is open to the ignorant as well as the cul­
tured, and while the cultured have the advantage of a
more perfect sitting to build, both can grow in grace and
power. Still the attitude must be that of devotion.
The attitude of being a child, listening for information
from parents is the plan.
It is building words into sentences, and these to definite
ideas that are the objective basis of an education. So with
the within, it too has to be believed in, and questions ask­
ed; for these form the basis of thinking upon the within.
That thinking is the basis of concentration that begins
with the body and goes inward to the " I A M .”
When the " I A M ” is brought forth, there is power, for
it is the "P R E S E N C E .” And it is the means of prayer
being answered. So the principles of Concentration are
based upon prayer practices, and these practices are based
upon the practices that will systematize mind thought—
in going from one state of being to another.
The failure of prayer, is in not knowing the processes
of getting ready; in not following given rules, in the pro­
cess of thought, and in having the object either indefinite
11 6 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
or not known. So it is an indefinite prayer— without the
reasoning principle in it, and is ineffective.
N ow we come to concentration, that will straighten
out the crooked places in prayer, and give the Desciple a
plan that has been proven by all who have traveled its
way.
Just remember God is within. W ithin you and every
living creature.
He is contacted and associated with by surrender of the
body to his will.
His power within, is the " I A M .” And this " I A M ”
comes abroad in all helps to the body and mind of man,
who ask believing and is prepared in training.
— Training means Love at the Altar.
— Resolve before asking.
— Following rules of proceedure.
— Laying down the body and cares.
— Seeking Isolation and freedom from body hates and
desires.
— To ask believing and do.
— To make concentration regular for information
and instant in action.
— So always "click in” before doing.
— For the " I A M ,” though the most intimate friend,
will not come abroad unless the rules are all com­
plied with; so remember and do.
These are the rules of going through
" I A M I T H A T IS I A M ”
I AMI
C hapter X II
[L e sso n 9]
B R O T H E R H O O D C A T H E C H ISM
Ques. "W hat is it meant in the Brotherhood— to be a
Desciple?”
Ans. "T o believe in the consciousness of the Divine
within, to know the practiced w ay to attainment and put
these to the test of actual work in demonstration.”
Ques. "Then we presume these laws can be demon­
strated as actual fact through a uniform system of teach­
ing?”
Ans. "Yes, it is believed that all law is demonstrable
when there is a discovery of the way, and that in the search
of the Kingdom of God, here— there is no hinderance
save ignorance of law; and doubt and fear on the part of
the seeker.
"T he law always comes through the same act; that is,
concise in principle, and then after being fit, put it to
the test of demonstration.
"In this work it is to make prayer practical by following
rule and rote.”
Ques. "Is prayer a plan of concentration?”
Ans. "N o , not as ordinarily practiced. It has no
given direction or procedure, save in the "R osary” or
other forms of word worship.
"H ow ever concentration is prayer made subject to rule,
and is then scientific. Always the same in procedure
and always having an ending— in answer.”
Ques. "W hat is meant by 'now we are about to con­
centrate’?”
[1 1 7 ]
118 ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
Am. "It is meant to convey to the disciple there are
many rules and practices that must be put into action
before there is active demonstration of hidden and latent
powers representing God within.”
Ques. "A re these powers active in all men?”
Am. "N o, not any part of the time, but are expressed
in times of danger, sickness and fear, when there is a giv­
ing up of body resistance. Then sometimes they come
forth as an aid.”
Ques. "W hat are these aids called?”
Am. "A cts of divine providence.”
Ques. "Is this the same as Concentration?”
Am. "N o , Concentration is in knowing principles and
practices— that will uncover the principle or conscious­
ness of an within presence.
"This 'Presence’ is called the 'I A M ,’ and is brought
forth by repeated calling; to bring the objective to spirit­
ual consciousness. When the power comes forth as a
Spirit, then is a feeling of its 'Presence’.
"Christ said: 'I feel the spirit of God upon me, for He
has annointed me to com fort the broken hearted.’ That
is the feeling. A something that gives power.”
Ques. "C an all people have it?”
Am. "Y es; the power is universal, and always the re­
sult of devotion.
"It may be had in the old or traditional way, and this
must have been with Prophets and Seers.
" It is arrived at through direct practices— of rules—
for body and mind control. All self demonstrable.”
Ques. "Is it practiced by religious organizations?”
Am. "N o, not as a rite— for the wordy form has taken
its place; but is practiced by individuals— without rule or
sequence— in procedure; and therefore is not effective in
bringing the 'I A M ’ into daily action in the affairs of
men.”
Ques. "W h y is it necessary to practice Concentration
A NARRATIVE OF LOVE 119
in the silence of prayer, to attain God consciousness?”
Am. “ It is necessary because of the fundamental of
not being able to do two things at one time. Either the
mind has to be occupied with physical things, or in direct­
ing physical effort to be at one with the thing. Thus,
when the mind is occupied with spiritual things, or doing
spiritual things to have understanding of these, there must
be atonement.
“ When man fails to recognize there is a principle of
atonement within, that applies to every effort of man—
he registers failure. For there must be atoneness of effort
as well as atoneness of thought.
“ And this is the reason and explanation of going o ff a
distance to pray, or of being alone in meditation and
silence.”
Qiies. “ W hat is this separateness called?”
Ans. " A battle between the higher and lower self.”
Ques. "W hat is the first procedure?”
Am. " A resolve to lay the body down, to surrender
it while asking believing. It is a process of 'restraint
and denial’.”
Ques. "W hat is this process?”
Am. "It is practicing control of the body appetites
and desires. The first part of which is control of selfish­
ness by restraints, and of desire in the body— by denial.
"T he body is constant in its desire— from food to every
other emotional tendency, and so must have denial in order
to regulate habit. It is selfish and possessive, so must have
a recognized brotherhood, wherein individual liberty is
controlled by the good of all.
"The control starts with habits of appetite, regulating
according to health standards. From the mind to the
moral.
"In regulating habits and excesses— by putting some­
thing good in their place.
"Thus the five great sins are given as the great hin-
120 ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
drances to human progress— and a bar to the soul.
"These sins are Murder, Stealing, Lying, Immorality
and Covetousness. Three of them are now universally
condemned by the race. The other two, are more gen­
erally practiced; the one placated, and the other ap­
proved.
"Covetousness is approved under the idea of frugality,
and of getting because it is possible and man law.
"It is not the law of God— for there, it is one of the
great sins— with hardly any rich man entering into the
Kingdom of Heaven’.
"Lyin g is often thought to be harmless.”
Ques. "H ow are the great sins banished from con­
sciousness?”
Ans. "B y the practices of kindliness, benevolence and
charity.
"These are first fixed as principles of guidance through
prayer. They are then used as daily guides of conduct.”
Ques. "H ow often should prayer periods be entered
for the purpose of impressing thoughts of righteousness?”
Am. "A lw ays, day and night until it is a grounded
feeling within.”
Ones. "W hat is the very center of Concentration?”
Am. "T o attain to the consciousness of the 'I A M .’
And to use this power as a 'Silent Partner’ in daily affairs.
"It is to feel God, without the constant body limita­
tion.
"It is this freedom that gives the privilege of 'walking
and talking to G od ;’ that is, the privilege of the 'pure in
heart.’
"It is this privilege that gives power to see wrongs, and
to right them. To see mistakes and correct, and to put
something good in the place of evil.
" It is making God a partner, and should be everyone’s
duty as well as privilege.”
Ques. "W h y is not this universal as a belief?”
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS 121
Ans. "Because of fear and doubt, and the fact the
sense illusions, make the ego greater than God.
"Because by experience the ego gets to feel the things
it does not know, cease to exist, and the things it does,
are severly immortal, God and life. Therefore it has a de­
sire for continuous life in the body, and worships that
which dies.
"The body dies, and has always, and so as all material
things, yet the ego persists, in the body, rising from the
grave.”
Ques. "H ow are illusions of body continuity over­
come?”
Ans. "B y common sense, and realizing of the body
there is always change, from growth, m aturity and age,
decay is going on; so for the body there is death.”
Ques. "H ow is this answered by the Brotherhood?”
Ans. "It is answered through knowledge gained from
introspective Concentration, that there are seven bodies of
man and these start from the primordial to and through
the structure building according to plan, to become tan­
gible in the physical, and then refining backward and in­
ward, until the last of the body structures is ethereal and
spiritual.
"It is a fact all that have gone before are lost in the ele­
ments of the earth, and inasmuch as they all are gaseous
creations, to dust again they return. W ithin is Spirit
building and that other part, the Soul who at last is to
merge into God who gave it.”
Ques. "W hat is the concentration called that gives
this?”
Am. "It is called Brakti Yoga, or love meditation.
It is a constant dwelling upon the infinite with love and
in a meditation seeing from the God fucus.”
Qiies. "W hat are other forms of Concentration?”
Am. "There are three more, called Hatha Yoga or
mind control. Jnana, pure intelligence. Jnana Sakhya,
H M H H B H lP ^ ......................» in... ......... .
122 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS
vision. Brakta Yoga, divine love, Hatha Yoga Jnana and
Jnana Sakti is the isolation and separation from one’s
fellows in everything that separated body feeling from
allegiance to JE H O V A H .
"T w o of these are studies from above— two from the
body.
"R aja starts with the body and takes into consideration
the laws guiding physical things. Therefore, its outer ef­
forts are along the material and scientific.
"Then it deals with the mind forces— giving rule, then
the soul, and experience and at last the entrance in to the
Kingdom of God upon earth and all men entering there­
in.”
Ques. "W hat is the practice of Concentration accord­
ing to Raja Yoga supposed to give to the Disciple?”
Am. "The way of doing all things better as it frees the
mind from the hinderances that have kept it from the 'I
A M .’
"The way to Happiness— in a knowledge there is noth­
ing lost, and that all are going toward freedom from
bondage.
The way to health— for it gives the power to wield
the laws of health, and the invisible part of man, to cure
the outer and constantly law breaking part of diseases.
The way to abundance— for it gives a knowledge of
the earth plenty, and that a control of selfishness— will
give to all mankind abundance.
"Finally, it gives association with the inner presence,
and the Kingdom now and here.
"It is accomplished by the principle of getting at one
with the within.”
Ques. "W hat is this feeling called?”
Am. " 'Clicking in’ and is a state where the objective
ceases to function actively.
" A feeling of rest mentally, then a deeper revery—
when there is a transition of thought activity so marked,
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 123
the feeling is of peace and of power, that really has a
knowledge, the body and mind can do nothing. Then it
is this inner presence comes forth with direction.
"The feeling of this attitude is not easily interpreted,
but is for every one according to their station and plane
of mental activity.
"A lw ays it is, when preparation is followed.”
Ques. "The Preparations, what are they?”
Am. " A control of body function at the time; an
idling of objective thought, as if hearing and not hearing.
" A love gift, stilling thinking impulse and listening
when still to a something not heard, or seen by ordinary
mental or body power.
"Then the coming through, is as if a visitor is present
and there is information— that is instantly put in action
of doing, without thinking about the process.
"The process is one of trial over a period of years and
a process that becomes more efficient after trial and the
success of demonstration.
"It therefore, has to be demonstrated by the Disciple in
doing— the same as all other principles.
Afterwards— sometimes, long after first demonstra­
tions, there is an instant 'clicking in,’ and at the will of
the operator.
"It is what Paul said of instant prayer day and night,
to be of service.”
Ques. "W hat is another discription of 'Clicking in’ ?”
Ans. "It is the peace that falls upon one, when in con­
tact with holiness.
"There is a stillness of perfect peace, and a feeling of a
'Presence.’
" It is a state of mind that wants to record something
happening, of ineffable gladness— and yet, has no word
or incident to record.
"It is God visiting— and so there cannot be recording
words.”
124 ALTKURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
Ques. "Is this usual and the experience of every one?”
Ans. "Yes, always true, and the experience of every
one according to efficiency and devotion to the soul.”
Ques. "W hat other practices save those of finding
God and clicking in— are essential in Concentration?”
Ans. "Concentration is in fact mental discipline and
applies to all vocations, and so is essential to all trades.
"M ore than this, Concentration of the Raja Yoga type
is necessary in the control of the body— in breath in men­
tal discipline, and in the studies of culture.
"There is no limit to its usefulness nor to the work part
of it— in everything the individual undertakes and lives.
"W ith it, there is success— and without, failure. It is
the opposite of being idle, and of an idling mind.”
Ques. "W hat are the great obstacles to it, that Christ
experienced?”
Ans. "T he physical desire to eat. The one to have
phenomenal power; and that of power (possession), found
in the three great temptations.
"The other three, are betrayal by a friend; failure of
the faithful, to remain awake; and denial at death— and
when fear choked the heart of followers.”
Ques. "W hat was the cause of these failures?”
Ans. "First, something new was being demonstrated
for the benefit of mankind; and so, the prejudices of the
past and its ignorance, combatted.
"T he second, is the test of love— that has changed from
power to fear and from God to doubt.
"The resurrection proved both to be false.”
Ques. "Then what is universally necessary to have
and maintain the God principle of the 'I A M ’ ?”
Ans. "A gain as always, the answer is the prayer of
Silence.
"Silence is the basis of concentration— as it is the basis
of prayer.
"A lw ays the primary principle are the same, in that the
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS U5
whole object of prayer and living, is to know God, and
God through the 'I A M .’
"The physical, mental, Soul and Spiritual are so closely
associated; physical relaxation, for one or either are the
same. The difference is in result.
"T he sameness is in the nature of relaxation, that may
enter into sleep— and is sleep to many.
"Then from this sleep, when the Soul manifests— there
is an awakening— into another personality; differing from
dream or even hynosis, in that it has freedom from physi­
cal control.
"T o it the body is resting, but not thinking or fu n c­
tioning, save to give power from the physical life stream.
"Thus there is an actual change in thought conditions,
from the body to the Soul.
"It is the same Christ used, in many of His seeing ex­
periences.
"The same as experienced by Paul in his vision, and the
same as that of Peter and Cornelius— and is always called
trance.
"Something that all some times will experience as they
pass from one state to another.”
I AMI
C h a pter X III
[L e sso n 10]
T H E C O N C E N T R A T IO N O F ISO L A T IO N . TO BE
A B S T R A C T IS T O K N O W T H E PO W ERS
W IT H IN
The Magnetic Body and Application of Motion
In Thought Action
Hatha Yoga is mind concentration, and is in contradis­
tinction to Raja Yoga in that it starts with mind control
and is in action isolation. In that it is a separating process
in thought from the rest of the world. Depending upon
isolation and self development for happiness.
Thus Raja Yoga and Hatha Yoga are the two methods
that are practiced by disciples. One the Head, and the
other the Heart, way to lead to the subconscious or "I
A M .”
Bringing forth the " I A M ,” make them similar in re­
sults. One however is Isolation and a separating from the
rest of the world, and the other is an effort to carry the
race with it.
One gives the caste of civilization as religious; and so,
from the untouchables to the Lamas, there are seven dis­
tinctive castes in the east that do not commingle. Indeed
are distinct.
And that is the outer effect of Isolation. W ithin the
caste the other Yogas operate, that of Love, and supreme
devotion. These are called Brackti Loga and Jnana-yajna.
N ow the cultivation of mind for culture is not enough,
and so must be added the other form of concentration that
[126]
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD l AM 1 LESSONS 127
starts with the body and carries all the others.
The mind develops an understanding of the Ethereal
sheath or magnetic body that gives universality in m ag­
netism to all bodies and develops powers of distance pro­
pelling of thought, according to force within. This pow­
er gives the privilege of each individual to use the " I A M ”
according to their propelling power.
I am asked if the " I A M ” comes abroad, and one knows
it, then how can you boss God around— by sending H im
to others.
I answer: The " I A M ” is m y God— and m y expression
of Him . H e is personal, and of course, is God— only that
he contacts God, the same as m y finger tip contacts me.
It is not me, but is the same as " I ” .
"The 'I A M ’ comes abroad on the 'current’ of the life
wave, that though having life from breath is the current
that interpenetrates the body and is the sending dynamo
or energy that carries 'M y God’ to any place visioned in
law and truth.”
It therefore goes everywhere, and to any distance—
either forward or backward, for in truth, the " I A M ”
cannot have limitations. And inasmuch as all life is a
state of ceaseless motion— is the same as the sunlight, and
travels according to the vibration of the individual to the
sun’s rays.
The rate of motion is regulated by law and in physics
is 186,000 miles per second. Y et the action to the senses
is ever still or in a state of balance.
Everything has this balance in a more or less degree.
It is the balance that gives equilibrium. It has degree;
though most of the time still.
However Magnetic motion, and the power behind it—
is the method of contacting ethereal waves in the con­
sciousness of hearing the spoken word, anywhere upon the
plane and station uttered.
The same thing applies to the body mind and Soul.
128 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
There has to be a tuning in to have conscious communica­
tion. This is accomplished by concentration upon the
breaths as these register in the mind. So the application
is abstraction in mind adaptability to attain and maintain
an abstract understanding of the laws of vibration and
the forms of breath.
First, it is to accept a possibility and then prove them
in person. And inasmuch as there are four breaths besides
energy. The practice is to take these breaths according to
acceptance and note the effect upon both the mind and
body.
Motion breath is represented as blue and the highest
form of motion. Red and yellow follow and then a silvery
sheen, giving the prim ary colors— and the healing breaths.
Even more the breaths of growth.
To know them and to understand their effects upon
the body is to breathe them— while stilling the body by
love and the prayer of resolve.
It is in this state of stillness and waiting these breaths
are determined as to powers and force. They start with
controlling functions of the body and conclude as instant
servants of the brain in tuning in to a divine force. For
these breaths give an understanding of the magnetic sheath
upon which thought acts and through which the " I A M ”
comes abroad.
This is a "Presence” coming abroad, when the body is
free from emotional desire. It is the principle of being
quiet and of breath control with the " I A M ” giving the
"Presence” alike unto a benediction.
A ll can have this experience, because all, at some time,
are still and at peace. Still it comes abroad through dis­
cipline and restraint, and is active when the body is sur­
rendered with a directing force of vibration carrying to
any focus of vision.
A ll Masters speak of the "presence” even as God spoke
to Moses— during all his period of revelation. " I AM
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 129
T H A T I A M ,” meaning the master power or absolute
beyond which there is nothing more.
The "presence” being a part of the hidden and latent
man— has motion, or the breath of motion— as a means
of going to H im . He has the other breaths to still the
body and to rest it in surrender, while asking believing.
He has a method of stilling impulse in desire— and a
method of overcoming the sins of the body.
He has a method of resting from the worries of the
world, and of getting at peace to all men.
He has a method of taking the Breaths, so that there will
be freedom from all thought save one.
He has then the power of asking believing, and a con­
sciousness that an answer will be returned. And this is the
stilling process of getting one in vibration.
To become conscious is the building of the sheath to
recognize the difference in your attitude to others and
their attitude.
A magnetic body gives a drawing power in association.
It is the subtle indefinite plasma of the body coming
abroad in love that satisfies.
It is measured by culture, from the animal of a few
inches, to the Masters, of all the world— even touching the
infinite. So it is measured by control of mind, in the iso­
lation of breath.
And this in the silence of being alone, cultures the power
to go as the mind directs, to the limit of personal vibra­
tion. Remember, it is not breath that is limited; neither
is it the magnetic sheath, but is the power of thought ac­
tivity, and the consciousness of faith that comes through
the law of direction. And this is culture.
Personal magnetism is demonstrated in hypnosis, for
that gives the control of thought direction to another—
through the principle of putting the body to sleep.
It is something all should understand, for it is a tangible
method of getting things done.
130 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS
The principle is to vision and fix a thought effort, and
then ask believing and the thing is. N ot all the time, but
enough of it to show the method.
N ot all the time, because the other party to the contact
is not in vision or at one. Still the principle is in the fact
of things happening in work controls— that are not rea­
sonable.
H ynotic, and suggestive control is a simple outside
method of demonstrating magnetism.
N ow , remember, the earth supplies the substance of the
power. It does so by the eternal friction of traveling
around the Sun. This friction magnetizes certain ores
and has a center at or near the north pole. And this is
the magnetism of the earth, our electricity, wireless, and
inventions of the modern age. A ll because man has sought
for outward compliance and control. It is also man’s;
magnetic powers, and law of receiving.
It is also within, and is the means of inter-communica­
tion between one another. And this within is developed
by experiment, with the principles that accumulate elec­
tricity in the body the same as the earth gives magnetism.
The walking and running of childhood bring to the
body the substance of electric vitality. Harmonious rela­
tionship develop it, and love is the sustainer of it.
That is peace to all men and generous, kindly and heart
way disposition. N ow turn this into the mind way and
be sure of fact for facts sake, and the dynamo of the
human is prepared to pick up the unknown and make it
known. A ll of which is hidden from man— until prac­
ticed.
It is cultivated and enlarged by good feeling, happiness,
generosity and benevolence; and stays in abundance as
long as used in the service of others.
O f course the body is subject to age and it will cease
to function in body effort, but after the body has finish­
ed, the mind goes on. Then the Soul, is a promise of im ­
mortality.
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS 131
It is contacted in another by breathing with them and
getting in their mood of thought, as well as social position
for the moment, then bringing all back to blankness and
personal breathing and feeding thought, for the magnetic
sheath to any who ask believing.
For every thought of whatever character is carried upon
an etheric wave— generated from one to another.
If fearful and weak it ceases to function— and never
functions beyond the power of the sender.
The world calls the Magnetic body personality; and it
is all that and more, for it is that something that animates
the body, gives poise to the mind, and makes messages
of thought personal, joyous and happy.
The child romps for vitality and magnetism. The young
seek the same thing in parties, dances and love associa­
tion. The mature, live in it, through marriage, and social
and business association.
So it is a law to get this wonderful something from the
earth, association and love.
It is upon the earth in abundance and comes to every
one according to station and work.
The being free and alone, then is Isolation of brain
blanking, while following hidden and latent rule, and is
the best avenue of having the stored-up power— to know
within is the everlasting " I A M ,” to do all things well.
Hatha Yoga makes this a mind power without the heart
yearnings. And gives it power that is austere, harsh and
grasping. And that is the selfish way of caste and race,
that have progressed beyond their fellows.
It is usually limited to powers of mind. So there is al­
ways a choosing; and always a way to gain life’s end. It
is material even though cultural.
It is the choosing that is important, for this gives direc­
tion. One leads to death— and the other to life immortal.
N ow choose.
And remember always, while all have a magnetic per-
132 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM 1 LESSONS
sonality, the individual personality is in accord to that
known of law— in the Silence— and the calling the "I
A M ” into action.
It can be cultivated in to bloom, so every one can have
for themselves all they use— no more, no less. For it is
based upon a giving power.
Thus, always love is at the A ltar. Cleanliness a personal
asset. Appearance and poise at home; character, right liv­
ing and tolerance or charity to all, is the beaten path of all
Masters.
Above all, magnetism is the Sheath body— that is, the
messenger from one person to all the world. It is a mes­
senger that carries both good and evil.
However, it is cultivated by keeping the mind and
heart free from evil thought; from thoughts of discour­
agement and from failures and mistakes, because these be­
long to the earth, and die with the body. The man who
masters them is on the path to that righteousness— that
can have no failure.
It is a blanking stilling state of mind, that brings con­
sciousness to bear upon the object with breath as a force.
Then it calls upon the " I A M ” in the power of doing.
The " I A M ” is the messenger of the magnetic— in all
distance thought when the focus is that way.
Thus the very abstraction of Breath brings all distance
within focus, and then God is always present. The dis­
tance always present and the " I A M ” always aboard and
doing.
Remember cultivation is in Silence, practicing breath
and being abstract.
So to practice the breaths, is to create efficiency in ab­
stract thinking, that there may be an actual separation of
the four healing breaths— within the body— and a knowl­
edge of them in effect.
The experience of them as healing forces, also suggest
the method of raising the body to a higher state of culture
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS 133
and of devotion to the Supreme.
It is this latter that is all important. Im portant because
through devotion and pondering, the body part is realized,
to be related to the all— in breath, and is a part o f the life
wave and therefore has a basis in breathing, according to
the rate light travels.
N ot that breathing comes into the body at the rate of
light waves, but that it in substance, is the same and the
breath is because of the body being tuned into a lower rate
of existence.
This is measured by the breath rate and the body re­
sponse to it. The heart action is 78 and the breath rate
19, while the heat is about 98 degree; and these are all
normal actions of the body in health.
There is a vast difference between this slower rate of
the body and the universal light wave; but there must be,
and is a connection. The connection is in the fact life
comes into the body through breath, and therefore breath
is the opening doorway to the hidden relationship between
man and the All.
Therefore the study of breath and the feeling within,
there is a body that interstices the physical part— with an
ever active flow of the magnetism of the earth— and sun
rays; and this part is within the body as something known
by the very action of breath and the force of thought
transmission. The one 19 per minute; the other 186,000
miles per second.
It will be recognized, that to think of a thing, or place,
is to be in thought in the instant; and this indicates the
body has the same motion as that generated by the Sun or
light.
Meditation upon— brings the fact of body change ac­
cording to thought. That it does change is evident in the
difference in people— of culture and ignorance.
The difference is in the body, making it finer in tecture
134 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM 1 LESSONS
and in thought, making it more expressive and in the voice
giving modulation.
Indeed, refinement is noticable everywhere; even in
physical culture. H ow much more must it be when phy­
sical limitations are taken away from the body, by giving
it God powers, and a God resident o f the " I A M .”
And that is what abstraction in subconscious does.
Abstraction in the Silence fixes these principles, and
also the desire to demonstrate them. So now is added to
the other factors, the law of Vibration to carry the mes­
sage of the " I A M ” from this body to any other body any­
where, with a message of harmony and good will.
If it were not for this carrying power— of ethereal
waves, there could not have been a wireless invention to
transmit or a radio to receive.
The same law holds good in the body and mind of man.
The very evidence of thought activity prove it, and so
the possibility of transmission is in connecting the God
principle, so the " I A M ” can and does respond to "the
Call” .
Therefore, the necessity of setting up in theory, a send­
ing and receiving set of rules by which the " I A M ” can
and does give relief to the distressed, afflicted and sick,
wherever the mind directs.
N aturally the idea is that with God all things are possi­
ble, and that this sending and receiving is just the wish
therefor.
It is not, for one part of the practice is in sending, that
is always a positive action.
The other part is always a receiving influence, and the
attitude of the receiver must be negative.
The positive part is after the laws of calling upon the
" I A M ” to come abroad in personal affairs has been made
effective in practice. And this is in practicing in the Si­
lence; the Breaths, and other principles of the Subcon-
ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 135
scious, until the body "Clicks in,” and feels the Spirit of
God upon it, when the " I A M ” comes abroad.
This is the feeling that has been perfected in personal
contacts either in harmony or disease. It is now to be di­
rected to distance and therefore becomes a sending force.
The principle is the same as the personal in all things;
save in contacting the patient. And that is in vibration
being so instant, that the thought and fixing it upon them,
brings them and their trouble into the "Presence,” and so
for that part, there is no distance.
N ot so for the body, for its vision is limited, so the
sending has not localized vision, or a return message. It is
silent alone, and the part God does not give objective in­
formation.
It is in practicing the principle and calling upon the " I
A M ” and in using breath to make the practice stick.
Call upon the " I A M ” in a thousand different ways but
always when abstract and devotional.
Call upon it to come abroad and charge the magnetic
body with the power of doing nothing mortal can hinder.
For the " I A M ” is always right, always goes, and is always
abundant.
It brings the message of banished fear and doubt. Its
presence does that. Then it is caught up with the thought
effort of the magnetic body, and goes on a message of
health anywhere, or at any distance.
This is not a theory so much as a practice. It is the
same formula of dropping the things of the world, in ab­
straction and then "Clicking in” and calling. The " I
A M ” come forth, and there is healing.
That is the proof of the work in healing and straighten­
ing out the crooked places.
It is a proof of the silent prayer, and of absent treat­
ment. Indeed, making all things present, by the instant
action of thought— that carries this message of power.
A fter knowing the principles of approach to the " I
136 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
A M ,” test these things, by fixing times for the absent
treatment to effect another.
Give these times the "R est periods” or meeting times
with God.
Send the message and the messenger, and have faith in
the results.
Do not expect to be both a sender and a receiver at the
same time. Remember, there is nothing out of order, be­
cause there is not also a seeing and receiving of the message
from the Messenger sent.
There must be a different action involked to receive.
The sending is positive and the receiving is negative.
It is just the same as rest periods, entered by the patient.
Or the time given to the silence, when these laws are re­
vealed.
So there is not physical seeing, mind seeing or Soul see­
ing. There is the messenger— and doing.
The work done will in time give the assurance of it does
without the wish to percieve.
The field is broader than just healing, for it is an ac­
ceptable doctrine, because "the Spirit of God is upon
me.” Then is the time when the laws of Vibration and
magnetism are given to the world in gifts according to
development that include "asking and receiving.” These
cure inharmony.
N aturally there is inharmony, for the world is sick in
body, mind and Soul. Sick because of law violation. For
were it not so, there would be heaven here and now.
Practice is the law of understanding, for it is demon­
strating principles by which the " I A M ” comes through.
It is not to just believe, without doing, for practice means
to be a trained individual upon the road to God.
Remember the surprise of the Disciple in the fact D is­
ease responded to them, when they asked in the Masters
name.
This is common now, for everyone in the flush of new
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 137
experience is surprised. Be not so, but go on to practical
practice of law that makes response universal— and cure
natural.
Remember it is natural for all to think prayer greater
than circumstance; so prayer is involked for the absent
and those not known. There is scarcely ever response,
and so a belief, prayer, is a failing thing.
Prayer is never a failure, but the methods of approach
can well be. So remember, the going into the Silence is
by recognized law that varies neither one w ay or the other.
The Silent and absent processes of prayer are through
vibration— that must have an object and this object is in
a mind picture— of the part or thing— and that brings the
disciple to a study of Vision.
I AMI
C h apter X IV
[L e sso n 11]
B R O T H E R H O O D — C A T E C H ISM .
Question. "W hat is the vocation of Discipleship?”
Answer. "It is to follow and demonstrate the prin­
ciples taught. These are in any vocation or profession.
For there is but one spirit in all; though many gifts.”
Ques. "W hat is meant by 'G ifts’ ?”
Ans. "G ifts are the evidence of what one can do best.
Some are gifted with one profession and others with dif­
ferent professions or vocations. D ifferent vocations is
what is meant by gifts. So in being Disciple is to do ac­
cording to gifts. The spirit is to help the already appar­
ent.”
Ques. "W hat is the method of this union of Spirit and
body vocation?”
Ans. "It is the same as in all prayer, for the Spirit is
always the same. Thus the energy of the 'I A M ,’ comes
to and through the body by the same process always.
"It is clicking in when receptive, that may be long or
short, according to the individual progress in prayer.”
Ques. "Is it always necessary to have this clicking in?”
Ans. "It is always necessary, otherwise there would not
be a change in personality or an atonement with the
spirit.
"N o one can do these things alone, and so the God pres­
ence is to have the 'I A M ’ active and it is always necessary
to be negative— to be responsive to the Spirit, that it may
come through. However, there can be a confidence,
from usage that is seemingly the same. That is the same
[138]
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS 139
save it has not the all power to do in emergency.”
Ques. "Is there something else besides this clicking in
and the 'I A M ’ ?”
Ans. "Yes, the energy of the 'I A M ’ in the effective­
ness of cure or in work. There must be physical harmony
and mental sureness.
"This is the result of the Peace treatment. A treatment
of breaths of getting in harmony to the thing. In a
patient is in stilling fear and doubt, and in work seeing
the thing completed as a whole in mind— before the start.
"It is called confidence.”
Ques. "W hat are the methods used to bring about the
peace treatments?”
Ans. "In patients, it is getting at one with them in
breath, vibration and social life. In work, it is in being
at one in the mechanics of the thing, and having atone­
ment the same as with a patient.
"A gain there must be constant and regular prayer
periods to receive. These are taken at night and in the
morning before active work.
"Prayer periods are not asking periods— for the purpose
of work— but a period of meditation in which the 'I A M ’
become intimate with the body and mind force.
"Then in work its coming forth is active, because of
training.”
Ques. "Is this what is meant by discipleship?”
Ans. "Discipleship is meant to be a follower of things
taught. In this respect in following the teaching o f those
gone before— it is to know the rules of growth, and prac­
ticing— put them to the test of actual doing.”
Ques. "W hat are some of the things the Disciple en­
ters into as a study and practice?”
Ans. "T he advance in uncovering the hidden and la­
tent in prayer is progressive. That is, all does not come at
once or when first conceived to be true.
" A disciple may conceive the possibility of an ethereal
140 ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
or magnetic body without proof or the manner of putting
to test the conception.
"The Magnetic body being ethereal or the motion of
life between the cells of the body, as well as the carrier of
thought message, has to be dwelled upon until it becomes
a fixed acceptance.
"Then the practice of thought actions necessary to this
body must be demonstrated. Thus Sunshine, romping and
outside life to the child gives this vitality. Demonstrate
it.
"Association, Sunshine, parties, and especially associa­
tion with the opposite sex gives bloom of the magnetic
personage. As noted in people in love. Especially the
young.
"Love being a part of magnetism, it is taken as a gift
at the A ltar and developed into active expression.
"This Silence of love at the A ltar is the beginning of
power. The power of the body as a dynamo of thought
and body force. A ll demonstrable.”
Ques. "Then we presume you believe Magnetism can
be developed by everyone?”
Ans. "Yes, by everyone according to their station and
efficiency.
"T he body form is always the same, and means to be
in harmony to conditions. Educationally, it is developed
through thought development, and this is fixed in medi­
tation.
"Spiritually, it is an acceptance and belief in the 'I
A M ’.
"A ll are developed in the Silence and through prayer.”
Ques. "W hat is meant by sending thought?”
Ans. "Sending thought is the means of communica­
tion between one person and all others. First, it is per­
sonal and then it is accomplished upon the waves of vibra­
tion; and this is propelled through the body energy.
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS 141
“ The body thus acting as a sending force according to
its energy and development in thought.”
Ones. “ H ow is the body developed to be a dynamo of
sending energy?”
Ans. "B y understanding Light is the basis o f motion
and that it travels at the rate of 186,000 miles per second.
That is from the Sun to the earth, as the earth travels
around the Sun. This going around the sun and being
ever still— is the basis o f energy.
“ In the body there is the same potential motion, for the
light waves of the sun come in and go out upon the waves
of breath. This is at the rate of about 19 per minute.
The heart action is about 78 and the temperature of both
about 98 degrees.
"So this is what the Sun or light motion does to the
body.
"The body assumes this light as a working power and
from this basis— gives energy.”
Ques. “ H ow ?”
Ans. "B y developing— as all things are; through the
silence of meditation, and being at one in this Silence—
with the laws that govern the universe.
"This is in breathing normally, being at peace; and in
understanding— the part that really does things in thought,
is the motion of the Magnetic body that has the same
transmitting rate that light as the Sun and therefore is in­
stant— if the mind powers can focus thought, so that it is
sent.”
Ques. "Then thought is the energy of mental develop­
ment, as well as the body?”
Ans. "Y es; that is the law. N o one can focus thought
upon the unknown, and so there is a reason for culture in
all things, mental and material as well as Spiritual.
"Even in the body, the more known of the structure—
the easier and more effective is thought directed therein.
142 ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
Though all bodies have potentially the power of absorbing
thought in direct contacts.
"H ow ever the laws of vibration are according to cul­
ture— the more known the greater the power.
"A lso when the body is vital, it is a greater sending
force. So that both culture and health or vitality are es­
sential to sending.”
Ones. "Does not this make the Spirit limited to the
body vitality?”
Ans. "Yes, in a sense it does. The vital body life of
the body lasts until about sixty years. Its force has reach­
ed its highest state at about forty, where it stays for about
twenty years.
"Physical effort of work should be concluded within
this period. But, when the Disciple lives according to law,
this same plan of Vibration in the Silences, is gradually
changing the plane of thought and soul activity, to the
Spirit, wherein there is no death. It is the body that dies,
and it alone ceases in effort. This should be, and is ac­
cording to plan.”
Ques. "Then, what should a Disciple seek in the rest
periods aside from the ordinary fulfilling prayer?”
Ans. "H e should understand that the development of
Vibration comes after the principle of peace and personal
contact, and that there is no w ay of tuning the body and
mind into higher state of motion, save through devotion
to the Supreme Soul and educational culture. So one
should go with the other in all things.
"H e should seek to make the whole of prayer periods
effective in the 'I A M .’ And this is always by the rote and
rule of prayer.
"There is nothing to be put in or left out— but the e f­
fectiveness is gauged always through devotion.”
Ques. "W hat did Christ say about the effectiveness of
prayer.”
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 143
Ans. "H e said to His disciples, when they failed to give
relief to the dumb child: 'This kind is by much prayer
and fasting,’ and that is the law now.
"Failure is because of lack in prayer and fasting— and
in the assumption of desirous or impossible things.”
Ones. "H ow is this practice fixed in the mind o f the
Disciple: that is, that prayer has degrees o f efficiency,
and healing or doing is the result of study?”
Ans. "B y the very fact, that Concentration of prayer
is raised from the body to the mind in the consideration
of things abstract.”
Qjies. "W hat is this called; In truth and fact?”
Ans. "M ind abstraction, or thinking o f motion and
the effect of thought as a principle, and not as a personal
feeling.
"Its name is Hatha Yoga, and is a form o f isolation
practiced by all people in the solving of difficult physical
problems. In religion it is taking away the influences of
personal feeling.”
Ques. "Is there a further development in Disciple-
ship?”
Ans. "Yes, there is that, that dwells upon the Soul in
relation to God and is called supreme devotion. It is a
state of surrendering the body entirely as did Christ— at
the time of His death.
"In this state when complete there is a consciousness of
being atone with anything needed and the very wish for a
thing is sufficient for it.
"This is Jnana-yajna. It is the practice of adepts and
Masters.”
Ques. "W hat is the way of progress of Discipleship?”
Ans. "It is to make suitable progress in the work
previous and by demonstration being willing and ready to
be tried again. It is adding to that which has already
been accomplished.”
Ques. "Then what is the correct attitude of the Dis-
144 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
ciple, toward the Spirit?”
Ans. "It is that the Spirit will come abroad in the dif­
ferent manifestations according to growth.
" It is to remember the Spirit is the same as 'The Father
W ithin’.
" It is to remember the body does not do these things.
It is always the Spirit, or 'I A M ’, coming through that
does them.
"A n d the 'I A M ’ comes according to development.
"Y e t all men have God first and then the body. For all
are living in a body. Coming though of the Spirit is the
act of stilling thought, and this in the abstract takes much
fasting and prayer.”
Ques. "W h y does the Great W hite Brotherhood stress
these different states of mind and body, and w hy cannot
they all be experienced at the same time?”
Ans. "Because the fixing of principles is alike to edu­
cation. One is natural to the other. The Brotherhood
is organized so that these principles will be a rote. That
is, they follow and obey laws of the Brotherhood and fix
the principles by compelling Disciples to memorize the
Catechism that all may answer alike and all know by ex­
perience alike.
"It is not a question of pass words or degree signs but
of doing. In this all are alike, because all have mastered
the same things.”
Ques. "H ow many degrees of development are there
in Discipleship?”
Ans. "There are fourteen in the beginning, but Dis­
cipleship is a following, and therefore goes into all the
degrees in doing as 'one who is sent’.
"T he real and active degrees are from fourteen to
twenty-eight, inclusive.”
Ques. "W hat is the growth between the degrees of
Probation and Discipleship?”
Ans. "T he evidence in growth is in Inspiration, or the
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 145
intuitive perception of the w ay and law, to do a thing that
is beyond reason for it just is.
"It means there is a power within that as a resident
force, 'Speaks with authority’.
"It is that something that knows, and which is called
the 'I A M ’.”
Ques. "C an this inspired force be remembered and the
law of doing understood?”
Ans. "Yes, that is the reason for training the body.
For the training gives higher rates of Vibration.
"D oing according to Inspiration is always objective, and
of course that can be remembered.
"Indeed, that is the revelation of all discoveries whether
religious or otherwise, that comes through the subcon­
scious.”
Ques. "In practice, what is the plan to lay the body
down, in order to be an inspired person.”
Ans. "The Practice is that of prayer and afterwards
be in a quizzing need. This intensifies the nerve cells of
the brain, and in the silence the Inspiration comes to do.
It is indeed intense asking and believing.”
I AMI
C h apter X V
[L e sso n 12]
V ISIO N T H E PO W ER OF T H E SO U L
W hy do you say " I will take care of you; and why give
patients rest periods, or times of silence, apart and separate
for them.”
"This is different from the 'Prayers of Silence’ in the
morning and evening that are given as the w ay to develop
the 'I A M ’ within the heart and mind of A ll men. Is it
not?”
Yes; it is different, or the active part of the first. For
this is when prayer has been put into action. And is the
basis of a most wonderful truth.
The truth of God being present and at home with every
individual of every race with no exception.
Thus when one "W ho knows” says to another who asks,
" I will take care of you,” it means that he is in visual touch
or in vision with the God principle at the time of prayer
for relief or trouble, of the one asking.
Vision is not a picture, of a person or thing, but one of
God as " I A M ” , present anywhere that is directed by the
mind to do the will of God.
This picture is beyond the confines of body, above
the body, and a messenger of the universal principle. It
is this Vision of God, that is lost sight of, in the expression
of " I will take care of you,” yet is so self evident, there
could be no healing without its presence.
The "Presence” coming abroad, to cure and heal, is God
realization. And that is the beginning of Apostolic pow­
ers. N ot all power, but the individual has the light, to go
toward.
[146]
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 147
Vision is in having this picture of God presence, and so
is the process of repeating M antra’s, until there is an in­
stant awareness and power to do.
Then follows a correct picture in the mind of the ob­
ject of contemplation; whether that contact is in healing
or in correcting some social, business, professional, or other
trouble.
The focus must be perfect, for the camera of the mind
will not record unless it is. So this part of the picture is
second only, in importance, to the " I A M ” coming abroad.
The " I A M ” is not in sending the message, but in being
there, to do the will of the sender, as God would if He
were present.
It is the Spirit connecting all human life, in the only
way possible; i.e., Love. A love that cures all evil.
The next step is in personal vision of fact. W hat is
the matter with you? "A n d what is it you wish; is it right
and law, or some especial privilege?” A ll right things are
subject to prayer and law. A ll wrong things must be
discriminated against.
Surely, no one would wish God to do that which is
wrong!
N ow , while fixing the " I A M ” of God within, to help
another, there must be a separating of thought force. For
the body of itself can do nothing, and so it must be " I A M ”
that does the work. And it can do so, only when visioned
as present and a part of the invisible, coming abroad in
works.
So the necessity of knowing the object of doing, the
trouble, disease or condition of affairs, to give the infinite
that something, that adding form , produces results of a
physical character.
The thing coming abroad is the mystical body, or that
which the church names, the H oly Ghost.
N ow while fixing the " I A M ” as the mystical body,
drop the objective picture-form ing-the-body side of the
148 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM 1 LESSONS
equation; for one of these must be laid down, to have the
other. So the body must be surrendered to the divine.
When there is neglect or confusion, the picture of vision
is dim or lost. So separateness or laying down the body is
very important, as a practice in " I will take care of you” .
Vision of a physical character must not be confused
with the Spiritual. It is, of course, the mental picture
after the mystical body, but it must be after. Thus the
three kinds of vision are after the first. The first is per­
sonal seeing or visual sight, and this naturally is an act of
personal contact, but remember the " I A M ” is before.
The second vision is that of mind that pictures indi­
viduals seen before at any distance or place and sees them
as they were when contacted personally.
In as much as this may be years later, older people are
visioned as in childhood, if that was the time of acquaint­
ance. For always it is the outer picture of the Soul that
is visioned when perceiving another at a distance.
This, indeed, has nothing to do with the function of
true vision, save that it places the body responsive to the
Soul. Then vision fixes vibration and the " I A M ” does
the work.
The third vision is that which is the result of revelation.
This is a fixing of "Presence” and a wonderful acceptation
of God caring for His children, and they becoming ac­
quainted with H im through Prayer.
To make prayer important is the difficult part for most
believers. Their body usually carries on with satisfaction
and so do not give time to preparation that makes prayer
effective.
God is taken as an unwise Father, granting favors in
times of stress, when that very fact would be a violation
of law.
For this reason, there must be an adherence to principles
of approach in prayer. A n approach always the same,
ALTRUR1AN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 149
and when fixed in demonstrable in the response to instant
asking.
In the approach is the A ffirm ation of belief asking time
after time for the " I A M ” to come abroad. It is a fixing
of the body so that H e can and making it a home so H e
will abide.
Belief must be fixed so that it will not waver through
the egotism of the body. Its treasures must be on the God
side always.
So prayer is instant in action and service because of
fixedness to law. N ot the least of which is Vision and the
know of the law of vibration, when there is correct ask­
ing from a correct preparation in getting ready to fu n c­
tion as a believing individual.
The Master speaks of the “ I A M ” as the Father within.
H e applies it as a power hidden and latent.
It comes abroad in the mind’s eye and in vision sees
accomplishment without regard to place or distance. In
fact it is accomplished with God and with H im there is no
distance.
Y et Vision starts objectively as do all other principles;
and is cultivated through body surrender of visual seeing.
In this it is more difficult than the acts preparatory to
prayer; for it is putting down that which is ordinary sight
and taking up the power behind sight. In fact and truth
it is a vision of the unseen coming abroad. So much so
that it creates by the power of it all the seen.
Thus Vision does not see disease, face or form. M ove­
ments of body, places of abode or living conditions that
are objective. N o, these are laid down and put in their
place is the substance or essence that brings them forth.
It is the essence before birth.
And this is what prayer is for, to see this essence and the
effect of it upon objective life. Then if there is inhar­
mony, to correct the vibration of it. And that is the
" I A M ” coming abroad.
150 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS
Always it is a mental seeing, when it is not personal.
And then it becomes meditative and abstract and a seeing
without modifications. Y et there remains the activity of
the mind which is objective and always says, " I see” . That
is the reason for physical recounting of vision.
Surely it helps and fixes the idea to have a likeness of
the person treated or the condition to be removed, for that
is the physical w ay of connecting with the real vision that
does things.
So it is natural to ask the " I A M ” to do things, and to
have accomplishment without seeing or knowing objec­
tively. And it is also natural to say, " I see and I know” .
For the body clothes all the acts of the spirit in form and
forgets the substance from which they came. It is the
forgetting that make all objective thinkers think there is
something doing not aboveboard.
It is natural for the " I A M ” to do things, for it is the
everlasting presence of God, guiding mankind back and
into heaven. The heaven of here and now, as well as the
heaven of everlasting life.
The next part is the "Presence” . It brings the picture
home to the seeing eye, and then is the revelation of things
done, and a feeling of alrightness; of something accom­
plished and of being present. Thus follows recounting.
But recounting is not vision.
The practices enjoined by prayer, for the purpose of
body preparation in expressing spirit are of course the
beaten path to atonement with the " I A M ” and so he
begins to feel the power of God can be used everywhere;
the same as personally.
God is everywhere, but the Disciple is not, neither is
the mind or Soul trained to distance, unless there is a fol­
lowing of the law. This law is alike to a two-edged sword
and varies not. So the principle of the essence in which
objective sight is laid down becomes imperative as a rule.
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 151
The silence then is the place to lay ob jectivity upon the
A ltar, before asking believing.
The silence thus acts as the m eeting place o f that w hich
is the body and m anifest and that other thing w ithin the
body not m anifest, but is indeed the creator o f the body.
The pow er seems to be all conclusive but is alw ays law
and so the devotee learns the lim itations o f law are desires
w ithin the body w anting special privileges.
The power o f seeing at a distance as if the distance were
present is one. The pow er o f ordering God around is an­
other and the feeling o f especial privilege is another.
A m ong them all is the idea o f the perpetuity o f body fu n c­
tion is the greatest. For this is the result o f ignorance and
egotism, combined w ith other weaknesses o f the flesh.
So there is need o f more light and a continuousness of
"P rayer Periods” in w hich the silence is entered to be at
the feet o f a Master, who w ill show the w ay through sim ­
ple observances and continuation o f rests until there is a
habit o f taking everything to God in devotion and in ask­
ing believing.
A sking and believing is the rite o f prayer that never
changes, though more and more is understood o f the God
principles w ithin and the lim itations o f the body in these
things.
N o Disciple confuses the tw o forces; fo r one is to die
and the other has everlasting life. T o arrive and know
is the method of progress, and this is follow ed by the
G reat W hite Brotherhood by degrees showing efficiency.
First, The degrees o f probation, carrying the body and
discipline of it through the emotional part o f life and h av­
ing fourteen degrees. These degrees are w orked fo r and
are in their nature progressive.
T h ey have to do w ith the m oral code, and a fixin g in
belief of God w ithin and everywhere.
Second, the degrees of Discipleship are those o f putting
152 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
to use the degrees of Probation in actual w ork o f living
principles.
Beginning w ith a belief in God and H is presence within
they concern the affirm ation o f God being present in all
things when the m ind and body are right.
The Disciple then is a follow er o f a M aster in that the
things belonging to A postacy and M astery are a part of
every day expectation and the result o f doing "w o rk s” .
These degrees are the only ones having a ritual o f initia­
tion, a form o f application and an obligation. A ll others
before and after are grow th and realization.
Third, the degrees o f Apostleship are those follow ing
Discipleship w ith increased power and greater efficien cy
in w ork. These are divided into three forces o f effort,
the first being to "T each it to all the w orld” . The second
is to demonstrate teaching in healing and in straightening
out the crooked places, and the third is in self-develop­
ment tow ard a body regeneration, wherein the old body
is laid down and another and better taken to use in its
place.
Some call this the A stral, but it is really Creation o f a
new body b y the same principle b y w hich all is created,
the spoken "W o rd ” .
The degree o f M aster is the last and is conferred by the
G reat W hite Brotherhood as an evidence o f all those who
have so mastered the body and environm ent that they can
meet w ith one another in freedom from the body, and so
are in a self-created body.
These Brothers are the messengers o f G od to the race,
giving message and direction from H im through all the
various unfoldm ents o f the Soul o f man.
The degree o f M aster means the creation o f things are
from w ithin, and so the very body o f the M aster is made
over in and through the Spirit. N o t that the body is d if­
ferent from the one of earth, save that its vibration is d if­
ferent and the Vision of it is the same as "Presence” any-
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 153
where and everyw here. H ow ever, it is alw ays freed from
mental deposits, that have afflicted the race o f men from
the very beginning.
It is a free state. Free from the influences o f the w orld
and yet is so taken up w ith the w orld thought these M as­
ters are constantly m eeting and shaping thought so the
race w ill be better and better in its association o f brother­
hood.
Sometimes these Brothers send an active or com m and
thought across the border, fo r some one suited to do great
w ork in rebuilding shattered conditions. Thus are born
Patriots and Statesmen that stand above their fellow s be­
cause o f the D ivine in them responding to the call.
A command appearance is alike to that o f H ypnotism
wherein one personality is laid down fo r another to take
its place. It is natural and progressive, fo r the individual
lives the life.
Masters are men who travel w ithout the burden o f the
body. T h ey travel by vibration and in Vision. So w ith
them space is annihialated.
T h eir:s is a definite association w ith thought from the
center o f things. A nd their’s the duty and pleasure to
transm it to a sin-sick world direction aw ay from the body
by the slow processes o f evolution.
It is measured by ages, cycles and aeons of time, and so
man contem plating m ust be patient. For he also is on the
road.
Masters have the power o f creating a body and so to that
extent are tangible to all m ankind. T h ey also have a
birth body, they have learned to lay down in service and
duty to others.
This body is the one the neophite has to do w ith in his
first studies in subjection; know n as hypnotic. From that
time on, the progress is more rapid, because o f the know l­
edge within is an intangible body that connects w ith mas­
ter powers.
154 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS
The progress is according to usage and the form ula of
the principles o f prayer. These principles never varying,
though alw ays o f greater force as the body surrenders its
force.
Then the other body goes through m any experiences
including perception o f things hidden until at last it is at
the open doorw ay o f the Soul, and sees or perceives there is
a life beyond the physical even a heaven after death.
A ll of w hich belongs to grow th and a pondering upon
powers o f God w ithin man. A ll o f w hich is in the unity
o f things. T h at is the reason fo r prayer to have a process
o f being at one w ith the divine while holding the material
in law.
A ll law is sweet and wholesome, fo r it is going aright
and toward fu lfillm ent. M an begins w ith prayer o f a
meager nature answered and then believes in greater things
finds these too are answered and so he goes from the sim­
ple asking o f getting right w ith law in the body; curing
disease to the m ightier things o f being free from the body.
In this are m any illusions caused by the ego w anting to
claim gifts as its ow n and m any failures also that con­
fuse and sometimes stop; still life goes on until there comes
a time when separation from the body is an experienced
fact.
There comes a time when the " I A M ” is real and always
a fact.
There comes a time when there is association w ith other
beings the same in grow th, and thus man enters into Soul
life and that o f Mastership.
It is all a stilling o f the impulses o f the body and a con­
trol o f desire.
A ll potentially in the body are the same. A ll are beset
w ith sin and the desire of indulgence and in this sense all
are alike. The difference is that time when the definite
step is taken tow ard control and freedom . W hen love is
at the A ltar and out yonder is visioned a freed Soul.
wmam
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 155
It is a great and glorious m om ent, fo r though it is not
finished the start is made and the D isciple in on the road.
Thus is given the practical w ay o f using principles that
have been proven.
There is no doubt about the principle o f the L O V E g ift
at the A ltar.
N o doubt about having resolve, intent and anticipation
as urges o f body doing.
N o doubt about contem plation and o f paying debts.
N o doubt o f M editating upon God and o f calling the
" I A M ” to come abroad.
N o doubt o f the " I A M ” being that something that
heals the sick o f all m anner o f diseases and sicknesses.
Therefore no doubt o f asking believing and having an
answer returned.
So also there is no doubt o f any o f the phenomenal
things given or the possibility o f the Soul being know n
here and now.
There is always a teacher in the inner consciousness,
and always an evidence in w ork done.
The teaching is always free and given w ithout restric­
tion, but the receiver m ust give a suitable return. For
freely it has been given and so free must be the return.
G ive and it shall be returned to you pressed down and
heaping over. "A lw ay s m ay God bless you .”
I AMI
C h a pter X V I
[ L e ss o n 13]
B R O T H E R H O O D C A T E C H IS M
Question. "W hat are the two most difficult principles
in prayer?”
Answer. "A n understanding of Vibration and the way
it is applied to thought transmission; and Vision or what
the individual is expected to see.”
Ques. ” 'W hat is the d ifficu lty in V ibration ?”
Ans. "T h e fact the body m ust be still and in harm ony
to the thing wanted. Then the further fact o f light trav­
eling at the rate o f 186,000 miles per second, seems to be
out o f all proportion to body activity .”
Ques. "H o w is this accounted fo r?”
Ans. "It is because the body is a form within itself
and has a body vibration according to the method of
breath that gives body life. This breath regulates the
heart action and the flow of blood from the heart; and
that of all the rest of the system. These give to the body
a heat rate of 97 and 7 /10 degrees when normal.
"T h is is body regulation, but not body activity in mind,
fo r thought is like unto light, instant or almost instant in
transmission.
"T o make this available one has to make the body into
harm ony w ith the Spirit and does so in the Silence.
"T h e silence is in fixin g thoughts to be instant in action
w ithout m odification. T h at is, w ithout other thought
being a part o f vision.”
Ques. "W hat the second part of vibration hard to un­
derstand?”
Ans. "T h a t part that carries thought to any distance
[156]
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 157
instantly, provided the mind has vision. Vision m eaning
knowledge o f the place, time, thing or person.
"T h is confounds the individual in that all think o f
God as O m nipotent, and so possible o f carrying the mind
anywhere or to do anything. It is givin g pow er to the
A lm igh ty instead o f increasing the power o f the person.
"T h is latter must be, fo r the form er is already o f all
power.
"S o the universal conception is on the w rong end of
power. The whole o f V ibration and Vision is to bring the
body up to an understanding and use o f the G od p rin ­
ciple.”
Ques. "T h en tru ly, w hat is meant by vision?”
Ans. " I t is alw ays sim ple; for it is a picture o f the
thing seen. A nd is divided fo r convenience into tw o
planes; one physical and the other m ental. These follow
into Soul, the latter being called revelation.”
Ques. "W h at is meant by R evelation?”
Ans. " I t is that form o f knowledge— com ing from
pondering in the Silence, and in m editating upon the pos­
sibilities o f God com ing abroad in acts, or in inform ation.
It is called revelation, fo r it comes w ithout reason, as
something instantly perceived.
"M oses is made to speak to God, and that is the basis in
revelation, o f the first five books in the Bible.
" It is brought forth in these books, that there is an in ti­
mate relation between the personal m an and the 'I A M ’
o f God within man.
" I t is this 'I A M ’ that is the master power in Revelation.
It comes upon one in the Silence, when the individual is
alone, and asking believing.”
Ques. "A re there evidences o f other revealing in H o ly
W ritin g and especially the N ew Testam ent?”
Ans. "Y es, in all H o ly W ritin g and in the N ew Testa­
ment. In Christ healing the C enturian’s servant. In see­
ing Lazarus dying and buried. In the com m unication o f
158 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD 1 AM I LESSONS
Peter, and o f Cornelius. A nd in Paul seeing Christ in the
sky. So that the evidence is com plete w ithin, and out of
the body. It is indeed the basis o f 'great w o rk ’.”
Ques. "T h en w h y is Vision so universally denied by
the church?”
Am. “ It is denied because the form o f worship and
expectations have been changed from the C hrist assertion
o f the Kingdom o f heaven being here, to a system o f pun­
ishment and promises.
Ques. "Is punishm ent and promises tru e?”
Ans. "Y es, both are true, in that one gets a just re­
w ard fo r labor done, and peace fo r righteous action.
N either are true as a natural religious philosophy.”
Ques. "W h y ? ”
Ans. "Because the idea o f a 'Presence’ is disbelieved,
and caste and creed are practiced. Even when it is known
there is no poverty, sickness and death in the Kingdom of
H eaven.
"T h e teaching o f traditional religion has given to the
w orld its materialism and worship o f form .
" I t can be cured only by V ibration and Vision bringing
the Kingdom o f H eaven here.”
Ques. "W h at is required to attain V ision?”
Am. "T o follow prayer to its natural conclusion, pon­
dering upon the power o f God, and the 'I A M ’ com ing
abroad, until it actually does.
"T h en by fixin g the mind upon concrete things—
change them into righteousness.
"These are the acts o f the day that do not harmonize
in love action.
Then Vision sickness, and by righteous thought, send
the healing breaths to heal or cure.
"T o see poverty and unrighteous action, and vision a
state free. Sending vibrations o f correct thinking.
"So vision is to hold pictures o f right thinking and do­
ing, and see them finished. It can be.”
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 159
Ques. "T h en Vision is not at once, or at the begin­
ning? Is it taken on trial?”
Ans. "V ision of the lesser things are at once, and there
is always demonstrable actions. Still the great things are
the result o f continuous living on the right side o f the
equation, and asking believing. A lw ays it is the same
law o f prayer w ith nothing left out.
"Its grow th in hum an consciousness is one o f fo llo w ­
ing the practices o f the 'I A M ’, from the beginning o f
feeling the 'Presence’, until vision is natural and a con­
stantly 'clicking in’ process.
" I t cannot be at the beginning any more than the A , B,
C ’s are the whole o f education.
" It starts in faith, but is uncovered b y doing in the
vineyard o f w ork, where God being alw ays just, gives
according to w orth .”
Ques. "D oes this mean that all powers are the result
o f study and cultivation; in w hich living is the main
p art?”
Ans. " It does; one must begin, and then go on, never
w avering on the road o f endeavor.”
Ques. " It is said that gifts come from birth, incanta­
tions and drugs. Is this true?”
Ans. "T here is little to support this, save in the fact
some are born to better stations than others and this m ay
be because of past births, m aking the w ay clear.
"Incantations are a manner o f prayer, from the emo­
tional, and from such, men have been know n to fall into
a 'T ran ce’ in which they came forth as revealers.
"Still the method o f Vision is a sequence o f law that all
can understand and so is the righteous w ay. It, too,
in deep devotion, brings trance and also freedom from the
body.
"D ru gs are know n to have been used, as the Indian
hemp, and hypnotics in drugs, that produce m any illu ­
sions; but are not free agents o f Vision or Vibration, and
160 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM 1 LESSONS
so are not to be used.
"H yp n o tic processes reveal the Subconscious in others;
and Autohypnosis give the same thing to the individual,
w ith the added freedom o f G oing, where Vision asks,
and V ibration carries. This is the M aster’s w ay .”
Ques. "W ill hypnotism alw ays give vision?”
Am. "N o , not in any portion o f the time. H yp n o ­
tism usually stops at the m agnetic subconscious, and does
not enter into the Soul. It m ust do this, to have Vision.
The other belongs to the body plane, and is not freeing the
Soul.
"T h is is one o f the H indrances that m ust be encoun­
tered, w ith a M aster to guide the w ay. T h ey belong to
the illusions o f the senses, and harm rather than help, the
freedom o f the Soul.
"O fte n this form o f vision is that o f a dream, and simi­
lar to dreams all have, either from w orry, fan cy, sickness
or nervous disorder.
"T h is kind o f vision, when fixed, leads to insanity.”
Ques. "T h en w hat is the practical part o f vision and
how is the illusive know n from the true?”
Ans. " B y certain well know n rules.”
The first is, that true vision alw ays comes free and
unafraid, w ithout fear, and is some good to happen, or is,
happening.
' Second, it is the result o f Prayer, in the silence, and
before body sleep.
"T h ird , it awakens the latent body and there is a going
and a seeing w ith knowledge returned.
"Fou rth , it leaves within the body a lasting impressiop,
o f happiness.
"F ifth , it is doing what is required through vision, and
w ill be remembered as something that had actually hap­
pened.
"S ix th , it separates the true from the false and gives
the right w ay o f doing.
ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS 161
"Seventh, it has the pow er in all things and therefore
the w ay to banish evil.”
Oues. "D oes the G reat W hite Brotherhood have a n at­
ural w ay o f overcom ing evil w ithin the body, and is this
practiced as degrees?”
Ans. "Y es, the Brotherhood has the basic principle o f
right and w rong tow ard God in all acts o f man.
" I t therefore divides action into good and bad and the
people good and evil.
" I t believes the acts o f m an impress themselves upon
the plastic body, and that gives good and malicious m ag­
netism.
"A n d all m agnetism carries thought o f a like nature.”
Ones. "T h en there are evil influences?”
Ans. "Y es, this is noticed everyw here w ithout m uch
done about it; save to fear evil influences, and the e ffect
o f such association upon individuals.
"E v il influences are cured b y the perfect vision o f love
in the body and mind. For nothing can resist love as a
cure o f evil.”
Qnes. "W h at is done about malicious m agnetism ?”
Ans. "T h e rule is to love it out o f existence, and that
is, to vision the body pure, and keep it so, by vibration o f
living above evil influences. Vision lifts m ankind and
vibration keeps them so.”
Ques. "Is it possible to use vision and vibration to put
on another malicious m agnetism, by Philtrs and charm s?”
Ans. "Y e s; this is a pretty well established practice,
amongst the evil inclined who use the m agnetic charm to
impress upon tokens their evil thought, and men and
wom en are sensitive to this suggestion, in about the same
proportion as that found in hypnosis.”
Ques. "W h at is the counteract to overcome evils o f
this kind? Is it the same plan, though suggestion from a
purged and clean m agnetic body?”
Ans. "Y e s; in vision and purging b y suggestion or
— W
S
B
S
&
S
B
S
B
S
A
162 ALTRURIAN BROTHERHOOD I AM I LESSONS
word o f m outh.”
Ques. "T h en it is possible to visit another in vision and
have conversation w ith them, rem em bering it?”
Am. "Y e s; this was the case o f C hrist in meeting Paul
on the road to Dam ascus. A n d has been verified in all
ages w ith men seeing and conversing w ith another, at a
distance.
" I f this law was more know n, m any o f the diseases that
now in flict m ankind w ould be rem edied.”
Ques. "W h at is meant by laying the body down? Is
it meant the body is suspended in anim ation for a tim e?”
Ans. "N o , it is not suspended in anim ation, though
that can be, through w hat is know n as catelepsy. It is
meant that mental e ffo rt, o f an objective character, is sus­
pended, and there is an opening for Spiritual understand­
ing. It is this state in w hich conversion is experienced.
"T h a t is, the body gains a new life, by being negative,
and this is the start o f God know ledge.”
P A R T T H R E E
The Pilgrim , Prophet and Me is an exposition o f the
w ithin brought forth by living according to principles o f
" I A M I” , and demonstrated in actual doing as these forces
are w ithin the body. A ll w ithin, save the Me, and so are
hidden and latent forces.
Y o u w ill find the practical development, as the narra­
tive goes from chapter to chapter.
I AMI
C h a pter X V II
T H E R E A R E T W O P E R S O N A L IT IE S W IT H IN ME
A L L T H E T IM E
N o w I am going to relate phenomenal things before and
after the Lodge experience. Things o f im portance hap­
pening to me that m ay clear aw ay the m ystic doubt in the
minds o f all about the hidden and latent in man.
I know them to be true, fo r I can scarcely remember
a time when these phenomenal things did not happen. A t
the beginning I was in possesion o f the pow er o f seeing
and talking to others alike to m yself, young children of
m y own age, though in the Spirit, fo r they had departed
this life but were not dead.
I was associated w ith, and talked to them as real com­
panions; only others not seeing, believed me to be talking
to m ake believes. A nd they were m ake believes to them,
but to me, real.
T h ey are real, and so the explanation is, I m ust have
been in possession o f a subconscious personality, that gave
me the privilege of association, not ordinarily the privilege
o f other people.
A personality that is the result o f developm ent in the
body and mind part o f me, or that was born w ith me,
can not be other than law — that is w ithin the possibility
o f every one. A possibility that is developed through a
mediator.
A M ediator that is natural to mind powers and to
grow th. One w ith every one, and every one uses. T hat
I found later to be a fact. A fact that all people in
[164]
165
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
study or when talking to themselves, are calling upon the
higher or m editative, to answer moot questions and thus
settle the objective into conclusive thinking.
This force or personality is a part o f every one and a
close associate; fo r it does really answer, but does not
nearly agree w ith w hat is asked o f it. Indeed w ith me
it has m ostly been in answers that disagreed w ith w hat I
wished.
It gives us vision o f w hat we can do, and so is a Prophet.
W hen this prophecy turns w ithin, and is m editative and
prayerfu l it connects outer things w ith inner hope, and
so gets consciousness to a state o f revery, about the " I A M ”
and the power o f the Pilgrim .
It is not the Pilgrim or the " I A M ” , but is the means
by w hich the body is tuned into them, and therefore is the
M aster power o f individual grow th.
Thus the Pilgrim was awake, even in the earliest years,
to invisible influences, to friends upon m y own plane o f
living, that as a child were companions. Others did not
see and had an easy explanation in "m ake believes” .
I only knew and accepted their com panionship, as any
child would, w ithout question. I knew they departed
when disturbed and so sought silence and being alone.
For that was the w ay o f talking to them.
N ow , I realize, I had the privilege o f talking to Souls
who had departed from the body through a mental atti­
tude o f receptivity that is alikened to dream.
I lost the privilege of talking to m y little friends through
the grow th o f objective education and fear. For then the
body eliminated the receptivity o f dream, w ith nothing
lacking, that is the doorw ay to the Soul.
I found it again, in the m ountain through the principle
of self-surrender that is alike to the Christ com mand, "T o
lay down your life and find it” .
I found it also in hypnosis; that is, closing the door o f
one part o f intelligence to find another.
166 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
I found it in repeating the M antra o f " I A M the Res-
urection and the life” until a som ething clicked within,
m aking me have another personality that is not bound by
sense perception.
I found it in the Silence o f Prayer while meditating
upon the consciousness o f God, and H is answer to my
petitions in "askin g believing” .
I found it when busy in introspection w ith a something
to bring, outer intelligence, a solution fo r m oot problems.
I found it in Faith, in absolute surrender o f the voli­
tionary part o f me, while listening to a voice speaking
within, w ithout words, says: "T h is is the w ay and the law
o f cure” .
I realized these things by the results in w ork. So I am
telling o f the law and the w ay, that all m ay know the
progress o f surrender and the approach to the A ltar, to do
likewise.
I recorded happenings and the incidents o f w ork that
demonstrated the P IL G R IM com ing abroad to heal the
sick and to help the w eary and footsore on their w ay.
Some things I could not do. One o f w hich was I could
not consciously or objectively talk to the Pilgrim . I could
feel his presence, and know the practices by w hich this
feeling came abroad, but not talk.
Love was the first requirem ent o f feeling. I must be
in a loving mood, to "click in” to the divine and to have
the Pilgrim take control of body function. Then he would
seem to be the same as I, only objectively, I did not re­
member the reason fo r m y doubting certain things that
gave cures to others.
I knew they came about, for objectively there is always
the evidence o f the sick getting well. O f poverty being
rem oved, and o f unhappiness disappearing.
A something so tremendous, it seems like a "presence”
directing in hum an affairs when all else has failed.
In this thin dividing line between the conscious and
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 16 7
the subconscious is a lake o f "Illusions” , in w hich the ego
sometimes assumes power, and then the spurious is ac­
cepted fo r the real.
The im agery o f form s, ghosts, messages and success theo­
ries are largely based upon the ego illusions. A n d so fact
must be attested, to theory, in w ork done. M oreover,
this fact m ust be in law that is workable and varies neither
to the "rig h t or le ft” .
Rem em ber the connection, between one intelligence and
the other, is a thin dividing line in w hich all is laid upon
the A ltar w ithout mental reservation, so there cannot be
illusion.
Then "clickin g in ’ is a mental effo rt, when all thought
is still, to hear and know the power o f Soul, letting the
P IL G R IM come forth in w ork.
It comes w ith the power o f the spirit and changes fear,
doubt and non-action, into action and direct results, to
give happiness, health and prosperity.
N o w to make this principle more understandable: it is
like snapping out of disagreeable moods, conditions and
effects o f disaster.
It is like know ing the sun is still shining, and back of
the clouds, there is a silver lining.
Tragedies are o f the mom ent, but God is always. So
"clickin g in” is alike to getting aw ay from the disagreeable
or destructive into the consciousness o f power.
Surely it is a training. A something that has to be
cultivated by m uch prayer and fasting. It is to know
there is this marvelous g ift w ithin, and then to follow
the beaten path o f those gone before, to have and hold
what they had.
It does not come as a gift, but is the result o f study and
practice.
The easy things in life are those first know n to respond.
A something by which the mind does things easier than
before.
168 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
It m ay be a something, you have been doing a long time,
changed to a better w ay.
It m ay be an inner illum ination o f the pow er to know,
and the method o f approach. A lw ays, it is opening the
doorw ay to the Soul a little more, b y every effo rt, and day
by day, know ing more.
Thus the "click in g in” process becomes intriguing and
anticipatory process and the m ind becomes interested and
intent, w ith love alw ays at the A lta r as a director.
The greater the intensity o f love the more active the
forces w ithin become. For subconscious inform ation
comes from the Soul when the body is put to sleep or is
non-resisting. So there m ust be a clear w ay and recep­
tiv ity to the plane o f Soul. Love at the A ltar is the way.
Experience is the method o f being adept in body sur­
render. A nd suggestion the method o f keeping love at
the A ltar. It is to love everybody, everyw here, all the
time. Banishing all evil and keeping thought free from
enm ity, hurt feelings, and egotisms.
Love is never an illusion, fo r it is a tuning in force,
like the knob o f a door or turning the dial o f a radio; a
something to use first, and before com m unication. Thus
love and the practice o f love, becomes an im portant prin­
ciple in and before "click in g in” to the Subconscious.
A fte r "click in g in” , developm ent depends upon the
individual culture and devotion to the Soul. O f course,
it is the use o f mind powers, and the natural thinking o f
the individual. For inform ation is as gradual as culture,
even after "click in g in” , to the Soul plane.
E veryth ing physical, in culture or doing, m ust be ac­
quired, save the mechanism. A nd so in the Soul its dimen­
sions have to be explored before there is real inform ation.
A nd always inform ation connects w ith the know n here.
It is given in powers o f healing, and in physical rela­
tionships. A nd then goes onward through experience
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 1 6 9
until now and then amongst men there are M asters w ith
master powers.
M y experience in the Lodge made this condition o f
"clickin g in” understandable.
It was there I gained the knowledge o f bringing p rin ­
ciples outw ard in physical w ork.
There I gained the em phatic knowledge, o f there A R E
T H R E E O F U S. T o make these three coordinate, is to
study them as personalities, separately; and then to unite
them.
The accom plishm ent is in using the visible and know n
until there is coordination between the hand culture and
m ind development. For there is book culture and hand
culture.
Book culture has not always the culture o f the hand,
and then the personality becomes that o f the im practical
dreamer.
The hand culture makes the body proficient, but often
lacks the book culture, and therefore the subconscious
storehouse o f the past is not available in effo rt.
N atu rally these tw o are physical and so the m ental part
o f the physical m ust be blended into one. Then the mind
and body w ork together.
Rem em ber it is a training in using the two of us. A
training necessary to success. For no one can bring out,
and into execution, the ideas o f mind as they appear in
revery.
There they seem to be smooth and clear. Put them into
words, and often there is a lack in smoothness , and even
in the idea itself. Thus ideas must be brought forth and
hammered into shape.
E very creative e ffo rt is the result o f these tw o forces
o f body and mind, in bringing forth the w ithin power.
For always whether Spiritual or not, the com ing forth is
physical, and is the result o f coordination through p rac­
tice.
170 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
The practice is in talking to oneself, cogitating and
entering into meditations, that the body and mind may
w ork together; study together, and be at one in both.
T alkin g to oneself is the great simple principle o f disci­
pline, and has been the m editative principle o f all the
thinkers and philosophers o f the ages.
It leads to a study o f the higher self and brings o f the
higher self into action.
N o w comes the next and im portant unfoldm ent. It is
in the belief there is another and greater pow er behind
all mind and heart cultivation.
It is a something that is alw ays w hispering o f im m or­
tality.
It, too, is cultivated through self talking. T h at is,
talking to this hidden something as if it is a present per­
sonality w ith tremendous power, because o f its connection
w ith w hat is thought to be the infinite.
Thus all problems o f a m ental and physical nature are
brought to the A ltar o f the unknow n, and discussed with
the mind leaning beyond the store o f recollection, to grasp
and furnish outer ideas, o f an inner connection.
This is a feeling, o f w ithin there is a w ay, to bring into
the open that w hich is hidden. This w ay is always a Silent
w ay, and so the m editation o f the Silent prayer.
The Silent prayer has to be cultivated the same as the
body and mind and to have results in w ork.
The w ork is in correcting inharm ony o f the body. For
the body is personal and often inharmonious. So it is a
glorious assumption to feel there is a pow er w ithin and
bring it forth in personal conquest. Thus the power o f
prayer is in "askin g believing” .
It is an inner confidence that one can ask any thing
"In m y name, and it w ill be given” . O f course, this is
the result o f coordination between the body and mind,
in the first preparation, and in connection w ith this inner
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 171
force, in the second. Thus the Prophet is born in con­
sciousness b y talking to him.
"A sk in g believing” , w ith faith is to have a dem onstra­
tion in outer effo rt. It is to know there is an inner p art­
ner, who w ill take the body cares to the throne o f grace,
and there w ill be given the substance, when turned to ac­
tuality, to an answer to prayer. It gives one the job they
need, on any plane, when there is suitable provision.
There never is a break in the law , though m any there
be, who do not see or hear o f it, in their individual e ffo rt.
A ll because they have not turned from the physical and
do not know the Prophet part o f them.
A sk believing, is not a lip service, and so is not in the
sense o f direction, physical. It is in consciously know ing
there is this power o f overcom ing physical obstacles and
that it never hears no— in the asking.
The Prophet is the doorkeeper to the throne o f God.
H e opens by and through talking to him. T alkin g to and
about present wants, and being satisfied there is but one
answer.
IT IS A S K IN G B E L IE V IN G . It leads to the third, o f
the great triune.
So the same process is entered in prayer, to bring into
action, that is used in the cogitations that have brought
the duality o f mind and body, and o f m ind and the hid­
den and latent force, only now it is a deeper and more
serious task, for, and in the end is no less than that given
to Nicodem us, "V erily , verily, I say unto you, except a
man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom o f G od” .
Born again means to lay down the body, to still it, to
make it non-active in thought, then the Pilgrim o f God
will come forth doing.
A lw ays it is a messenger when the body is surrendered.
A messenger that does all things in H is name. So the
recipient must obey the rules and be on the God side.
172 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
T o be on the side o f God is to have regular periods of
prayer.
Prayer that w ill allow the loss o f consciousness without
fear.
Prayer that gives the P IL G R IM pow er to change m ud­
dled conditions into harm ony. T o do the w ork, and to
answer prayer.
It has to be more than belief; fo r it is asking to hear the
"w ee small voice speaking,” saying, " I w ill take care of
you ,” and then objectively realizing it to be true.
M y experience has alw ays been the same; I am asked
to cure some one, to give com fort or cheer. I answer, " I
w ill take care o f you .” Then the Pilgrim does the work,
because I have surrendered, to bring him forth.
I say, I did it, but m y m eaning is the Pilgrim . H e then
is the " I ” . A n d strange as it m ay seem these assertions
are follow ed by cure. Thus the spirit comes forth to con­
vince.
The same process o f prayer and Silence brings the P IL ­
G R IM as a conscious associate m ember o f the body trio.
Thus the relationship o f the three personalities is made
O N E . One when the body personality surrenders com ­
pletely to the trance o f sleep, to G IV E F R E E D O M to the
S P IR IT .
Then the Pilgrim is released from inhibition o f the sense
emotions, and is M aster, w ith the body subject to his will.
A nd all o f this is through com plete negation o f laying the
body down.
It is going from m om entary relaxation and a feeling of
change, called "click in g in” , wherein the feeling is o f the
"Sp irit being upon me” , wherein the body has surrendered
sensibility to action and thought, w ith the Pilgrim in con­
trol.
The plan o f practice is the same always. T h at is, it is
m editation and Silent Prayer, w ith love always the g ift at
the A ltar.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 173
Love thus changes the body, b y raising vibrations o f the
molecular functioning life into a state similar to the Soul.
A nd fo r this reason the Pilgrim uses the body and his e x ­
periences are recorded by a provision o f resolve in the
mind, to give Soul experience vision.
This through prayer, in the last, loses the body in sleep,
to open the door to the very throne o f God. W hile it
does so, is also fixin g the principle through w hich there is
the retroaction o f return. T h at is the w ay it is given by
w hich the Pilgrim m ay m anifest in the body from the God
side o f the equation.
The Pilgrim having a volu ntary w ay to return, has
aroused within the feeling o f "G u ardian A ngels” protect­
ing w ith his presence and power, to w ithstand tragedies.
H e does so by w hat is termed "prem onitions, visions,
telepathy, thought transference and all phenomenal w ays”
not accorded to the physical and mental.
It is fu lfillin g the great request o f "Lead me not into
tem ptation, but deliver me from evil” , m eaning, the P il­
grim has the pow er and privilege o f w arding o ff dangers
o f every kind.
C all it w hat you m ay, the principle is one o f first
training, the body, to make the Pilgrim possible from the
physical side o f the equation, and o f leaving the beaten
path open for the Pilgrim to return, whenever he is
needed.
T h at is, the body is constant in receptivity and can
turn to the receptive side o f the equation instantly; no
m atter w hat is doing, the place, or circum stance. Thus
is the door always open, to sw ing outw ard to w ard o ff
dangers.
The real basis o f w hich is prayer entered into, as in the
body w ith Love always at the A ltar and love o f an ab­
stract character to give to everyone, everyw here o f it free
from desire, egotism, fear, doubt, envy or emotional hates
and greeds. These belong to the body and are not spirit-
174 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
ual. So love as a g ift m ust be free o f them. A nd that is
the w ay fo r the m ind to receive messages, visions and fore­
tellings.
It is said that most events o f vision or foretelling are in
regard to loved ones, and so love is the m otive. Still many
o f them are about outside things in w hich the parties are
not loving associates nor have been. T h en this hypothesis
falls. For the super-sensitive state is not the result of
love’s protection, but o f personal love.
The fact o f experience is that the whole o f experiences
are abstract. T h at is, the p arty or parties affected are not
related, but A L W A Y S T H E P A R T Y R E C E IV IN G is one
that is dominated w ith love, is receptive and spends much
time in silence and alone.
These have the power, because o f inner devotion, to
only touch the "H em o f the garm ent” , for it is to the
Seers and Prophets the pow er is given as a help to the
world.
Thus the three o f us are prepared, to unite in Love, and
Love fostered and abetted b y prayer, in the Silence until
it breaks through the separating lines to m ake it possible
for the Pilgrim from his place, w ith the " I A M ” , to come
through, using the Prophet as his guide, to refine
the body, so that his Light m ay shine.
T h at is the great light. A Face and form illuminated,
w ith God presence.
w m e " *
I AMI
C hapter X V III
L O V E IS T H E G R E A T E S T T H IN G IN T H E
W O R L D , A N D A L L H A V E IT
Ecstasy o f love is the supreme joy o f the hum an heart.
It is a realization o f Peace. A D ivine peace, "F o r the
Lord is m y shepherd; I shall not w an t.”
Ecstasy comes from the great moments when there is
an object o f affection and a realization o f heaven. Thus
every love incident is added to that other something, aw ak­
ening man out o f bondage into the "K in gd om o f G od” .
Everyone w ants this love. A something that disperses
the sorrows o f the body and gives joy and peace instead.
A something that gives the feeling o f a silent and inner
partner ever w atch fu l and present to give help, yet never
interfering w ith the ordinary joys o f life.
A something reclaim ing joy, b y doing aw ay w ith the
hurts o f jealousy, envy, fear, doubt, m isery and unrest o f
the body. A something that turns w ithin to find peace;
fo r love always is w ithin— and in everything. So all hu­
man practices o f love are fatefu l footprints tow ard this
inner kingdom . T h ey become the living impulses to know
more o f and understand a feeling o f "D ivin e presence” .
Physical desire makes love seem illusive, fo r then it is
merged in egotistic w ant and is vain ; but that is because
o f the "Expressor” who being swayed allows w ant super­
sedence and does not connect w ith the universal p rin ­
ciple of peace and a love that is more than the body.
For love is more than the body, because always, it is
the messenger o f God within and is always calling the ego
[175]
176 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
aw ay from bondage b y going into the "S IL E N C E ” to
know how creation is given unto man.
It shows creation in the new born babe. Then is heard
the cooing words o f both m other and father, saying, "I
love you ,” to a bundle o f flesh that does not answer.
The baby is their creation and a part o f individual life,
going on w ith a feeling o f devotion and protection. Thus
it is an im itation o f G od’s plan fo r all people to replenish
the earth as H e has alw ays done.
It is said "G o d made m an in his ow n im age and like­
ness” . E very father and m other feels their child is in their
image and likeness. A g ift o f G od and a revelation to
them.
So the child is theirs, to teach the w ay and law of
grow th. T h ey begin alw ays w ith love. It m ay be physi­
cal, but alw ays partakes o f the D ivine.
The babe is nurtured, fed, clothed and cared for, in
body and mind. Its instincts are nurtured by words of
endearment, it after a time understands. For the train­
ing is slow but alw ays a love force.
It is taught love, com ing abroad in service, and devo­
tion that cares fo r all ills. It is taught right and wrong,
obedience and faith. A ll through practice.
It is trained in words and expressing ideas, then is given
play and w ork to nurture both the body and mind.
It is given the three R ’s, as a basis o f education, and the
essence o f the com m andm ents as a m oral code. T he ob­
ject is to have the child grow in grace, in thought, and
body, according to pattern. A lw ays in w hich is love.
The highest conception o f love by parents.
It is not always God love, or only that portion belonging
to the animal instinct; yet is always according to develop­
m ent and conception o f the greatest power upon earth;
and eventually leads all m ankind to God.
Therefore this love o f God is always w ithin, some time
dorm ant and again active. Y e t always is the one thing
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 177
called upon when sorrow, tragedy, sickness and death are
near.
It is the something that gives to the dying, peace, and to
those left solace. Y e t in practice, the great com forter is
as something unspoken. Its connection to God not real­
ized, and so to most m ankind, there is a gap between the
know n and unknow n— p itifu l in ignorance.
There is a plan o f overcom ing this w oeful state o f not
know ing that when practiced is as sure in realization as
the things taught as practical for outer living.
This plan is to carry the child inw ard to a conception
o f love that is all em bracing, in that it lifts the veil o f
darkness from the human heart. In the last, it is an ac­
ceptable doctrine, bringing the P IL G R IM abroad in the
affairs o f men.
This last comes through m uch prayer and fasting. So
these are natural practices o f love development. Prayer
is the w ay and law , to connect love w ith the D ivine. It is
always to begin all petition w ith a love o fferin g o f peace,
between all living creatures.
Love is from the D ivine. N o one can look back in
creation w ithout know ing this; and so is a part o f uni­
versal life made personal.
Personal expression limits its power to individual con­
ception and so m ay be intense or an indifference that
is scarcely love. Then it is hidden under indifference and
the m isery o f living conditions until the hope and faith
o f God w ithin fade away.
Still the devotion o f fathers and mothers give the living
principle to children, and in a lesser degree to neighbors
and friends. For it is a solidarity power nothing else equals
in life.
W hen it is abundant, there is peace, happiness and pros­
perity, for it is contagious in attraction from one to an­
other, and from others to one. The law being, "Pressed
down and heaping over returned” .
178 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
N o w m ake this personal expression o f love, from one to
another, a devotion to the Suprem e Soul, and the power is
extended to fit D ivin ity w ithin the hum an heart.
First, because devotion to the D ivine is w ithout guile.
A sking believing. A nd second, it is w ithout pretense or
outer semblance o f ego. It does not w an t or wish to be
heard o f men. It is therefore silent and m editative.
C hrist said, the supreme g ift is when m an lays down a
life to save a friend. Thus is given the whole o f its power
in devotion to the Supreme.
A giving o f this nature means to be prepared by outer
feeling, by using all hum an attachm ents, as a pattern to
carry in prayer.
It must be affectionate, as all physical loves are; but
also it m ust be the offerin g at the A ltar at times o f inner
com m unication. A something that w ill lay down the cares
and worries o f the body to make contem plation and medi­
tation free and unafraid.
Thus God love is also a solidarity that is not variable.
It is the same as that other supreme love— the marriage
covenant, that promises, "forsake all others and cling unto
thee, until death do us p art” . O nly G od love being the
universal covenant, has no lim itation in death, because
there is no death.
Its promise to have the universal love in the body, and a
conscious part o f God presence. O f course this resident
power is personal, and adds to affection D ivine grace. Its
promise is a love that cures all afflictions and gives peace,
clim axing in the " I A M ” com ing abroad in the affairs
o f men and always as a w ithin "Presence” .
O f course this "Presence” is a cleansing power, w iping
aw ay doubt and fear by raising the body vibration above
them. Then there is a feeling o f ecstasy and contentm ent
adding to the personal affections. So m uch so, there is a
looking fo r the good in others— instead o f evil.
It clothes the body in a m agnetism that is like an auro
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 179
surrounding to give o ff the good news, " I have found it,”
and others seeing, ask, "W h at have you that makes you
so contented, prosperous and happy looking?” A ll o f
which is but an evidence o f the "Presence” shining
through.
It is the M A S T E R ’S w ay o f being know n.
H e is know n when love is supreme w ithin, and all h u ­
m an fears and doubts are laid upon the A lta r to ask be­
lieving.
The g ift is always love, and the answer is through love.
It is the same love that is in all hum an contacts and is a
fondness o f feeling that is peace to every one. Then it
turns to the object o f affections and has its ow n rew ard.
For when love goes out to the north, south, east and west,
surely the same feeling is at home. A nd this is the kind
of affection that must be at the A ltar o f prayer.
Then comes the introspective period where mistakes in
conduct are looked into, through all the days o f the past
w ith an ever-ready love to put something good in the place
o f evil. A nd this goes on until there is a freedom from
sin. Then is the "A sk in g believing” . It is also a feeling
God know s and so the answer is acceptable.
The introspective period o f prayer is an honest seeking
to be right, and that is individual, to be accepted and real­
ized as an individual problem.
I f and when all is laid down, and when belief is changed
into faith, and there has been an asking believing, w ith an
answer. Then is know n the w ay to God consciousness is
found, and the road made plain.
The contact w ith the " I A M ” has been experienced and
his com ing abroad is in solving the problems o f hum an
frailty not easy for the mind and body to understand.
The " I A M ” is not consciously seen. H e is only felt in
the good accomplished and the peace given. Bu t keep on
and he w ill be closer than a brother and something always
near.
180 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
Com ing abroad is in the oft-repeated M antra, " I AM
the Resurrection and the life” . A ll things are mine when
I am ready. I am ready when I am free from "th eft in
thought and deed” . It is a realization that all the body
has is surrendered through love.
The realization comes naturally, because it is a growth
o f suggestion that day b y day, and alike unto breath, is
sufficient for every need and alw ays an abundance is con­
sciousness.
Then follow s a w ay o f bringing this consciousness
abroad, in asking believing w ith confidence.
It is the body and mind part, after love has contacted
the " I A M ” and has asked— believing.
The asking the " I A M ” is in know ing the subconscious
self is the processes o f laying the body dow n in m aking
the obective negative to the Soul at the tim e o f prayer.
Then the aroused consciousness m ake o f the objective
something that can ask believing and receive an answer.
Dem onstration o f the law is natural and follow s direct
processes o f unfolding. There m ust be a preparing time.
Ju st like love in the body unfolds from one state to an­
other. For this power comes because o f introspection, and
o f fixin g processes o f thought.
W hile in the beginning it is laying the body down, in
practice, it is carrying confidence o f body reliability to
the m arts o f trade and being conscious there cannot be
other than an answer to prayer.
A s m any as have Faith can ask believing.
Thus love brings the power of God into the hum an heart
like the springtim e o f youth brings the m ating call that
changes life. Though this is m aterially fleeting, going in
to living life, the first ecstasy o f m ating love is the same
as the ecstasy of divine assurance, com ing from going to
the A ltar and asking believing.
For always love is arousing the fires o f eternity to have
harm ony and peace here.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 181
It is in contacting and believing in "a presence” and
power greater than mind or body, but w hich is in them.
It is in going o ff a distance to be alone and m editate
upon the w hy, cause and where o f life as it is, and its lim i­
tations and then putting to the test in feeling how love
feels.
T hin k o f it as a precious something to be used, and use
it. Use it by fixin g it as a principle o f every day contact
w ith every one.
For alw ays love is feeling; a feeling o f confidence and
peace, then it is a giving principle, to be given as a com ­
forting power to override the sad and disagreeable. It is
a living force that thrives upon being returned and pressed
dow n; but more especially it JU S T IS. A nd all have it
in proportion to use.
It m ay take time to m ake the principle operate so that
all can understand.
It m ay be held back by reticence, fear and doubt.
It m ay be rebuked in its expression. Still love is silent,
though it m ay be felt.
The struggle to express love is in thought, deeds and in
feeling even more than in words.
W ords there are that convey meaning, but the great
"W O R D ” is ineffable.
It comes from the silence that allows a "click in g in” to
the home o f the Soul, that is like a divine change in the
heart and mind. For one mom ent the heart and mind is
occupied w ith objective doubts, and the next is irradiating
w ith faith and confidence.
There has been a change— in laying one set o f thought
conditions down, and taking up another.
This is accomplished in "R e st Periods” or times o f m edi­
tation. Tim es m any have not the time to take, and so do
not know . For these times surrender the body to the Soul
through negation and m editation.
It takes time fo r any one to find the consciousness o f
182 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET A N D ME
Soul so there are m any w ho do not take Silent prayer
seriously. Y e t this is the w ay.
Consciousness is not at once fo r any one fo r realization
is at first like "seeing through a glass d ark ly” , but there
is seeing, and w hat is more im portant, there is "w orks”
afterw ard. W orks o f healing, o f helping others, and of
perceiving outer evidences o f doing better.
It is always w ithin, love is given the life energy to bring
the " I A M ” abroad, in giving health to the sick, happiness
to the sorrow ful, and abundance to the asking. A nd while
this power has been, is, and w ill be alw ays, the individual
has to grow to it. G row by the silence o f introspection.
It is an individual kingdom , and only so when the body
has been made ready fo r the invited guest. T h at is the
disciplining part, and so it takes tim e to have the Pilgrim
come through.
A lw ays it is given as the innocence o f childhood in ask­
ing "believing” , and always it is a heart joy. A joy that
cannot be measured by words. For nothing can quite
equal the peace com ing, when some one asks, "W here did
you get w hat you have, and how do you do these things?”
It is when there is a healing because o f love. A love
that makes another "fe el so good” returns thanks and
giving "th e joy o f the L o rd ” .
Love of God is always that w ay, and yet in principle is
no differen t from the affections o f body contact. For
love, no m atter the plane, is alw ays love.
It is the simple idea of giving happiness to the one loved,
and is an affectionate consideration. A n d when used to
help others holy, because o f God association. It is for
everybody, because alike unto life and breath, is always
abundant.
It is developed in prayer periods, until it passes beyond
body attachm ent to a devotion that cures all inharm ony
w ithin its scope, and yet is always affectionate. A nd
alike to affection leaves happy memories o f the great
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 183
events o f its expression.
So great healing is recalled as are the happy moments
o f surrender to vital urge. These are the incidents that
have proven the road and w ay to eternal life. It is a
separating line between the body and the power o f laying
the body down to find im m ortality.
Surely the time o f "P rayer Periods” is not a task with
so m uch to gain. Surely they can be m aintained as a
means o f conscious and continuous happiness.
It is not d ifficu lt when m an has been trained in rest
periods and gives time to relax in times o f stress, or when
virtue has gone out or things vex.
Then the call is "th e resurrection and the life” o f love
in service. A nd the d ifficu lty o f trial becomes the joy
o f overcom ing.
A lw ays love is expressed from the body, but there are
different body loves and so this is one alike to the others
only having its consciousness within.
Body love is first— father and m other love fo r their
baby and then the awakening o f baby devotion. It spreads
to friends, relatives and neighbors. G oing into associa­
tion in individual fam ily life w ith outside interests. But
all is love, in different degrees. The more used the more
returned, and so w ith this last and greatest gift. It is the
same love w ith the fountain fixed in the throne o f being.
It comes abroad by association and practice as all other
loves, but carries the "Presence” to cure all human ills.
E very one some time feels its presence. T h ey know of
the change o f thought, and the feeling o f being helped.
So by the very evidence o f outside things, it tells o f miser­
able conditions being changed. Changed by someone
speaking the "W O R D ” .
A word in w hich love is master.
Some one has taken Love into the Silence and there
complied w ith the laws o f prayer until the body has re­
sponded to the w ithin and love has come forth free from
184
■HH H H iiH i
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
guile and expresses itself in a W O R D sometimes an " IN ­
E F F A B L E W O R D ” .
This is the supreme pow er o f love.
So the Silence o f prayer is the w ay and law to know
love in its higher use. T hen it becomes a healing power
to adjust all inharm onious conditions.
It cures disease and sickness. Changes physical es-
stranged love conditions. A djusts business activities; get
jobs fo r people w anting, and in fact, is the m ighty mes­
senger o f the body in w ork o f one "W h o is sent” .
A bove all, it ushers the K ingdom o f G od as an abiding
place o f all who ask believing and have its presence.
The rules are in the Silence o f prayer and in repeating
the M antra o f " I love everybody,” as one enters into
prayer, or when going to sleep upon retiring.
It also is an awakening m antra, and one used in times of
stress or trouble.
It is to clean up the things o f the day and to prepare
fo r the tom orrow by abiding in its principles.
This is the means of getting young as you grow old, and
is the secret o f life.
Rem em ber the reward is here and now. It is in hearing
the old, the sick, and distressed say, " I am feeling better
now ” .
It is the something w onderful that is a free g ift— to have
and hold always.
I AMI
C hapter X I X
P H Y S IC A L A N D M E N T A L P R A C T IC E S F IT T H E
B O D Y A N D M IN D T O R E C E IV E
W hat can I do to make m y body and mind receive these
rem arkable blessings promised, is asked by every one at
the portal o f the unknown.
It is answered alike to one choosing a vocation or pro­
fession— Prepare Yourself.
Prepare by study and practice until proficient in mind
and body activity to do what is wished in a vocation.
O f course there is always tw o distinct forces in educa­
tion. One is the book w ay, and the other the hand. M ean­
ing these tw o go together in efficiency.
Sometimes the w ay is not clear and then there is failure.
For not all succeed, because of lack o f coordination, that
is usually attributed to m isfortune, lack o f continuity,
and unpreparedness to do the task in hand. A dd unfitness
for the vocation, and most o f all physical vocation failures
are accounted for.
The Spirit is always the same. One, and within all
people; but there are m any gifts that fit the individual to
his or her vocation. A nd these gifts must be considered
as practical to the vocation entered. Then hardship van­
ishes, or is lessened, for it is only necessary to cultivate
knowledge of, and use o f hands, to be efficient.
So the choosing is the im portant thing necessary to
w ring success from w ork.
H ow ever choosing is but the beginning, and so at­
tached to choosing is study and apprenticeship.
[185]
186 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
In all trades this is given as fo u r years and measured by
proficiency. Some there are that do not succeed in mas­
tering the hand part in this tim e, and there are many that
never master the book part. T hus a great m ajority of
workers become just "draw ers o f w ater and hewers of
wood” .
W hile the Spirit is alw ays w illing, the flesh is weak.
A nd while there are m any gifts, the lack o f their produc­
tiveness is because the Spirit does not come abroad in giv­
ing inner pow er to do outer things.
IT C A N C O M E A B R O A D .
It comes by F A IT H . A nd every one can have F A IT H .
B u t faith is m arred by carelessness, abdiction to habits
o f sense and inability to hold to any thing long. B y lack
of Concentration, Fear, D oubt and E n vy , lack o f Love,
o f Friendliness and o f Peace. A ll leading to w orry, unrest
and inability to hold any position long— depending upon
the outside fo r sustenance w ith cryin g, sighing and moan­
ing because of lack o f substance. These hinderances are
overcom e by holding fast any vocation or w ork while
visioning something better.
N o w comes the great test. It is asking the " I N ­
N E R ” urge— to bring about a consciousness w ith the
M A S T E R , and have that something come abroad— for the
Spirit com ing through— there w ill be a planned w ay to
success, happiness and health. A ll the master powers of
the Children o f G O D .
B u t before there is an asking, there m ust be a w ay by
w hich the asking is made practical; and this is always
through the tw o principles of body training and book
knowledge. Education m ust be practical. So m ust hand
training.
The mind training is in training the body into an atti­
tude o f belief, and knowledge in a Faith born w ith the
conception o f life being im m ortal, and o f God being ever
present in the body.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 187
The Body practice is given as kneeling, w hich is an act
of submission to an unknow n and unseen C R E A T O R .
The Book knowledge is in calling upon H im .
N o w all the w orld has these tw o obediences, but all the
w orld has not the conviction o f them com ing through
in actual demonstration. So this form o f worship has
been designated as a "L ip W orship.” Lip worship because
it is fo r "T h e benefit and hearing o f m en.”
There is another practice— to bring forth God presence
in the " I A M ” ; and is in repeating openly or silently " I
A M T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N A N D T H E L IF E .”
Repeating it as a m antra, when alone and in the silence.
Alone and Silence is an im portant part o f practice. A nd
means to be free from outside things to contact G O D .
The practice is body relaxation. T hat is the body has
to be in a state of non-resistance called tranquility— a re­
laxation, as when lying down or when other thoughts are
under control, and is a dream y m editative state.
This state is the result of a loving attitude tow ard
everybody; and so the active prayer— is always through
the principle o f love— in w hich the practice is to train the
body and mind into a nonresistant attitude to the pricks
o f the flesh.
Lovin g everybody is loving people as you love yourself
— or w ant to be loved. It is not possessive or o f a self
limited nature, but rather as the Sun, is always shining;
a something that is fo r the purpose o f training the body
and mind to believe in peace as all essential to life.
So love at the A ltar is because love has been exercised
in all the things o f life. It is a good feeling o f having
enough to go around.
A ll of these practices have a fru itfu l as well as a dis-
tructive meaning. The fru itfu l are those traits o f charac­
ter that bear fru it. The D estructive are the exercises of
body in w ork or play that bear no fruit.
Childhoods play and rom ping is fru itfu l, because that
188 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
brings the body into perfection o f e ffo rt. Make this a
play always, and no w ork, then there is the saying of "A ll
w ork and no play makes Ja c k a dull boy.” The reverse is
also true.
So exercise is and should be fo r a specific purpose, and
not just an idling time.
The O lym pic games and those o f the Colosseum were
great as exercises, but led to destruction and did not live.
It m ay also be said— most o f the play time o f the pres­
ent— is not creative. For play exercise w ithout an object
— save in itself— is not good, no m atter the proficiency.
There is no objection to any o f the N ational pastimes
because o f sin, but rather because o f uselessness.
A great m any people m ay gain enjoym ent from playing
cards, but in the playing, when there is proficiency and a
habit there is nothing gained.
The same is true w ith regard to checkers, chess and
backgam m on. A ll recreative, but in no wise developing
the inner urge to know .
They, however, suggest a w ay by w hich habit can be
directed to efforts that w ill m ake the body and mind re­
spond to, and know the consciousness o f God. A nd that
suggestion is in directing exercises so that the conclusion
w ill be efficien cy, either in Concentration, Prayer, Breath,
Posture, A ttention and Intention; all leading to the joy of
know ing.
In Practice, the law is to adjust the body and mind to
believe hidden principle and to receive consciously. Then
the mind by exercise, goes into an attitude o f receptivity
w ith revelation the result.
Exercise thus becomes attention to the actions o f nature,
and laws o f tremendous value to m ankind.
E very discovery o f Science is thus brought about. It is
asking believing.
"T e ll me God, what is good in the peanut” o f D r. C a r­
ver, to the m editation o f Edison, and the incandescent
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 189
light:.”
These exercises o f m editation are the beacon light p rin ­
ciples o f body exercise— and always make the body a re­
ceiver o f great good.
N ow , when this same exercise is turned tow ard the
Soul, the same principle holds good.
There is no practice or exercise that is su fficien t o f it­
self. A ll o f them therefore, while separate in body, merge
in one conclusion. So that the m any exercises herein given
are to complete the whole, and m ake the body and mind
acceptable to instant prayer.
A nd while these practices are the beaten path to under­
standing processes o f body and m ind; all lead aw ay from
the emotions o f the body, and the noise o f the w orld—
to hear "the still small voice” o f peace speaking, as if an
inner presence— and so close there is a feeling rather than
hearing— takes possession in doing "H is w ill.”
N ow , let’s give the exercises as they come.
In P R A Y E R they are in laying the body down.
In Subconsciousness— the same thing is followed.
In Vision, the body is laid down w ith an awakening.
In Vibration the body— by exercise, is refined.
In Posture it is exercised, giving the eight fold w ay,
and are all body controlling.
In Breath the method is one o f exercise w ith each
breath under control.
In Planes, it is a change o f thought by exercises ac­
cording to development.
A ll o f these lead to the Disciple having a beaten path
going from the body to the mind, and from m ind to soul,
and from Soul to Spirit.
The tw o exercises of prayer are strictly separate. For
one is an outer part for the hearing o f men and the other
to go o ff a distance into the Silence.
The o fferin g in the last is love at the A ltar— and the
190 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
exercises found in the fifth and sixth Chapter of Matthew.
Especially it is a covenant to get up from prayer and
pay debts. To ask believing, and to accept the answer.
It is a simple w on derfu l petition and is the privilege of
every one. T he p ity is that few indeed, have followed
through to know .
A like to this prayer is the more objective practices of
laying the body dow n— in hypnosis.
There is the pivoting o f the eyes o f a sensitive, while
continuously suggesting sleep. A t the same time, the
hands contact the nerve o f the hand or w rist, and of the
tem ple to impress the w ill o f the operator.
The suggestion is follow ed w ith passes— from the head
down, and kept that w ay until the eyelids droop.
Then comes the positive com m and o f sleep.
This is follow ed b y fixin g the muscles and sensitive
obeying com m and to enter— the three states o f Sumnam-
bulism, Catelepsy, and o f Vision.
These exercises are the same— in A u to suggestion, which
links to the Silent prayer. It also has to be in the silence
and alone and is pivoting the eyes upon an object until
there is drowsiness, and then b y resolve, fall to sleep.
The Sleep is trance and an aw akening that give the
three powers o f hypnosis— and in addition— a knowledge
o f the Kingdom o f God.
The exercises and practices of vision are those o f medi­
tative stillness. Being the same as vision o f a m ental pic­
ture before doing.
This is the reverse, fo r it is in practicing stillness, so
that the thought and conditions o f the inner kingdom
w ill come through. Thus, this is the same as that portion
o f the Silent prayer, wherein is the "m editation w ith a
seed” — bringing a picture o f the object.
V ibration practices are those o f coordination o f mind
and body, or practices wherein the hand training fits into
thought training w ithout lost motion.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 191
This is bringing the tw o forces o f education into har­
m ony. It gives sureness o f m ovem ent and consciousness
o f doing. Thus the body responds to action and the m ind
gives direction.
It is simply to do things naturally and without lost
motion.
Concentration Practices— are a part o f all exercises and
in addition thereto, are in the nature o f freeing the mind
from unnecessary thought conditions, not a part o f ordi­
nary thinking.
T hinking m ust be a consecutive building and m athe­
m atical in conclusion. So thinking is logic and the rules
o f logic.
Concentration therefore follow s rule. First to think
w ith an object; that is, think by blanking out the unneces­
sary and so this is an em ptying process. The exercise in
pivoting the eyes upon a circular card, w ith center o f
about one inch black, while the outer circum ference is
white. (See Fealy’s C ard system for further d irection ).
A fte r this is holding to thought and m editation— that
gives devotion to the supreme soul.
From this there are the m any developments that give
entrance into the Subconscious and the m anner b y w hich
there is knowledge, given by the Card System.
Concentration has both the head and heart w ay in exer­
cises. The one— that o f pondering upon abstract thought
and the other in Sym pathy and in service to m ankind.
Posture is the activity o f the body in giving freedom
to devotion and is the body relation to prayer and culture.
It consists o f the various exercises— found in developing
Breath and in Prayer itself. It is also the method o f pro­
cedure in giving from one body to another.
It is in the V ibration o f the hands or finger tips, in
transm itting the breaths from one to another, and has an
192 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
e ffect the quivering o f the fingers— while the thought
o f one individual is thus pivoted.
Q uivering fingers can be dem onstrated as of great
w orth, for by this method alone, Pain can be taken from
another by quivering rubbing.
T hus posture is in the acts o f the body, that make easy
the activities o f m ind. T h ey are not alw ays prayers, but
are in all prayer.
There are eigh ty-fou r o f these directions given, in Tat-
vas the most com m on o f w hich in ordinary practice is that
o f kneeling. And probably this is the most useless.
Breath exercises are m any and varied. T h ey are for the
purpose o f m aking the breaths a life w ave in efficiency
o f cleansing the body while at the same time raising it to
standards o f being not norm ally natural.
Thus the prolonging o f breath— in long notes and the
raising o f it in high or low — is a practice o f long duration.
A n d o f course there are other breaths w ith exercises—
and exercises that com bine w ith the breaths— that make
the body respond to each developm ent.
These are given in Fealy’s book on Breath and in the
charts o f vitality— as giving the powers o f an individual,
to m aintain life— to the ripeness o f age w ith the vigor of
youth.
Then there are exercises o f the body to m ake w ay for
the greater powers o f inner consciousness. Powers and
exercises found in the discovery o f breath com bina­
tions— to cure diseases o f the body. T o adjust business
and social states, and always to enter into the Kingdom
o f heaven.
These exercises are basically physical— while behind the
physical is the mind thought, and thus is given to every
student the method o f starting w ith the body as a training
place to become fam iliar w ith the method o f going w ith ­
in.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 193
It is all the w ay from repeating the m antra o f " I A M
the resurrection and the life” . A nd the feeling o f all is
love, and love is the law and w ay to dem onstrating in calls
o f sickness, sorrow, distress, unhappiness and in failure.
Then these exercises prove o f w orth fo r they give the
devotee power to overcom e the weaknesses o f the flesh—
by giving peace, com fort and happiness.
I AMI
C h a pter X X
T H E W A Y T O T H E S U B C O N S C IO U S IS IN
P H Y S IC A L P R A C T IC E S G IV E N
A fte r having become fam iliar w ith the practices of
prayer and the call upon the " I A M ,” I became faithful
to the Prophet and Pilgrim through calling upon them in
times o f abstraction. T h at has been m y method of asso­
ciation w ith God.
Association w ith God in all affairs here, form ing a
partnership greater than all else on earth, and yet is the
seed that grew personal affection into a love glow o f glo­
rious association and a personal affection — the apex of
good w ill and cheer. A friendliness w ithin— to every­
body.
It showered its glory upon the object o f m ating, and
in proportion to every one needing help. In giving al­
ways, love pressed dow n returning.
It grows w ith life, and fu lfills destiny in surrender of
body desires to the Soul— as it marches on. N o one can
have more or w ant more, fo r the givin g and receiving is
D ivine.
It is in the silence o f m editation and in the exercises of
being prepared. It is m editating w ith the "Seed,” and
w ithout the "Seed,” just upon the power o f love to de­
velop within. A flow in g stream o f living w ater. It finds
the hidden and reveal the powers o f a subconscious per­
sonality.
N atu rally, m editation m ust be cultivated, fo r it will
not give results w ithout practice; and practice m ust be
[194]
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 195
from w ithout. A n d that is where the subdueing o f the
body fits into doing. For, before the Silence o f prayer
there is body preparation.
The Silence is a dream y state— after elim inating outer
thought conditions.
It follow s resolve, and the wish o f inner help, and thus
differs from ordinary m editative states. In resolve and
love as a beginning, and then follow s w ith contem plating
personal mistakes, sins o f omission and commission. E lim ­
inating them by putting something good in their place.
The Silence eliminates sins b y m editating upon G od
and the power of the " I A M ” to come abroad— and
being convicted, by having revelation in w hich asking is
followed by receiving.
These practices are simple. So simple a child under­
stands, and asks that w ay. Y e t by their sim plicity, bars
the m ature m ind from immediate understanding. Because
having built an objective life, there is the necessity o f la y ­
ing this down to find the other.
H erein is where Concentration enters into prayer. C o n ­
centration controls thought, and by it the objective is laid
down.
There are no words spoken— and yet the petition is not
fixed until there is a feeling o f confidence and faith that
the Pilgrim hears, and is taking the petition to the throne
o f grace, w ith an answer returned.
The answer depends upon the petition. I f there is neg­
lect in rule, it is not always so, but that is the object.
Alm ost all believe in God, but few have an inner asso­
ciation or know o f his intim ate association in the body.
The poor hope— because o f great need. The rich leave
H im until the hour o f death— or until other and outer
things begin to pall upon the senses.
The intellectual have not the time to p ay to such trivial
things as exercises and practices to be ready, and so God
is questioned and doubted.
196 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
God is left to the church and to m ature years— for to
most religion is not taken seriously and is the practices of
word prayer— and preaching, left to the idealist "as some­
thing good, but o f doubtfu l valuation.” All of these have
not found meditation with a seed.
M editation w ith a seed is the w ay. It is the w ay to
bring the " I A M ” to consciousness. It does so b y repeat­
ing a m antra o f " I A M the resurrection and the life,”
after there has been an affirm ative o f " I love everybody.”
Love as a principle. A som ething alw ays here, but not
practical.
Thus the seed is to be free from enem ity— and to love.
Rem em ber this affirm ation is personal, so meditation
is individual.
The result is in practical experience and a feeling of
friendliness to all the world.
For the practice o f Silence is the method o f gaining
association w ith the subconscious self, where there is not,
nor can be enem ity, back-biting or hard feeling.
It is found in hypnosis wherein all enem ity is banished
before every personal experience. Therefore, Silence is
the method of laying down the body to find im m ortal life.
O f course the im m ortal life is not the body, so these
tw o are separate though seemingly one. One in Prayer,
and when the body has been surrendered.
For prayer means to surrender the body through relax­
ation— in freedom for the im m ortal to come through— as
a living "Presence.” A nd that is the beaten path to the
" I A M .”
W ithin is an universal belief o f im m ortality— a some­
thing that does not die or change w ith the body into old
age or death.
A nd while an universal belief— the p ity is, so few know
the w ay to make it real.
I had found a w ay through subconscious studies that
are practical. T h ey start w ith the practices in hynotism
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 197
and through experience— finding the subconscious person­
ality of others and then through autosuggestion experienc­
ing the same personality w ithin— or when the body is
sleeping.
The M ental life had to rem ember this part o f me, fo r
the body was laid down. Laid dow n in sleep.
I w ent into these states through "R e v e ry ” aided and
abetted by practices, and alw ays w ent about to sleep
through tiredness. (Then Relaxation was com p lete).
In revery before sleep, there is an asking— and a resolve
to remember. T h at is preparatory, and a m ental resolve
before entering sleep.
It starts w ith love at the A ltar, and an active practice
o f the principles o f the Silent prayer— that gives passivity
to body surrender.
This process must be practiced to experience a feeling
o f inner impulse— in the affairs o f now. For at first,
there is indistinct recollection and a feeling o f dream illu ­
sion, then there follow s fact, and a feeling o f inner direc­
tion.
There is an everlasting contest between the body and
its functions o f reasoning— and the impression o f revela­
tion in the sleep state.
Still when events are reckoned— the powers w ithin be­
come cognizant— as active factors in doing. A n d a doing
not a part o f ordinary thinking processes. Then comes the
realization o f another and potent personality.
IT IS A G R O W IN G R E A L IZ A T IO N O F T H E P IL ­
G R IM B E IN G A P O W E R O F G O D — W IT H IN T O
C O M E A B R O A D T H R O U G H P R A Y E R .
I had been practicing rest periods fo r a long tim e w ith ­
out distinct— and above board com m unication w ith the
Pilgrim , when one night, going over the events o f the day
and in a state o f revery, I heard him calling; and saying,
"G o teach and preach it to the w orld .”
I asked, "W h at have I to teach, and w hat is there to
198 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
preach” ? H e answered, "T h e tru th .” I wondered and
then heard, "Y o u have Me— and you realize Me now. Go
tell the w orld o f Me, and o f the Prophet that leads in pray­
er. W ho talks to you— and you him . T ell them o f your
body and the tw o other personalities, w ith everyone.”
"T e ll them the w ay is in m aking the body fit through
discipline— to listen to the hidden and latent self.”
I said, " I am not prepared to teach; fo r only at times
is it possible to feel Y o u r presence, and not since the expe­
rience o f the Lodge, have I heard Y o u r voice.”
Then the Pilgrim said, "H erein is the m ystery o f the
three o f us. W e are alw ays together, but are know n and
heard only from the body— when it is in devotion. Then
the body through negation, receives our word and does
our bidding. It is shown in w orks, and so always has the
fru it o f w ork as a p roof.”
I said, " I am not prepared to teach a practice I do not
know in sequence o f direction.”
A gain H e answered, "Y o u are prepared to preach and
teach L O V E . A love that conquers all evil.
"Y o u are prepared to teach healing o f the body, for you
have and are healing the sick.
"Y o u know the methods o f healing as you know the
methods o f silent prayer.
"A s experience comes you w ill know more. A nd re­
member, this ever present urge is alw ays a call o f God to
you.”
"T h e w ay is to have love. A love that suffereth long
and is kind. A love that envyeth not, vaunteth not itself,
is not egotistic, does not behave itself unseemly, is not
easily provoked. Sees no evil, but believes w ithin all is
truth. Beareth all things, and endureth all things. A nd
is always present in every e ffo rt to correct unrighteous­
ness. In as m uch as you give this love, a love o f your own
feeling; it shall be returned, 'p ressed dow n’ and you will
know , so can teach.”
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 199
The voice faded aw ay, and I wondered. W as it a re­
m embrance o f the greatest love passages ever w ritten, or
was it a fittin g direction fo r teaching? I resolved to try
and to record the direction o f prayer and love that surely
led to subconscious understanding.
I accepted this vision as the w ay to the home o f the P il­
grim to receive inform ation— regarding im m ortal aspects
o f life.
It was not a haphazard w ay, but one o f sequence and
so can be taught in practices— that every one can do. It
is a doing before fact or result— but later has results and
so proves its ow n philosophy.
H erein, however, is the d ifficu lty in follow ing. There
is no "show m e,” save the developm ent from practices—
and these come as developments o f feeling senses— o f some­
thing present in doing— that is not ordinarily recognized.
I found through experience the feeling and m ethod o f
bringing recognition abroad.
Ju st as a constant practice o f the " I A M ” is the resurrec­
tion and the life. So do the sequences o f the Silent prayer
bring about states o f being conducive to a devotion o f the
Suprem e; and is in a constant conversation w ith the
Prophet, who is the urge o f devotion, on to that time when
there is a more com plete understanding o f the results o f
prayer in "asking-believing,” and having an answer.
Thus prayer must always be an expectancy in w hich
the body is made obedient to the God part, fo r prayer is
in disciplining, correcting and putting good in the places
o f evil. Then surely the time w ill be when there is revela­
tion o f G od’s presence.
Prayer is going to school to learn and practice rules o f
conduct to be near— associate w ith, and hear the Pilgrim .
The Pilgrim delivers the message o f the Soul when all is
peace outside.
Desire, appetite, emotions have led to conditions beyond
ordinary control, and the urge, Prophet, has turned to
200 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
prayer, out o f w hich there comes a blessed message of re­
lief. Then a voice speaks as did Jesus, " I o f m yself can
do nothing— the Father w ithin, H e doeth the w ork.”
T he principle is one o f dropping shams and asking-be­
lieving. It is m easuring powers and letting the equation
stand on the God side. T hen the "asking-believing” be­
comes easier and the Pilgrim speaks w ith a com forting
message. A s practice becomes a habit, the messages from
the Pilgrim change from seeing darkly, as if through a
colored glass, to seeing face to face.
O f course the avenue through w hich messages come,
m ust be kept clean— and this is the reason for constant
attention to the rules o f prayer. It can not be haphazard,
or o f a variation in principle, but m ust be always with a
Love g ift at the A ltar. T h at is at the time love must be
upperm ost and fo r every one.
Then the principle o f direction is fixed in resolve. The
body is cleansed by contem plation, and God is sought
through m editation. A fte r w hich is asking-believing and
a knowledge o f an answer.
R E M E M B E R IN T H IS M E T H O D O F A P P R O A C H
A L L P R A Y E R S IS A N S W E R E D ; and alw ays according
to the individual w orth.
Then prayer becomes a fixed principle— the same as
m athem atics. The individual being able to solve problems
when there is proficiency in thought, action and practice
— in being ready.
Prayer periods are fo r the purpose o f cleansing the body
from mistakes o f the past. A nd this part is meditative
silences.
T h ey are also fo r call; when there is something beyond
human possibility, such as sickness, tragedy, fear and
doubt— that must be instantly handled. Then a stillness
and a "C lick in g in” that is followed by w ork.
The first practice is preparation, and living in the sight
o f G od; and the second is calling, instantly— day or night.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 201
T h at is the w ay the "S till small voice” o f the Pilgrim is
heard. It is not really a voice— but when translated to
the senses seems a voice, fo r it is the hidden pow er answ er­
ing, " I w ill take care o f you .”
The action and dem onstration makes o f the Silent p ray­
er the greatest single discovery o f all time— in restoring
the Soul to its righ tfu l place w ithin— as a guide to the
w earying footsteps o f the body.
Though the discovery is always individual, the principle
is universal— and is always beset w ith the hinderance o f
body weakness. It is a constant struggle between the
higher and lower self, between Soul and body control.
These tw o must be welded in thought to be one. So while
living in the body and among men it is not alw ays possible
to get into com m union, because o f emotional hinderance.
The practice is to still the emotional thought. This is
called "B rain Blanking,” and is the habit o f not thinking
or carrying on in the objective, just as if there was a pass­
ing o f the body from hearing and seeing, and at that
mom ent "C lick in g in.”
It is as if the old is left behind, w ith a new present, and
w ork that is all im portant. So im portant that nothing
save it matters.
A gain and again I thank the simple practices o f h yp ­
nosis for the perfect direction o f the w ay.
I see in vision an individual separated from the objective
outlook— through sleep and awakening into another per­
sonality, that sees not nor hears as the old, but is follow ­
ing a beaten path.
The personality m ay not be spiritual, but it gives the
w ay to lay down, and to awaken into the Kingdom o f
God, where H is "w o rd ” is all.
The Prayer o f the Silence has the same direction in
principles— and the same change o f personality. N o w the
great thing in this personality o f Prayer— has an answer
202 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
that is o f benefit to all men. A n d should be the solace
and com fort o f every one.
It is to lay dow n a life to find it. T o give up the body
to know the K ingdom o f H eaven. T o give up worldly
possession to be repaid "in this life” a hundred fold and in
the next "h ave everlasting life .”
I do not know all the powers o f the Pilgrim , nor am I
fam iliar w ith all the great possibilities.
I do know that often I have lim ited them by reasoning.
I first thought them powers— that w ould heal the sick.
T h ey did— and almost all diseases responded. So much so
I thought it possible to prolong life indefinitely, but at the
same time lim ited the pow er to curing disease.
It was m arvelous to me when I found the power went
to all things and conditions. W hen I was able to so dis­
cipline m y m ind— and execute in faith.
Then business, financial and all other conditions were
as subject to the "W O R D ” just as the cure o f disease.
H ow ever, it means discipline and Faith.
E very step o f w hich comes through the Pilgrim giving
instruction by dem onstrating under condition o f intense
petition.
It was he who gave me health, taught the use o f breath,
o f vibration, and vision.
H e gave me the silent suggestion, and the activity of
love alw ays personal yet alw ays universal. For it gives
its power to every one not through the receiver— so much
as the giver.
H e gave me the Silent suggestion.
H e made me see the Expressor m ust be disciplined, for
from the expression o f love, others felt better. The ex­
pressor is w hat makes love variable, and that part is not
perm anent. Love is.
It is confusing, when one takes the inner love— as an
outer expression. Y et, love is always good, and though
expressed outw ardly, has the power o f God in it.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 203
It gives outw ardly Prosperity and happiness. For love
and the consciousness o f God as master, in a wholesome
life. Love, involuntarily or voluntarily, lead to the P il­
grim and powers beyond the ken o f men.
So love free and unafraid, became a fixed principle o f
teaching, and dem onstrating.
A love that gave and yet always had a com panionship
that sustained.
W ith love all objective study fitted into the subjective
— to m ake religion a living, vital thing. W ith prayer, the
means o f living in the "K in gd om o f heaven.”
I AMI
C h a pter X X I
G E T T IN G A C Q U A IN T E D W IT H T H E S U B JE C T IV E
B Y O B JE C T IV E P R A C T IC E S
N o w comes an analysis o f m y ow n Love consciousness—
the result being a love attitude at the beginning of all
prayer. One that m ust be cultivated, classified and put
into active use as a part o f all feeling.
SO T H E N E C E S S IT Y O F F IX IN G L O V E A S A
P R IN C IP L E — though alw ays, and no m atter how used—
love is the same.
"G reater love hath no man than that he lay down his life
fo r a frien d .” A nd "L o ve ye one another as I have loved
yo u ,” are tw o o f the m any expressions o f the Master,
m eaning love must always be in everything, and expressed
in self surrender.
In this attitude o f doing— it gets its greatest reward.
A nd when the doing is from w ithin— to save or help—
there is nothing greater in all the world.
Then it is giving o f its all for another w ithout apparent
rew ard. A nd that is the measure o f Christ, as a supreme
expression.
The emotions o f the body are fanned into action
through association o f mental and physical likes, and that
other invisible something— that makes m an and woman
come together, "forsakin g all others.”
It is the m aturity of grow th and the natural feeling of
the Sex instinct, w ith that other something that gives to
life its hope o f im m ortality.
So m an and wom an love is expressed in story and song
and is perpetuated by rem em bering the great moments of
[204]
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 205
its own experience and the power and glory o f happy as­
sociation. B u t even as great as is the glory o f living to­
gether— "forsakin g all others” w ith love at hom e; there is
another kind o f expression mentioned by Christ— that is
even greater.
It is greater because it adds to Physical the non-posses-
sive— to give the power o f God to others— w ithout re­
straint.
It is the principle o f giving to receive and also a d if­
ferent principle, for it does not require an affectionate
response.
H ow ever it is affectionate, friendly, com panionable,
compassionate. A something o f Sym pathy that is content
in giving. A something that changes the body and mind
into a m agnetic force and a personality radiant happi­
ness.
It is cultivated in resolve, to have w ithin a feeling o f
peace, contentm ent and happiness. It is cultivated to
have and hold— love as the one great and lasting principle
in life. A something that w ill not grow old w ith age or
be subject to the wiles o f body desire.
A something to withstand the body pricks o f discontent,
sickness and tragedy, because within, it has the pow er to
cure all these.
One m ust be convinced of this and to live in the belief,
"P erfect love casteth out all evil.” Keep this thought
constant in "rest periods” and out of them. For surely
love lives upon its gifts o f power— and receive as is given.
So the natural w ay is to cultivate in the Silence its poten­
tial force and carry that to the world in peace, friendli­
ness and joy.
The power o f joy and peace is God given and is the
result o f m editation in the "rest periods,” wherein are
taken the trials of the day in introspective prayer.
It is the filling station o f God who gives o f love because
the body is relaxed and w anting. It comes as a complete-
I
206 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
ness to asking in peace— and m ust be experienced— to be
know n.
It is a fillin g up o f feeling in place o f the useless, dis­
agreeable and unstable as a reservoir o f love that is for
everybody. A som ething on tap to use as the chores of the
day. For alw ays it is a messenger going through the years
and accum ulating in pow er as age adds experience.
It is great when, as the M aster taught, it encompasses
all the w orld to give and give to banish evil.
For Christ gave it as a w orld power. A n d as man uses
it, it becomes a universal g ift to heal and rescue. It is in
everything and alw ays the G ift at the A ltar.
There are m any experiences in individual contacts that
helped to shape the principle as being abstract, yet per­
sonal when the Pilgrim is approached.
These personal loves are all the same in principle, for
alw ays it is a giving power, for naturally this giving fol­
lows rule in attraction as that o f m an to wom an, or wom ­
an and man. T h at is, all love m ust have a negative to
receive positive action. A n d this is potent in m an and
wom an love.
H ow ever it is a principle o f giving and receiving— for
one m ust be receptive to the influence, while another
gives. So the natural law is one o f receptivity to a great
principle.
Thus the "rest periods” are the basis o f receiving from
the " I A M ” and the fillin g o f body and m ind— thus made
complete— is the basis of giving to another; and is a love
feeling at the time o f expression.
M y first great experience in fixin g the law o f giving
was w ith Lula, who came to me as a patient, while I was
still busy in fixin g the principle o f abstraction in love—
as a hypnotising power.
I had a great deal o f trouble in overcom ing fear in
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 207
hypnotising, until the love principle allowed the process
to go on from w ithin.
Then she came— came as I was talking love. A love that
conquers. So naturally we discussed love.
I thought I could cure her disease, and said, "W ith God
all things are possible.” She said she believed that, and so
we began treatm ent o f her ailing body.
W e started w ith rest periods— and personal treatm ents.
T h at is, she took regular times o f rests, and I treated her
personally, by passes and rubbing, letting m y fingers
quiver, as if giving o ff an invisible pow er o f love— from
head to heart and down the back.
She was inform ed it was necessary to take love into the
silence. A love o f everybody.
I spoke o f love being a cure in personal treatm ent. A
love expressed in " I love you .” A love that is the greatest
thing in all the world.
She responded rem arkably and seemed to be about well.
W e had m any talks about love. She clinging to the
personal, and I tryin g to combine the one w ith the other.
I said, "Personal love is the w ay the divine is expressed.”
She said, " It is the same, fo r 'I L O V E Y O U ’ is alw ays the
same, no m atter what is back o f it.”
She said, "M r. M an, you have repeatedly said you love
me, God loves me. Y o u r fingers tremble as you treat.
In your eyes there is a luminousness that tells o f love. So
it is the same love I have, and all have who love. W h y
not be honest w ith it?”
I knew there was a difference, not in love, but in its
activity.
I was curing Lula. She had forgotten love can cure—
and not possess. Lula said, "L ets make it last forever.”
W e tried, but there is a difference in the attitude that
is the expressor.
One is possessive and wants all.
The other is not so possessive, and has this difference—
208 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
it w ants to give, to the needy, the sore o f heart, the sick
and all in poverty.
I as a disciple could not lim it its pow er to personal pos­
session. G od love w ill not be bound, for o f itself is free
and unafraid.
Lula could not m aintain this attitude, even though
know ing there are tw o loves in expression. One PO S­
S E S S IV E and the other A B S T R A C T . A ll the world has
one, and only a few the other.
A bstract love is the cause o f gossip— o f those who stand
afar o ff, condem ning.
Lula heard this, listened and lost. H er sickness returned
after falling from grace, and then in a year or so she passed
on.
I wondered if there was a w ay by w hich love could be
expressed, one to another, and from m an to wom an, w ith­
out leaving a sting, that m eant surrender o f power.
I resolved to try, and found the way.
It is the silence of love— and the expression of it in feel­
ing without words.
I asked the Pilgrim about the plan and he said: "T he
flesh calls fo r expression, while the Soul is ever Silent.
H ow ever the Soul never comes abroad— unless the body
expresses love— and this is better in the Silence— though
the urge is to speak o f it, as you have.
So herein is the "straight and narrow path” o f discre­
tion.
Speak o f love only after it is tried and true, and has
been nourished in friendship and loyalty.
Let it be after " great works,” instead of before.
” Then Love spoken is in giving thanks.”
M ary was a positive character. She came in m y lectur­
ing period.
She came to question m y power o f H ypnosis, saying, " It
looked like fake to her.”
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 2 0 9
She wanted to be put under test, and developed under
hypnosis— into a C lairvoyant.
She was also skeptical and laughed m uch at m y "love
religion,” became vexed and said, " I t is so unnatural. Y o u
think your love power puts me into hypnosis, but I know
better, for really, I do not think you have ever h ypn o­
tized m e.”
I said, "N o , not the Soul, but your body and personal­
ity goes under a change, and you can call that w hat you
m ay.
"A n y w a y , under the influence, you do and see things
not possible otherwise,” and asked her if she thought it
possible by her ow n volition?
Then she said, she had just been fooling me. I told her
to resist and find out.
She did, and hypnotism w ent on.
It went on because I had love that feared no evil.
It saw the thing done— before the start, and so had no
resistance from M ary.
H er C lairvoyance then became o f a character that
opened the door to "m igth y powers.”
It wore down her egotism, and gave her that something
she never before possessed. A fte r one o f the meetings,
she said, " I would love to have this thing, you call 'G O D
L O V E ’,” and then asked, "is it a secret?” " N o ,” I said,
"ju st sacred” .
It seemed to her that it must be fo r she had not seen
others w ith the possession.
I told her that it seemed so, but really was not, but rath ­
er a something that had to be wooed, as one wooes an­
other.
It does not make one perfect, but helps that w ay.
H ow ever, it is love; a love that is personal when applied
— and a love that is abstract— when com ing from God.
M ary would be adverse at times, then again weak and
210 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
tired. She w ould have moods, and refuse to work, but
after the task was over w ould invariably say, "W ell, you
made me do it again, and I am feeling better.”
So I realized her resistance was o f the body and mind,
that had little or nothing to do w ith the inner powers of
her Pilgrim .
She said, "T h is Pilgrim o f yours— that you say I also
have— is a m ysterious som ething I cannot touch. So, in
m y rest periods, I just go to sleep, and get nothing. M ay­
be you had better ask him w hat is w rong w ith m e?”
On being asked, the Pilgrim responded b y saying: "A s­
suredly there m ust be a separation o f the tw o loves— in
rest periods. One m ust have supreme devotion to God,
that w ill give force to the other— in personal contacts.”
Possessive love is fo r the fam ily, fo r physical associa­
tion— and fo r living one w ith the other.
The other is not the same, fo r it lives w ith another—
or others— but alw ays G od love is a universal power, per­
sonally applied. It therefore merges the personal posses­
sive into the personal universal, by laying o ff the cloak of
restraint to give all it has, to help another.
Such powers unfold— the hidden and latent as did hyp­
notism in the case o f M ary. It gave her a change o f per­
sonality— to see and know , though she did not remember
in the norm al self, the powers were alw ays her’s.
I told her o f m y revelation through the P IL G R IM and
she answered: "T h e good old love is good enough fo r me.
It is something I can understand— just as is the 'Good old
Religion’.”
I seemed to hear a voice saying: "L o ve is a very thinning
religion” but remembered one man had changed the
thought o f the western w orld by it.
H e had scoffers and doubters— who have passed, but
his religion has endured.
T hrough her, I learned the lesson o f separation o f the
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 211
possessive— from the universal, and to stay upon the side
of the abstract, in giving God to m ankind.
A nother separating time o f love, and love’s law — came
through a little boy, some nine or ten years o f age, who
had a tubercular bone— caries it is called— from the knee
to ankle. It had rotted and left a separating distance o f
about four inches.
I began by holding him on m y lap and gently rubbing
the leg. H e began to get better, and then I realized I
was doing something else, for m y hands trem bled— as if
fire was passing from them to the child, and the bone be­
gan grow ing together.
This was without the consent o f the parents— and be­
cause I was a boarder at their home. A nd m oreover, it
came on as an act o f sym pathy.
A fte r a little while he began to expect me to hold him,
saying, "Y o u m ake me feel so good.”
A nd while he was getting better, he seemed to turn
from his parents on m y approach— to ask to be held and
his leg soothed. It made them jealous, as if I had taken
something, and so they asked me to discontinue.
It made me realize even the pow er o f God is so great—
it always cures— should be asked fo r before being given.
Jarrett, the little boy, however, kept grow ing in grace,
and his bone healed. H e came to me long years after­
w ard to thank me.
Thus through a little child I had another experience,
that made me know S Y M P A T H Y often cures.
I asked the Pilgrim about it and he said: "Sym p ath y is
akin to love, is always good and always helps those con­
tacted, but often results in misunderstanding and so should
be given silently— or when approached for help.”
It is Faith in the substance o f things, and an evidence
o f the hidden com ing abroad.
212 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
N o w , Love and im m orality is d ifferen t— fo r immorality
is desire w ithout com pensation.
The sex relationship o f m an and wom an is law and
natural from adolesence, and all naturally have the urge.
It is often called love— but fa r m ore often— is desire to
satisfy an inner feeling.
A biologist who came for lessons asked for an explana­
tion o f the laws o f concourse— and the urge to keep such
relationship secret as if non existing.
H e said, "K now ledge banishes evil— and ignorance, and
you seem to have a secret source o f inform ation— through
w hat you call the Pilgrim or Prophet, so let these tell the
tru th .”
The Prophet took his problem in prayer, and the Pil­
grim answered the biologist’s question.
H e said, "L o ve and desire are not the same. Desire is
a physical urge— alike to food, and is alw ays a w ant;
while love is a principle o f giving harm ony from God to
m an and from one to another.”
"L o ve gives, and desire wants. It is the ecstacy o f sensa­
tion— that makes desire resemble love.”
Desire brings the sexes together— in sym pathy when
their thought and action harm onize. Then magnetism
calls fo r closeness, petting and affections sway.
It m ay be love, and then again only desire. There is
a differentiation.
Sex is the hidden unspoken part, w ith fear holding them
apart.
It is the fear o f the ages— and cannot be improved
upon.
For it is the secret sorrow ful confession o f the body
being greater than the Soul. So all turn to the Soul for
understanding.
" In the Spirit, these things exist and love demands as­
sociation; but in as m uch as Love is p u rity there cannot
be im m orality. So love com ing forth cleanses sense feel-
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 213
ing, until there is only one m ating; and that is where
love is free and u nafraid.”
T H U S L O V E B A N IS H E S IM P U R IT Y F O R L O V E
H A S N O E V IL . H ere are the master requirem ents.
"L o ve ye one another as I have loved you. Love has
no evil, therefore, is never im pure.”
"T h e body is a supplier o f the Sex feeling, but this is an
energy giving feeling— that can be used in w ork.”
So sex is more o f the energy o f w ork— than o f desire.
W ith the Sex gland, there is a gland energy, that w orks
in coordination w ith sex in bringing the kingdom .
Perfect love finds the w ay. Physical desire never does.
"So seek ye first the Kingdom o f God and then all other
things are added unto you.”
"T o keep free, relax at rest periods. Use resolve and
devotion to w ork and remember, God is on one side and
decay on the other. Sex is a means tow ard long life, but
sex also kills. Choose ye, fo r control— is law .”
The Col. came, because of m y repeating messages from
the Pilgrim .
H e said, " I am a believer in Spiritualism and I think
you can help m e.”
I answered I was not a Spiritualist so m uch as a spiritist.
M y Spirit being a force w ithin that any one w ith study—
and a follow ing o f rule— can attain.
H e said he wanted to know , and after subm itting to
hypnosis, came through w ith a revelation that he had
lived before, and asked fo r further experience.
Later he had a greater knowledge— ending w ith one
o f m y teachers visiting— in the Astral. H e came into our
presence as one in the flesh, and sitting down, began to
discuss, "the bodies o f m an.”
H e said, "T h a t there is spirit life, or else the Colonel
could not have remembered previous lives.”
214 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
H e said, "O n e body did not rem em ber, but the other
did.”
This other is the Pilgrim and individually resides w ith­
in the body— until em ancipated b y love— becom ing mas­
ter o f the body.
Love frees the body by controlling desires and appetites
and putting something good in the place o f evil. It brings
to the w orld masters to help others, and that is its supreme
power.
The M aster departed— as if fading aw ay, yet left a peace
that overcom e emotions and gave the impression o f love
m astering everything. A nd love— a practice all have and
use, but few indeed go into the refining o f it— to meet all
things o f the body face to face, holding to the good and
banishing evil.
This is the method o f having love alw ays to heal the
sick, cast out devils— and preach an acceptable doctrine.
Prove all things, holding fast to that w hich is true.
I had proven the method o f contact w ith the Pilgrim .
I had found the C o m fo rt o f the Prophet— in leading me
to prayer, and the release that comes by strict prayer and
fasting. H ow ever there is great need o f certainty in the
mental attitude o f approach. Belief is easy and feelings
o f elation often stop progress o f the true.
So ecstacy o f feeling is largely substituted fo r the laws
o f Christ. It is conversion— and elation, instead o f doing
and doing as a test o f truth. T ru th was H is w ay, for al­
w ays there was a dem onstration o f power.
It is so now . The processes o f going w ithin are the
result o f practices, and so it is to fix the mind in funda­
mentals and then produce evidence o f power.
In rearrangem ent o f study and practice, is to discover
the illusive w ay and the non-conform ative and measure
and do aw ay w ith them by principles o f action-giving re­
sults.
There are m any expressions in the phenomenal world
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 215
not true. Some, like Spiritualism , true and not true. A s in
baptism, an outer acceptance o f an inner direction—
w ithout dem onstration. O r the method o f holy com ­
m union— an outer rite— that does not mean an inner body
com ing forth. O r as a medium to reveal— when the body
has passed.
The grow th o f the spirit is to leave the untrue, or to
fit m istaken expression to a com pletion o f law and truth.
T h at is the method o f progress. First, it is in healing
the sick and revealing the law o f it. Then, onw ard to
the m ighty control o f Spirit. A lw ays adding to that
which is know n— the other something— to m ake more
known.
A young m other lay dying. H er child but a few days
old— could not be nourished because she had no m ilk.
Then I came— clicked in— touched her breast, and the
m ilk came.
H er people— and those around, called it a m iracle. It
was prayer being answered. Answ ered w ithout words.
Jim came. H e had an old sore on his ankle. It had
not been healed for a long time. W e sat in the Silence
and when m y hand quivered over the ulcer it began to
form a skin and in a few minutes healed over.
H is w ife looked on wondering, and called it a m iracle.
It was prayer and an answer. A ll because conditions
had been fu lfilled— to let the Messenger o f God come
forth in healing.
So always when I do not know — I talk to the Prophet
and we take our problems into the Silence. T h at is the
simple plan o f prayer. It m ust have faith and practices
that leave nothing out o f the form ula o f practice. One
must w ait and repeat until knowledge is complete. Then
the practice o f the Silent prayer is the greatest blessing
It is me— to the Prophet, and H e— to the Pilgrim ,
upon earth.
I AMI
C h apter X X II
T H E S P IR IT A N D S O U L A W A IT T H E B O D Y
P R E P A R A T IO N IN P R A C T IC E S
I am not unm indful o f the fact, Spiritual forces unfold
slow ly and as the body is prepared to subm it.
T h ey at first are seen and felt as if "looking through
a glass darkly” ; alw ays beginning in practices o f body con­
trol in the simpler m atters o f life— alike unto the sugges­
tive principles o f hypnotism . The pivoting o f the eyes—
o f a sensitive— and the strokes dow nw ard w ith the hands
that lull the senses to rest.
It is simple, but alike to a m other’s lullaby does gives
sleep. W hen that sleep comes, there is nothing much
more to it than experience at first.
Then exercises m ake o f the sleeping body an awakening
one— w ith another personality. Still there is no much
save the phenomena. Bu t if there is persistence— there is
an open door to the world o f hidden phenomena— and the
power o f a being w ithin the body— givin g greater powers
than the body knows, and also solving the m any queer
and hidden things com ing abroad— the reasoning part of
man can not know .
The same principle follow s prayer. The call upon the
" I A M ” is alw ays something o f belief— and the m antra
is one o f acceptance. Still when repeated often, and as a
prelim inary to prayer— results in a feeling o f Faith and
belief no physical understanding w ill give.
Tbus, we begin to know the "I A M ” is the personal of
God and that it is always within. This comes dimly at
[216]
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 217
first— then is apparent because the way is known to con­
tact.
The approach to this m ighty principle is through rec­
ognizing another principle, and that is a part o f the outer
man and is that thing the body and mind involuntarily
talks to in times o f w orry or doubt.
It too m ust have a name because it is real to all who
have consistently advanced tow ard God. Its name is the
Prophet, for thus is given individuality to that part all
use in talking their problems over— as if talking to another
self.
H e is know n to be personal and called m any things—
from the H igher self— to the Prophet— and inner con­
science. W hat is not generally accepted is, that he is also
a direct com m unicator to all the impulses o f the body and
carries these in prayer to the " I A M ” . Then he is as
surely a receiver in the body o f the messages brought
by the " I A M ” messenger called the P IL G R IM .
N ow , as long as these remain terms— and not personali­
ties— there w ill not be the Solace and com fort o f know ing
the direct road o f overcom ing the pricks, sorrows, sick­
nesses, poverty and unhappiness o f the body through
prayer.
N o r w ill there be those greater revelations to give the
body knowledge o f the Kingdom o f heaven here upon
earth.
A ll o f these conceptions come slow ly— and through
practices that makes the personalities active agents both
in going to God and having a return messenger.
T h ey come through by practices of prayer in the calm
of personality; of "click in g in” and o f m aking the body
obedient. A n d this is the Prophet part, to do— and
record.
H e it is— that calls the body to w ork, fixes the process
of practice— and makes w ay fo r the Pilgrim to do the
work.
218 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
H e records the w ork upon the body part, and so we
three w ork together in all the processes o f going to the "I
A M ” , and o f know ing him. This too, is at first, in the
sim pler things o f believing and doing. Later they become
more com plex, when the body has learned to be a servant;
very m uch as the Sensitive has learned to obey command
in hypnosis. Then this part is fixed, and there begins
"M ig h ty w orks” .
Now the time had covie in my development for an in­
dividual effort to go beyond the body into the realm of
Spirit.
It is said that one leaves the body— through being tired,
by the privilege o f birth, or through drugs and incanta­
tion.
I knew o f the practices to be silent.
I knew o f tiredness giving relaxation.
I also had the resolve to go. So, on that night, when
asleep in the Body, I heard the Soul call o f the Prophet
saying:
"A w ak en Spirit, and come forth while the body is
asleep” .
I awakened, but not the body o f me. T h at still slept.
Then I realized I was looking upon the body w ith another
personality, just as surely as I— the body had been.
Listening, I heard the Pilgrim saying, " Y O U did it and
your prayers are answered, so you w ill alw ays know ” .
Then I knew I was the personal irradiation o f what
the body has, as thought, character and conscience. I am
also a Soul messenger— and when free from the body—
do carry messages for the Pilgrim .
M y object and destiny is to associate w ith them in all
they do.
I have been called the H O L Y Ghost and C om forter
and live close to the Father w ithin and H is Pilgrim .
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 2 1 9
A gain I am differen t from both. For I live in the
body, but have the power o f talking to it.
The Pilgrim lives w ithin the body but does not talk,
save when the body is laid down. A t other times I relay
his messages and record his w ork.
I am the Breath, M agnetism , and the Sheath o f the body.
Also the pattern by w hich the shape grows.
I also carry from one incarnation to another— the K a r­
ma o f previous body lives.
I am the personal confessor, and also the part w hich
cares for the body on these journeys.
W hile the body is asleep, I am so intim ate that when
it does awake, it w ill remember the happenings o f this ex­
perience the same as if it had been along. For it is the
mechanism o f associated ideas— o f the know n and u n ­
know n— to make the latter know n. So really it is alike
to a child listening to older people o f things to be know n.
I am universal, because a part o f every living creature,
but only know n— by experience and association.
In the beginning o f this know n, I am fu ll o f illusions
because o f body association and the lim itations o f ignor­
ance.
N o w I heard the call o f hurry, as if there was an em er­
gency call. I looked at the body expecting, and so looked
again and found the call was from those present.
I heard the Pilgrim saying, "B e not afraid, fo r you are
not disconnected w ith the sleeping body. For it w ill be
the means o f recording experiences w ith freed Souls— or
sleeping ones” .
I asked his m eaning; and was told we were about to
visit H eaven. Not the meaningless earth bound idea, but
a heaven o f peace, un ity and love.
Then he continued, "there are those here also experienc­
ing hell, and so I m ight say we are on a visit to the un­
righteous also” .
220 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
I asked the location— and was answered, "H ere”—
upon earth; but on a d ifferen t plane, and so invisible to
physical eyes.
It is a resting place— and one o f assimilation after
death o f the body, and also a place o f m eeting for freed
souls, their life and home.
It is where they visit w ith earth Souls, to direct indi­
vidual life, and the life o f peoples, nations, and races at
home. B u t it is alw ays here.
"N o w the difference is that in Heaven there is neither
marriage or giving in marriage. For in H eaven there is no
creation o f bodies, and so that portion is left to the earth” .
There are those here who are are earth bound— and they
are in w hat the earth bound call hell. So the Christ state­
m ent o f H eaven is true. T ru e as to location and condi­
tion. "F o r lo here, lo there the K ingdom o f H eaven is
w ithin you— w ith all men pressing into it” .
The Pilgrim seemed to be listening to an elderly man
standing near and turning, I saw a benevolent man stand­
ing close to the head o f the bed where m y body reclined,
giving direction to other and younger men about putting
m y body in a position o f rest and com fort— and making
passes to keep it asleep.
The elderly man said, "T h is is but a hypnotic practice
to protect the body from harm while you and the Pilgrim
are aw ay” . It is differen t from ordinary hypnotism — for
here is given the protection o f G uardian angels that acts
as sentinels while we (Prophet and P ilgrim ), are away.
The elderly person proved to be a G reat M aster and an
authority from the home "o ver there” , who gave to those
w orthy, a solution to m any o f the body mysteries.
I said, "Y o u are to take the Pilgrim on a 'Far Jou rn ey’
and I am to record. A nd this is for the purpose o f giving
instruction to m y people, is it n o t?”
H e said, "Y es, that is the object” .
So while he was talking to the Pilgrim , I was the re-
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 221
corder, fo r on earth we three are one. So the experience
were to the three o f us and especially to the sleeping body
when it awakened and was conscious o f the experience.
H e said, "W e are going to visit those who have come
tem porarily, and to those who abide, as well as that other
considerable class alike unto you, who are visiting fo r in­
form ation, and who to the earth— are w hat are called
Masters. Masters because of initiation into the m ysteries” .
Starting to go w ith the M aster and Pilgrim I felt an
urge to look back upon the sleeping body and saw a light
silvery ray going from the head and heart and follow ing
us. T h at is the connecting plasma between the body
and soul, and follow s all out o f the body but is severed at
death. It remains a connecting force as the one some­
thing— that fears separation.
The M aster said, "W h at you are looking at is the 'L ife
w ave’ and is the prem onitor o f fear, yet all m ust experi­
ence the separation, and m any do— w ithout the know in g” .
It was so w ith Peter and Correlius’ vision or dream, re­
corded in the Epistles.
Vision impresses its substance upon the plastic brain
and then becomes personal w ith the Ego.
W hile dreams are the result o f disordered nerve centers
or the result o f fragm ents o f the past. In these— there is
no preparation— and so d iffer from vision and Soul sep­
aration.
The preparation of Soul— in separation— as now ex­
perienced— is in devotion to w ithin principles, while exer­
cising outside practices to make the body respond. Then
the recording o f these experiences upon the body is
through principles and resolve.
The principle of surrender is in negation, the principle
o f recording is positive direction from the Pilgrim . A ll
o f w hich is intended to give to the sleeping body the law
and w ay o f receiving from the Soul, things to do in daily
222 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
tasks— to be alw ays on the G od side o f the ledger. Now
we are ready to proceed.
The tw o younger men had com pleted the body arrange­
m ent, and the study o f Soul-life was on. It was another
plane o f thought o f higher, and greater knowledge.
The planes are fou r in num ber— starting w ith the phy­
sical and ending in the Spiritual. T h ey are subdivided
into seven degrees each. Starting in each plane with the
gross and ending in the refined.
Thus the body w ithout training is gross. B y education,
culture and reflection, it becomes refined and that is noted
in texture o f skin, elasticity o f body— reflective tones in
speech and intelligence o f expression.
The grades are all the w ay from the prehistoric man
and prim itive races, to the cultured, that allow other and
higher intelligence to predom inate.
So in the body pattern, these grade express grow th ac­
cording to w ithin standards. A nd w ithin the body is the
m agnetism o f the earth and body— that give affability,
contentm ent and urge to go on. It is that something
alw ays calling fo r higher states o f being.
T h e M ind plane is as the body— only refined into
thought being. It starts w ith prim itive thought and goes
through the successive stages o f developm ent in that which
has been accepted— and the discovered. It is a progressive
m ental life, from the humble to the exhalted based upon
culture.
It carries w ith it a magnetism o f being and separates
the true from the false. The real from the doubtful and
when separated— as you are now, has a covering or body,
called the Sheath. Som ething that is hard to expand be­
yond— and is the reason for traditional learning. For he
who goes beyond is alone— in an unexplored mental field.
These are the pioneers that lift the cloak o f hidden m ys­
tery— even to the unknow n.
T h ey take the m aterial study to the Electron— or a part
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 223
of the atom. Further they cannot go m aterially. So
they take it to the outer door o f infinitude— then the Soul
plane comes into consciousness, and the body and m ind
are transposed into the realm o f the " I A M ” .
The Soul plane also starts w ith the gross or m aterial
form s o f worship. It is a fact, almost all men have to
have some physical thing to tie devotion to. O nce it was
Token, Icons, form s o f dancing and o f posture. It goes
on from these as the w orld o f thought adds reason, e x ­
perience giving religion and revelation from an outer
God— to an inner presence.
T o approach this inner presence is, and has been the
problem o f religious scientists fo r m any eeons.
H ere and there comes a Christ or M aster, to teach and
preach the w ay by doing the works. W orks that help
human kind in their daily life.
This is always regarding health, happiness and prosper­
ity, without which there cannot be the harm ony neces­
sary to bring the Soul forw ard in the affairs o f man.
It is here introspective analysis begins w ith the Silence
prayer. It is to so teach practice and believe in the silent
approach, to the " I A M ” , and then follow these teachings
and practices until there is a separating time— such as you
have now.
It is experiencing here— to teach there. So remember,
to carry all received back to the body, for that w ill be the
mode o f teaching from now on.
The Spiritual Plane is the consciousness o f God, the
U niversal, and it also has degrees o f enlightenm ent. Start­
ing w ith the gross conception, and going to all there is o f
A ll. It is the basis o f All and the ultim ate o f hum an u n ­
derstanding. It is entered by atonement— and in no other
w ay” .
Thus spoke the M aster about the Planes.
So I knew I was in another w orld o f experience, and had
224 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
attained the privilege, b y fa ith fu lly follow ing rule and
exercising the body into obedience. N o w I was using the
Soul portion o f me in actual contact.
Then I heard the M aster speaking to the Pilgrim of the
Souls in H eaven.
M ost were sleeping— the e ffect o f earth life aw ay and
seemed in d ifferen t degrees o f shrinking.
I was told as the sins o f all earth conditions were assimi­
lated and as the Soul prepared to know , the body form
got less and less, as the Soul put on the m ental and then
the Spiritual.
It then became the nebula fo r rebirth; having lost the
previous pattern and having another in design according
to progress o f previous life upon the planes given.
There were other Souls free from the earth life in that
they had attained freedom through grow th. T h ey were
the Teachers o f the race— and gave the urge to body
beings to go tow ard God.
A ll souls have a night o f sleep— and a day o f awaken­
ing— the same as here.
T h ey converse one w ith another and are the same as
here save in the tw o distinctions.
Their supply o f food is not necessary and there is no
m arriage. So the things we hold dear here, are not a part
o f life there. T h ey never com m unicate, or rarely, with
the people o f the earth plane. A n d these are the earth
bound, who are held by sin not yet expiated. A ll the
rest are going tow ard the plane o f Spirit— and the free­
dom and un ity o f the universal.
T o do so, there is naturally the recurrence o f birth—
and the constant test o f the outer against the inner—
until sins o f omission and commission are both conquered.
M y M aster said, "A s you see, the same form s are here— ?
and shaped into personalities— as upon earth. T h ey are
o f a higher vibration— and therefore, invisible to earth
people— though w ith them. N o w you being separated
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 225
from the body can see, know and talk to them.
" I t is a principle o f the Soul com ing here, instead o f
these going back. In fact, they cannot, because their
body has returned to the 'dust from whence it cam e’.”
It is the invisible body that has perception on this plane
and not the physical. A nd it is this pow er your body has,
to percieve the cause o f disease in other bodies.
A s a Pilgrim , you are the subconscious counselor o f the
body, and always through spirit contacting m ind and
brain activity.
Y o u r Vision belongs to the Spiritual plane— and is
aroused through soul activity; o f and in connection w ith
mind. This is going from w ithin outw ard— and is alw ays
the stillness o f body and mind— as a "click in g in process” .
So remember, preparation is in laying dow n the body.
Then I heard the Master talking to the Pilgrim , say­
ing, "Y o u are a freed Soul, and on this plane can contact
any one you wish, by the very wish therefor. For thought
is instant” .
This is the same principle o f vision and thought trans­
ference as in the body, only your pow er m ust come
through.
Vision is not a m ental or physical acquirem ent, but
spiritual— and is by control o f the body— in practices o f
discipline and restraint until the Spirit gives the message
to physical consciousness.
The M aster continued, "T h ere is another great d iffe r­
ence that m ust always be. It is that the Body, mind and
Prophet are tem porary, while the Pilgrim — as a Soul— is
everlasting.”
The Pilgrim is the force that gives the body its inspira­
tion of devotion and the Prophet— and that part always
as an urge to devotion. The Prophet talks to the body,
and the body talks to it as if it had form . Also the body
is convinced o f answers to questions— and so this rela­
tionship is intim ate.
226 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
The Pilgrim has not this intim ate talking, save through
the Prophet. H ow ever, there is the urge o f doing, with
the Pilgrim w orking, as if it were the body and mind.
So to outer seeing the three are one.
Rem em ber, these are lessons o f pow er, and so take them
to the body, but rem em ber not to confound one with the
tw o others.
The Spirit is your Pilgrim — and is a messenger o f the
" I A M ” . D o not get the freedom o f the Spirit confound­
ed w ith im agination.
D o not allow the Ego to direct thought o f spirit.
The body is instinctive and emotional.
The Brain has thought o f mind powers, but belong to
the body. It has reasoning to battle from without—
inw ard.
The soul is w ithout reason— for it is the realm of revela­
tion.
The spirit is the all from w hich the " I A M ” manifests
through law .
The whole process is grow th from out to the within—
and then the laws o f G od go through and out to do
"M ig h ty w orks” .
"N o w I am about to leave you, fo r I have given the
instruction you m ust m ake a part o f body life. It is to
m ake you a Pilgrim and your body or higher self, a Pro­
phet” .
So the privilege o f service began. I am going to tell
o f it under the influence o f the Prophet and Pilgrim , for
" I o f m yself, know nothing” .
I A M I
C hapter X X III
T H E M E A N IN G O F T H E T H R E E P E R S O N A L IT IE S
T O M E . T H E Y A R E O N E .
Thus through experience I knew in part the laws o f
the Soul.
The Prophet being an interm ediary w ith pow er to im ­
press experiences, while talking to the Pilgrim and going
with him— and of talking to me if as I too, had been along,
made unfolding Spiritual law a something o f practical
worth.
So on awakening to the consciousness o f M E, w ith m y
body aglow w ith energy, I began to reconstruct the ex­
periences o f the night before. I knew I was out o f the
body, in spirit, and that the body was asleep at the time,
and yet it felt as if it had been along.
The body is a part o f "Som ething” that makes up the
whole o f life. The urge to know and the final release— is
all a body sensation— giving knowledge. Then the urge
becomes a fact w ith the Prophet and Pilgrim associates
w ith it.
The release o f the Pilgrim was not m y first experience,
but the first o f its kind— to go for law and return princi­
ples o f action.
I knew I had the experience of sleep, and an awakening
after the event. N o w I wondered if there w ould be a
time, in w hich there would be a voluntary separation at
will.
I was sure there would be a time.
N o w I learned from m y elderly friend there is a distinct
[227]
228 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
difference in the planes o f life, and there are distinctive
practices— to be constantly m aintained— to make the
body and m ind fit.
I had to go to G od in Prayer.
I had to have love at the A ltar, and to express love in
confidence and devotion as som ething beyond the con­
necting ties o f the body.
"L eave all and follow m e” — indicated fam ily love was
not enough.
Love is in fam ily attachm ent, but God love has another
base. The base o f eternity, and alw ays the same. Its
com plim ent is happiness, health, joy, peace and abundance.
A n d these are beyond the body, though in it.
It is not m aking God— I, but the I o f me— working
to arouse the " I o f God w ith in ” — and give its messenger
freedom .
It is accomplished b y the principle o f calling and re­
peating the m antra o f— " I A M the resurrection and the
life” , until the feeling o f "Presence” is near.
I had to m ake the laws o f vision true in thought action
and test them the same as all laws are tested— by demon­
stration.
The Pilgrim w ithin must be the same feeling o f uni­
versality as I have o f love. The same as in all.
The only difference being in the expressor.
H e is that something that has no lim itation; for being
a G od personality— has the pow er o f overcom ing "all evil”
— so is a M aster association, alw ays w illing and always
w aiting.
T o m ake that association perfect was to cultivate the
Prophet and his relation to the Pilgrim and Me.
I f this relationship carried m y burdens to him and
through him to the Pilgrim — w ith works follow ing— I
had the basis o f a m ighty philosophy— and this is what
it is in fact and truth. A philosophy that reveals m y way
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 229
o f going to G od-w ithin, and the w ay H is messages are de­
livered.
I, therefore m ust be intim ate w ith the Prophet, and
take m y problems to him.
I m ust hear his answer, as conscience answers desire.
I m ust obey and follow . A nd this means prayer.
A Prayer that has become instant, because used as a
m antra and one o f clicking in— to the other state.
I know he goes w ith the Pilgrim — when out o f the
body, and calls the Pilgrim to w ork w ithin, givin g that
something that always heals.
I know all visits to the Spirit-land are for the purpose
to bring law that is helpful— and w ill disabuse me o f
foolish, traditional practices and beliefs.
I know the plan is to be free from ignorance and to ac­
cept believing— other and better things— regarding the
Soul and heaven, that can be proven here and now. So
I am on a surer basis o f grow th.
Thus, it is to make the new and the affairs o f the day
fit into these hidden associates and abide w ith them in all
things. And that is conversion from the old desire and
traditional way to a new and absolute. Absolute because
of law.
It is to change in belief from the outer to an inner au­
thority, w ith love and resolve to do better all the time,
w ith an a biding faith in these tw o associates.
T o make practical use o f the Prophet and Pilgrim as a
part o f arrangem ent going to God, I used suggestion to
separate the tw o, but now the difference became clear,
w ith the Prophet the mediator. The one o f me asking-
believing— the other listening, answering.
A nd both met in the Silence.
The Prophet is not me nor the Pilgrim , but an associa­
tion w ith both. A Personal relationship that very m uch
sympathizes w ith the body and at the same time is a con-
230 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
stant listener to "th e still small voice” saying this is right—
and this is w rong.
H e is the w alking and talking counselor— that is solv­
ing hum an problem s upon the basis o f non-desire— and
as if God is standing by.
H e is the m aster o f love. A love used always in the
contacts o f life. H e is the m ediator between the "Know -
er” and me. So he needs no training and is the same to
both, the cultured and the uncultured.
H e is tender to that w hich decays, and as tender to the
life w ithin, alw ays calling upon the " I A M ” , to withstand
tem ptation and to resist evil.
H e impressed upon m y conscience the law of going
toward fear and running from temptation.
H e carried me to the Pilgrim — in repeating love mantras
and fixin g practices to do and be.
I know w hat the Prophet has accomplished fo r me, for
through him I learned the Silence o f "C lick in g in” — that
is like leaving the outer, to come w ithin— to another au­
thority.
This, I realized, is the same as getting the body fit for
the great experience o f Soul freedom only in an act of
the physical plane, and not o f the Soul. T h at is what I
had to find out through Suggestion. It is laying down
the desires o f the body.
H ow ever this clicking brought forth the Pilgrim to do
the w ork. So I had a greater personality constantly w ork­
ing to get m y attention. Saying as an invisible voice,
"T h is is the w ay and law ” .
This personality has a pow er to reach distances and also
to solve problems— not only o f sickness— but all other in­
harmonies such as unhappiness, poverty and all unrequiet-
ed conditions.
T o ask-believing is the w ay, and then he— the Pil­
grim — impresses thought of the right w ay, and there is a
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 231
change w ithout the body know ing. It means faith and
asking-believing.
Through realization o f nothing being impossible w ith
the Pilgrim — I could find no reason for the sick, unhappy
and poverty-stricken conditions everyw here, when I heard
him say, "Rem em ber the body and keep it h oly” .
It is this part o f man that is greedy, possessive, fears
and doubts. A ccum ulates and hates, and this is the cause
o f disease everywhere.
But—he added, " You do not have to stiffer other than
by disobedience to law, or the accumulation of law against
you” .
I was poor, but believed in opulence. I believed in
health, and in happiness, and felt "S u fficie n t unto the
day is the evil thereof” . A n all pervading Abundance o f
the " I A M ” , and so had no accum ulative desire.
M oney then became a convenience to measure service
and buy things.
It has never been hoarded. For I felt m oney’s part in
life is to have a sufficient am ount— for service to satisfy
living conditions. I needed no more and the w orld can
do w ith no less.
The Prophet and Pilgrim had given me the secret o f
abundance. It is having confidence o f God— being in—
and sharing His abundance with every one that is free
from desire or theft in thought.
I wanted to tell every one o f the inner life— com ing
abroad in the affairs o f men, but found few indeed real­
ized a new im portance in a philosophy that worked.
W orked because o f suscinct principles— always the same.
I wanted to tell o f a personality greater than o f sub­
conscious activity— for this is a method o f raising life to
at-one-m ent w ith God.
It is an unfolding process o f the mind, and the result
o f constant dwelling upon the laws o f concentration w ith
232 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
a love basis. Indeed to m ake love a fascinating medita­
tion.
The C hrist injunction o f "lo ve ye as I have loved you”
became a master force— one used in every contact with the
sick. Ju st fixin g love first, made the "C lick in g in” easier.
It left the objective to its ow n, while the real was about
"M y Father’s business” .
T o fu rth er stim ulate the pow er o f love at the A ltar, the
M aster instituted the Silent prayer, w ith its requirements.
I gave this the name o f "R e st Periods” and made a require­
m ent o f a special tim e fo r them to m y patients.
Thus the M e o f the body is whipped by discipline and
m editation to associate w ith the Prophet and Pilgrim —
and we three became devotional at the same A ltar.
The Silent prayer, has m any hinderances to the ego, for
w ithout exception, all patients w ant to know how long,
and whether it makes any difference in the time.
Tim e is a requirem ent o f the body, and o f course, time
is vital, fo r it is to be at one w ith another. It also gives
"tw o or more gathered together in m y nam e” a presenta­
tion in unison. The A nsw er to this prayer is to find and
know God. A nd that is personal.
It is the beginning o f the long Pilgrim age o f becoming
free from bondage o f m atter— to arrive at that time when
the body m ay be laid down to know the Soul.
It leads to association w ith the Prophet, and through
him w ith the Pilgrim . Then it is in disciplining me to
listen— and to w ait. O f course the pow er o f the Spirit—
through this negation— heals the body. Even if there is
not a desire to know the greater benefit.
It heals because another sends vibrations— when the
body is negative. A nd is the method by w hich people
are healed at a distance.
It is to ask w ith love; and ask believing, and accept an
answer.
The great part in the Silent prayer is where personality
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 233
changes, for there is a change— that gives health, happi­
ness and prosperity according to asking. It is a change o f
affection from the hum an to the D ivine.
A fte r a time this change became real, and I called the
awakening m y "Silen t Partner” . T h at is the same as the
Prophet controlling m y desire life— and I being exalted
into a state of devotion. Then w ithin is feeling o f call—
and there results an answer to prayer.
I cannot emphasize too m uch this change o f feeling— or
the necessity o f the feeling— fo r that is needed to "C lic k
in” in treating or in solving problems personally. W ith ­
out it prayer lacks treating power— and is as one acting
w ithout force.
It is the direct requirem ent o f healing pow er— given
by the Master. Thus at the sick bed, the Love principle
and this changed feeling, is the test in doing the work.
Therefore these two must be always present.
T o love people out of sickness and all hum an inhar­
monies is an elixir, the result o f love and changed person­
ality, wherein the hum an weaknesses have been left w ith
the body while this other power is w orking. W orking o f
course, w ithin the body, but is of itself a Messenger o f the
" I A M ” .
H ealing is based upon the principle o f God within
being always free from disease, and always w illing to ex­
press cure under law . The law is always, and so in this
I felt the philosophy o f the three o f us in one body—
made a scientific approach capable o f being demonstrated
under the most tryin g o f tests.
It is demonstrable because the approach is natural and
devotional, silent and m editative, w ith direct results o f
feeling. The return is because o f feeling— and the con­
sciousness o f God w ithin, returning the answer to prayer
as a messenger, also silent— but a Pilgrim o f the " I A M ” ,
know n to me by w ork, and the conscious conversations
between me and the Prophet.
234 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
These term s I am expressing, came to me as expedients
to designate experiences and give a w orking basis to what
I believe to be the simplest revelation o f God power.
O f course I had heard o f affirm ation, and this form I
knew to be valuable in calling upon the " I A M ” — and in
fix in g principles; but in sickness, social or any other dif­
ficu lty — had no effect— because it was as if lifting one­
self into heaven b y bootstraps. It is not that w ay.
I had no books or literature. N o laws o f procedure.
N o authority to teach or preach, save faith in God.
N o school or church o f traditional prestige. O nly ME
and these tw o w onderful associates.
From this I started to teach and preach the simple
philosophy o f God Presence and H is w ork being done by
the Pilgrim . H is presence expressed by the Prophet.
I knew the rudim ents o f medicine, and had a fair knowl­
edge o f Surgery and A natom y, but in as m uch as I had to
lay these on the A ltar to use the w ithin, medicine was left
and the principles o f this philosophy demonstrated by
healing.
T ried upon patients in sore distress— and who had ex­
hausted the skill o f local physicians, or were too poor to
have succor. M y chance came from the hopeless and the
poor who came from very great need. They began to get
well and talked.
T h ey came asking, at the first, one— then others, until
there was a m ultitude. T h ey came, and the philosophy
began its years o f dem onstration. For people getting well
were the method o f grow th, and this continues to this
day. Cures upon cures from most o f the impossible com­
plaints— impress people everyw here; but most o f all they
impress— the one who cures.
The conquering pow er o f healing is also an inquiring
force m aking people ask, " B y w hat authority do you do
these things?”
T hus an explanation o f the three bodies, the me and
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET A N D ME 235
then the Prophet as a devotional me— carrying me inw ard
to the " I A M ” — and the Pilgrim seemed a natural religious
rite, but the other, or Pilgrim answering prayer, did not
find easy acceptation.
H ow ever, it is a sound philosophy, based upon fact and
demonstration. It admits disease is a part o f each life,
and is no illusion.
It does not deny to cure, but realizes and then puts
something else in its place, b y changing body and m ental
conditions.
It sees within the inhibitions and starts vibration on
its w ay o f cure.
It has inner forces to do these things— in the Pilgrim
and Prophet.
T h ey come into action through devotion and that
brings it all back to M E, who am the servant.
First it is a method o f practicing principles, and then
recording experiences.
W hen healing the sick, it is in the attitude o f me, to
others— and to the principles w ithin.
G etting me right— and in a state o f m ind to click in to
another personality, then allow ing this personality to do
the w ork w ith a recorder who is the Prophet— and he as
m y intim ate conversational associate who tells me o f the
w ork done, and I know it is done.
Thus on the tressel board o f fate— years ago— I began
an outline o f testing religious principles. A test that in ­
cluded curing the sick and in creating health, happiness
and prosperity.
I was always physically doubtful until the click in was
felt, and then there is a feeling o f Faith and o f doing.
A ll manner o f diseases were in doing. M rs. Itenier came
and as the Pilgrim did the w ork— stood up shouting, say­
ing, " I am well, thank God, I am w ell” . She had been sick
a num ber o f years w ith rheumatism— that resulted in
236 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
curvature o f the back. T he Pilgrim did the work. The
Prophet was there— and so was I— as a witness.
M rs. Deem er had a hem orrhage o f the kidneys stopped—
and almost instantly— when the local D octor said, "Let’s
see you do this w o rk ” . T he Pilgrim did— and Mrs. Dee­
m er was w ell from that m om ent.
M rs. C rister, unconscious fo r three days, was awakened
in the m idst o f a gathered neighborhood. The Pilgrim
did, and the Prophet recorded.
She had suffered from shock— and even her feet had
been blistered in a hope o f aw akening. She awoke scream­
ing from pain, and was put to sleep again by the Pilgrim —
to awaken almost instantly free from pain. It was
through a "Presence” greater than I.
Joh n Burton, became insane through religious excite­
m ent and was strapped to a bed. The Pilgrim bade me
loosen the straps, and then brought John back to sanity
almost instantly.
This w ork has gone on through the years, and always
the same process and alw ays the presence. Then the Pil­
grim does the w ork. There is alw ays a demonstration—
that varies not a hairsbreath in execution. First, Love;
then the C lickin g in and then the Pilgrim .
The Prophet and Pilgrim free the body from the fears
o f the flesh. It is as the quotation from St. M ark. Then
the disciple "C a n take up any deadly thing and it will
not hurt them ” .
It is a fear casting out process.
It is something that gives to the individual unexpected
privileges in the cure o f disease, and o f all other things
keeping the individual from righ tfu l happiness.
B y cures and rem arkable happenings people come and
are relieved, and going aw ay had others come.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET A N D ME 237
I have had a great num ber tell me I had made their
life happy and death o f the body easy. A young m an
came to me in his last illness and being relieved, at first
went home, to return again.
H e said the outer w orld did not seem the same and
wanted to come back to get something o f that other
Spirituous that did not die. W e talked m uch o f the three
of us in each o f us. A nd when his last night came said,
"hold m y hand D octor, for I wish to tell you o f the happi­
ness I have received from you.
" I t has been the only happiness I have ever had as a
lasting peace. N o w send for m y folks; I am about to die.”
Then he added, " I know there is that part o f me that
w ill not die. Goodbye” .
I AMI
C h a pter X X I V
IN N E R P E R S O N A L IT IE S B U IL D T H E B O D Y
A N D M IN D IN T O A C C O R D .
A s the body and mind respond to the inner call o f the
Prophet in devotion and the Pilgrim "F o r the very works
sake” , there follow s a change in texture and outer expres­
sion indicative o f the life lived.
And it is good and very good.
Ju st as life in the open changes features into a likeness
to the vocation lived, so does every other vocation fix and
establish lines o f character and refining or adjusting coun­
tenance to that lived.
A ll o f w hich means there is a com ing through from
the hidden resources o f being that w hich adds to work
and fixes the person to represent their doing or vocation.
Phrenologists call it the result o f the size o f the head,
"other things in proportion determ ining the character of
w ork best suited to the individual” . B u t even more than
outer fixin g is a subtile something com ing through and
giving to attitude and countenance an inner urge showing
the w ay and law o f Soul.
This fixing of countenance is the result of asking-be­
lieving, and goes all the way from the "Drawer of Water
and hewer of wood” to the shining love light of the
Prophet and Pilgrim making of the body a servant in His
Image.
The Spiritual personalities are the m ighty forces o f God
resident in m an and have pow er beyond the body to im ­
press their w ill. H ow ever to the body is given freedom in
[238]
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AN D ME 239
doing and is o f individual volition. The body, therefore,
can take authority unto itself; or, it can surrender direc­
tion to the other two.
T h at is it can ask and believe in a guidance superior to
material condition. So while doing w ork that is the means
of m aterial sustenance, can ask believing. A n d thus is
the Prophet an active force in carrying messages.
The method is in getting acquainted w ith him . For
he has to be wooed, and is alw ays as close as the individual
allows. H e is cultivated b y taking all problem s to him
and talking to him as if he were clothed in flesh and
blood.
I talked to him o f m y w ork, and o f patients, or between
times when seeking the quiet o f "R est periods,” asking-
believing, and asking to believe. A sking— alw ays asking—
until he became a fixed personality, answ ering according
to law — as if another somebody was alw ays near.
It gives something added to the body and compels ac­
ceptance o f him and the Pilgrim — as real powers o f the
" I A M ” .
It is adding and fixin g faith in doing, and refines the
body into a reflective and tranquil state o f being to show
peace in times o f stress— and confidence— in the face o f
obstacles. It made me feel every time I banished fear,
(and this is banished by "C lick in g in” to believe), there
is that something that make all things possible.
Thus is form ed a m ighty sym pathy between the three
personalities. I noticed in times o f Com m union w ith the
Prophet or his relaying m y message to the Pilgrim , em o­
tions were stilled, and I was at peace, as if in the presence
of God.
Then would follow an outer peace and pow er to do.
N o m atter how serious the sickness. The adm inistration
o f cure went on as a natural force, freely flow in g from
within. A nd I "a spectator w ith a seed” .
It gave the childhood feeling o f asking-believing, and
240 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET A N D ME
the innocence o f eye and countenance o f those receiving—
saying, "W h at have you— and you m ake me feel so good” .
And always you can tell them— by the surprised inno­
cence of eyes looking at you; old and young, all the same.
O f course, this is not alw ays so, nor does the body main­
tain peace alw ays. For there is a constant struggle be­
tween the anim al and higher nature.
One w ants to love on earth and be guided by material
things, and the other w ants the Prophet and Pilgrim to
control in all m atters pertaining to Soul, while letting the
body alone in the affairs o f body.
N atu rally too, the Prophet is affected by failure o f the
body. H e sees, and I too— mistakes. Then we both know
o f but one w ay to right things, and so, the silent prayer
and its rules are invoked to get right.
This is a simple and natural plan fo r all men and the
w ay to put mistakes out and truth in. A nd this is the
w ay to correct relationships between the Prophet, Pilgrim
and me. A n d the w ay to "ask believing” , and have the
Pilgrim do the w ork.
Failure in adjustm ents is the reason fo r so m any fail­
ures in understanding the law o f Prayer.
The Prophet is left out o f arrangem ents and there is no
direct w ay o f com m unicating w ith the " I A M ” . H e is
that part w e all talk to— and the part that connects with
the invisible Pilgrim , and so desire is left on the outside
looking in. A nd this is the missing something— that con­
nects w ith the Pilgrim . A ll three m ust be as one.
The more this association— the surer o f face, counte­
nance and poise show. G od influence and harm onizing
to the inner life. The final e ffect being a holy person.
The Holy have prayer answered to live in His presence.
A n d this is the reason fo r an universal account o f Proph­
ets being alone, and o f H o ly ones, living in Silence and
constant prayer. Yes, prayer o f doing as well as silence.
H ere is the pow er o f the Prophet whose first o ffice is
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 241
to banish outside difficulties and be counselor b y silent
prayer. .
H e gives the m antras o f devotion, carrying the objective
into introspection and surrender until the ego is laid down,
w ith all its burdens and cares— to receive the blessing o f
the Pilgrim . T h at is, laying down opinion to take up
revelation.
Then the flow o f the Spirit is free and the body becomes
a servant, taking on more o f the holy, because o f surren­
dering to the Spirit. It is the living equation that counts.
The Spiritual part is never m odified by desire. It is the
love part, and gives love as a lasting expression, so the
body becomes refined in love through prayer.
The greatest effect o f the emotion o f life is w hat one
feels fo r another, after receiving the most priceless o f
gifts. A Peace that comes after affliction . For w ith it
there is an awakening o f hidden and latent force— that
calls to God in devotion.
Love processes of devotion makes the body magnetic.
It gives confidence in inner powers, and a feeling of com­
petence without. No egotism— but confidence. Confi­
dence in living and in doing. Confidence in asking-be­
lieving. Asking for law and the expression of law, that
leaves desire and egotism behind.
It is the "K n o w and w ord” that comes from the reali­
zation, "W ith God all things are possible” , and the w ay
to him is to lay the body down and ask-believing— for
light and law, not fo r desire or wants. N o t fo r especial
privilege, but fo r all to have privilege. Privilege w ithin
law.
Thus love becomes ever upperm ost, because love is the
messenger of God as an inner awakening to do H is will.
A nd thus the Pilgrim is sent. Sent in a faith o f com plac­
ency. Because no m atter what others say, this is law.
G od’s w ill is law.
O uter affairs do not interfere w ith the inner con-
11
242 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
science o f the Prophet or Pilgrim . The Prophet m ay feel
them and the Pilgrim be silent; but these tw o are estab­
lished, one as the subconscious, and the other, an inner
force, alw ays responsive to the possessor calling. For
asking is the same as having.
T he successful person wears the evidence o f prosperity,
so that all contacting see. It is that something, not spok­
en o f, yet nevertheless— alw ays present.
The happy individual also wears the ermine o f content­
m ent. So, also, loving people w ear that something that
w ill not w ear o ff while alw ays carrying good cheer to
the w orld.
Who has not been cheered by happiness, love and the
presence of prospertiy. Who is not wanting these when
there is a lack of posssession. Kemember, they all belong
to the infinite—in every individual.
W ithin is A bundance, happiness and love. A nd with­
in is a w ay to attain.
For w ithin is the Pilgrim that is a direct representative
o f all abundance o f every kind everyw here. H e comes
through conviction and asking.
H e comes by getting aw ay from physical and changing
conditions, into contact w ith an everlasting and unvarying
force.
This approach is through sym pathy, one w ith another
in all the woes o f m ankind. Listening to them as if a
part, and then in putting "som ething good” in the place
o f evil.
The approach is in surrendering the fleeting and vain
things o f hum an relationship— to take up the everlasting
principle o f abundance in all things— and then asking-
believing. It is asking of the inner consciousness to come
abroad in all things. T h at is abundance o f the lasting
character.
It brings G od to the rescue o f fleeting hum an condi-
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 243
tions and gives a confidence o f attitude and a bearing
nothing physical can com bat.
I reported to one o f m y disciples o f the success o f an­
other and got this reply, "O ne only has to think back to
know love’s w ay, when expressed, were the on ly m om ents
of happiness” .
It is the accum ulation o f these m om ents that creates
the resolve to have them always. Then resolve becomes
fixed in prayer and prayer fixed as a continuous necessity
o f going w ithin to have peace and success.
H ere also is a changing countenance to one o f abiding
faith in the hidden and latent— to bring to the body the
joy of know ing the asking part o f life is a turning o f the
knob o f a door leading into Jo y.
H o w often I have asked believing— fo r the substance o f
life. T hat is an abundance— and then as if com ing from
everywhere had a supply that was pressed dow n and heap­
ing over.
H o w often has the law been proven to others. Those
who have given up and who are depressed. T h ey have
had the experience o f a gracious invisible hand— giving
their need now— and that other something— that gives life
its m orning light.
For this law works for all alike. Those who have been
born in abundance and to those who have not. It is so
universal that it controls egotisms— and assumed place and
cast to tell everyone this is the w ay and law.
T h at is "T o ask-believing” . A nd to m ake this asking a
habit— that never turns aw ay from inner abundance to
outer despair.
It always carries the inner assurance outward to clear
away doubt and fear as the sun clears the dew in the
morning of spring.
It is so simple— for it is love w ithout flaw or guile. A
love to do good and make things better by affectionate
244 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
understanding. Love thus becomes the approach and so­
lution o f trouble.
It is a willingness to get still ask-believing and serve.
It uses the Prophet as a messenger here, and through him
contacts the Pilgrim and then has the w ork done. All a
simple procedure of prayer that has nothing lacking.
It gives assurance o f all being well without, because
the w ithin makes it so. For the Prophet has no favorites
in his abstract love. It is that stillness before action that
goes to all alike. Fie has no caste, creed, state of being or
favor. For his is a message o f G od and while a means of
worship is also a help. It is Love, Service, fasting and
prayer, always the same in method of procedure.
These can be applied instantly, when the rules have
made the practice instant; and so by training, there is in­
stant prayer. This is know n as clicking in and is the
same as one experiences when a change o f feeling comes
on them. Only this is always good.
T o this training I have given m any years o f trial, by
going o ff a distance to pray. T o p ray when in the midst
o f struggle. W hen things w ere going w rong, and when
sickness seemed to be carrying some one across the border
line. Thus the approach and all the details became fixed
as mental assets o f silence and fastened to stay. It is the
clicking in, prayer fixed as something to be used instantly.
The instant prayer m ust be the same as the longer
periods. T h at is, it takes in as conclusive all the stages of
thought from asking-believing, to the answer; for the
Prophet more and more com mands the body into obe­
dience. It is not a surrender o f any valuable right, but
rather an adding to the body a partner that is ever silent,
though always present to do.
Fie always makes the body fit fo r the Pilgrim , who
m ust have negation and acceptance to do the w ork. The
w ork is in curing all diseases and sicknesses— and these in­
clude all the ills o f m ankind.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 245
The body is prepared to respond to an inner urge to give
a light, as if there is something more than intellect; some­
thing more than animal. T h at is, the body becomes more
sensitive to conditions as they are, and also has that some­
thing that instantly dissolves opposition.
This light is sometimes called an auro, and is alw ays an
evidence o f the spirit com ing through. It is in evidence
in treatm ent, when there is an urge to solve trouble, and
in changing evil conditions.
It is so natural and prevalent— that all who w ill— have
felt its influence. The light comes in waves going out
from the body— as if a great light was behind the curtain
and shining through. T o me it alw ays reveals great
"W o rks” .
Also it inhibits anger, fear and weakness, so it norm ally
is a smiling face that gives to the w orld the Savior’s bless­
ing: "Peace, Peace I give unto you ” . It is not the m an­
made peace, but one that surpasseth hum an understanding.
A living expression o f the Pilgrim and Prophet is the
outside rew ard— for living w ith them— in prayer and in
doing the w ork, they give that something to the character,
that shines through in love’s w ay and gives to everything
a new and vital meaning. For who has not m et that
some one in a crowd, whose very atmosphere changes
gloom and sorrow into light and happiness?
W ho has not experienced the touch o f fingers that
gave confidence or heard the voice o f victory over the
weaknesses o f the flesh?
W ho had not held the message dear o f a love that over­
comes and brings w ith it— the confidence o f success?
W ho has not asked believing, w ith an assured know l­
edge that there is to be returned faith heaping over and
sufficient?
W ho has not found themselves in the stream o f success,
contentm ent and happiness; all because o f a something
happening beyond human understanding? Beyond, un-
246 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET A N D ME
less there is a know ledge o f the forces o f the Prophet and
Pilgrim to answer, prayer.
It is these things the Prophet and Pilgrim give to every
individual, "askin g-believin g” . It is these practices that
m ake happiness, health and prosperity perm anent in the
life o f every one w ho is a child o f God.
It carries the lasting message o f w ithin is God, and the
" I A M ” a personal salvation. W ithin is the messenger
com ing abroad doing H is w ill, now and here.
W ithin is the pow er o f prayer involked to follow a re­
plenishing o f the body virtues— while leaving it free in its
ow n plane— to do the natural things com m on to exist­
ence. -¥
\
A t no time do inner forces interfere w ith individual
privilege, or shape destiny in any w ay, save to give free­
dom to the spirit to result in better living.
There cannot be judgm ents, fo r these belong to God.
The "old goats o f virtue and vice” ; one condemning and
the other acting, are tied upon the outside while the in­
dividual goes w ithin to worship the living God.
Even selfishness o f w ork is offset b y an universal
abundance. A n abundance belonging to. all who work.
There is no exception and no lack.
The Prophet and Pilgrim fix law and procedure to make
this true. So within all problems resolve themselves to a
knowledge of universal abundance and asking-believing—
as the way. And this is the righteous following of the
principles of prayer.
The Prophet starts w ith the body and returns to the
body. H e projects the w ay fo r the Pilgrim to act, and
both, while independent, w ork to the com m on end to
m ake the body fit. Thus at last, and after practice, the
body responds to inner urge— and is a w alking expression
o f inner power.
It is alw ays a consciousness o f w ithin, and a m ighty
pow er generated by the Pilgrim — that makes all men do
TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET AN D ME 2 4 7
their best— w ith a possibility o f a plus-beyond body
strength.
T h at is the reason fo r the M aster’s statem ent: "O f my­
self, I do nothing, the Father within me He doeth the
work” . For alw ays the body is shedding atoms and is
not reliable or perm anent. The Spirit is that— fo r it and
the "Fath er w ith in” is one. The body tires, gets sick, fails
in productiveness and success, but the Spirit never.
The Prophet is the start o f going to the Spirit fo r that
is the subconscious part o f the body and so has one part
o f the Physical and the other connecting to the Pilgrim ,
who, likewise, connects w ith the Spirit— and these three
are one.
It is the Prophet that fixes the principles o f prayer, so
that I, the individual, m ay give devotion to the Suprem e
and from him through direct expression begin to live in
"H is image and likeness” .
Thus when the Prophet conquers the body b y and
through the principles o f prayer, he makes it a w illing
servant. H e takes all problems to God, while guiding
against the Ego— that having a wish fo r life here upon
earth is constantly interfering w ith law to establish him ­
self.
A ll philosophies condemn the ego and ignorance o f
man. Their likes and hates as well as a wish fo r continu­
ous life in the body as the sum total o f illusion. A gainst
them is given the Prayer w ith the Prophet and Pilgrim ,
as the means to go to God.
A ll who have tried know this w ay is the beaten path o f
every M aster. It is the only road that is scientific and
religious and the only w ay home. It is more than that,
for it fixes Heaven here and amongst men. A place o f
peace and good w ill— all can enter— through the service
o f the Prophet and Pilgrim , when these tw o have brought
inner consciousness aboard.
O f course there m ust be a stability to belief in asking.
248 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AN D ME
A dependence upon the spoken conversations of the
Prophet, and a realization the Pilgrim does come abroad
in the cure o f "a ll m anner o f diseases and sicknesses” .
Then the deeper states o f these tw o forces within lead
naturally to T ran ce where the principles o f separation
are entered into w ith the same sequence as in the ordinary
silent prayer— only now , the states are self surrender—
and the same feeling as the change o f personality in H yp ­
nosis.
It is a surrender of one body— to find another and this
is a scary or frightening state of the senses, rather than
fearful. For there is no danger to body or mind in the
process.
Follow ing the rules o f prayer, I at last found the method
o f sinking into this separating state. It is the same as
Prayer, but needs absolute devotion— or great fatigue.
Then the process is in laying down one life to find an­
other.
I am about to record some o f the things the Pilgrim
com m unicated to me when he was free from me and with
the Prophet, w ent on journeys to the home o f Souls. A ll
souls, good and bad.
For "H eaven is here upon earth” and all have the priv­
ilege o f entering.
I AMI
C h apter X X V
S P IR IT U A L C O N S C IO U S N E S S IS T O B E
D E M O N S T R A T E D O U T W A R D L Y
First, I w ill give the physical and mental practices and
belief necessary to a pilgrim age and then the experiences
o f the Pilgrim .
The Pilgrim is an associate o f every one and that part
o f them that seeks a shrine o f devotion to the A L L .
In this case it is the God principle within. H e is one
w ith, and one apart, from the body, yet comes forth
through law and when the body is surrendered.
The calling is physical, and the reply is a change o f feel­
ing alike to laying something of no im portance down to
take up the greatest thing in all the w orld. Y e t that
w hich is laid down is all im portant here and amongst men.
So the laying down is both renunciation and sacrifice and
a surrendering o f that w hich is fo r a belief, a belief in
the " I A M ” .
The " I A M ” is so close to the body that the laying
down becomes a transition w ithout let or hindrance and
means one has returned to them "a hundred fold more
than left and in addition thereto everlasting life” . It
therefore is a change of personality, the result of prayer,
and answers m an’s petition when in despair he knows not
where to go.
Thus is the Pilgrim released from the bondage o f m atter
through faith in God is a conviction o f a Savior believed
because o f revelation to do things better than before.
It is as if the "K in gdom o f heaven has been revealed,
[249]
250 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
the w ay made plain to go, and a w aiting friend there to
give inform ation very m uch desired” .
In the beginning it is like talking to oneself, only it is
concentration upon e ffo rt.
Concentration that nothing is left out o f the plan and
w ay to attain separateness. Concentration o f love to
carry on and to abide believing. Concentration to have
the body cared fo r and to do all those things necessary to
be protected.
The body is sleeping and so needs the guardian angel
help. This is the Solar plan o f phantom s and the sheath
protecting while the m aster powers are away. O f course
an aw akening w ould bring back the Pilgrim and Prophet,
but there m ight also occur shock to brain activity and
this has to be cared fo r by Angels or thought animations
that are as a protective outer guard to the body.
O f course the body breathes and functions normally.
It is not in a state o f suspension o f anim ation, and so that
part is not entered into.
This last is the pow er given unto Masters who can take
up or lay dow n a body at w ill. T h at is, can precipitate a
body according to plan to talk to another.
(T h at was the w ay the M aster talked to the Colonel
at the time we had his talk on the d ifferen t bodies.) And
is a higher state o f being than that herein described.
The Pilgrim comes forth through self surrender o f the
body and according to the principle o f hypnosis. H e is
connected to the body b y the Prophet, but does not use
the brain equipm ent in seeing, doing or revealing. That
part o f him is an intelligence that belongs to God.
The Prophet becomes active in relaying inform ation,
and this is because o f resolve previously entered into with
the body.
Though previously experiencing the freedom o f Soul
through separation, the plan remained a m ystery until
this time when I realized the sleep part and the awakening
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AN D ME 251
within o f another personality, and that other became the
Pilgrim . T h at is, that part o f me stood out as a person­
ality instead o f the sleeping one, w ith the Prophet seem­
ingly a M aster o f inner com m unication.
The act was instant, but the telling takes time. So
after awakening as if from sleep, the Pilgrim began to
assume personality until in a m om ent he was I. A n d the
body, that something left, but to be returned too and so
the care o f it was to fix it in com fort fo r rest. This done,
then the I assumed became a personality and a visit to
friends beyond the plane o f m atter begun.
It is like the soul leaving the body at death, fo r the Soul
is at the portals o f the Kingdom o f heaven. (T h at is the
term used for the abiding home o f Souls.) There I was
met by the venerable old Master who had previously been
m y guide.
H e spoke o f m y surprise and closeness to the body while
out of it. "H ow ever now you know the difference and
the method o f separation and that is a great step in Soul
progress.”
Then added, "M ostly everyone has some o f the power
o f leaving the body, but it is m ostly that kind o f dream
that is called vision, yet is an evidence o f seeing and hear­
ing things separated from m aterial perception.
"T h e y are often called dreams o f prophecy; the basis
o f which is living in devotion to the supreme soul and
sometimes real.”
D evotion is the law o f grow th, giving freedom from
the bondage o f matter.
It starts in a kindly feeling to others in expressing love.
A love w ithout desire or possession and so is in itself a cu l­
tivation o f the principles o f discipline and restraint. Then
it changes from the animal to a divine g ift carrying the
power o f freedom.
It is so vital that it is always the g ift at the A ltar where
252 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
it has le ft all to say, "H ere I am Lord, tell me what I must
do to express th y w ill m ore p erfectly” .
W ith love is the free o fferin g o f service and the practice
o f restraint, that is "fa stin g ” . A n adjusting o f body
fu nction to accept truth and then m editating upon God
and H is closeness is the direct w ay o f atuning the body to
surrender.”
"W h en surrender is com plete the body becomes a serv­
ant, and then it is, that the Pilgrim comes forth as a per­
sonage.”
"Y o u have earned this right, and now as a Pilgrim can
go anyw here upon the Soul plane, asking and receiving
answers to m ental, physical and Soul questions, according
to nearness to the Throne o f G race.”
H e emphasized the necessity o f love at the A ltar as evi­
denced by w illing to obey and fo llo w ; listen and receive.
Then he asked, "D o you w ant to go on and have con­
versation w ith those gone before, their teachers and resi­
dents here, as well as visitors alike to yo u ?”
I said, " I did.”
Then he said, "F o llo w and notice things, relaying to
your Prophet the things wanted in your body life.
"H e is the recording pow er here, the same as the Sub­
conscious is there. A n d rem ember, you the Pilgrim are
the personality speaking while in this state o f being with
the body being an unconscious reception. The Prophet
does that part.
"Indeed the process is a 'clicking in’ from this plane and
the Prophet is the messenger.” Then he added, "the
Prophet is alw ays close to the personality speaking.
"In the body he is the higher self, but listens to and
follow s the body.
"In this state he is a messenger to give what you
w ant to the body and is close unto you, so close indeed
he is as one w ith either the Spirit or the body.
"T h is gives to your sleeping body a vibration beyond
TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET A N D ME 253
the animal, and so the Prophet operates through it as if it
is has the power, you know , to belong to the Pilgrim .
"T h a t is by association o f you in the body doing 'w o rk ’
the Prophet and body take on Godliness and w ork as one,
even though there is a separateness o f principle. The
action is one.”
Thus was relayed to m y sleeping body the difference
in the three. Also the reason fo r m y body feeling the
presence o f the others even though they were inactive.
This because o f past association.
Then he said, "Y o u w ill note the connection between
the body and you is a silvery 'life w ave’ that comes from
the head and heart. It is the protecting connection and
serves both Soul and body.”
" B y experience here the Soul life becomes a g ift o f
revelation to the body. Also here the Soul is master and
the body servant. A state that must ensue on both the
m aterial and mind plane before there is freedom to expe­
rience from both.
"A ll people believe in everlasting life, even if all do
not believe in continuous personality. So it is a blessing
indeed to experience and know higher states than those
experienced on earth.
"F ew indeed have the experience o f know ingly being
separate from the body and thus know ing Soul, birth
and rebirth as you have now or are to experience.
"N o w fo r a few o f the fundam entals to m ake your
visit here o f mom ent to the body when you and it again
assume m aterial relationship.
"M ost o f the Sins of man belong to the body and m odi­
fy the mind and soul by fact suggestion. T h at is, they
have an effect upon the body in reaction from the beaten
path o f right and effect the Soul because o f keeping it
in bondage to desire. N o w the freedom o f this sinful
state is in expiation either when in the body or after the
Soul leaves at death.
254 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
"So sin is carried from one life to another until the Soul
assumes com m and. T he lesser sins are expiated by sleep
and so Souls here are in states o f reparation. For there
is alw ays a cleansing between incarnations and an adjust­
m ent o f conditions to suit the grow th o f civilization.
"T h ere is no culture lost in death or practices of right
thinking fo r these are law . It is only the illusions about
life and the Sins o f omission and commission that are left
behind or corrected. M any o f these sleep w ith the grave.
"T h u s birth does not bring w ith it the habits of the
past, but does bring caste, culture and standing. For
these are civilization’s g ift to the Soul, fittin g it to go on.
A n d Souls do go progressively to the throne of grace.”
T hen we visited sleeping Souls, sleeping o ff the effect
o f earth existence, illustrating w hat the M aster had been
saying.
I asked him how long, and he answered, "T h a t too, is a
cycle o f time and according to the scheme o f things, is
quickened to meet the change o f vibration o f each person,
and generally speaking is from something over tw o thou­
sand years to some part o f seven.”
"R a re souls therefore, can go back to earth almost in­
stantly, or from one to seven years. W hile most take
some portion o f the tw o thousand.”
Then he said: "T h ere are m any visitors who come for
inform ation. T h ey come to visit the Lodge o f the 'Great
W hite Brotherhood,’ whose meetings are always soul meet­
ings.
"These meetings are alw ays before the fu ll moon o f the
fou r seasons o f the year, beginning w ith the Spring
equinox.
" I t is in this w ay Masters get reports o f the w orld’s
progress and how to help struggling hum anity.
"T h eir object is to free the w orld from strife and the
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 255
tortures o f w ar and unjust control o f interests binding
the mass in slavery.”
N ext we came to a place o f assembly, where there were
m any gathered; young and old. T h ey were an interest­
ing, listening assembly.
T h ey were given the same instruction as had been given
me. Law s about Soul separation, and the method o f p rep­
aration. A ll fo r the purpose o f having and holding in­
form ation regarding earth conduct and the overcom ing
strife caused by the desire, ignorance and egotism o f man.
A meeting similar to the M t. Sinai m eeting o f Christ.
The meeting was in charge o f a venerable M aster; who
was saying, "A re there any here who are puzzled and
w ant questions answered?”
M y teacher said, “ N o w ask.”
I asked about m y people. "W h y are they so poor,
ground down, w ithout hope and in p overty.”
"W h y are some sick, some weak and m entally u n fit?
Indeed w hat is the inequality found on earth in w hich I
when in the body share?”
H e answered, "Y o u have indeed questioned about a
grave fault, because M an has not felt the urge to follow
inner teachings o f Soul.
"H e has from the beginning found the desires o f the
body predom inating. A nd so from Ignorance com m its
his Sins.
"Y es, Ignorance is the m other o f Sin and alike to it is
the ego and then is a natural desire to make these perm a­
nent. Though all know there is always death to the
body.
"T h e y do not see the Soul, and so cannot reason from
knowledge, there is another life.
"T h is is through urge. A nd the awakening o f another
consciousness is necessary to know , carry the message to
the w orld; Love is the awakening power and surely is
awaiting every one.
2 5 6 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
"C a rry this also, all sins are o f the body and while keep­
ing the Soul in bondage, are not punished in everlasting
fire. N o sin o f the body destroys life. T h at can only be
b y the Soul in denial.”
M istakes in living are corrected in birth and reliving,
and this accounts fo r the now d ifferen t body afflictions
and deform ities, m ental weaknesses and insanity. A ll the
result o f Sin. Some volu n tary and some involuntary or
brought on because o f ignorance.
Some are cured by remedies o f the earth, but all are
cured by Love and the powers o f the Soul. C arry this
message back and tell your people the Souls of the world
are cured when they are ready. T h ey m ust prepare them­
selves.”
I asked, rem em bering m y ow n vocation, "Is there not
a direct w a y ?”
H e answered, "T h e direct w ay is calling upon the 'I
A M ’ and to believe and know H is 'Presence’. It is a
M antra o f 'I A M the resurrection and the life.’ It is a
call o f suggestion that is one o f the m ajor forces in mental
life to fix a tru th ” .
I asked, "W h at are the hindrances?” A nd he answered,
"Forgetfulness o f m antra and time o f prayer, careless­
ness, laziness, lack o f faith, non-attention, and failure to
m aintain any state o f devotion.”
These result in doubt and fear, crying, sighing and dis­
satisfaction o f any and every condition. The overcoming
has its ow n rew ard, in feeling o f faith and kindness where
Love is master, and a feeling o f God present.
H e said, "N o w take this message also. It w ill prove
its ow n rew ard.”
So these are the principles of correct conduct to over­
come the weaknesses o f the flesh.
It is in talking about holy things and in associating to­
gether as did C hrist and H is disciples.
In expressing love alw ays to one another. Even as He
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 25 7
did to M ary and M artha and in being free and unafraid
in the p u rity o f devotion.
These loves constitute the harm ony o f giving w ithout
guile and have as a rew ard "R eceivin g pressed dow n and
heaping over” ; though that is not the intent.
Love is m aintained by dw elling upon some ideal charac­
ter and in rem em bering the greatest moments o f personal
love and the glory o f the moment.
N o w from the Assem bly, we, m y teacher and I, went
amongst those who had passed over.
E very one spoken to was happy and spoke o f the joy
o f living.
T h ey said, while on earth they had been tired and u n ­
happy, but now there was no uneasiness in living unless
it was to wish happiness upon all people, upon the earth
and in H eaven.
I found too, the Spirit world is beautiful, and alike to
things upon earth. Seem ingly the same homes, life and
action, only here there was a lack o f sorrow and dissatis­
faction as if the desire life had been left behind as it was.
H ow ever, I noticed a radical change in conversations.
N o one asked about sickness or about sorrows. These
were not talked because not known.
There was no m arriage or giving in m arriage, and so
this too was not talked. There was no desire life and so
no talk o f wants. Ju st a cleansing o f w hat had been, and
the joy o f heaven.
There is no caste, creed or dogma in the Kingdom of
H eaven. I was received gladly, as if all were w anting to
share their gladness. The conversations were free from
gossip. N o scandal and no salacious stories.
I heard discussions upon science, discovery, and inven­
tion. O f the w ay these came from the hidden and latent,
and the state o f mind necessary to receive.
I heard of these gifts to man com ing as he ripened unto
258 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
them , and not as the especial g ift o f some one person.
I heard discussions on control o f body and mind and the
relation o f these to the Soul.
I looked and perceived the Soul had a body o f its own,
but seemed a sheath o f that w hich m y body possessed.
Then I had pointed out to me the sleeping Souls bound
to Sin, but there was no condem nation.
I heard o f the illusions o f sin, and how sin had been fas­
tened b y leaving love to cleave unto desire.
I heard o f love being pure and abstract, when it came
from the spirit.
I heard o f the prophet teaching this love to the body
and his using it to bring the body in obedience to the
spirit in prayer.
I heard o f m y com ing through by this discipline.
It was all a glorious explanation o f the simple way of
love.
I was told that the w ay is to use love o f the spirit in
the body rather than the desires o f the body in the Spirit.
T o go from the ignorance o f desire to the ecstasy o f peace
and to do so by forgetting and fo rgivin g all offense.
I did not hear o f possession, intrigue or conquest, anger
or doubt. These were not there, and should not be here.
A s I w ent from one to another, I met a sweet-faced lady
who had been aw ay from the earth plane long enough
to have freedom , and was a teacher o f the bound and
helpless young Souls that were awakening.
I asked her how it felt to be "o u t o f the body and free
from m atter?”
She answered: " I am not entirely free, fo r the earth is
m y home, and I shall in time return to a masterial body.
B u t I hope it w ill be better.
"Y o u see, at first, I did not know I was out of the
body. D eath is that w ay. I had fallen into a sleep and
from that sleep passed out.
" I only knew I was free from pain. Then I slept for
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 259
some time and became conscious I was free from sickness
and in a place where there is no p overty and unhappiness.
I was impressed most at being free from pain.”
"D o you wish to return to the earth and to fa m ily ?”
She answered: "T h e natural physical attachm ents o f
the earth are left there, and no Soul wishes to return. The
return is alw ays because the Soul has not conquered the
desires o f the body and is thus held.”
She said all o f earth attachm ents belonged to the m ate­
rial plane and all are reborn until the Soul conquers the
body and surrenders entirely to G od.”
I asked, "H o w are you, are you free?” She said, "A s
free as I have gained consciousness o f the indw elling spirit,
and happy in accordance w ith freedom ” .
I left this gentle Soul, to meet Lula.
She was different from w hat she had been upon earth,
and so I spoke o f that.
She said, "Y es, I am different and am happy in prepar­
ing m yself now. Also I am free from the envy and jeal­
ousy that made me miserable.”
Then she added comments on earth love and said, " I t
ought to be on the side o f God.
"F o r your love is correct. It does cure. It cured m y
body, and then lack o f confidence destroyed. A nd said
further, there is only one thing in all the earth that is ever­
lasting, and that is love.”
Then the venerable M aster said, "B efore you go to
your body, I w ant to impress this thought upon your
sleeping self its sins and weaknesses in the separateness of
it from the other tw o o f you.
Y o u as a Pilgrim and as one listening now, do not have
com munion w ith the body until it comes into spiritual
atonement. It feels you, and knows o f your presence, but
the com m unication is always through the Prophet, and
260 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
that makes it selfish, because o f desire. The Prophet curbs
this from you.
H e talks to the body, because he is the higher self, called
the subconscious.
H e talks to you because you are in harm ony through
vibration w ith the subconscious.
T he body, and Prophet are thus in communion because
laws o f peace and devotion gives this privilege.
There is a difference in peace and condition that brings
you into body life. Peace is the result o f prayer and sur­
render.
"T h en is the 'clickin g in ’ that makes your presence
know n. A n d these conditions give the separateness of
personalities. B ack o f them m ust be love. For love is the
com m unicating pow er o f the body w ith universe, through
w hich all live and have their being. It always is the gift
at the A ltar. Rem em ber and abide. A nd so Pilgrim love
p urifies.”
I AMI
C h apter X X V I
O N E H E R E . O N E W IT H M E A L W A Y S .— T H E
O T H E R A S IL E N T P R E S E N C E
The three personalities given by the M aster as an ap­
parent basis o f relationship from the divine to the physi­
cal m ust be demonstrated to be true and a something of
every day association.
M y trouble was in instant feeling o f them, and in sepa­
rating relationship. (These were d ifficu lt.) I knew o f
the powers within m y body, but did not know a separating
line where one ended and the others began.
A lw ays the body is apparent and so also the thought
expression. But w ithin there is thought o f an inspiring
character revealing hidden powers. This is a part o f the
other two. But what is physical and natural to the body
and w hat part beyond, I could not tell.
A ll know the body grows. A ll know thought w ith the
years m ature and the individual grows in intelligence w ith
study and experience.
A ll are fam iliar w ith traditional belief, and the w ay
life responds to environm ent.
C ulture and ignorance are apparent but when it comes
to subconscious powers, there is doubt and fear beyond
ordinary comprehension.
So fresh from an enlightening voyage, I determined to
fix the very simple separateness, so that others reading
m ay know.
The M aster o f the lodge gave the H igher Self as the
Prophet— who associates in all body affairs— and who at
[261]
\
262 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
times separates from the m aterial, to petition the Spiritual,
and bring the Pilgrim abroad.
Thus he gave to the Prophet tw o distinct duties. One
to com fort the body, while the other petitioned the throne
o f grace bringing the body as a supplicant.
H ere the body asked believing and received according
to faith. So the Prophet became some one to talk to as a
fixin g process, according to culture, and faith.
W hile alw ays helping intelligence b y an inward con­
versation regarding all things o f m om ent. H e also brings
the body intelligence to prayer and to another personage
that is the messenger o f God doing H is w ork in the body
and life o f m ankind.
This is the Pilgrim as a representative o f the “ I A M ”
and so the three personalities are allied to the fourth from
whence they come.
One the outer sheath, another an intelligence of it, and
that controlled by an inner conscience, and this latter at­
tuned to the w ithin " I A M ” .
Thus the Prophet becomes a m onitor o f doing, in im­
pressing the law o f right. In giving inspiration to do the
right and in freeing itself from the bondage o f matter,
by going to G od in prayer.
Then he so disciplines the body that it becomes obedient
to an inner call, even to the extent o f laying individuality
dow n to give freedom to the Prophet and Pilgrim .
I knew long before this the subconscious gave impor­
tant activities to the Pilgrim .
I was aware o f the presence o f the " I A M ” and the Pil­
grim pow er o f healing the Sick.
I also knew the Prophet and his subconscious needs,
but had not separated these powers into scientific prin­
ciples.
N o w I knew the Prophet did m any things within the
scope o f subconscious revelation, not a part o f the Pil­
grim .
mass*
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 263
H e cured diseases as did the Pilgrim , but his diseases
were lim ited to suggestion, and the reflex o f having the
God part o f the Pilgrim shaping body life.
It is a feeling o f belief and conviction. Som ething that
raises the body vibration because there is a living belief o f
God within.
The Prophet has these powers o f the subconscious and
in addition thereto, can contact the Pilgrim to do the
M ightier works o f Soul, banishing the sicknesses o f it and
the body.
The Prophet, while m aking cures, also made mistakes
in judgm ents.
H e w ould feel the pricks o f condem nation and resent
undue criticism .
In that, he was the same as the body.
H is process o f cure was the same as atuning to the P il­
grim , that is, tuning in, to be atone w ith the patient.
Then follow ed vibration and concentration w ith sug­
gestion.
This is the same as the Silence o f prayer, only it is not
crossing the border line of objective consciousness, and so
the individual is at one w ith objective thinking.
The Pilgrim connected me to him, through m editative
prayer. For in m editation the body would tire and I
sleep. Even a sleep o f surrender or o f "being born again,”
that is the means o f releasing the Pilgrim . Thus the P il­
grim comes through instant negation. Either in sleep or
when the body was negative.
It seems like a new discovery w ith everything respond­
ing, but is as old as prophecy. For it is that state o f mind
where time and time limits are not present. A time w ith
the Soul seeing, that is different from the body surrender
to the Prophet.
The Prophet surrender is one o f the body and mind sur­
rendering objective things of the present to do another
something o f im portance.
2 6 4 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
T h at too, m ay be called the body sleeping, but does not
go into the Soul State. A ll o f w hich means degrees of
surrender in m editation that result in solving problems
o f every day w ork.
The Prophet w ould listen to me and discuss these things
in a self talking w ay until the body and mind responded
to negation. A n d then there follow ed a transition, not so
deep as that causing the Pilgrim to come abroad, but clear­
ing aw ay doubt o f that discussed, w ith a solution fol­
low ing.
O r it m ight be the w ay o f Suggestive therapeutics, to
cure some offen d in g local disease. (Local here meaning
functional, in contradiction to constitutional.)
These times became periods o f inspiration, for they
solved problem s and cured disease in an inspirational way.
N o t alw ays was the answer clear, nor consciousness be­
yond the m uddling line o f criticism ; but the Prophet did
take hold and do things the body and mind could not do.
It is how ever a process o f relaxation, for the Prophet
demands a cleared w ay, before he can do the w ork or talk
to the Pilgrim .
Thus he demands the same process as the Pilgrim, but
not as deep.
The body and m ind are the surrender part, (and espe­
cially the m in d ), for it carries reasoning to the parting
o f the ways. T h in kin g it has a solution, it becomes ego­
tistic, even when the Prophecy is connected w ith revela­
tion and gives an answer. So tenacious is personal opin­
ion, it lasts beyond giving up. Have a care and beware.
Egotism does not cure.
Sometimes the change o f m ind is instant, but usually
follow s sleep and that is at n igh t; and so, to go to sleep on
a proposition is a philosophy o f law . T he law of subcon­
scious revealing.
Then there is another negation form o f meditation,
that takes the fact o f subconscious understanding into ac-
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 265
count. It is the o ft repeated acceptance o f parts o f law
until the whole becomes plain. Then all is unfolded as a
complete picture.
This is the kind that makes a profession out o f isolated
experience— o f facts— and is the method o f professional
life.
A ll individuals follow this law in their profession. The
sorry part is they do not depend more on the inside rath ­
er than the w ritten or expository. A nd so only get the
objective, when the source o f inform ative law is always
within.
Know ledge is revealed through m editative principles or
dwelling upon objective things— that give the source o f
them. A nd again— in the Soul realm we come to the
truism o f Christ. "L a y down a life to find it” . It is the
M aster’s w ay o f com ing through.
A ll states o f m ind are approached through the same
principle o f renunciation and denial— of the things not
com patible w ith truth. T h ey all have to be, b y body sur­
render— then Prophet Surrender, and Pilgrim obedience.
The Prophet talks, listens, suggests and answers ques­
tions. H e calls me to prayer— to petititon about prob­
lems we neither know . H e is the "still small voice” o f
inspiration and sometimes the "in effab le w ord” calling
the Pilgrim to action.
H e knows the Pilgrim is the messenger o f the " I A M ” ,
carrying pow er to make the mind and body a servant
doing his w ill in curing, upbuilding and giving the Proph­
et power to speak the "W o rd ” to the body.
H e must be approached in obedience— o f body and
mind, for w ith him egotism, and its afflictions are laid
upon the A ltar because objective, and do not belong to
the kingdom.
Y e t within he is always a servant, listening and w illing
to come forth as a messenger o f the " I A M ” in w ork to
cure and straighten out all crooked places. Thus the
266 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
body m ust purge itself, and say, "H ere I A M Lord; do
w ith me as Y o u w ill” .
It is the bodies supreme call— and renunciation— the
same as the M aster made— in H is last prayer when he
said: "N o t m y w ill but thine be done” .
T he Prophet takes up the message— and while the body
sleeps— there is a transition from the m aterial to the spirit­
ual— and the end o f strife.
The process is alw ays the same, and always a personal
call, fo r the three are one. One, though always one is
asleep— when the other tw o are awake.
M ost o f the tim e it is the P ilgrim ; and then it is the
body, while the Prophet is the obedient servant of the
one, and director o f the other. H e also rests.
Each has its separate sphere o f w ork, when there is a
consciousness and experience o f them.
This o f course is in w ork wherein there is a fixedness
o f e ffo rt— according to plane and association, one with
the others.
T he body is responsive to experience and association of
the other tw o, and so the tone and character respond.
It is the same as cultural subjects refine a person. So
do spiritual things give a lightness o f texture— that is
alw ays a distinctive m ark o f that something unseen, but
alw ays felt.
The laws are plain, the practice simple, and the way
clear. A ll practiced in the silence. T h at is, the exercises
and suggestions o f living the life— are automatic, and
the right thing to do— because o f w hat has been received
in the silence.
These practices o f thought and body exercise are based
upon the principle o f right action— that has a freedom
from egotism. Indeed are based upon "L o ve your neigh­
bor as you do yourself” . For it is just a blanking of ego­
tism to m ake petition in prayer operative. A nd so—
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 267
is as if there is no right or left, but a straight going in
fundam entals.
It is thus the body begins to reflect powers not ordi­
narily a part o f physical existence— for there comes vision
o f conditions of things aw ay. Sometimes m any miles.
O r in the years past— because w ithin there is not the lim i­
tations o f tim e or form , so distance is alike to a vib ra­
tion opening the w ay to see and know .
O ften vision is a power o f the Prophet belonging to
the subconscious, and separate from me— and not o f the
Pilgrim .
For things in the distance are seen— when the m ind is
free and the vibration right, as if looking w ithin, and the
things seem like a slide in a kaleidoscope.
T h at is what is know n as tuning in and is not the prov-
ence of the Pilgrim , in the sense o f just seeing, but also
m ay be as a day dream— or hunch.
It is to be still w ithout active thought. I received a
letter from a student about his mother.
H e w rote she was reported to have a cancer and asked
direction about her. I gave them.
It was revery— but not "presence” .
A fte r a week or so he w rote me a letter about his
Father w orrying about w hat would become o f him in the
case o f his m other’s death.
Then I got into this mood, o f soul vision and saw his
father fall— in his office— into a last sleep.
I wrote him there was no need to w o rry about his
father, for he would die first and soon, and that part
o f the w orry would be ended.
This is when the Pilgrim is free— and is seeing as if
"present” — whether now, past or future.
So the next day— or the day after, a telegram said his
father had died— by falling in his office.
A t these instant times— the objective is in abeyance,
268 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
the Prophet awake, and the m ind blank as if looking with­
out seeing.
It is a still h unter’s gaze— or a fisherm an’s wait.
Thus the "Presence” comes closer and closer— but is
never heard, save w ithin, and therefore the association
is silent and sacred.
The Subconscious m ust be trained to perceive, and
know , and this is through m uch prayer in the silence.
Unless this is tru e vision becomes speculative— and
im aginative. For it is only practice— and devotion to the
Soul— that gives fact.
The p roof o f these things are the evidences from trial.
G ive principles o f a trial— o f experience— and then if the
hidden does not come abroad, there is something wrong
in the method or the principle is w rong.
I have tried, tested and know the practices— and the
results.
T h ey are the only ones given to m ankind as prayer,
but a bit d ifferen t from the ordinary processes.
These to resolve to go into the silence w ith a specific
object— to blank the brain from all save the object. Then
follow s love.
A silent and abstract love. N e x t is a contempletion,
as if idling w ith floating thought banishing it. Asking
about debt paying and paying.
M editation upon the goodness and glory o f God.
C onviction o f a cleared w ay, and then revelation.
Therein is the form ula, that is practical— when the
body has been controlled, and the m ind obedient. W ith­
out w hich w ill distort vision— and hinder correct see­
ing.
O ften times in negation, vision comes unawares and
then the picture is so vivid the individual is entranced
and seeing goes on to com pletion.
This accounts fo r the m any incidents reported by those
who have no understanding o f the method o f doing.
m
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 269
M any have tried— in m any and varied exalted states—
without success; become discouraged and quit.
It takes a long time to believe God cures disease and
to depend upon him.
A longer time to believe H e is happiness and depend
upon H im .
A longer time still to believe H im abundance and be­
lieve. So this is a training o f slow development.
N o wonder there is an universal call fo r signs, that
m ay be called physical, and there are no such signs for
the principle is the very wish o f "signs” is killed before
entering into a state o f mind necessary to receive.
This state o f receiving is one o f blankness. It is in pre­
lim inary blanking the brain o f all thought and especially
desirous thought.
Indeed is w ithout a seed for there is no attachm ent to
an object. Then the w ay is a new negative o f m ind to
receive the impression.
It is not m odified by reason and so is produced and
expressed as thought not reasoned upon.
A nd this can be through the Prophet as well as from
the Pilgrim .
N atu rally they are different. The Prophet is a sub­
conscious clearing o f the w ay and seeing. Vision is not
fan cy but fact and comes as a substance to be interpreted
— fo r the intelligence (m an p a r t), does not see.
M any call for help. I do not see, but perceive in mind
a something happening.
Ju st now a lady telegrams about a job. I perceive but
do not see. I telegraph. "G o to it” , and she gets the
job.____
M aybe this is foolish, but it has the evidence o f tw enty-
five years o f job getting— and solving problems for her.
It works in demonstration.
It is the Prophet that perform s most o f the things ac­
complished in the w ay o f vision, fo r m ostly all live upon
270 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
the plane o f m aterial life— and that part is cultivated
more. So vision, often called hunches— come thus.
N o w the desire fo r signs is natural. A nd it is an ego­
tistic wish, that m ust be overcom e to have the blessing of
kn ow in g; there is no distance in the Kingdom of heaven,
fo r vision annihilates tim e and distance.
There is three distinct fields in life. One the physical
that all know . H erein is form , size and thickness to meas­
ure conditions. E veryth in g is thus measured even to
thought, and reaches into the Prophet and Pilgrim part
o f life.
A n d so all things m ust have to the m aterial mind this
substance o f form .
Y e t, all the tim e, there are happenings that are not
form — and all the tim e discoveries that reach to the in­
finite, and therefore are dispelling form as a final analysis
o f things happening.
So the tim e comes when the intelligence contacts that
invisible som ething that brings distance to the present,
and then the impossible is possible. So in truth, all the
evidences o f the past are in a picture o f mind without
lim itation.
N o w the Presence o f a something w ithin— differing
from the body and yet o f it— is a fa r conception, but
true, and not practical to most o f m ankind— even though
every m aster o f religious thought built his philosophy
upon a foundation o f a M aster pow er— revelation from
God.
It is easy to accept past visitations, but hard indeed,
to m ake them present.
This, I am doing w ith the evidence o f personal exper­
ience, in w hich m any thousands have participated in and
know .
I know the Prophet does give to the individual a pos­
sibility o f annihilating distance and o f witnessing things
happening as though present. These things do not have
TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET A N D ME 271
to be form , but can be thought and intention, leading
into the future.
In this w ay— it is not impossible to forecast events.
N o r is it impossible to see correctly— the w ay out o f every
possible d ifficu lty.
It is as possible as the cure o f disease o f w hich C hrist
made the corner stone o f H is m inistry.
Finally there is the separation o f body and spirit as given
when m y Soul visited other souls here, though in heaven,
and brought back the message to m y intelligence o f the
laws underlying this power.
The Soul Vision is differen t from that o f the subcon­
scious, in that it is from the everlasting that is a source
that is not limited b y death.
It perceives and knows. It tells the Prophet the neces­
sary answers to our moot questions, and as a final some­
thing comes w ithin to shape and cure the body.
It corrects the mistakes o f the body in physical diag­
nosis o f Disease, and o f the Prophet in m anipulation and
cure o f disease.
It lifts the shadow from the mind understanding, to
give greater freedom.
Finally, it is that something that w ill lead all the race
out o f bondage into heaven— "here upon earth and
amongst m en’..
I AMI
C h a pter X X V II
T A K E I T T O T H E W O R L D A N D T E A C H A LL
M A N K IN D T H E L O V E K IN G D O M
"T a k e these things to the w orld, teaching them” . And
I did, beginning w ith the love principle.
Love is the plan o f universal happiness nothing can
stop or change.
It is the m otive behind every kindly act in every one
w ithout regard to station or caste. A lw ays it is giving,
and givin g o f the very best, fo r it is love and love is al­
w ays the same.
The com m and o f C hrist to give freely is an effort to
help some one. So the start o f giving is a kindly peace­
fu l action o f thought— is a natural assumption of correct
relationship.
It m ust be cultivated w ithin until the feeling is nat­
ural. A som ething alw ays present and in all acts.
A s a Pilgrim in a strange land— carrying the message
o f love as a cure, by right o f Spiritual development in
the w ay all men can find the beaten pathw ay to God, and
know and love H im in the body, mind, soul and Spirit—
there was need o f a home and loving association— that the
principle could be brought outw ardly.
It is some one to love and show the w ay. Some one
who needed love and whose body needed the cure o f love.
Missie gave me that.
She had been a sufferer— and having heard o f m y re­
m arkable cures, her husband came to me, and offered a
home fo r a cure. (H e was a professor in the public
schools).
[272]
TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 273
Their home was a peaceful, cultured and loving fa m ­
ily, consisting o f fou r children, the father and she. A nd
though she was a sufferer from pain— even from child­
hood— was the home sustainer.
T h ey all become interested in m y w ork w ith the pro­
fessor interested in the intellectual, and the others w ith
the phenomena. I remember the children as especially
interested in hypnotism and the practice o f breaths.
T w o o f them were am ong m y first disciples— while
the professor found another name fo r m y w ork, calling
m y practice Psycho-Theraphy, and wondered w h y the
medical profession had not used the principle.
I told him they had, but were m ixing it w ith remedies
that had no chemical affin ity, and so did not w ork. I
told him Christ said, "Leave all and follow ” .
H e asked, "F o llo w w h at?” I answered, "L o ve, and
the practice o f love— that takes com plete possession o f
another at the time o f treatm ent— called by m any, p ray­
er. A n y w ay is dom inating and does cure” .
"L o v e ” , he said, "is a very m uch abused term and easy
to be m isunderstood.” A nd added, " I think you had bet­
ter use sym pathy” .
I said, "Sym p ath y is good— but this is a feeling that
goes w ithin— to the very throne o f grace— and is not
afraid. It does cure. So look at Missie and see the e ffe c t” .
I knew Love is a very thining term, when applied to
cure as a direct help o f overcom ing disease.
I knew it would be d ifficu lt to explain— in curing the
ills o f business, social, financial and professional life unless
it became an active doing, and needed no explanation.
H ow ever I knew it to be the first great principle, and
a self cultivation o f abstraction. It therefore must be
demonstrated that w ay.
Love cured Missie, and she returned the love that cured
her in devotion.
I became one o f the fam ily, sharing their joys and
2 7 4 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
troubles. T h ey returning w ith an increasing devotion
to me and m y w ork.
Missie, w ho long ago had her nerves shattered, so that
she was especially fe a rfu l o f thunder and noises, on ac­
count o f being close to a skirmish where many were
killed during the "W a r Betw een the States” , asked me to
take her w ith me in m y trips to patients.
A n d thus w e began— on our drives and between pa­
tients, to discuss the principles o f love and the powers of
cure.
She said: "T h is love principle o f yours has taken us
all— and I really w onder at its pow er. Still I am worried,
fo r I alw ays have thought love a social something— be­
longing, and not a g ift to give” .
I told her, " I t is— and is not. 'I love you ’ means to most
possessive attachm ent. A something to hold and have,
but it is also 'the g ift at the A lta r’ and surely can be
given to G od and through H im to all the world. And
the world needs it.”
Missie felt that the love we had, was something especial;
and so she felt exalted and sad. Exalted when on these
trips— and sad when she thought o f w hat others m ay or
w ould think.
I being intent upon the love theory— and w hat I had
from the secret and latent, tried to give a feeling explana­
tion, satisfying her conscience. I knew too, if I did not,
then she w ould loose the pow er o f cure and go back to a
nervous w reck.
T hus our com panionship and wish to be one w ith an­
other, was not clandestine.
O ur acts all above board— and while love is passion,
desire and possessive— on the one hand— is abstract and
givin g upon the other.
She said: " I know , fo r m y love is very indifferent to
the past, and I seem to be building a new ideal.
" I t is devotion as well as desire. I w ant, and I w ant to
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 2 7 5
be w ith you all the time. So tell me o f something to lean
upon, as an anchor to be saved” .
I asked her if she knew w hat it is to give up— and after
saying she did— I pointed to the tw o conditions o f love
in religion. One o f Sacrifice— and the other renunciation.
A nd said, "R enounce possessiveness! I have, and it pays” .
She said, " I know , but it makes the heart ache” . Then
I told her of the patient we are going to see.
"H e is old and poor, also dirty. W e have to take love
there— and that is an antidote well to rem em ber” .
The old man was sicker than I thought, and so it
took time to quiet and get him to sleep. I used the heating
and m otion breaths— after the "C lick in g in” — and being
animated— used more force than usual.
R eturning after the e ffo rt m y body became weak,
trem bling— and made m y w alk back to the buggy w ably.
Missie noticed m y weakness and also m y eyes being tired.
She reached out her hands to help me in and said, "W h y
do you do it?” So, looking at her— and seeing her sym ­
pathy clothing me in love, we held fast in affection and
while I told o f giving to the one sick.
It was thrilling. A com forting something, that drop­
ped care away. I was silent and seemed to be hearing m y
Prophet speaking. "T h is is m y beloved son o f whom I
am well pleased” .
Then turning to her, we began the conversation upon
love— as if it had not been interrupted— by the visit, cure
and embrace.
She said, "Is not this the same as all other loves?” I
answered, " It feels— and is the greatest thing in all the
w orld— but we must crystalize it into a devotion, that
asks nothing— and gives everything. It is the Father giv-
• ))
mg .
Then thinking, fearing and hoping to have a love that
would meet physical tests— and yet continue into the
divine— I remembered M ary and M artha, o f Christ.
276 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
One devotion and the other service— that lasted through
H is m inistry. It m eant a devotion given, an ideal sus­
tained, while starving the possessive and selfish.
I could do that, and I knew Missive had, and so that
day I put myself on trial with the love of God—on one
side of the scale, and the body on the other.
H eretofore I had run and lost— when love broke
through in affection .
N o w I resolved to love and stay. So I began talking
as if hearing the well know n voice o f the Prophet, saying,
"love is all and in everyth in g” .
It is love of children, her children, of her Father, and
of all things where the hotness of the body was discounted
by devotion. I said, "Lets have that, and so that after­
noon there was solved by actual experience— the war of
love. The war between the possessive and abstract prin­
ciples of love.”
Thus we traveled aw ay from desire life— and hot in­
testines— to a peace o f God, to do H is w ill among the
people while having that something between us— giving
strength to the body and m ind to carry on always.
It is alw ays love— and love fixed in devotion from one
to another.
A love that is sym pathy and a love that is tested in the
severest trial o f m an and wom an. T h at of the call of the
flesh— that is overcom e by a call from God.
It is the m aster pow er o f discipline, fo r all must bring
love to the A ltar to function in the " I A M ” mantras to
bring the Pilgrim abroad. W ith that part accomplished
all love is the same in curing disease or any trouble o f body
or m ind.
T hrough Missie’s fam ily and their interests I had con­
fidence, peace and joy at home. A resting place and a
room fo r the silence o f prayer.
Good food and the laughter and joy o f young and
care-free people.
TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET A N D ME 177
These feed the dynam o o f physical doing.
A gain, all were interested and w anted to know .
I too, wanted to give; and that is necessary to the test­
ing principle o f love, giving to the w orld the substance
o f the M aster’s religion.
It was not differen t from other loves but had a specific
in curing o f disease. A love doctrine.
T o prove the doctrine— one night afterw ards I was
called to keep M r. S alive until his daughter came from
some distance away.
I did that, staying up all night or until early in the
m orning, when professor, Missie’s husband, came after
me, saying M am m ie was worried.
I was tired and glad of his help home. H e asked me
to hold on to him and as we walked m y body got weak
and I asked him to stop for a rest.
This m ust have frightened him, fo r when he got home
he called upon Missie, "M am m ie, you had better get some
coffee, fo r the boy is sick or tired” .
T h ey put me into a rocker, and the professor kept rub­
bing m y hands that soon lulled me into sleep.
I was awakened b y the hot taste o f coffee, that was
given me in m y sem i-awakening state. It was hot and
burned while stim ulating.
Missie, looking at me, said, "Poor man, you w ould kill
yourself fo r another” — and then kissed me. The profes­
sor said, " I too, am going to kiss the one who lives the life” ,
and then helped me to bed and I w ent to sleep w ith the
benediction of love soothing me into rest.
Thus the home conforted me through a love that con­
quered desire.
I married Missie’s daughter that year, and so began the
other discipline o f love. This part is possessive love at
home— that reaches to the abstract— in dealing w ith all
the world, and is the same conquest made in the struggle
278 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
before but opposite.
It is alw ays love but love disciplined.
G ertrude, Missie’s daughter, has met these tests, by liv­
ing a life o f confidence. She had had her moments of
doubt and anger, but fo r the most part, has traveled the
even w ay.
She has joined me in m aking patients and Disciples
w elcom e and used love to conquer.
It is the same road all have traveled in Love’s religion—
from the yonder to the now. Love that is supreme and
o f trem endous value to the race.
Trem endous when it is stripped o f egotism, ignorance
and desire. It is to separate the home from the world—
and yet be o f both.
This fam ily love is association and care in sustaining
and raising. U niversal love gives this same substance—
but has not the personal providing.
H ow ever, the substance o f love is abundance.
T hus the fam ily life had to be checked against the
pricks and arrow s o f jealousy and these pressed into devo­
tion to the supreme cause.
This too, applies to children. T h ey must be loved, and
loved out o f their physical mistakes.
I t ’s loves w ay that is tender, kind and forgiving, while
rigid in the fundam entals o f discipline— that gives culture
to the body— while showing there is another and greater
pow er in dw elling. T h at o f the " I A M ” .
N o w , the source o f this sustaining love, is in cultivating
the Prophet and Pilgrim , so the form er w ill be constant
in conversation and life, sustaining the higher self re­
garding problem s o f every day. A nd then, the Pilgrim
com ing through in and by devotion— to cure disease and
solve problems.
I have cultivated these tw o always, and so, began to rely
upon secret and silent conversations o f the Prophet— to
answer m oot questions.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 279
H e would sometimes ask to be alone— w ith the Pilgrim ,
and that meant when the body slept, so that the problem
would have a sure answer. For always there is an answer.
Y e t fo r the most part, the Prophet did the answering,
even in teaching disciples.
H e mapped out the course o f conduct and taught the
principles o f love by w hich all, in the beginning, m ust be
guided. Guided in freeing themselves from personal and
affectionate desires in giving this energy to mankind.
It then becomes the law and w ay to freedom o f the
Soul.
N atu rally the individual has to charter his or her own
course, fo r some have one d ifficu lty and others have
others. So the principle o f controlling the emotions is a
necessary control, while living a norm al life is law.
I found the Prophet did guide in this control— for from
a long past o f incidents, there came a realization o f pit-
falls that had been controlled by putting "som ething
good” in their place. A nd this was aided by regular
periods o f M editative prayer.
M y disciples were those wishing to know — because o f
witnessing cures— w ithout visible means— and so they
come "asking-believing” and were told to approach the
A ltar w ith love.
The men thought this a strange doctrine, but when
told love was a "F a ith ” of doing, took to the rest periods
and to silence w ith a feeling o f something physical going
to happen.
Most men wanted a sign, and as there are none, fo r the
very life o f the Soula is grow th. So most o f m y early dis­
ciples turned away.
Some gained a knowledge o f the Suggestive part of
therapeudics. Some hypnotized, but when this same law
was applied personally— there was fear and doubt.
Love’s w ay w ith most did not seem to overcome the
weakness of fear and doubt— when there was a feeling
280 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
o f loss in body fu n ction — as one sinks into an auto-hyp­
notic state o f T rance.
Still, m an y m en becam e devoted, loyal and believers,
saying, " I f ever you w an t help, let me know. What you
have done fo r me and mine can never be repaid” .
I taught the M e had to be disciplined to do the con­
tacting and w ork upon the plane here and now. The
m ental life understood these things the body did. And
so the physical was w hat w ork made it in efforts of a
livelihood.
T he m ind cultures itself and refines the body so that the
body puts on an air o f intelligence through study and
w ork.
Still and all the time, w ithout the inspiration o f a some­
thing calling from w ithin, the body and mind remains an
anim al. So the necessity o f the Silence o f prayer to
aw aken that som ething called the " I A M ” . A nd this is
by m antra. M antra all could understand as suggestion to
the inner unknow n.
I assured m y students this pow er w ould come abroad in
treating the sick. A ll Disciples had to know is the "G ift
had been given them ” and to go forth believing and heal­
ing. A n d this has been the plan from the very begin­
ning.
The plan is to have love at the Altar. To suggest be­
lieving. To call upon the "I AM ” and then to use the
principles of suggestion and breath— that will make these
things act within another body the same as if it were one
with God.
The plan o f the silent prayer w ill bring forth the other
personality— as something alw ays lived w ith and some­
thing alw ays talked to. A n d that is the higher Self called
the subconscious. Then w ill follow b y experience another
and tremendous force that seems to be alw ays just beyond
consciousness and is the P IL G R IM .
A something w ithin that makes possible all w ork and
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 281
the solution o f all problems. Y et never talks to the aw ak­
ened body, but does to the subconscious, and gives the
three of us as one, to do the w ork as "one who is sent” .
The Pilgrim is o f the phenomenal w orld— and that is
the place o f the Soul— and is pu rity itself. A nd so the
body m ust be purged o f im purity, and this is in the act
of absolute surrender. Therefore the Soul comes abroad—
when purged from the weaknesses o f the flesh.
Thus the devotional exercises o f prayer in the Silence
is to accomplish the outer things. First, as regards the
Prophet, and then go on to call upon the Pilgrim to do
the w ork. H e does come, and even though not talking,
H is presence is felt.
It is this wonderful fact that gives abiding Faith.
The Pilgrim representing God and doing H is w ork w ith ­
in the body, comes only when love is purged o f body de­
sire, and so the necessity o f fixin g love as a divine prin­
ciple instead of a desirous plan o f procreation. A nd then
broadening influence to take in everything, and do the
w ork o f the God Principle free from possession.
So love must be— as that given to Missie— and be con­
trolled as it was then. Lived w ith, and made free be­
cause o f a God principle— that is beyond ordinary under­
standing— and m ust be taken into the Silence to find
and know.
It is a love— I have lived these fo rty years— w ith G er­
trude, that sees the law , and takes up the presence o f ob­
stacles, so that the Silence again is the resting place o f all
fears, and the solution o f jealous problems.
It is to take Disciples to silence and there fix their per­
spective— to know love is the greatest thing in all the
world, but only great, when controlled and washed in
the white sands o f abnegation.
It is to act and live the life upon the plane o f others,
while ever having this A ltar to withstand tem ptation and
to go toward fear.
282 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
Its greatest expression alw ays being service.
Its control fastin g and Prayer.
Its expression alw ays devotion.
So "tie those tw o old goats o f V IC E and V IR T U E on
the outside— while com ing w ithin to worship the living
G od ” .
A n d rem em ber the end o f love is to associate— with the
Pilgrim in all things, fo r he represents God coming forth
in the affairs o f men.
I AMI
C hapter X X V III
T H E P R O P H E T A N D P IL G R IM A R E M E N T A L
P E R S O N A L IT IE S T O T H E " I A M ”
God is Infinite, everlasting and A L L . In the ultim ate
H e is JE H O V A H , the creator of heaven and earth and
everything therein or on. And this is an acceptable doc­
trine. Acceptable to all races o f people because o f truth.
Then follows the next statement o f man. H e is said
to be created in H is "im age and likeness” , and this must
be proven by having powers o f God come out from w ith ­
in— by a process o f prayer that w ill give evidences o f
power beyond the conception o f man.
H e, therefore, turns in worship to that which is not
perceived or heard, and that worship in the beginning is
to the wind, the rain, storms and things of the phenome­
nal w orld, not understood.
Then follow s a conception o f God as natural to all men.
It is that H e is supreme and law, w ith phenomenal things
also law.
N o w the relation of man to the world o f absolutism
fastens itself in imagination and again he turns in worship
to that which is not perceived or heard, but which is an
urge, and feels that a "som ething w ithin” is alike to the
absolute— in that it is power and also law.
L aw is that which man finds to operate always the
same. Such as the days and the years. A ll regulated by
separation, but never change.
So man seeks law w ithin and ponders upon his being,
as related to all others, and the impulse that make all act
[283]
284 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
the same. T h at is in fundam entals as in eating, drinking
and sleeping. A s to food, shelter and clothing. And as
to the pow er that makes life animate.
It is thus the m ind functioning within— and in revery
w ith that som ething alw ays adding a little more to that
w hich is already know n— gives consciousness of the "I
A M ”— A power within the same as the absolute—but
limited to the body.
There follow s this inner consciousness, while a universal
principle, cannot be loosed in the body until control is
su fficien t, and connection set up in mind to connect and
receive.
In as m uch as G od is infinite, and everlasting and al­
w ays expressing law , though silent, this within has the
same powers, and while he speaks not— is always law. A
som ething that has shaped the pattern o f the body, given
it the lim it o f years and its regulation o f law.
W ithin is G o d ’s representative called the " I A M ” . IT
cannot be talked to— but is prayed to— it gives that some­
thing to aid the body in com pliance o f law. A nd at the
beginning, is supposed to be talked to— and so there are
records o f m an talking to God. (A s for instance, Moses
on M ount Sin ia).
Y e t the factu al evidence is, there is no direct way,
even though it is evident, there is an inspired direction.
So starting at the beginning, all ask how m ay we know
God, T he " I A M ” and his relationship to the body— and
have an answer? It is, "S ta rt at hom e” .
Listen to the Seers and prophets o f old and their meth­
ods o f getting close to the infinite understanding. And
rem em ber their’s was a testing foresight. A nd their’s a
practical truth telling in a series o f Aphorisms.
T h ey w ent into the Silence and aw ay from the crowd—
and in m editation accepted the feeling o f the "Voice of
the Silence” . Spoke the words of prophecy and of truth
— as if God were standing near.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 285
H ow ever, they made this clear, it was always an im ­
pression or the interpretation o f a dream when asleep,
or a dream of another’s sleep. So they were called Seers.
M en who interpreted states o f mind that were negative.
L et’s get into the practice. Begin w ith the Silence
and then be aw ay from all other thought. Then the
traveled road to the "W ith in ” is began.
Later there w ill be a consciousness o f " I A M ” . A n " I
A M ” o f infinite power within the body. B u t being spirit
and o f God— the vestments o f the body have no w ay to
converse. For the body is on another plane— and so m ed­
itating, it becomes know n— there must be a messenger.
A messenger from the " I A M ” to the subconsciousness of
man.
This messenger being spirit or Soul, a local resident of
God, has to meet the subconscious representative o f body
and mind, who is that part o f urge and prayer— that has
always called upon God in em ergency— and does naturally,
when awakened to the Spirit. Because of his tremendous
receiving power from the Pilgrim is called the Prophet.
A ll o f which is the beaten path to God, starting w ith
the body in discipline and having a return in proportion
to the efficiency o f the Prophet in asking, and the Pilgrim
in receiving from the " I A M ” .
I f there is no urge— and no giving up— on the part o f
the body, then the Prophet can carry petitions.
A nd if there is no meditation, then the pondering prin­
ciple of the Pilgrim fails, and there is no connection w ith
the " I A M ” .
The three in one, all a part o f prayer— is a simple prin­
ciple when you think o f them as states o f mind. T o me
it was the great discovery, because thus I became conscious
of subconsciotis knowing.
It was so alike to the processes of H ypnotism , I wonder­
ed w h y all the world had not practiced the law o f laying
down the objective self to find it.
286 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
It was so alike— the Silent w ay o f meditation— I won­
dered w h y people going o ff to think problems over did
not n atu rally fall into it.
T hen I wondered if they did, w h y they had not attached
the plan to religious worship— to give every one the King­
dom o f H eaven.
I knew it w orked. W orked because it was a simple nat­
ural w ay o f laying dow n objective things to take up an­
other series o f thought. It was as in my childhood, having
abiding faith in going to meet my invisible playmates.
It is to look another in the eyes and pivoting them, im­
press thought direction, even to controlling their body
m ovem ents.
D id these childhood playm ates give evidence o f their
presence. T h ey did, by telling me o f things not known
to me.
W as it sacred and silent, and did they disappear when
others annoyed? T h ey did.
D id they accept unw anted guests? N o, never.
B u t I did fin d lost articles. See in vision, things at a
distance, but never save under the strictest rule of cir­
cum stances, in w hich there was nothing left out.
D id I try to do it independently? A n y number of
times, w ith never a successful trial.
D id I know o f H yp n otic perform ance, and was this the
same process as that o f seeing early playm ates? It was.
W as it the same process I later knew as "C lickin g in”
w ith patients, and then used in cure? It was, and is.
W as it the same as I use so often in saying, " I will
take care o f yo u ” ? It is identically the same.
Is it the same power, that I use now in visioning patients
at a distance? In seeing conditions o f business and o f ad­
justing them ? It is. <
Is there freedom from rule in the w ork. Is there a will
and a w ay o f doing these things objectively?
There is not.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 287
The principle is always the same— that o f laying the
body down in surrender, becom ing quiet— banishing ob­
jective desire— and asking-believing.
It is from the objective "clickin g in” o f m om entary
w ork, to a complete surrender o f the great and lasting.
The Prophet can and does the w ork upon the objective
plane w ith the Pilgrim ’s help. The Pilgrim touches the
" I A M ” w ith the Prophet’s help, and both depend upon
the body, for the body is in the first and last experience o f
individual Soul life here upon earth and amongst men.
So naturally the body and mind is the beginning and
conclusion o f personal spiritual powers— revealing G od’s
presence in doing things within and out o f the body— not
possible otherwise.
It is a feeling presence and not a body elation—so is
something added to the animal life— that gives an expecta­
tion of an invisible and holy presence. It is the feeling of
the Spirit of God upon one.
It can not be mistaken fo r any other feeling and trans­
cends all because it is everlasting.
To me the conception o f this principle as a God des­
cending power— and H is presence assured me o f a w ork­
ing rule to go to H im in prayer— and have H is help in
all m y outer problems— if I could control m y body and
have the Prophet as an obedient servant— to com fort me
in answer to m y difficulties— and to bring me to God in
Prayer.
I knew the barrenness of just words, I knew the w eak­
ness o f hypocrisy and resolved to ask, believing. T o ask
and cultivate know n principles o f approach.
I had no doubt o f God. N o doubt o f H is closeness to
me as a residence within.
There, H e is the " I A M ” and had the Pilgrim as a mes­
senger to the Prophet and a doer, to right body condi­
tions. I had no doubt of the Prophet, who talked to me—
288 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
solved m y subconscious problem s— and led me to the Altar
in prayer.
T he Prophet becam e a confidant and revealed to me—
through the Pilgrim — the powers o f the Soul to come
abroad w ith Physical helps.
T h us I received the Breaths, Practiced Breath and found
a rem edy— fo r most o f the diseases afflictin g mankind.
I knew the processes o f H ypnotism — through sugges­
tion, and the m ethod o f changing to different personali­
ties.
I learned the d ifferen t states o f mind that gave power
fro m w ith in— as d ifferen t states o f abstraction.
These states o f abstraction were a constant fight be­
tween the ego and that other som ething that is of the "I
A M ” .
I learned the Prophet could be w rong— in his revelation.
T h at, depending upon the degree o f abstraction.
Fin ally, I learned there is a vast difference between the
Prophet in seeing outer things at a distance, than in the
Pilgrim revealing.
T he Prophet requires a state o f m ind— that is stilled
through hearing. H e requires a conquering power of
w ithholding thought, while focussing. Then there seems
to be a sliding aw ay o f all objects o f m atter— and a clear
line o f seeing W hile the Pilgrim means surrender with the
Prophet. It is a seeing w ithout seeing and a know with­
out know ing.
I saw patients that w ay at first as I did Clate Moore at
a distance while his nose was bleeding.
I telegraphed him to turn over and the bleeding would
stop.
H e did and it did. Thus was given the fixedness of the
m ind life to see at distances.
H ow ever the plan o f abstraction had to be free from de­
sire to have the picture true and this depends upon the
pow er o f "click in g in” to the conditions.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 289
First, it is clicking in p artly to condition or thing. This
is atonement, w ith doubt.
Second, it is clicking in to an abstract state o f mind,
called the subconscious. T hat also is atonement, but w ith ­
out doubt.
This is divided into a God principle— where the Prophet
contacts the Pilgrim — or to a state o f the Prophet. This
latter is subconscious and is limited to that plane.
Third, there is that lapsing sleep o f Trance that leads to
the Pilgrim , w ith him w orking in the body and mind as a
revealer o f solutions— something possible when sought by
any individual w orthy.
Then there is the complete separateness o f body and
mind, wherein the Pilgrim is for a time, free from the
body— and gives to it through the Prophet, inform ation
regarding the laws o f G row th— and the exact w ay— these
things come abroad.
There is no mistakes in God, no mistakes in the " I A M ” ,
but the processes o f the mind recording the Pilgrim are
subject to error. Also the methods o f "click in g in” are
subject to error. A nd then desire o f recording m ay change
truth into error.
So all things must be tested in action here— and now,
and the test by truth. A truth that makes for freedom.
For it must be realized the Pilgrim has knowledge o f
the Infinite; and gives and gives— to the mind when at­
tuned.
It is always accurate, for there is no Socrates or A ris­
totle that can depict the intricacies o f mind like this mas­
ter-power. A nd so nothing can so easily solve human
problems.
It was thus, after due preparation— in healing the sick
— that this part o f the Lord’s w ork unfolded itself to
me.
The Prophet o f me began answering problems regard-
290 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
ing emotions and conditions— o f right amongst those ad­
m inistered unto. O ld m an K asked the question upper­
most in the minds o f the needy.
Why do the old grow useless, are no longer wanted—
or respected in opinion as once was the case. Why does
age make individuals—a burden to those they love?
I did not know , fo r I had never thought of it as some­
thing that m ight question love.
I knew it was the law fo r the body to die— but I felt
love never did.
So the Prophet said to the old man, "Y o u are in error
about age being a hinderance to love.
"L o v e is the one great thing that is ever young— and
so age becomes one w ith it— in memories and the joys of
life.
Age may give the fear of death— but love conquers
fear. So remember the power of love is to make you
young— and so love into life divine.
"W h en m an fears age, death and poverty, it is because
he has not realized the "K in gd om o f God w ithin” .
"A lw a y s the joy o f the old is in their love o f the young.
"L e t this love abide, and there is no old age. The Soul
does that when it interpenetrates the body with a hope
born o f the " I A M ” .
"H o w can I know the 'I A M ’,” he asked.
"T h a t is the feeling w ithin that has no death— and so
all have felt it sometim e” .
A young m an, w orried o f his w ork and wondering if
he w ould alw ays be poor, asked, ” Why are so many poor?”
I heard the Prophet saying, "th e poor we have with us
alw ays” , because of not knowing the source of riches.
The Kingdom is always within and so it is to the King-
dam all must go— asking-believing to have prosperity.
When this within is abundant to the conscious man—
he can put that feeling to the test of work.
The principle is efficiency in knowing and doing, and
in asking-believing, with kindness to all and malice to
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 291
none. BELIEVIN G in work and ASKIN G-BELIEVIN G
IS LAW .
Interest and efficiency gets jobs.
A nother asks about covetousness and is answered by the
Prophet. " I t is one o f the great sins o f m ankind— that
puts personal acquirem ent above G od’s abundance.”
M an m ust not covet, lest he loose his own Soul. God
gives in abundance. He has never endorsed covetousness.
Beware and substitute love.
A student, doubtful o f his career, asks about being a
law yer, and is told, "Scarcely shall a law yer enter into
the kingdom o f heaven” . M eaning no skilled evader o f
the right can be on the side o f righteousness.
Law of a man-made character, is often special privilege
where equity is lost.
It is not law, but the application of it that hinders
righteousness. Let love abide and law is the greatest of
professions.
Then it reveals the "Kingdom of Heaven” .
Is it right to make a p rofit o ff the toil o f others?
asks another.
Most assuredly replies the Prophet. Gain is wages and
every one is entitled to wage, for that is the basis o f p h y­
sical equity.
A just wage is abundance in the m aterial life but has
with it the tempation of covetousness. Keep the first and
leave the last for that is love’s way.
Therefore, in trading and merchandising, "ask believ­
ing” of the "I AM” and taking this outward— there can
not be failure or covetousness. Just trade for righteous
gain.
A young mother asks, "W h y did God take m y baby
aw ay” , and said, "H e is unjust” .
The Prophet answered: "G od is never unjust— and
death does not destroy life. Y o u r child is alive and will
be always.
"D eath is a transition and not a separation. It is the
292 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
form that passes— and that like all things material is con­
soled by memory.
"Take heart, God is here. There is no death. You will
feel Angel fingers touching you all through life” .
"W h y does love fa il” , asks a w ailing w ife.
" I t does n o t” , answers the Prophet. "W e fail, love
never.
"L o v e is givin g o f the best you have always to the ob­
ject o f you r affection . I f it is not received 'love is return­
ed to you— heaping over and pressed dow n’.
"D o not mistake physical inharmony for love’s way.
One dies and the other never. Take up your cross and
follow the love light and all will be well.”
So the Prophet o f me answers questions common to
hum an kind. These questions are upon the plane of the
one asking. B u t the Prophet answers— always from the
Soul— and through the Pilgrim .
H is is an association o f the years— and so has a close
kinship w ith the Pilgrim — and " I A M ” , because he carries
me to them in devotion and love.
T h at is the Prophet is the personal revealing power of
the Soul, and grow s closer to the Soul as the body grows
in years.
H e makes the body kindly and sym pathetic— to at last
m ellow into age w ith a tranquil outlook— and a revery
o f love giving to the young— the wisdom o f age.
There can be no sweeter conception— o f life ending in
the body— to begin in im m ortality than this.
W ithout H im — the body is em p ty; w ith H im , all is
well. H e is alw ays givin g— a love never dying; for this
love is to save all m ankind.
H e tells all men to look at the eternal— and not at the
ego, fo r com fort. Saying, "C a rry on— the ego cannot
w in, even though— fo r the most part— all men live in it?
"Its faults and sins die w ith it. Com e out from under
the claw o f the lion into a love o f brotherhood.”
I AM I
C hapter X X IX
B E IN G B O R N A G A IN IS F R O M T H E S P IR IT A N D
N O T A B O D Y IN C A R N A T IO N
The feeling o f the Prophet and Pilgrim being a part o f
me is the result o f things happening not explained by
ordinary reasoning methods. H appenings that began in
childhood w ith playm ates not visible— to others— and like
incidents— that have happened through the years.
These playm ates o f childhood gave me inform ation o f
a character decidedly Spiritual, though m y parents and
fam ily called them "m ake-believes” .
These contacts gave facts and understanding o f things
outw ard that confounded m y superiors. For I could
through them find things lost, help people in trouble and
even solve the problems o f child school life.
It was astounding, marvelous and gratifyin g to m y
child life, but because it was spiritual and the fact o f sec­
ular knowledge stills, a cloak seemed to settle upon me
and I lost perception. T hat is, all but the sleeping part
o f me.
So the more objective one is, the less subjective, until
the form er is lost. For there cannot be tw o things at the
same time. Thus childhood’s sim plicity and love faded,
as the years put on the guile o f hiding real feeling.
The w ay to find the lost is to go back to childhood feel­
ing— and that is laying down a life to find it.
T o go back to childhood is to put on the garb o f inno­
cence, and this is the subjective part o f every one.
The objective and subjective represent tw o distinctive
[293]
294 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
expression o f intelligence. One belongs to outer activi­
ties and the other, to that p art o f the mind that retains
experiences o f livin g objectively, and also a subconscious
pow er o f its ow n.
This Subconscious is approached through meditation
and processes o f m ental action where by the objective,
is subdued fo r a time.
A s Buddha under the Bodhi tree, or Christ in His last
night o f Prayer before C ru cifixio n . It is Devotion.
N o w the method in H ypnosis, either upon others or
an auto-state, is the same. It is devotion.
For the subconscious and hidden is associated with the
phenom enal w orld.
Phenom enal, because o f not being norm al or common
to living experience. Y et, it does exist, and this is at­
tested b y universal experience.
T o know the w ay o f association w ith it, is through
objective experience when there is a give up— to the ordi­
n ary w ay o f thinking.
This the Masters call fatigue, Devotion, or Caste.
The w ay is illustrated in various and often worthless
rites.
From dancing, w alking on hot irons, by control o f rep­
tiles, through singing or w histling, and in various states
o f fren zy. A ll o f w hich m ay or m ay not be true.
N o one who has not tried knows. A n d cannot, because
looking in the opposite direction. For always, the objec­
tive is outw ard and the subjective within.
C hrist said to N icodem us: "V e rily , verily, I say unto
thee, except a m an be born again, he cannot see the king­
dom o f G od” .
H e was m aking a distinction between the subective
and the everlasting o f the Soul, and the obective and ma­
terial death o f the body.
H is was an illustration o f the tw o bodies. One immor­
tal and the other m ortal. A nd an asking for the mind
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 295
life to be w ith that w hich does not die.
It is the same now, for the obective reasoning self must
surrender, so that it w ill not interfere w ith meditation.
M editation is that part o f mental life that gives up the
desires o f the body to worship God.
T o do this in practice is being alone and in Silence.
The first part o f silence is to contemplate the happen­
ings o f the day. Those outside of the ordinary.
It is then to settle into a mental revery and to contem ­
plate the phenomenal. Ju st as I did, when entering into
a state o f being at one w ith childhood playm ates, or when
in first experience to w atch others go into hypnotic sleep.
It is the same feeling I felt, when by auto-suggestion I
lapsed into sleep o f trance.
I am persuaded all people have these experiences; and
so this narrative is not uncovering the unknow n— but a
clarification of the w ay— to the source o f subjective
knowledge.
It is to go to that part o f all— that is devotional and a
part o f the " I A M ” .
It is moreover hidden, and can only be approached by
the devotion o f prayer.
A nd this is the surrender Christ meant— when giving
instruction to Nicodem us.
The term Prophet m ay sound confusing, until it is
understood to mean a change o f mental attitude. Then
it straightens out into a hypnotic state— and is that time
o f mental giving up to the supreme.
T h at is— there is a state entered that is alike to norm al
sleep o f the body, but supersedes that, in that it is also
an awakening o f another personality. Then the messen­
ger o f the " I A M ” comes abroad in doing.
Still I remembered childhood playmates. There was a
part of me that talked and listened, and another did not.
So the listening part is always the inner consciousness—
and not the body me.
296 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
This listening part is the Prophet.
It was thus the Prophet came into constant companion­
ship, because know ing G od w ithin could be approached
only through laying the body down. A nd knowing this
to be subconscious w ith a messenger o f the " I A M ” to
it, m y messenger approached him in atonement to the
Spirit— so the road from the outer to the inner is a beaten
p ath w ay o f devotion. A devotion o f Silence and of
doing.
B u t he has to be cultivated— and so all outer problems
are discussed as if he personally is another body walking
beside me and answ ering all questions from the long ex­
perience o f greater know ledge. O r asking me to join him
in prayer where he can contact the Pilgrim and have an
answer to prayer.
These tw o are separate— fo r one is outw ard and talks
to me. The other is inw ard and I feel him when he is
doing the w ork.
The Pilgrim is a preponderant " I A M ” force— that at
the beginning o f discovery I thought as God— and talked
to him as God. T h at is, m y Silence was talking to God.
Later the truth o f God being infinite— and the talking
part o f me being m aterial— I realized the necessity of a
chem ical change. (For that I had from physics), to make
atonem ent.
Then I realized this something was called by Masters
Pilgrim (a traveler to a shrine or a Prophet, foreseeing or
speaking under divine d irectio n ). The latter is the per­
sonal and the form er the Shrine giver o f the powers of
the " I A M ” .
Then I fixed the relation o f these tw o to the " I A M ” ,
and to me.
The Pilgrim is the giver o f the gifts o f God, or the
Father in me. The Prophet is the outer self o f this triune
and gives o f the substance o f them through the body.
Thus the three fitted into the F A T H E R , SO N A N D
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 2 9 7
H O L Y G H O S T direction o f the Christ.
G etting these straight in mind— there followed an un­
derstanding o f direction not before known.
The body after all, is the real acting basis and m aterial­
ly m an must believe— and believing talk to the outer as­
sociate, who has connection w ith the Pilgrim .
H e carries the w ant o f the body to the " I A M ” , and'
thus the body wants to come to the throne o f Grace— to
be answered according to fitness and law.
There is never a mistake in law, but the petition can,
and often is m aterial and attached to egotism, ignorance
and a w ant fo r things not due m ankind. So often there
is no answer.
The answer comes when there is com pliance of law in
asking.
A nd this is always an acceptance o f law and not a desire
g ift— unless desire is also law.
T o give me is not a part of prayer— no more than the
body w ant is work.
A lw ays the basis o f prayer is love. A love that gives
and is law.
Love is everything to every one, and so what more natu­
ral than to have abiding love— in going to the unknown.
It is surely the substance o f happy association here. A n
association that lays care down to associate in harm ony.
It is love’s w ay to love one another. T o be happy, kind,
generous and patient.
Love is the w ay to the A ltar— and the basis o f all true
prayer. It first purges the body— and then calls upon the
unknown through the Prophet asking. Then in m edita­
tion there comes the "clickin g in” to an inner conscious­
ness w ith the Pilgrim revealing the " I A M ” who hears
and answers.
So love carries its message to this within by and through
devotion; and is the same as " I love you” — carried across
the border o f objective thinking— into a state o f medita-
298 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
tion. It is the greatest thing on earth and in heaven, be­
cause com m on to every one seeking peace within the
heart.
M y love has been an attem pt to live this life. To love
patients, people and conditions as they are.
M y prayer has been that o f the Silence, w ith love as an
inner confidence. It is an attem pt to be silent and alone
w ith love. T h en , have it lead in resolve to purge and
cleanse, so there w ould be a clear w ay to God. It is to
listen and w ait, and then com e forth doing as the urge
demands.
It is this doing that has proved the w ay good and very
good. A n d while the w ay is over a rough hewn road,
w ith m an y mistakes in both the going to and return of
the sp irit; it does lead to an understanding o f what con­
stitutes prayer and the o ffice o f both the Prophet and
Pilgrim .
A n d fo r that reason is L ove’s w ay justified.
T he ordinary love expression o f one body to another
does not cure disease, whether o f the body, mind or Spirit.
It does not cure social conditions, or the Sins of the
Soul— and so it is also necessary to cultivate love of ab­
straction. A bstraction is a feeling w ithin o f an affec­
tion that instantly turns to the cure o f all inharmony,
whether o f the body or social conditions.
It is this love that is cultivated in a H o ly person. A
love that carries w ith it peace— and all is peace. It is cul­
tivated by silence, and thus love is by living it from the
personal to the universal.
Still and alw ays, it is a cultivation against the pricks
and arrow o f personal hurt, to "fo rgive them Father,
they know not w hat they do” . Thus from the earliest be­
ginning every cure and phenomenal happening became a
facto r in love experience to rem em ber and emulate.
The w ay and how, cleared the pathw ay to greater things
that made the law o f doing a factor o f knowing. For
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 299
every discovery o f subconscious power o f going in to
states of subconsciousness, were remembered and placed
upon the plastic brain— as the w ay and law — until m any
gifts came abroad and were recorded as natural functions
o f mind.
W hen there was a "C lick in g in” to a patient that re­
vealed activities o f mind not used before, then this action
is a verification o f law . Thus was given Breath— and the
successive states o f subconscious com ing abroad and doing
w ork.
It was this method that fixed the idea o f blanking the
brain— so that floating thought would not interfere with
vision. It is Concentration w ith a seed in and w ithout—
com ing into action.
The same discoveries went on— in noting the states o f
mind— in going into personalities. The necessity o f "c lic k ­
ing in” to all states and the further knowledge that a
complete separation from the body is the method o f being
as one w ith the " I A M ” and of know ing the fruits o f the
Soul.
It is a state where there is no distance— and no lim ita­
tion to knowledge, for that is always o f the body, and
this o f the Spirit. Y et, acceptance o f belief is necessary.
O f course the body has a regular and direct form of
know ing, through persistent study upon a given subject.
It is often slow and takes most of the allotted years o f
man to gain even an inkling o f the Science o f things.
So the body grow ing to know — as the Soul knows— has
to measure its fitness to vibration o f the things sought.
It w ill take years— as do all things, but the result is fo r
all. Christ gave what the world can follow without hav­
ing his knowledge. Still the world should not forget that
he also was human.
H um an, H e went o ff to pray— and thus used hte Silent
prayer always. I can do no less; I subdue the body in the
same w ay— use the subconscious in the same w ay— and
follow through in the same w ay.
300 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
It is in the silence— asking and thus has— come to me—
laws o f going to G od— and actions returning— that have
proved the plan.
In discovering and fastening upon the plastic brain
these laws have been accum ulated in healing the sick, in
straightening crooked places, and m aking one conscious
o f the K ingdom here.
Because o f accum ulative law came m any, asking for
cure and to be taugh— teaching was in giving the things
found in this silent com m union as the result of exper­
ience.
Some came sick, and w anted relief, and some to know.
Both in a measure became disciples, and I taught them as
I im agined C hrist taught.
N o t b y m iracle— but in telling o f the message of health
and how one can get into a subconscious state, where,
being at one w ith H is messenger, disease is cured, and all
inequalities made right.
Charles, one o f m y early disciples, stayed a long time,
w ithout getting the inside or subconscious view. Another
Charles came fo r one night, and left w ith the conception
so thoroughly fixed, he began healing and fru itfu l peace
follow ed his effo rt.
One did not feel this pow er w ithin. The other did.
Thus w ith most o f the first class w ork, m any were
called and few choosen. It seems so easy, but is not when
tryin g unless the laws o f clicking in are followed
For the grow th o f discipleship is as in all culture and
understanding, made o f practical principles.
These come from elim inating m uch that has been fast­
ened as essential to religion.
God, the infinite, is usually an outside worship, with­
out the developm ent o f the " I A M ” and within.
H eaven is also located w ithout, where w ithin, is peace,
and faith in the messengers o f the " I A M ” . A nd these
personalities only come through m uch prayer and fasting
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 301
— in fixin g within the joy o f heaven upon earth and
amongst men.
T o fix heaven within is also to fix the God principle
here. A nd that is in renouncing the ego o f the body as
regards phenomenal powers, and to give the Father credit
for them.
This is renunciation and sacrifice of the great body be­
lief, in which it is resurrected as a Spirit and an individual.
T h at is it is translating m atter into Spirit.
R eally most feel, " O f course I can do nothing and the
very conception o f healing is left for secular things.” For
it is only when the personality o f the Pilgrim is realized
that there is a w ay o f contacting healing power.
Then the physical practices are born o f m uch experience
in Breath, Posture, Religious Observance, Suggestion and
Applications that are a part o f the Prophet— and these
are not self-evident practices, and so m ust be felt in Faith
and the result o f doing. So m any turn away.
It is not possible to see w ithin or see the Prophet or P il­
grim . These are states of being that become personalities
by association. A nd association is a law o f grow th from
outer to an inner understanding. The grow th is in feeling
o f inner power above and beyond the ordinary— that can
be aroused by outer mental attitudes o f devotion and sur­
render.
The Prophet being the natural representative o f sub-
consciousness— and that which is a part o f reasoning,
called conscience, has all the past to guide in the present,
and therefore, is set up a talking relationship w ith one’s
self that becomes very real and personal.
E very one has this companionship o f self-talking ar­
rangement, and so take up the problems o f the day that
w ay. It is alike to advice from a friend, only more inti­
mate. A nd leads to a feeling o f something deeper— that
is a Comforter.
H e, we find, is at peace w ith us— when we go to H im in
302 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
faith . H e comes through— the Prophet part— in prayer
and devotion.
D evotion is based upon Faith. A nd in the beginning,
Faith is w ith out w orks” . Then Faith brings action in
w ork— and this is "F a ith w ith w orks that justifies” .
"F a ith w ith w orks is the Pilgrim . So he too, by works
becomes a personality.
Faith dem onstrated in w orks destroy body doubt and
fear, and so the Pilgrim is w ithout doubt or fear.
H e does the m igh ty w orks w ithin the body, and so im­
pressed upon the body and m ind the power o f the spirit,
that it too, m ay have faith.
W hile Faith is natural to the Prophet and Pilgrim; it
is not to the body.
I have alw ays doubted, even though knowing of the
continuous doing o f the past, the power o f healing in every
im m ediate case o f healing.
So alw ays, it is necessary to "C lic k in” or change from
the personal to the Prophet, or even to the Pilgrim, to
have the feeling o f "O n e who is sent” — and then do the
w ork.
A lw ays there m ust be this change w ithin as a transition
to the pow er that does. Rem em ber, I know that it is
and that the pow er is regular, but this doubt of body
fitness is present.
It is this com m on and universal change, that gives
reason to the com m on term o f "conversion” , "T h e Saw­
dust T ra il” o f great revivals and "th e changed o f heart”
in church parlance. Therefore, while in a w ay the pro­
cess has alw ays been, teaching these personalities to stu­
dents and disciples has alw ays been a d ifficu lt task. To
every one it is a grow th from the outer to an inner con­
science, that is traveled through experience, and "Faith
w ithout w orks” is before experience.
The doubt and fear of me disappear in the transition
of the Prophet and there can be none in the Pilgrim.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 303
And this is always a feeling and conviction within of
" The Father within me He doeth the works” .
T o teach these personalities is d ifficu lt, fo r God is ac­
cepted as an outside force and the Kingdom o f heaven
beyond the earth. A nd so m any came to be taught, but
few gained the conception o f God w ithin or the " I A M ”
and so the m any departed.
W alter, one o f m y early disciples, came because o f a
cure. H e was a likable and lovable companion, but could
not see that the w ork I was doing— connected w ith the
"old time religion” . H e said, "Y o u have the power, but
you do not act like a preacher.
"Y o u r prayers are silent— and I think if you wanted to
be baptized, you would go o ff alone. The same as you
do in silence.”
I told him I would show him a real prayer, and then,
as fate would have it, I was called upon to see M rs. D .,
who was hem orrhaging from the kidneys.
She was having the last rite o f her church, at the time
o f arriving.
The case was desperate, and so I went to w ork at once,
w ithout regard to the spoken prayers. These stopped and
I proceeded until the lady had ease and the hemorrhage
stopped.
Then I took the laughing breath— as a cleansing and a
righting condition. (It is one of the Four great breaths
o f healing). I laughed and the preacher and W alter
thought me sacriligious.
It was not for that purpose, but they could not know
objectively.
I carried W alter to m any cases, but he thought the
w ork was body magnetism, and something else not given,
and so turned to body m anipulation as his w ay.
It is therefore, a regret, that these personalities are so
hard to perceive, that m any good people turn away, or
stay as patients and not students.
V
I AM I
C h a pter X X X
I A M T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N A N D T H E LIFE—
T H E I A M T H A T IS I A M
" I A M the resurrection and the life; he that believeth
in me— though he were dead, shall live again.”
These are the creative words always repeated as a man­
tra in prayer periods— to bring the " I A M ” into con­
sciousness.
Thus the start tow ard consciousness o f the "Living
G od ” is in suggestion.
Suggestion that at last clears aw ay objection and dis­
belief to give flashes o f infinite association; and then, at
once— there is revelation and conviction o f within is the
pow er— not only subjective but objective to ask believing
and have prayer answered.
B y this beaten path I contacted a power within that
connects intim ately w ith God. God and the " I A M ” .
T he " I A M ” w ith the Pilgrim and the Pilgrim with the
Prophet. A nd last the Prophet w ith me.
These are the intim ate steps o f m ental belief to carry
all people to God. For it is the scientific method of going
to the inner consciousness and to have a feeling— "The
spirit o f G od is upon me, fo r H e has anointed me to
preach the Gospel to the poor; he has sent me to heal the
broken hearted, to preach deliverance to the captives. To
set at liberty them that are bruised” .
Suggestion is the law o f repeating M antra’s o f some­
thing accepted as a truth. It starts w ith Me and from Me
to the H igher self, called the Prophet and from the Pro­
phet to the Pilgrim — and from H im to the " I A M ” .
[304]
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 305
I f in this process of meditation there is a faith lacking
nothing. A nd as Christ says, " I feel the Spirit o f God
upon M e” . Then there follow s a faith— "doing the w orks”
For repeating makes a real feeling o f conviction as if fin d ­
ing a long lost friend.
Suggestion, however, must have a truth basis to u n ­
fold a living principle. A ll others are classified under the
heading of "Erroneous perception” , and fail because all
illusions m ust fail.
T ru th is demonstrated by "M igh ty w orks” ; therefore,
all vital acceptances or statements o f the N ew Testam ent,
must be tested by actions here and now— and fixed by
outer activity into principle.
Thus Suggestion becomes the beaten path o f fixin g
C hrist’s statements o f the "K ingdom of G od” being here.
The power is feeling the Spirit, in healing the sick o f
all manner of "diseases and sicknesses” .
The method o f doing this is all im portant.
It is to fix the idea as a belief in the mind, and to dis­
cuss it w ith the Prophet. H e to take it to the Pilgrim in
prayer, and he, to relay that in meditation to the " I A M ” .
If and when this process clicks then the process is a
F E E L IN G of the " I A M ” com ing aboard to do the very
things prayed for.
The relaying from the " I A M ” is revelation and inspira­
tion— that makes the body do in accordance w ith that
which has been revealed.
Thus in healing, I believed w ith all m y heart, Christ
did heal the sick, and gave that power to all others who
would believe—-and have faith to do.
H e had to have the Faith o f doing— and so do all, but
before that, he had Faith. A faith o f going to the " I
A M ” and finding G od’s presence.
So when any one gets a feeling o f the "Sp irit of God
upon them ” it is because they have gone from the body
r
BHSP5B
306 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
part to the Prophet, and then through the Pilgrim, to the
(I A M • W hen there is relayed— as an acceptable truth—
this presence” — and so in healing— the Pilgrim comes
fo rth and the Prophet records.
N o w rem em ber the Suggestion is affirm ative and— pos­
itive^ in going w ithin— and is negative and revealing from
the I A M ” , to the body— where through action of the
body it becomes the doer.
C h rist’s healing and H is m inistry, is alike in principle
to yours, mine and everybody’s. H e healed with the
Spirit m anifest in the body. The body responds by ac­
tions, and the e ffe c t is bringing the Spirit aboard.
It is in quivering fingers, tenseness o f body and pivot­
ing o f eyes. A ll easily and discernible, and so the ques­
tion o f w hat makes the body tense when curing another?
T he answer is, this tenseness, is in an effo rt o f the Spirit
to com e through. It is alw ays so, though not often noted
— and never to those who are not cognizant o f the Proph­
et. H e is the recorder— that remembers each effort and
records the principle.
N o w , m ostly every one has had these periods o f tense­
ness, as if forcin g the body to do, but few remember or
know the routine. T h at starts w ith the body belief— and
through suggestion carries belief to the throne o f Grace—
and there gets the feeling o f "T h e Spirit being upon me” .
It is this recording that gave me the Peace treatment.
A treatm ent that uses the hands to rest upon the forehead
and over the heart, when the m antra is repeated of peace,
peace everyw here.
That is the naked formula, hut behind it with the skilled
Spiritist, is the Heat and Motion Breath to still emotions
of the body.
This becomes a seem ingly unconscious effo rt, but is in
reality a conviction o f repeated effo rt, wherein there has
been, and is a m arked settling o f peace upon the patient
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 307
or house, and is the action that has been attained in going
toward the " I A M ” .
In action it is concentration, and so the method o f con­
centration is noted in efforts o f Bringing God power to
the relief o f sickness and all physical inharmonies.
T h at there is more than laying on o f hands is self-evi­
dent, fo r in action there is a fixin g o f the body in tension
and muscle to carry into effect the power o f Spirit, and
this is in quivering fingers— and a pivoting o f eye— w ith
flushed cheeks and tense body. A ll evidences o f Concen­
tration in a physical attentiveness.
Concentration comes to the body and mind naturally
and because o f unselfish desire to have the Spirit come
aboard in healing. A nd this is more than "layin g on o f
hands” because there results a fixin g o f good feeling— and
a return of the waves o f health.
It confirm s the affirm ation o f G od’s power— being
present— uncovering vital physical practices— as an aid o f
transition from one to another.
Thus the necessity of finding and practicing principles
o f concentration.
These principles are alike to the statements and actions
o f Christ, a fulfillm ent o f power w ithout the approach
to power given.
Patanjali’s aphoraims are probably the most complete
of all instruction and powers— when the principle o f ap­
proach is attained.
I knew of the active principle of pivoting and o f m ak­
ing the body tense. N o w came the test o f an "exposition
of Concentration is about to be made” .
It is to be made by an affirm ative study o f acceptance
of the know n effect of the Spirit com ing aboard in heal­
ing and is a process o f m editative law to find principles
o f action to give outward results.
First it is an elimination o f desires, to find the " I A M ” .
Patanjali calls it the A U M . A gain it is fixin g in me
308 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
directions and belief— that is, Faith without works. Then
follow s body and m ind reflections, to the Aphorisms and
p u ttin g them into practice.
It is to get the exact principles by which knowledge is
attained and have discrim inating powers of analysis. It
is to know the e ffect o f sleep, m em ory and the hindering
m odifications these have upon the sleeping body.
It is in the exercises o f dispassion, to overcome desire.
Indeed it is a principle o f laying the body down— to take
up that other, o f im m ortality.
These practices are going over— the know activities of
the body— to acquire a direction o f Spirit as principles
com e fo rth in breathing, posture and meditations.
It is simple and natural, in form and is akin to the Si­
lent prayer, fo r it has the repeating o f form ula’s that are
self evident— and made so by practices that demonstrate
truth.
There is no w ay to measure the value o f meditative con­
centration and the silence o f its action, for it brings an­
other great principle into action— the eternal fight be­
tween the higher and low er self— as given in the immortal
treatise o f the B A G -A -V A D -G IT A .
In this the higher self at last trium phs over the desire
body, and trium phs by the Spirit com ing abroad. Again,
it is an inner pow er com ing abroad, and the " I A M ” do­
ing the w ork through the body expressing activity accord­
ing to law.
A gain the action o f the Spirit com ing abroad in treat­
ments or in prayer bring to objective notice another and
vital force in life and in treatm ents. It is the w ay the
Spirit makes one breathe— in doing the work.
A n d this is divided into the G reat breaths.
These are called the teachings o f Shiva, and known as
the T attvas. T h ey too, are an accum ulation o f aphorsims
fo r the guidance o f disciples. A lbeit they seem in no way
to approach them from the objective. A nd, so again,
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 309
the method is to take the aphorisms as truth, fix this truth
in the mind, and by the same process as before, go from
the mental to the Prophet— and from he to the Pilgrim —
to get a feeling o f the Spirit of God confirm ing a truth.
Thus the great Breaths o f the Shiva Gam a were trans­
lated into actions in giving the breaths o f healing.
These are four in num ber, and consist o f the H eating
Breath, the M otion Breath— the M oisture Breath, and the
Laughing Breath.
There are a great num ber o f m odifications but all go
into the m aking of a philosophy that fits into healing as
a direct method o f bringing the Spirit aboard.
Thus the heating breaths can be and is demonstrated
by heat transm itted from one person to another percep-
tably and according to the Concentration o f the user.
It can be strong enough to blister and soothing enough
to allay the most severe o f pains.
I have used it m any times in operations and w ith the
greatest degree o f success.
N o w comes a study of Silence. The prayers o f Silence
and what is meant by the "V oice o f Silence” , or the
"Soundless sound” — that m ay well be interpreted as the
voice o f the Spiritual sound.
From the very beginning o f m y discipleship, I had the
instruction to go into the Silent prayer, and this prayer
meant to go o ff a distance from others to commune w ith
the actions o f m y own life. Correcting the sins o f omis­
sion and commission and by putting "Som ething good
in the place of evil acts. G et up and pay m y debts. Then
ask believing” .
"T h e Father know ing w hat is wanted would grant it
unto m e.”
A ll of which stripped of m odification means, the Father
answers prayer through Silence—when Silence is free from
emotions and single—in righteous asking.
The "V oice o f the Silence” is a compendium o f ancient
I
310 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
m ystic lore— that has a series o f precepts— for the Dis­
ciple to prove b y the same process as here-to-fore given.
T h at is, start w ith me and talk to the Prophet in prayer
and have the Pilgrim carry conviction o f truth to the "I
A M ” and if true, there w ill be a feeling of elation that re­
layed ou tw ardly, dem onstrates itself in w ork.
T he book is o f great value to the Disciple, for it gives
the necessary laws o f being ready. Law s, all o f which are
proven b y the process given. A n d so here again, it is
going w ithin to find G od ; and then b y reversion of pro­
cess, bring the Silence aboard and then there will be no
objective hinderance to dem onstration.
It is not an argum ent, but is a state where pricks and
arrows o f emotions fail to penetrate. A nd so is a method
o f closing the w orld out— in becom ing conscious of God’s
presence.
I read again and again the chosen fragm ent of "The
book o f golden precepts” to fit the m ind and body to go
w ithin— w ithout let or hinderance.
Then when free, the God part comes forth in its mes­
sage o f m ercy.
The principle is proven objectively in doing. It is
dem onstrated in the w ork o f healing the sick, casting out
devils and in m aking the crooked places straight.
It is the first and last thing in doing. First by clicking
in, and second b y leaving peace, and so is an intimate of
love.
Love o f a religious nature is in addition to personal at­
tachm ent, a something alw ays, one w ith the patient, and
fans into flam e the hidden resources o f the Soul.
It is a messenger o f the Soul awakened to hear the voice
w ithin, that speaks in the silence o f Spiritual communion
and is indeed the "In effab le w ord” com ing forth in relief
o f sickness.
The Prophet records these things, and so the body re­
fines under them. The Pilgrim does, because he is a mes­
senger o f love.
THE PILGRIM. PROPHET AND ME 311
H e comes when emotions are stilled and there is peace
in heart and mind.
N o m atter the w ork, profession or vocation love never
stops for it is as the breath necessary to life.
These are the principles o f bringing the Spirit abroad.
There is to be nothing put in or left out, and so are to be
studied separately and collectively, to m ake a God pres­
ence.
N atu rally there are m any vocations but one spirit.
M any gifts but one spirit, and so the fundam entals o f
religious life is in always cultivating the Spirit and its
w ay o f com ing abroad. Then the vocation follow s natur­
ally w ith the assurance o f a Silent partner alw ays near
and w illing to serve in the problems o f life.
N atu rally, too, every vocation has essential studies o f
its ow n; and these studies are fitted to vocation, and also
the Spiritual.
It is com ing abroad that is essential in every day life,
fo r this purpose these laws o f direction are autom atic.
O f course, there are m any that feel there is a shorter w ay
and an easier road, but there is none.
The conception m ay be instant and the conversion in ­
stant, but the training to have a "Presence” is a long w ay
of preparation and o f unfoldm ent.
T akin g ideas w ithin, discussing and fixin g them w ith
the Prophet in the Silence, w ith love at the A ltar is m eet­
ing the Pilgrim . Then he, by becom ing one w ith the
" I A M ” asks believing and there is an answer returned.
The answer is in a feeling o f atoneness to God and the
process is in doing the w ork asked. This latter is always
here and the result o f mind enlightenm ent.
The process brings the added enlightenm ent o f no dis­
tance in the "K in gd om o f G od” . So messages are trans­
m itted through the Spirit over any distance. A nd these
all seem mental.
T h ey are, however, o f the Spirit, and the result o f still-
312 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
ing outer emotions and loosing ideas o f form .
This is a simple doctrine. So simple no charleton can
em ulate, or use legerdem ain. So effective no physical
rem edy is a substitute.
I have seen cancers disappear under its power. Con­
sum ption cured. A ll m anner o f sickness and all kinds of
pain, not as miracles but the natural w orking of the law.
It has no age lim it and no youth. H ow ever, the young
in body respond m ore naturally because free from guile.
T o the old the body interferes; and while still the spirit
is the same, the body looses youth and m aturity as it grows
old in age. T hen the Spirit shows more and age gives the
authority o f teaching the w ay.
Rem em ber every profession and vocation has to be
trained in its especial field o f w ork and so in healing the
Sick, A natom y, Physiology, Diagnosis, Symptomology,
and the other principles o f understanding disease should
have an outer m ental efficien cy to give the Spirit freedom.
The same thing holds w ith all other vocations. The
law yer, baker and candlestick m aker. A ll should have
training.
It is therefore meet and proper to have a vocation and
training in it. A som ething you feel you can do better
than anything else, and then "ask believing” , for the in­
dw elling spirit to come forth doing.
The simple asking m ust be after the body has been sub­
dued by prayer into a negative state o f receiving from the
" I A M ” .
This is the objective part, and the w ay prayer is an­
swered. For God helps those that prepare the body to
both receive and hear H is word while doing.
D oing is going at the things at hand, always believing,
alw ays hoping, always praying and alw ays doing.
For to every one is given one especial g ift better than
others. Let this g ift be sought earnestly, and then ask
believing; follow ing rule and there w ill alw ays be a Com ­
forter and Silent Partner to carry on.
I AM I
C hapter X X X I
A P R A C T IC E O F F U N D A M E N T A L P R IN C IP L E S
O F D IS C IP L IN E S B R IN G S R E S U L T S
The " I A M ” is the living God principle w ithin every
one. T o know it, is in the practice o f Suggestion in an
affirm ative m antra that based upon truth gives realiza­
tion.
It is after the realization of the " I A M ” , the other prin­
ciples grow into consciousness. T h ey start in affirm ative
suggestion and end, as does the " I A M ” , in realization.
T h at is, the factors o f know ing God, o f serving Elim ,
and being w ith H im always, begins w ith a fixed belief of
a truth, not at the beginning realized.
Realization comes after the practices o f discipline o f
body, m ind and Soul.
T h ey bring consciousness; and then the effect o f know ­
ing w ithin, the personalities o f the " I A M ” w ithout, as
living associates o f the me.
Discipline is to free the body from the desire state,
(wherein emotions o f the flesh run rio t), to a divine
state wherein devotion to the supreme Cause super­
sedes desire in a love principle o f hearing and doing the
word o f God.
This is the "livin g stream o f w ater” ; the drinking o f
which quenches thirst o f the emotional and desires, turns
them into natural sequences in law.
Thus Love’s w ay conquers the flesh and the desires of
egotistic suprem acy by putting something o f greater good,
in its place.
[313]
314 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
The som ething greater, is love w ithout guile. It comes
fo rth through the Pilgrim and Prophet and is practiced by
the latter upon the body desires b y constantly talking to
the higher self about them , and resolving to control them.
Resolve and prayer being the specific acts of discipline
to control body impulse. T he process is an accumulation
o f acts overcom ing self evident mistakes that are cor­
rected w ithin, before there is an outer result.
It is simple, this resolve, and in action is the one recom­
mended b y C hrist in getting up from prayer to "Pay
debts” .
It is L o ve’s w ay o f cleaning the slate, and of confiding
in the inner consciousness to do. This, o f course, is the
simple principle o f talking to oneself, about the conscious­
ness o f G od to do and control.
H e can do and so all people going to H im must recog­
nize this fact. Recognize and follow . The Prophet gets
all problems o f all men individually, and according to each
solves them, by bringing all to the A ltar o f prayer.
The lack o f prayer and the lack o f consciousness ac­
counts fo r the m any failures. For really there are no fail­
ures in the K ingdom o f God.
N o failures in the Pilgrim o f H im .
N o failures in the Prophet’s devotion. But is in the
ego, thinking itself greater than D eity, and the ever­
present " I A M ” , that is alw ays calling fo r righteous un­
derstanding.
H ow ever, the power w ithin is alw ays the same, and
alike to all, so all have the possibility o f going to God in
love and in prayer.
Prayers fo r the relief o f pricks and arrows o f the body
are alw ays the same; fo r the answer is love’s w ay. A way
o f non-resistance, a w ay o f laying the body dow n; a way
o f not feeling the defeats o f the ego; a w ay o f not hear­
ing, seeing or conveying evil.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 315
A w ay o f silence and o f m editation instantly entered
into when tem ptation appears.
A w ay o f putting love to w ork when fear bothers, and
going tow ard fear. A w ay o f constant training to master
the evils o f the flesh.
M ost o f the flesh attitudes are natural, norm al and
law, so the individual accepts them as a part o f body resi­
dence and life, believing the body m ust carry on and that
its norm al functions are alw ays good, because m an is
that w ay. It is tendencies that are excesses in themselves
and called sins, the Soul is constantly w arrin g against.
A nd these have a rem edy by being taken into the silence
o f prayer and laid upon the A ltar as conditions or intensi­
ties that m ake the flesh weak.
Then the Prophet calls, and at the A ltar, surrenders to
the Pilgrim , and he to the " I A M ” w ith the return o f
power that abates and at last cures the unrighteous em o­
tions o f the flesh.
These tendencies and emotions belong to desire uncon­
trolled, and are all based upon the five great cardinal sins
o f m urder, lying, stealing, covetousness and im m orality.
A ll universal feelings w ithin the body o f all, and so are
universal enemies o f the Soul wishing freedom o f the flesh
and association w ith God.
N atu rally sins belong to all the w orld and to all m an­
kind. For it is as if every one has lined up w ith the w eak­
nesses of the flesh by adhering by some code o f living. It
is also natural, that all men have sought a w ay o f free­
dom. Some through one method, and others by another.
A lw ays in a form o f forgiveness. A nd this means a m eth­
od by which the supplicant can approach the A ltar to
receive.
This method is pragm atic, w ith one person having a
power, and another the recipient. So there m ust be
evolved a scientific method o f "Forgiveness o f Sins” . This
is found in all M aster’s w riting, w ithout direction.
316 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
C h rist said, "U p o n this rock I build M y church”—
"w hose sins you forgive on earth they shall be forgiven in
heaven and whose sins you bind on earth, shall be bound
also in heaven” . N o w this has not the necessary formula
o f being prepared, and so most o f the Christian world
withholds or makes it a privilege from another body simi­
lar in em otions to the one asking.
H ow ever there is in the assertion, something of moment,
fo r it gives an outer evidence o f that which is within, and
brings back again the pow er o f the " I A M ” to cleanse the
body b y m antra and deed— "to ask believing, and have an
answer returned” .
A skin g is the p roof o f prayer. A nd answering is the
"Presence” com ing abroad in doing. It is the "H oly of
H o ly tim es” in each, that indicates an approach to God
w ith all inner problem s and then having an answer.
Yes, prayers are answered. Answ ered now, and an­
swered so that every petitioner knows. Answered con­
clusively.
The answer is w hat makes others seeking, want to know,
and that is the w ay Disciples come.
T h ey come believing, or o f being convinced of some
great happening, that is beyond physical understanding.
For the most part this is purely personal as was the case
o f N icodem us, but some w ant to m ake it a plan of life
w ork.
There is no great desire to follow in the sense of the
tw elve Disciples, going from place to place, but rather a
wish to have something added to that which is possessed,
that there m ay follow health, happiness or prosperity.
One or all, there is a desire fo r fu lfillm en t o f ambition to
know .
So some come to know the road to success, others to
happiness, and the great num ber w h y they individually
can not be successful.
The answer to all o f them is according to the Prophet,
—
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 317
a lack o f fitness in doing that which appealed.
It is a lamentable fact that most men feel the ordinary
every day w ork does not need attention to detail. Does
not need the know how, and never needs a feeling o f ela­
tion as if finding something new and glorious.
So here are the follow ing rules for outw ard success.
Be w illing to w ork, and w ork at any kind o f job.
F ix thought and action so that it w ill be anticipatory,
pleasing and listening.
G et the other fellow ’s view and see the good accom ­
plished, w ithout undue notice o f it. This means to be
affable, pleasing and confident. Bu t is also physical and
therefore has the one great draw back o f all m aterial
things, for it has an equal and opposite vibration. It is
personal and the object personal sees the com mon objec­
tion o f H ard times, no w ork and the feeling that other
people are out o f a job and therefore there is a lack abun­
dance.
This condition would be an absolute answer to hard
times and lack o f w ork if left upon the plane o f labor.
Labor, however, is not what God in infinite m ercy
means. H e gives a vision of a job, a vision o f w ork, and a
vision o f plenty. A universal force that can be made per­
sonal by the right approach to the throne o f grace. For
w ith God all is abundance.
A nd as all things are abundant, all law is happy, and the
natural condition o f the race is to grow in law and grace
o f health.
A lw ays it is to grow , fru it, mature, rest and then
pass on.
The passing is always something that lives and is su­
perior to the m aterial, or even the mind. A nd is that
something the successful man turns to, to have that other
and greater power of abundance.
So abundance is "asking believing” o f the Producer,
the tradesman, the m erchant or m anufacturer. N o, not
318 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
to any o f those that live upon the plane o f matter, but
to that other and greater thing that gives o f matter its
life and fertility.
It should be know n that every thing of matter is in
a constant change even as the race is changing. And this
is "th e life w ave” .
It is contacted in breathing and is in everything.
It gives o f its substance as the individual learns the laws
o f it. So it is but natural to have found a beaten path to
the w ithin, where all is abundance and also all is life.
O thers ask, "Is it true asking becomes paramount?”
A skin g and receiving help from the limitless help. Yes,
it is true.
It is the E U R E K A o f the G reek and is shouted to the
w orld. A Plan and w ay to ask believing, and to have all
that is asked returned and heaping over.
O f course it is more than vocation or profession, for it
is another series o f thought understanding, that is a train­
ing from where the objective leaves o ff, going within to
save the plus to hum an effo rt.
It is to cultivate inner conscience. T o have resolve be­
fore prayer. T o clean up and know offenses. T o medi­
tate upon the principle and pow er o f God, and to ask be­
lieving.
It is the same asking that has been used in healing the
sick. The same asking o f m inistry. O nly now the vision
o f it, reaches to all m ankind. Saying, " I A M ” , and have
a job fo r you, come prepare the w ay and go to work.
A ll ye who hear, come the job is waiting.
And as yon believe with Faith before work, and faith
in doing, and it shall always be yours.
A re you listening, do you hear? Com e and the way
w ill be taught, so that even a child w ill know.
I have taught the footsore and w eary, to those who had
jobs, and those who had not. I have told them o f the
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 319
simple methods o f prayer and the w ay to talk to God to
have a job.
N o one need to be w ithout w ork, save those who w ill
not listen, or when listening, disbelieve.
Jobs are not to one person or place save in the sense
they are personal. The cru x is in keeping out desire,
while adhering to love and law. A sk fo r ability to do and
discernment how to do, as well as the affirm ative principle
o f doing.
Bring the conviction outw ard so that the body w ill go
asking o f the objective w orld the same as the Prophet has
carried you within where the Pilgrim being alone w ith
the " I A M ” has given that confidence that dispels fear, as
the sun dispels dew.
So hearing m any come. Some fo r healing, some for
happiness and some fo r prosperity. God being good, gives
to all what they deserve and as they prepare themselves to
receive.
A ll have to believe, follow and obey practices.
A ll have to accept the rules o f prayer and to put the
practice into daily action.
A ll have to try healing by "fa ith w ithout w orks” , and
w ith w ork by affirm ation, laying on hands and suggest­
ing.
A ll have to accept this as true and take the suggestions
in to prayer periods until they click as a feeling o f truth.
A ll have to study the books o f devotion until the laws
therein become fixed as mental attributes.
A ll have to make a diligent search for the " I A M ” , and
believe, in doing daily tasks w ith the body in order to
make it obedient.
A ll have to practice breath exercises, concentration ex­
ercises, and posture exercises, until these become fixed
habits.
A ll should study according to personal gifts: that is,
according to fitness, or vocation. Rem em bering the
320 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
Spirit is to reclaim the Soul b y putting fitness into body
w ork.
A ll should rem em ber the fo u r principles leading to God
consciousness are Love, Prayer, Fasting, and Service. And
the m ethod o f going to G od is alw ays from without in,
and the result is a feeling o f the "S p irit is upon me” .
These principles are not at first apparent so the re­
quirem ents o f follow and obey is to put the body in nega­
tion to a som ething, that later w ill come abroad.
A ll m ust know the difference between the desires of
the body and the revelation o f the Soul. Both are love,
but one is desire, and possessive, and the other giving and
abstract.
So each, according to station, come to study and know
the w ay to the K ingdom o f H eaven. Some to heal, but
fo r the most p art to know and feel the something that
gives an assurance here am ong men " o f the Kingdom of
H eaven being present w ith every one entering into it” .
Bonnie came thus. She wanted to know the way to
God, because o f m uch su fferin g here.
She w anted to heal and also to teach. She started the
physical w ay, b y taking notes and ended in the meditative
that gave her peace.
A great num ber were alike Bonnie w anting, but few
had her ability to stay.
She was one o f the successful house disciples.
Edith came from sickness and wanted to heal. She was
equipped w ith anatom ical and physiological training and
progressed fo r a time. Egotism at last compelled her to
leave.
G race came and became a devout student.
The first that really found com fort and realization in
doing. She is to this day a teacher and healer.
K ate came w ith G race, and became a devout disciple
finding the principles o f going to God d ifficu lt because
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 321
she said there never seemed to be a feeling o f Seeing.
I often repeated the aphorism, "Y o u must be born
again,” for no one can see beyond its perspective.
Legare came and studied. She became a devout student
but had a pride, that was hard to surm ount, and this hin­
dered her in going on, though later she came to die in the
work.
E m ily came and worked. She found it hard to separate
the body from the Soul o f things, and so had her battle in
wants. These she has m et and is continuing to carry on.
Frank came fo r business relief and got it. Then as so
m any do, lost interest in discipleship, saying some time he
would take it up for good.
Frank had some really rem arkable helps in business.
John came and began study. H e kept at it, always
struggling w ith an obstreperous spirit. Even to this day
he has that feeling o f others not know ing or doing.
Ju st a few weeks ago he wrote that he could not get a
job, because the plant was down. I told him o f the " I
A M ” as the place to get a job.
H e wrote a criticizing letter saying, "T h e 'I A M ’ was
not w orking, when everybody was out o f a job.” H e got
a job the next day for the "I AM” does work.
The " I A M ” did that without the immediate help o f
John. It has done so in m y experience hundreds o f times,
because of previous study, that in negation brings the
body into subjection.
It is not an affirm ation, but a fixed faith in the "Pres­
ence” . Then the active presence comes into action after
a night o f rest that started "in the illusions o f the body
not being able to do anything” . Then an infinite urge
going forth brings the job. A nd that is the law in Joh n ’s
case, and in thousands o f others.
N o w remember, this is not affirm ation, but the result
of m antra that fixes in the objective life the power o f
God being within, and the w ay to H im as a first part, is
322 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
a m igh ty proceeding, to talk m atter over with the
Prophet, until there is an assurance in the mind, and a
feeling in the body, o f abundance. Then to take this
feeling to the A lta r, and petition the " I A M ” through the
Pilgrim o f a w an t, to live abundantly.
T he Pilgrim w ill fix the idea, and then will be that
som ething that flo w in g outw ard as revelation makes ask­
ing believing the same as receiving. A nd this, whether
objective consciousness know s it or not, is law.
Joh n getting a job, even while denying the power, is an
illustration. H e is alike to thousands who do not know.
A lm ost all the woes o f m ankind are attributable to igno­
rance that results in strife, desire, lying, stealing, coveting,
and im m orality.
Its is a shift o f the great equation from the God to the
m ortal side; and great is the m isery amongst all men.
Sh ift back b y resolve, love and follow ing the rules of
prayer and there w ill be the opposite o f doubt— in love,
patience, faith, confidence, friendliness and good will.
A ll " I A M ” qualities because o f everlasting principles.
T o fix these principles is to blank out the opposite by
talking them over w ith the Prophet before prayer, and to
repeat until the body side ceases to be in command of
"th e life w ave” .
It is a simple series o f practices o f substitution, and of
p u ttin g som ething good in the place o f evil. However,
it is also a continuous habit, fo r that is the only way to
control the body and have it amendable to "A sking be­
lieving” .
N o w w ith these fundam entals go forw ard, the power
w ithin is a test given, in asking. It is an outer test always,
and does give health, happiness, and prosperity.
I AM I
C hapter X X X II
P R A C T IC E IN W O R K R E V E A L S T H E H ID D E N
P E R S O N A L IT IE S A S F R IE N D S
There is always the same feeling and attitude o f mind
when healing as there is in entering into the subconscious.
The processes are states o f being, the result o f contem ­
plating, pondering, and m editation, giving a change as
if leaving, and is transition and a change o f feeling that
comes w ithout anxiety. In that it is different from scare
or fear, and an objective transition to know what is al­
ways asked, "W h y your stillness and blankness?”
It comes by a wish to know w hy Masters did heal, cast
out devils, and do marvelous works.
W hy and by what methods they prepared themselves.
W hat made Buddha sit seven years under the Bodhi
tree, Christ six weeks in the wilderness, and Paul twelve
years after his vision on the road to Damascus, before
com ing forth to preach.
There m ust be a reason for these practices and so the
mind has to translate itself into their im aginary selves
to get at the truth. For the truth is not given in the acts,
but is indicated in what followed.
Each and every one changes under this fasting and pon­
dering restraint. Changes into a power and authority
from within to give the world a new philosophy; and yet
only new in interpreting the old in a better w ay.
M y experience o f transition into a feeling o f listening,
w aiting brought the consciousness o f being alone as a
void in mental effo rt, I afterw ards called it "brain blank­
ing” for out o f which came the " I A M ” .
[323]
324 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
T he " I A M ” gave the conscious urge to demonstrate in
w ork. It seemed to me a feeling alike to calling disciples
and takin g them up into the m ountain to be taught. It
is the feeling o f the Spirit being upon me.
Betw een times this spiritual awakening is to be remem­
bered as a beaten path to pow er and peace. W ith a con­
sum ing desire to change from objective to an inner con­
sciousness.
It is the same change I noticed in patients when they
turned tow ard health. The same thing that gave assur­
ance to do. It is a change from the poverty of thought
to abundance and is that som ething always back of doing.
M any have asked, "H o w do you do these things? What
makes me get w ell?”
I kn ow it is transition o f the m ental and objective to
the " I A M ” .
I can say this to all asking, yet until the form ula herein
given is follow ed, there cannot be an understanding. The
change is com plete from outer acts to an inner know.
N a tu ra lly it is in first seeking the Kingdom of heaven
but to all m en this is a devious assertion, so in fact it is a
voiding principle o f the outer thought, caused by ponder­
ing and m editating upon the inner consciousness.
Surely all can do that, fo r it is just being still and pon­
dering.
A ll do it, but now it is pondering w ith an object. And
that object is not physical or form , but power and the feel­
ing o f pow er that naturally puts to test its efficiency in
healing the sick.
It puts the test to a feeling o f abundance, and so things
done are better.
It puts to test law , and so law is exem plified, mostly in
every day affairs.
It is a living principle of an inner power that says that
all that is needed shall be mine.
Testing conscience to a feeling o f confidence is in con-
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 325
stantly relying upon the hidden self for com fort and that
is the method all becomes a conscious personality— all
who use the method in daily problems.
It is a talking and reasoning self that seem to have an
answer to all m oot questions, but fades when the indi­
vidual becomes objective?
Thus it is the test o f silence to m aintain an individual
relationship o f distinct personality and to follow inner
consciousness.
In all health dealing principles, in helps to others, and
in love’s w ay, this power is upperm ost and sees an answer
in doing. So really it is a personality the same as the body
is one. It is different from the body because w ith it, there
is no clinging to desire. Being free, it is not d ifficu lt to
assume it a real somebody— talked to that gives relief in
doing.
O f course this is a sem i-spiritual force and leads to a
feeling of another and better state, where all things are
know n, and then there is the beaten path to subconscious
states.
In the subconscious states there is a further going aw ay
from the objective and the entering into it, is through
sleep.
T h at is, there is a negation in w hich the objective sur­
renders consciousness to the life coil o f understanding,
and know ing, becomes the result o f previous love and re­
solve. A like to that entering into prayer.
It is the silent time o f sleep or trance that has w ith it
the power to go from the body and without hindrance
find and know what the body and mental life desire. Thus
the body in awakening has a solution fo r the problems
o f life not before known.
I have tested this principle, and know its worth. It has
been the power behind what I know of the occult. It has
w ritten m y books, all of them, and has answered the moot
questions o f everyday ordinary living.
326 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
A ll tests com e back to the objective conscious and have
an e ffe c t upon the m ental, as well as body life. The most
notable is that life or energy goes out in strong semi-spirit­
ual efforts.
E ffo rts where there is concentration, breath and pos­
ture, w ith trem bling fingers and pivoting eye, takes much
o f the body heat, and so people using universally have a
let dow n, in e ffe c t very tiring
I have used this force in fever, when there was no ener­
gy, after the fever had been controlled.
In cancer, virtue goes out, and the body is exhausted.
In burns, when there was left a queer swimming of the
head, but the burn heals.
In fa ct every e ffo rt has a reflex upon the body in tired­
ness.
E v e ry e ffo rt save those in w hich the body and Soul
separated. The tiredness was alw ays before these, and the
fullness o f life afterw ards.
The com plete pow er o f separation is one o f supreme
desire in devotion that starts at the very beginning, or did
w ith me, and is a partial separation before the complete
one.
I mean, b y this statem ent, that there are progressive
states in going into the separating o f body from Soul.
There is the cord o f "th e life w ave” that connects the
sleeping body and the recording o f the Plastic brain, but
aside from this, no m em ory or consciousness from the
m ind or body is recorded.
The separation m ay be a few seconds or m any hours.
The latter depends upon body control and is usually given
from a few seconds to three days.
T he latter being the lim it save fo r such extraordinary
Masters as Christ who stayed w ith H is disciples after cru­
cifixion to the ascent on M ount Sinai. H ow ever, this was
when H is body was laid down.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 327
M y own experiences have been from a few moments to
a few hours; albeit, it was always long enough.
These states o f transition are used to bring from the
God side o f the ledger a solution to problems that have
assumed proportions beyond the mental, moot question
and the laws o f them.
T h ey are those belonging to norm al happiness. O f
course the body has happiness and is happy when free
from pain, sickness and poverty. Bu t what makes the
change from norm al happiness to the grouches every one
has? These ask believing and find from this source happi­
ness is harm ony to law and that from the consciousness
o f the " I A M ” within.
Then when unhappiness comes to the outer body all
that is required is to be silent and alone and ask believing.
A smile o f contentm ent is the answer.
N orm ally, all people are happy and contented in the
vocation from which is derived a living, when there is a
stop from w ork, and no one knows w hy— there is fear and
poverty com ing. It is a fear o f "things not yet com e.”
The rem edy is to be silent and alone while sinking into
prayer to ask believing. A nd as faith is so shall it be.
The same thing is in all walks o f life, no m atter the vo ­
cation or field. If norm ally all are doing very well and
then without w arning or cause, the source o f supply is
cut o ff, followed by a lack o f health, poverty and unhap­
piness, three specters o f fear. The rem edy is going into
the Silence and there finding the great C om forter, that
w ill bring back from the universal that something giving
peace and employment.
It is a change of alignm ent and transition from the ani­
mal man, from the mental man, to that o f the Soul being,
whose object is to have the body ask believing.
It takes practice and m uch experience to "click in” to
this m ighty force.
It is to repeat and repeat, believing.
328 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
N o t alw ays w ill there be an answer, and some times the
tim e allottm ent is long, but it is and that is the great thing
in all the effo rts made.
It has w orked fo r me. H as worked in teaching and
preaching a new interpretation to laws old in theory but of
w hich it is said "th e y w ill not w ork now ” .
The principle o f prayer in "click in g in” has been given
as the m ethod throughout. It is that state in which some
unkn ow n force, unknow n to outer observance, takes pos­
session, and there is a feeling o f confidence and God.
A t first it is not so easy and can be assumed without
pow er, but is and so sickness responds to untried skill
and later other things o f m om ent comes to pass. The
grow th is progressive, and alw ays corrects when the indi­
vidual recognizes mistakes and backs up.
E v ery one has these mistakes in feeling, but to the dis­
ciple they soon show themselves as not genuine, and then
the process o f prayer is to correct the feeling.
A t no tim e is there seeing or the consciousness of seeing
in any physical w ay.
A n d at no tim e is there any outw ard picture or miracu­
lous change in feeling.
It is all a rote going from one procedure to another,
until there is an accom plishm ent in the body and mental
life o f that w hich is sought.
The Disciples therefore do not make o f the spiritual a
physical expression. It is a silent transition.
A silent breathing, and a silent concentration.
So also is the laying on o f hands both natural and effec­
tive, w ithout show or strain.
W hile all are in training the effo rts are lost in practice
until m an can be as those contacted w ith nothing o f show.
It is love’s w ay in the beginning and the other principles
follow naturally. A ll o f w hich means that God manifests
in w ork and not in noise.
Prayer there is, but it is not words but silent.
Thus the m ind is trained, but does not seem to think.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 329
Especially o f the opinions o f others, yet is always con­
siderate.
B y the "presence o f prayer” conditions sinks in and
from w ithin comes the clicking or change in transition
from the objective to a know ing that is in proportion to
development.
There are m any objectives to overcom e in this simple
process o f sinking in. For it really means dropping rea­
soning to find through revelation the truth. Then the
objective takes up this added truth and proceeds according
to plans o f treatm ent or analysis.
Sometimes the habit becomes so natural the individual
leaves the beaten trail to conclude w ithout sinking into
subconnection. Then he offers belief to the w orld o f
habit and not the law and w ay.
Y et the method o f know ing sickness is in the simple
prayer o f silence, o f quietude and revelation, to come
abroad in eye pivoting, concentration— and in finger v i­
bration, that is always objective; though in a greater sense
subjective for it is w orking under the urge of the hidden
self.
The study becomes the "W o rd ” because it is the force
of outer doing. A n yw ay it is a distinct feeling o f living
upon the Soul side, in all things, even to the end.
It is indeed a something that cannot be told, but w ith
direction can be experienced, and then becomes the master
power on w ork, in curing, solving problems fo r others,
and in giving that inner something o f health, happiness,
and prosperity.
The Prophet leads to these practices fo r he constantly
is the associate o f every one.
H e whispers advice and talks the kind o f thought the
body most needs for it is advice w ithout fau lt finding. It
shows the untrue by seeing eyes and so the body is always
in confidential relation to it.
It so fixes experience the mind also knows there is a
power beyond and as practice goes on to this realization
330 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
there are indications in sleep o f it solving problems, as if
there had been a visitor who knew . (This is the reason for
so m an y sleeping upon d ifficu lt problems.) It is the way
o f getting in touch w ith the Infinite.
This p art also comes nearer and nearer to realization as
faith is placed upon it.
T he Sleeps also change, and after a time there is a
hypnosis o f outer things even in w aking moments that in­
dicate a visit o f the Pilgrim to the Soul realm.
T hus is given inspiration about things o f moment and
a direction, as if a light shining to show the way.
The progress goes on, until there is the complete separa­
tion, given in chapters before, and the w ay to touch the
Infinite. N o t only that but to bring back and know the
laws beyond the border o f the grave.
A m on g the greatest o f these are the three personalities
that fit in and shape destiny to the yonder.
M uch is said about physical separation into Father, Son
and H o ly Ghost. A ll illusions from the body, and all true
from the spirit.
A n d all m oreover developed in the Silence o f prayer.
So as m ankind go into prayer. The first contact is a
feeling o f bringing the body to rest and attention. The
second part is m editated upon to find if possible the transi­
tion entered to m ake "M ig h ty w orks” possible.
E veryb od y believes in "m igh ty w orks” and in a neces­
sary control o f the body. So prayer is entered with the
Prophet speaking.
"N o w we are about to concentrate .upon the 'ineffable
w ord’. T he som ething beyond our object, and hear an
urge saying, 'L a y your burdens upon the A ltar, and we
w ill bring you a message o f peace’.”
W e become silent and there is something stilling im­
pulses and peace com ing. T h at something is the Son.
A fte r a time, or in m any years, these reveries in which
peace alw ays comes as a surety, there is another visitor.
W ho leads, as if one had entered their Father’s house where
331
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
all is plenty and abundance from the very beginning.
This is an exalted feeling o f an all consciousness within.
Then is the time, soon or long, when the "Father enters” .
A nd "th e Father, H e doeth the w orks.”
N o w we are leaving the prayer periods.
W e have taken the Prophet there, and we have through
him gained an assurance o f the other tw o great forces.
Forces not physical but nevertheless o f great moment. For
now is given the privilege of a methodical path o f going to
the "K in gdom o f H eaven” .
But we need something to guide our w earying and de­
sirous footsteps out o f tem ptation, and so we are asking
who? W hen at once the consciousness comes he is m y
Prophet, that is the Comforter. The master power that
has been shaping character all the years and always point­
ing the w ay.
The Prophet opens the door o f consciousness to me
when some one is calling for help.
H e clears the w ay in vision to them when I desire to
adjust matters. O r it is better and truer to say the P il­
grim or Father in me does.
A n y w ay there is a freed space— infinitism al— that
gives entrance into another’s life in regard to the thing
needed.
The w ork is accomplished and, the body, m ay be a little
tired, but not otherwise affected.
I have thousands o f these visitations and all natural, not
because o f me, but because the invisible current o f the
life wave set up to prove for m yself the greatest single
joy o f man. T h at o f know ing God.
The w ay and the law begins w ith love and ends in
love.
The laws o f doing are progressive and belong to the
silent prayers, o f all people who can by them gain and
have the same powers that have been mine for over fifty
years.
A ll is love.
I AM I
C h a pter X X X I I I
T H E P IL G R IM , P R O P H E T A N D M E W A LK
T O G E T H E R IN T H E H A R M O N Y O F LO VE
W e three have been together in love’s way.
Love is the greatest thing on earth and amongst meri­
no m atter the plane. It is G od ’s g ift to mankind to take
the race out o f darkness into light.
" I love you, and love you, alw ays in the Master’s power.
It is experienced in me by the Prophet who gets the mes­
sage through the Pilgrim .
The m ore I use these tw o personalities the more I know
and understand m y inheritance from God working in me
to do a like good to all m ankind. It has given me my
conscience and an urge to give o f a "blessed inheritance to
all m ankind” .
It has given conscience, free from bigotry and tradition.
For conscience is a master pow er o f m oral direction, with
a feeling beyond is H eaven. H eaven that m ay be now.
It sees better living conditions and has an abiding Faith
o f Soul association. A som ething that makes the Prophet
and Pilgrim a part o f everyday life arrived at through
prayer.
It is an association o f consecration to the " I A M ” and
o f course is the practice so often mentioned to realize
and know the " I A M ” . It makes all men the children of
G od and so all men are traveling the self same road to have
H eaven upon earth.
H eaven by teaching a w ay out o f desire into states of
peace.
H eaven is alw ays the same, whether upon earth or
[332]
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 333
above, it is a state of happiness, peace and good w ill. It
is within the reach o f every one and all at some time sense
it as a power present. So to go to heaven is to go to peace.
A n understanding peace to give o f the joy o f everlasting
life in the here and now.
It is a mental attitude o f good w ill, that Christ p rac­
ticed. H is disciples practiced. A ll holy people have p rac­
ticed, and so can everybody.
Its laws are given in the Beatitudes.
From H eaven upon earth and amongst men, it goes on
to other states o f being. The Prophet gives this state to
the mind and body. The Pilgrim gives to the Prophet,
and the " I A M ” to the Pilgrim . It is all a progressive
state getting aw ay from the emotional life, into a more
and more abstract one.
Thus the sense perceptions carry one to the Prophet to
muse and meditate upon the right o f things. This m edi­
tation leads to prayer and the Pilgrim . A nd then the Pil­
grim gives the separateness o f body and mind, from the
Soul, that gives a fu ll realization of the " I A M ” being a
master power and heaven w ithout sense m odification being
— Peace to all men.
It is ecstasy or bliss spoken o f by all devotees and is alike
to happiness here, only free from the sorrows that are a
part o f a decaying body.
Specifically, Soul freedom is gaining experience closer
to God, and so refines itself, for a body to respond to cu l­
ture.
Soul freedom is that time o f awakening where the Soul
separates from the body sensuousness through the principle
o f trance which is a deep sleep or complete body relaxa­
tion.
N atu rally this part follows long control and discipline
o f body function in the right and w rong o f things.
A ll have the sleep principle naturally. It is the result
o f tiredness, and so tiredness is given by Patanjali, as one
334 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
o f the means o f getting free from the body. I know it has
been m y experience and especially at the beginning.
It can be developed into an instant negation that clicks
and so can be any tim e when there is need o f Soul, or the
freedom o f right in em ergency.
T he principle gives freedom from desire and a feeling
o f atoneness to the "K n o w e r,” that is, a freedom having
no m odifications. " I t is therefore unmoved by works
o f trouble, fru its o f w orks, or desires” .
Indeed has le ft the body resting.
M y Pilgrim has been singing this song o f freedom for a
long tim e. E ven to that time when the body visited
through the Soul those who had passed on and who were
gaining strength and freedom to again come to earth as
children o f God.
For from that time the know ledge o f gaining freedom
fro m body desires became a fastened principle of going
o ff a distance to pray.
H e became active in the sleeps o f the body leading to
separateness and the negations that gave the same result.
So the tim e o f previous fear where the body and mind lost
m om entary consciousness became a black mist the going
through o f w hich was alike to com ing and going to be re­
membered in freedom .
T he Pilgrim became more fam iliar as a state of mind
when the body was under discipline. The Prophet made
discipline possible. So all control being a preliminary to
healing w ith the Pilgrim com ing though when there was
non-resistance there follow ed a practice o f negation to
understand changes in thought.
These changes are the m ental acts o f clicking into and
out o f conditions, and are alw ays instant. So in teaching
there was this infinitim al change o f thought to know and
understand.
M ost students had not noticed changes, and as usual
thought o f something noticeable. T h ey all knew people
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 335
changed their minds about things, and almost alw ays in­
stantly. T h ey knew o f both men and wom en having in­
stant changes o f mind affectin g their emotions, but did
not perceive this same reflex m ight be the very center o f
mental power to give the Prophet or Pilgrim ingress and
egress to the body, in healing and cleansing.
Students often stopped here, for they said: "T here was
no change by just saying so” . Forgetting the change had
to be an act o f doing. A resolve to lay down objective
thought and enter the subjective. T h at is, the contem pla­
tive and meditative.
H ere again was the objection of not being able to do
so at w ill, or fo r any fixed time. The answer to this is in
anticipation and intent.
G et busy at the mom ent w ith doing and the thought
w ill be a servant. Indeed this is the fixin g principle o f
the "Silent Prayer” .
It starts w ith love and resolve and then follow s contem ­
plation and meditation w ith an asking that is continuous
in thought because it is anticipatory.
Charlie said: I can imagine these things, but that does
not give a truth.
N ora said: T h at she often lapsed into absentmindedness
and that m ay be the same as blanking, but she got nothing
save being criticized as not conscious o f things around.
She said she never heard any one speak o f the Pilgrim or
Prophet as being personal.
W ill said: It looked to him like I had especial power of
seeing, and that must be what the Spiritualists call clair­
voyant mediumship, or talking to spirits.
Bu t most concluded it was self talk designed to give
confidence in w ork.
O f course the exercises were self evident and did give
an elation. The Breaths did that, and the unison o f them
did give liftin g power?
336 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
(W e lifted one another by holding the breath and when
all lifted w ith their fingers held against the body was in­
stant. This was repeatedly practiced.)
So to overcom e fear and doubt, I began to practice sug­
gestive laws and hypnotism as a demonstration of Clicking
in, and then had results in "believing” .
For the practical part o f instruction is to develop con­
science o f the change and a w ay o f instantly feeling.
T o know the Prophet is a higher self that all can know
by practice is to have him approached as one approaches
a friend to talk things over in w hich there is no fooling,
but a just test in w hich there is evidence in doing.
T he evidence w ill be progressive in demonstrative heal­
ing. It is a developm ent o f law .
T alkin g to the Prophet becomes a habit and when per­
sisted in refines the features, as culture always does. Only
in the case o f self-talking there enters into the talk solving
o f vexin g problem s and therefore gives a consciousness of
right doing.
So it is natural fo r abstraction to give a clearness of skin
and a freedom o f w rinkles upon the forehead, both a part
o f ordinary age life. It is thus H o ly people are designated
as you th fu l.
The Prophet w ith the aid o f the Pilgrim does that and
m an responds in kindliness and freedom from wrinkles.
It is evident in another and greater w ay fo r it gives inner
confidence and freedom from haphazard movements. It
is a process o f m editative sureness as one goes closer and
closer to G od. G od w ithin who w ill use the body to do
H is w ill.
So talking to the Prophet and m editating is the beaten
pathw ay to overcom e the tem ptations o f the flesh and
surely is the w ay to change equations from the earth and
flesh to the solid foundation o f everlasting life.
It is a slow and gradual change, for it is a refinement
of the elements of the body to meet those of Spirit. Yet,
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 337
when the Inner conscience breaks through is instant, and
one wonders whether it has not been always, as a hidden
urge that made the individual go right.
For the Prophet and Pilgrim are always hidden, yet al­
ways Present.
T h ey come abroad by w ill of intent and because m an
always needs a Com forter.
T h ey come in trial and in sorrow. T h ey can come and
do come when the mind and body are trained. Thus this
change of equation is in reality getting in contact w ith the
H igher self and talking things over. A nd then in a m edi­
tative mood contacts the Pilgrim .
In follow ing this plan there is unfolded the distinctions
in thought that so confound the Student.
It is in parlance o f the people getting ready to do some­
thing else or as Christ gave it, "p u ttin g good in the place
o f evil” . Indeed it is so fixin g the principles o f Silence
that it w ill always start w ith resolve, and then Love.
Thus is the change meant b y clicking in; and can be
practiced by any one and made a habit through devotion.
The Prophet is always present as a conversationist, and
so the companionship is fixed for individual use. It starts
in understanding fundam entals o f right and w rong and
follow ing precepts and examples o f right.
Though this is conscience— and so the going further—
is but putting something good in the place o f evil in a
straightforw ard e ffo rt to get the best out o f life. R eally
it is a scientific hunt for health, happiness and pros­
perity.
M attie came because she was lacking in one or more o f
these. She came to straighten out the tangled web o f her
life. She wanted to have the joys o f life and being am bi­
tious asked for advance in her chosen field.
She asked believing, studying as she asked until the
w ithin responded to the outer call.
S ^ w b c d c
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
She got better jobs and more responsible positions until
she changed to an executive position. She won because
o f fo llo w in g law .
It helps the young. It helps the mature, and it helps
the old. A lw ay s it is abiding Faith.
A ddie was one o f the very young. She came when she
was scarcely tw en ty and has alw ays remained faithful.
She never seems to find a d ifficu lty in separating the
Spiritual fro m the body life.
In the body she is gentle, kind and considerate, and that
is her spirit also, w ith this abiding courage.
She know s w ith G od all things are possible. And so she
"asks believing” and carries on, w ith a courage never
w anting.
She has been aw ay a long time so I have hundreds of
telegram s recording her Faith.
She has recovered from every sickness, solved every
problem about w ork. H as rescued her brother from a
bibler and is now carryin g on the same as twenty-five
years ago.
She is a constant conversationalist w ith the Prophet and
they go to the Pilgrim , when clicking in she asks believing,
sends a telegram and alw ays the answer is returned.
T h at is the testim ony o f one lone w ayfarer that has ac­
com plished the impossible from a physical standpoint but
is an abiding expectation fo r those o f faith.
A ll that constitutes a problem is answered in Addie’s
w ay, a w ay open to every one.
A ll that is in any problem is one o f adjustment to the
w ithin. It is more than Silence or being still, for it is all
that, while putting succinct principles to w ork to awaken
the w ithin.
It is through the principles o f prayer and is always the
same.
One day m any years ago Jim came. H e was in distress
because his young w ife lay dying. A nd so hearing and
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 33 9
believing, and I hearing, w ent to her bedside.
She seemed to be dead, and most there thought she was,
but not know ing. I began the abstract process that I am
now relating, w ith the resolve to find and do.
I was puzzled and could not click in. Then I noticed
m y sm oking a cigarette. I quenched in and stilled m yself,
tuned in, and soon she was breathing.
She got well that day and I discontinued the habit I had,
that o f smoking. N o, I do not think it w rong, but I do
know where a habit is held, there is not perfect obedience
to the call o f lay all on the A ltar.
J. J. came when he was sick w ith consum ption and su f­
fering from hemorrhages. H e had faith and asked fo r re­
lief. This time the clicking in was instantaneous, and in a
little while, while his children looked on, he began a vigor­
ous sweat and his consum ption was relieved. T h at has
been m any years ago and so the w ork goes on from one
to another until the process becomes as natural as breath­
ing.
G reat is the faith o f J. J. H e knows o f the m any who
have had relief, and all from the same principle o f getting
to God. It is always from me to the Prophet, from him
to the Pilgrim and then the return to me and the patient.
A nd always it is law and a simple process o f clicking in to
the three states one after another, and com ing back to be
silent and alone w ith God doing the w ork.
N o w is not this part plain and do you not think you
too can do? T ry it and you w ill be surprised even more
than m y early disciples, who thought I had a special w ay,
and was not telling.
This is I think the great illusion o f all-seeking to know
the beaten path to righteous understanding. For most feel
there is some secret w ay— some mysterious m um bling o f
words, and thus pay little or no attention to the process
o f going into the Silence.
The Silence meaning in addition to being still is a m eth-
340 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
od o f getting acquainted w ith the Prophet and with him
the Pilgrim and we three w ith the " I A M ” bring the force
o f the " I A M ” aboard, to do the w ork through the Pil­
grim and Prophet while I stand as a dynamo of body worth
— fo r them to fin d energy.
It means Faith o f course, but more than that is proced­
ure from one thing— in thought— to another and culmi­
nating in laying the body down to find the supreme
pow er.
For when the body is separate from the Soul— and the
Soul journeys o f its ow n volition— there results an under­
standing o f no death. D eath being just a change of loca­
tion in living. A n d living, a closer relationship to God.
It is all a simple plan o f grow th— that becomes clearer
as one progresses in study.
I thought at the beginning I could get it all in a few
m onths or years,— but that is not true, for every day of
these more than fift y years has been fru itfu l o f something
m ore in closeness to G o d ’s plan.
I know the Masters and Disciples for the most part were
young m en, and to this is attributable their enthusiasm.
Later to turn to wisdom in the power and G lory of God
to carry on in the last part o f the early chapter.
G ettin g aw ay from w hat " I can” to what God does,
is a m editation that leads into the years. It is leaving the
body to abide more w ith the Prophet, and leaving the
Prophet to feel the indw elling Pilgrim .
The Pilgrim is nurtured in love, comes through by love,
and m ust be a living experience in the body. That is the
M aster’s call, and is the experience o f all on the path who
have experienced H is "presence” .
Thus Discipleship has no divided experience and no
serving o f tw o masters. It is alw ays love and love in the
abstract, to be cultivated and practiced as the individual
separates the three in their relationship, and has a working
know ledge o f going from one to the other.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 341
O f course, like love, it is always a building principle,
but is not possessive. For as used it connects to the D ivine
and becomes lasting.
W ithout love, discipleship is barred from com ing aboard,
and these links o f separate personalities are not experi­
enced. For then salvation is a body problem, and not of
freeing its tenacious clutch upon existence— falls into the
illusion o f the body being saved, and not the Soul.
It is a desirous love, that is cultivated and the illusions
o f Sin holding the body. It is not the rock upon which
Christ builded H is Church.
The Prophet is the first indication o f the body not being
all. Then when he surrenders to the Pilgrim , there is a
conviction o f the body being a resident form , and from
these the Pilgrim is the part saved.
A ll disciples m ust know this, fo r it is an im portant thing
in separation and in Faith. A faith going on from here.
It resolves itself in progression, and a realization o f that
part that is always falling apart and decaying.
It is really that part o f us that is separated by death and
returns to the earth, we must care for here, but not regret
in its decay.
The other part being o f God gives to the individual a
love principle o f God and as the altar is approached in
humbleness is at one w ith the Divine.
So in separateness o f principle we come face to face w ith
the greatest thing on earth, the freed spirit.
It goes from the crude body, but while going refines.
It takes the Prophet and refines him.
It dwells w ith the Spirit within, as the Pilgrim , and at
last crosses the borderline w ithout the sting o f death or
the fear o f the grave.
T hat is the H oly o f Holies— all can know here.
I AM I
C h a pter X X X IV
D IS C IP L E S B E C O M E IN IT IA T E S B Y PR A C T IC IN G
IN N E R C O N S C IO U S N E S S
T here is I regret to say, a tendency upon the part of all
m en to m isconstrue the pow er o f the Spirit. And while
denying its pow er in the flesh, nevertheless attribute to it
supernorm al activity.
For it is not uncom m on to hear o f belief, giving to the
body perm anent youth, freedom from accident, sickness,
old age and death; while all the time there is sickness, sin
and death to the body.
It is belief forgettin g the body is born to die.
It is a feeling o f the Spirit living always, and when com­
ing through, brings w ith it im m ortality. A something
that takes the place o f grow th, m atu rity and age, as if
these were not the com m on experiences of all mankind.
A transition, as it were, to put on im m ortality where
m ortality is law .
M an is born to die, and so im m ortality is not of the
body, but o f that something w ithin, constantly asking of
the body to receive and understand.
It is asking as an independent personality, and so while
it is livin g in the body, is nevertheless separate, and must
reclaim and culture the body to make itself known.
A n d this gives to the body a feeling o f partnership that
is the same as being im m ortal.
There follow s impulse and sequence o f matter as im­
m ortality, that never has been attached to the body. For
the body is a home in w hich the spirit lives for the allotted
[342]
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 343
time o f life here and is more as a home, is subject to sick­
ness and all the ills o f the flesh.
These are not afflictions o f the spirit though seemingly
taken as that b y most o f m ankind.
H erein is the separating difference. The body is born
to die. W hile the spirit living w ithin the body is subject
to the rights and wrongs o f the body and is influenced by
them. So m uch so that freedom depends upon the free­
dom o f the body from sin, sickness and doubt.
Thus m ankind m ust form a habit to live upon the God
side o f the ledger if there is to be heaven here, w ith all a
part o f it.
Before this, I have presented the living picture o f the
Spirit com ing through as the “ I A M ” w ith the Prophet
and Pilgrim as personalities to bring the body to the A ltar
and there transform relationship into an understanding;
the body has to be controlled to give freedom to the Soul.
I have taught the body has to have a fittin g life to re­
ceive God, know and love H im , and have H im come forth
through the Prophet and Pilgrim to do all manner o f
things that help on the road home.
A m ong these is the cure o f in harm ony, so natural to
the desired life into a freedom o f the Spirit at times from
body, and the method o f this freedom.
I know the Spirit has no lim it in the powers o f good­
ness, and is law and order based upon infinite, and so is
always love brought forth through prayer and applied
through service, I know that spirit has no time lim itation,
man has, for "T im e goes, not we. W ere it not so w hy
chain the hours. For youth were always ours. Tim e goes,
ah no” .
I wonder w hy I have chained them. Surely w ith me a
day is always or a thousand years, and a thousand years as
a day. It is a question o f body reckoning and not the im ­
mortal.
344 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
So take heart, we all have plenty o f time. Time to
know the presence o f G od, and then all time is as a mo­
m ent fo r all im m ortal.
W e w an t that side o f the equation, for discipleship is
follow in g the beaten path o f uncovering the hidden and
latent, by p u ttin g to the test the powers herein given of
those that know can, and do overcom e all the weaknesses
o f the flesh.
These powers are to bring fo rth the subconscious store­
house o f know ledge. T h at accum ulated through years of
living, and that attained by body control lead to Soul, to
be used in solving hum an relationships, that there may be
peace, happiness and contentm ent here upon earth and
am ongst men.
O f course there is the change from the old to the new.
From a belief o f a H eaven after death, to a heaven here
and now. From traditional belief to an accepted practice.
From disciples who are trained in their respective voca­
tions to practice vocation alone, to Disciples who will add
the God privilege to their vocations and go on from there.
This is a simple m eaning. God cures the sick. He does
so through law and therefore his best disciples are those
who have the God Principle first, and the profession after­
w ard.
The Spirit o f God ought to fit in and be a part of every
curative power. It is best in and am ong those who have
had previous training in the principles o f cure o f diseases.
These know M edical lore, and have a basis in medical
training. K n ow surgery and are expert, but do know the
principle o f bringing God to the presence o f the sick.
T h ey should be the Preachers who have the power to
bring the suffering to God through his presence and cure
o f the problems confronting all m ankind.
Yes, the D octor and the Preacher should be the same,
and then the H eaven spoken o f as being upon earth, would
be a real paradise.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 345
I have held this idea fo r a long time, believing it would
give to G od’s message and his Pilgrim and Prophet a real
place in the heart and mind o f all m ankind.
The testing is o f course in healing the Sick, and in ad­
justing business and social difficulties.
It is a dem onstration o f G od’s presence in the affairs
o f man.
It is not phenomenal but the wholesomeness o f inner
law. A something that makes the crooked places straight.
N atu rally it is grow th. A grow th from w ithin, that
fixed principles as all fix outer practices. Then both the
within and out fit, and both become practical. So all
practices are educational leading to inner consciousness as
well as outer knowledge.
The beginning is always in practice leading to negative
states of being that revealing m ay be possible. A nd this
is " Laying the body down, as in suggestion or in m em ory
studies, and are all some part o f hypnosis of fixin g ideas.
T h ey are developed by trial and practice leading to a
change in personality. T h at is individuals absorb what
they read or try to do, and in this manner become one
with.
W hen there is conviction o f the truth contemplated.
Then the change is in acceptance, and that changes body
thought. It is a change o f body to another personality
in laying down the old to take up the new.
T hat is suggestion, based upon conviction o f the truth
demonstrated, and so is a lasting power o f knowledge. For
it is a willingness accepting faith, believing, in something
new. Then the trial of the new, when fixed is a know l­
edge of the mental processes by which it can be done, al­
ways under like circumstances.
So faith is the basis o f God knowledge. Faith within
as a presence o f God.
Second, the method is suggestion. Suggestion fixed by
faith as a consciousness o f truth.
346 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
These tw o, go into a co n flict w ith m atter, calling upon
the W ithin, and so the m an tra; " I am the resurrection and
the L ife ” .
It is repeated alw ays in negative periods and at rest
times. Repeated until the w ithin answers, " I am Here”,
and " I am the resurrection and the L ife ” .
T hen w ithin is a realization o f the " I A M ” . And this is
the basis o f all study. A ll study o f a spiritual nature, start­
ing w ith Faith, and going from one practice to another
as given as principles that m ust be persisted in to break
down resistance, alw ays a part o f ignorance.
Breaking dow n the laws o f ignorance, egotism, desire,
aversion and life existence in the body, as a lasting thing
to be saved, are the forces that m ust be under control, be­
cause either or any o f them, hinder the application of the
true devotion to God in connection to them.
M an separates vocations and professions without regard
to G o d ’s laws. H e thinks he can do w ithout.
A n d those who have a knowledge o f G od’s law think
innerconsciousness is w ithout regard to physical and men­
tal practice. Both are w rong.
These separations should not be, fo r back o f every gift,
no m atter w hat is the Spirit.
This Spirit is the all supporting part o f the body in
every vocation. A n d it is to the Spirit, the very idea of
"T h e K ingdom o f heaven is born.” Therefore to have the
Spirit in the beginning, and w ith every vocation is to have
happiness, joy and peace.
N o w happiness, joy and peace are physical states de­
rived from m ind equilibrium , and while they are body,
also m ust connect w ith the universal or spiritual to have
the joy that is o f heaven, and so the laws o f going to God
m ust be as practical as the w ork, or becom ing efficient
in a profession.
W hen so, man has that something in daily tasks that
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 347
sustains, while helping to gain proficiency in any and
every vocation.
It is this something so m any try fo r through physical
rule and m ental m antra, and fail because o f the one great
something left out o f reckoning. T h at o f being conscious
o f the spirit o f God.
God is patient w ith his laws and waits fo r Saviors to
teach his simple w ay.
H e knows Prejudice and the Pharasees and Sadusees o f
every age, and sends these Saviors forth not only equipped
w ith what people are used too, but that other and greater
thing o f H is Spirit.
T h ey perform naturally and according to custom. A re
m aterial beings the same as all men. A nd are living exam ­
ples o f human life that all would love to know , yet do m ir­
acles.
So these men teach an acceptable philosophy, or a would
be acceptable, if it were not for the fact that m any see
in their w onderful doing, something that would in its
grow th take out selfish desire o f living, either in the pro­
fession of healing, or the profession o f law, or in the pro­
fession o f accum ulation, or in desire a better living con­
ditions than the lot o f others.
In fact the laws that lead to brotherhood are doubted
by the average individual, so they turn aw ay from the
most gracious o f feelings and most w onderful o f gifts to
a state o f being that has crum bled every civilization upon
the earth, that o f selfishness.
Still all the time, law is and is becoming more and more
apparent as the world of men begin to see the possibility
of a better civilization in universal education.
I f and when every living person has been given in child­
hood the basis of education in reading, w riting and arith­
metic, the time w ill be at hand for the entire world to
accept religious training in brotherhood. For all the time
348 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
the law is, and all the tim e the race is getting closer to that
time where they w ill surrender to know .
It is a slow process fo r it is the everlasting struggle of
the flesh against the corrected ideal o f the Spirit.
O n one side is the instinctive man w ith possession and
on the other is the abstraction o f law without fear or
doubt.
The abstract know s that fasting is the only method by
w hich the unw anted desires o f the body can be controlled.
So there is fasting through resolve against the instinctive
prides and feelings o f the flesh.
It is really a prayer o f the Silent times that belongs to
the resolve o f rest.
Fasting is the trem endous law o f restraint, starting with
the trivial habits o f m an, and leading to the great tempta­
tion where the body is in opposition to love in the abstract.
Love in the abstract is love w ithout hurt to any living
creature and so is never possessive.
Love there is o f the possessive, and this love the Prophet
is alw ays com batting as he calls upon the body to worship
the "L iv in g G od .”
It is the som ething that has so m uch fear in it, so much
doubt that all people rem em ber as jealous moments when
the living presence is gone and nothing but fear remains.
A bstract love has none o f these and so the individual has
a terrific struggle in com batting low er instincts by living
principles.
Everyone has the privilege o f non-resistance and this
applies to body indolence as well as non-resistance of o f­
fense.
It applies to that statem ent o f the Disciples, who said
"A ll things respond in m y nam e.” T o those who the
M aster recommended "m ore prayer and fasting” , to do
the things H e did.
I have heard m any denials from m y disciples asking the
w ay ; saying "W e cannot do these things” .
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 349
N o one can o f the body, and so the equation m ust be
changed to the God side where all is possible.
It is a change o f personality to the Pilgrim or the Proph­
et in every day affairs. A change that means leaving the
body authority to take up authority o f the Subconscious
or the Soul.
The subconscious is the home o f the Prophet. The Soul
is the home o f the Pilgrim . One o f these mixes the
thoughts o f the objective w ith that o f the Soul. Calling
on the one to listen to the other; and that is the fixed habit
o f m editation after contem plation and resolve.
N o w in the m ature years o f m y life I knew C oncentra­
tion to be prayer scientifically applied. A nd meditation
and asking, but the sequence of a fixed idea in the mind
derived from pondering and meditation.
Fixed habits o f thought are those tried and tested condi­
tions that make thought effective. Ju st as is the fu n d a­
mentals o f one plus one being tw o, while one times one is
always one.
This fixed condition in results is what makes the Proph­
et an ever present guide for the body; and the Pilgrim a
realization of the power o f the " I A M ” here.
Thus the Pilgrim and Prophet become fixtures in
thought and the w ay to accomplish certain d ifficu lt prob­
lems beyond body ability.
T h ey are real and true because by test they have proven
their place in body life. Then the body puts on new life
because o f divine association. It is a something people
notice or hear o f and come seeking.
In these later years the Pilgrim has been blessed with
m any coming.
Yes, o f course the law holds. Most come for some spe­
cific thing lacking in their life. T h ey come for relief,
but among these are disciples who com ing the same as the
m ultitude, remain to study.
350 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
Those w ho stud y becom e disciples and carry on in their
various fields as one "w h o is sent” .
Some in one vocation and others in that suited. Among
all o f w hich are the healers and teachers. Those who have
the power to straighten out the crooked places, and to
love all the time in a manner suited to bring the Pilgrim
abroad.
T hus cam e Ju n e. She cam e w ith quite a number, but
she alone rem ained to know .
Y ears have passed, and she is still teaching.
She cam e through the affirm ative philosophy and has
rem ained to know the real is an active divining power do­
ing because o f law .
W ith Ju n e it is the overcom ing o f difficulties regard­
ing financial reverses, that has given the greatest joy.
K n ow in g G od is abundance and alw ays cares is a won­
derful discovery, but when this is spread to helping others,
then it is a developing force to live close to the Inner pres­
ence where the Pilgrim and prophet reside.
Ju n e studied and had daily association fo r three years or
more. She got the vital underneath feeling that gives in­
tuition and later vision.
She brought W arren and M ary Lou who being differ­
ent in w orld ly things wanted to be freed from super
burdens.
Thus we began to lift the clouds, and give freedom to
bound Souls.
I taught them d ifferen t because o f the analytical mind.
Instead o f lessons it was reading and criticising the writ­
ten. Thus W arren had som ething to dig in upon, and
thus he began to know underneath there is this mighty
pow er that cures all things, when there is an asking be­
lieving.
M ary Lou is a negative to this positive, and so thinks
and ponders and then knows. Both put to the test that
know n and so the inner is com ing forth as they travel.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 351
There has been a grow ing interest on m y part am ong
those who have a medical training. "These are the men
I am persuaded w ill sometime build a church that 'floods
w ill not destroy’ ” for the foundation w ill be upon the
solid rock o f Spirit, while the body and mind are being
trained in a m aterial w ay to fix the body part as a master
power to carry on the w ork o f "H im who is sent.”
It is the simple principle o f changing thought from one
plane to another and fixin g treasures "w here m oth and
rust w ill not corrupt.”
I expect to see medicine changed into revelation and
Religion changed into science.
I AM I
C h a pter X X X V
T H E P IL G R IM C O M E S IN T O A U T H O R IT Y AS A
M E S S E N G E R O F L O V E L IF E
T o m ingle the tw o m ethods o f cure is to bring love out
o f darkness, that the enem ity o f both m ay be laid to rest.
There is no doubt o f "T h e Father w ithin curing,” and
also there is no doubt o f m edicine and surgery curing. And
there is no doubt that these tw o can be fused into one
whole wherein there w ill be greater good to all mankind.
The eternal strife between the tw o is useless and ridicu­
lous. For w ho is so selfish, unreasonable and false to life,
that he w ould readily sacrifice it because o f ignorance.
It m ay be because o f m y study o f medicine, I have al­
w ays looked upon it as a great and good something, in the
hands o f the skilled, while alw ays I have a sincere regret
fo r that body o f the medical w orld that think there is
nothing beyond their skill and half-science to cure.
A n d because o f almost fift y years in the cure o f dis­
ease through spirit pow er, I regret even more the fact
"T h e Father w ithin is not given a place side by side with
all remedies and these welded into one, to be the last word
in help.”
Surely the Sick w ant to get well, and they are the ones
who need help. W h y not help them?
In fact it is m y plea to m ake the D octor and the Spirit­
ual healer one. The separation is on account o f prejudice
and ignorance. Ignorance on the part o f both in culture
and in experience.
I am conscious that Healers are often ignorant of all
things pertaining to the human body. T h ey have not been
[352]
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 353
skilled in the studies that m ake M edicine a profession.
N either has the D octor been skilled on that part o f the
hum an mind that leads to a scientific approach to God and
the revelations that come from the God side o f the ledger
o f life.
The H ealer, and I speak o f the ordinary one, is a simple
Soul, believing if he has had experience w ith Conversion,
or has been cured o f some com plaint: "T h e Father w ithin
heals,” and it is only necessary to bow the head or bend
the knee in prayer ” believing,” and a cure there w ill be.
It is absurd, o f course; just as absurd as the D octors
stock in trade, w hich at most is only about a dozen rem e­
dies. Three o f which are o f usual use.
W hen there is great Sickness, both the healer and the
D octor stand silent while death takes its toll. A ll o f which
can be remedied by a scientific m ingling w ith God o f the
" I A M ” principles, and those things that belong to the
healing touch from both a spiritual and Physical stand­
point.
It means an equalization of thought, co-mingling the
planes of the Spirit, Soul, Mind and Body to cure.
I have practiced this co-m ingling w ithin m y ow n home
and advised it among patients w ith great success.
In fact I am persuaded the D octor should also be the
Preacher; teaching the laws o f God as he goes about heal­
ing the Sick. For this reason I am giving m y ow n per­
sonal experience.
It is to get upon the plane o f doing, and there remain
until the task is done.
It means that all life is on the planes know n as Body,
M ind, Soul and Spirit.
T o be on one or the other is to shut o ff for the moment
the others, through blanking, or clicking in, and then con­
nect w ith the object to affect atonement. Then turn on
the heat o f cure.
354 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
M y constant change o f thought from one plane to an­
other, is as in childhood w ith m y you th fu l playmates. It
is to listen and hear. A n d that is the w ay w ith the Proph­
et and P ilgrim now . I go to the " I A M ” through culti­
vation that has assumed habit. A n d that is the way with
all. For the " I A M ” is as som ething to be wooed. So is
a call o f Suggestion.
I have long know n the Pilgrim and H is power to heal
the Sick. N o w I am experiencing authority to straighten
out the crooked places and to give a more abundant life.
The Pilgrim is m y m aster o f love that never gives up
or w avers in auth ority and loyalty. H e gives all to God,
and to me a privilege o f know in g Peace within. A peace
that is supreme.
H e asks nothing in the w ay o f rew ard, save that of
obedience o f both m ind and body to accept the conscious­
ness o f an indw elling spirit that m ay be trained until it is
instant in service.
H e fills m y body and m ind w ith an invading spirit as
tender as the spring w ind, and is the "S p irit of God upon
me .
H e comes stilling emotions, and all destructive feeling
as the m antle o f love gives peace to all men.
H e is a love messenger in m y rest periods, and when I
retire. H e cultivates this pow er because it is love that
cures. Love and the direction o f it through the philoso­
ph y o f cure.
H e brooks no opposition while alw ays non-resistant.
H ealing is his method o f m aking G od know n amongst
men.
Prayer is his plan o f subduing the body to his will.
Love is alw ays at the A ltar and alw ays a part o f his
presence.
T hrough love he compells resolve to be a part and the
beginning o f prayer. A fte r love enters into contempla-
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 355
tion, and the correcting o f personal mistakes. Then he
puts something good in their place.
H e tells all to do that, and when asked how, says: "S ta rt
from here, and then come back and pay debts, but rem em ­
ber to rem em ber.”
H e tells me, "N o one can fool God w ithin.”
H e is always the urge to come through w ith a message
o f peace. A love in the highest, because it is the first great
com mandment.
" I A M ” is love, God loves w ithin the body, and he the
Pilgrim always a messenger.
H e is as silent as God, and is God doing the works. So
must be treated by the m aterial w orld as a sacred guest
to be a help to all m ankind w ith their m aterial troubles
in a m aterial w ay.
H e talks to me and I to him in the silence and when
the body is still.
It is the voiceless voice o f the Spirit yet leaves a message
as if shouted.
So I hear him again and again say; " I am the resurrec­
tion and the L ife ,” and am here as a messenger to give
power to the body and mind.
I have made it possible fo r him to be w ith me every
night and in the m orning when awakening.
It is always love, this message o f his, and that is what
I take w ith me in m y daily tasks.
The w ork o f the day is the foot printing o f resolve and
love and always bids me get up again when down and try
again when failing.
H e tells me to start now, leaving the dead past; and so
when starting to come back again, to try again and to live
again.
H e has carried me through every handicap and discour­
agement o f life.
H e has changed me into a more fittin g instrum ent to
356 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
do his w ill through the failures I have made, and the
mistakes com m itted.
H e has given me the approach in treating and in doing
all things.
T he Breaths to take.
The w ay to subconsciousness.
The principles o f prayer.
T he suggestions that mean to lay a life down.
The religious observances that give renewal of life.
The laws o f C oncentration and the specific things to
do in all sickness and diseases.
N o w do you not think this w ould be a wonderful help
in the practice o f medicine in the cure o f human-kind?
Also can you not see the trem endous o ffer medicine has
in the natural prophylactics, in hygiene, in those things
natu rally physical and m aterial in action, the ordinary
m an has to do in curing, from w rapping a sore to the
lancing o f a boil, to the more serious com plaints that may
or m ay not need surgery.
W ith the grow th o f the D ivine, that comes naturally
w ith study o f devotional treatise and the few books on
real subjects, givin g super knowledge, there form s in the
mind a practical plan o f teaching.
It carries the student into the realm o f the Subconscious
and there unfolds the powers o f "stored aw ay knowl­
edge” , from the subconscious as well as that part o f us still
deeper hidden that belong to the realm o f Soul. Thus the
simple laws o f suggestion are the beginning o f all Prayer,
and the basis o f change in personality.
These laws become hypnotic because they so fasten the
m ind it loses objective observance fo r a time while being
lulled into a sleep that separates.
In this sleep there are states, and in the states subdivi­
sions that lead, when properly directed into a stored
knowledge w ith a w ay to open the stored, and thus by
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 357
simple processes there is opened to the objective all that is
usually hidden from most o f m ankind.
T o go on there is a vast field o f inform ation to be at­
tained through w orking principles that are practical be­
cause going always through strict adherence to a single
practice to get results.
Jun e developed the receptive force, w ith silence natural,
and so quickly began to see and enjoy life free from em o­
tion and melancholy. She met the unwanted depression
face to face, nothing left out. A nd from there heard m y
oft-repeated assertion; "T a k e up from here. There is
nothing o f w orth lost. A ll life is before you ” .
Paul said: "T h o u gh you have everything and have not
love, you are as nothing.” N o w to have lost everything
w ith love abiding is the power that shows the greatest
thing in all the world. A nd to start again is but to fu n c­
tion as life.
W ondering and pondering upon the things I did not
know , and the w ay they came through; and the fact the
Prophet and Pilgrim were always the messengers, I began
to know there was nothing hidden that could not be re­
vealed. And know all can know.
The revealing is always the same, and means to lay down
one personality to take up those closer to the throne, and
through the Prophet always have the Pilgrim relay from
the " I A M ” that desired.
A t a long last, I discovered, to receive, there had to be
laying down o f body contention. A nd also to receive
was not always remembered, but the w ay could be.
Thus I knew the Prophet had cured m any incurable
diseases. (Incurable from a medical standpoint) by h av­
ing the Pilgrim active.
I knew the methods o f concentration, subconsciousness
and Breath, were remembered and recorded for further
use.
358 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
H is w o rd ” was enough to rem ove warts, wrens and
blemishes.
H is w ord gave peace to m any in dire trouble.
People from everyw here called upon him or sent hank-
kerchief, trinkets or little possessions and reported mar­
velous relief.
A n old lady reported from C alifornia, that she had a
one uniting (Shin bone) after m any years o f decay.
W arts and blemishes passed according to faith. Thou­
sands o f them.
Thus the Prophet o f me proved that "asking believing”
constituted a faith that had m arvelous effect upon the
ody. B u t the "believing had to be both in the asker and
the giver.”
H e speaks o f the Soul, as the " I A M ” bound by the self-
accepted lim itations o f the body.
■ ^e banishes this lim itation b y the same law that ban­
ishes fear. T h at is, going tow ard it, and rem oving limita­
tion by test and trial.
H e dem onstrates he is m aster o f the body and the Soul
m aster o f him . Thus the Pilgrim carries on, as he tunes
in and accepts infinite power.
This acceptation is in surrender o f the ego to an in­
dw elling Spirit, and like a w atchm an has to be constantly
on guard.
H e kept im pressing these truths until I knew him, and
could go into the silence and ask believing, I knew, as he
took me to the Soul, the Soul kept me close to the " I AM ”
and then things happened as a "presence” , and aside from
me.
I knew the body to be the home o f the Prophet and Pil*
grim and as such the servant o f them in w ork. And all
this occurred by the law o f negation. The body had to
be negative to the Prophet and the Prophet to the Pil­
grim , as these m aster forces o f the body did the work.
I knew heaven to be a state o f harm ony here and
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 359
amongst men. So there was nothing lacking in the conclu­
sion fo r H eaven is alw ays upon earth and amongst men.
Its going too, is but a change from unrighteousness to
the law.
Its destiny is a home in w hich to rest between active
earth experience, or a place to go on to the infinite from
there.
It is this consciousness the Pilgrim brings to the Prophet
and he to me.
It is a message o f love and peace, that "surpasseth hu­
man understanding” and so is thought by the m any im ­
possible.
The Prophet and Pilgrim are alw ays hidden from the
naked eye, but in every thought and especially in m edita­
tions they become apparent, until through association and
the effect o f w ork are living companions.
The fact o f experience has enabled me to realize these
distinct personalities. A nd I know there is a beaten path
to this understanding so that all can travel the road.
O f course, there m ust be a training after accepting, and
this training always is in the body. It is the same train­
ing as any w ork and is an efficien cy in practices neces­
sary to receive from inner and higher sources. Sources
that bring the Prophet in m editation and the Pilgrim as a
power to do. For all healing is a training and all phenom ­
enal w ork the result of revealed knowledge.
Thus the Prophet is in control o f body function in times
o f study. A nd to him is the adjustm ent o f opinion.
H e controls the body opinion by tolerance and while
taking the body to the Pilgrim restrains me from the
pricks and arrows that befall one who cures diseases w ith ­
out medicine or drugs o f any sort.
W hile the powers o f the Pilgrim are always hidden, the
expression of them are not. There are cures upon cures
reaching beyond the powers o f the m aterial and even
touching the infinite in doing.
360 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
Y e t all the tim e there are those like the Sadusees and
Pharisees o f old, standing afar o ff to see whether there is
a violation o f m an made law.
A n d these laws are m any and nefarious. They begin
w ith prohibiting "th e cure o f diseases o f human creatures
by any system w hatsoever, w ithout first having a license
to practice m edicine.” A n d end w ith petty little laws
about death and birth. A ll o f w hich indicate the hand
o f ignorance in tryin g to prohibit that w hich God in infi­
nite m ercy enjoined as an evidence o f "H is word” here
am ongst men.
The rem edy is in acceptances o f both in the field of cur­
ing, and o f m aking both necessary fo r successful practice.
T hen w ould be a glorious realization o f the M aster’s laws.
T hen there would be no crime in praying for the Sick.
No crime in curing them.
No crime in bringing children into the world without
pain or blemished.
No crime in burying the dead. The crime would be in
those things hurtful to society. Httrtful because of privi­
leges within professions, to not tell the truth about things
and conditions of practice, now an ethical habit.
Rem em ber healing should be the blessed privilege of all
men to carry their woes to God in prayer.
It should be to have him in the midst o f them when
tw o or more join in prayer.
There could possibly be no crim e in that, for it is Pray­
er whether laying on hands as C hrist did, or in knowing
the extenuated practice and culture the result of forty
years or more study o f divine law.
Still it is open to the most ignorant who feel the call
and realize the power o f God w ithin to do.
It is also a man made privilege o f every D octor to give
o f drugs, often unknow n to cure.
H e too, w ants to relieve.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 361
One is a feeling o f man made laws that hikes back to
the W itchery of early medicine or the barber pole o f early
Surgery, and the other m ay be ignorant but it has the ad­
vantage o f God as a backing.
The basis is also differen t. Prayer has the silence. A
silence com m on to every one. It has a subconscious rev-
ery just beyond silence. It is this part that leads one aw ay
from body conclusions and into affirm ation, that "w ith
God all things are possible.”
The assertion is ridiculous, when made by one that has
not separated God from the body. It is pertinent when
"the Father w ithin doeth the w orks.”
Love is foolish, when it is asserted Passion is the expres­
sion o f love. It is pertinent and com m anding when ab­
stract.
O rdinary breathing cures no one, but breath w ith God,
and the great breaths cure all diseases and sicknesses.
Posture when a physical expression o f egotism is o f no
value. Posture when in the act o f prayer, is a means o f
laying the body down to receive the Prophet and Pilgrim
and brings one closer to the throne o f grace.
Concentration when stubborn hurts the individual, but
a cultural concentration is o f immense value for it is a
practice of bringing the body in tune w ith the infinite
and of make the brain receptive to mind powers that Spir­
itual things m ay be known.
The whole o f practice is to have the body and mind
function in acceptance o f Soul powers, not to abuse or
assume, but to know and give.
The abuse o f these principles through ignorance is alike
to the ignorance o f medicine and hinders the realization
o f the Kingdom of H eaven here.
So limitations o f the God power to physical wants is
absurd. For H e is law, does not change. N either can man
change him in jot or title o f law.
I AM I
C h a pter X X X V I
E S S E N T IA L S T H A T B R IN G T H E P IL G R IM O U T AS
IF A W IS H W A S A L L
T he distinctions between the stillness that brings about
revelation and the reasoning that belongs to outer events
1S TUVCr .
more. aPParent than in the diagnosis of disease.
M aterial science uses pulse, tem perature, history, heart­
beat, locality o f hurt, percussion, X -ra y , blood testing and
the general sym tom ology to determ ine disease.
Indeed the more specialized the more extended the di­
agnosis through contrivances and tests o f various devices
that have little value.
Stillness that C licks in ” is a process o f going beyond
t e flesh to be atone w ith the cause o f things. It is not
a m ental e ffo rt, unless stilling thought m ay be called men-
A h ls.,a n .aPProacl1 to the A lta r to bring the " I AM ”
an t e Pilgrim outw ard in a distinct message, saying this
is the cause, and w ithin is the rem edy.
. The cause is alw ays a violation o f law and the remedy
is alw ays in correction the violation. O utw ardly it is
called forgiveness o f sins.
The process o f Sinking in to find cause is concentration
w ith a seed in the first instances o f trial. A nd at the same
* n e a filling the m ind w ith a consciousness o f "w ith God
all things are possible.” Both are grow th. One to realize
sickness and doubt, that gives the inharmonies to
the body; and the other a fillin g o f the subconscious to
give revelation to problems. So m uch so, that after long
practice it becomes one w ith outw ard w ork. Then is the
[362]
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 363
Christ saying: "T h is kind takes m uch prayer and fastin g” .
H is words indicate there is a perfection o f the mind and
body by practices, and is the same at Patanjali points to
as perfection through birth, drugs, incantations and devo­
tion. The latter being the im portant principle in every
day effo rt.
A D E V O T IO N T H A T D O E S N O T D O U B T T H E
P O W E R O F G O D T H R O U G H " I A M ” T O C O M E
F O R T H A S A P IL G R IM A M O N G S T M E N . The P il­
grim giving power, "the very wish therefor is the same as
doing.” A nd this kind, "T akes m uch prayer and fastin g” .
Thus intention is the basis o f grow th fo r w ith it must
be the years o f concentration that changes the objective
doubting self to a believing devotee that uses ordinary
practices and principles to get aw ay from objective trou ­
bles into a "Peace” that is beyond "hum an understand-
* 33
m g •
Otherwise there w ill be only "O ccasional” works that
w ill indicate a God presence. A n incident here and there
that reason does not give the answer. So m ust be p rovi­
dential.
These are the occasional things not explainable in every
life. For instance visions, hunches, change o f feeling in
forsaking and forgetting others, fo r w hich there is not
reason.
Instant feelings o f belief or hate. Love or averse feel­
ing. D oubt and fear; all w ithout reason.
A fixed feeling o f love is the antidote to these physical
mental conditions. A nd that is o f God.
W ith love grounded in feeling is the only approach to
the A ltar. T h at is to have results in a changed feeling.
N atu rally m y first prayers were in rote to tradition and
were more o f an irksome task than a love offering.
H ow ever the habit o f prayer left in m em ory the method
usually pursued in going to God. It is either a ritual
form , or a personal petition o f w ant, based upon fear.
364 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
C allin g when in w an t is not an approach to God, for
H is approach m ust be in love. This I found true after a
long series o f try in g the other w ay.
Love at the A ltar, is in fa ct loving everybody, every­
where all the time. It is a feeling and a something cre­
ated and lived w ithin.
Thus the Silent prayer has the basis o f a purified and
abstract love going out to meet the "arrow s and pricks”
o f the w orld w ith a com placency that is emancipation
from objective feeling.
It is really the pow er o f G od w ithin meeting the out­
side w orld as if isolated from it and yet controlling.
So Isolation and Em ancipation is the law and way. The
w ay to get aw ay from the body and into a feeling of Om­
nipresence through a changed feeling in relation to God.
This Love and the Silent prayer were entered into (in
m y you th ) to control body function so that the state of
freedom w ould be in a feeling o f closeness to God in all
essential affairs.
N o t that the body w ould not have its own, and func­
tion as all that have gone before, but now, there would be
a definite resolve to go tow ard Love and to create a per­
m anent feeling o f a suprem e power.
The method is to resolve in the m ind to repeat the
m antra, " I love everybody, fo r I am the resurrection and
the L ife ” .
There is a close sim ilarity between this m antra and the
o ft repeated one o f the H ypn otist o f "Sleep, Sleep, Sleep •
Repeated w ith pivoting o f eyes until the sensitive does go
to sleep.
The m antras’ have a feeling oneness, because they are
consent m antras. A n d o f course suggestion that fixes the
thought w ithin as perm anent.
Thus the basis o f going to God through M antra is a con­
stantly changing attitude from the ego and an outer rea­
soning basis, to a feeling that becomes a conviction o f God
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME }6S
being w ithin and H is presence com ing forth through the
Pilgrim ; through process o f bringing me to the A ltar w ith
the Prophet to talk problems over and then get the feeling
of a personality that is on the God side o f every problem.
The attitude starts w ith resolve to remember the things
o f change taking place in Silent prayer and especially the
cleaning process that corrects mistakes o f the past by p ay­
ing w hat is owed before "asking believing.”
This process o f prayer, while the most effective ever
know n, is also the most d ifficu lt. D iffic u lt because o f its
requirements to pay debt.
The ordinary person does not know how ; fo r he says
debts are o f the past. The people ow ing, gone. H is fail­
ure is in not know ing God is never gone or past.
H e must be H O N E S T . H e must believe and ask be­
lieving.
It is a changed personality from objective thinking de­
sire. Indeed it is to put conquesting desire behind, while
changing attitude to the God side.
T o be honest is to pay debts, correcting faults o f selfish
trading and advantages. N o m atter the cause or oppor­
tunity o f unjust gain. IT is that time in life when " I T
IS P A Y D A Y W IT H C O N S C IE N C E .”
Debts of the past are as the sins o f the past, paid by a
change o f Conscience wherein paym ent is a life funda­
mental, and the past wiped out by a willingness to pay
now pressed down and heaping over.
It is direct activity and conscious doing in actual deeds
now, that cancels debt that otherwise is past.
O f course the past cannot live now, but the failures
can be corrected and these by a changed attitude from the
out to a within that really is a partnership w ith God.
The principle is one given in Patanjali’s aphorisms.
"W hen abstinence from theft, in mind and act, is com ­
plete, the devotee has the power o f all material w ealth” .
3 6 6 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
It is the plan to free the m ind from theft, that is tak­
ing advantage o f others fro m w ith in ; then is the within
a creator o f w ealth and ceases to be an object; for it
already has all needs supplied.
T hen w ealth becomes the same as breath. There is no
m ore needed.
G lorious feelin g; this o f being on the side of God for it
actu ally leaves the body side o f desire, and then all the
feeling that m akes o f desire accum ulative fade and there
is peace and plenty. For then is love.
T he division o f personalities is the result o f discussing
d ifferen t forces in living. D iffere n t in effect but com­
ing fro m a d ifferen t source, yet w ithin the same.
The body is traditional and predatory. Its emotions
and feelings the same.
The differen ce being in control and culture of indi­
viduals. T his is also a grounded feeling that gives a basis
fo r people and individuals fallin g back upon the substance
o f all that has gone before. A n d this is the birth part of
Patanjali, who says "som e are born w ith these powers of
Soul” .
T he Prophet is an evolved condition, that puts on per­
sonality, because o f use. H e became m y associate for the
simple reason I had to have some one to talk m y problems
over w ith, that w ould in no wise betray. Talking to Him
became more and m ore a fixed habit as results became ap­
parent through practice. I could "ask believing.”
H e led me to the A lta r and we both sought the rules
o f the Silent prayer to go w ithin to find that something
that m ust be akin to God.
T h at practice is so natural to all o f the race, " I presume
it to be a habit, the more practiced the greater the effi­
ciency in w o rk ” .
Ju st to ask God through rule and rote, gave the Silent
Prayer a pow erful place to iron out m oot questions, and
when these rules are found efficien t to the point o f change
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 367
in personality there is a solution. T h at is w hat gives the
Silent prayer its reliability.
It answers questions when the approach is right. B u t
the approach m ust be made a habit. A habit o f the years.
For it is easy to drop the essentials when contacting so
much that is physical, and therefore there is a constant
necessity o f watchfulness to make a habit o f Prayer in the
Silence, and fix the Prophet as an interm ediary to the in ­
ner "presence” .
H e then becomes a talking "presence” that is a part o f
life the same as any friend is ordinarily.
H e, however, is silent to others and uses the silence fo r
Isolation.
Indeed he brings the disciple aw ay from the w orld o f
ordinary thought to be m uch alone physically. A nd al­
ways so when there is the necessity o f an approach to the
A ltar.
I love people, I love to converse w ith them, to share
their joys and sorrows. T o be w ith them in laughter and
in serious moments, but have found during m y fift y years,
the more I stay w ith m yself, the easier it is to remember
and do.
It is not a selfish feeling but an allegiance to a supreme
cause.
It at last mellows itself into a friendliness that reaches
to others in kindly feeling all the time.
A ll o f these practices lead to the great thing in the m ys­
tery o f being, and that is to the Pilgrim and H is com ing
through in helps to mankind.
H e does not come unto man until the body and mind
are bridged across the lake o f "Illusion” .
H e comes w ith a message that is felt in w ork.
H e comes healing, in straightening out the crooked
places, and in giving abundance.
H e is the joy o f the Lord in the heart o f man, and
grows w ith the years when there is nothing left out or
368 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
p u t in the law . For it is as straight as a two edged sword
"v a ry in g neither to the left or righ t.”
A fte r the approach to the " I A M ” through these three
agencies then follow s application in expressing God to the
w orld o f men.
It is a stud y o f Breath and the "L ife w ave” , a study and
practice o f religious postures, a study o f silence as a scien­
tific practice. N o t the stillness all men fall into, but that
other som ething that is a beaten path to the Kingdom. A
silence o f devotion.
It is the Isolation o f C hrist in the Wilderness, and the
tem ptations there or Buddha sitting under the Bodhi tree.
The Silence o f Paul after his blindness because of Christ
visit.
It is an em ancipation from the flesh and the control of
the three qualities o f it called good, bad and indifferent.
M ore than that, is the control o f the mind force to
m ake life above body thought where there is a feeling of
w ork being neither good or bad. For "O ne knows that
m ental deposits are not eternal because o f the force of
desire that created them ” . T h ey are dispensed by spirit
and the pow er o f spirit, and then they do not exist. And
as Patanjali goes on to say: "W h en the understanding and
the Soul are united self-know ledge results.”
It is a self-know ledge o f the Pilgrim and grows as the
body grow s in the G race o f the Lord.
Then the mind embraces various form s, as practice goes
on and there is a gradual change in the body and mind re­
garding the things o f w orth.
It is not strange or m ystic, but the result o f putting the
body down, through m uch practice and m any failures,
until there is a habit o f the w ay and process to control.
It is because o f a constant w ork upon the here life and
a liftin g in vibration until vision and trance are possible
in the body now.
It thus annihilates space and sees clearly.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 369
It also finds use for the hidden resources o f the body to
use the ductless glands or Indocrines, fo r a raising power
to sustain the body as it grow s older or as needs be in
others. For vibration raises the entire tone o f the body
and then is follow ed those higher things o f m om ent that
seem m arvelous, or are doubted by the masses.
T o direct business and domestic affairs. T o put love
to action in bringing about desired results. Results the
body and physical plans are not capable o f doing.
It is the power that gave Christ the privilege o f seeing
Lazarus and the power o f H is staying w ith H is Disciples
until the H o ly Ghost fell upon them.
The power that gave H im presence at the last supper,
and the power that I have used m any years in contacting
and helping patients and disciples, no m atter where or the
help wanted. W hen right it goes forth and they know .
Rem em ber Christ answered your question as I do. "T h is
kind takes m uch prayer and fasting.”
It is not an abiding path but a rough hewn road.
The practice o f em ancipation and isolation starts w ith
little things in early belief that have as a basis a genuine
feeling o f love.
It finds that Love at the A ltar or at the time o f e ffo rt
brings about some force not know n before.
Some pain or trouble is dissipated. Then starts a hunt
for a w ay and the power fo r other trials.
Observation is the start and the rules o f prayer and o f
psychology. Y e t Prayer is changed to silent meditation,
and the practice kept going to the time when there is a
real feeing o f change under effort.
This change is sought to be always, only to find the
process is one o f M antra and m uch trial. For it comes
slow ly at first and is beset w ith m any illusions. Such is
the effect o f fan cy, m em ory and sleep where dreams
come.
370 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
It is a large field o f accum ulated thought to pass and
is called the Lake o f "Illu sio n ” . Persist and persist where
there are results, and after a time this lake is passed.
T hen follow s a feeling o f a guide, the Prophet, and he
leads to another personality, the Pilgrim .
It is a long and lonesome road fo r there is not only an
em ancipation from desire going on, and that means free­
dom from gossip, but also an Isloation that is of the Sil­
ence.
A fte r a tim e the "click in g in” is followed by experi­
ences o f the Soul leading to H eaven here and among men.
Things become practical, that is the changes of the body
and after while is a realization o f "Everlastin g life.”
I AMI
C h a p t e r X X X V II
T H E P IL G R IM B R IN G S O U T T H E H ID D E N
P O W E R S O F T H E B O D Y
Thus the master power o f life whispers as these things
are accom plished; within are functions not ordinarily
know n through objective observances that are really m as­
ter powers in bringing God as a "presence in doing m ighty
w orks” .
A fte r a time these become, through fixedness o f prac­
tice; forces that are autom atically used, and therefore
come about " B y the very wish therefor” .
T h ey come through experience in the testing times
when disease is com batted. T h ey are like a new found
discovery that gives power to that already know n.
T hey are the "D uctless glands o f the body” .
In m y ow n experience while treating M rs. D an fo r the
debility that befalls most women in their thirties, and in
the beginning of vital life, her "sick tim e” made her inert
and weak.
W hile treating I contacted that portion o f the body
around and about the umbilicus. (N avel it is called ), and
found the response marvelous in her getting better. She
said " it is a tingling sensation and you make me feel so
good” .
The treatm ent was from the Spleen and pancreas and
using the Solar Plexus. It gave me a dizziness o f feeling
and a seeming closing to the ears. So it gave cause to
meditate. So again I realized the words o f Patanjali, "A s-
[371]
372 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
suredly the exposition o f concentration is about to be
m ade.”
In seeking, I found I was draw ing from the Pituitary
body, and also fro m the T h yro id gland, with the Solar
Plexus as a transmission.
She got w ell, and becam e a m other.
It taught a w ay to cure the devitalized and give virility
to the weak.
O ld m an U p ton cam e, because o f being "all run down
and a loss o f vital a ctiv ity ” . H e also responded to the
fu nctioning gland treatm ent, and said he felt forty years
younger.
Thus began in early life, the study o f the Ductless
glands, and their pow er in treatm ent.
A t first they were hard to perceive, in vision or contact
in vibration.
It took m uch practice and "rest periods” to bring this
about.
It how ever did come w ith the effectiveness o f treatment
responding according to efficien cy.
A lw ays it is the "Peace treatm ent” and always the
"q u iverin g fin ger” contacting the other body in a state
o f abstractions that does the w ork.
A lw ays, it is after "click in g in” and always when the
three points o f contact are com plete. These are to breathe
the same, to feel socially the same, and to image physi­
cal vitality and be at one.
Then the treatm ents are alw ays according to the dis­
ease.
The Glands are the P itu itary and Pineal in the head;
the T h yroid and Para T h yroid in the throat; the Spleen
below the heart; the A drenal above the K idneys; the Pan­
creas and the Gondas.
O f course, the non-ductless glands are o f great service.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 373
But the Ductless are those that have super pow er in the
body.
Thus the " I A M ” and the relationship o f the Pilgrim ,
Prophet and Me to the supreme cause, comes in sequence.
One to the other, either up or down, but alw ays experi­
enced in the body and so simple a child can understand.
It is a principle in the difference o f com m unication that
gives personality. One is felt, the other prayed for, and
the last perceived.
H ow ever, all come w ithin body consciousness, and so
activities that can be understood in the dark as well as the
light.
It is the feeling o f virtue going out, o f feeling tired,
and o f grow ing aw ay from one condition into another.
It is w ork accomplished in action and a constant feeling
o f negation to higher impulse and a positive one to the
lower.
It is a feeling o f time changing conditions, while ripen­
ing that which does not die.
Ripening, so as year follow s year, there is less and less
o f body clinging to life, and a freer giving, that others
m ay know more o f life.
The body is fed w ith the magnetism o f the earth as it
contacts w ith physical exercises.
It romps in childhood, becomes natural and effective
in youth, and then begins a recession from middle age.
A nd this depletion o f magnetism, and is the cause o f body
age and death.
It comes up the legs, crosses to the Um bilicus, and then
to the kidney, spleen and ducts there going to the brain,
and ducts, and returning to the throat and heart. A ll
o f which is contacting the Ductless glands, that give to
the pattern, its life and vigor.
Inhibition or stoppage in the circle o f magnetism hin­
ders vitality, and so those who have a poor or meager cir­
culation have trouble in age limit. The cure o f which is
374 t h e p il g r im , p r o p h e t a n d me
in a resum e o f m agnetism . A n d this is in Breath and in a
free flo w o f earth ly m agnetic coil.
T he stoppage is largely abdom inal. In the Colon or
groin, or in a girdled abdom en. These are strangulations
o f the life w ave, and relieved b y rem oving the cause.
T he second reason fo r inhibition is too much work, and
continuous toil. T his has a tendency to harden arteries,
and close up relationship o f the vital gland life.
T h e third is in lack o f rest that gives a negation to se­
vere and a rest that does not fu lfill nature’s plan.
Y e t all the tim e the Prophet intercedes and the Pilgrim
does; not to m ake the body o f longer age, but to make it
harm onious to G o d ’s plan while here as H is servant.
It is true the body is born to die. It is true the mind
is stilled at death. It is true the Soul carries across the
grave the m istakes here and it is true the Spirit is neither
old or you n g bu t lives forever.
Then, let dow n, or cast aside, that which is no longer
vital in age to rest a while between times, and get a new
start. Ju st as G od tells m ankind to lay down burdens,
they cannot stand. Burdens o f failure and o f sin. Start
from here, and then when able, come back and straighten
out the crooked places. T here w ill alw ays be a time.
A t death the same law holds rest, and the Soul comes
back.
T h at is the simple order o f things. It is alw ays a change
going aw ay from the body to the subconscious, and from
that to the Soul and from the Soul to the everlasting.
There is in it all no change in life. For in each is a
dw elling and the occupant o f it. It is a simple process
o f m aking an e ffo rt fo r better livin g conditions.
O f course there is fear and doubt from that left behind,
and so fear and doubt belong to the decaying body more
than to the Prophet or the Pilgrim , and more to these
than the " I A M ” .
A lw ays the cure is in suggestion, in seeing fear depart.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 375
It is believing w ithin is Christ, asking fo r belief and
then dem onstrating belief in the cure and happiness o f
the bodies that ultim ately m ust die.
H is message is not fo r the body perpetuity, but a dem ­
onstration o f a pow er through it, o f life that changes resi­
dence, until it becomes one w ith the A L L .
A sking believing is the cru x o f having prayer answered.
The key is in curing all m anner o f diseases and sicknesses
in the body and so arousing the body it w ill become con­
scious o f an indwelling spirit.
The " I A M ” carries on through all transitions, and
makes easier the plan o f recollection.
It becomes the im m ortal w ithin the body. Som ething
that meets the doubts o f the w orld w ith evidences o f
prayer answered. O f peace w ithin, and o f knowledge
there is no sting to death.
Even though the w orld doubts the evidence o f the Soul.
This personal revelation is always present w ith no one
experiencing ever to doubt again.
So while the body grows old, there is a consciousness
o f the Pilgrim that never grows old. A nd the feeling this
is the time o f life where all things are good.
The energy o f youth follow s into m aturity to the crea­
tive, and doing, when there follow s m ature thought o f
one who has reached the peak o f earthly knowledge, to
end in the revery and m editation o f old age.
W hich is best? N o one knows. For the best is always
in the love that gives w ithout regard to circum stance o f
receiving.
Gives that others know ing m ay find the w ay to happi­
ness.
It is not age but giving that counts. A nd this starts in
childhood’s early hour and continues to that time where
the curtain is rung down.
Looking backw ard, I do not know o f any time that is
best.
376 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
I do kn ow o f happenings rich in experience that indi­
cated a change and a better living outlook.
I do rem em ber w hen doubt left me about the future.
W hen I rem em bered the " I A M ” and the suggestion
that brought this consciousness to me.
I do rem em ber when Faith came to me o f the "I AM”
being alw ays present w ith in the body.
I do rem em ber when I first experienced hypnotism,
and the objective slow ly turns to an inner consciousness
o f pow er.
I do rem em ber when this inner consciousness became
the Silent prayer.
I do know o f an aw akening to the Spirit within and
how the Prophet was born in consciousness.
I do know o f the real lack in connection and the fear
and doubt o f it when b y faith and w ork I had the realiza­
tion o f the Pilgrim doing the w ork.
I do know when the Pilgrim became a power and later
a personal associate, in the trials o f the flesh.
I do know when I realized there is w ithin a way to be
personally acquainted and an associate w ith the spirit of
me and that this even banishes the fears I had before of the
sting o f death.
I do know o f the m ethod pursued in separating the body
and spirit and the m anner o f prayer necessary to know.
I do know that I have given this to others and they too
know .
I do know where heaven is located and also the place
o f sleeping souls, that m ay be called hell.
I do know that love is the beginning and ending of
every good e ffo rt.
T h at Religion is so simple a child can understand and
so com plex the learned savants w ill not comprehend.
I do know this because m aterial m an is looking for sub­
stance and disregards the feeling that is really “ a change
o f heart” .
W /m
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 377
I do know that faith leading to salvation has to be
turned into Faith doing.
I do know that one person healed by prayer is w orth
more than thousands believing in an after salvation.
A ll the practices are disciplining and while each person
m ay have a differen t w ay o f doing, all m ust experience
the same changes in God relationship. For all m ust know
the difference between the personal, the Prophet and the
Pilgrim . A nd each m ust realize the " I A M ” . This at
first is always by repeating the m antra, " I A M the resur­
rection and the life” and "E ven though I am dead I shall
live again” .
This m ay be called faith fo r salvation. A n y w ay it is
faith through suggestion m aking it stick. Then reali­
zation.
From this come the practice o f H ypnotism , that form s
the basis o f all consciousness o f God presence and H is
powers in man.
These powers demonstrated are fixed principles and
practices each m ust follow .
Each m ust cultivate love of the abstract and express it
personally to overcom e offenses.
Each must have a friendliness, based upon God presence,
to go and do fo r others.
Each m ust m ake prayer a habit, and have it as a time
to love abstractly, to abide within law , and to ask be­
lieving.
Each must practice Posture and the eightfold principles
of unfoldm ent, from m aterial to spiritual conception of
things. These are practices already given.
Each must think, feel and say good things o f others.
Each must go through change in feeling, and from one
state to another, in faith.
Finally when there is the time o f transition when the
body is laid down, and the soul becomes free. Each must
go tow ard this separateness w ithout fear and because God
378 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
is calling fo r greater experience. A nd so it is similar to
"Salvatio n b y fa ith ” before the feeling fills the heart and
m ind.
It is alike to Baptism before Baptism is realized.
A n d alike the forgiveness o f Sins before there is reali­
zation o f divine grace— that does forgive.
It is that tim e o f freedom , when the Soul free, is allowed
to bring to the body the assurance o f everlasting life.
P A R T F O U R
The Pilgrim , having become efficien t in transm itting
to me the Principles and A ctivities o f the Soul, as seen
through the I A M I, gives a solution to the present "E c o ­
nom ic Situation” .
Saying: "T h e m oney systems o f the w orld are upon a
false basis, because not reckoning food, raim ent and shel­
ter as exchange fundam entals.
"T h e y are, and so should m oney be dependent upon the
w ork and product that creates them from the earth as
value.
"W o rk and product are intrinsic. A lw ays so. M ake
them the basis o f m oney and there w ill be no w an t.”
I AMI
C h a pter X X X V II I
The Dollar and what it means as a realization of happi­
ness and prosperity.
I asked the Pilgrim w h at the financial systems of the
w orld in relation to nations and to individuals?
H e answered "a ll m aterial practices have effect upon
the Soul and all G overnm ent financial or monetary sys­
tems upon the people.” Then he continued:
A m ericans often speak o f the dollar as the "Almighty
D o llar” . It seems to be just that, to the hungry and
thirsty.
H ow ever, the average m an hopes to have enough of
dollars to spend w ithout fear and to enjoy luxury with­
out cram ping or heavy expense. H e very often fails.
H e w ants to m ake enough to be free from budgeting,
scrim ping and denying him self the natural necessities.
M ost A m ericans have been taught the task of saving,
and this habit has made a great num ber become slaves
to the idea o f leaving a com petence, and even great accu­
m ulation, to their children.
The policy is w rong in principle, and certainly helps to
w eaken the m oral fibre o f the chosen heirs.
H ard knocks have been the school through which great­
ness comes. T he law o f strict discipline still holds good.
So all men should be taught and disciplined in the whole­
someness o f w ork: good com m on labor.
This should start in youth and be m aintained through
life.
W ork w ith an equal or greater am ount o f recreation
and rest is the best recipe know n to make man healthy,
w ealthy and wise.
[380]
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 381
H ow ever, as it is now , selfishness compels w ork.
Selfishness based upon a com petitive system, wherein
the strong destroy the weak.
It is w ork fo r gain, and gain becomes the measure of
value in money. M oney as a media has alw ays measured
human values— but has done so from a restricted stand­
point and from the belief only a few can be rich or have
power.
Therefore, the measuring pow er o f wealth has alw ays
been associated w ith that hard to get, and having value
within itself.
W hen the media got beyond the trade and barter state,
where men traded in bulk, then metals, trinkets and g lit­
tering objects became a m edia; also bronze, silver and
gold separated themselves from the baser metals, and be­
came tokens o f trade value.
This was all the more acceptable because these metals
lend themselves to the finer arts and to craftsm anship as
ornamentations that had value w ithin themselves.
Gold and silver value is called intrinsic, and means
stable value. Value that remains the same, indeed within,
always the same.
Silver has not been so stable. Its m ining is in greater
quantities, so the lessening o f intrinsic or stable w orth.
It, therefore, loses its value in com parison to gold. Still
it has an equal value w ith gold as a representative media
and a trem endously greater value in change and should
always have remained in free p arity w ith gold.
Gold has remained scarce. Scarcely more than tw enty
billion dollars w orth in the world. So that as a media it
is scarce and called intrinsic.
The plan is to have m oney based upon something m etal­
lic that has value w ithin itself. Thus is the term intrin­
sic given to gold and silver because o f their scarcity and
cost in producing.
382 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
T oken m oney is based upon trust, or credit. It is here
based upon gold.
W ith in the past fe w years, however, the plan of both
the Federal Reserve, and of banking itself, shows there
m ust be a revision to save the nation and individuals from
inevitable p overty.
T he nations estim ated w ealth is from four hundred bil­
lion to one thousand billion dollars. Its annual producing
w ealth is estim ated at one hundred billion dollars. Its
gold is never m ore than eight billion dollars.
T he problem then is to have eight billion dollars move
one or tw o hundred billion dollars w orth o f wealth, or
one dollar p ay tw enty.
The debt o f cities, m unicipalities, states and govern­
ments, is so great, there is not enough gold at any time
to liquidate even in portion, the interest.
This means trem endous scarcity o f the media.
It also means the producers o f wealth are the first to
su ffer, that is, the Farm er and W age Earner.
It makes the media high— ten to twenty times too high.
A n d labor and product are the same amount under nor­
mal. So labor and w ealth w ill never meet, until the
media makes them co-existant.
It can only mean a nation o f w hich only a few can have
w ealth— five per cent or less, indeed.
The m oney system as now circulating shows too great
a pow er o f hiding aw ay or o f not being available to carry
on the natural business o f governm ent. Especially is this
evident in industrial enterprise, where labor and product
are both stilled, because o f a lack in money, caused by
"Interests” w ithholding.
The hardest hit o f all people, by scarcity o f money and
its plan o f circulation, if there can be a singling out of
vocations, is the producer of food, or farming interests.
W ith them and along in poverty, are the laboring
classes, m eaning the com m on as well as skilled laborer.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 383
Follow ing closely is the m iddle class, including the
m erchant, trades, professional m an, and all who have not
had advantage o f stored-aw ay capital.
Taxes have m ounted higher and higher as business de­
pression increased, so that this burden is bearing heavily
upon all the people.
The governm ents, from nation, state and local pow ers;
have constantly increased the tax rates; and the necessity
of an increased am ount until there is universal unrest, and
feeling: " I t cannot go on.”
The farm er has had his farm m ortgaged. So has the
laboring m an his home. The middle m an, also; and all
indeed save the favored few .
There are certainly less than 1 0 % of the citizens of this
nation in the class of the money sacred.
H o w long w ill it last? Indeed, how long can it last?
Is there not a time, and that soon, when there w ill be
general revolt? God save the day when the w orld is turned
into turm oil through actual hunger!
It is to avoid this revolt, these fundam entals are given:
fo r it is believed there is a solution to the problem of
"w a n t” — One sane, safe, and fraught with great good.
It is the result o f careful study o f the m oney systems
o f the past and accepting the statement, m oney m ust be
safe and based upon intrinsic value. Token m oney m ust
be a legal tender. O ur exchange honored everyw here be­
cause back o f it is real w ork and the product o f the
farm .
The laboring man must be paid a m inim um wage o f
not less than five dollars for a legal day’s w ork. The
real day is fo r w ork w ithout slack and has or should have
a m inim um hour wage as well as an hour lim it for a day.
N o shirking and no extra effo rt. Ju st w hat a norm al
man or wom an can and is expected to do in any one hour
or day.
384 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
T he farm er means any w ho produces from the soil
in crops o f any and every kind. T he fruits and vege­
tables grow n, the livestock kept and all kinds of domestic
life in w hich the farm er engages.
These should be graded m uch as now , and a stable price
fixed above and below w hich they m ust not sell. He is
not to be lim ited in produce but is to be controlled by
price fixin g.
T hus the farm er’s produce and the laborer’s wage and
hour regulation is to be the basis o f all wealth.
T h e rise fro m the m inim um wage is left to efficiency
w ith p ro fit sharing as a business part o f distribution.
The wealth of nations is always of individual creation
in work.
M an w orks, creates and builds. H is hands get from the
soil its product o f food, clothing and shelter and these
are universal necessities.
Man power {work) produces from the earth, substance
to sustain life and liberty.
These two are the natural inheritance of all men, and
should be so regarded by all mankind. Therefore, work
should be the basis of media of exchange between man
and man, and based upon man power, or manual labor,
and produce from the farms.
H e takes from the earth its minerals and shapes what
he takes into useful utilities fo r m ankind. Things that
m ankind w ants and needs.
H e builds ships to conquer the ocean and makes easy
the com m unication o f all the races o f the earth.
H e conquers the air and spans the earth w ithout hind­
rance. H e does things well and is ever demanding to do
better things. H e w ants w ork free and unafraid, to build
freedom fo r the races yet to be.
H is w ork is wealth producing. N o single part of
w hich is to be le ft out in reckoning o f things accom­
plished; or to be accomplished.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 385
Behind every field o f w ork and every kind o f endeavor
is manual labor. Therefore, it is m an pow er that builds
the wealth o f nations. A ll men know that, and yet man
and his labor, are left alone, unreckoned and unrecog­
nized as a media base o f m oney to give power as a repre­
sentative value of intrinsic worth.
The nation that gives to its laborers the greatest liberty;
also initiates the greatest inventiveness leading to discovery
and knowledge in all w alks o f life. T h at is the w ay na­
tions grow and create wealth.
W ork, peace and orderly conduct are the building
forces.
W ork, therefore, must have as an incentive ambition
and hope o f personal contentm ent to be its best. It m ust
be free and unafraid.
W ork is better under pay and good environm ent. O f
course, man works when under bondage, but it takes
freedom and freedom ’s hope for him to do the best, and
make a w ealthy nation.
In Greece, the Athenians were a happy people in com ­
parison w ith the Spartans. T h ey had greater freedom,
more love and happiness.
Everyone has read or heard of the greatness o f Greece.
The Athenians were the flow er o f the race. Athens, the
center o f culture.
Athens is where one visions Demosthenes and his ora­
tory. Images Socrates, w alking and talking to his dis­
ciples. There was the home o f Aristotle, the great phi­
losopher, reasoner, and logitian. There one reads of
H om er, and is refreshed w ith the power o f free thought.
Refreshed w ith the thinking powers o f m an; expressed in
philosophy, science, music, art, literature and culture.
Their laboring people were free, had great privileges,
and experienced it, in expressive art, sculpture and physi­
cal development that has been and is the m arvel o f think­
ing men.
386 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
It was the pow er o f operation in thought, building and
m ental execution. T he w ealth that has lived on is in art,
sculpture, architecture, philosophy, music and literature.
It had a great draw back in debt and credit.
T he destruction o f G reek civilization was because of
debt creating conditions, burdensom e in tax, and the tri­
bute laid upon the individual, because o f unequal media
o f exchange.
This latter was tax assessment and personal surrender
o f liberty to satisfy the few . It was lu xu ry gone mad;
that surrendered liberty.
Pythagarus was a slave. T he greatest mathematical
genius o f all ages, a slave, because o f m oney; yet money
did not represent w ealth, fo r w ealth is based upon work.
M oney did lim it freedom and create stagnation and death.
It made a slave o f Pythagarus. He was bound by money.
F o rty-six years o f his life a slave.
M oney gave to m ight victo ry over right. It makes
m ight, rig h t; but kills civilization. The Greeks were a
very w ealthy nation, but decayed under the ban of un­
equal rights. M oney w ithout intrinsic value did that.
T h ey grew to be conquerors o f the east and west.
T h ey traveled everyw here in conquest.
A very brave nation and a m entally strong people, with
all pow erfu l armies and great generals.
T heir history reads o f wars and conquered nations. Of
treasures captured and nations plundered. Their history
tells o f slavery and o f being conquered and dying.
Inspiration can only be found in the home of a con­
tented people, free from debt and its slavery entailment.
So the w ealth o f Greece was before she got money mad.
Labor and product gave her liberty, and basis o f won­
derful grow th. Greed killed her, b y binding grievous
burdens.
Slavery destroys patriotism . M en w ork; but it is not
w ealth, just labor. The wealth o f a nation dies as its peo-
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 387
pie feel the hungers o f poverty. So Greece died.
Solon banished "th e m onum ent m ortgage” from the
poor Greek farm er. H e also gave some very explicit laws
about p ro fit and m an’s rights.
H e overlooked exchange, and the intrinsic value o f
w ork. H e tried to save a nation but his laws were based
upon p overty and not labor. U pon a media and tribute
which gave depreciated currency.
H e failed to preserve liberty and the kindling glow
o f power faded. Greece did not prosper long. H er laws
were not adequate.
No purely property laws, can be. There m ust be an
equitable means o f exchange based upon the same law as
creative wealth: that media is w ork, and the product of
the soil. Both must be stable.
T h ey had banking laws that relate to rights in debt
paying and also to taxes.
W hen greed and m oney levies the burden o f tribute
upon the rights o f a people, and their burdens by taxes
and interest becomes greater than product, then taxes
fail, and the nation dies. The wealth o f Greece as a nation
was thus taxed and died.
The nation went to sleep. A sleep that knows no
waking.
The Jew ish people protected rights o f debt paying as
recorded in the Bible, and every year had a reckoning day;
every seven years, one o f adjustm ents; and the great year
called the Jubilee Y ear (every 50 years) was a time when
all debts were cancelled.
It is perhaps the strictest accomplishm ent o f adjudica­
tion ever given, and w ould give wealth to national life,
if outside conditions o f greed and exploitations could be
stopped or controlled. I f w ork was given its rightful
place as a media for all wealth.
W hether the plan was ever practiced, remains to be in
388 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
doubt. It does meet greed b y retribution and therefore
should be practiced.
It should be solacing and good.
In no nation is the pow er o f tribute more felt than
am ong the Jew s as given in the Bible. N one that bound
m ore grievous burdens, upon the poor. N one that made
m ore o f the fetish o f m oney, or so misunderstood the true
w ealth o f nations. Y e t from the Jew s came Christ.
C h rist said, "T h e laborer is w orth y o f his hire,” when
H e sent H is apostles out to teach and preach brotherhood
to all the w orld.
M en call H is teachings Socialism. W hatever the name,
is true and is the greatest exposition o f human rights ever
given to m an.
Labor and product is made a real pow er in His phi­
losophy. H is plan is on ly im p erfectly practiced, but
even as m uch as it is and has been, is building the greatest
people on earth. Soul free individuals.
The R om an em pire fell because o f greed, poverty and
slavery.
There were no free men to protect a once proud em­
pire from the invasion o f the H uns, fo r that was when
Rom e was a farm producing county.
It is w ritten, " A t one tim e to be a Rom an was greater
than to be a k in g.”
For over five hundred years, the Rom an empire grew
and w axed strong under the influence o f a free working
people and farm ing.
Its w ealth o f building and substantial structure is still
the m arvel o f the world.
Its roads still stand the ravages o f time.
G reat as R om e’s civilization was, it was destroyed by
binding unjust burdens upon the poor, who are the true
source o f wealth. It forgot free men are a pow er greater
than w ealth, even create liberty as they do wealth.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 389
Read G ibbon’s Rise and Fall o f the R om an Em pire, and
there w ill be no doubt o f exploitation and fastening o f tax
burdens upon the people, no doubt this practice was the
direct cause o f underm ining their liberty.
D ebt w ith prison and slaving enforcem ent, changed
free Rom ans into chattels, called "G a lle y slaves” .
Rom e’s history is one o f law and more law fo r the col­
lection o f debt.
Plans o f credit and o f loans that constantly increased
personal burdens were fastened upon the people and w rit­
ten into law.
Its banking system in collection was most com plete.
Rom e forgot wealth is not in media, and used the media
as wealth. She forgot it is not in m aking slaves that
power is m aintained but in free men. So Rom e fell.
She too sleeps in the night of that time that never
wakes.
The laws o f Rom e, as they do in all debt collecting na­
tions, began in m aking m oney greater than hum an rights.
G reater than products. Its media regulated earnings and
the laborer soon was unable to pay. Then prison, restric­
tion o f liberty and at last, slavery. M ore than 9 0 % o f
the people o f Rom e were slaves when Rom e fell.
Slaves do not figh t to preserve tyranny.
For almost a thousand years vandalism existed in E u ­
rope. Then labor began to assert itself. T he soil was
reclaimed and governm ents began to function as they did
in the past.
It was the age o f the Rennaissance. The arts were re­
vived, philosophy came to life, and a new day began
dawning, fo r the race o f man.
O f course, through all this pillage, governm ents did
live, and function, but w ithout the com m ercial tax gath­
ering and therefore, are not know n fo r their media, so
m uch as in w ar and conquest. Econom ic usage perished
w ith orderly governm ent.
390 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
In the seventeenth centu ry, the m onetary system began
to be im portant and banking renewed money life.
There was a general revival and stabilizing of the media
w ith the discovery o f the new w orld. The great treasures
in South A m erica and in M exico gave lust for conquest
and search fo r gold. These countries were pillaged for
their gold in tem ples and mines, and a seemingly peace­
fu l civilization crushed because o f non-resistance.
This had its direct effect through adventure, in the re­
establishm ent o f finance am ongst the nations of Europe.
England, France, Spain, Belgium , Prussia, Austria, Po­
land, Italy, and Russia were notable examples.
T h ey each established a standard o f wealth measured in
m etallic coin; from w hich banks o f issue (paper money)
came w ith the revival o f collection laws. Still, always
back o f issue was land and product o f farm there. Money
once rem oved from creative value becomes an independ­
ent usage. T h at is, m oney assumes value within itself
w ith its ow n basis.
M ost all m oney standards are based upon gold and
silver.
For at least three hundred years, civilization has been
burdened w ith this false standard, fo r the media of ex­
change itself. A standard that does not now nor never
has met the demands of a free exchange. For gold and
silver do not spin or weave. T h ey are not w ork or prod­
uct, and should never control either.
N ations have w axed strong in power, not because of
the exchange o f media based upon gold and silver (that
has partially filled the w ant in m easuring values), but
because there have been great and numerous strides in
individual liberty. Some new lands and countries were
discovered and conquered. These gave freedom of op­
portun ity not restricted by capital.
So wealth increased in spite of, and not because of,
money.
mm
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 391
N ew countries instilled freedom , and so slavery slow ly
receded to give greater pow er to w ork and less to m oney
because m oney did not regulate wages, through control
of property.
It was the change from free spaces, to owned property,
and a change o f slavery to m oney restrictions that did
this.
M oney should not have the right to m ake slaves.
Slavery came into existence through inordinate greed
and ownership o f property or through m ortgages.
It has been know n and taught, slavery is not good
governm ent. N o r do slaves make good citizens even
when they are wage slaves. So m ortgages mean poor citi­
zenship.
W age slaves is the problem now. The binding of bur­
dens through want and lack of opportunity to work is as
fearfu l as when chattel slavery was in the land. Both
the restât of inordinate greed.
A m onetary system that thus inflicts m ankind is not
in the interests o f liberty and patriotism . Slavery is not
wealth, but death.
The system is at fault. There m ust be a rem edy. There
is, in a simple base o f know ing w hat creates and con­
stitutes wealth and then changing the basis o f m oney ac­
cordingly.
Everyone recognizes w ork and product as an inalien­
able right. It m ust be paid. So w h y not save civilization
by changing the basis o f the media of exchange to meet
m an’s need?
Base the media upon an honest day’s w ork and a fixed
price in valuation o f the product o f the soil.
It is to pay m anual labor a fixed m inim um o f five dol­
lars a day and farm product as a fixed stability, and then
all other things can fit into this arrangem ent, w ith no one
having a special privilege.
392 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
A bou t the fundam entals this is based upon what can be
produced on the farm o f average fertility as a one horse
crop, that w ill average the livin g wage o f five dollars and
in addition thereto, a fair interest on land and the cost of
upkeep.
It is five dollars a day fo r unskilled labor and a fixed
price fo r all farm products, averaging the same on the
labor basis. Then the farm w ill be productive and labor
paid, so all w ill be plenty and happiness.
W hile financiers, econom ical experts and brain trusters
have been busy holding the horns o f an angry bull they
forget the simple principles o f "m an m ust earn his living
by the sweat o f his face” . "F o r the laborer is worthy of
his hire.”
So tie the old Goats o f Speculation and Financial Pri­
vilege outside and come in and give attention to the Living
T ru th o f Equality.
Thus ended "T h e P ilgrim ’s” first instruction about the
basis o f m oney. H e then said he w ould continue.
I AMI
C h apter X X X I X
M O N E Y F R E E D O M
Reactions to Financial Position
The effect o f financial change upon individuals is so
tremendous and differen t there is no rule to measure re­
flexes.
One person drifts from affluence into moderate or
straightened circum stances, w ith little outw ard change;
while another loses grip, initiative and individuality and
is a whipped personality.
The great m ajority are whipped. Especially so, when
victim s o f circum stances in w hich there was no control.
Circum stances o f m oney scarcity, or lack o f faith on the
part o f loaning interests, swept aw ay possessions, leaving
the victim poor indeed.
There is no single circumstance that will so change man
for better or worse, as failure in business enterprise.
There is nothing that so saps m an’s courage as continu­
ous denial o f financial aid, when m oney is needed to
carry on.
There is no fear so great as that o f debt unpaid and
inability to p ay; no remorse so fearfu l as that o f seeing
a lifetim e’s savings disappear because o f m oney scarcity
and money fear.
The dread o f creditors calling, warps courage, destroys
peace and gives a feeling o f dread, nothing in hum an emo­
tions can equal. T o the self-respecting individual, it is a
dread and fear that saps moral fibre and makes him give
[393]
394 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
up. T o become, as self-righteous individuals say, "A
leaner and an indigent” .
T h e fibre in the average m an w ill not withstand failure
and the hardship o f straightened circumstances. He
should never be com pelled to p u t his conscience to such
a test.
T o the figh ter, it is d iffic u lt but different. He is
dow n but w ith courage and faith ; is not beaten, and will
come back again.
He looks at money as a friend that has failed and wants
to know why. H e w ill find the answer, the world has
been w aiting for.
It is in changing the m oney system to real creative
value. It is w ork-p rod u ct and m oney are co-related in
that one expresses the other.
H e finds the anwser in understanding, money is pos­
session and not w ealth. It is a media and not creation.
Therefore, m oney m ust have confidence to operate. W ith­
out confidence it ceases to be o f value to help in times of
stress. It must have work value within itself.
E m p ty are all the values o f m oney o f everyday civili­
zation when it fails to stabilize real land or labor values.
Land and w ork have been and alw ays are intrinsic. Have
alw ays been so, even though the media o f exchange has
made value a representative and not the real thing; and
even though m oney seems to be separate and apart from
w ork.
The individual who becomes suddenly w ealthy finds
m oney w aiting fo r him. It becomes a servant to smooth
the w ay, as it should be, nothing more or less.
H is reaction is opposite to that o f failure. H e assumes
com m and and is arrogant. The ego is inflated, giving as­
sumed powers, and grandeur not easily or naturally; but
assumed.
C haracter and habit do not change by the circumstance
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 395
o f getting rich, that gives station to life beyond that ordi­
narily lived.
Character m ust be moulded to meet conditions o f
money. Building character takes time, even though there
is free m oney because o f success.
The suddenly rich are disappointed.
H e asks fo r place, position and mental rest. H e wants
to carry habits into a changed financial position and finds
disappointments. H e turns to m oney as a friend, to lift
environm ent, and it does not. It cannot change the in ­
herited conscience o f individual life; station and place
are moulded b y conscience.
It fails, and he wants to know w hy. H e finds m oney is
possession and not wealth. It is a media and not creation.
It must have confidence to operate. 'Without confidence
it ceases to be of value, to make environment happy or
contented.
The conclusion is, when values are placed upon money,
and not upon character, values are false.
Character is moulded by accepting the fundam ental o f
w ork and product, as a basis for all physical, mental and
spiritual enlightenm ent.
O uter physical conditions should not m ar the peace and
contentm ent o f the soul.
So m an must choose his treasures where his heart is. I f
on the side o f possession w ithout the substance o f w ork
and product giving peace, happiness and good w ill, m oney
is o f little or no value.
The w orld does not give m uch to man when his health,
happiness, peace and abundance can be seriously changed
either by lack or over supply o f money.
M oney has too m uch power when it does that. It is
too m uch master, when it can either make a slave or a
king. It has no right to create either.
It assumes too m uch power, when it gives either pros­
perity or poverty to a nation. It has no right to make one
396 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
m an prosperous, and a hundred indigent.
T h e nation is m ore than m oney. It should be master
of its own wealth in resource and work with money ex­
pressing a just media; nothing more.
M oney has assumed an unjust and destructive place in
national econom ics when it makes capital greater, and
m ore sacred, than hum an life, and profit greater than
man’s right to work.
The media as now existing does have power to make
and destroy. Stop or create; to stagnate or give. It
thus assumes a power beyond wealth, and over the inalien­
able rights of man.
It makes money wealth; also master.
Wealth is not money. T h at is created by w ork of man
upon the earth, givin g food, clothing, and shelter. The
fundam entals all m ankind m ust have to live. Wealth is
created b y w ork, and should never be separated there­
from .
W ealth and m oney intertw ine, but they must be
thought o f separately. One the servant o f the other, and
never master.
There is need o f change in the basis o f wealth valuation.
A ll m ankind m ust realize labor and product is the basis
of wealth, and labor and product must be the first con­
sideration in every dollar.
The foolishness o f intrinsic value being in gold or sil­
ver, is an illusion that needs only intelligent study to dis­
pel.
Measure the illusion against w ork and product, and it
w ill be concluded gold and silver do not give food, cloth­
ing and shelter, but are at most lim ited; and cannot be
intrinsic, unless made so by scarcity, or m andatory law.
So their part at most is to represent value, and not to
express actual wealth. Som ething that confidence can be
placed in because o f tangibility.
These metals are scarce, and are a good guarantee of
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 397
exchange o f value, when all avenues o f e ffo rt are nor­
m ally busy.
Scarcity o f the media makes m oney precious. It also
gives power to control through profit. Thus enters p rofit
that takes aw ay free exchange, because some o f the ex­
change is constantly w ithdraw n from circulation and put
in reserve or hoarded. It is the p rofit part.
A profit sharing exchange is not a good exchange.
Scarcity o f gold has its advantage in creating desire o f
possession. It therefore is, can be, and should be, used to
satisfy desire o f something tangible representing wealth,
that w ill make exchange stable and guarantee an equitable
balance between nations.
Labor is also such a basis fo r the media o f exchange,
when backed and abetted by gold reserve, makes both dou­
bly stable. Labor m ust have value attached to stabilize
and give w ork a just standard. That is in standard of
wage value, based tipon manual labor, and always the
same.
Gold reserves in the treasury o f the nation is a stabilizer
o f value, and should represent the intrinsic value o f labor
in every day’s w ork. Representing labor, it thus becomes
a great asset to the nation. For it, through tradition,
makes value equitable and free. Freedom o f value is
necessary as a means by w hich wealth w ill be continuous
in m aking m oney free in exchange. It thus becomes a
security in labor paid for through the national and indi­
vidual debts.
It should be continuous and distributed to every w ork­
ing hand. Thus gold, and work, would represent creation
and wealth.
Good wholesome labor disciplines the body and like
education is necessary to the well being o f everyone. A ll
w ork, therefore, should have a just wage, and be standard­
ized, beginning w ith manual or common labor, and be
graded according to economic standards o f producing that
398 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
w hich is essential to the w ell being and com fort of the
nation.
T h rou gh labor, m an changes the earth in productive­
ness. H e brings from the soil food, clothing and shelter.
H e takes fro m the earth its minerals and transforms them
into useful helps fo r m an. H e takes from the air, and the
sea, and builds a race from states o f savagery to enlighten­
m ent through w ork, and the energy o f his brain and
hands. For this there m ust be a tangible pay represented
in stated value fo r given tim e in w ork wage.
Labor does that. It m ust not be burdened, so the
media o f exchange should depend upon w ork. Every man
a creator and entitled to so m uch exchange o f money
fo r every hour.
He then becomes the master of his own destiny and the
builder of his own fortune.
H e eats better food. H e clothes him self better. He
lives in better houses. H e educates him self better. He
know s m ore o f life and its problems. H e becomes a
thinker and an upstanding citizen.
(This has been, fo r all who have attained opulence
under the present form o f financing. W hen universally
attained it w ill apply to the races as it has to individual
fortunes.)
U n iversality means a cultivation o f the finer senses,
and brotherhood w ith an equal chance fo r all men.
It means patriotism and love o f coun try w ill be w or­
shipped around the fireside, and altars o f every home.
It has been said the fires o f patriotism that have burned
around the altars fo r almost tw o centuries are dead. Killed
by poverty. It is not true now , but can soon be, and will
be when hope is left through the guiding process o f un­
equal rights.
Poverty kills patriotism; but poverty has not stilled the
hope and aspiration of Americans. N either has idleness
crushed the spirit o f hope.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 39 9
T h ey still feel, there is a home and com petence some
time in the fu tu re, so buckle on the arm or o f determ ina­
tion and struggle on. It seems hopeless, but nevertheless,
is hope.
The home is the safeguard o f liberty and citadel o f
patriotism , so every m an should have his ow n home free
from doubt and debts.
i
*
There should be no labor stagnation and no poverty
amongst the people. N o free labor— no idle.
Poverty has always been the greatest enem y o f the gov­
ernment. It gnaws at the very heartstrings o f those in
sore need. It gnaws when man is struggling between
hunger, love o f fam ily, and the sinister outside, prohibit­
ing labor and food. It gnaws and love dies.
W hen love is sacrificed in w ant, patriotism dies. M ake
labor free and this w ill not be. Honest w ork w ith pay is
the w ay to save the nation and home life, o f all the peo­
ple, every day and always.
The cam pfires o f the nation must be kept burning by
a patriotism that insures equal justice, equal liberty and
equal security. These have been, w ill be now, and can
always be, m aintained w ith honest w ork and just pay, to
all the people.
O ur fathers called to their aid, A lm igh ty God, and
staged "T h e Boston Tea P arty” , as a protest against u n ­
just taxation and taxation w ithout representation.
From this was the D eclaration o f Independence; and
a w ar o f liberty resulting in the freedom o f Am erica.
A republic guaranteeing liberty and the pursuit o f hap­
piness. Promises not lightly made, fo r the promisers
pledged their property, liberty and life. This pledge
should be kept and maintained upon the basis made.
The fathers of the nation taught the w orld: a nation
o f men thought more o f freedom and the right to liberty
and pursuit of happiness than they did of life.
400 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
T h ey fou gh t fo r liberty and w on. For a representative
governm ent, where there was the right o f representation
in taxation. T h ey fou gh t fo r w ork, the liberty to work
and won.
M oney was unstable. It had to be stabilized. The
C onstitution did this in givin g the governm ent the sole
pow er to issue cu rren cy and regulate the value thereof;
but in the distribution there was the necessity of a sane
and safe vehicle o f distribution.
From the first, national bank laws did this. The banks
had to be concentrated by a slow process from state to
nation, so there were m any changes in the regulation laws
o f currency.
For over a h alf century this process went on. It was a
figh t between centralization and state rights; between
H am ilton and Jefferso n . C entralization won, and the
banking system o f the U nited States, in February, 1863,
changed into national banks; through the N ational Bank
A ct.
T he enactm ent gave trem endous pow er to the inter­
ests in taking aw ay from the governm ent its currency
power, in givin g to banks buying bonds, a free currency
o f 90 per cent o f the bond purchase. T h at is, the National
Bank notes have a value o f 9 / 10 o f w hich should belong
to the governm ent.
B y this concession, began the centralization o f wealth in
the hands o f the few , aided by later national bank laws
o f tremendous privilege. Thus creating a m oney monopoly
in a free country, binding grievous burdens.
Thus, said the Pilgrim , "is the battle between greed and
universality.”
I AMI
C h a p t e r X L
D E L E G A T E D P O W E R
Banking— The Federal Reserve Bank and Stable Money
Robert M orris was the first prom inent banker in the
U nited States. H e largely financed the Revolutionary
W ar; and o f course the new republic was indebted to
him.
It paid in bonds and grants. Bonds were authorized
and issued b y the governm ent as a first credit act o f the
new republic.
The Constitution gave the governm ent the sole power
to regulate value o f gold and silver and to establish m oney
and coin m oney; and to issue notes for circulation. This
power could have avoided bond issue.
There were m any state banks prior to the republic.
These state banks had the privilege o f issuing notes upon
themselves. These notes were demand notes, and gave
unequal value, because o f no intrinsic w orth, but circu ­
lated as money, now called "clack er” or trade.
Industries often, even now, use such m oney fo r com ­
missary trading.
Paper issue w ithout backing o f real w ork or product
is easily inflated and becomes sometimes worthless.
W ith w ork and product notes would always have in ­
trinsic value because representing wealth in finished la­
bor, and never lost value. It is strange, legislators have
not realized this tremendous fact.
The world needs now, as it always has, a stable and in­
trinsic media, the paym ent o f which means value in w ork
[401]
402 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
and product. There should be no substitutes, for there is
no other value.
T he banks o f our nation started as private stock con­
cerns, largely land banks, based upon practices in Europe.
T w o-th ird s land and one-third currency. These changed
into all cu rren cy later, w ith the governm ent issuing the
charter.
T he first bank o f the U nited States was founded in
17 9 1. It stabilized m oney and from it was born the
U nited States Stock Exchange.
In tw en ty years, its charter ran out, and the first panic.
State banks flourished because o f meager money facili­
ties and stabilized w ealth conditions.
These issued paper curren cy, but had no backing save
the stocks o f the banks and were often unstable. They
were banks o f issue, m eaning they issued demand notes,
sometimes w ithout restriction. Then the gold discovered
in C alifornia began to stabilize the paper media, and for a
time banking flourished. Bank paper became surer in
paym ent. T hen the W ar between the States. Money
again becam e scarce, and the need great.
D u rin g the C ivil W ar the national treasury was bank­
rupt. G old and silver disappeared. T h at was the Fear
Period. It was under these conditions Lincoln issued the
fam ous "green b ack” . The result was gold and silver came
back. A lso was born a new plan o f banking. Its object
being to hold and m aintain bond issues.
T herefore, to secure a means o f bond sale, the money
interests m anipulated and had the Congress o f the United
States pass the N ational Banking A c t in 18 6 3. Then the
most im portant m oney question o f the C ivil W ar was
m oney fo r the m aintenance o f armies in actual combat.
It was not a tim e fo r clear thinking. So this tremendous
task was le ft to selfish interests. T h ey fastened the plan
o f floating bond issues. These institutions seemingly bur­
dened themselves w ith a tremendous duty, to fasten na-
m
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 403
tional banks upon an already heavily burdened nation.
So the N ational Bank A ct. T h ey had to subscribe for
bonds to attain a charter; that seemed patriotic, but there
was in the act a "jo k er” . It gave 9 / 10 o f the bond value
in currency.
T h at is, the bonds gave the basis o f the N ational Bank
currency, w hich has free 90% o f the bond purchased,
or $100,000, giving $90,000 in currency.
It is a strange fact, there never has been (in all the
travail o f governm ent borrow ing) a realization o f the
tremendous value o f w ork, and the practicability o f it
being the basis o f m oney circulated to just p ay m an for
his labor. H e w ants no more. M ake w ork intrinsic.
P ay puts m oney into circulation, and it also is intrinsic
for the w ork is finished.
Because o f the w ar and debts to individuals, and to
soldiers in the Revolution, m oney was borrowed. The
governm ent’s first bonds, issued to care for debts and the
plan became traditional, and acceptable, w ithout thought.
T o finance construction, building and perfection o f the
offices o f the governm ent, and at last, to create credits,
the plan has been resorted to in every em ergency. It is
now common.
Borrow ing meant bonds in w hich there was interest.
A nation born o f tribulation and sorrow, w ent into the
tribulation o f borrow ing that has wrecked and destroyed
every civilization o f the past.
It is money as a tribute, levied upon the work and prod-
tict of the nation. Money that neither spins nor weaves.
It is a shame the nation did not hear the words o f the
great Charles Colingsworth Pinckney: "M illions for the
defense; but not a cent for tribute” .
W hat a nation, how resourceful its record from its birth
to the present, yet has not, nor does not, give w ork an
intrinsic value by stable p ay and issue a free currency
therefor. A currency that has in it vitality, because o f
404 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
intrinsic w orth , in w ork w age equal to five dollars in
every five dollar bill.
It has been one o f mass population overcoming diffi­
culties, o f distribution and exchange, because of no home
value to w ork.
M oney has run through labor and w age; unity and
peace. W ealth and the distribution o f it. Power and its
control, w ith out stability until now its very basis of equity
is questioned in an exchange or media through which
runs fear that hides currency, know ing all the time, all
o f the people m ust live and have their being, and must
work. Work to create, and earn a livelihood.
M oney can be made vital by a stable wage universally
accepted and issued cu rren cy to p ay fo r it.
Two things seem to be wrong. One is the practice of
paying interest by the government zipon its own product:
i.e., in making bond issues necessary to money circulation.
The second is in allowing interest to be charged for the
media by any one. No matter who and in having laws
for compulsory collection of unfust tribute.
A nother practice is speculation in profits. It is unjust
fo r the speculative effo rts o f a fe w men have fastened a
p ro fit o f interest upon the media, in no wise representing
labor or product.
Thus the media becomes sick, unstable, and unsafe as a
measure of value.
T h e media m ust be made stable.
A braham Lincoln dem onstrated the stability and power
o f m oney when free from tribute and interest.
H is greenback, issued in the throes o f the C ivil War,
before the N ational Bank A ct, and as a governm ent prom­
ise to pay, or representation o f pay fo r w ork already done,
w ithout restrictive clauses, stabilized the finance o f the
governm ent and brought both gold and silver from their
hiding. N ational confidence did that.
The "greenback” determined "The faith of government
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 405
is supreme, and media issue, when w ithout restrictions, is
as strong as the governm ent” . Still after this, bonds con­
tinued to be sold. The plan has become traditional, heavy
and acceptable in com m on practice.
The N ational Bank plan is a delegated privilege includ­
ing bond issue that is the basis o f paper cu rren cy o f the
banks. These are based upon bonds bought from the
G overnm ent and then surrendered to the G overnm ent to
get 90% in currency, while the bonds draw their inter­
est, and w ithout taxation.
The plan is one justified b y the pow er o f m oney to
m ake m oney and so is easily converted into fear and
panic when it ceases to have pow er to control when "cra z y
fear” enters into speculative losses.
There w ould be no fear w ith M oney the Province o f
the G overnm ent in fact issuing its ow n curren cy upon
the basis o f farm product and a lim ited basic wage scale
in w hich there would be no scarcity and therefore no
fear.
The value would be in the m oney itself and the creative
power o f individuals, instead o f m oney pow er to create.
V alue being fixed there would be no panics, no depres­
sions and no lack o f w ork. The present system fails be­
cause w ork and product are not a part in currency and so
this fundam ental basic value, is left out to give speculative
value to the most sacred relationship o f man. "T h a t o f
the laborer being w orthy o f his hire.”
It w ould give his product whether o f the soil or in the
trades a something, that being honest in e ffo rt would give
the asking believing, an answer to w hat is wanted.
Food, raim ent and shelter are always the basis o f ask­
ing. A nd these through a soil and m anual labor basis
w ill be in abundance.
N o time has the earth denied and no time has w ork
failed. It is the hindering media o f notes going through
the borning process o f being labor valued. They have
406 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
not paid for labor or product, and the promise is yet to
be fu lfilled .
T h ey m ay p ay fo r frozen assets, on paper that has
ceased to fu n ction , such as stocks and bonds; but that
w ill not give to labor or product a single cent. It will
not rem ake m anhood; nor change the indigent into up­
right citizenship.
It w ill not start industry.
It fails, fo r it only relieves one set o f creditors, to create
another. I f these notes were labor paying and producing
o f value from the soil then there w ould be intrinsic
value.
T hen there w ould be w ork fo r th irty m illion people.
T hen it w ould not m atter about the frozen assets of rail­
roads or other special interests, whose paper had lost earn­
ing pow er. T he nation w ould be prosperous, for the
"u n k n o w n w orker” w ould have a com petence 5n the
m oney value com ing from every d ay’s w ork.
T he rem edy is in legislation returning borrowed privi­
lege, in fundam entals o f righting the basis of the -media.
R igh tin g conditions is going from the individual up.
G ive him his right place in the finances o f the nation as
the creator o f w ealth and basic principles o f the media,
and all other things shall adjust themselves.
W o rk is som ething to feel, and see.
It is a tangible asset, and stills fear in the heart of the
doubtful.
It gives security to foreign relationships, but does not
and should not act as a media, save as a balancing power.
T he media should be, and o f a right ought to be, a
"to ken o f w ork done” . This is a universal value and ap­
plies to all men.
Business stagnates when there is not enough m oney to
carry on. Enterprise is stopped and depressions follow.
T h e cure is a stable media every one can have, b y work.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 407
W ork that is alw ays attainable, and all people m ust enter
into.
D o not be deceived by outside and varyin g excuses.
Look the problem straight in the face, and pronounce the
m oney system sick. It needs a real rem edy. The remedy
is work put into money.
A media based upon com m on labor w ill do that when
labor is made the law of wealth and of values. It has
been alw ays in actual practice, so w h y not in the media?
Take aw ay special privilege and special interest, and
give it free and unafraid to all the people fo r w ork fin ­
ished on the basis o f five dollars a day. Rem em ber re­
stricted interest keeps m oney scarce.
T ake aw ay the burden o f the circulating media and
restore it free and unafraid, and there w ill be no hard
times, no depression, no starving, no indigent.
There w ill be the "K in gd om o f H eaven upon earth w ith
every man pressing into it.”
Rem em ber, said the Pilgrim , M oney m ust have an in­
trinsic value. The product o f the earth that has been pro­
duced by "th e sweat of m an’s face,” does that. For w ork
has been put into every dollar.
I AMI
C h a pter X L I
M A N ’S W O R K
The Nation’s Wealth. Its Basis in Fact
The nation’s w ealth is m ore than m oney. Money is
m erely the exchange used, or the confidence that enters
into the exchange o f w ealth; w hether the wealth is per­
sonal or general.
W ealth represents more than m oney fo r it is the result
o f energy and creative e ffo rt upon the basis o f work and
product.
In the beginning, N e w England was settled by men
and wom en who w anted above everything else religious
freedom . T h ey left homes o f com fort in order to attain
freedom .
Because o f conscience they settled on the shores of the
A tlan tic and began to subdue the forest, and to establish
farm s. T o create a new and better condition o f liveli­
hood. T h eir’s was not a w ealth o f money, but o f doing.
Farm s are productive in that they are close to nature
and produce from soil and grow th, the food, clothing and
shelter o f the fam ily. It was from this beginning our
nation started.
W ith farm labor, was w ork and craftsm anship, enter­
ing in the creation o f things to make life more com fort-
ble. So N e w England not only had its farm s and small
shops, or the beginning o f m anufacture but the energy
o f hardy m an power. These shops hired surplus labor of
the farm and started industrial enterprise.
[ 4 0 8 ]
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 4 0 9
The history o f the early settlers o f the U nited States
proves w ork to be the basis o f wealth. This basis in ­
sures vocations o f every kind, because "w a n t” demands
a more finished product, in everything. O n ly trained
w ork can give this condition. Trained w ork, alw ays be­
gins w ith m anual labor and farm labor is the basis o f
m anual w ork.
The history o f the U nited States is one o f progress in
the crafts and trades w ith the farm alw ays in the b ack­
ground, to sustain and m aintain food.
A s farm s m ultiplied, civilization turned tow ard new
lands and fields to conquer, so the grow th was constantly
turned tow ard the W est, where civilization was yet in
the borning.
The pioneer carried no m oney or little, but he did carry
tools o f w ork. H e did produce. H e instilled in national
conscience the idea o f w ork being most honorable.
Farm s are not money, but w ork and places o f w ork in
reclaim ing the soil. So are the basis o f wealth.
There is valuation in reclaim ing soil, based upon fe r­
tility, associated environm ent and location. The surplus
product m ay be money. But the farm remains a creation
o f labor, m eaning wealth.
So im provem ents are measured by m oney value, or the
amount o f m oney it would take to change ownership. Im ­
provem ents fo r the most part, were created w ith but little
money. The great part is, and has alw ays been, w ork.
Farm land, nevertheless, is the basis o f national wealth.
It is well said, " as the farmer fares, so does the nation
Farm lands enhance in value as the farm s are worked by
the tillers o f the soil, who own them. It is ownership that
is intrinsic and sustaining.
So the grow th o f tenantry or rented lands, decrease
land value as tenantry increases, because all tillers o f the
soil lose independence, in proportion as the owner loses
the farm or it becomes tenant possessed, or unduly bur-
410 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
dened w ith debt. M en leave the farm always to better
social conditions, or to secure greater liberty in the pur­
suit o f happiness. T h ey take the avenue o f work with
them , and the farm is left to die, or have a long sickness;
only cured when another free holder takes up the task of
reclam ation.
A t the beginning o f the present civilization of com­
m erce, those leaving the farm fo r the city and day wage
had this home to fall back upon, and therefore when labor
stopped, there was no great hardship, fo r the farm "al­
w ays gave a livin g” , and they returned. Still men left
the farm because of greater wage possibilities in cities and
factories, stores and public works.
T he basis has changed. There is no longer the farm to
return to. M an m ust stand or fall b y his labor, or lack
o f it, fo r civilization has changed into big business inter­
ests, where labor and product are both controlled by arbi­
trary means. The basis o f w ealth has surrendered to fic­
titious values. N o such state could exist w ith farm prod­
uct o f fixed value, instead o f restricting farm product.
A t one tim e the retired farm er, the doctor, lawyer, and
professor, banker, and preacher, were the bulw arks of the
com m unity. K in d ly men, who had the interest of all at
heart. T h ey advised and helped. T h ey were the money
earners and prom oters o f new interests and industries.
T he banker knew and sym pathized w ith the wants and
m oney needs o f his neighbors. H e supplied them and
was a stalw art in the com m unity.
A kindly, good m an; a business and executive man. One
who could be relied upon in times o f need. A substantial
citizen, neighbor and friend. One who helped as he ad­
vised. H e it was who instituted new business and enter­
prise, and kept the neighborhood prosperous and stable.
H e belonged to the farm ing com m unity and town. He,
too, m igrated to the city, and became more and more in­
terested in bigger enterprises. Still he had personal con-
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 411
trol and could help in the city as he did in the home tow n.
Then his vocation passed. Big business swallowed the
heart o f the com m unity banker. Sym pathy died as o r­
ganized socialistic greed became the means o f trust com­
binations.
Small capital, like small business, had to combine or die.
Business and enterprise, found it necessary to combine,
to grow big. This changed personality.
It was for the purpose o f stopping overhead, to lim it
com petition, and so the small industries o f the nation, in­
cluding the banks, began to concentrate. The banker
thus lost his personal power and love relationship. In its
stead was institution head, and banking w ithout personal
contacts that took the place o f frien d ly association. It
was a tremendous change, and not good fo r the common
people. Three things were lost: work, service and sym­
pathy.
H ow big an enterprise can grow w ithout being top
heavy, no one knows. H ow ever, nations have had their
rise and fall through gigantic strides o f wealth; leaving
great buildings as monuments.
The earth seems to have been satisfied w ith some m am ­
moth animals o f the reptillian age, for there are no evi­
dences o f huge creations since. Still the earth m ay be
w rong and big business, w ith its skyscraping buildings,
right.
M an’s statue seems to be limited and also all other
grow th. Still man builded the pyram ids; the Parthenon
and Coliseum. T hey are still in evidence. The builders
are gone. H e m ay be building now, as they did in the
past. N obody knows.
It m ay be so w ith big business. It is evident the pres­
ent state o f society is not satisfied w ith it as it is. A p p ar­
ent top heavy wealth in no w ay helps the burden bearers
underneath. Still big business builds. Its plan has been
and is to enlarge and control.
A
412 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
Everyw h ere com m ercialism has taken possession of la­
bor, and the product o f it, and labor m ust suffer both
in wages and continuousness. Labor is now suffering for
lack o f w ork. It is the same labor, and energy, but pay
has stopped. Stoppage o f pay creates slaves, and slaves
are not wealth.
Labor m ust have a job, and continuity. Five dollars a
day and product price fix in g w ill give just that. A job
and contentm ent. It m ust alw ays be available and so in­
stituted by governm ent m andate. The nation has jobs.
Everyw here, except the farm (and these have changed
in ownership until no great percentage are owned and
operated by the ow ner) there is lack o f labor. There, the
product very often w ill not sustain w ork, so the farmer
is poor indeed. H e m ust have relief.
Little business has com bined until we have gigantic
monopolies. M onopolies in utilities, in industrials and in
rails.
The coun try has been spanned from coast to coast with
steel. It has been criss-crossed by roads and better roads,
givin g increased w ealth and increased pow er to the nation.
The age has even changed from a pastoral one, and one
o f horse and buggy, to one of automobiles and airplanes.
The autom obile is one o f the greatest o f all changes,
fo r w ith it comes an installment plan of part payments,
and ready monthly payments. A sure plan o f concentrat­
ing m oney. A fatal one when w ork is scarce or stops.
These paym ents have inflicted the nation and its peo­
ple w ith debt— interest bearing debt; harder to meet as
wages get less and pay poorer until the effect is to rob
the laborer o f his lu xu ry and bring the burden back to its
source.
When over production, or the unity of labor, ceases;
when speculation runs amuck of false value. When cur­
rency is found lacking in essentials, then a panic without
work, and starvation everywhere is to be expected.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 413
A panic that touches labor, industry and every avenue
of m oney m aking is alw ays the result o f scarcity o f the
media. Enterprise cannot go on w ithout pay. W hen pay
stops purchasing pow er ceases, and people begin an u n ­
equal figh t to live. The earth is still producing. W ork
is still evident, but the wage day and wage hour have
ceased. Then the lack o f the fundam ental in food, cloth­
ing and shelter, makes m an desperate.
N o m oney and no wages in a land o f plenty: God save
the poor, fo r there can be no hope w ithout w ork and an
equitable pay. Five dollars a day will do that.
Long ago, H orace G reely said to the young man to go
W est and grow up in the country. T h at is w hat he did
in the early 70 ’s, to the first o f the century. But now
there is no west, north, south, or east. Locom otion has
made all alike. So w ork m ust be universal, and every­
where.
The fields, mines, rivers, forests: every avenue o f wealth
has been exploited, combed and controlled. Farm s stretch
from coast to coast, and there are universal supplies of
foodstuffs. A nd no m arket fo r them, because w ork has
stopped— w ork that should be the life blood o f the media
o f exchange.
A population o f one hundred and th irty million people
finds itself w ithout resources or power to provide food,
clothing and shelter to the great portion of the popula­
tion.
T w elve million people are w ithout w ork and the pros­
pect of substance. (The A m erican Federation o f Labor
gives this, as twelve million out of work.) C h arity has
been vigorously helping, but its pow er is limited. There
are too few o f the hundred th irty million who have sur­
plus to give.
So the prospect in the fu tu re is not fraught w ith any
great hope.
414 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
Industry has sw ept the cou n try from coast to coast,
taken up the wide places, and the broad spaces, and in­
dustry has com bined until we have a gigantic concentra­
tion o f its pow er. In d u stry is selfish, and there is no
place fo r w ork in it w ithout p rofit. Depression kills prof­
it, so no w ork.
B anking interests have concentrated until a few banks
ow n or control almost the entire w ealth o f the country.
The small tow n banker has no place, fo r this place of
honor has been sw ept aw ay. H e has not the power, he,
at one tim e had; his personality has been lost.
H e, too, like the laborer, small business and professional
m an has surrendered liberty and the pursuit o f happiness
to com bination w ithout confidence or conscience.
So the whole cou n try is facin g a serious and complicated
position because the pow er or media o f exchange has been
w ithdraw n from a free exercise o f its duty.
Everyw h ere there is le ft the torture, unrest, unhappi­
ness and p overty that means death to our vaunted freedom
and our glorious inheritance, if special privilege and inter­
est are not stopped.
W ealth we have in abundance.
N ever in the history o f the w orld has there been such
a w on derful co u n try; such tremendous development in
continuous intrinsic wealth. N ever in the history of the
w orld has there ever been such a lack o f media in circu­
lation. A circulation if balanced upon the intrinsic worth
o f five dollars a day fo r wage w ould m ake the whole na­
tion blossom in the vigor and hope and wealth and youth.
T he rem edy is in a media o f exchange that cannot and
m ust not be controlled by the few . It m ust be a work
exchange, w ith w ork alw ays in abundance, and labor
wage stable.
It m ust be intrinsic. It m ust be a value always the
same.
It m ust be ever continuous and producing.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 41S
Such a media is found in labor— com m on labor. Labor
and an honest hour’s w ork.
Thus the Prophet and the Pilgrim speaks to M e— o f our
great economic problem , and the " I A M ” says: A sk of
the Eternal and it w ill be given.
I A M I
C h a pter X L II
R E A L V A L U E
Work— and Wage— the Basis of All Economic Growth
Lim itation o f the circulatin g media and scarcity in
times o f universal need has alw ays been the curse of the
w orld, fo r it lim its labor because o f no capital to pay.
Scarcity has been its basis in greed fastening arbitrary
burdens upon labor, o f being subject to m oney instead
o f its creator. Thus labor that should be free is bound in
poverty.
The love o f m oney thus becomes "th e root o f all evil” .
It incites w ars, m urders, arson, and all crime. It is arbi­
trary, unjust and cruel.
This w ould not be, if m oney was free and universal
as a media. It w ould be, if labor was the basis of
m oney.
It can be made free, by accepting confidence and faith
in labor as a basis, and then applying this faith and confi­
dence in actual practice.
The basis o f all exchange is product plus cost o f pro­
duction. N o one denies this postulate as a just premise.
Cost o f production is w ork.
W ork in creating, w ork in transporting, w ork in ex­
change.
W ork is the p rim ary basis o f wealth, because it creates.
W ork is determ ined in value by the wage man re­
ceives.
W age is the value m an puts on his time in producing
and should be the am ount the individual, com m unity,
[416]
TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET AN D ME 417
county, state and nation deems enough to insure liberty
and happiness to the wage earner.
W age m ust be based upon m anual labor. W hat the
com mon laborer can support a fam ily o f five upon in
any one day in com fort and lu xu ry equal to civilization’s
standard.
Thus w ork is more than individual reckoning, fo r it
also is a national problem . It must be continuous, and
there m ust be a just com pensation, equal in value to all
the people.
M oney being the measure o f value between labor and
all productiveness; the media should have an arbitrary
fixedness based upon something o f universal need. T hat
something is m anual labor.
There is no doubt the media must be stabilized and made
secure, and free from counterfeit and im itation. So there
is no reason to change the form now com mon, only to
add an intrinsic and universal needed standard thereto, and
a universal wage, w ith continuousness o f em ploym ent.
T h at is, m ake all expressions o f pay universal; all units,
w ith intrinsic value o f w ork in every five dollars.
The need is to give elasticity, and make o f it an ex-
pressor o f value, and not value within itself. T hat is:
put value in m oney by w ork.
M oney being the expression o f wealth created by labor,
the plan is to make currency flexible enough to meet the
needs of civilization w ith universally accepted intrinsic
value.
A n y plan that allows hoarding, or segregating, into the
hands o f the few , is not justifiable, or acceptable, because
hiding binds unjust burdens upon the poor, and takes
from them even that w hich they have. It thus stops cir­
culation o f media and life in abundance.
So there must not be fictitious value placed upon the
limitations o f basic media. Its value must be in use in
circulating.
418 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
A n y lim itation, if fixed , should be upon man power
and his ability to produce from the earth, or in the trades,
vocations, professions, or in inventive science, discovery or
com m on utilities, the things the rest o f the world wants.
This man power is in daily wage, and should be uni­
versally acceptable to all of workable age.
Inasm uch as product is the basis o f w ealth, daily wage
should be faith and confidence behind the money currency
o f the country.
Fixedness o f w age is necessary. It should be upon the
basis o f freedom and the pursuit o f happiness. A wage
that w ill insure to all people, the right to freedom.
Freedom , should be understood, as that something that
gives equal chance to labor, recreation, and rest, in any
and every day. The day should be thus divided.
O ne m an’s liberty ceases where another’s begins.
L ib erty should be safe guarded. It can be so, by mak­
ing o f m an’s creative period a w ork period, for a stated
w age w herein liberty and the pursuit o f happiness will
be the measure o f wage guarantee. That guarantee is
hereby stated as a fixed wage of five dollars for every day
of six hours, and a fixed product price.
N o one know s w h y gold and silver are the basis of the
w orld ’s m oney supply, or valuation; save they are precious
metals, do not corrode or rust, and have a durable exist­
ence in that they are tough and stand wear well.
If, however, they become the sole means o f exchange,
the desirability would cease, fo r the w earing principle
w ould be so great there w ould be universal discredit for
the stam p value.
Stam p value is w hat the governm ent places upon them
as o f w orth. The dollar, ten or tw enty dollar gold coins
are stam ped value. G old is not practical as a circulating
media. So it is the fiat o f paper, based upon gold that
the w orld depends upon for pay.
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 419
Fiat is faith and a guaranteed conviction the world will
pay. It is faith w ithin the media, when gold is the basis,
but lacks intrinsic value.
M an is com manded to earn his living by the sweat of his
brow. H e w ants to do so, in any honorable w ork, that
produces substance and therefore is intrinsic.
T h at was the decree o f his fall, from the Garden of
Eden, or the Kingdom o f H eaven. H e must earn his
living by work.
Therefore, all men w ant a just wage and an equal op­
portunity to w ork.
W ork m ust be continuous.
It should be universal for every able bodied individual.
It should have the governm ent mandate and become
autocratic as law , and apply to all people, without regard
to caste or race and give a good and sufficient livelihood.
Thus w ork and wage should become the basis o f valua­
tion, and not the media, the valuer of w ork, as the world
practices today. W hen value is in m oney man must wait
fo r ready m oney to w ork. It should be the other w ay
around; w ith w ork always giving value to money.
The basis o f the wage must be acceptable and capable
o f giving freedom and the pursuit o f happiness.
Five dollars a day is a basic figure to give all mankind
an equal chance in the pursuit of happiness does just that.
The days to be counted as in a fu ll calendar year w ith
vacation period allotted to fu ll time workers.
The days o f actual work to be according to production
and need, with all kinds o f w ork universally distributed
w ithout discrimination.
Individual voluntary idleness to be w ithout pay.
A ll labor saving machines or devices to be universal in
use, and for the benefit o f the wage earner, but in no w ay
to interfere with the day wage.
Therefore, all labor saving m achinery should shorten
the hours o f the week and day, not lessen the wage.
420 TH E PILGRIM, PROPHET A N D ME
O f course, produce m ust m aintain a p arity with wage,
and so there should be m andatory laws regulating food
values and profits.
There m ay be fluctuations o f stated foods according to
fitness, but not enough to change or alter the media of
exchange.
U pon a five dollar a day basis, foods as now used can
be produced and sold at a norm al m arket value; and give
to the producer a w age equal to the wage worker plus a
norm al profit.
P ro fit there m ust be, to insure against food loss, by
rot or spoilage. W ith food values as now follow s:
Wheat at $1.00 per bushel. Corn at $0c per bushel.
Potatoes at 60c per bushel. Cotton at 12c per pound, can
be maintained at that price with the five dollar a day
basis, giving the farmer a normal profit.
Inasm uch as the basis o f free circulating media is a
five dollar a day wage, there follow s advance from this
because o f skill and experience, added pay for efficiency
and skill. Skill and efficien cy w ill give an added circula­
tion and greater happiness to the mass.
Increased wage possibilities give individual ambition in­
centive.
T o insure equality, everyone should have the privilege
o f fittin g fo r greater responsibility and efficiency, but all
should center life ’s w ork on five dollars a day wage as a
basis.
Fitness should be the guide, and this regulated by exami­
nation, trial and experience.
It w ould be the same as school— an advance from grade
to grade by exam ination and passing in one below. All,
how ever, m ust start at the m anual labor grade.
A ll men have differen t gifts, but all have the one spirit.
It can also be said, all men fit in to some field o f common
labor. From this com m on basis there should be no hin-
THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME 421
drance to advances in the wage scale, save that o f in e ffi­
ciency and tim e allotm ent.
The exam ination tests should be according to physical
fitness, know ledge and executive ability.
Production m ay be in excess o f demand. Therefore,
when there is over production, exceeding tw o years sup­
ply, there should ensue a lessening o f the day hour, the
week day, and the am ount o f acreage in farm , and all
other avenues o f product quantity, w ithout abating the
continuance o f the wage scale, or price value.
This also applies to the vocation and advance grades;
always a lessening o f the day, week and year, to insure
uniform ity o f product used, but the day wage to be con­
tinuous.
There are now one hundred and th irty million people
in the U nited States, about th irty million families, and
double that o f workers. These figures are approxim ate
and for the purpose o f illustration. A ll these people are
entitled to live and live abundantly. So all should have
the privilege o f w ork.
Five dollars a day, for all o f workable age from 21 to
65, w ith an accrued pension therefrom , should have this
wage w ithout skip or break, to make practical abundant
living.
It w ill give abundance, health and happiness.
It is the only basis o f wealth that is never fictitious.
It makes the circulating media free as an exchange be­
tween that which is produced and consumed.
A n y other valuation o f the media is spurious and easily
changed, according to control and selfish interest.
A universal wage cannot be controlled by the few ;
therefore, this media will never be inflated or deflated.
The dollar will always have 10 0 % valuation because it
always has the same work basis.
W hile there is need to change the present system or plan
o f currency, as to issue; the gold dollar can have the same
422 THE PILGRIM, PROPHET AND ME
fineness and be used as a basis o f credit. (25.8 grns., 900
fine to the dollar) or Roosevelt’s revaluation.
It does not need to be coined or circulated, but to re­
m ain in the nation’s treasury as a glittering security, for
those who doubt.
T he need is to conform to the five dollars a day basis
and to realize in this is the wealth of the nation.
W ork being the basis o f wage and wealth the result of
wage, all people w ill give in the w ealth o f abundance, be­
cause o f universality o f w ork.
There should ensue contentm ent and peace. A love
that never faileth, and u n ity am ong the people.
The governm ent should supply the w ork necessary by
public im provem ent and su fficien t to give employment
to the idle. It can be done, by building roads across the
continent.
There can be no trouble about the w ork.
A s I recorded these things, I asked the Pilgrim to tell
me more. H e answered: "T h ere is no more. This is the
basis o f 'w orld w ealth’. A real intrinsic basis and there is
no m ore.”
T o be continued in the "R O U G H H E W N R O A D ”
as the Second V olum e o f the " I A M ” series. This Volume
is finished.
T H E E N D .
The Fealy Books
These books are shelf w orn and consist o f the early
works o f D r. Fealy. A nd because they are shelf w orn but
complete are offered at h alf price.
Planes o f V ibration__________________________________ $1.50
Prim ary Principles___________________________________ 2.00
M ind P o w ers_________________________________________ 2.00
Jesus o f N azareth _____________________________________ 1-50
Breath _______________________________________________ 1-50
S u ccess_______________________________________________ A 0
Paper ______________________________________________ -25
Pilgrim , etc__________________________________________ 3.00
P A M P H L E T S
Em m aculate Conception_____________________________ .10
Four K eys____________________________________________ .10
M y Religion__________________________________________ .10
Patanjalis A p h (B y F e a ly )------------------------------------- .30
Concentration Cards, set_____________________________ .50
Breath Practices Charts______________________________ .50
V italization C h art___________________________________ .50
Log Book, no discount_______________________________ 2.00
Books in Mms. or in Preparation—
Rough H ew n Road_____________________________ 3.00
Com panion to the Pilgrim , and next to be published—
The M aster Prophet_____________________________ 2.75
The M an E very One K now s_________________________ 2.00
Altruriaiai Society,
Birm ingh am , A la .
