{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__doreal___guide_for_the_metaphysical_healer.pdf","mytitle":"Guide For The Metaphysical Healer","mylang":"de"}
-;1,'
..... }_ ..
--z..._,
_:.7
---_;
,_ ...
-~$~c:- ';
l
..,.;
--
- ~
,z
--~
--~#
,___"_.'
,_
---
'' (
--~-~ ' '
-1
r ,_....
_/''
I
\•
._
' - t
~I ~
. ,,.,
/
, .r -
'/
-.II t
I
/ <
j ,,,
',
,I
I,
1(
.) (,i
Q5 u~
I• \ ..,./
A
G·u, o E
F-oR THE
METAPHYSICAL-
HEALER
BY
DR.M. Do~EAL
Fourth Edition
copyright 1938
BROTHERHOOD
OF THEWHITETEMPLE, INC.
SEDALIA, COLORADO
\--~-
·......
~ --
_..,.._
:·"'-,
·.-. - s',.;,
J'..T,:,.. -,·•::
....
_,
I
1···
POLAR~TIES
OF THE HU.MAN
BODY
In beginning this book on ·Healing
we are going to discuss the different
kinds of sickness and disease,· and the
first two parts·9t this course will con·
sist mostly ·or examples,eic. All through
this course I w:111 g! ve methees for th~
diagnosis of the vari<.nlS aspE>cts of sick.;:
ness and disease. One of the mo3t impor-...
tant things that the average metaphysical
healer fails to take into consideration
is the particular kind of disease that
afflicts the patient. They seem to think
that one kind of-treatment will do for
all.
I know that Spiritual Healing will
reach people in a certain stage of de-
velopment, but the average person has to
be reached otherwise. befor·e ·response to
spiritual treatment is possible. We con-
sider sickness and disease as manifest~
ing on four different planes; spiritual.,.
mental, psychic, and physical~ In diag-
nosing causes we find that many times a
physical 111 has a mental, or psychic,
or spiritual cause; a mental 111,a spiP-
itual -or psychic cause. If we merely
work to alleviate the symptom, we may
banish that for a time, bt:t if the cause
is allowed to rGmain the same, or another
symptom will appear. Ordinarily, some-
thing worse than that you have treated
returns, because only the symptom has
been touched. If a person comes to me
and says, "I have heart trouble," and I
- 5 -
examine them and find heart trouble, I
relieve that symptom; but if they go
away and I ao nothing more, they come
back to me, or somebody else in a little
while with something worse.
To my mind, there is no necessity
for bodily ills whatsoever. Sickness is
an illusion, but not in the sense that
Christian Science and some other schools
teach, for this is based on erroneous
logic. I know that if I cut my hand,
there is a wound and I do not say that
the cut is an illusion; but what I do
say is an illusion, is the belief that
sickness and illness are necessary evils
of humanity. There is not one bit of
necessity for one human being to ever
have an ache or pain, if they learn how
to master the functions of their ownbody.
Every human body has two polarities;
the left side is negative, the rig;ht
side is positive; the lower half of the
body is negative, the upper half positive
in relationship to each other. we have
three separate angles and directions that
we divide the polarity of the body into.
Starting at the middle of the right
shoulder, we divide straight across it,
~lanting. The head is all positive as
..,,,·related to this angle. In dividing it
in two., top to bottom, one side is nega- ,.,
tive and the other side positive; that
is, in polarity. It is because the right
s:t,ue from the shoulder aown is positive,
~hat all magnetic treatments are directed
-~.',through the right hand. For the same
/. reason, if we begin to take on some of
6 -
the sy:nptoms of the inoiviaual we are
treating, we get rid of them through the
left side of the body.
I am going to show you various, ways
of diagnosing a case. You can diagnose
a case in several ways metaphysically,
the easiest being through a certain form
of mental relaxation; a closing off of
the right,. positive side, and opening
the negative side to receive the im--
pression.
A person will often come to you and
say that they have such and such a sick-
ness. What they think is the matter is
not always the matter. You might treat
that symptom and not get very good re-
sults.
It is very important in all Healing
to be able to diagnose the case and ~ind
out which plane you have to work on.
When a person comes to me with phys-
ical ailments, the first thing to do .is.
to relieve the physical symptoms; but
the hardest job the healer has, is to
get at the cause and eliminate that, as
well as the symptoms.
A great deal of the sickness of the
body is aue primarily to an: unbalanced
condition of the magnetic polarity of the
body. The ancient occultists knew that\
the balancing of the polarities of the
boay, so that the magnetic currents would
sweep through unobstructed, was important
for mental, physical, and spiritual heal-
- 7 -
ing., which consisted in shifting of the
actual map;netic power · or the· Cosmos and
allowing it to now free and unobstructed.
In the Kabbala., Sclrlmeon Ben Joachai.
says., "Because I have · kept these · fasts
all my days., I no longer have to fast;
now I can feast." He had attained that
perfect balance of the physical body., and
had a perfect instrument for his mind anr1
soul to work through. The days set aside
for the ancient Sabbath were actually for
polarization., for the balancing of the
body so that the God within could func-
tion in balance. !twas the one day out
of seven set aside for the p~rpose of
putting the body in harmony with the cos-
mic Force. The person who is going to
learn Healing should set aside an hour
each week for the power and force and
en~rgy of the Cosmos to flow through in
perfect balance.,· so that they not only
have enough magnetic· force to balance
their own body., but enough reserve ·so
that they can help others. Jesus had
such a ba·lanced condition of polarity in
His own physical body that ·He could cre-
ate the same condition at least tempo-
rarily., in another person. Jesus said,
"I go to show you the way, I go to pre -
pare a place for you, after this manner
shall ye follow me." He did not mean
follow Him phys-ically but to follow the
method that He had ta~ht so that those
whom He had taught could keep a condi-
tion of perfect., balanced polarity.
What is sin? The·re is only ·one sin.,
the sin or unbalance, of_ lack of harmony
with the law of God. When this harmony
- 8 -
is. a'!;taj.ned., .·hold, 1~, ke~p- yo:ur 9.on-
sctousJ1ess, 'm!n'.d/ _~nd body in .this cop-
d1t1pn·., ThO~.e Who d.<l
·afe.aple ..to pass'on
_tohlghe~r _planes-
of, cons·c,iousness. ·· ··
. _ When the· ·a1s·c1j,1~s_
·came to Jesus
~nd 1;1aid.,"Her~ 1$: a·man that· you do not
know., that is _cast:f.ng out_ devils· ip io\lr
name.'' Jesua ·answered,. "Let him alone,
he. _1~.doing g09d. '-',' S9me ,pe_ople hqV~ tp.e
idea that they __
can ~et·_fitr idea or_ an·as ..;.
pee t of truth' ,is.
ide, ' put' ,a fenc~~ a.ro:unq
,it, anddJay.,. "Thi~·-·truth bel:ongs~ to' me.''
J¢~us . was l;>1g _ei}Qllgb .. tcf ·. ~a.i:tze. j;q~t
ttuth was not hts alo'tl.Ef; but tnat it":be ~
longed t.q anyorte,:
wno·:_·
w~~ able. ' to tak,e
it., and use -:tt. -'Ii;; is -too bad "that ~onie
people these days ·cannot take the ' saine
~ttJtua_e.
· Usually., the reason -_that. :teac}\ers
and doctors. requ:f,re ·such_ ~. iong ...
· pe'r_iod
of tirhe to :heal. their patients and some-
times· do not heal 'them,. is bec'aus,e there'
is some' loss of monetary profit to them.
I .think .t'tiat u,nder certatn _COndit16nS.,
the heea 'of a physician' is indispensfb'le .-
. ' . . .
, t hacf -a girl come -to:Ifiewit}). what
she had been'told was s'toinach urc-ers·.
Upon diagnosis, I· found- the physical
cause in _
the append.ix. She had nothing
whatever ' the ·matter with her . s'tom'.actf;
Her case had .been errone,ouerly·di-agnoseq
by a physician'/ who' should hav:a'known
better; When='i :tol<f he·r What her'-'trouble
was, she ·could -n'ot ··believe- me:.,·; for s'he
had only· bee-ti able to_·keep milk on her
stomach 'for nine mon:t_hs. The reas_on fo,_r
-,9 -
t.his was· that her· _append1x was so rottert.,
that i't was· secretin!Z toxins into her
system., which she was unable to· throw
off. It wa·s· so ta.r gone . that it . was
liable to burst at any moment. I advisen
her to ...
have it removed immediately. She
left for ho.me and a few days later wa.s
brought back in an ambulance; her appen-
dix had burst. After the ope:r;-atJon she
r-ound .her st om.a
ch trouble had disappe are a.
,,.I~ .. she had · come to me three or four
'.:···months earlier, I· could have · saved her
. 'th1:? .operation., but.: she had waited too
·· ione;; the~e ~as· n~thing to save. I a1ag-
.·..nos~d this· particular case through tak-
.. ing_ on the. qonQition·· in a.manner to be
shown later 1~ the book •. ·
. · We find that primarily, the cause
o·r-a. great deal of our physical sickness,
is ·:unbalance of the polarities of the
body. Nothing exists· in the material
world without the ex.istence of two polar-
ities., ~heref'ore we can reaJ.ize that the
body 1s· both positive. ano nagative., in
polar1 ty. . We know . that it is a law of
physics and chemistry that like attracts
unlike., there.fore the directing of the
magnetic force trom: .the right side should
be towa.ra the left ·,side of the bony of
the one··~c,w}).0:··~
to receive it. I use mag-
ne.tic treatme.nt for specific things, more
especially for illness connecte~ with
the nervous s.ystem., because tne magnetic
fqrce flows in part, along the nerve
paths. Ninety per cent of all the ner-
vous dise_ases are causeo by one of two
things., either the blocking of the neu-
rons, or by the lack of proper secretion
- 10 -
.from the .enaocrine ·or ductless glands.
Ninety-nine times out of· a hundred these
conaJtions are caused by lack of'mental
balance, that is, the mental balance in
relationship ·to the material worla. A
min<'! Which is not ·functioning p:roperly
through the body does not ··allow· proper
coora ina tion of a~l the various parts of
the nervous system. Then we find · that
so_mE\)where in the physical body there i's
a:reaction, and the reaction ·of that
part is conveyed back to the mind or
brain. If some thing happens to shut off
some function or· flow, then we say that
the magnetic force is blocked off, and
there . is ari ~balance upoh one side or
the other. We know that the human breath
comes through one nostril. If the mag-
netic force is properly balancea, an hour
from now you will find that it has shifted
to the other nostril. In the c6,mos
there is a certain fotm of etheric en~rgy
that comes in two forms, positive I and
negative. If there is an·over-balanbing
of one, then the physical body isj not
functioning as it shoula. ·we find 5t'Dme"."
times. that there will be a short ·pe~iod
when one will breathe through both ~os-
trils. A very good idea is to time ~~ur-
self and find out which nostril you, \are
breathing through;··· and an. hour and\ 1'1f-
teen m1nut.es · later, do the same th.i-qg.
If you are breathing.at eight· throµgh
the left nostril and at nine-fifteen
still through that nostril, yoµ must -~nut
that off and forcibly breathe thr1ugh
the right nostril. You must force \tile
right breath flow till ·such time as th~.
breath-takes on its normal change. \ \
- 11 -
\ I
\
\
\
~
t
.., QUESTION: -HOW should one breathe ,if
he has _sinus trouble?·: ANSWER:
· In thEft
case,. we. hav¢ to use anotner method. If
one· :has·a.nostril stoppe ~· up pe·rmanentJrY;,
araw.-.a ·aeep'"bre'atli. in, thr.ough the' mouth:.
One side ois ."the,.throat .wlll- feel cooler:.
The other," . the'. siae tha.t-_.
feels warmer,
is 'the side.: tnat the ; magne.f;!c flow ' is
coming .thr.ough. ,at . th~'. .time .. To:·shift,
hold, the· :Corresponding .noetri,1 ·_
.closed
wit~- the .-foret1nger f'or about _
three
seconds. . ' -
.. ·"~'ri.~a-t~~t:a_heaier_\.,ho 1s,putt1~
out a great._ d~-~1 of_ maim~t ic force :e verf
day._has to have _an over-balance. of pos·1...
tive! _ If I am.giving . ten treati;nents a
day, then I figure that. :t should-breathe
f·1fteen min\lte~- longer ~hrougli .the posi~
tive .. to.· -one .J}qur . l)ega,tive. It' _I· am
treating.<twenty patients a day, I take
an hour.and-a ,half. __
posit.ive against ,an
hour negative. I allow a minute and. a
half extra for each -magnetic treatment
that I give.; After I- i'inish a treafanent,
I will force 1the ·magnetic.-flow· _.
through
my·rtght nostril fo:r·abo~~ three.or four
minutes, then shift 1t back again to the
left; thus, I always have an_ abundance
of force.:r have given as many- as forty-
fl ve treatments a day,. and ordinarily
that would drain all magnetic force out
or me unless I increase the .positive,
magnetic flow. The healer above every-
thing· e-lse, .·:must always keep his ow1:1
physical body 1n goOd physical condition.
Thus,· we find,one of the-very necessary
things to -know · is· the balancing of _that
magnetic polarity· of the body. rt is a
- 12 -
.-···-
simple thing, easily controlled.
QUESTION: can you do 1t without
holding your nostril? ANSWER:Oh yes.
you c·an . do 1t by willing it.. I have
enough muscular control, so that I can
close one nostril., while I open the other
one. At :first· you will have to make a
conscious effort to do these things,·· but
after you ha-ve been using them. for awhile,
your subjective· consciousness will take
care of it . The first· thing to do is to
form a subconscious habit; and if we can
superimpose a ha.bit of absolute harmony
and coordination, for one of 1nharmony.,
that harmonious condition will manifest
itself in our consc~ous objective 11:fe.
Occas'ionally when I have not had time to
ao any specific rejuvenating of magnetic
force, I will do this: I take a aeep
breath, expand my solar plexus and will
with all the power of my mind, to draw
. . . . I
in the. magnetic force through my left\
hand. At the same time, I clinch my right\
hand, and by so doing, create a subcon..:. \
scious mental picture of holding, which
reacts on the magentic .flow, holding _·it
in. We have to direct the mind to ao
what we want it to ao. When we do that
automatically, our subconscious shuts off
all the releasing of force through the
right side of the body .
. Every person has · two tiny centers
in the brain, just above and behind the
ears;· two groups or areas of brain· cells
which control the subconscious or\auto-
matic balance of the magentic f'low .'.;That
is the reason that if we can surerimp?se
I .
- 13 - I
/
;
\,
the thought and condition of unbalance
:.-:,·
for one of balance, we will have a state
of balance and harmony. I have always
found that to get the mind into the habit
of aoing things as it shouln, I must
trick it. Close your eyes ana imagine
or visualize a carpenter's level as being
flat on your head, and will for the lit-
tle mass of liquid in the glass tube to
reach an absolute level. If it is lying
flat and level, it has a perfectly equal
surface. First let it flow any way it
wants to. I have an idea that first you
i;-1ill see the movement as little ocean
waves. What you want to no is to bring
these down to a smooth, level surface.
When we can get the mental image of the
level well formec'l, we try to pull it
backwards into the head. It will come to
a stop at the point where the group of
two brain cells are functioning, and the
level of liquid will either flow to one
siae or the other. These two centers
will rea~t upon the mind, and convey
their message through that symbol. After
experimenting and working with hunareas
of methcds, we finally hit on this one
as being the simplest. Most of the exer-
cises and things that I give, are the
result of many years of work and elimin-
ation. Mentally, you cannot force the
level to tilt in any direction except in
the one that it actually lies; for it is
controlled by the subconscious mind which
is stronger than any conscious faculty.
Magnetically speaking, through the use
of the foregoing, we can find which siae
is basically. off balance. The reason I
am giving so much time upon the magnetic
- 14 -
work here, is that we have so many peo-
ple come to us with nervous trouble, in-
fantile paralysis, and so forth. ··
My niece, when a child about nine
years old, had infantile paralys_is. One
leg was half the size of the other. They
took her to Ingny doctors who operated on
her five or six times. One doctor severed
some lir?;aments that should not have been
severed. In 1927, her father a·1ea. She
was then about twelve years old. For a
time I had to take over her father's
business·, so I was in close contact with
the child for awhile. I decided that
there was no use for the girl to go
through life like that, so I started to
work on her leg. The life energy wasn't
coming in with sufficient force, and, as
a result, the limb was much smaller than
normal. At intervals ·along the nerv~.
paths are points of connection, little
neurons -or trap doors, we. will say.
These open ana close as nerve energy is
directed to and from the brain. These
doors can swing both ways. The magnetic
energy pushes them to one side and the
force flows through. If something hap-·
pens that causes these trap· ao0rs to
stick, we have paralysis. sometimes this
condition is induced by an intense nerve
shock. sometimes a drug will do it, such
as the arug ·they once found in Jama iea .
ginger which· causes Jake-leg by ·burning
out the neurons. The force, whi~h we
call the life force, flows into all the
cells of the body along the .nerve paths,
and through the b·lood stream. This force·
brings a sufficie·nt quantity to the dif-
- 15 -
ferent cells to vitalize them. In the
case of infantile paralysis, these neu-
rons are partly stuc~, so the first thing
I had to ao on 'the crippled leg was to
force open the neurons, and increase the
magnetic 'force to such a degree that
those· neurons woul(j_stay open. I drove
the magnetic force through, time after
time. They became stuck again, · but I
kept driving. After a.while the entire
leg became more sensitive. We wanted the
leg to develop normally, so we started
massage on the muscles at the point where
the ligaments overlap. In six months
time, her crippled leg was almost as
large as the other one. Today, I defy
you to tell, from ordinary appearance,
that the. _girl has anything at all the
matter with her. · ·
Som~ things are outside the realm
of surgery. The doctors know nothing
about the.nervous system. They know some-
thing about the endocrine glands, but not
much. They know that age has nothing to
do with the atrophy of the pineal gland;
but they ao not know why it atrophies at
different ages in different people. A
person of seventeen or eighteen years. of
age may have a pineal that is all with-
ered up, while some people at sixty-five
may have a perfectly normal one with no
sign of atrophy. The reason the doctors
do not understand, is that the pineal is
the place where the soul is focused.
For example, take a person who is ·
apparently a hopeless paralytic. For in-
stance, some years ago Mr. E's father was
- 16 -
stricken. with paralysis;:.· a very bad. ;at_.
tack.· They gave him four- hours· to live~
His family called the priest and gave
him the extreme unction. When the doc-
tors had said that he had less than four
hours to 11ve, Mr. E .. :·went to him and
found him gasping· for breath. Mr. E.
went to work on him and at five o'clock
that night his .father was eating dinner.
some people thought that a· miracle had
been performed, but Mr. E. had a reason
for ·acing that. The reason was this:
That 1.f he could demonstrate to that old
man a working principle of truth, maybe
he could get him a little way on the path
of truth. We·know that 1t is not· always
welL to interfere with ·a soul passing.
In this case it was right and Just, .for
this man. to be brought back ·e:ven from
the doors o.f aeath. For before· the old
man died some five years later,. ;he had
accepted a lot of new things, ·1ncluding
reincarnation. Before doing this, Mr.·
E. questioned his consciousness, whether
to do this or not, and found a positive
answer. He did not perform a miracle.
For an hour be.fore his treatment he had
been filling htmsel.f with positive .force
in as large an amount as he could stand.
He not- only shifted all his breathing
through the right nostril, but he inten-
sified that breath. He took hold of his
father behind the left ear,· and contacted
the vagus nerve · which goes down toward
the heart, and connects · directly with·
the solar plexus which controls the vital
life fot:>ce. Along that channel he sent·
all ·or the force which he had ·accumu-
lated, and discharged every bit of vital
- 17,-
energy that he had. The cause of the
·,stroke was not eliminated but the symptom
. was.
Now we are going to discuss cases,
and we are going to show you in this
l~sson how to trace causes of sickness,
get reactions, and learn how to eliminate
_them. We always trac:e a thing as far
"back as we can, because sometimes a thing
which looks like a cause is only a sec-
ondary cause. we recognize the fact that
sickness can have causes on the physical,
·_mental, psychic, and spiritual planes.
·· _If you drink a bottle of mercury I could
not oiagnoze- it as a spiritual cause; I
would diagnose it as a physical thing .
. In the same way, if you came to me with
<·.stomach trouble from over-eating, I would
trace that back to a physical cause, the.
cause of over-eating. There are certain
things that actually have physical causes.
A lot of people try to trace everything
back to the spiritual realm. Some causes
are physical, some psychic, some mental,
and some spiritual.
we find that in nervous cases, mag-
netic treatment is extremely beneficial.
Before I start treatment for anything, I
relax the nerves. You do not have to
touch a person to give them a magnetic
treatment. You can send it fro~ a dis-
tance of two, four, or six inches. As a
matter of fact, under the proper concen-
tration with a lot of practice, you can
sena that magnetic force a hundred miles
or ten. thousand miles. However, we sel-
dom use magnetic treatment for those not
- 18 -
in our immediate vicinity; as there are
other methods just as effective, better
suited for absent treatment. A healer
should know more than one method of
treatment, because he has to deal with
many phases of sickness. A healer must
be confident that he can heal before he
ever tries to heal. No person going into
it doubting that he can heal, is going
to accomplish much. When a person·comes
to me for treatment, I do not question
myself as to.- whether I can heal them;· I
know I can. I know that if the proper
method is used I will get the result and
I have taken case after case that has
been given up by·most doctors. That is
usually the kind the metaphysical- healer
gets.
I had one man come to me ih Oklahoma
City with sugar diabetes. A man brought
him to me whose eyes had been injured in
an accident and whom I had healed. I
started to work on him. I worked with
him for six weeks, eliminating the a1,s-
easea condition because we haa-to rebuild
some of the physical organs. Finally I
had healed the symptoms. I moved heaven
and earth with him to get him to let me
remove the cause. He was well as far as
all physical symptoms showea and he did
not care. About six months later he came
back to me with another condition. He
told me·what was the matter with him. I
said, "I cannot start treatments at all
with you." Of what use was it for me to
cure the symptoms when he would not let
me cure the cause; and six months later
he would return with something else?
- 19 -
'-
. some people want to make Healing
their vocation. . If they -ao, that is all
right, but they shoulo learn that the
only way to make. a permanent cure is to
get to the cause •
QUESTION:In healing a person, would
it be wise to get their consent? ANSWER:
Yes, I usea_to heal anyone, but that was
before I had learnea l'low closed and tight
people were. Now I tell a .. person when
they first come to me for treatment, that
unless they are willing to work with me
to cure the cause, -r will ·not take the
case. If they still are willing., then I
work on the cause all the time I work on
the symptom, and try to eliminate them
together·.
In stopping a pain, distance makes
no difference. In the - Spring of 1937,
one of my students_ who has a sister liv-:
ing in Oregon, told me that her sister
had just written her that she had a very
bad tumor somewhere in her right side.,
close to her liver. It was swollen and
terribly painful, and the noctor had
planned to operate; so the stuaent asked
my help. I said, 11
At ten o'clock Monday.,
I will reach her." Those of the council
of this organization., a certain group who
are selected for their healing power,
sent out a healing vibration at that
time. The student wrote her sister and
told her of our work., but the sister.did
not receive the letter till Monday after-
noon. She wrote back that her pain had
stopped at ten o'clock that morning. She
immediately boarded a train and came to
- 20 -
Hollywood, she was ·very th:i.n, . her akin
was yellow, and she knew nothing o.f ,meta.-
phys ica; but she was open enough to let
me reach·the- cause. At the--end.o.f th-1rty
days ..we sent- her. back · to Grants Pass.:,
Oregon, and ·she has not had a pain since.
- r ~ Y
I want to discuss· .for -a minute.,: the
use of s:uggestion: _· in .. treatment·. When: a
person comes to you, ,never talk to them
:about the bad, condit·ion they have,· unless
it is an ,actual eri1c-rgency case. You must
build up a pic~uru.a.in their mind about
how good they-, are • In some ways, the
building of a mental image:. through such
affirmations as "a per.feet soul in a
per.feet body," is. quite useful, that is,
so lo~g as the sickness is on one plane
only. ·we· ao not want,· to put :worse pic,-
tures in their mind· than· ·they already
have. A lot of times the known, is more
fe.arsome than: the unknown. Actually,.- one.
would have to be really at the point of
aeath before they· were too. far · goee for
Healing, and even ,then it is not impo.$s1-
ble to effect a cure. · Every healer has
to use suggestion in this respect • .:Never
must he suggest that the persqn ~s bad,
tpat they cannot __
get -well. some healers
like .to d"o that -be cause. it ma).cesa ..person
anxious to come to them and. they get afore
money -out.· of t,hem. ,. Tell them the truth
but do not go.-any :further than that. An-:
ot;ner ~h1ng that we :-f:f.p.d many :times, ,in
fact ninety per c~nt of .the ~~me, is that
a per.son· unae~going metaphysical tre~t~
ment, will be worse after the. first. three.
treatments' than before they startect~ , .alt
i,s Vli~ "to tell them ,this before you
- 21 -
start, otherwise they are frightened to
aeath and think that you have made them
' ·.worse instead of helping them. We know
···that there has to be a breaking down of
the old. conditions- before the building
· up of the new. The poisons have to be
eliminated through the material organs
of elimination. · The first sign that I
have that the treatment is taking · hola,
is when a person gets worse. They have
so much poison in their system, that when
it is released from where it has been
centered, the poison driven out, and a
process of rebuilding begun, the reac-
tion causes them to fee 1 worse.
The first case I want to discuss is
that .of_-a man who had a bad case of heart
trouble; bad rupture, and bad stomach.
He was a man who did not believe in meta-
physics, and the only reason in the world
he came to me was be cause he was sen.t by
a man who had· had four vertebraes shat-
tered, whom I had healed. He only knew
that there was a man named noreal who
had healed his friend. He said, very
matter of fact, "I do not know what it
is all about, but I know what you did
for Mr. J." I askGd him to te 11 mo his
symptoms. Many times I do not believe
what they tell me, for most people are
incapable of correct self diagnosis,
but I like· to have them tell me anyway_.
I want them to express what they think
is the matter. Many times it gives n'ie a
clue to the cause. He said, "I will be
at work, when all of a S1idden everything
gets black in front of me; ·I faint and
have to be carried home. The aoctor· gJ,.ves
- 22 -
·me some medicine and I go on for three
or four :weeks, -then it hi ts ·me again. 'LI
said, "It 'sounas bad, doe·sn 1 t it? ·What
ao you eat? Give me an idea what youhaa
for breakfast, luncheon,·. and dinner.II
Every food that he said he ate 'was acid.
I said, "Well, I will tell you what· is
the ma~ter :with you. You may, or may :not
know tnat the' heart is not on· the left
side of the body, but almost directly-in
the center; and that the stomach in some
cases almost touches the lower lobe of
the· heart •. sometime in the paS"t five
years: a gas pocket formed in the upper
part. of your stomach and a membranous
tissue has -formed over it. You eat cer--
ta.in foods that are gas formin.1,, ··that
accumulate gas under ordinary· c:.i.;rcmn-·
stances. It takes only a little to pre:s-s-·
against that gas pocket and cause a pain
in. the region of the heart." · Tt: t-· was
my.. ·diagnosis of his heart trouble. I
could feel that gas pocket myse:..~. ·It
was noticeable to me. I said, ,:Now we
are going to work on the gas pocket and
break it away." He called me up th~ next
morntng. He was very sick, his. stomach
upset. · I said, ··"That is fine; c'.Jme up
this· afternoon and I will give you- an-
other treatment." I :worke1 on h.:...m for
about· a week and broke the gas ;:::>cket.•
Then we went to work on his r-._..pture•
That also was a physical thing caused b.y
·physical strain. .we healed the- muscles
where they had been. torn. There was .no
more pain or strain or hurt. The. cause
he had set up was physical. : I told him
:what -he could eat . and .wha·t he could not
eat. He starte.a, eating the foods which
- 23 -
I suggested., and after awhlle he improved
eno~gh so -that he cou:ta~ eat anything he
wanted. He went on a vacation last sum-
mer j the first v,acation : -he had- dared to
take -in five years.. After the_ man was
sound and well, .he came to·. me once a week
f'Or-treatment When there WaSnIt anything
the matter with him. He said he was well
and he -wanted to stay that way. That. was
a nice case and nice confidence.
I had another ~ase, a· lady who lived
in iong Beach-; the mother of a. medical
doctor, wh~ brought her to me, himself.
He _
had tried everything that he knew to
cure her. It was a baa case of arthritis •
She would attempt to go up or down the
stairs and would collapse • Her hand~
were knotted, fing~rs were stiff. He had
heard about a particular case that .I ·had
curea; and when this doctor brought his
mother to· me he said.,.· "no you think you
can ao anything f'or my mother?" · I said.,
"I am quite sure that we can." _He knew,
of course, . one of the · phys-ical .·causes
of arthritis which is excessive acid. He
said, "I ao not know of anything more to
ao for her.· She· has ta~en hot baths.,
gone on . an alkaline diet and var·ious
other things. If you will take her, I
will. bring her over to· you as often as
you say." I had him bring her twice a
week. I found firs_t that she was a food
faddist; had been for yeaI"s. For a long
period of time she had lived principftlly
on carrot and other vegetable juices •. In
combination . with certain other things,
carrot juice will· .form acid in the sys-
tem~· For instance, some animal bodies
- 24 -
require a lot of acid, therefore feeding
carrots to a horse will be good for it-,-
but a pig already has so much acid in
its system it cannot stand anymore, and
will aie from eating carrots-. Lately 1:t
has been discovered that spinach causes
certain forms of heart trouble. They
know now that some forms of heart trouble
are aggravated and sometimes started by
eating spinach. For years, doctors and
health food lectures have said it was
fine; the same health food doctors who
came through this country and said that
the essential oils of the germ of grains
were banaficial. Recently, they found
that five of those essential oils are
responsible for the formation of cancers
and tumors. . Injection of those oils,
into the stomach tissues of white rats
almost= invariably results in the forming
of can~erous cells._ I have been teaching
for years, and I like to see myself ver-
ified by science in some of these things;
especially something which has been con-
tradictory to the accepted rule.
_Anothe.r thing they discovered too,
is that potatoes are not fattening.
AS a matter of fact, one .of'-the diets
the Hollywoort stars are using· for re-
oucing purposes, is bake1 potatoes an1
milk.
The lady who had arthritis was 1n
quite a -bad condition. She had not_ eaten
any meat for yea.rs. She said, "Me.ats are
very acid formicig." ·.I said., "One of the
things that is ,causing this arthritis is
your worry about this acid condition.:
- 25- -
t· ·You have hearr1 for a _long time that too
much acir1 in the system causes arthritis.
You have a let of acid in your system
but·· yo·u r10 not have arthritis of the
l>oiiy; you have the arthritis of the minr'1.
•. In the first place, you have not taken
enough of the right kinn of food into
yourbody to build ren blood corpuscles,
!, ·:t:a.nrl you are anemic. AS a matter of. fact.,
t, ·you have some relative close to you that
• has arthritis." She said, "yes, my sis-
r ter." I said, "you built up a mental
picture of arthritis in the mind, anr1 it
has re-acted in your boay. 11 when I con-
vinced her of that, she oin not have
arthritis any more. Her son thought it
was a miracle, so he tolr1 another doctor
who brought his wife to me. She har1 cer-
tain things the matter with her. I
looked her over anii told him what the
con1ition was, and he said, "I r10 not
believe that." I said, "You are a doctor,
you have access to the laboratory; put
her through every test you can think of,
then come up ann te 11 me what you finn."
Five ciays late·r he came up anr'I sair1, "I
cannot find anything the matter· with
her;" There was a certain blocking of
the nervous system that was cause1 by a
temporary disfunction of the thyroir1,
induced by a mental conoition. This doc-
tor was not a stur1ent of the mind, and
when a case got outside . of the realm of
the· .purely physical, he r'Jio not have very
much to work with. Among others, whom
this - doctor sent me, was an olr'i la'1y
about eighty-four; very spry for her age.
She had come up ..two or three times with
the r1octor's wife. Her minr1 was func-
- 26 -
tioning perfectly. She had traveled from
one end of the country to the other.
While she was staying 1n Hollywood., some-
thing peculiar happened to her mind.
Every time she would sit down or re~ax.,
she would hear the songs she had known
as a child. She would hear them as
plainly as if she were hearing with· her
physical ears. It was not just a momen-
tary thing., but for seventy-two hours it
had been going on constantly. The doctor
who brought her to me said., "You ao some-
thing., I cannot." I talked to the old
lady and she told me what was wrong. I
said, "Wewill fix that up. Sit out here
in the Reception Roomwhile I get ready. 1:
I called the doc-tor in and said, rtThere
is one of two things wrong: E~ther c
growth has formed· on the area of the
brain where the memory impressicns of
those songs are stored., or there has been
a certain physical connection established
between that particular group cf brain
cells and her subjective mind., wt:'..ch in
turn is extending into her ob~ective
mind when she relaxes. rr it is a growth,
unless we can dissolve that growth anc
ao it quickly., it is too bad. :: will
spread and very probably death wi:l re-
sult in two weeks time." I called her in
and started to talk to her, making very
light of the condition. I used this
method of diagnosis·: I placed my hands
over her heaa. I found no sign of ob-
struction such as a blood clot or growth.,
and I knew that it was merely· what we
would call a psychic aera11gement. I
said., "If you just relax ana· sit in this
chair for five· minutes., you wont be
- 27 -
>:~
.. ·bothered very much. Come back tomorrow
.and we will get rid of it entirely. It
· is Just awakened memory running through
· .your mind . 11 What I did was to use mag-
.: netic force to block off that particular
·'.;area in the brain. There was too intense
·· an activity in that certain group of
cells. I sent the magnetic force both
ways, that is, from the positive and
.negative siaes. This re-acted as a bal-
ance or shutting off. I was afraid to
put too much force in it because she was
so old; so I had her come again the next
day~ I did the same thing again, and she
never had any more trouble after that.
'That was a psychic derangement.
A lady came to me whose husband is
a mining man in Arizona. For six years
she had had a headache between the eyes.
She had been to numerous doctors, in-
cluding Mayo Brothers. They diagnosed
it as trouble with the pituitary gland.
They knew that that pain was approximate-
ly in the position of the pituitary
gland. The first· thing she said was, "Do
you think you can do anything for me?11
I said, "I think we better find out what
is the matter with you." She. said, "Mayo
Brothers couldn't," and I said, "Well, I
am not Mayo Bro the rs . " She said, 1100 to
work," and I said, 11First I want to know
all about it. How did it start and when?"
She_ said, "It started about six years
ago. I woke up with it one morning, with
an intense· pain between the eyes and ·1t
has never stopped since then." I said,
"Give me-a few details of your life and
the tbings you had been doing for· two or
- 28 -
three months preceding that." She said,
·"I was taking .care of my home,.. playing
bridge and attending a Yogi Class." "What
kind of exercises did you take?'' nA cer-
tain kind of hreathing which ended with
centering ·on the Ajna." I am quite famir-
iar with Yogi exercises and that.breath-
ing exercise ·in connection with the open-
ing of Ajna was her own idea. I said,
"We do not have to look any further. t
know just what has happened. You have
set up a disordered or uneven vibration
in the pituitary · center· that is out of
harmony· with the physical body that it
is causing that intense pain." I gave
her a treatment which uses the mind., the
will, and certain ·psychic forces; and
centered it on the pituitary center, will-
ing for the vibration to be low~red, and
ordered; and thus gradually brought the
vibration down and down.:.· The headache
stopped instantly with that one treat-
ment, but I knew that the disordered vi-
bration had ~een carrying on for so long
that that one treatment would not ·stop
it for all time·. She caqie back again and
said, "Yes, she had had a little headache,
but nothing in comparison with what it
was before," so_I gave her one more treat-
ment and there. was. no more headache.
This is an exampie· of a psychic ~11.
There i~ no such'- thing as a materi-
alizing spiritual medium .who is. normal
physically,. in:regards· to their physical
anatomy~·.. . . . . : .
The solar ple·xus · is the seat of the
vital force· of ··11re. We ·ca·ll _it spirit,
- 29 -
but when we say that, we do not mean the
same thing that the reli~ionist does
when he talks of soul. Spirit is in all
forms of matter. The quality of spirit,
which exists in a form, determines whether
it is animate or inanimate. Above acer-
tain quantity, the form that has this
spirit in it, is able to move around; be-
low that level it is inanimate. The
reservoir of this vital life force is
.the solar plexus, the second largest
nerve center in the body. It controls
breathing, walking and everything which
ls not under the direct control of the
conscious mind. The sub-conscious mind
from. its center in the head directs this
secondary brain. This is where the reser-
voir of the vital life force is located.
The vital life force which flows through
all the occult centers starts at the
pineal gland and nows through the occult
chain, passing through all its centers
and returns to that point from which it
started. Let us .suppose that somethin~
has happened to the solar plexus because
of certain practices, not necessarily
evil, and through ignorance one develops
some occult force and brings about a
condition of unbalance which results in
a tearing or splitting of the tube which
connects the centers. When the vital
life force pours into the tube, When the
physical body is relaxed and the subcon-
scious is in charge, it pulls the rift
apart and allows the vital life force to
leak out. ~'hen the vital life force
pours out, it comes out in the form of
ectoplasm. Ectoplasm is nothing more or
less than the vital life force or spirit;
- 30 -
it is the fluid, pla5tie stuff around
which all form and substance manifests.
A person came to me with a leakage
in the .solar plexus, a physical ill. we
worked on it and closed it. The person
had been mediumistic. When I healed the
break, they lost that power, and came to
me and wanted to break it open again. I
said, "No, I will not do it because then
I would · be responsible." In two years
with a leakage,of that degree, she would
have been dead and I did not care to as-
sume the responsibility. some mediums
are called control mediums but they have
not learned to control anything. There
is a break in their occult anatomy over
which they have no control. ~ometimes,
ectoplasm comes throu~h the mouth. When
ectoplasm comes out of thcl mouth, the
medium seldom lives to be more than
thirty-five years of age. This vital
life force is the plastic binding force
of all matter and forms the nucleus of
every electron, atom, molecule, or cell.
Therefore, the medium can subconsciously
extend their thought into it, cause it
to take on a certain tangibility by
collecting cosmic dust, the primal sub-
stance around it; and by their will mold
it into any shape they care for it to
assume. Materialization· is merely the
leaking of the life force which has a
picture thrown. upon it by the will of
the medium. There is nothing supernatural
about it. I have seen thousands of man-
ifestations of ectoplasm, and by my own
will have forced it to assume any form I
wanted it to. I happen to be very well
- 31 -
··-··acquainted with one of th~ most prominent
men in_psychic research. Heis author of
about sixty books. I have· been to his
home a number of times, and he was very
much interested in psychic research from
the standpoint· of sc·ientific investiga-
tion. He· showed me many cases and photo-
graphs which we checked on, and were able
to arrive at the definite conclusion that
ectoplasm· is the plastic, life stuff,
and ·can be for~ed by the consciousness
to assume any form desired. I have sat
in the room when one of those materiali-
zation seances was going on, and because
I could enforce my will above and beyond
those present, the materialization would
assume the form and image that I would
will it to take, by willing to the medium
the form in which I wanted the ectoplasm
to appear. I would visualize the photo-
graph of some person ·who was actua11y
living at the tlrne and cause it to ma-
terialize. It was my will, received by
the subconscious mind of.-the medium. In
the case of this person who came to me
with psychic leakage, I had rather doubted
to begin with, as to whether I should
close it up; but she insisted that she
wanted it, because she was weak physi-
cally. Usually, in those ·psychic ills,
they cry their eyes out when they lose
the power which has been draining their
very life away.
The next case that I want to talk
to ·you about is one that is, to _
me, one
of the most intere·stinp: cases that I
have ever encountered: It was a case
that W?S'diagnosed as sleeping sickness_·~:
- 32 -
we read a great deal about sleeping sick-
ness in the papers. As a matter of fact
there never has been a case of sleeping
sickness in the United states., at ·1east
in historic times. The germ of sleeping
sickness is no~ carried from person to
person., but is carried by .the tsetse fly.
The disease is· .seldom communicated from
one human being.to another .. It afflict&
oxen; mules are immune., horses· are not.
rn·Africa., they have a peculiar way of
inoculating oxeri against sleeping sick~
ness. They split the tail about eight
inches from the root and insert tissue
from an oxen that has been bitten by the
tsetse fly. ·The tail .falls off and they
are then immune from the bite of that
fly. They ·have done a lot of work in
el~minating them in settled regions. I
ao not·think that doctors here even sus-
pect the cause of the so-called sleepin~\
sickness found here. This case was in-t
. teresting because .it had its cause ~pon \
two planes, the mental and psychic planes. ·
A woman. phoned and told me· her daught\!r
had bee·n in .a coma for about eighteen
days. They had been unable. to arouse he~
and she was getting weaker rapidly. They
had had many.doctors and called in a
psychologist who had been unable to do
anything for: her. They tried everything
they could think of., and asked me, as a
last resort if .I could not arouse her.
I asked what started it, and how it cq.me
about. Her mother told me she was sit-
ting in ·a class lo:r aeve·loping mediumship
and the second ri~ght . had gone into . a
trance • · After .the seance was over · s.ne.
was· still iti a trance. They took.her
- 33 -
\
\
home. She was partially conscious and
muttered a bit, incoherently. After that
she sank into this deep coma and nothing
could arouse her. The mediums were scared
and left town. Relatives called in doc-
tors who tried everything. They asked
the doctors if it would be all right to
call me. The doctors said I could not
hurt her, so they came after me. I knew
that the trance alone was not the cause
or it. I said to her mother, "I want you
to give me as nearly as you can, a life
history or this girl.'' She said, "We
11,
she has been married·twice. Her first
husband, an aviator, was killed in an
airplane crash about a week after they
were married. She saw him die. They
were very much in love and were planning
on ·building their home. For about two
years all she eould think of was this
fellow, and talked about him all the
time, and about their plans. Finally she
married another man; not because she
loved him, but because of pressure at
home. Then she had a child. Cond1tions
were not very good at home because she
was always talking about her first hus-
band, saying the child was the physical
, child of her second husband, and the
spiritual child of her first husband.
This did not promote harmony and finally
they were divorced. Practically all of
her thoughts were of this first·husband
and their romance, and she had gone into
spiritualism trying. to contact this first
husband." I said, 11I will see her. 11 She
said., IIcan you come · right now?" and I
said., 11No, there is no hurry., she will
be all right .., After class Mr. E. and I
- 34 -
drove out and examined the girl. I raised
her eyelids; there was no reaction and
she had a fixed stare. Even a thousand
candle power light globe aroused no re-
f1ex action from her eyes. If intense
light gives no reaction, then they are
.really under; because even hypnosis re-
_sponds to strong light. I asked the par-
ents· to leave the room. I tried sugges-
tion but found I could not reach her
mind, so I tried another method. We must
always have .a medium to reach the con-
sciousness, and this medium is ordinar-
ily, the objective mind; but in this
case the consciousness was not function-
ing objectively, at all. Words did not
strike upon her consciousness, be·cause
she had shut off all objective connection
with her senso1"y organs .. Tr.ere ~:as a
physical and mental cause at the same
. time that there was a psychic cause.
Knowing that I could not reach ·her
through sensory means, that is, through
the sense of touch, hearing, or sight., I
was able to ms.ke contact by knowing where
the subjective mind is centered. I could
reach in., take hold of the place where
the consciousness is centered, and stir
it up with an extension of my own con-
sciousness, force it back to the objec-
tive re&lm., and bind it there by my will,
as she had blocked off her consciousness
from the objective. The second section
of the pineal is the seat of the subjec-
tive mind,. and the pituitary is the seat
of the· objective mind~ There is a cer-
tain hollow tube that runs from behind
the pituitary to the pineal. It is called
the infundibulum and is the material
- 35 -
manifestation of the fourth dimensional
channel which connects the pineal and
pituitary centers. It is the physical
channel along which the consciousness
moves from the subjective to the objec-
tive mind centers. I blocked this chan-
nE?l off s-o she could not even use her
subjective mind. Then I put her to sleep;
a natural; normal sleep, because she had
been in a state of suspended animation
and needed time for ,bodily energies to
be renewed. Her father and mother, who
had been out of the room, cane in, looked
at me and said, "She is not awake?" I
said, "No, but she is not in a coma, she
is asleep. no not bother her. Close the
door and leave it closed. She will awake
in the morning about eight o'clock. Let
her rest tomorrow and the next day. BY
noon the next day she will be perfectly
normal. Bring her in to see me•" About
8:05 the next day they called up and
said, "She is awake." When you sua;gest
to one in a state of self hypnosis that
an event will happen at a certain time,
it comes at that time and no other. we
have an example here of a psychic and
mental illness; and ninety out of a hun-
,dred cases of so-called sleeping sick-
,ness, are the result of a retreat by the
i ego· into a· dream world. In shutting; off
the subjective mind, those subjective
memories were also blocked, and became
no longer real to her. She ,told me her"-
self then, exactly what happened. She
dio not know what made those memories so
real. The only way she could realize
this was when they were removed from her.
She wanted to study. I said, "No, you
- 36 -
have no business dealing. with :the·· sub-
jective realm for some time. You need a
firm fixation in the. objective world be-
fore you can have anything to do with
the subjective world." My diagnosis of
her case was that through years of mental
awelling ..
on the dream life and romance
which she and her first husband. had
planned, the dream life. became more real
to her than her real life. The thought
kept coming into her subjective mind
every moment that she could slip .away
from reality, till in her subjective
mind, she had· built a dream world which
was more real to her than the world
around her. The husband that had died,
was the-re as being alive; everything was
there that she wanted. Now when she sat
for this trance mediumship, the i:;trong
desire that she had, to make a contact
with her first husband, caused her to
slip tn.to the subjective realm where all
the things she desired and wanted, ·ex-
isted. When she found herself surrounded
by those things,. she cut off .all her ob,..
jective functions. She was in a place
that she longed to be, surrounded by the
things she longed to have.
QUESTION: What is it when some peo-: ..
ple, who think that they are .quite wise,
seem to feel the presence, for some time.
afterward, of those who have passed
through transition? ANSWER: sometimes
they have a subjective impression whi.ch
they hold on to. At other times some·
elemental force uses a mental influence
to cast a picture into their mind. An-
other way is that a soul which has passed
- 37 -
on, if it had strong ties to ~ome in-
dividual, temporarily leaves its new
body, and makes contact with them. The
soul is the same, from body to body, and
it might, in the sleep of its present
.body, leave it unconsciously, to appear
to one who by their own will was trying
to draw to them, the soul which had
passed on. Babies, whose egos are not
fastened so tightly to the body, often
leave the body in sleep without con-
sciousness of what they are doing. In
fact it is possible for a person who has
mastered the fourth dimension to leave
the body and find out where a person has
reincarnated. After Mr. E's father died,
Mr. E. was able to follow him, find out
where he had incarnated, and communicate
certain things to him which will help
him in this new incarnation. We know
that those whom we have left are not of
the dead at all, but of the living. Jesus
said, "For my God is not the God of the
dead but of the living." There is no
death except in the consciousness of
man's mind.
QUESTION: Why are there so many
different teachings on reincarnation.
ANSWER:Many metaphysicians that claim
to be high, know so little about rein-
carnation because they have never passed
beyond the. borderland of the fourth
dimension. They can see back into this
material world thinking they are in the
fourth dimension. If they were not in
the borderland, they could not see into
the third dimension. Most people move
back and forth through that borderland
- 38 -
and never reach the real fourth dimen-
sion. I will tell you that from that
borderland··1nto the true fourth dimen-
sion., there are twenty-three gates and
openings., twenty-three separate and dis-
tinct parts of that fourth dimension re-
lated very closely to this material
world., because it is through the inner
spaces that the laws of the cosmos. are
directed to the material plane. on the
inner., fourth dimensional plane are shown
the action and reaction of Cosmic law on
the material plane. There it is seen
from the point of law., and not from the
point of manifestation.
Another reason that we have so many
different teachings on reincarnation., is
that most minds studying reincarnation
can receive only a certain limited num-
ber of symbols and impressions. The
average mind is limited by its lack of
ability to receive with clarity., im-
pressions of things which are not bound
by the limitations of the mind. Fourth
or fifth dimensional experiences have to
be translated into three dimensional
pictures. They have not had enough spe-
cific training in interpretation of sym-
bols., to understand hyper-dimensional
images. _What they receive is translated
into impressions., according to the aspect
of consciousness they have attained. If
they had correlated every phase of con-
sciousness., the picture would be com-
plete. It is not the thing which comes.,
which is erroneous, but man's abiiity to
conceive of it. as it really is, that is
erroneous. That is the ~eason some get
- 39 -
a clearer picture than others. It is the
same thing that I give· in the sepher
Yetzirah, when I speak of the six direc-
tions of space and how the mind of man
is limited by his concept of them. He
cannot conceive of anything that is not
up or down, north or south, east or west.
Things of other dimensions and planets
belong to other directions at right
angles to the three dimensional world;
the ref ore man _has to pass against. the
barrier of this three dimensional plane
he is dwelling in, until ·he is able to
pe~etrate that,barrier •.
Cancer, in certain forms, is caused
by the essential oils of grain hearts.
They have been able to produce cancerous
tissue in mice by an infusion of those
oils. One of the few things that medical
science knows about cancer is that it
only manifests in an area of dead tissue;
tissue where cells .. have· become dormant,.
where there is no life. we know that the
reason cells ·a:ie, is because for· some
reason or other the vital life force is
not reaching that particular group, and
the nucleus of the cell is not being re-
newed sufficiently to keep that· part
from becom~ng inanimate. The doctor knows
that if he removes a cancer in its early
stages~- it often does not come back,
though · some
times, ·1t . does. In each of
those· cells· is a tiny nucleus of spirit.
It is constantly being emanated from the
body arid has to be constantly fed and
renewed. The. channels that feed the cells
are blocked off, a gap appears. and the
vital life force of spirit is gradually
- 40 -
.radiated. Then .there is onlY::·One -thing
.that_ canr5>ccur. _in;that.'.area; .deac;):_-Qells,
anti certain othe~ things,. manifest.· there
.. . .......
as cancer.
. ... ; ...
Medical science fuisexamined count-
less cultures and tissues. They have
never been. able. to find a microbe ... or
germ of ca:nce::~< ·TheJ .>t.bought for a time
·tha t ·1t was ·be.cause· 1.t was· f'11 terable,.
NOW they _pass cul t.ure
s ' thrc;,ugh.,.a' por.ce -
lain screen . ·and. s.:ub.J<'i~t1t.· to. a1rre·rent
dyes and chemicai-s· f'or: s'ome·m14:X-obeS:.
·are
invisible. under a, m16roscope uh'iess thElY
do__
that.· They .h~.v~,llO~:)i~eri'.
abie ·t9: f~d
.a.rly·
germ. ttom' cap.;d~J:.·-
· :,rt ""Just comes·,
:u.s\.\ally f~OID, daad·'"c:ell. t:1ssue,., and: usu.-
a,J..ly
~ U?'lle~s_
t:rea
te~,:).n 'the ..e~f.ty: .spage$.:,
_the person pa.s~e~ ..awa,y. .o~ the'. other
.Jlana. we~
...
sometime:s 'find cancerous,. -tis.sue
pre.sent"for '~wen~y:
year·s of ~Of~ 'withput
the pe::i;ase>n
..
be:tng. _.ser10W3.ly. arrect~a.
~ometim~~ ··_they. ~avE( oa·nc~r,~····on ~;
var.1pus
part~_ of the .body, · pur.n:: t,:iem out -:_a~a
find 1
them come out ·1n SOtn«fotner ~ · Pliice.
The!f·use·rad~-wn.'t}!eatrn~_ri"f
fop can.¢,~··.in
t;1ccle'}?,o§p+tals ! .·' ::_'·The::.r.~a:tq-act:f..V~j~m~ii~
a,t;l.p_nij'at-$. suppo$,~q ~Q '~u,~if QUt. ~hf, Q{ln,+
cer· roots~-- ·sqmetJmef;J tbet do·and. ~o¢e~
t f:Ine
s ''ttie;i .ooriIt .:~:·
. :-,The
r(·..
t.hey '~a;f; ' ••we
lJ.
the cancer must :_ha/~e
,:gOttert: '1ntd' _tb.Ef
b}OO('J Streani, II ari:d-cthey try t() 'find ~t:
in the blood stream, but they cannot do
it •
.··.The:r,iasonthat they· cannot find "it
is that: the'• cause· iEf metaphjsical;;' p:o-t"
phys.fcfa·l, ,''and they can neyer . lay ithe1r
hand's upon·
it by'.'.'putting "it'.uride:r the.
,. .··· : . .. . : :.-· ,.,., . :, ·:.
- 41 -
microscope. The cause of all cancer is
repressed emotion. some think it is
only the repressed emotion or hate, but
any repressed emotion whether it be hate,
rear, or love, can cause cancer.
A woman who had for twenty-five
years been fn love with her sisterts
husband and constantly brooded on. it,
had one ot the worst cases or cancer I
ever encounteren. usually the thing
which has caused cancer 1s the thing
which they have buried deepest 1n their
own minds and souls. I spent five weeks
trying to find the cause Qf that woman's
cancer. I knew something of her life
and had no reason to doubt her statement
that she hated no one. Her life proved
that s-he actually did love everyone she
came into contact with., but the cancer
wasin her mind, a thing she was using
all her psychic force to repress. I
asked her, "Have you been in love with
somebody for a long time," and she denied
it, but . as_· she dia ;so., little streaks
of black shot throuP:h her aura. Then I
started in on her: She ".t~isted and
squirmed but ffnally .she told ae. I said:,
"oohome to your sister and b~other-1n·
law · and tel1- them., and get it out of
your.system." She said., "Oh, I can't,"
but she, did.·
After it got out she had a big
laugh:.,· and said she did not love him at
all but had been in_ love with .an idea.
Then the cancer· started shriv.e ling up
and d"l.sappeared ;in .. about four or five
weeks. She had cancer in the mind,
- 42 -
which manifested in the body. _.,...~
That is the way they all start, the
person .forms a· psychic or mental picture.
Instead of ·ailowing their force to flow
outward> they turn all their . creative
energy toward the subjective.
I know some people who have had. a
desire to kill some individual tor years.
They turn it inward into the subJective,
and after awhile something is cut ott in
the body. For some reason a bruise or
injury kills a certain cell area. Ordin-
arily the body will repair that in.time~
but they have used so much vital energy.
in making repairs that when their vital
energy goes out it carries an impress ion;.
a picture with ft of the subjective re-
pression to the injured cells where it
forms a cancer. It was created in. the
subJective and_was never intended to man-
ifest as a mater1·a1 thing. Therefore
cancer is· aothing more than a thought
form.
It 1s always one definite · thing,
sometimes pushed so far down an~. held so
.firmly that they do not know it exists.
It is not a flashy, fiery thing. They
have built. up· layer ·upon layer;of ob-
jective rorce and mold it subjectively •.
That is where psychoanalysis comes 1n.
When I am working that way I do n~t
at f 1rs t pin them down to anything. A)·-
ter awhile in casual conversation~
finally get a key. Everything I say,
bring the conversation back to some point
- 43 -
that might lead t9. the cauJ:ie. oradua.lly
it pulls a l'ittle more out or··them. some-
times, they ar~. consciously holding it
·111.· Frankly it ~s-~a~ier .to flnd._.it,
. whenh'they afe doing it ·uncohsclousl,y. '
I" • • ' • • ~
•; ·A repre~~~d. emotion
tumor. The lady I spoke
Oregon had a.tumor which
repression. _: · ·
. .
will manifest': a
of who lived in
was. caused by
MYsister was .in a hospi~al to be
operated on for ·tumor; I sent he.r a tel-
;egram saying., "Get. out. of the '.tiospital
and cQme ddwri here." ·she got oµ-t of -t})e
hospi,tal, came td me;· and I. f.ound there
·was a·swelling as big ·asmy arm.·, I said,
:"what is th~- tdea Qf having. .a tumor?"
She sa:ta,· "welt I .havehad it for nearly
a year. II· I happer)ed_. to. know her ca.se aria
·ju,st .what cfiu.sed ·1t, so I sa;td, ··· "nove~
let'·s talk th.is.·out;' you 'lie down -here
on the couch. •i I started to re·call 'the
iticid~_nt t.!l.at had ha,ppened apout: :rourt_een
month.a ago. '· I got her to ta~k about.· .it,
the thing that she had not dared to· ·talk
to anybopy else. about.. I relieved her
mind and as the. swe:lling.. went out. of her
mind-~ ft went:: out o.r.·he'r body. · I will
tell you frankly .:that . ninety-five per
cent-or all c&.ses·we have start.in the
mind,. . The .c~tista or: ever'y ~me: of· those
symptoms reaJly is. in a. ·mental, psychi_c,
or spiritual condition. ·
. ·~hen,. I,. a:m.
~i~inating. sonietJ;iing
caused, by an·overloacled stomach., or:b;rea;k.-
ing·, or an··a.rm ~r leg., tha~ is a different
thing~ ' ,r':walkeq across ·the street one
- 44 -
night. Two men had. fallen on· the icy
· s.treet, knocke·d uncon~cious. ·I slipped
in the same ··place, slid in th~ air,
landed_ on my toes. and ·fingers, and got
:UP and went on. If: l· .had not prepared
niyself when I slipped,.· I probably-,would
have busted . my head too. .:some meta-
physical teachers ,wP~ld say that·those
people had set up causes or it would not
have happened.· ·
one time many years ago, I was
wrestling a·nd broke my arm, but I never
broke my arm again.·· ·I -learned how .to
.-fall. .·These. things I' call physical. I
do .not say they are metaphysical .causes.
But I consider W,henI do sometn.ing ._l.ike
that, that r:have broken a physical ·1aw.
It I go out and have_· spme chili-~ , pork
chops, welsh. raI'e-bit, etc.,. anti .then my
stomach kicks b~ck,. am I going to. bla_me
·some mental or spirituaL cause. ·for ,it?
I relate· those __
things,.:to material causes
lack of observing. m_aterial :J_aws
•
. Different laws function on different
planes, ·and material la~,s must be ol;>-
~e:rved too. If T tel1 the man at the
drug stor~ .tha t J want a couple of. ounce~
of sulphuric acid and drink it down,. l
know what reaction sulphuric ..acid .. will
hav~ ori my fiesh:or ai,y. other mate.rial;
and: if :t pour it d:owh I have, ..broken. ~
material :1at1 • , Thus, I do. nqt say tha~
everything . is a spiritual~ .. mental~ o~
psychic law. '
Take a case of a high blood pres~
sure, for instance. It always comes.
froni.
- 45 -
one cause, and one cause alone; that is,
too much adrenalin in the· blood stream,
too great a secretion from the adrenals
that lie like little caps just above the
kidneys. we know too, that an excessive
amount of salt in the diet is very con-
ducive to high blood pressure. why? Be-
cause salt has a tendency to increase
adrenalin secretion. For low blood pres-
sure a great oeal of salt in the diet is
very desirable.
The secretion of adrenalin into the
blood stream is controlled by two tiny
nerves close to the surface, lying in the
small of the back. You can press your
fingers there until you find two very
sore spots just above the kidneys. Those
nerves connect with the aarenal cortex.
In magnetic emanation, a magnetic dis-
charge through it, with the ordering or
willing of the lowering of that blood
pressure, will lower blood pressure if
we center that force directly through
those two nerve centers.
we have quite a number of doctors
in our organization. we have been able
to show them some things that they have
been able to use in their work. If I
were talking to a group of chiropractors
and osteopaths, I would show them the
Hindoo spinal nerve system .of rhythmic
nerve pressures, which one can do wonders
with, because you use magnetic force at
the same time you use pressure. With
every outrush of magnetic force, the
brain cell sensitizer, Odie force, is
re leased.
- 46 -
I have a couple of cases that were
mentioned to me; one of them, asthma.
Some people do not know that asthma is a
form of hay fever. so-called hay fever,
asthma ..an<'i migraine ·headaches are all
caused: by the; same . cause; because the
individual is allerglc to some plant
pollen, food or product. In other words,
the breathing in of certain foods acts
upon some of the delicate membranes, and
causes a kind of infection. In fact, I
examined one set of bronchial tubes in a
medical laboratory where they were dis-
secting, and there were actually tiny
parasitic growths present that had come
from plant pollen. That person had been
allergic to one form of plant pollen
that actually can grow in organic flesh.
we find. that asthma itself can be treated
in exactly the same way that we treat
sinus trouble. Migraine headache is an
infection of the large sinus that trav-
erses the center of the head. That is
one reason it seems as if the sufferer's
head is splitting open. A peculiar thing
is that migraine headaches, or asthma,
usually comes when either the father or
mother of the patient has been afflicted
with hay fever. In other woras, it al-
ternates from generation to generation.
Now, of course, the main thing that
we are interested in, in anything of
that sort, is how to eliminate the con-
dition and not be . allergic to it. one
doctor does it by taking tissue tests
and infecting it with certain kinds of
pollen. If you have a bad spell, then
that particular thing is set aside and
- 47 -
he advises you to eliminate·it. orris
root is the base of many face powders
and causes a great deal of asthma anrJ
hay fever. some of the best powders are
the worst for some people. Most of the
fairly good powders contain orris. root,
and that is one of the main things which
people are allergic to. What we call
hives 1~ caused by the same thing. . All
are different symptoms. of allergy. The
reason for a person being allergic is
because there 1s a deficiency· in the
parathyroid glands. sending m~gnetic
force over the particular .portion can
relieve the inflammation that·1s there,
but to get at the cause, and remove it
is another thing. The condition that
makes· it possible for a person.to be al-
lergic, is 1nsuffic1~nt functii;:ming of
the parathyroid glands. If the para-
thyroids are all removed, aeath will re-
sult; ·
The ductless glands are ac·tually
the centers through which most of the
physical ailments are controlled. Take
the .thyroid gland; wesee many people
with enlarged thyroid; about nine women
to one man. The reason is that it is
usually caused from emotional unbalance.
A woman has a stronger emotional nature
than a man; ana is_ usually more aeli-
cately· organized sexually.
In studying the endocrines, we start
with the pineal gland and find that the
pineal is really divided into three_sec-
tions. It arises from the roof of the
third ventricle of the brain. Its phys-
- 48 -
ical ·function ..is unknown. · ·1n the l·ower
section of the pineal are a-number of
tiny grains "1hich are called brain sand.
·They are compose ti of vaPious · chemical
elements anii · are almost m1croS"CoJ;),ic· in
size; but when they have dissected a
pineal they . f.ind the grains. are , 1ri a
.rather compact mass.
Another peculiar· thin 6 ..,about the
pineal, is that ordinarily., though,it is
consioered to atrophy somewhere around
·the age of twenty-one, yet that is· not
al'11
1
ays so ... They have .round in the brain
of· a- person sixty years: old., a pineal
that was perfectly alive and active; and
therefore·. they really· do not know what
to say about it. They say that under--
certain conditions it is a gland of in ....
ternal secretion., but sometimes it is
not. The· ·function of the internal se-
cretion of the vibrating, alive pineal
glanti, they have not as yet been able to
discover. Arouhr't the base of the pineal
is a great deal of fatty tissue!'., ~,,hich
builas up around the base .or·it anti
presses in upon the brain sand. Tha,t
lower section is· where . the soul or· ego
of man connects with the physical body; .
also the place where. the vital life force
comes into the bo:r1y. ·In a person that ..is
healthy., vital.,. an'1 alive .., there j.s founr'J
an intense vibr-e:tion prese-nt. If the
gland. becomes more or less atrophied,
then ·the · vibrations slow down and the
tiss,1e starts pref!sing closer and closer
o:n the bas? of tne pineal; the brain sand
is compressed. ana the vibration ,slowe(,1
dqwn. Only a small amount of vital life. i
- 49 -
force trickles in where there
a full flow of it.
should be
:·~:: ·when less· and less comes in to be
~- '· carried to the tissues, .then the person
~._.,
..,starts getting old. If' we want to keep
· plenty of vital life force, T411e
have to
increase the vibration so that more vital
life force can come in for us to draw
upon, to reouild the weakened tissues of
the body .•
The pineal gland ·itself has always
been considered by occultists as being
the third eye, or the eye of the soul.
In certain animals it actually takes the
form of an eye. The old stories that we
find in Greek Mythology, of men with an
eye in the center of the head, is nothing
more or. less than a story of myth whi-eh
tells of the existence of.the third eye
in the head.
It is the thing which is spoken of
as the single eye jn the Bible, an~ in
the Kabbala, verse 63_. Lesser Holy ASsem-
b ly, "The Head of all Heac'ls, the Head
which is not a head, namely, that which
is in that Head, neither knows nor is
known, because it cannot be comprehended
either by wisdom or Understanciing." The
reason it cannot be comprehended either
~y Wisdom or Understanding is because
what we call wisdom an1 Understanding,
are purely. manifestations of the finite
material mind. It, itself, has neither
wisdom nor understanding, but it has an
all-embracing comprehension. It gives
you the symbolical analogy of the three
- 50 -
heads, the three parts· of the pineal
gland. The pineal glanrf in some form or
other is foun'1 in all vertebrates.
Animals do not have a soul, but it
is through their pineal glanas that the
vital life force flows. In·every living
body the· vital life force is coming in.
Plants, rocks, and earth ha ye their man•
ner in which they receive it too, but not
in the same manner as the animal does.
The pituitary glan'1, also known as
the pypophysis, is locatea in the frontal
plates of the skull in a hollow of what
is called, the sphenoid bone. Its phys-
ical functions are the .control of the
structural growth, and. l.t :is responsible
for those disorders that we call dwarfism
and giantism.
It is one of the most remarkable of
all ductless glands, ana wa.s considered
the seat of the soul by ma.'nyearly meta:..
physicians. The reason for that was,
that it is the point where the conscious-
ness would ah:ays center when they arew
it into the head. It has two lobes, one
anterior, one posterior. one of the most
important functions of the pituitary ex-
tracts, is its powerful effect in stimu-
lating contraction of muscular tissue.
Too much pituitary causes giantism. Too
little causes cretinism.
The Mayas sometimes bound their
heaas so they were square and box-like,
or sometimes pointed, and are, therefore,
not examples of pituitary deficiency.
- 51 -
The.reason some of those tribes bound
their heads was 'because some ·of the an-
cient Atlantean tribes an1 very~· tall
heads an~ some of the more barbarous
races, trying to look like them, bound
their heads to as swne t_hat form.
QUESTION: Is ·:it· a fact that a pin-
·uead .is· dull iri mind?. ANSWER:
Ac.tually
·tne·y :had Just as'·much intelligenctf ··as a
smart· dog. . A b~rn .cretin does not have
a ·soul. when you have learned to see the
auretic emanations, you find only certain
emanations of magnetic· force from the
~retin, not the basic underlying .s~ul
color.
. QUESTION: what causes a cretin to
be porn? ANSWER:
sometimes the parents
themselves, who have a child or that
sort, have set up a cause because in the
past they have broken certa!n laws. phys-
ical or. otherwise. sometimes -a child
like that is born as a lesson to those
people. Maybe the understanding of.this
and the seeking of the cause, will bring
them an:understanding of life that they
would not .have acquired otherwise. A
child born in that manner. is often with-
out a soul and -is sometimes ·the r.esult
or a cause. set up in the past, by one or
both of .the parent.a. Sometimes it is
br9ught.to,give. them a lesson, because
it requires inf1nite~patience to take
care of such a. child and this is the
method that is -~sed to force them to ex-
e~c~se that patience.
The. p1tui tary gland ~Bis ts of .two
- 52 -
lobes· joined together by a tiny· a.talk.
From the anterior lobe a .secretion. pas·ses
directly into the blood stream .. ·. This
secretion is. called pituitrin. If the
se ere tions of the ..pituitary are balanc~'-i.,
the skeleton is strong; the nervous sys-
tem balanced, an1 the senses alert. rt
regulates the growth of th~ hody. by stim-
ulating the growth of the long bones. An
over-activtty causes,giantism. Medical
science krioi,.,s no way by whJ;cn·abnornial
·function of the pituitary can be stopped ..
You ca.n increase height by increas:ing
secretions~ · You can. grow tall~ at any·
age.• An· average person can, o:ver- a. per-
iod of a couple of years,. add inches to
their height. .The pituitary has a clo.se ·
relationship to the. thyroid.,· and treat-
ment o;f the thyroid should. always be· ac,-
companied by pituitary treatme.nts. Al-
ways work on both glands together be-
cause · they are . so c.losely connected in
functions. If there is a ·pituitary dis-
function or· thyroid di.sfun.ction, · I work
up.on both •.. S0111etimes.. even asthma .is
c~usea by pituitary. trouble, ana, when·
such is the . case., it is · ca:used' . by too
little secretion on . the 'frontal lobe ...
c·ontinubus ·:stimulation of the. pituitary
gland ·will turn a..sluggish. adult or chi:J.d
into a more·vital, active person. In all
cases we ao not strive. to ..over~stimula te
but to bring a normal functioning.
. . .
QUESTION: will the effect of pitu+-
trin taken into the. system externally,
'q_o.
much gooa, .. or will it wear· off :1ri th~
long run? ANSWER:Many tin;es it is given
when there is a lack of secretion, but
-~53 -
at best it is only a temporary measure.
It can be given to you for five years,
but when you stop taking it the e.ffect
soon dies down. That is the reason it is
desirable to cause your own glandular
functions to become normal.
I had a case in HollyWood, in 1937.
one of my students, a man, has a girl
about seven years old; a beautiful child
who has all the appearances of good men-
tality, but can hardly talk. She could
remember nothing and had no normal re-
actions whatsoever. I f~und tha.t-.her ·
case was one of pituitrin deficiency;
that the secretion was far below normal,
but the soul was there. It was not a
case of a purely animal body. To look
at her and hear her talk you woul~ think
that she was feebl~ minded, when actually
the ego or soul was very intelligent. I
examined her very thoroughly and con-
sented to work with this child. when I
started to work with her, I gave her some
candy and made friends with her. That
gave me the chance to get my han1s over
her head in the position necessary, with-
out frightening her. Thus she never knew
that she was getting a treatment., other-
wise· . _she might have had a fear. of the
unknown. I had her father bring her to
me every Saturday afternoon. soon she
was speaking whole sentences and begin-
ning ·to re·cognize people. Before we were
through with the child she was actually
learning to read. The mind was beginning
to function. ·· Mr. R., one of my assis-
tants, took up where I left off, whE:!n
I 1e·ft ca lifornia •
- 54 -
Another case, not quite like that:
I had a boy brought to me with tubercu-
losis of the bone. He was crippled and
hari been in the Children's Hospital in
Oklahoma City. They turned him out of
the hospital and said there was nothing
they could do for him. They had to take
him home. Those are the kind of patients
I get as a rule, the kind that are sent
home to die. His father came to me and
asked if I would look at the boy. I
said, "Yes." They lived out in the other
end of town, and as they were bringing
him to my office you could hear him
blocks away, screaming with pain. He had
two holes drilled in the bones for the
pus to drain. I started to work on him.
I worked on him three weeks. At the end
of the second week the pain stopped, and
at the end of the third week the hole in
one arm was closed 'up. Then I had to go
to Colorado on some business and one of
my assistants took the job. I came back
and worked with him another weelc :..and
turned him over to yet another assistant.
we started on him the first of September,
and the first of January he s,tartea to
school and was feeling pretty well. :t:
heard, the last time I was in Oklaho1'}a
City, that he is perfectly normal; does-
not have a thing the matter with him. we
killed those, germs by magnetic emana-
tions accompanied by the willed thought
for the germs to be destroyed. I thought
that it would be interesting to show that
you can work on children the same as you
can on grown people. The child was in
too much pain to have any faith or know
what the word meant.
- 55 -
I knowsome doctors· that would go
any place day or nign.t., whether .. th~y
'knew they we~e. going to get a fee or not.,
but thel.'e . are others .. who. are not so
·hwnatie. ; I was called one night ·for an
emergency case.' The person was in a very
bad condition. She.needed an operation
within the next twelve hours. I had no
authority· to pass on the case ano re-
ferred them to the hospital. I asked
them if they had a doc tor; they d.1d not.
I said~ "It is b~st to have· a doctor pass
o.nit.," so I called up a m~d1cal ex.change
and asked for a doctor. They connected
nie with one an/3. he ,sa·id., "My fee ·1s ten
dp1lars .11 · wheri he· ~ang the be.l)., I an-
swered the· door and sa1d., 11come. in doc-
tor.". :aefore he stepped' inside the' door.,
he said., . "no you have· my fee? 11 • I ·said.,
"Yes., doctor.," and s·ocked him on the jaw
as hard as I. could·. what he. ne_eded was
.a lesson. · The only thing he knew .. was
·~oney or physical force .. :tn an emergency
c_ase a person. who is a he.aler., or doctor.,
cannot ~top· to. quest1o·n_ whether· they are
going to get a f_ee·for it or not.·· I sup-
pose he .ha<! been called out sometimes• at
n:1.gbt and had. not rece;tved a fee. He had
no business being a doctor; . h~ shoula have
been ousted from the·medica.l profession.
I have met other a6ctors who would walk
a mi_le., or ten., in snow ~·ten feet deep
whether they received a fe~ or not.
Pituitary treatment for painful men-
struation is wonderfully· effective and
is usu.ally given in connection wi.th thy-
roid treatment.
- 56
sometimes too· great a secretion ·of
pi tu1.tr1n., instead of cat,1.sing giant ism.,
cause~ a person tp become ~mensely fat ..
The j;?yroid gland: l,~ one of the· mo:;1t
important· in the endocrine system. It is
regarded as· one. of . the chief defenders
or the endocrine chain; perhaps b~cause
tnore· of its ' functions ar~ known~. . The
thyroid has many· functions to perform :·1n
the body., as it largely affects growth~
both m.ental and·physical. .It controls
some or the brea~ing down of food mater-
ials.,·particularly albumen. The thyroid
hormone has a great influence over ·the
resistance· to bodily ·a:tsease. · ·
· · It all' the pois·ori that passed through
the liver'in twenty-four'hours was
accum~
ulated 'and .taken into the system.,. it
WC>UlQkill you :i.n an hour. ·· An
illus·tra-
tion or the· body's adaptability is· sho,~ri
in a story written·by Hawthorne: It tells
about a .professor in Italy., ~;ho :had
raised his' daughter': onpoison., SO·that
by the time she.·· was . grown., even .her
breath 1J·ould withe·r a flower. ·· A person
over a period of years could assimilate
poison·until · they became immune to it.
Some people have become immune to rattle..;.
snake bite. ·
I have a most effective method ·tor
stopping· ·constipation., that is this ex-
ercise: stand erect.,· hands ori' hips., raise
the abdomen by muscular effort and then
relax,; 'at the. same ·time., pulling to the
left and down. · Pull ·to the. ·righ·t. side.
and .Up., then repeat I USing. a rotary mO•.
- 57 -
tion from left to right.
Skin eruptions and many minor skin
diseases, are often caused by the thy-
roid. Personally, I do not think that a
thyroid should ever be removed.
people with thyroid deficiency are
born tired. They sleep on the job and
are lazy. Thyroid disfunction causes
many cases of insanity, because it is
closely related to the nervous and sexual
system. 'Most common colds are the result
of the lack of thyroxin in the system.
That is why the thyroid gland needs a
little stimulation to give us more re-
sistance to common colas. A cold is
specifically a germ disease, but the ~erm
will not propagate to the point where it
manifests as a cold, if there is enough
secretion.of thyroxin. Actually the germ
comes in but the forces which give us
resistance, attack it. Everyone of us
have the germs of almost every -known
disease. The germs are there but our
system keeps them from propagating. I
have, examined specimens of blood from
normal, healthy human beings, and in one
drop of blood I have seen the germs of
meas·1es, small pox, and numerous other
diseases; and yet those persons them-
selves never had any of these diseases.
It is not as easy to transmit dis-
e~se by germ carrying as it once was,
but there are some very famous typhoid
carriers like the woman.known as. "typhoid
Mary."' Invariably at any time she was
in a room full of people, those people
- 58 -
woulrl get typhoid, yet she herself felt
no 11-1 effects from it, whatsoever.
Finally they had to isolate her. As far
as the germ carrier theory is concerned,
they knew· this: That it is not nearly as
easy now to contact the tilsease, and that
1t usually requires some personal contact
such as the sputum, etc., and then when
the resistance has been allowed to become
low to the disease. However, it can be
transferred in many other ways. Now, of
course, they have learned how to control
those things to a great degree. For in-
stance, I may have people come to me for
treatments with a hunored dif-
ferent things the matter with them. I
know· that I will not get any of those
things, yet r take precaution, for the
next person I treat, or meet, might be
susceptible to it.
The thyroid may be removed without
causing death, but unless thyroid extract
is given it might cause enlarging ano
thickening of the hands, and make the
person highly-nervous. The greatest ef-
fect from removal of the thyroid is upon
the nervous system, · especially in the
case of a woman who has been more or less
nervous to begin with.
Acioosis is frequently caused by
inactivity of the thyroin. weusually
find that where there is an acid condi-
tion in the stomach that does not answer
to treatment, that it is caused by thy-
roia ae f 1ciency.
Epilepsy is often caused by thyroid
disorder. It is true that medical science
- 59 -
has learned little .· in the treatment of
Epilep~y.- The thyroid is li~e a blanket
across the Adam's apple. It ordinarily
cons,ists of .two lobes but sometimes there
are extensions tha.t run a):l the_w~y do~n.
behind the sternum .or breast-bo·ne. · when
1.t. is that ..far. down, it 1s almost im-
possible for the physician, to remove it.
sometimes one lobe is entirely missing;
but. :lf. the -one lobe is -suf:ficiently a:c-
tive;, 1t does not seem to make any dif-
ference in the body. The _thyroid :is ex-
tremely important in the devel-opment of
man, from the embryon-ic state to that of,
the child, and from the child to man.
you can :remove a thyroid f-rom a tadpole
an:d it ·will· always remain· a tadpole. · It
will .gr()w and. get as big .as a frog., but -
it never sheds its tail like an. -ordinary_
tadpole does. ·
I want to tell. you one thin~_ --apout
the tonsils that is· different:. from any
other organ. sometimes they.- grow back:
aga_in after being removed. . ·It is the
only organ that does this. ·The reason
f.or this is, that it. is so closely re-
lated · to·., the invertebrate, especially
the fish. The tonsils will replace them-
selves sometimes, not always, because
some people are physically, little fur-
ther removed in power of mutation. from
the source of: things.·
we-know that eve~y .form of life
upon,' the globe evolut~d tr_pm the original
one.;.celled animalcule. the amo.eba.•: we
look at it under a microscope., .. yet do
not see any indicati.on of r.~~h,.snake ..,
~ 60.;
bird., horse., or man, and yet one of those
single cells has within it the poten-
tiality of being a huma·n., physical form.
It is the bud of animal life; it evolves
farther and farther. when the .·human em-
bryo is born it passe·s through four teen
successive stages. The features· of a
bird are nothing more or less .that the
evolution of the s.cales · of the snake or
fish. The dog-headed boy. and .other
freaks, are formed be-cause mutation of
the embryo has been par.tly s--to.pped in
one of 1ts lower stages. Arl parts have
not evolved·· as rar as the rest of the
body, which is formed with the partial
characteris.tics. of the lower specie. The
two things~ soul and body, movec, along
two aive:;.."gent paths of evolution; the
body along one ·path., and the soul moving
along another., until the body b&came man
and they joined. From then on they moved
together, soul and man, the animal.
The de fie iency in thyroid: funct·ion.,
in connection with pituitary de.fic.iency,
causes the cretins that I mentioned be-
fore. usually, thyroid def'icienc-y- is
present at ·the same time that pi.tuitary
deficiency is. In .most cases ,of. glandu-
lar conrJitlons that come to us,_ there, are
from ttio to 'three glands that are not
functioning. properly., because they are
really linked in ·a chain. That is the·
reason that anatomically speaking, they
call them the endocrine ·chain •
. QUESTION:_
Which are t.he three glanr3s
that cause the most disturbances? AN-
SWER: I think the pituitary, thyroid, and
- 61 -
adrenals. The activating principle of
the thyroid hormone is thyroxin, a crys-
talline compound. Actually, the active
part of the thyroxin is the iodine se-
cretion. It is only the thyroid that
secretes thyroxin, and the iodine in the
secretion is what helps to make normal
bodies, and regulates the nervous con-
dition, etc. some foods can give us some
iodine, but it· is hard to fin~ one that
contains enough.
QUESTION:Will you talk about epil-
epsy a little more? ANSWER:
Most of you
know what it is like. Epileptics are
apparently normal one moment, then they
will be thrown into convulsions and fall
over in a fit with eyes rolled back. You
have all seen a cat or dog. in a fit. A
person with epilepsy is- like that. It
may start· at intervals of months and
finally get closer and.closer together.
I had a case of epilepsy; a boy fifteen
years old, rather a sad case because the
boy was taken at a stage when he could
easlly have been cured. His mother brought
him to me. He was having a spell about
two or three times a week when I started
to work on him. I had worked on him for
about six weeks and· he had not had a
spell for about three weeks. His mother
came .to me and said they were going to
the mountains. .I to"ld her that she had
better not take him to the mountains as
it was dangerous. He wasn't cured yet
and climbing mountains and being around
water would be hazardous. she said, "He
will be all right.'' I said, "Promise me
you will not let him get close to water."
- 62
The motion of water seems to affect them,
and throw them into the epileptic fits.
She paid no attention, because a week
later a friend called me up and told me
the boy had drowned. The real cause of
epilepsy is found in the pituitary gland
and thyroid. I have healed all of the
cases of epilepsy that I have had a
chance to work with for six months, and
I have found that thyroid and pituitary
treatment is the thing to give. I will
te 11 you this: That I always use magnetic
treatment on glandular disfunctions. They
are very sensitive and easily affected,
either by increasing or decreasing the
flow of magnetism.
The thymus is a small gland situated
behinti the sternum Qr breast-bone. It is
the center that so many occultists call
the heart center. It dominates the growth
in childhood, and usually atrophies at
th2 ··age of eighteen or t'IJ,·enty. Activity
of this gland after this period· is very
likely to cause lack of mature develop-
ment. To medical science there has al-
ways been an element of mystery as to
the functions of :the thym·:s. Ti".~ chief
function of this gla.nd, physicall;:-i,- speak-
ing, is the metabolism of mineral salts,
especially lime and phm;r: ·)rus. one of
the most important facts in connection
with the thymus, is its relation to im-
becility in children. we Live fouri that
ninety-nine per cent of all children that
have been affected with cretinism have
had either no thymus, or only~ very
rudimentary one. wefind this condition
always in a case where there is a aefin-
- 63 -
ite dwarfism accompanying it. It also
has some effect ·upon the reduction of
the coagulability of tlE blood. wealways
find an undeveloped thymus in cases ·of
hemophilia., a condition where blood will
not coagulate. we say that such cases
are caused by too much of one of the thy-
mus secretions. we find often that those
children who bleed very easily and pro-
fusely from the nose are having too much
thymus secretion. usually that is regu-
lated after they become adolescent.
QUESTION: would that have anything
to ao with anemia cases? ANSWER: No.,
that has more to do with the spleen. The·
thymus has a special relationship to the
skeletal structure of the body. It helps
to free the lime which is· used to build
the struct"ure. If there is a lack of
secretion in childhood., there is a soft-
ening of the bones an'1 mental and physi-
cal decay. ·
The parathyroids are the smallest
of all the glands., but by no me.ans the
least impo~tant. There are four of them .
. usually they· are imbedded alongside the
·thyroid gland in a little folrl. rt is
tlle secretion of these glands whi.ch act1-
va te the production of stibstanc·es that
removes the . toxic poisons which destroy
tissue. The parathyroids neutralize those
particular poisons. That is one of the
reasons tha.t. if they are removed., the
person is liable .to die very quickly.
These products have a special affinity
for· the nervous system. It is known that
the parathyroids exert a profound· in-
- 64 -
fluence upon the nervous system, and re-
moval of two or three of these almost
invariably causes tetanus. They are us-
ing parathyroid hormone now as an -anti-
toxin for tetanus. They have ·also found
that 'for nervous palsy, parathyroid ex-
tract will act almost miraculously. They
have· used it also in epilepsy., but have
not been able to affect a cure by the
use of it. There is very little known of
the parathyroids., but they are very im-
portant. Wit.hout them the body be comes
filled with poisons., tissues decay rapid-
ly., an1 most of the violent ·germs in-
crease with extreme rapidity. we donot
have much trou.ble with the parathyroids.
The pancreas., . are not., strictly
speaking., an inaocrine gland. rt fur.-
nishes an important digestive ferment,
also a substance called insulin ror· in-
creasing sugar oxidation. The pancreas
themselves are divided into several sec..;
tions; _different parts of them secrete
different hormones that are used by the·
body for various purposes_. A lack of
functioning power in these cells., whether:
becaus.e of actual .degeneration in- the
structures themselves., or decrease in·
this ·oxidizing pcwer due to the iri.fluence
of toxins generated ·1n the· intestines
and absorbed .into the blood stream., is.,
without doubt., the determining factor in
diabetes. we know that when that energy
is· not extracted there is · a greater
amount of waste that is going to finally
cause poison to generate· there.
we were speaking Just a moment ag~
- 65 -
about anemia. There is a combination of
four places that we work for anemia, the
pancreas, spleen, ·11ver, and aarenals
are all points of treatment. Another
disease that we have manifesting quite
often is Bright's disease which should
be treated by a combination of pancreas,
adrenals, and thyroid treatment. when
the stomach burns, the pancreas are not
functioning properly. The use of milk
of magnesia, and bismuth will ease the
symptoms but will not reach the cause.
BY stimulating the pancreas, oxidation
is increased and we eliminate the pain.
In all cases of stomach ulcers, a strong
treatment on the pancreas is advisable.
Chronic headaches are often symptoms of
lack of.secretion of the pancreas, but
most of the time chronic headaches are
caused by stoppage of the sinus passages.
The spleen is a manufacturer of red
blood corpuscles. It manufactures, in
the embryonic Dorm, all the red blood
corpuscles. sometimes it carries on in
childhood and then stops for a period.
In cases of anemia the spleen is supposed
to resume its functioning of building
red blood corpuscles. Sometimes it does
not do it. In transfusion, the splenic
treatment should be given so· that the
body itself can make its own blood. In
cases of hemorrhage of the lungs, we
have to find where the rupture is allow-
ing the hemorrhage to take place and,
treat that condition to shut it off. we
have to block off the blood vessels and
'then release them, every once in awhile,
for the blood to flow back. In the pro-
- 66 -
• cess of digestion the spleen throbs with
a beat of its own. The average pulsa-
tion of the blood in the brain is about
fourteen to a minute. The best of the
spleen is considerably faster than that,
about half the beat of the heart.
There is a prize fighter who has to
box two rounds before a fight, or he will
be too slow in getting started. Every--
body beat him till his manager found out
what was the matter with him. He got a
good manager who knew enough about the
human body to know what to ao.
The spleen is a very peculiar gland·
and actually is one of the most important
of all the glands. Every gland is im-
portant for that matter, because with
any of them missing the body aoes not
function as it should.
The adrenal glands or suprarenals,
as they are sometimes called; are two
small bodies placed like little caps on
top of the-kidneys. There are two of
them, sometimes more. one of those glands
can be removed and the one left can some-
times function perfectly without any dis-
order in the body. so.me
times, in. that
case, auxiliary suprarenal glands will
grow to normal size. one or the simplest
ways to tell adrenal deficiency is to
araw the finger nail along the abdomen.
and if there is a deficiency, a white
line will remain. ordinarily if you do
that the line will turn red, but. with
rteficiency of adrenalin in the blood
stream it will leave a white line that
- 67 -
will remain for sometime. one .of the !
specific diseases that is caused · by
adrenal disfunction, is Addison disease,
a condition of the adrenal glands. we
find quite a few people in the deep south
that are afflicted with Addison's disease.
The adrenals are also, psychically speak-
ing, the seat of the emotions. perhaps,
sometimes when you have been startled,
or had a momentary fear, or been angry
for awhile, you have afterwards had· a
llgone feeling" in the solar plexus, a
tightness and dryness in the throat, and
an ache. in the small of the back. why?
Because the adrenals have supplied added
secretion to the blood, and. it takes a
little time for it to regain a normal
balar ..
ce. · Adrenal treatment is sometimes
used in treating cases of asthma because
the adrenalin has a direct effect upon
the contraction of tissue. The main
trouble in asthma is because the tissues
expand and swell. we find nearly always··
in chronic stomach trouble of any kind
that there is an improper functioning of
the adrenal glands.· This also has to do
With ulcers and indigestion.
They use adrenalin to.stimulate the
heart, even in cases when th~ heart has
ceased to beat. you may know, or not,
that a rine enough·needle cap puncture
the heart ''and still . not injure· it suf-
ficiently to cause death. They use adren-
alin injection directly into the heart,
to revive a person who has died from
drowning, electric shock, and many othe.r
__
things. The shock that 1t conveys to· the
nervous.system will cause a quick flow
- 68 -
of adrenalin into the blood stream, and
after they have injected it they massage
the chest, pumping air into the lungs. I
have known cases where they have even
opened the chest an1 massaged the heart.
From 1/lOOth ..
to 2/lOOth of a milligram
is injected in solution; but that .is -a
whole lot in proportion to what there
actually is in the blood stream. In the
use of electric apparatus, they found
that gamma rays directed to those adrenal
glands give a very marked effect. Lack
of secretion of adrenalin into the blOOd
stream, is one. of the causes of low
blooo pressure. An increase of adrenalin
into the blood stream may cause high
blood pressure. The slowing down of
adrenalin secretion in cases of high
blood pressure, usually causes rapi,d re·-
sul ts. I took one woman who had not
worked for six months, because she had
high blo.oa pressure, and s.ent · her. back
to work in six days.
The liver, another important gland, ..
is one that causes a great deal 9f trouble
if not secreting properly. A torpid liver
can cause a condition of the general
system that will result in a gen~ral
toxic condition of the blood and cells,.
as deadly as any other poisoning. At
least one-fourth of the blood in the body
passes through the liver, and if the
proper ·secretion :ts not given into the
blood stream, the entire body will be
poisoned. nark spots on the skin are
usually a sign of a liver that is not
functioning properly. For any improper
function of the liver, magnetic treatment
- 69 -
is always used~
The gonads,· the testes in the male·
and the ovaries in ·the female, are ·the.
most important of all -the glands of the
body. Many cases that ·seem to have no
connection with the 'sex· ·glanrts, are fun-
damentally caused by_.sexual disorders.
--Many of . the .phobias or..fears . are·
directly . connected -w1·th -sex gland dis-:
orders. Rubin gives a case of a girl who
cfame to him :.for . trea,tment. .· She had a
pulse o:f 16o,. blooo pres.sure o:f 85, and
almost- every phobia :·that a - human could.
have • She had a .:fear· of high p.lace s, :-a:
fear of running water~ of wind, storm,
thunder., lightning, of strangers:, of the.
dark, and fear· -of. somethin·g .f.all1ng ·on
her·. She could not cross a- street.,· un--
less someone' held he'r· by the· hand. She-
only weighed one' hundr'f!d- pounds, her hair·'
was lusterless, her . complexion· like ·a-
corpse. After being treated for an ova-
rian and adrenal~ coni11tion for, a. month.,
she gained eleve·n pounds; her complexion
cleared./ her skin 'became. soft., her blooo.
pre-ssure and pulse· became ·normal, anti the
nightmare of: fears was -dissipaten.
1 :· •• • •
.Popularly,. ·the gonads have· 'been
looked upon as ,glands ·of ·1nternal secre-
tion, · but; the most imp·ortant internal
secret·ion has 0 beert entirely· overloo~ea.
No thing more:· completely cha.nges the ·en-
tire human ·organism;: ·than the removal or
atrophy of. 'these;· the master. ·glands o,f
internal secretion. such. loss. seldom
causes' death; ·-though the ·one who loses·
--10 -
the gonads almost invariably loses their
vivacity_ and become -sluggish and fat.
Normal heal thy life is almost impossible
without the-proper functioning of these
glan~s. ·
· The removal of the sexual glands
will produce a pro,founa· ·.change in the
organism1 wh,ich oauses alterations or
the entire physical body. The so-called
secondary sexual characters may fail to
exhibit themselves in the usual manner 1
and thus occasion the retention of in-
fantile characteristics in place pf typ-
ical features of: adult form and behaviqr.
castration ·after pubt?rty cannot mod."'."
ify profoundly the a~velopment. of strt1c ...
tures like -the s~eleton1 but 1:t i;nay
..bring
about structural ,and functional ch~nges
-Which can be determined . by careful o"Q-
serva ti on·. ·
··· There is :a remarkable cooperating
influence between .. the_· thyroid. and the
gonads. · When one hae thyroid . trauble,.
almost invariably some disor~er-of the
gonads is also present. Menstrual de-
rangement· is almost. always··. caused by
ovarian and thyroid ·_trouble. : ova:riat1
rtisfunction, which is . the. ·,moat c9mmon
glandular deficiency ·among :women1 is the
basis ;of more.functional-disorder tha.n
any othe.r five-. The. sex, glands., partlc..:.
ularly the ovarie~1 icexer:t, a. prqfoµnd 1n...
fluence upon some. tunct.ion which tends
to cause changes }n: b.lood, pressure. ·.This
facto~ is, ·especially noticeable in wi.>men
befor~ ant'I dur.1ng .tl'le. men9.pau~~. · ~ w~~n
- 71 -
the ovaries are functioning properly the
disposition is usually good. The voice,
while not distinctly a sex characteris-
tic, is a very good iniiication of' the
sexual virility of the singer. one who
has a fine tonal quality is usually found
to be very well developed sexually.
Stimulation of the gonads has been found
to wonderfully improve the voice of
singers.
If we could only realize the full
importance that sex has in the lives of
every normal man anrl woman, we could more
fully realize the importance of the
proper functioning of the sex glands.
Ninety-five. per. cent of all marriages
culminate in the divorce court because
there is abnormal or subnormal function-
ing of the sex gl~nde of one or both
parties. False morlesty has kept these
facts from being generally known, but
every doctor knows it to be so. proper
gland treatment and education in sexual
knowledge would obviate a great ~eal of
this trouble.
when the sex glands are not normally
developed there is always a ·repression
or complex that expresses itself in one
way or another. This causes fears or
phobias of one .sort ·· or, another to in-
fluence the thoughts, unt.11 the person
is so bound that they find it impossible
to escape. Many girls go through life
suffering untold agonies at their men-
strual .period because. of ovarian and
thyroid trouble. I have found in hundreds
- 72 -
of cases that all our ·· sexuai d:is"funci'-
tions are about ·nihe ty-.fL\re ·per. c~rit
mental, and the othar .five pe~ cent :fir~m
la'ck of proper c·ireulation of' ·the- b-lQ'o'd.
tn trea trrient of the_se ailment~, magnetic
t-reatment -is alwa-y's- tiffed, ·:1.ri
'connect'io:n
with suggestion _an~ menta·1 trea-tme~t. ·
There are; many misconceptions, 'about
stomach disorders·.· when they . say the
stomach has :ra1,1en., it is seldom that the
stomach itself:"' can dr-0p ·be-cause 1t· ls
fastened -wi~h ·so -many tis sties and· liga~
ments. sometimes we have' what we ca11·a
prolaps·1s~ where - the. transverse colotr is
pulled a·own
ana the secretions'. c·log_ ana
p~vent proper pass-age in the colon. o-tt
-is a. very .bad thing ';ttor- the· S'tomach or
liver',t·o fall. · one.:lobe or part of:' :tne
liver can collapse, , hut , the liver': ls
fastened by one . or: the large·st musc-le-s
of the entire body. It is impossible for
·it· to·: break l.oose~ w:ithout ·.tear.itig the
whole i:ns ide · out._ some
t.imes--.the re .is a
lack of secretion of bi.le ,, in.to:::the' in-
testine·s, to furnish ·the material. to a.1s..:
pose of the waste. sometimes we··· flnd
prolapsis of the. colon-. The reason that
that. happens is usually because: of·: irn...
proper breathing, allowing of. the stomach
muscles to· sag,- and perhaps· cons.tipation
over a long pertod or time. -· · ··
·.
. ,;
I hat1.a·case; not a very. long time·
ago~ a lady· who had a prolapsed trans-
verse colon, ·was··troubled with··constipa ...
tion, .·an1 ·-had· so much· toxic· poison. ih
her system that she was bloated a:rgre:at
t1eal. The first. thing, to··"dO -to relieve
- 73 -
the conaiti<;>n was to raise those organs
to the proper position. There should be
:-a light diet., an e:t,irnination of most- of
th~ acid foods., the use of a lot of fruit
juices, and broiled meats only; that is.,
.for a period, till the colon gets back
to normal. After it becomes normal they
can resume a more var:i.ea diet. In treat-
ing a specific case of this kind, I have
found that I either have to do it with
my hands, or make the patient do most of
it themselves. I have straightened out
such a condition in about six weeks time.
In thi first place., I give- them a little
muscular exercise, previous.ly mentioned.,
:for elimination, and for the streng:then-
ing of the muscles that control the evac-
uation processes of the stomach.• Enemas,
instead· or strengthening, remove the
normal motion and function of those
muscles and weaken them.
I -usually do this exercise in: the
morning .-.when I first get up., and maybe
sometimes late in~ the· evening. again·.·
This motion · itself· will help to pull.,
and straighten the organs to. the proper
position. The person_who is working on
themselves should place their hands to
the right side of the liver and pull up.
Then after doing this, take a deep breath.
•· ··when you lift up., that pulls the trans-
verse colon straight. Then the deep
breath that you take comes up., stretches
and pulls the colon to the position that
it should be in. I assist that with
magnetic treatment. The gall bladder
condition is ·a secondary symptom from
disfunction of the liver., and we fina,· 1n
- 74 -
.that case,. .that many times, low blood
pressure accompanies it; s_o_we work upon
the adrenal glarias for increased secre-
.tion, which helps to eliminate the low
blood pressure.
varicose veins c_omeabout f'rom sev-
-eral contiitions. sometimes we fin1 ver-
icose veins in women after childbirth;"
from poor circulation or congested~ brp-
keh veins, that stop the flow of blood.
In treatment of this condition it is al-
ways best to give magnetic treat.ment on
those varicose veins themselves. I have
seen cases where there nave b~en open
sores :running for months_ and even years.
QUESTION: Is it advisable to cut
them out? ANSWER:I do not think so. , I
t~1.l you frc1nkly, it is only in the ut-
most 'emergency that .I advise that method-'.
Tuberctilosis, of_ cours~, we know is
a germ disease. Tube.rculosis is usually
associated with :the· 1ungs, but as a mat;..
ter of fact it can manif.~st any place in
the b:oay. we have tuberculosis .or the
lungs, 'stomach, intest,ines, anti some-
times tuberculosis of the adrenals and
sexual organs·. _It might bre.ak out: any-_
where. In the popular mind ft always is
associated with the lungs. A person of-
ten goes a long way in the development
of the disease before they know they
have lt ._ The tuberculosis germ ,!ievelops
'+,n the blood stream beca-use of the lack
of adrenalin in the blood. In. all cases
the.first 'treatment to give·1s an ip-
crease of the secretion of _adrena,lin.
- 75 -~
Next 1~ to ·work upon the pituitary_, · .arid
·the place. whe;re it_ is .manifesting local-
ly ..... l us.e m·agnetic treatment in tuber-
cti1os 1·s
. · ·< · · · • · · • -·
QUEST.ION: Hqw abo:ut treating tuber-
culosis , at· a di~tance? ANSWER: These
treatmE?nts t am.· giving ·now · are all for
WO,Jtking_on people first· .han,d, but later
·in _this book I wil). give you some_ ·s_p¢-
_ciflc methods for treating at a distance.
· The rup.ture, ror ~nstance, ·iscaused
py some_·. strain and :'the ligaments· . ~re
torn; or_ pulled. Tile tea.r comes and. aoes
not ·heal. :tn a11·the ·cases of rupture
that I have treated, I have f.ound, that
we must reqti.ire as little·. physical ac-
t.1v·1ty as poss1.ble. A tennis player cam~
, tq. me _with a ruptµre, and I ·started with
magnetic treatment ·and also used a cer-
tain form of soul power for tile cr(;!ation,
r~building,. ari,a.
rerp,olii1ng of the muscles!
Fdl' physical s~pt9rris, · ..I. nearly alwa.yf3
use magne_tic ·treatmept. becaµse :;r can
c·onvey · my,_.thqught-picture· through tha't
force·; ~ut I then. use· spiritual treat-
ment··
ror creati.n({ nev.r tissue '. in' broken
or_ di$eased cells,. or parts of the pody.
,The· first treatment is always magnetic •.
:·.QUES'rION:· I~. t~ere an exerc·11:1e·that
,yqu can <:Joro_r rup~ure? ANSW;ER:
I .think
l,ying on the b,aclt . is b~st ·for· rupture:.
A p~rson who ta)ces· too··rnuch exercis'3. in
rupture .:is liable to take the wrong :twis,t
and pull, ~-'t.,.whe:re it · shpuld be left
a.lone.... we want them· to use as littl,e
exercise as they .can and especially no
extremely heavy lifting or pulli~ •
., QUESTION: co4ld tenniS playing cause
rupture in, the first 'pl.ace? ANSWER:yes,
bu..t ·1n this case it did not. very·- few
people know how to lift a heavy weight.
Rupture is torn muscles in a place .where
it 9.oes not heal quickTy;. u>s:ears over
and then it ·is hard ,f01'.' it· t:o hear. First
I work t_o dissol.ve the··scar- tis-sue wl'iich
has formed, then use·magneti,c-~atment-
with the thC>ught. and w:fll . td dis:solve
the· scar tissue~ _I ~lway); ge,t a perfect
nienta l pic·ture in ··my mind; will and
thoug;ht before I aena"· the flow of ·mag-
netic current out. ·
For drawing in ~agnetic force, or
magri.e.tic current~- I· give a· number of ex-
ercises which will be f-ouno 'to be ef.;;;;
fec·tual-~ . certain (,nes,. , such' as ex:pan.;.;
s ion ant1 coritraction or· the solar plexus,
always helps to build up:our ownstrength
an'1 energy. we_know that every one·or ~s
is a potential channe:J. for healing· anrJ
magnetic power, · co_nveying thougnt, or
or.lie force ·with it .. · oaic force is the·
brain cell sensitizer;· tiny particles of
it are oischarget'I with every thought that
you have. If you will think of a stream
of force or energy ·fi-owing throubh ·your
right .hanr'i . and.· c-onveyi:n 6 the -magmftic
current, you ·can sena along with it ·the
thought of the ·thing that you wish- to.
accomplish. You can holii your-hanas five
feet .from the b"ody and do it~ t t'oti can
holr1 your han_c]S ,·even
ten "feet away from
the body o • wnen YOU direct ft there I the
streams of magnetic. force . riotf out -of
- 77 -
'·
the hanrJ., itirect.ed by your will into that
person 1 s borly, carrying the odic force
with your perfecter'! thought. The person
you are treating hasn't learned to senrJ
their thought force to that particular
part of the bo1y with the creative
thought. You can senrJ the thought of re-
building and recreating, and at the same
time that you oo so, you must help to
arouse i.n their mlnd the same thou~ht.
You do. not want them to fight you. If
they will aid ana assist you by willing
and thinking the. same thing that you are,
then you ao not have that to battle.
There· are several little tricks in build-
ing up current and sending it out through
your body. ,
. A little· trick of centering my
thought on the right hana is this: I
think with all my might on the right arm,
I try to fee 1 · with all my force the
power in the hanr'J and arm anr'J to help
center my attention and ~hought on it,
I tense those muscles. you cannot tense
the muscles without thinking of the arm
and hand. It is merely a mental trick to
focus your thought and will in the place
that you want to reach. I finr'J that many
ttmes the person who is beginning mag-
netic healing finos it better to allow
this vibration to proceerJ ~hile they are
6iving the treatment, though it is not
necessary. You might be able to r'fo it
without that, but some find it ains. AS
a matter of fact you do not have to use
the hand. You can send all the power
from your right eye, if you wish to. we
have found this: That the use of the
- 78 -
hann, by suspen~ing it over the place
that is to be treatea, is more effective,
because the person feels that more is
being done, than if you just look at
them. It helps to arouse more receptiv-
ity.
People have come to me saying that
they were feeling very banly and haa
been feeling so for several aays, an1 by
the time they were ready to go they woul«i
be fee 1ing gooo. Why? They ,u,1 not know
it, but when they tol,, me what was the
matter I woula convey one of those treat-
ments to them without letting them know
what was being aone. The right side is
the one we sen~ the force from, the left
hanc1 is the one we araw from. Sometimes
when talking to some person that is in
,,eep trouble you can soothe the emotions
an~ mina, by sen'1ing a strong flow 9f
the positive current to them, inhalif).g
through the right nostril at the sarµe
time. Be sure you are breathing through
the right nostril before you give a
treatment. If I am going to give an in-
ternal, positive, magnetic bath for ttje
elimination of physical cont1itions, 'I
always start by breathing for five min-
utes through the right nostril and then
five minutes through the left, then force
the breath evenly through both nostrils.,
then with my eyes closea, I center the
consciousness between the eyes, where it
automatically centers upon ~the pituitary
glanrJ. Then rapic1ly, I move my thought,
my consciousness., up and nown my boa~,
about ten times. I call this a magnetic
bath, or a bath of consciousness, and
- 79 -
afte_r doing this .I _center my. conscious~
ness between my eyes and then move it to
the particular· part of my botiy that I
want to focalize on. I try to feel as
if' between my eyes, was a whirling dyna-
mo of power, and I cause that to seno
out a single tiny streamer of force with
the thought of what -.-I want to oo to the
part of the body_ I want to work on. I
picture that part in the conrtition ·I want
it to 'Qein, the conrtition tnat I want
manifesteo there. '];'hen,· whethe:i;> I am
sending. it to my ow·n . body .or that of
another person, I try to see it as if it
were-moving very slowly. If I want to
increase. secretion, I will· for it to in-
crease. ,The.n I center as much of my at-
tention upon that particular part of the
body as I can,·, and still try to holrJ at
the same_time, the thought of the partic-
ular function.that I want to arou~e just
as I want to arouse. it. The first thing
to ·do is ·to get the mental image of the
thing you want. How could I w11i for a
thing to be cured, if I did not know. how
1t looked? That is the reas·on I recom-
mend the stuoy, of at least some of the
major functions of the anatomy, for the
student of me0 taphysical healing.
QUESTION: rs 1t -necessary to senti
the word or just the picture of it?
ANSWER:We use words of power in another
form of healing; . not magnetic healing.
Magnet_ic force .._only conveys reacticms,
reflections and pictures. Take the-.case
of a pr,q:Iapsed colon. A_tthe same· time
I _use the physical treatment,. I will use
a magnetic treatment on my own self.
- 80 -
Then. when· I sena my. thought to that Place
I :f.~cns my tn,ought, and:witb it,, my.will
. for healing, . tha.t is·, my. thought· -·for
healing, with the normal and' .. perfect
picture.
. .
we .tJo ·not .'1eny ..that. a:thing -is :·dis·-
·easeci ~- -.TO .,do' so , .-woBld,·be ·to i1e.ny,··the
truth, and~ the second part of -oun.work
-wtLt :~ot >do any. good.·· we.·a-ccept .. the
·-canr:it,io,n ·as. it, 1.s. :~ we se.e. the::.pi:ctur.e
-as ri:t is. If .we-defnY>afiy as:pect of truth,
.,-we:
canno.t expect,~- the :tru-th·. ·:t.o·work,,,for
,.us. If ·we t_ake. a .part, ot .truth.;.: a-nri:oeny
·that truth, _ then how can we::e~e'c.t··:an,--
otner par.t ,of truth ·to wor-k:-for us?-'.· we
s-ay yes.-; we .do not: affirm that· which- ftioes
not exist. · _ ..
. .
I ao not deny the truth · that· -the
colon is prolapsed. I accept that con-
dition., but·iI· dO not: accept. .the fac:t ·that
it· has<t0. ·remain·:there. -. The only· t-ools-
tl1a-t man .has-,: to. reco~nize: a .-thing with.:,
ar~ ,·his power of reason and.. his sens.es,
If I ta,ke a1knife :anr1 _cut the body, .open.,··
I -w1,.11:.:fin1 that.,condit1on t:~,:.: . we
w.ill .·say that . the pro laps us is there.,
in~tead of saying that prolapsus 1-s· not .
th8re. In the mental image,· L hav.e .first.··
seen it as prolapsus.. I g;-radti:a'11y take ,.
hold :with my mental fing~rs and f.ix it
with my 1;hought, then with a11, my will-,,
r conceYl.trate on tne pic.ture- of· the con_•
t1ition-_ l. wish· to. man1fee.t •.
,·.
The thought force flows. along the·
magnetic, .nerve current,, ..
and c:los~s,. or
shut~ off,. just as:tnY- brain will.a. it: to.;;
- 81. -
Maybe that impreBsion is not strong
enough the first time., but each time I
send it., it gets stronger, until it fin-
ally takes hold.
It is owing to the strength of 111y
will., the clearness with which I have
changed that condition in my mind that
the neaction is so strong that the pa-
tient is sick for two or three days, be-
cause my force is so much stronger than
their picture of sickness. I superim-
pose , the force of· positiveness against
their force of negativeness., and as a
result there is an upheaval. Next time
I send an impression, it takes a aeeper
hold. At the same time that I am doing
it, I try to relax their mind to mentally
accept the con1ition that I am imposing
there.
QUESTION: How long do you have· to
· p.old the picture there? ANSWER: The
thing to do is to get it there, but once
you get the ~press1on there turn it
loose, I leave the impression there. If
I have not got my image perfect the first
time, I do it again; and when I feel an
impact, then I know that it is taking
hold, or bouncing back. sometimes it
takes me five minutes to ~ake hold., some-
times it takes ten. I had one person
who fought with everything he had in him.
He said, "! want to be healed, but I am
a tough customer., 11 and that preconceived
image was difficult to break down.
QUESTION: when you do not feel the
first impression taking hold, then do
~·e.2-
you start all over again? ANSWER: yes •..
When I treat a person there is Just
one person that is going to say what is
to be done, and I am that one. When I go
into a place to treat anyone I send the
extra- people out. I usually find a way
to get rid of them because if they are
in the room fighting you; then you can-
not · ao anything. Each 'Soul is an in-
diviaual soul anrJ as long as ·they are
not in the room to distract me·by making
noises ·at the critical moment., that is
sufficient. You 'can have forty· people
outside the room not wanting that thing
to happen., but that will not bother you
because they have no direct power. The
average person has nothing but scattere·d
force. A person who has learned to di-
rect that force, can built! up an energy
that 1s strong enough. to resist an un-
directed force or thought. Magnetic force
is of two kinds., positive--antJ negative.,
either of which may be sent forth. MY
right draws. in the positive., and my left
the negative., so we try to balance its
polarity. A thing which is·balanced al-
ways has more force. This magnetic sys-
tem 1s easily brought under control after
a little practi~e.
I wonder if you remember., definite-
ly., the point that I Just brought out,
that is this: That denial of a thing is
proof that you.are actually that which
you are denying. Always recog~ize the
existence · of a thing knowing that the
Divine consciousness working through you.,
is able to change it into the order that
- 83 .:.
you wish_to manifest.
. ':fhe th.ing we are going to work with
:·now is.. ment1;1l aiagnosis. . Diagnosis is
hair th~ battle., in treating anything
that c(?mes to you. If: -a person comes to
you.with a spiritua1 111 it rtoe~ not do
.m1.1ch
good t~ give them a pp.ysical treat-
ment. What. yqq. .:want ·to:-d:o .is use . the
power., force., anr'I· laws of that .particul~r
plane that ..you.tare ~ealing with. -That is
the _reason thc1t some, metaphysical teach.-
ers have wonljer.ful success with some
cases_ and· fail with others.·.· The· ineta-
phys_ical t~acher tries ~o g~in the same
:result with op.e foZ'.ce., working on all
the planes., not knowing that he bas to
use. a law of the plane that ~he disease
or sickness is manifesting from, to leam
the cause of it.
•' we don't r:e:ally -need· fe:ver. machines.
',rake a piece of army G. I. so'ap, the size
of a walnut., put it under your ieft. arm
an'1 clamp it. down tight. You _can gener-
ate 10~:. to 104 degrees of fever that way..
In the army.., anybody that is on guarn
and wants t~_get a day off can do so by
using ~ piece. of ,G.I:• _soap in getting a
temperature. It is a light brown soap
and the only name by which I have heard
it called, is Q.r. It comes in big bars
and there .is something in its peculiar
chemical compound that. causes fever., if
it is. placed under the arm so that it
touches a certain nerve center. It doe~
not hurt at all, and is a purely physica,1
thing. ,
- 84 -
Metaphysical diagnosis is of the ut-
mpst -impor:tance to every healer:~ . It is
true. that we can often tell· from physi:;..
cal symptoms .just what the"condition is,.
but· sometimes we are doubtful of that
kind of di~gnosis.
sometimes we find that the in~ivia-
uals themselves are not able to properly
te 11 their symptoms; and some people have
symptomitis. I know some people, who
every time they read , the ads of -patent
medicines get . symptomitis. I know a
woman who was strong as a horse; but at
the same ti:me. always had something wrong
with her, and ,was always taking-medicine.
She was shocked. if.anyone drank liquor:
so a friend.· told her about a .· medicine
tha.t woulo really help her, and•gave her
a recipe for home brew and told her to
drink two bottles a day. She·: tola me
that it had helped.her- a great •deal. I
knew a Kentucky distiller who had a sis-
ter who was very religious, ana· because
he was a distiller, had not spoken to
him for twenty years. Then when prohi-
bition came., and closed down the dis-
tilleries, she consented to see him and
they had a long talk.· He asked her how
she had been, and she sait1 she had .been·
sick for six teen years. The only thing
that had kept· her alive was a patent
meaicine which she showed him. He said,
"I hate to tell you .• but that is nothi:ng
more or less than·my, poorest grade o:f
whiskey with a few herbs added; and what
you have been, is a rum hound for the
last sixteen years." people of this type
hear of some new sickness ·or disease.
- 85 -·
begin to think about it, ana soon get all
the symptoms describea. This is really
mental sickness; there is nothing wrong
with them. Sometimes people in aescrib-
ing symptoms, rJo not give us a clear pic-
ture so we have to depena on something
else.
one of the methorls of t1iagnosis I
use is through the aura. l usually try
every kind of aiagnosis. The thing to rJo
is when you look at a person,do not look
at the·m clear-eyed. In other words, let
your eyes get out of focus a little, and
when you do this correctly, you will
start seeing just a little haze come
around them. BY a little practice you
will be able to detect colors coming out
of that haze. If the color is coming out
in ragged streamers, the nervous system
is usually all shot. we find too, that
if there is a s teatiy, rhythmic glow puls -
ing from the aura, there is some improper
functioning of the hP,art or blooa; where-
as that from disorganized thought is
sharp.,· jagged flashes. when we find a
green color coming out in slow pulsations
we find that there is some mental conrli-
tion here., which is the cause of the
thing that we are working to reach. Now
again if we finrl that there is an orange
tending to yellow., pulsing in that stearly
rhythm., the cause lies in the peychic
plane. When we finrl that ·the aura.,
whatever its color might be., seems to
roll up ana down the boay insteao of
pouring out; an~ eoges start to curl
downwarn all over the body, we can al-
ways diagnose a spiritual cause behind
- 86 -
whatever ailment is manifesting. This
is one way that we can tell the partic-
ular plane of causation of the illness.
A very good method of diagnosis, one
that I have founrJ very useful, is the
following:. Have · the patient sit ' down
and take their left hand in your right,
an~ their right hand in your left hand;
then through their body send a stream of
magnetic current· till you can · feel the
circle is complete, and the magnetism is
flowing without stoppage. When you feel
that it is completed, close your eyes
and then try to draw ·the consciousness
above and between the eyes; and then try
to draw it back Just· a little bit, at
the same time willing to receive in your
own body the sensation that the other
person is.feeling. After willing this as
strongly as you can, ·1et your mind be-
come as oerfectly blank as possible, and
in a moment you will find a tingle set
up in a certain part of your body, and
it will appear in the part of the body,
that is ailing in the other person. Thus
you get the locality of the part _y~u
want to treat. After practice you ~o not
have to touch the person, just quietly
relax and gaze. into their eye_s, with
your own body, your own eyes, and your
own mind rela~ed. As you gaze, have the
thought of .the current flowing from your
right eye to their left, and from your
left ~ye to their right ~ye. Aft"er
awhile, you will get the sensation or
their illness in your own body. You are
not trying to impress any magnetic f.orc~
on them; what you are trying to do is
get in tune with their magnetic flow.
- 87 -
As a matter of fact, ,the average
person who does not control. the magnetic
forctf ·.has streamers of it coming out .to
a.distance of ten feet. I usually like
.to be about ten ,feet from a person when
I use this methoq. oo not grasp the hand,
let .it be_ held loosely, because when you
grasp the hand their magnetism will try
to repulse you. The one great secret of
all success in healing is perfect rela.x;-
ation of the operator. No person can
strain and concentrate. ·
In. diagnosing f'or mental illness,
the diagnosis has to be worked out ac-
cording to the individual case. To diag-
nose a merital ca.se it is best to get the
person to talk; but do not try to get
the. perso~ to talk about their prqblem,
the minute they come .to you. ··Talk about
s9mething else. Try to find out some-
thing th~·y are interested· in, if· possi-
ble. I am not speaking of a person who
is mentally unbalanced.
I have a case ·or a woman who has
herself messed up with some elemental
entities. ·They came at .first as a good
f.orce and brought her things. that she
liked;. but after they had enough hol~,
they tried to force her into other things
She wrote ·to me begging for help to get
her out of that condition. She said she
could not stop i't now. It comes the way
it wants t~_come. It got her very_ much
enthused and pushed her in, a·nr1now it
is in control. This is a case I had to
diagnose by mail. I have not. seen the
woman., do not know what she looks like.,
- 88 -
ao not know what sh~ got into; but I .know
there_ i~ a·principle that those forces
fQllow. '.First, the. gaining of confidence/
then, .th~ takJng. ·,holtt, _anifbinding ~ the
person's will .to tha ir wil 1. You know
th.at is one of the great r1arigers _tha'€
the occult stuiient faces on the ·path·when
wi~ho_ut proper_guirtance. I, ~.ave a very
gooa T<1ea ·as to where·she ·met· it, ana
how, but of. course, as soon· as t hearo
from h~r;,. I immet1iately 0 serit her some.-
thing to work. with. The he'aler is go·:tng
to· firio m~riy cases. like that •. ' ··. · · ·
That is ·not· what we \'ioult'i · call. a
physical c.ase J 'not exactly mental an:d
certainly not spir;i.'tual, but psyc~ic. ·we
have to: know how ·to give psychic· trea:t-
ments a,s well as we have to know how to
give material .treatments.· I cannot go·
tllere ·physicall,Y; ·and I. _presµme she .can.-
n_ot come he:re, anri · so I have to aiagnose
froma ·very dis':Jointe.d letter. In the::
case of a ~gative f.or~e .' or entity at-
tempting t~ ..take hold',· the first step is
t.h~ gaining_ ,qf confidence;· ,but :in the
gaining . of it' they·· still s'peak fa·lse ·
worr1s, sµch as telling the person they·
have gained C:os~:lc Consciousness. · That
i~ a lie, because 'if a person: has gairier'1
cosmic consciousness, they do not have
to ask .anyone anything. The force· told
her that it wa·s a ma~ter that had come
to her; tolii. her some, things that-· she·
wanter1, .'t~. :1<:now,
· piat1e·he.r think· ~he, was
great •. ·As, a matte:r of fact she w,a:s'ig-.
norant, or she would not have accepted·
it that way. She had gone into the si-
lence. What most people call the silence,
- 89 -
I think is a very dangerous thing. They
make themselves a perfect instrument for
anything to work through. without hav-
ing knowledge anc'J power to protect them-
selves, anything can come and grab hold
of"them, and they are tickler) to ~eath.
The only time to go into the silence
in giving absent treatment, is with will,
strength, and a definite objective in
view. Sitting for trance meaiumship,
which is just. another method of going
into the silence, is dangerous. ·They s·it
there and will for something to take
controL something invariably does if
they sit.- often enough, and long enough.
What ya;u want to watch is tnis: This
force cifine and exalted this woman. In
the firef'.t place, no master is going to
exalt you. Elemental entities know that
playing .t>n the pride and ego of the per-
son, is /the surest way of gaining con-
trol. Some teachers do that. They will
pick out some pupil, especially those
who have money, ant'j say, "you were a
, :master in the past incarnation." If one
~s has attained that state, they c'Jonot lose
..,•. it., and when they go from life to life,
c-:
.. they go with knowlerJge; not with a loss
of what they had. some people are smart
enough to take it in the spirit it is
given, but many people fall for it. If
one of the real adepts comes to you, he
is not going to inflate your ego. This
womAnwas told certain true things. She
was also told this w~s a master coming
to her.
If anyone comes to you, they will
- 90 -
not call themselves a master. one thing
by which we can know that· it was not a
maste.r or an atiept, was that it called
itself a master. BY this time it had
gained all her confidence' it had gained
control, it came in.· ·she had opened the
door for it., and then in.stead of going
along the straight line of truth., .it
said, "Let's go down this way.n '·-She
fought bac,k and what she s·ent to me was
a cry. for help. The only reason that I
will help a person like that·1s·when they
have not gone into it knowingly. .No one
can ·remove the thing which they have
chosen; but in a case like this they have
not chosen, but have ·gone into it because
of ignorance. If a person goes into
these things knowingly, there is acer-
tain connection that they make-with the
Black Brotherhoo,,, and if they turn., -they
oie. It is really better to let th~m
str~gle for awhile in this life. It is
better for them to have to suffer, anrl
learn the horror of what they have gone
into knowingly, than to release ·.them
with rteath.
The White Lodge takes no account of
the moment. It only takes account of the
best results to be gained in the future.
They are not cruel, and not merciful;.
but just - with unswerving Justice. Ac-
cor'1ing to the way you have sowed., so
shall ye reap. r,,e are speaking of a case
where there has been -a conscious turning
from the White to the Black and' der'lica·-
tion· to., an<'i swearing to follow the' laws
of the negative so you can gain personal
power over your fellow man.
- 91 -
·.,I give you certain words of power,
KO-RE-GOR and TIA~BEL-AMET
•· These. words
are .dispellex--s of..·illusion anrt negation.
This woman as yet.does not know what she
is fi-ght1.ng •.' 3h8·:..
merely knows that it
is p.usl\1ng her into .channels she rtoes
nQt want ·to travel. If I gav.e her that
word,., TIA-BEL-AMET.,it woulti dis-pel the
il.lusion., but it w<;>uldnot send it away.
In a case of this ..s·ort we have two con-
fl1cting things.,· needing two me.thoos·. we
have ,, to work thI'ough s.p~itual means,
and psychic means. · ·The·se wort1s that. I
give you are f.or drt~·ing away, ··.ant1 tem-
porary _relief·., .one wol;'d wil.l rtispel the
ve11 of illusion, . the other will drive.
it away. Now what we h~ve to oo is builf'.1
up a wall of protection arpun~ her. That
was the reason that _the magician, -in
ceremonial magic,. used what- they called
the dispeller or rlismissal. ·
.T,he woman herself could not use or
bu'.ild ·up the power of protection. she. is
225 ··mi:I.es away. I ca:nnot go .to. h~r phys-
lcaily~ and her minri is so t1isjointe·11.
that I cannot contact her mentally., i
tried that toliay..; a.no the f,orce .is so
s.trong, ·and her mitid.-so, dis0:rga.nized th~t
I have to use ·.another _methort.• · I never
saw the women and do npt know wha.t she
iooks l,ike, out ·I .. will know tomorrow.
why? ,Because tonight my mind, my con-
sciousness.,· my e_go., _wfll contact her.
To· IJ1ake the c9nt,a.qt ;:We can use the same
thing~that.,.we call :inagne,tic force. That-
can be ,ex:tend~d ...fn.'.a .ti_ny s~re.amer to
flow· to_ he.n. . -On~ of the things that I
will use' in that. c;ase· . is the actual
- 9~ -
leaving of.the ego from my body. When
you learn to ao this., then you will firid
a· lot of things a ·w.ll6le lot easier~ I
will place her letter across • my fore-
heaa. when she was writing 1t·, the emana-
tions flowed from her hand and were 1ni-
pres·serf on that .. paper and tells me a
lot. I place· it ·upop my f o:rehead., ..part
of 1.t will be between the eyes; and· I
relax' rny mind anrJ try to draw in· all the
thoughts; feelings are senaations:tha.t
are vibrating from.the or'iic force· im-
pressions. After I have done th:ts· 1·t
will give me an a ttunement with her own
particular vibratory rate.,· and· then· ttre·
instant I remove ··the letter · from ·my
forehead.,. the picture will:.'. be receivea:.
If you can- get. your· .consciousness··:'in
tune with 1~., then your thought 'force
can connect ·with~a ·J?erson fn any:··part of
the world, that "they··m11::,ht happen . to.be
in. When I get the feeling or vibration.,
then I -will for. myself to be where ·she
is. This is through thought ana will
alone. I then feel·as·if ·my vibration
is blenrteti with the vibration that is
imbeoi1et'l -in the letter., f'or fJistance is
only rtistance~ because of the· limita-
tions of our three rtimensional senses~
If we have twenty radd.os in this· ro·om
ant'I another five hunarer1 miles from herer
an·a a . broaiicas·tlng station . is br-oaa-
casting on a certain wave length, if ohe
is· here, or there, exactly the same· wave-
lengths are· picked up~
From the radio wecan know and un-
aerstan-1 how vibrations pour through all
the worlrl. If you learn how to tune in
- 93 -
on a person's vibratory wave length, you
.can contact them anywhere. Tonight in
this attunement, I merely want to tune
in with her~ i I want to fee 1 with her
feelings, to feel her sensations. If I
build a wall ·or force, it will imprison
that entity in her mind, and this we
wish to avoid. If you think you have
rJriven the rJevil forth anii do not cleanse
the house, then it comes back seven times
stronger than before. The reason is, you
have not gotten rid of it, until you
have cleaned the house. Tomorrow night
at a certain specific time, she is ~up-
poseo to do a certain thing. At that
time I will make my contact; at that
moment I will reach her through that
mental attunement. At the moment when I
do~ I will build up around her a hollow
tube, a globe of violet-white light. I
will for it to form in her vibration. It
will form around her, at the same time
it forms in her vibration. The thin 6
cannot come back, and nothing else can
come in. I will leave it there until
such time as she has gained her proper
mental balance •. You would be surprised
at the number of cases of that kind that
are brought to me.
A girl in Texas started fooling with
an 'ouiJa' board. She was trying to com-
municate with her brother an~ sister who
were dean, and apparently communicateo
with them; then some other force came,
an'1 she became., frighteneo. Now, every
_night if she is alone for one minute, an
overwhelming fear comes over her like a
black cloud, and shuts everything off
- 94 -
aro11nd her. Everything _becomes filled
with blackness an1 the most horrible
sights, sounds, ant1 figur.es become mani-
fest to her. That is a peculiar r·orce or
entity that we have to deal with there.
she is mixed up with something very neg-
ative. one person might not be strong
enough to resist it.
Howmany people have heard about
the haunted bridge in Pasadena from which
ninety-one people have committen suicide
by jumping from one place on it? Why?
when the bridge was being built, there
was a foreign laborer. -who had saved
about five thousand dollars, and inrendet1
going back to the old country after he
finished the job. They were pouring the
cement, and when daylight came the day
foreman started to inspect it, and saw
the soles of a pair of shoes sticking up
from a pile which had been poured. He
cut the soles of the shoes, ann flesh
was there. A man had been burietl in the
cement, who had no relatives to miss
him, so they just poure~ the cement over
him, and finished the bridge. That man
was thrust alive into the cement. When
he was struggling to get away, the strong
magnetic force .carried his odic thought
impressions of struggle to escape. rt so
happened that the concrete happens to be
peculiarly sensitive, and if a person on
the brioge happens to be in an emotional
or nervous condition, and there is· no
one else close to them, they get the same
reactions. Many of those who committeo
suicide, in fact more than two-thirds,
were people who had no cause whatsoever
- 95 -
t-o commit suicide-. -For a time, they put
a guarif on the br1.dge so that there: woula
a.lways. be two. people there .
Here , we have a .pec~l iar case .of
psychic disturbance, anti no person of
nervous nature should e.ver stanti on that
spot. If you are e.ver out. there, walk
out about twilight some even:lng ana stanti
on that· spot and re lax -your_ minc1. It is
a very peculiar sensation. I went there
myself, and. spent an· hou_r drawing fro.m
the odic impressions, the whole . story.
The case is· quite well kno_wn in occult
circles·. The only reason. that I recite
this case is that it is ve.ry interesting
from several points. of view. .:I~ shows
you how- odic ·force can leave _impr~ssions
that can be felt by any sensitive person.
In dealing with these. cases, the healer
has a lot·to cont_entj with, ann he has to
learn first, that to a great degree his
ability to help, requires the necessary
diagnosis; whether in the. physical~ psy-
chic, mental, or spiritual plane. This
is a combination of .the spiritual and
psychic.
wehave always found this: That if
we aesire to: definitely know whethe:r:-
there is some negative force being. oi.'.""
rected against a person, we have to make
tests. ··In nine cases out of ten· when
they tell you ,'this, the person has so
much liate,<malice, anger, ·envy, or fear,,.
in the.ir. owµ nature towards the person
they .'.:thi.nk,:.:-:is .sending it, that the re-
actidn- · ·sets up ·a condition o:(' negation
in · their own minr'I..; · There are not very.
- 96 -
many people who know how to.use negative
force. '· Not one person out: :or a· hundret1
thousa:nrl ·knows ·how to· r'lirect,. th.ough-ts' or
things against anyone. It is true that
late at night wheri most people are asleep
your minii becomes clear, ?>ut that is be-
cause a lot of thought vibrations go out
of the air. Occasionally we· finn that
tper~ is a_ neg~tive force being tiire_cted.
You may, or may not know that fire
or flame · is absolutely an_tagonist:i.c to
any negative ,ro~ce. That is the reason
that in all the legenr,s ~bout were..;waJ.ves
anrl sorcery, light anrt fire· were usen to
banish _these. These stories are legenr'!s
that _conceal a true .unoer~tant'iing of an.
occult law; that is, that fire· or- flame
repulses negation. In · oi;;:tgnos.ing that
particular thing.,.· we p1,1t the pe-r§:9fl in a
sealert room where all win<1ows. -anrt rJo.ors
are cioserL . we' ·seat th~ person.·· in a
chair; then, we'take canr11-~~,:-·light. therµ~
an-i move th 1m arouno that· persor,.: in _var-
ious plaqes, an1 final~y we w:t:ll :r.:tna.
a
place where ·thd canale's. flame :will point
exactly· in the rtirection that. the nega~
tlve foI'.ce is comi~g from... The-._cannle_
flame will first be pointett up,.,
..
_·then ft
will benri over an<1 point' as ~n--arrow,
pointing t1ire ctly towarr, the··-point .from
whi.ch t_he force is be in'g exertecr. In' the ·
ca·se of a ,person who is suspecter, ·or be·-
:ing posse_ssea .or obsessert; . wes·urp.ound:
that pers.on with seven canrHe-s.· ff thare
is an obsess ion or ·poss.esa16n, the flame.
of every 'one · of those candles wil1' benr'f
towaros the ·center. ·rt rtoes help us to
know whether we have to treat the pers··on
- 97-
for actual obsession., possession or for
1mag1nation, or for mental illness.
Frankly., an actual obsession or a
possession., is easier to handle than one
where they believe somebOdy is doing
something to them. No one wants to rec-
ognize a negative thing in their own
nature. It is the hardest Job that the
metaphysical healer has. They will tell
me that this force is directed against
them. Then I will have them dO something
that does not mean a thing, and they
call me up and say it is all gone.
If I find that there is a negative
force sent against the person., I find the
direction from which the negative for9e
is coming and then I go to work at it.
I do not desire to 1nJure that pers9n,
but there 1s no law 1n the world against
shielding ourselves against any force
that is directed against us. When I fin~
the point., I seat myself directly behind
the person. I close my eyes; then I
build up in front of that can~le flame.,
not a globe of light or force., but a
semi-circular shield; let it come to a
po:i.nt with an opening in it., anrf I vis-
ualize_ .1t as . turning the force. The
force goes right back to the person that
s~nt it. ··The stronger it is sent, the
stronger it returns. They get exactly
the saine thing they are sending; no more.,
no less. when they get tired, they stop.
They cannot hurt anyone but themselves.
our Job is to keep · them from hurting
somebody else •
- 98 -
we are going to :find that ninety·
per cent of those that come to us, have
what we call mental anti spiritual ills,
so we have to work on th.:m in a little
rHfferent way. we have them sit oo-wn ant1
te 11 us th J whole story; how this person
has hatet1 them an~ what they have none
to them. I always ask, "How ~o you feel
towart1s this person·" They say they <10
not feel anything, th~y just want t_hem
to stop. Then I ask, "Why t1oes this per-
son dislike y~u? Why are they senoing
you this force?" The first thing you
know they are going to betray themselves.
They show that they themselves are hold-
ing tha same thing in their min1 that
they think the person is sending. Then
you start calling their attention to the
points that .they have brought out, to
show that they have that negation in
their own consciousness. rn· their own
mind. Their consciousnef:3S which does not
like that condition, knows that they
have been told the truth. Finally, if
you are patient enough, anii work harti
enough, you will get them to recognize
it. If you want to be a fake, you can
te 11 them to go home ani! say, "Hokus,
pokus, rotten tomatoes." AS soon as they
hao a bao night's sleep or somebody men-
tioned something to arouse them, that
same negative force would start again.
A young man had always wanteii to .be
a t'Joctor like his father, so. the old nian
sent him off to the medical school. He
thought he hart a lot of knowledge~ s~
the olt'J man took him into partnership~-
About six months later the son came to
- 99 -
his father with .his .chest all stuck out,
an1 sai~,-. "you· know Mrs. -- whomyou have
been trea t1tig' for' · s t_omach ·trouble ·for
·years, well., I have cure<l her. 11 The· olr'!
man said, "Son, <'ton't you know that that
ola laoy's stomach put you through mer'li-
cal school?" Personally., I rJo not like
those .things, whether I find :them in· a
doctor, teacher, ·or otherwis~.
Another. thing too., those pe·opie.,
when you do not tel:J,.· them the truth., are
going to wo:t_>ry· yo·u to <'t~ath,: oay an1
night .aniJ you are not going · _to 110 them
·any good. The only thing which will r10
them any' go9n · is to make them recognize
the trutll; that ;is a mental complex ant'!
their own. negation · in· their own nature.
If 1t is an outside force., then work w1th
those persons anti· teach them how to built1
up arount1 ·the_mselves a wall of protec~
tion., s_o that· they can_shut'· it off. Ttie
person· who is going to: be a healer ha.'s
to know:about all those th:t:ngs., some
.start out · very poorly equipped. I am
givtng· yc,u :~imple th1ngs' to be userl for
the · conditions that. you will probably
meet now. : ·
Now;:again., getting back to some 9f
ou~ tre_atment of cases.· we., of course.,
use the. ·rnagnetic: treatment a gr,eat iieal
for physical ailments. we have a· lot of
cases .of,_spiritual trea.tment., but not
perhaps., ·;as many ·as we C,o of other
things. I );lave·_· f_oun<Jcases where., be-
cause· of ce_rtain mental con,;itions · anii
because they ae).u,;ea themselves, patients
have been. lost ih a. state of what I. call
- 100 -
ecstasy. The first th+ng that a healer
an'1 teach;:r should learn, ....:
..
is :that all
these so-caller1 states of ecstasy are
not gooo. ·.There is a sense of well being,
a sense of freer1om that makes you feel
that you can walk on the top of moun-
tains. Marijuana, cocaine,· anri a lot o.f.
other drugs will give you the same sen-
sation of ecstasy. that some of our meta-
physical stut1ents get . by arousing ·their
emotional nature to a very high pitch,
an,, then cent~ring their consciousness
on what they. call spiritual things. They.
get in a very high vibration an1 seem to
live in a wor~d apart. · I saw one person
who· livea in that- state of ecstasy for .
about three years. She felt·that.she:was
aoa in person; but·at the an~ of three
years the person who hati been taking care
of material things e.vaporated, · an1 she
found that. the · spiritual ecstasy that
she was in, .· was not ta~ing care. of her.·
manifestatiqn_ of the material plane!
- .
_ I ~ew . another pe-rsot:1 ·who was... :l;n
that ..state of ecst~sy for y~~rs, ..an1 she·
was so ign_orant tha,t. she ·did not eve.n.,
know what the worrt 'ego' meant. If_ sh~·
had had cosmic consciousness, she would
have known everything. Some people think
that cosmic consciou.sness is a flood of
light anrt ecstasy, when in reality 1~ is.
a .gaining of . knowledge and wisdom; a
comprehension of the laws of the cosmos,
before they begin to manifest in the
material plane.
' .
You will run into one of· ·those peo-
ple once in. awhile, that ..is, in, that
- 101 -
state. There is not one thing you can do
with them except tell them the truth.
Give them a good thumping mentally, an~
call their attention to the fact that the
world is going on around them all the
time, even though they think that it
isn't. They are not really in a spiritual
state at all. They have built a little
dream world all their own, and it takes
some hard knocks to get them out of it.
one woman had been in that state f.or
nine years. She had a son who was very
ill. she wanted to see me, and when I met
her, she had on a beautiful, white robe
and cap, a big cross hung around her neck
and looked very holy. She told me that
she was in cosmic Illumination all the
twenty-four hours of the day. Then she
talked for awhile, about an hour, and then
said, "MYyoungest son is in terribly· bad
health; can •t you do something for him?"
I said, ·"But you are in cosmic Illumina-
tion; why don't you do something for him?
cosmic Illumination gives you the power
to draw on all the laws of the cosmos."
She said, "I would have to manifest in
the material world and I do not want to
do that." I met her son who was a very
nice boy. I healed him which made her
very happy. Then I called her in and
said, "Now listen.," and told her what was
what., and what was not what. I figured
that ::i;:woula tell her something that was
good for her soul. She had been waited on
hand ana foot like a baby. She did not
even speak to her husband because he was
on the material plane. I said, "If you
feel like that, why don't you float right
- 102 -
on out into the sky?" yes, we have those
cases which we have to handle too. It is.
rather a thankless task. I could gain
~any more students by using more diplom-
acy, but wherever I see a thing is not
right, I am going to tell them the truth
even if they 10 not like it. You cannot
deny the truth in one part, and expect
it to work for you in another part.
we have cases where we have actual
spiritual disfunctions, because the con-
sciousness itself does not des ire to
manifest any longer in the material
plane. Such a one was the girl whose
consciousness retreated into the sub-
jective mind anrt lived in a dream world-...
I did not tell you how I worked with
that girl. I know that that girl knew
that she was in the subjective. mind,
which has its center in the middle sec-
tion of the pineal gland. I knew that I
could not reach her by words. I could
reach her through the power of vibration,
or projection of consciousness; so in
that particular case, I actually left
my body. I could have done it by just
closing my eyes, sending my thought and
will out through her, focusing on the
second section of her pineal; but I was
curious in that case, and actually wanted
to see. So I left my bo~y so that con-
sciousness coulo contact consciousness.
I attuneo myself to her point of contact.
I took hold of her through the power of
vibration. when I came out I came out
through the top of her head and pullea
her with me.
- 103 -
.The fixing of .her consciousness in
the _pituitary gland, the sea.t of the ob-
jective mino, was done in this manner:
rt was driven back toward the pituitary,.
along the channel which is calle~ the
infundibulum; at the po:1,nt of contact I
build up a screen of black light. Her
consciousness was repulsed by it, every
time it woultl move against it. If I had
formed something of a high vibration, her
consciousness would have 6one through it.
I left it there for six months, then re-
moved .,i,t. You will_ find- .that the ·ability
to v~s11:alize color w111· be a great aid
to you. ·
Take a colorer! paper disk ann paste
it in the midrtle of a mirror, anti on
either side place lighted canrtles. seat
yourself about five .feet away in an easy
chair, and gaze ste~<1ily .on the colored
disk; then close your eyes.· and try to
hold the thought of it in the minrJ; then
put the candle light behinrl · you. You get
so tha:t you can clo~e your eyes without
e'i'fort and create the thought of yellow,
red, green, or any other color. After I
work on that for awhile, I put the camUe
behind me just a littie to the left. The
mirror enables you to see a t1epth to the
paper disk, because there is an angle of
reflection from it that you coul~ not
see if you pasted it on a blank surface.
color itself has a relationship to heal-
ing. In giving most treatments., I use a
blue light ..
I founn that tor all healing vibra-
tion, a blue light is most ·desirable.
- 104 -
when I an\ ,performing, a healing or giv,1ng
he-aling circles., I· always· ha·ve a ·blue
light in the room. You want a good.blue
light for all around healing. . The blue
is 'ttie .best for cert~fn .. specific·. cases,.
In si11allpox., re·cl light is m,ost-desirable·~
If ...
a.red l_!ght .·is .kept .. bur,ning. in· ...tp~
room., there., will'. never be .a pit ..mark left
on· the; face of O~- the body.. . .· :.. '. C
. . . ' .. ' ..
In dealing with any method o.t tr~at.:.
ment~ we know that. there are .apt to,be
certain artep effects. Afte:r ·g1v1n~:~anj'
~ind . Of treatment., I ..alw~Y,S.. close _my
e:ye~.,
,ra1s·e JJiYhat1,d_sover. ..
my.head., )~t-
panrJ.·rmysolar _pl_exus., ana;.:,will for ever.y
nega.t:iv:e r9rpe ta. go out _or·my·bort.y
., .· I
ao··this 1mme.d1ately after t ·am throu~h.-
we
...
do .not wa:'nt. :to 'take on a_riything that
we ~e- · treating for., · because .th~n w.e
Diight pas·s it on to' the next ·pe,rson:. · , .I
nave trea ten as manyas forty·· ciitf'ererit.
things in one rJay•s time. It is necessary
to .take preca:utions:, . otherwis:e when you
give-
your.:
.next t.refitnie.nt, YQJ.lmight pass,
tt .~on:tq t_he·:P~rsqri ·_,
yqu,ap¢: treating_ •.,
somat;im~s if I tlan,t_ j;o gene.rate a great.
deal ot ex.tra force ,..
..I w-111_,put the tnumb.
o)\ my le"!t t:ian-(1
.· righ:t ov~r ,my ~dr~nal.-
gl~n,ds; though ,that_ ~s mo.reweak9ni11g.,.
temporar·11y' 1t· ·enables me to -d:l.s~harge. -a
s.tronger for_oe·., .. TJ'lat perhaps· 1s· -o.ne__
q~.
the reasons that the. fencers place the;t.r.
le"f't hanrJ behind them. some of them knew;
that .by pressing there., they. could . ha.ye
more: e.nergy;. that pressure would help._to.:
s,t.imulate the aarenal glanrts. There ar~
a lot of .tricks. In ,reality everything
has ~-n cc.cult caus~., ; b1,1t that cause has
- 105 -
been forgotten by the people who use -1t
today.
' Quite often we have to treat people
at a distance. Personally., in giving an
absent treatment., I prefer to h~ve a
photograph or the person I am treating.
If I cannot have one I want their naine
and birth date., and all the information
I can get about them. If I am going to
give an absent treatment to a person., I
always like to be alone. I seat myself
in an easy chair., relax., cl9se my eyes.,
center my consciousness between my eyes;
then into .my mind I bring the thought of
t·hat person's name., the place they live.,
their address., town., state., an,t hold that
thought. with this., I can attune myself
to their vibration. I held that thought
until it becomes firmly fixed., an~ then.,
with all my will I send out the thought
of healing.
Then I use the thought or first.,
the cont'lition of the thing I am working
with., and then the same condition as be-
ing ·made perfect. That aids in magnetic
treatment. But when I get the picture
I will with all my strength., with· the·
name and face of that pers9n., or their
address., ant! blend.them together. Actu-
ally you will write across your min~ the
name and ac'h:!ress., anrt they stay there.
When they Join toge·ther., your contact is
made. I have found many ·times when I
have been giving my treatment, that a
person who had never even seen me would
see my race flash before them at the
time., though I wasn't present 1n person.
- 106 -
It was merely the mental thought form
carried to them. A lot or times, people
who think they have seen an A~ept, have
seen something like that. A projection
or thought, a thought form, and a crea-
tion made that way is entirely different
from mental telepathy.
I know .of one case, a.woman whose
daughter was very seriously sick, about
four thQusand miles from her. However,
at the time this took place they were
unable to find the ad~ress of the daugh-
ter's mother. The mother ha~ received no
letter about it, and she had not known
of it at all. When she was sleeping, she
saw this rtaughter sick, ~d 1n her S'1eep,
she went to the hospital, procured a hot
water bottle anrt put it on ·her iiaughter•s
side. She thought it was a ~ream.
Next day she wireii and foun~ that
her daughter was 111;: she : went to New
York and ·one of the thi~s that they were
talking about w_as, who·· had placed the
hot-water bottle on the girl 1S side dur-
ing the night. Nobody could _figure where
it came from. There was a. special nurs·e
present, and she had not seen it and
knew nothing '.about "it. That mother's de-
sire to help was -so strong that she
with her consciousness, materialized her
thought form. She was drawn to he~ child
because of the condition, and her desire
to help .was so intense that her con-
sciol.1.Sness furnished the power for her.
She knew nothing of projection of con-
sciousness, mental telepathy or anything
else.
- 107 -
. when working .from _the fourth ~ 1men.-
s ion, ..you ~an ,reach ·1n~i"de and s traigb ten
d1sor·c1~re,J. ox-gans. A man., with an injury
for many:· years,. was .cure,t.by healing·~
from, ttie. fourth· dlmension. There .. is ·a
book.' or fourth rlimensional surgery··writ-
ten "by. a doctor, .on. how. to. perform oper-
ations by fourth aitnensional means. This
doctor had x~ray sight, and. had: perf'ectett
fourth dimensional extensions that would
pas~ th~ough. _the body~ - -As.,·a·mat1;;eif,o!
fact.,· your body from 'the· fourth ·rlimension
ts Just as open . as the·. space. in · .:this.
roorp now. is • . . .. . ... .
. nr. M. wh~n oiii' of·'fiis
.body .,1 -wae,
· pass.1-ng
througti :alittle ..place. in Europe,·
a~d ~a11
.a b9y lying almost · at -the poi-n,t
of .death. ·For some reason or other.,· ~h~.
boy arout:!ed .}lis sympathy., .and- he-de Cided:
to stop and help him. TO do so he en-
tere.d 1nto th4-p bqy':s.- body and s~t up a
~1:t>ration that ,wo_ul~ ,destrQi t~~ d,:l,seasti
~h,at wa,· .afflic;t_~g -th~: ch_1lq•.-He stayec! .
..
wJ.th him- ,fpr about ,i'if'teen- ..
or. twenty mi,n...
,..µtea., ,changed: tha~.
-eondit~on. anti,,sft~pp~d-
Oll;:I:;_. · -T~en ·_the ,:bPY sat up_ irl ,beq,: an~
stal'ted,:.~o .*ling, ::atld _his:pa~nts thougl).t
qe,_was~dying., bu1;, ~ --~as..we11 • AS ~: .ma:t-r
ter of -f~~t., it was .J~t somebody· P8:Ssing
by_who r~ached in to. help,. , . . ...
: :.· · , In helping arid :working ·with peppfe ..,:
''">you
recognize that' ·a. lot or people rto
.': not,.wanf to be healed. ·They rto.,. but:- they
'still .d-Onot.:. A great .many. people. 0clirig
to thei?" a,tfl-ic tions, be·cause by . '10 ing
so. they cari· work,-on the wi."il of ot~rs.
I have knownpeople -who have had heart
- .108 -
a.ttacks., and when they came on., all- those
around them would. · rush to them. T,he.y
have never grc;>wnup. They· never lose the
thing t.hat some chi.ldren have. They· find
that if they Jump t,ip. and down_and yell.,
they get- what they want. .Sonie people it
seems,- never do outgrow that.
I was called in on one case ..· like
th~t myself., not ~o long ago. I said~.
"what is it you want?" She satd., "I·am
dying." I s~l.d., · "You have. tooleti all
these people all this time, but you can~ t
fool me." As a matter of fact., her hus-
bantJ. had been wanting tq,go. on .a .fishing
tr~p.,, an'1 sl'le 11d no~ w~1l~ ~~!11
~Q.. gQ~ .....
1
sa1t1,- "no you. Jcnow what-. I am go1ng; ..
to do
with yoµ?" ';[1he.next time. I. Elm. called
here., I am go:i.ng ·:.to fill the bat~..:.tub
:Cull of colcJ water·,ant1 ice., and pres9rip~
for you-to be-dropped in there fur.thirty
m1nutes~" She said., 11
You mean-that., do
you?. I will ·te-11 :bhem not· to call you?"
I s,aid.,. ,"If .you ..
are going to pla-y that
way.,. I will tell tlle.m what you are do-
ing. II
A healer o:r doctor., certainly run.~
into some curious ,eases., .don't t:hink. they
d-@ not,.- s·ome cas~:s you have: to g~;t ro,ug~
with; some -e.ases yQu..
have _;·to be ,_gentle
with. I have ro.und .that; .the instant that
they think they have put . anything ove.r
on you., you. ha,ve nQ power to reach them ..
. we find occasionally where ..there
will be a case , of. a'bsolute obse$sicm by
some fear, i'il!e the case of th.is girl ..'1.
m~ntion.ed ~n Texas~.. · · · · ·
- 109 -
No real metaphysical teacher con-
siders that working for spiritual treat-
ment consists of sitting aown and calling
on the oreat Spiritual Light and power
of the cosmos, to come down and heal for
them. no you not realize that every law
that works through man is a manifestation
ot the Spiritual Power of Goi? That if
we try to bring in the .Intangible Essence
of GOd, we would destroy the material
world. The first thing that we have to
let a person know, is that all power
comes from God•
Magnetism is one way in which God
manifests his healing power in the mater-
ial world. If you use the power of vi-
bration, that is another law, that God
has given to use. Again we find cases
and places where all those laws seem not
to work. Then and then only, do we try
to draw in a Greater Power. The power of
ooa was made to be used, not abused, ano
any careless use of the oreater Power
reacts upon the person who is trying to
manifest that power. The thing is, that
it is to be called on only when all the
powers which man has been given to heal
with, have failed. In my life, I ha·ve
found only three· cases where I have had'
to call on the Intangible power of GOd
to a'id me• I use the power of God, but
it is a power which comes through me, a
law which has been set aside for that
purpose. I only call on the oreater
Power of 'GOd· when· there has to, be a great
and wonae·rrul manifestation o:f Power.
How·many times do you think Jesus calle~
upon the oreat Power9 once, when He
- 110 -
raised Lazarus from the· dead; once when
He healeti the widow's daughter. Whe.nI
do this, here is what I ~o; but do not
oo it unless everything else has failed,
and you know within your Ownself that
it is the right thing to do. Only do it
when there is a great purpose to be ful-
f111ed. First, the person who is going
to be a channel, or call into being that
power within themselves, must make them-
selves reaay. Their purpose and desire~
an., will for action and manifestation,
must be pure. It 1s best that there
should be no food eaten for some time
before. If that is not possible, then
we have a physical effect · ·that we have
to take afterwards, ourselves. The con-
sciousness is centered on the second
section of' the pineal gland.· Will tor it
to vibrate with a sky-blue light. Then
in _your mind must come the thought of.
the four-le1;terert word, the Y"D-HR-VAu-·
HE; the one that is used by the Masons.
As we increase that vibration we
think of' that word in its tlistinct sym-
bols; the power of the vibration of the
pineal supplying the missing vowels~
What we are building-is a framework that·
will hold that power when. it flows·
through. If. we did not do this. and
called it into being, it would be too·
ban; so we form and frame it, causing
the intense vibration of the blue light.
Then there will come a point when the
whole inside of your head has ceased to
exist, ana you are only consciousness,
ana you can sea there, as well as here.
Then the contact has been established,
- 111 --
and we stretch forth our hand over. the
per.~pn whom.we are trying tQ raise, . and
the force anq:power pours Qut., anq that
pe~son :ts rev.1tal1zed; recreated, as it
were, ·.and ev.en if the soul has .left the
body, it .is called back if it. has not
been gone too long. .This 1s -the true
reading of the Book of Thoth.- This w.ord
ha·s concealed within it all ..the power of
the .:Book of Thot~, ·ir _y~u use it. proper.-
ly.'
. Suggestion is .used nearly always in
mental cases. In treating mental c:ases
that come to us, we first have to arouse
:i.n tha1; pers.on, a condition of hope. we.
do this by ~ne suggestion of a gradual
improvement in them. I never tell a per-
son when I· am. treating .them,· that they
w~ll be. healed ·1n five minutes, five
da-ys, or five weeks. I only say that I
can heal. ··
we know, of course, what hypnosis
is_. It 1s. nothing more or less than two
minds working toward·S the- same end; one
subjective, one .obj·ect·1ve. · In ..
other words..:;
one. makes himself receptive, .the other·
sends out ..h.is-" mental. force.;· using words
of;suggestion such as., . "You'are 'getting
sleepy .•" I never use hypnosis, but I-
know ~ow to hypnotize. Hypnosis, as·hyp-
nosis.,. is not necessary except where it
takes· the place .of anesthesia. · .In major
operations in Moscow,· they are· . using
hypnosis as an anesthetic only~ Frankly,
1f·1t was done:, it would ease all·the
pains ..or chill'Jbirth.
.··--i
- 112 - ·
· people. are· being educa'ted -till they
.understand . ·that it ·1s not the : fearsome
.thing that it · used-., to· be considered.·
People under hypnosis., do ·not do anything
that they would not do in a normal state.
They carried out experiments in
hypnosis amo~" a grQ:up;·r· ·was with., at
one time. They put a man in a··deep state
of·hypnosis, and gave him a rubber dag-
ger telling h1m;:to us·e -it on a man. -He
took it and stabbed the man in the baek
with it. Then they gave him. another dag-
ger., ,a ,stee,1 dagger., .and ·told; ·himt to
stab the man:., but: he threw it· down.· ' '
,_.,.
" '
. ' . ·;.
we, use·: sugge &tion all- the waythrough.
in hyp.nosis. · For· instance::,.:· r<suggest to
a pers·on that ,·acertain thing. is·· g.oing
to be eliminated. Why? Because I want
their mind to build up· the- same· mental
picture · that my ·mind has. If I rto 'not
do. that.., then there: are two opposing
forces., ·.when I say sugges·t-ton°-:,· I do not
mean in·. the: hypn-ot:ic sense. · Their· mind
takes .it. upand helps· to--.:reac:t: on '~it. If
a pC:.:rson comes to us with a mental ill,
we never would tell a person that they
were. insane or going crazy .. Every. .insane
person thinks that every-body· eTse is in-
sane but h1mse If.
Always in wo.rking or draw.-ing. any
fQrce to anybody. ·else.,-- we· have · to ·make
them., through suggestion~.work in accord
anti harmony with us. The same ' thing·
holds true in treatmen.:t of ourselves. If
we want to treat ourse 1ves., we· can never
bring about any positive reaction 1n the
- 113 -
body while holding a destructive thought.
we have to accept the condition as 1t is,
and then build up the changed condition.
***********
MAGNETIC
EXERCISES
Let us now 'examine' some methods
for intensifying the magnetic current in
t!:le body.
1. Stand erect; place the finger tips of
both hands in the solar plexus; take
a deep breath while rising to the
tips of your toes as you inhale; hold
your breath for an instant, then ex-
hale • Repeat two or three times •
2. Lie flat on your back and concentrate
the thought on the feet; then slowly
· sweep the thought up the body until
your consciousness rests between the
eyes·; repeat three times. Now rise to
your feet and repeat while stand.ing
erect. ·
3. Stand in frontr of a mirror and gaze
steadily at the reflection of your-
:self; . try to. make the gaze of the
right eye stronger without allowing
the left eye to droop. Try to re·el
as though force were flowing from
your rigl:lt eye.
·· 4. Take some bright object, such as
a· crystal, diamond, clear glass of
water, or other similar object, and
. .
114 -
place it in front of you on a table.
Seat yourself, and relaxing all of
your muscles, gaze steadily at the
bright object.· Gradually draw · your
consciousness into your head and cen-
ter it between the eyes. Then center
it in the right eye for one minute.
5. Seat yourself in an easy chair, relax
all of your muscles and start drawing
the consciousness into the head, where
you are to centsr it between the eyes •
Close the eyes halt. way, center the
consciousness in the right eye and
then open the eye wide.
6. Hold the right hand straight out in
front of your body and make the mus-
cles of the arm tense. Try to feel a
current of force flowing down your
right arm into your hand. Continue
this for thirty seconds.
7. Hold the hand out as·in the last ex-
ercise, but do not make the muscles
tense; try to feel "the magnetic cur-
rent flowing down your arm into your
hand.
8. Hold both hands over the head, clos-
ing the right hand and leaving the
fingers of the left hand extended.
Close the eyes, stand on tip toe, and
draw a deep breath. Concentrate on
the left hand to try to feel the mag-
netic current being drawn into the
finger tips and down the arm into the
body.
- 115 -
9. center the· ·conscious-ness between the
eyes an6 holii 1t' there while yoti ·take
a aeep 0£eath; then concentrate the
·.thought · on . the root ·of the tongue
whil<:> t1.ktng another d€ep breath; hold
the t~:::,·:~,I-'.t · .on· the tongue until you
have s l..;-;Jly exhaled.
10. curl the tongue upward · and back un,..
t11 the: tip touches the roof of the
mouth. concentrate the thought on
the "bD..seof the tongue • .·Take three
dee·p t:"e-aths, · · inhaling and exhaling
slowly. ' · ·
***********
- 116 -
_.,..,.... """"
,- .,.. ',:r,
-· -
,)
'">
"'
-'
"'-
~4' ..
--.
J
(/
~-\ '·
"(
!
*
/ -
•r.r·
~
( ....
-- }
--- '
I
\.
• -· J
.,..:,'
c. \
,.;'
.:
I: r
•-' \_
,...._,.;/
~! -
..
c'
'
(/
r,
·,_
I'
~·
, ,:
{ <" f
' <
-...
V '
<.
'I
·-
/
./ .
> ·-
?
+
"-'
"\- -'
::,
:::
/
?
