{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__curtiss___key_to_the_universe.pdf","mytitle":"Key To The Universe","mylang":"de"}
The
Key to the Universe
or a Spiritual Interpretation
of Numbers and Symbols
BY
HRRIEITl AUGUSTA CURTISS
AND
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M.D.
FOUNDERS OF
hr (rbr iif OUFtøliau £t1Lgøttc
AUThORS OF "THE CURTISS BOOKS"
The Key of Destiny, The Voice of Isis, The Message of Aqvaria
The Truth about Evolution and the Bible, Coining World
Changes, Realms of the Lrvmg Dead, Letters from the
Teacher, Vols. I and a, Gems of Mysticism, The
Temple of Silence, The Divine Mother,
The Soundless Sound, Etc.
With many diagrams and tables.
Also ten full page plates.
Seventk and revised edition
WASHINGTON, D. C
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
1938
opyrght, Z917,
BY THE CURTISS PHILOSOpHIC BOOK
AU Rights Reserved
LONDON AGENTS
L. N. FOWLER & Co.
7 Imperial Arcade, Ludgate Circus
LONDON. E. C. 4
HARRIETTE AUGUSTA CURTISS
Co-Founder of
he ®rbtr ut rtøtian U!dÌrB
Co-Author of
hr Qurtiaa nkt'
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
THE Kx OF DESTINY
THE Voicz OF Isis
THE MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
COMING WORLD CHANGES
THE TRUTH ABOUT EvotunoN AND THE
Bi
REALMS OF THE LIVING DEAD
Lk.L n,.xs FROM THE TEACHER, VOLS. I. ii.
GEMS OF MYSTICISM
THE TEMPLE OF SILENCE
THE Souiiss SoU
THE DIVINE MoIHER
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHTC
BOOK CO.
Washington, D. C.
- TABtE OF CONTENTS;' .
- PAGE
Foreword ix
Preface xiii
CUAPTER
1 The Origin- of Nuilierical Systems 17
2 TheSymboloftheQandtheSerpeflt 26
3 The Q as the Egg and the Cat 39
4 TheastheAuraandtheRingPassNOt 49
5 The Symbol of the 0 55
6 The Number 1 61
7 The 1st Hebrew Letter, Aleph 67
8 The 1st Tarot Card, The Juggler 75
9 TheNumber2 82
10 The 2nd Hebrew Letter, Beth 90
11 The 2nd Tarot Card, The High Priestess 97
12 The Number 3 102
13 The Number 3Continued 115
14 The 3rd Hebrew Letter, Gimel 125
15 The Number 4 135
16 The Number 4Continued 148
17 The 4th Hebrew Letter, Daieth 158
18 The Number 5 170
19 The Number SContinued 178
20 The 5th Hebrew Letter, He 186
21 The Number 6. 195
22 The Number 6Continued 204
23 The 6th Hebrew Letter, Vau 211
24 The Number 7 219
25 The Number 7Gestation 229
26 The Number 7Perfection 236
27 The Number 7PerfectionContinued 244
28 The 7 Princioles of Man 255
vi Table of Contents
29 The 7 Pleiades and the 7 Rishis 267
30 The 7th Hebrew Letter, Zain 277
31 The Number 8 .. .285
32 The Number 8Continued 293
33 The 8th Tarot Card, Justice 301
34 The Number 9 306
35 The Number 9Continued 316
36 The 9th Hebrew Letter, Teth 327
37 The Number 10 339
38 The Number 10Continued 347
39 The 10th Hebrew Letter, Yod 356
40 The Joy of Completion 368
The Key to the Universe
FOREWORD
These are days of great unrest in all walks of life.
Many are running to and fro seeking a firm founda-
tion on which to erect their Temple of Truth. These
are the days foretold by the prophet Amos: "Behold,
the days come, saith the Lord God, that I will send a
famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst
for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord."1 It
takes but little insight to see in present day conditions
the literal fulfillment of the prophecy: "For many shall
come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall de-
ceive many. * * * Then if any man shall say unto
you, Lo, here is Christ, or there; believe it t.'
But that we may not be deceived there, must be some
firm foundation on which we can rest assured and
build. Where shall this be found? This is the ques-
tion which this volume seeks to answer through the
interpretation of the spiritual meanins of the un-
changing symbols banded down to mankind in the only
exact science, numbers. It does not profess to be the
1 and only Book of Wisdom, the only true and satisfy-
ing solution of the world's problems, but it does strive
to set forth an exposition of the framework on which
the cosmic philosophy of the ancient Wisdom Religion
was based (subject to the human limitations of the
transmitting personalities), together with such inspi-
rational Light as has been vouchsafed to the authors,
who make no claim to aught save the office of trans..
initters and distributors of the spiritual food especially
stored and preserved in the storehouse of the King, in
readiness for this time of famine.
Today many are striving to appease this Soul-bun'.
ger. Many well-intentioned teachers who have had a
'Amos. viii. 11. 'SS. Uattkmo zziy, 5-23.
x Foreword
realization of a phase of Truth strive to fill the need,
but because they have not a cosmic and all-inclusive
philosophy, they can give but a few crumbs to an hun-
gry 1 here and there, while the great massthose who
are not content to take any single phase of Truth
still seek, hungering, starving or feeding on the husks
of materialistic conceptions. Others, in an effort to
be less personal, are telling the hungry ones to cease
seeking for help from teachers and look only to the
Within. In fact, we have in our hands a little circular
which voices, in the following words, the note of almost
universal despair and disappointment with teachers:
"To you, who thought you had found in some great
teacher, who was perhaps the acknowledged head of
some Society, Fraternity or Religion, and who ap-
peared to you to be a 'Master,' so marvelous was the
wisdom he taught and the works he performed; only
to awaken later to the realization that that 'Master'
was but a human personality, with faults and weak-
nesses, and secret sins, the same as you, even tho' that
personality may have been a channel thru which was
voiced many beautiful teachings, which seemed to you
the highest 'Truth.' * * * To you, I AM come.
* * * For I AM your real Teacher, * * * and
the only MASTER."
This idea that all wisdom, comfort and help can be
found within iS but a further fulfillment of the proph-
ecy as given in St. Matthew (xxiv, 26): "Wherefore
if they shall say unto you, Behold, he is in the desert
[of mere intellectual learning]; go not forth: behold,
be is in the secret chambers [the Within]; believe it
not." Here we find the 2 opposite poles of teaching,
as common in the days of the Apostles as today, antici-
pated and provided for. Where then shall we find rest,
peace and spiritual food?
Foreword xi
Dear Reader, long ere the famine was sent into the
land the preparation for it was made. Joseph was sent
into the darkness of Egypt to prepare for the 7 years
of famine by gathering up the over-plus of corn and
wine during the 7 years of plenty, and preserving them
in the King's granaries and storehouses, so that when
the lean years came there should be food a-plenty for
all who asked it of the King. So the Spiritual Teachers
of the Race, the Masters of Wisdom and Elder Broth-
ers of humanity, have for our sakes dwelt in Egypt
that They might store up in the granaries of the King
of Kings the spiritual philosophy which alone can
bring satisfaction when the days of famine of the
Word are upon us. They it is who have marked out
the Way which leads direct to the storehouse of the
King of Kings.
Think you in the days of famine in Egypt, those who
came seeking the food so lavishly furnished them by
Joseph caviled at his personality? Did they say, "This
man is a Canaanite. He has served time in prison.
He has been sold as a slave. He is but human like
ourselves, with faults and weaknesses and secret sins,
even as we ourselves. He cannot feed us. We will
have none of him. The same God who gave him the
forethought to store up the corn and wine is our God.
We will find Him within, and He shall feed us, for all
things are ours?" It is obvious that such an 1 would
have gone hungry and been forced to prove the fallacy
of his doctrine. And so must it ever be. For while
the I AM is The Christ within every Soul, there is no
greater sinif by sin we mean mistakethan the
great "heresy of separateness." It takes all humanity
to complete the expression of the Divine, hence, since
the wisdom of no 1 man has ever evolved a completc
science or formulated a philosophy without the aid of
his predecessors, so no 1 Soul can unaided find the
xii Foreword
whole Truth within himself. All a Soul can find
within is its own Truth, the Truth that shall make it
free. The voice of The Christ within giveth testimony
unto Truth, i. e., the I AM tells us unmistakably what
is Truth and what is not. Also it should be remem-
bered that all Truth comes to man through an human
intellect, either through your own or that of another,
while the I AM .itn ply knows and recognizes Truth,
witnesses to and affirms it. Therefore, as long as we
listen to this Voice within no personality, teacher or
teaching can deceive or disappoint us; for we will
"take, eat" only from The Christ the bread that He
has broken and given to His disciples to be distjibuted
to the multitude; we will drink only from the Cup
that He has blessed and filled with His own spiritual
life-force. This is the basis on which we ask you to
consider the teachings of this volume. If you hear
the assenting Voice within or feel the thrill of Truth
confirmed, then partake of it to the upbuilding of your
spiritual life. If not, then pass it by until a riper
understanding reveals it to you.
The Wisdom Religion is the accumulated wisdom,
1st of Revelation; 2nd of Inner Assent by The Christ
within; and 3rd of Experience, not of any 1 man, but
of many men in all ages who have struggled, sinned,
suffered, triumphed and finally tnastercd the problems
and forces of life. These have left behind them a well
trodden Path leading to the very door of the store-
house of the King, where They ever stand ready to
pass on to soul-hungry, starving humanity the life-
giving food; for They have eaten of it and found it
utterly satisfying and will neither hunger nor thirst any
more. Some morsels are offered herein. Take, eat, if
you will, and be satisfied.
PREFA
"The twenty-two sounds and letters are the
Foundation of all things. Three mothers, seven
doubles and twelve siniples." Sepher Yetzirali,
11,1.
Our great desire in presenting this work to the
public is that it shall be a practical treatise; that it
shall explain to the student the reason for and the
nature of the many mysterious experiences which he
encounters as the Path of Attainment unfolds before
and within him, to the end that he may understand
their significance, learn their lessons and avoid the
mistakes and discouragements which result from igno-
rance of the Law. In other words, we shall endeavor
to show that all personal experiences are expressions
of the 1 Great Law manifesting according to mathe-
matical principles, demonstrating that the unfoldment
of the godlike possibilities inherent in each Soul fol-
lows, step by step, the same order of events that is
followed in the evolution of the Cosmos, and that such
steps are symbolized by the' first 22 numbersthe
Signature or Name of God. This signature is im-
pressed upon the Cosmos through the Divine Trinity,
the 7 Sacred Planets and the 12 signs of the Zodiac.
"In fact, in the 'Sepher.Yetzirah,' God considered as
the Infinite and consequently the indefinable Being,
extended throughout all things by His power and
existence, is while above, yet not outside of numbers,
sounds and letters,the principles and general laws
which we recognize !" 1
Our effort throughout will be not to compile a work
for scholars only, but to popularize occult philosophy
by presenting in a form easily comprehensible by the
'14 Kaba1e Prunk, qucted by Wc,tcctt In The Se».r Y.tair.Zs, 8.
xiv Preface
average intelligent reader, the philosophic principles
symbolized by the 1st 22 numbers. These few numbers,
as we explain herein, truly form the key to the evohi-
tion of both man and the Cosmos, or The Key to Size
Universe, for they symbolize and illustrate the cosmic
principles back of all manifestation, and prove mathe-
matically the relationship between the microcosm and
the macrocosm. They also mathematically demon-
strate the principles of Christian Mysticism as ex-
pounded by The Order of ChrisNan Mystics (Order
of the z5).
In addition to giving the spiritual interpretation of
the 1st 22 numbers, we also include an explanation of
the esoteric meaning of the 22 letters of the Hebrew
alphabet which correspond to them, together with the
symbology of the 22 Major Arcana of the Tarot cards.
"The alphabet of the Hebrews is composed of 22
letters; these letters, however, are not placed by
chance, one after the other. Each of them corresponds
with a number according to its work, with a hiero-
glyphic according to its form, with a symbol according
to its affinities with other letters." 2
While accepting many of the more spiritual inter-
pretations of other writers on numbers and the Tarot,
by the presentation of a great mass of original mate-
rial derived from inspirational sources, we shall avoid
making this work either a mere compilation of the
statements of others presented without elucidation or
a dry mathematical treatise.
Another feature of this work is the liberal quota.
tions from that wonderful mine of information and the
foremost authority on occultism in the Western world,
The Secret Doctrine, by Helena Petrovna Blavatsky.
This work is so large and expensive that it is possessed
only by a comparatively few scholars. Hence, for the
benefit of the great mass of occult students who would
'TA. Tarot, l'apua, 94.
Preface x.
otherwise never partake of its riches, we will quote
extensively from it, as well as paraphrase other por-
tions whenever they will either elucidate or substan-
tiate our point or interpretation. That these quota-
tions may be easily distinguished from the original
matter, and for convenience in reference, they will be
placed in a special style of type.
The Secret Doctrine and The Voice of Isis will be
referred to so frequently herein that their titles. will be
abbreviated in the footings to S. D., vol., etc., and
V. of I., respectively.
We regret that the monthly lessons referred to in
the footnotes are now out of print, but they will prob-
ably appear in subsequent volumes.
San Francisco, Cal.,
Seot. 15th. 1915.
THE KEY TO THE UNiVERSE
CHAPTER 1
THE ORIGIN OF NUMERICAL SYSTEMS.
"Every cosmogony, from the earliest to the
latest, is based upon, interlinked with, and most
closely related to, numerals and geometrical
figures."The Secret Doctrine, Blavatasky, III,
"So teach us to nuniber our days, that we may
apply our hearts unto wisdom."Psabns, xc, 12.
"God is a Number endowed with motion, 'which
is felt but not demonstrated."BaL,ac.
Mathematics is the only exact science; the only I
wiose propositions are capable of conclusive proof and
demonstration. All other so-called "exact sciences"
are based upon assumptions, deductions and "working
hypotheses" which are more or less useful until further
investigation and discovery pro'es them to be but
partial 'truths. And in these days of rapid progress,
the changes of base in the "exact sciences" are so fre-
quent that the scientific text-books have to be re-
written every few years, so rapidly are the materialistic
conceptions of matter and the universe outgrown.
Only 3 centuries ago the "exact science" of the
day was unanimous in the opinion that the earth was
flat, and opposed the idea of the infinity of the universe
and the plurality of worlds to such a degree that its
leaders burned Giordano Bruno at the stake for daring
to oppose their dictum. Within a decade or 2
"exact science" ridiculed the possibility of the trans-
mutation of metals, classing it as a mere vagary of
18 The Key to the Universe
unbalanced mystics, yet today we have the transniuta-
tion of metals going on in many laboratories as a
matter of course. Only a few years ago we were
taught that the atom was a particle of matter, but today
ihe same "exact science" asks us to believe that it is
not "matter" at all, but the union of 2 units of force
called "electrons." The facts as taught by the mystics
of all ages remain; modern interpretation of them
evolves and expands.
Words are symbols of ideas, but numbers are
symbols of divine realities; spiritual verities eternal in
the heavens, which express themselves periodically in
the worlds of objectivity. "If as Pythagoras said: 'The
world is built upon the power of numbers,' then num-
bers must be the key to the understanding of the
world." "They are a key to the ancient views on
cosmogony, in its broad sense, including man and
beings, and the evolution of the human race, spiritu-
ally as well as physically."'
"Hence we find numbers and figures used as an
expression and a record of thought in every ar-
chaic symbolical scripture. They are ever the
same, with certain variations only, arising from
the first figures."
Following Prof. Max Muller, it is commonly ac-
cepted that our present numerical system was invented
by the Arabs, for he tells us that, "The two words
cipher and zero, which are but one, are sufficient to
prove that our figures are borrowed from the Arabs."3
As a matter of fact the system was introduced into
Europe by Pythagoras, who found it already fully de-
veloped in India. It is true that later the system was
widely spread by Arab traders, but they also obtained
it from India. Prof. Muller later admits this origin
himself when he says elsewhere: "Cipher is the Arabic
cipron, which means simply, a translation of the Sans-
1 Unveiled, Blayatsky, II, 407.
8 Thi Secret Doctrsns, Blavatsky, I, 341.
' Onr Fsgnr::. Muller.
The Origin of Numerical Systems 19
krit name of nought" Among the Hebrews the
kabalistic word Sephiroth also corresponds to the word
cipher, not in the sense of nothing, but rather in the
sense of containing within itself the powers of creation
by number and degrees of evolution, aitho as yet
unmanifested, hence a void.
The Hindus, however, do not claim to have origi-
nated the science, for the sages declare that it was
revealed to them by the Devas (the Gods). Also,
"The Pythagoreans asserted that the doctrine of Num-
bers, the chief of all in Esotericism, had been revealed
to man by the Celestial Deities; that the World had
been called forth out of Chaos by Sound or Harmony,
and according to the principles of musical proportion."
These are but confirmations of the occult teaching
that the science of numbers was not slowly evolved by
primitive man learning to count on his fingerswhich
is deduced as the probable origin by exoteric investi-
gatorsbut was a fully elaborated system of compu-
tatiqn revealed to the priesthood of the early Races
by the Elder Brothers and Spiritual Teachers of man-
kind.'
"The symbol was the origin of measures, shadowing
forth creative law or design. * * * Reflection be-
comes more involved when it is considered that the
power of expression of the law, exactly, by numbers
clearly defining a system, was not the accident of the
language, but was its very essence, and of its primary
organic construction; therefore, neither the language,
nor the mathematical system attaching to it, could be
of man's invention, unless both were founded upon a
prior language which afterwards became obsoletc."T
No matter how far back into the night of time
archeological or other investigations are extended, high
stages of civilization are found, each having an elabo..
a Chips. VoL II, 284 (1873).
S.D 1.467.
A volume might easily be written substantiating this statement.
bet Its truth Is so self-evident to all who have Investigated the subject
that we do not consider it necessary to present further evidence thsn
Is contained in this volume.
'The Source .1 Mousigrss. Skinnsr 204
20 The Key to the Universe
rate numerical system, where, according to modern
scientific theories, only the most primitive conditions
might be expected. Even today we find primitive
systems existing side by side with the most advanced.
They are found, however, only among the sub-races
which are not in touch with the highest civilization of
their age. Relics of so-called primitive peoplethe
so-called "cave-man" and other degenerate remnants
of the earlier sub-races--are no more an index of the
stage of development to which mankind as a whole had
reached in those bygone days, than the development
of the present Bushmen of Australia or the Amos of
Japan are an index to the height th which civilization
has reached today. The 2 extremes exist at the same
time, if not side by side.8 The almost incalculable
antiquity of elaborate astronomical and numerical sys-
tems is sufficiently indicated to sustain the occult teach-
ing by the following quotation:
"Diogenes Lartius carried back the astronom-
ical calculations of the Egyptians to 48,863 years
before Alexander the Great. Martianus Capella
corroborates this by telling posterity that the
Egyptians had secretly studied Astronomy for
over 40,000 years, before they imparted their
knowledge of the world. * * * Mr. Proctor shows,
in his Myths and Marvels of Astronomy, that
the ancient Astronomers had acquired a system
of the most accurate Astronomy 2,400 years B. C.;
the Hindus date their Kali Yuga from a great
periodical conjunction of the Planets thirty-one
centuries B. C. * * * Simplicimus, in the sixth cen-
tury, A. D., writes that he had always heard that
the Egyptians had kept astronomical observations
and records for a period of 630,000 years. This
statement appears to frighten Mr. Gerald Massey,
who remarks that: 'If we read this number
of years by the month which Euxodus said the
Egyptians termed a year, i. e., a course of time,
that would still yield the length of two cycles
of precession (S1,736 years)'."
Por the occult teaching on the origin of Rices see the Vows
of hu Curtiss, Chapter. xiu, x, xyd.
. P.. 1. 712.3.
The Origin of Numerical System.r 21
Herodotus tells us that the Egyptians founded a
system of a 12 god theogony. Hence we find in Egypt
the duo-decimal system, or method of reckoning by 12,
in common use. And it is to the use of that system
in the construction of the pyramids, that the origin
of the English foot of 12 inches has been traced. Among
the early Races the decimal system, or reckoning by 10,
was esoteric and known only to the higher Initiates
among the priesthood.
"Now, if, on the one hand, the most ancient
Indian MSS. show as yet no trace of decimal
notation in them, and Max Müfler states very
clearly that until now he has found but nine
letter, the initials of the Sanskrit numerals; on
the other hand, we have records as ancient,.
to supply the wanted prooL We speak of the
sculptures and the sacred imagery in the most
ancient temples of the Far East."
The decimal system was held sacred. because the
priesthood, having received it directly from the Divine
Teaahers of mankind and having been taught its sacred
significance, understood that in the numbers from 1 to
10 the whole evolution of the Cosmos and of man, the
descent of Spirit into matter that matter might be
redeemed, together with man's Atone-ment with the
Divine, were portrayed and revealed to those who had
eyes to see and hearts to understand.
"We know that the decimal system must have
been used by mankind of the earliest archaic ares,
since the whole astronomical and geometrical
portion of the secret sacerdotal language was built
upon the number 10. or the combination of the
male and female principles. * * * The 10, being
the sacred number of the Universe, was secret
and esoteric, both as regards the unit and cipher,
or zero, the circle."'
The priesthood knew the dire results of the misuse,
perversion, debasement or reversal of any symbol, hence
"S. D.. 1. 386.
22 The Key to the Universe
would have saved mankind from all the degradation
and suffering which has resulted from the fraudulent
manipulation of these sacred symbols by man to acquire
personal advance or power at the expense of his fellow
men; for example, the acquiring of individual wealth
at the expense of the community and mankind in gen-
eral (i. e., the worship of the Beast), in contradistinc-
tion to the creation of wealth through agriculture,
mining, manufacturing, etc.
We may here mention that I of the most common
wayp of perverting the potencies of numbers, and per-
hap the most insidious and demoralizing in its effects
upon mankind, is the use of numbers in games of
chance or gambling. It is said that every confirmed
gambler has a more or less well developed system which
he believes is bound to win. The so-called element of
chance as applied to numbers has been demonstrated
to be subject to certain laws which bring success for
a time, and it is this mysterious property of numbers,
which the gambler senses and tries to control, that
lures him on to his inevitable ruin. For the law of
numbers does not belong to the realm of chance.
Numbers are potent factors in the working out of
Divine Law, hence no system devised by man for his
own aggrandizement or advantage at the expense of
others, can ultimately succeed. It may seemingly do
so up to a certain point or until the cycle of that par-
ticular combination of numbers reverts back to its true
rate of vibration or the key-note which belongs to that
particular expression of the Divine Law, and fulfills
its real mission. The Law of Numbers, being the law
of the progressive manifestation of the Christos or the
Divine Light penetrating Chaos and evolving all mani-
fested things back to ultimate unity, in certain stages
may seemingly lend itself to the furtherance of evil,
but in the end this will be shown to be but the gather-
The Origin of Numerical Systems 23
ing together of the forces of Chaos (chance) that they
may be swept aside, swallowed up and ultimately trans-
muted into unity.
"Number is, as the great writer (Balzac)
thought, an Entity, and, at the same time, a
Breath emanating from, what he called God and
what we call the AL!, the Breath which alone
could organize the physical Cosmos, 'where naught
obtains its form but through Diety,' which is an
effect of Number."
Numbers may be compared to the bones of the body
in that they are the framework upon which the super-
structure of manifestation is erected. Therefore, even
if the study of occult mathematics may seem to some
but a study of dry bones, it is as necessary to the occult
student as a study of osteology to the medical student.
Its study was considered so important by the Greeks,
that it, together with physical culture, comprised the
entire educational curriculum. Their system of mathe-.
maties, however, embraced 4 categories, arithmetic or
the laws of numbers; geometry or the laws of plane
and solid figures; astronomy, which included astrology,
or the laws of both planetary motions and their spiritual
and magnetic influences; and, finally, music, under
which heading they included harmony, rhythm and
poetry, their poetry in turn embracing the history of
the world.
In the Bible, from the days of creation to the Apoca-.
lypse, great stress is. laid upon numbers, especially 3,
4, 7, and 12. In the Hindu scriptures, the Vedas,
Upaniskads, etc., numbers underlie every hymn, and
stress is laid upon 1, 3 and 7; the same system upon
which Vach or the sacred speech of Zoroaster was built.
Hence it is impossible to become an Adept and fully
grasp the deep problems of either the Brahmanical,
Buddhistic, Zoroastrian or Christian sacred books with-
' S. P.. 1.95.6.
24 The Key to the Universe
out a knowledge of the significance of numbers. The
power of a mantram or hymn, or a reading from 1 of
the sacred books, varies with the numbers and syllables
of, the words, the rhythm of the meter and the vibra-
tions of the tones used, in addition to the meaning of
the wOrds themselves. This is recognized more or less
clearly in all religions, from the chanting of the sacred
sentence Om tnani padme hum of the Hindu and Thi-
betan monks, the rhythmic reading from Granth Sahil,
and the repetition of the sacred name Wahguru of the
Sikhs, to the intoning of the service in many branches
of the Christian church. If these various forms of
mantra are intoned slowly and with a rhythmic ca-
dence a certain effect is produced; if quickly and
sharply quite a different effect results. These effects,
being founded upon the laws of vibration, are not
imaginary nor merely the result of suggestion upon
especially sensitive persons. The nerves are like the
strings of a musical instrument and try to respond and
adjust themselves to the vibrations playing upon them,
and the effects are plainly apparent both upon the mind
and the emotions. This is the secret of the soothing
and healing power of music, as well as the stimulating
effect of martial airs.
Since all things manifest according to the laws of
numbers and vibration, everything can be made to re-
spond to these laws. Hence, 1 who has gained the
mastery over his voice, or as the occultist would say,
can command the "Army of the Voice," is master over
all. This is the only true magic, "Know thyself."
Know the key-note of that which you desire, harmonize
yourself with it and then sound it.
"God geometrizes" is an ancient occult axiom which
cryptically expresses the fact that all manifestations
of God, life, nature, as they come into objectivity from
subjectivity, flow along geometrical lines and follow
The Origin of Numerical System.c 25
geometrical, laws. "It is an interesting fact that the
superior metals crystallize at the angle or comple-
mental angle of a regular polygon. If they sometimes
followed one form and sometimes another we should
not recognize them for what they are. We depend
for the fidelity of our perceptions upon the integrity of
the Great Geometer. * * * If we steadily regard the
geometry of Nature in the same patient and sincere
manner as did Hipparchus, Ptolemy, Kepler, Tycho,
Newton, Kelvin, and others we shall probably come to
the conclusion that number, as expressed in geometrical
relations, is the most intimate expression of the Soul
of things." Each such expression has its .number,
rate of vibration or wave-length, its sound, color and
form, and its own place in the Grand Plan or scheme
of the universe. This is as true of the forces which
create a world aS of those which create a snow crystal
As we have said elsewhere: "All Nature-shapes can be
traced back to and analyzed into simple geometrical
flgurs: ILDO just as all musical notes produce
characteristic designs when made to pass through sand
or other suitable material."13
"Thus the e-vohition and correlation of the
mysteries of Kosmos, of its growth and devel-
opmentspintual and physical, abstract and con-
cretewere first recorded in geometrical changes
of shape."
In view of the above facts, some understanding of
the origin and significance of numbers and geometrical
forms is necessary -to the larger conception of divine
manifestation, whether in man, nature or the universe.
For numbers are not arbitrary symbols, but constitute
a sacred science, its symbols being generated by the
manifestation of all nature and the.Cosmos itself, as
we shall endeayoc to show herein.
-
1711. Xb.I. of Nrwbeys, Sepbarial U. 234.
" V. of I. 357.
"S. D.. L 341.
CHAPTER 2
THE SYMBOL OF THE 0 AND THE SERPENT
"God is a circle, the center of which is every-
where and the circumference nowhere."Pascal.
"Alone, the One Form of Existence stretched
boundless, infinite, causeless, in Dreamless Sleep;
and Life pulsated unconscious in Universal Space,
throughout that All-Presence, which is sensed
by the Open Eye of Dangma." Stanzc of
Dsya,s, I, &
In numerical systems the Q is the 1st symbol to be
considered, as it is the 1 from which all others proceed.
It is a symbol of Unmanifested Deity; in the Bible,
the darkness of Chaos from which the Cosmos
emerges. It is the Night of Brahm in which all is
latent, "a boundless darkness on the ground of which
appears the first central point in white." It may sound
paradoxical to call the Deity, whom we are wont to
think of as Universal Life and Omnipotent Being, a
circle of darkness, yet right here the student must
begin to adjust his point of view to the occult and
mystical conceptions. A fundamental axiom is that
"extremes meet," also that vibrations of light and life
may be so intense that they cannot be perceived by
man's physical sensesthe solar spectrum above violet,
for instancehence are apparently darkness and non-
existence. Such a boundless circle of pulsating, vi-
brant yet undifferentiated life-force proceeding from
the Center of All Life, forms the "waters of the Great
Deep," deep in that they are unfathomable and incom-
prehensible to undeveloped man. Only when the Spirit
of God moves upon these waters and the Wordthe
The Symbol of the 0 and the Serpent 27
Son of Godis sent down into manifestation, are the
waves of this Great Deep stilled, 1. e., the vibrations are
slowed down so that that which we understand as life
begins to manifest.
Having neither beginning nor end, as we have said
elsewhere: "The circle represents Boundless Space
and limitless Time in Eternity. It marks off the space
in which creation takes place, or the Circle formed by
the down-pouring of the Great Creative Force. * * *
It is much like the circle of light projected by a magic
lantern, within which the pictures are to appear. In
one sense it is the circle of the unmanifested zodiac
(the pathway of our solar system)." In other words
it is the Boundless Sphere of Space within which our
entire Cosmos is manifesting. Our earth is but 1 point
or digit in this mighty circle or cipher.
The 0 is called naught or no-thing because no thing
has been differentiated or manifested. It is the Silence
of Non-Being. It is "the secret habitation of the ever
invisible Deity."
"In the minds of the ancient Philosophers
something of the Divine and mysterious has ever
been ascribed to the shape of the circle. The
old world, consistent in its symbolism and with
its Pantheistic intuitions, uniting the visible and
the invisible Infinitudes into one, represented
Deity and its outward Veil alikeby a circle.'"
"In the beginning was a great Abyss (Chaos), nei-
ther Day nor Night existed; the Abyss was Ginnun-
gagop, the yawning gulf, without beginning, without
end. All-Father, the Uncreated, the Unseen, dwelt in
the Depth of the Abyss (Space), and willed, and what
was willed came into being."3 Ireneus in writing of
the number symbolism of the Marcosians says: "Be-
fore all universes there is a source (or beginning) be-
fore the primal source, prior even to that state which
'V. .1 1 414. 4.g.,d .iii she Gois, 22.
'S. D.. xi. 575.
28 The Key to the Umver:e
is inconceivable, ineffable, unnameable, which I num-
ber as Naughtness."4
It may be easier to form a conception of the begin-
nings of a mighty universe if we apply the same laws
and processes to the individual, for in our small way
we are all centers which send out invisible radiations
of life-force in a circle, the size of the circle being
limited by the forcefulness of the life within the center.
Until its forces are made concrete and directed toward
definite ends this circle is an invisible and unknown Q
of darkness, a Chaos, yet vibrant with potenciesour
vague and unformed desires, longings and ideals. This
circle is our sea, corresponding to the Great Deep. On
it we are rocking in the little boat of our personality.
The Christ within is asleep and spiritual darkness is
upon the face of the waters. We sail over the sea of
life wholly engrossed in the things pertaining to our
personality until a tempestuous and inharmonious con-
dition arises and threatens to overwhelm us. When
the personality sees no way of escape, in desperation
it cries out: "Lord save us: we perish." It appeals
to The Christ within: "Master, carest thou not that
we perish?" Then the Son of Man, the same omnipo-
tent Word sent forth in the beginning, arises and re-
bukes the tempestuous forces (winds) of adversity
which manifesting normally in man's creative Q
should steadily advance his evolution without over-
whelming him. The wind symbolizes the Breath of
the Spirit moving upon the waters of life. While it
should quicken the vibrations of the sea of life, it
should not be permitted to create a storm capable of
wrecking the little boat of personality. But when the
Master within is awakened He is able to rebuke the
tempestuous winds and say to the sea: "Peace, be
still."
-
'Fragm.,its of a Faith Forgost.n Mead, 373.
The Symbol of the Q and. the Serpent 29
"The Zerona Akerne is also the 'Boundless
Circle of Unknown Time,! from which Circle
issuc the radiant Lightthe Universal Sun, o*
Ormazd Ithe Logos or the "First Born"Jand
the latter is identical with Cronus, in his Æolian
form, that of a Cirde. For the Circle is Sar and
Saros, or Cycle. It was the Babylonian God
whose circular horizon was the visible symbol
of the invisible, while the Sun was the One
Cirde from which proceeded the cosmic orbs,
of which he was considered the leader. Zerona,
is the Chakra, or Circle, of Vishnu, the mysterious
emblem which is, according to the definition of
a Mystic, 'a curve of such a nature that as to any,
the least possible, part thereof if the curve be
projected m either way, it will proceed and
finally re-enter upon itself, and form one and the
same curveor that which we call the circle.' No
better definition could thus be given of the ,iotu,oJ
symbol and the evident nature of Deity, which
having its circumference everywhere (the bound-
less) baa, therefore, its central point also every-
where; in other words, is in every point of the
Universe."
The circle also represents the Garden of Eden which
contained everything that would be needed for the
growth and unfoldment of the as yet unmanifested
man or Adam, the number 1. It. was into this great
encompassing 0 or Garden that "the Lord God" (the
7 Elohim) put the 1st man, made in their 7 fold image,
"to dress it and keep it." In the midst of this Garden
was placed the Tree of Life which, astronomically and
astrologically, is the sun with all its life-giving powers
in the center of the zodiac, or the Dot in the circle.
As applied to man, the Tree of Life in the midst of
his "Eden" (body) refers to a deep mystery which,
when understood in its fullness, will, as the gods said,
make him "becon as one of us" (the Elohim) a per-
fect 0, knowing the good as well as the evil or both
halves of the Q. Man upon the physical plane stands
S. D.. 1.. 139.
30 The Key to the Universe
in the center of his circle, which reaches up to the
realms of the gods and also sweeps downward into the
nether worlds. Hence, ere he can manifest in and
master his complete 0 he must, like all Saviors, de-
scend into the hell of matter and become the savior
of all the lower kingdoms, ere 'he can ascend into the
higher realms or reenter Eden. This will be elabo-
rated in the chapter on number 17 in Volume II.
A circle formed by a serpentsymbol of life and
wisdomswallowing its tail, symbolizes unending life
or immortality. But this symbol means far more than
a cycle of time, for it also symbolizes the Source of
all creation, the Womb of Nature from which the
Universe comes forth and also the womb from which
the future man proceeds, even the fetus in the womb
being curved upon itself in a circular fashion. This
is the esoteric meaning of the so-called temptation to
create, as allegorized in the 3rd chapter of Genesis,
when the 0 or the serpent began its numerical evolu-
tions within the cycle of manifestation, 1. e., the Garden
of Eden. The serpent therefore represents the cosmic
Great Creative Force6 which manifests as sex-force
only when focused in the sex organs. The Great Cre-
ative Force is The Christ-force or that fructifying and
vivifying power through whose action all things are
brought into manifestation, not out of nothing but out
of the Q or great storehouse of potential energy
which awaits only the creative activity of "the Lord
God" (the Law of Good) to bring forth. In the bibli-
cal allegory we have the Godhead manifesting in its
positive (man) and negative (woman) aspects with
the magnetic attraction of the Creative Force (serpent-
power) uniting them and forming His likeness or the
expression of the Trinity on earth.
The manifestation of the Great Creative Force in its
aspect as sex is a most potent factor in man's evolu-
See V. of 1.. 173. 244-6. 366.
The Symbol of the 0 and the Serpent 31
tionspiritual as well as physical. In fact upon its
right understanding rests the destiny of mankind on
this planet. For only through generation, and the les-
sons learned through the manifestation of the Great
Creative Force in its most dense and material aspect
of sex, can mankind reach regeneration. Only by the
power of The Christ can man meet and conquer all
that comes to him in this day of manifestation, and out
of the seemingly blind forces of its chaotic night cre-
ate a new day.
"Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast
of the field."
In this connection many students do not observe the
proper distinction between the words subtil which is
used to describe the serpent, and subtle which has quite
a different meaning. According to the Standard Dic-
tionary .cubtil means "having fine structure, not gross
or dense; rarifled; refined; attenuated; ethereal, hence
penetrating as a subtil perfume," while "subtle is used
as an attribute of mind in the derogatory sense of
crafty,' We therefore see - that the serpent is not
represented as crafty and enticing, but as an ethereal
creative force which unites the positive and nega-
tive and enables them to bring forth. "In the
Egyptian mythology, Kneph the Eternal unrevealed
God is represented by a snake-emblem of eternity
encircling a water-urn, with his head hovering over
the waters, which he incubates with his breath. In
this case the serpent is Agathodaimon, the good spirit;
in its opposite aspect it is the Kakothodaimonthe
bad one."7
"It is owing to the serpent being oviparous,
that it became a symbol of Wisdom and an
emblem of the Logoi, or the Self-Born. * * *
The Creative God emerges from the Egg that
issues from the mouth of Kneph, as a winged.
- 'zig UwJ. Blmtaky. 1, 133.
32 The Key to the Universe
Serpent, for the Serpent is the symbol of the
All-Wisdom. With the Hebrews the same Deity
is glyphed by the Flying or 'Fiery Serpents' of
Moses in the Wilderness; and with the Alexan-
drian Mystic she becomes the Orphio-Christos, the
Logos of the Gnostics. The Protestants try to
show that the allegory of the Brazen Serpent and
the Fiery Serpents has a direct reference to
the mystery of the Christ and the Crucifixion,
whereas, in truth, it has a far nearer relation to
the Mystery of generation, when dissociated from
the Egg with the Central Germ, or the Circle
with its Central Point. Without the Egg it was
purely a phallic symbol, but when associated there-
with, it related to cosmic creation."
"So little have the first Christians * * * tinder..
stood the first four chapters of Genesis in their
esoteric meaning, that they have never perceived
that not onl7 was no sin intended * * * but that
the 'Serpent was actually the 'Lord God' himself,
who, as Ophis, the Logos, or the bearer of the
divine creative wisdom, taught mankind to become
creators in their turn. They never realized that
the Cross was an evolution from the Tree and
the Serpent, and thus became the salvation of
,nankind. By this it would become the very
first fundamental symbol of Creative Cause, apply-
ing to geometry, to numbers, to astronomy, to
measure and to animal reproduction."
What can be plainer? The Divine Creative Force
degraded by man has become through man's evil
thoughts, the Tempter and Devil! Yet it must mani-
fest in matter (number 4) as the cross, following the
sequence of the 0' 1, 2 and 3. Hence only when mere
animal desire and the wrong use and abuse of this
nighty .q'rtual force of creativeness, ha been cruci-
fied and balanced upon the cross of matter can the
scriptures be fulfilled: "For since by man came death;
by man came also the resurrection from the dead."
"The divinity of the serpent is proved by the occur-
rence of a horned serpent with twelve Roman gods on
- 'S.D..I.389-90. '5.D..IX,26.
The Symbol of theOassdthe SerÊent 33
a Gallo-Roman altar. In other cases a horned or
ram's-headed serpent appears as an attribute of
a god. * * * M. Reinach lnims that the
primitive elements of the Orphic myth of the
Thracian Dionysos-Zagrensthe divine serpents pro-
ducing an egg whence came the homed snake
Zagrens, occur in dislocated form in Gaul. There
enlacing serpents were believed to produce a magic
egg,1° and there a horned serpent was worshipped
* * * and horned serpents are known in other
mythologiesthe horn being perhaps a symbol of
divinity.'ta The homed serpent referred to above
was not worshipped, any more than is the cross of the
Christian world today, but was a symbol of Divine
Wisdom. Stinson Jarvis explains it thus: "Out of the
great female Egg parent, the M -0 ON (Mother
EGG), comes the Druid sign of Wisdom, the Serpent.
Thus every tail-sign, CU, growing out of the head, or
Egg (as shown in the Q), tells of the Wisdom that
comes from the Head, and the carved Moon-priest at
Palenkt has a great CU hanging down from the back
of his bead, because this wisdom serpent called CU
comes out of the Egg, or Head, namely, out of the
M IN - D or Moon Deity, who is our word M I N D,
and is also the Cat goddess pictured in my fourth
Chapter. * * * Our 'Ophi-d-i-a-n' or Snake, is
the Time-sign alphabetic Serpent named in the Greek
word for snake as O-PH-I-S, which says CI RC-EL,
'The Island Sign,' because it named the Circle Church.
* * * In the same kind of naming the Ophites, a
[so-cafledj heretic branch of the early Christians, bad
a Snake god named by them as the father of sciences;
and their name Ophi-Te-s records their 'Snake God,'
"A curious amulet, cosinected with the Druids, became famous
io Roman times and is described bg Pliny. This was the serpent's egg';
formed from the foam produced by serpents twining themselves together.
* Pliny baa seen this egg! It was about the size of an app!., with a
cartilaginous skin covered with discs. Probabiy it was an echinus, such
as baa been found in Gauliab tombs." (S. D., I. 328.) Mrs. Curtis.
baa had I of these "serpent's egs" since childhood1 It having been
found by her father upon the Giants' Causeway In Ireland. It Ia a
fossil echinus.
The R,IIgiOI, .1 She Aacie,S Cdi, Ifacculoch, 211.12.
34 The Key to the Universe
and themselves as 'Snake [Wisdom] People,' in the
regular way."12
It is therefore a mistake, due to ignorance of its
symbology, to identify the serpent with evil or the
devil. It was only by man's perversion of his god-like
power to create, and his misuse of it for mere animal
gratification and to further his own selfish ends, that
he has created all the evil from which he and all the
kingdoms below him have suffered from the time of
its 1st misuse. Each stage of unfoldment and each
passing phase of evolution has its needs and its highest
point of expression, like the crest of each in-rushing
wave of the sea. The sacred function of Creation, of
which sex is but 1 expression, must not be confined
merely to its animal function of procreation, for pro-
creation is but 1 breaker on the shore of time. That
which is called sex when operating through the sex
organs of the body, becomes Divine Creative Christ-
force when operating through nature; Creative Idea-
tion when functioning through the mind, and the out-
going of the Divine Breath, or the Urge to Manifest
of the God-creativeness when functioning through the
Cosmos, all being expressions of the Eternal Motion
or the 1 Life of the Divine 0. While the creative
function must have its expression through our animal
body, as must all our functions, and while it has its
animal aspect, it is by no means limited to that animal
aspect, but has its higher and spiritual uses as well.
"As to the importance of ardent love between pa-
rents, the irony would seem to be that many women,
owing to early lack of hygiene and attention to perfect
physical development, are incapable of reaching any
depth of such feelings, while a few take actual pride
in such insensitiveness due to distorted ideas of sex
and chastity. Under such conditions, union for what-
ever purpose must be far from ideal. Vt/hat it all
' The J..w Laurs, Ch*pter x.
TlieymboloftheQandtheSerpen 35
comes to is that with some temperaments, a sacra-
mental union for the deepening of unity and the blend-
ing of the two natures should be fully recognized apart
from the careful consideration due to the creation of
children." '
When nature intends that the sex function in hu-
manity shall be limited to procreation only, there will
be but 1 season in the year when the human female can
be impregnated. Until that time, the very fact that
this is not the case shows that there must be otherand
higher uses for that function."
Among the highly cultured Druid Priests who
brought with them to Britain and Gaul much of the
wisdom of their Hyperborean ancestors, every letter
was a word and a symbol which pictured that which
it chiefly represented. Later on these single-letter-
words were combined into syllables and longer words,
but always carrying with them something of the origi-
nal meaning of the individual letters of which they
were composed. As Stinson Jarvis shows: "As on
many other carvings, the Ears of the High Priest who
was deity, are shown by two forms of the letter '0'.
The alphabet word '0' is the full Celtic name of the
Ear, and its naming of this god-man's Ears is of itself
a complete identification of his image with the Celtic
Church. * * * The Church named herself by the
'0'; and because she was the Ear, Eye and Mouth of
the world, the '0' names all three, as in Os, the mouth,
Oculus and Ophthalmos, the Eye, and '0', Og and Ous,
the Ear. Consequently the winged '0' was the regular
record carving of the Church.* * * Our '0' named
the Eye, Ear and Mouth, because this was the EYE
of the Circle Church, named in the Celtic as Al N,
meaning both Eye and Circle, and was carved in
America and everywhere as the Winged Eye or Circle.
Thus the vision-forms of Ezekiel are described a& 'coy-
"M.drn, Astrology. Sept., 1915, letter on page 376.
1S1?e Lek,s from : Trochcr, Curtias, Chapter ix.
° For a fiUcr explæiatlon see page 389.
36 The Key to the Universe
ered with eyes,' as the Los Angeles king-tablets from
Teotihuacan are also covered with Eyes, picturing the
all-seeing eye of the deity Church."15 Thus the 0'
as the symbol of the Boundless Deity from whence all
things come into manifestation, became the symbol of
their church, because the church represented that Deity
among men, and because their Priests, being the de-
scendants of the Missionary-Initiates from the original
sacred college of the ancient Hyperboreans, set forth
the principles and worship of the one 0 Deity to the
peoples of Britain and Gaul, just as did brother Initi-
ates sent to India, Chaldee, Egypt, North America,
Mexico and Peru. The world wide travels of these
ancient Missionary-Initiates and their descendants ac-
count for the finding of the same symbols and legends
in all countries to express the same ideas. Their places
of worship were therefore built in circular form, our
modern word for a place of worship, church, being the
same as the "Anglian C YR C and C I R C and
K I R K are all the same in naming the 'Church,'
which in Britain was formed as a C I R CL E and
named it." ' The circle was also their sign for Time,
Turn and Cycle.
"Under any of its names, the Belt or Gird had the
same reference to the circling of the sun which named
the Church, and thus the Hawk which flies in a circle
and describes this holy form in the air was chosen as
a picture-name of the priesthood and named in Greek
as 'KIRKos' (Church or Circle). This is the Hawk
which, as Job says, was made to fly southward, and in
Egypt was the head of the local priesthoodhis name,
'KIRKos' recording him as the Circle and the
Church." 1
To indicate their spiritual authority derived from
the one Q or including Deity, the priests, and often
the rulers of various nations, wore as a head-dress a
21 Th. Jayvss LtS,rs, xl W.
' Th Jtwvi, L,St.rs,. clispter H, xl.
The Symbol of the 0 and the Serpent 37
circlet of feathers, as do the American Indian Chiefs,
the Kings of Hawaii and others. This head-dress
"has the CI R C - L E - T of Feathers, because the
light feather, under any of its names, always names
the parent church identified with the Air; and the
Anglian word for feather, as F - A E - D ER, also
means Father," again the parent C) or source of all.
Since the ()is the plane in which the Deitythat
which contains the potencies of all spiritual powers
is to manifest, in its perfect expression the Church on
earth should be the plane of all embracing () which
holds the potencies of all that humanity can require for
the manifestation of its spiritual life, the true Priest-
hood being the Dot in the center of the circle.
The Round Towers of Ireland, of which only 18 or
20 out of more than 120 exist today, were connected
with the Druid sacred colleges and hence were circular
in shape. According to Jarvis: "The Round Towers
of Ireland have never had their uses explained, but as
the towers of Peru and Babylon were admittedly for
astronomical purposes, so Ireland always bad her ob-
servatories; and as these were her chief structures and
landmarks, their names were used to identify her with
the secretive stories, and also to name her Time-gods,
her astronomical priests, and even her coloniessuch
as the Tyrians, whose name T U R - I, means 'Tower
Islanders.' * * * That some of these observato-
ries existed before the pyramids were built is shown in
the fact that the picture of a Tower is built inside the
Great Pyramid to name our T U R of Jupiter."17
In the book of Daniel (iii) we are told that Nebuch-
adnezzar set up his wonderful golden image in the
Plain of Dura, the meaning of Dura being a "round
or circular enclosure." And the round Tower of Belus
or Bel in the center of the circular Temple of the Sun
in_Babylon is familiar to all classical students and anti-
" Ibid.. Chapter £1. ii. "Ibid Chapter z.
38 The Key to the Universe
quarians. The steeple or tower connected with the
temple or place of worship in Christian and other
countries today is but a survival of this once sacred
syrnbology.
We here wish to call especial attention to c reniaricable series of
articles by' Mr. Stinson Jarvis which appeared in the Los Angeles
Susday Times during 1912-13. Mr. Jarcis has performed a most import-
ant service for all students of comparative religion and mythology
by tracingtbrough the original meanings of the individual symbol.
lettersthe common origin of all great religions, myths, allegories.
heroes, symbols and ceremonies. As we shall take pleasure in quot-
ing frequently from these "Letters" we wish here to express our apprecia-
tion of the great work he has done in placing this vast amount of facts,
together with his wonderfully consistent scheme of interpretation, at
the disposal of his fellow student, of religion and mythology. There
is one fundamental deduction, howeyer, with which we must tAke issue
with Mr. Jarvis. At the time these articles were written he had evi-
dently not looked up the ancient esoteric teachings a. to the origin
of the Race, of mankind, hence Is led to identify the Druid Priests
of the historical period with the ancient Iiyperboreans of the Second
Great Race of mankind, and as a result credit, these Priests with the
origin of all religions, languages, symbols, sciences, etc. As a matter of
fact the Druid Priests were merely the remote descendants of the
original Mssionary-1nitiates, Masters of Wisdom or God-men of the
Golden or Hyperborean Age who were sent out to all lands to teach
the nations of the Third (Lemurjan) and Fourth (Atlantean) Races
ibe one true, universal and all.includlng spiritual Sun Wørsbip now
cslled the Wisdom Religion. Student, who are especially interested in
this subject should look up the references to the Hyperboreans in Mme.
Blavatalcy's Secret Ðocfrs*. which, with the above exception, largely
corroborates Mr. Jarvis' deductioni.
- We do not present these and subsequent quotations from the
"jarvis Letters" as having our lull endorsement, but as being suggestive
and in a measure corroborative of the esoteric philosophy expounded
herein.
CHAPrki 3
TEE ()AS THE EGG AND THE CAT.
Bralinia, the self-existing, "desiring to produce
various creatures from his own body, first, with
a thought, created the waters, and deposited in
them a seed. This seed became a golden egg,
resplendent as the sun, in which he himself
was born as- Brabma, the progenitor of all
worlds."Sonsknt Te.rU, Muir, 27.
"rhus when the Orphic poet desired to go
further back than the point to which the Hesiodic
theogony traces the generation of the Kosmos,
he traced the Universe to the great mundane
egg produced by Chronos, time, out of Chaos and
Aithera symbol answering to the mighty
mixing-bowl of the Platonic demiourgos, and akin
to all the circular, oval or boat-shaped emblems
of fertility."The Mythology of She Armi
Nations, Cox, 437.
The 0 is the "golden egg" or the "serpent's egg,"
the Womb of Nature front which the universe is
hatched; an universal symbol.
"The mystery of the apparent self-generation
and evolution through its own creative power,
repeating in miniature, in the egg, the process
of cosmic evolutionboth due to heat and
moisture under the efflux of the unseen creative
spiritfully justified the selection of this graphic
symbol The 'Virgin-Egg' is the microcosmic
symbol of the macrocosmic prototype, the 'Virgin
Mothcr'Chaos or the Primeval Deep. * S P
Kosmos, as receptive Nature, is an egg fructified
yet left immaculate; for once regarded as
boundless, it could have no other representation
than a spheroid."1
'S. D.. L 95.
40 The Key to the Universe
While the egg is a true symbol of all physical gem.
eration, it is also a symbol of The Christ Seed within
each heart. For within the spheroidal aura surround-
ing each Soul like tb shell of an egg, there is a germi-
nal center, The Chrisc Seed, common to all his bodies
physical, astral, mental, etc.which, like the germ
center within the egg, gradually grows and unfolds
until The Christ Man emerges. He is then just as
much a new and altogether different expression of the
Soul as is the chicken different from the egg when it
emerges from its shell.
"The Chinese believe that their First Man
was born from an Egg, which Tien dropped
down from Heaven to Earth into the Waters.
This egg-symbol is still regarded by some as
representing the idea of the origin of life, which
is a scientific truth, though the human ovum is
invisible to the naked eye. * * * The Christians.
especially the Greek and Latin Churcheshave
fully adopted the symbol, and see in it a com-
memoration of life eternal, of salvation and of
resurrection. This is found in, and corroborated
by, the time-honored custom of exchanging
'Easter-Eggs'. From the Anguinum, the 'Egg'
of the Pagan Druid, whose name alone made
Rome tremble with fear, to the red Easter Egg
of the Slavonian peasant, a cycle has passed. And
yet, whether in civilized Europe, or among the
abject savages of Central America, we find the
same archaic, primitive thought."'
Among the Greeks, Eros (Love) is poetically de-
scribed as having issued from the Egg of Night as it
floated on the waters of Chaos. Since Divine Love is
the outbreathing whose vibrations quicken the Chaos
of unmanifested life held within the mighty circle of
the Great Deep, Eros, as the symbol of Love mani-
festing on the physical plane, can indeed be said to issue
from the Egg of Night. The goddess Venus, his
'S. D.. 1. 391.2.4.
The 0 as the Egg and the Cat 41
mother, is the Ruler of the planet Venus, the sister
planet of our earth.
"According to the Occult Doctrine, this Planet
is our Earth's primarj and its Spiritual proto-
type.'
The planet Venus is so closely aflinitized with our
earth and so closely connected with itS evolution, as
with its birth, that it is said that every sin committed
on earth is felt by its Guardian Spirit, also that every
great regenerating or spiritual movement on earth,: like
a great wave of Love and helpfulness, is 1st commu.
nicated to the Ruler of Earth by the Spirit of Venus.
The sea-foam from which she is represented to have
arisen was the result of the churning of the Great Deep
as Chaos responded to the life-giving vibrations of
Creative Love when the Word was spoken: "Let there
be Light."
It will be remembered, however, that Venus com-
plained to Themis that her son Eros remained ever a
child; in other words, human love remained undevel-
oped. Themis assured Venus that this was because
he was solitary, so soon afterward another son was
born to Venus, whom she called Anteros. He is rep-
resented both as the Avenger of slighted love and as
symbolic of reciprocal affection. Themis, who in the
myth is called Divine Justice, was the wife of Zeus and
mother of the Fates, hence represents Karma, while
Anteros is that aspect of Love which brings dire results
when Love is degraded or unrequited. He is that as-
pect of Love which enables the serpent to swallow its
tail or the circle to be completed, that human love may
once more be swallowed up in the òcean of Divine Love
from whence it emerged.
"Ra is shown like Brahniå gestating in the Egg
of the Universe * * 5Ancug the Greeks the
S. D. II. 34
42 The Key to the Universe
Orphic Egg is described by Aristophanes, and
was a part of the Dionysiac and other Mysteries,
during which the Mundane Egg was consecrated
and its significance explained; Porphry also shows
it to be a rtpresentation of the world."'
The myth of Leda is another symbol of the feminine
aspect of Divine Love, i. e., Libra, the Sheath of Venus,
for she was visited by Zeus in the guise of a Swan (the
Bird of Life) and is then said to have produced 2 eggs,
from 1 of which Castor and Polluximmortalized in
the heavens as the sign Gemini, the Twinswere born,
and from the other Helen, she for whose blandish-
ments the Trojan War was waged. Thus does life
bring forth from the great Mundane Egg, 1st, duality
Castor and PolIux symbolizing the intellectual facul-
ties brought forth from an earthly mother and a Divine
father, hence always vacillating and unbalancedand
2nd, Helen, the symbol of purely human love, beautiful,
seductive and the stirrer up of strife and bloodshed
among men.
"As Bryant shows, it [the egg] was a symbol
adopted among the Greeks, the Syrians, the Pers-
ians and Egyptians. In the Egyptian Ritua, Seb,
the God of Time and of the Earth, is spoken
of as having laid an 'Egg conceived at the hour
of the Great One of the Dual Force.' * * *
Whence this universal symbol? The Egg was
incorporated as a sacred sign in the Cosmogany
of every people on the earth, and was revered
both on account of its form and of its
inner mystery. From the earliest mental concep-
tions of man, it has been known as that which
represented most successfully the origin and secret
of Being. The radua1 development of the imper-
ceptible germ within the closed shell; the inward
working, without any apparent outward interfer-
ence of force, which from a latent nothing pro-
duced an active .romething, needing naught save
heat; and which, having gradually evolved into a
'S. D. L 353.
TheOastheEggandtheCa 4S
concrete, living creature, broke its shell, appearing
to the outward senses of all as a self-generated
and self-created being; all this must have been a
standing miracle from the bcinning.
"The Secret Teaching explains the reason for
this reverence by the symbolism of the prehistoric
races. In the beginnings, the 'First Cause' bad no
name. Later it was pictured in the fancy of the
thinkers, as an ever invisible, mysterious Bird that
dropped an Egg into Chaos, which Egg became
the Universe. Hence Brabma was called Kåla-
bansa, the 'Swan in (Space and) Time'. Becom-
ing the swan of Eternity, Brahmå, at the begin-
ning of each Mahåmanvantara, lays a Golden Egg
which typifies the Great Circle, or 0, itself a
symbol for the Ur.iverse and its spherical bodies."
It was this mystery which was always presented to
the candidates and explained during the Mysteries.
While the myth of the Mundane Egg was used as an
illustration to bring this great truth to their minds and
snake it a living reality in their hearts, they were
taught that The Christ Seed or Egg was dropped by
the Heavenly Dovecall it Bird of Life, Parabamsa,
Holy Ghost, or what you willin the nest of their
hearts, which they themselves had to build, purify and
prepare for its reception. Hence only as they made
conditions possible for this Divine Bird to hover over
them and find a nesting place in their hearts, could she
lay and hatch out the Egg. After the Egg was hatched
the Heavenly Dove brought daily to her nestlings the
heavenly food, Mother-love, on which they could feed
and flourish. Also as she made her home in the heart
and soared into the heaven world, she created a spiral
of magnetic life-force over which the fledgling candi-
date could consciously ascend and gather the experi-
ence of the higher realms. This is what is meant when
we are told: "Bestride the Bird of Life?'
"The engraving of a papyrus in Kircher's
OEdipus Egyptiacus, shows an egg floating above
'S. D.. L 354.5.
44 The Key to the Universe
the mummy. This is the symbol of hope and
the promise of a Second Birth for the Osirified
Dead; his Soul, after due purification in Arnenti,
will gestate in this Egg of Immortality, to be
reborn therefrom into a new life on earth. For
this Egg, in the Esoteric Doctrine, is Devachan,
the P. bode of Bliss, the Winged Scarabæus also
being another symbol of it The Winged Globe
is but another form of the Egg and has the
same significance."
"A second reason for the Egg having been
chosen as the symbolical representation of the
Universe, and of our Earth, was its form. It
was a Circle and a Sphere; and the ovi-form
shape of our Globe must have been known from
the beginning of syinbology, since it was so
universally adopted."
"The symbol of an egg also expresses the fact
taught in Occultism that the primordial form of
everything manifested, from atom to globe, from
man to angel, is spheroidal, the sphere being with
all nations the emblem of eternity and infinity
a serpent swallowing its tail." $
It is a scientific fact that in nature all eggs and most
seeds, in which the future animal, plant or man is
latent, are either globular or more or less modified
spheroids in shape. This is a scientific corroboration
of the occult teaching that the origins of all forms of
manifested life are spheroidal, "from the birth of new
Worlds out of central suns, down to the microscopic
cells of which all flesh is grown. * * * Our word
'cell' is the Celtic name of 'Heaven,' Cel, and this con-
tinuous birth of cell from cell was identical with Deity,
Church and priesthoodall belonging to the one system
for continuous gift and parturition."9 Even the astral
manifestations in a seance room, prior to their ethe-
realization or materialization, appear as globes of light
of more or less brilliancy.
'S.D.,!. 391. 'S.D. 1,94.
'5, D., I. 3&44. Th. finns Lsttsrs, xl.
TlseOas the Egg and the Cat
THE ()AND THE CAT.
The cat, owing to its habit of curling up in a circle
with its tail around its headto give but 1 reason
was consideredas a symbol of the Q. Hence, just as
the () contains within itself the life and power of the
9digits,sothecatissaidtohave9lives. Theterm
'lives" however, was originally not taken in its literal
sense, but as referring to the 9 manifestations of the
1 Life-current represented in the 9 digits.
"The Goddess Bash or Pasht, was represented
with the head of a cat. This nimul was held
sacred for several reasons. It was the symbol of
the Moon, the 'Eye of Osiris' or the 'sun's during
night The cat was also sacred to Sokhit. One
of the mystic reasons was because of its body
being rolled up in a circle when asleep. The
posture is prescribed for occult and magnetic
purposes, * * * the circulation of the vital fluid,
with which the cat is preeminently endowed. The
'sune lives of a cat' is a popular saying based
on good physiological and occult reasons."
"'Thus, the God Shoo, the personification of Ba,
who appears as the 'Great Cat' of the Basin
of Persæa in An, was often represented in Egyp-
tian monuments seated and holding a cross * * *
attached to a circle." n
Among the Egyptians the cat was held sacred not
only because it slept in the form of a () or, as many
suppose, because of its ability to see in the dark, but
because of its association with the Goddess Basht and
the moon. This relation has been explained by Pro-
fessor Max Muller as due to the fact that the eyes of
the cat become full orbed and grow most luminous in
the dark, and also because the moon was the Seer by
night in the heavens. The esoteric reason, however
is the ability of the cat to give out large quantities of
animal magnetism and physical life-force, as can so
easily be proved by stroking a cat in the dark. The
"S.D.,II583.
4,S
t46 The Key to the Unwerse
Egyptians knew that this magnetism was but the outer
manifestation of the life-force and that under proper
treatment this life-force could be given out so as to
be absorbed by man. They understood the law that
only through kindness and love could man make the
lower kingdoms yield him their forces in such a way
as to aid his own development. Hence, large numbers
of cats were kept in the temples and treated with
great care, that they might supply the Priests and
Seers with purified and harmonized animal magnetism
which certain of their duties and exercises abstracted
from their bodies. This use f the cat is probably the
origin of the superstition that a witch always had a
"familiar spirit" in the form of a black cat, as the
magnetism could of course be put to unholy as well
as holy uses. Also by observing them many auguries
were made, and much esoteric knowledge was deduced
from their disposition and actions which would sur-
prise the modem scholars who think of the cat only
as a mouse-catcher and midnight prowler.
In the ancient ruins called Tell Basta near Zagazig
a cemetery has been found devoted exclusively to
mummified cats. In the tombs of Beni Hasan and else-
where are found quantities of small images, not only
of Isis, Osiris and Horus, but also of the cat sitting in
watchful attitude, its eyes always prominent no matter
how small or crude the image. These images are
often strung on chains with mummy beads and
wrapped in the folds of the mummy cloths. Such
images were not used for mere decoration as many
think, but because the cat was looked upon as the
"Watcher of the Night," not only owing to its ability
to see in the dark, but also because of its extreme
sensitiveness to all astral influences and its unmistak-
able ability to see astral entities. Cats were made
household pets and closely watched so the owner might
TheQatheEggandtheC
e warned of the approach of undesirable astral forces
md entities which he would then proceed to exorcise.
They were placed in the tomb with the mummy for the
same purpose, s. e., to watch over the deceased and
warn him of evil influences in the nether world.
Among the Egyptians, "The male Cat is Ra himself,
and he is called 'Mau' by reason of the speech of the
God Sa, (who said) covering him: 'He is like unto
that which he hath made'; thus his name became
12
In Ireland and Scotland it is the common belief that
a 3 colored cat (tortoise-shell) brings good fortune,
hence if such a cat attaches itself to a home it is con-
sidered a sign of great good luck. The selection of
this particular kind of a cat is based upon the 3 colors
combined in its fur, namely, black, white and yellow,
thus showing that the ancient Celts had a practical
understanding of both color and number. It was also
held that the 3 colored cat was an aid to the unfold-
ment of the astral senses or "second-sight," the black
aiding clairvoyance, the yellow clairsentience and the
white ability to receive spiritual inspiration and proph-
esy. For these reasons a 3 colored kitten was often
given to a child as a constant companion and playmate,
believing that it would enable the child to see in the 3
worlds. Much of the psychic ability of the "canny
Scot" is attributed to this custom.
In The Jarvis Letters previously referred to, the
Great Cat or Lion is connected with the Jews and
Judah as follows: "Our big CAT lion made the whole
cat family sacred as a record-name; our Celtic CAT
naming the House or Family of Deity, and her picture
always named the Moon goddess, she being specially
identified with astronomy, being addressed on the walls
of Thebes as, '0 thou great CAT, thou who canst see
at night' * * * This Lion represents the deity
I.ok ci Ma DuL xvii.
48 The Key to the Universe
and the priesthood, always identified with these nam-
ings. This sitting L - I 0 N has the same posture as
the lion Sphinx whose Egyptian name is H - U-piter,
orHU-father. The HU, orJU,namedalltheJU-
peoples of Denmark, America, England and Syria, and
the Lion of J U D A was the biblical sign-name of the
Hebrews or J U S." u will be remembered that in
Revelation14 it was only this Great Cat or Lion which
was found worthy to open the Book of Life and loose
its 7 seals, i. e., only the ability to see in the darkness
of earth conditions the heavenly visions; the ability
to store up and give out to the Race the Divine Life-
force; the ability to manifest the powers of the 9
digits latent in the 0; and the ability consciously to
cope with all astral conditions, make of man the Lion
of the Tribe of Judah and enable him to unloose the
7 Seals and open the Book of Life. At the opening of
the 5th Seal there was a plague of locusts having lions'
teeth; at the opening of the 6th Seal horses appeared
having lions' heads, and when the 7 thunders uttered
their voices they roared as a lion, all of which points
out to the world the old esoteric doctrine that man
becomes the Lion only when he has completed his 0
and reached number 10; also that it is man himself,
while passing through the lower phases of animal pas-
sion, who brings to the Race the 7 plagues, judgments,
cataclysms, etc. Hence only when the lion and the
lamb can lie down together and submit to the leading
of The Christ-child, can the Lion of the Tribe of Judah
find his true place in the perfect city of the New Jeru-
salem, number 12.
TA. Jarvu L.SS.rs. *PteT II. "Chapter, 5.
CHAPTER 4
TEE QAS THE AURA AND TIlE RING PASS NO?.
"Just as the Square is the symbol of the
Four sacred Forces or Powers, Tetraktys, * * *
so the Circle shows the boundary within Infinity
that no man, even in spirit, or Deva or Dhyan
aiohan can cross."
The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, 1, 159.
Applied to man the 0 symbolizes the sacred Auric
Egg which envelops him
"like the yolk of an egg (the future embryo) by
the albumen and shell. This to the perceptions
of higher Beings from other- planes, makes of
each individuality an oval sphere of more or less
radiancy."
The esoteric teaching is that after its involution into
matter, the evolution of each Soul takes place along a
spiral pathway within a series of concentric spheres
of differing densities, whose centers are all within the
physical shell, corresponding to the concentric globes
forming the Earth Chain, the finer interpenetrating all
the denser. Since the law followed by the cosmic is
also followed by the individual manifestation, we refer
the reader to what we have said elsewhere concerning
those interpenetrating spheres, as it describes the cor-
responding make up of man's Aura.
When the Soul has manifested the most essential
and characteristic possibilities of the smallest, inmost
and densest sphere of the aura, it breaks through that
confining shell following a spiral path, and is born into
a larger sphere of consciousness, being or orbit of evo-
lution, whose forces will aid in perfecting and corn-
'S.D. III. 440. Y..f 1.207-0.
50 The Key to the Universe
pleting the possibilities of the former sphere. For in-
stance, as long as man's consciousness responds only
to the sense impressions from the physical world he is
confined within that sphere of matter and consciousness
which vibrates to the physical plane. But as soon as
his sense organs are attuned to the vibrations of the
next finer and larger sphere of substance and con-
sciousness, which surrounds and interpenetrates the
lesser, he is born into the astral world or sphere of his
aura, called "The Hall of Learning," and so on into
the still higher spheres. Only when man is able to
vibrate in unison with all the spheres which surround
him, and has brought into expression the potencies of
them all, has he completed his evolution of man as
man.
Physical man, and the physical globe, like a seed
or egg, therefore contains within him, in germ, all the
forces, powers and materials necessary for him to mani-
fest his godlike possibilities. But this physical seed of
the Real Man stands in the center of 7 concentric
spheres, in each of which certain of his possibilities
must manifest. And to evolve into and manifest in
these various spheres the shell of his physical limita-
tions, like the shell of the egg or seed, must be opened
through the growth of the germ already present within
that shell. To more fully explain this point and empha-
size the importance of the teaching, we quote from The
Voice of Isis. "Undeveloped man responds chiefly to
the vibrations of the phyicaI globe, those things which
he can see, hear, taste, handle, etc., and cannot compre-
hend or function in the globes belonging to the psychic
and spiritual planes. * * * Man must ultimately
function and gain experience on all seven globes at the
same time, checking up, balancing and perfecting the
experience of one by that gained on the other, thus
rounding out his seven-fold nature into the Real Man.
The 0 as the Aura and the Ring Pass Not 51
Only thus can he gain Mastery over the portion of
goods given him by his Father-in-heaven." $ As it
contains in potentiality all that his later evolution can
unfold in any 1 cyde of manifestation, man's aura may
be compared to a school-boy's trunk packed for a dis-
tant journey; for it contains all the goods given him
by his father, together with the provisions necessary
for the journey itself.
The aura is called the
uLuminou$ Egg' (Hiranyagarbha), or the in-
visible magnetic sphere in which every man is
enveloped. (So are the 2ulnl2ls, the plants, and
even the minerals.) It is the direct imantion:
(a) from the Atnilc Ray in its triple aspect of
Creator, Preserver and Destroyer (Regenerator);
and (b) from Buddhi-Manas. The seventh aspect
of this individual Aura is the faculty of assum-
ing the form of its body and becoming the
'Radiant', the Luminous Angocides. It is this,
strictly speaking, which at times becomes the
form called Miyâyi Rûpa. It is also the material
from which the Adept forms his Astral Bodies,
from the Augoeides and the MiYåVI Rûpa down-
wards."'
Just as the dedmal system was formerly esoteric,
so was all information concerning the nature of the
aura until some time after the teachings concerning it
were brought to the Western world by Mine. Blavat-
sky. There is always, however, a good and wise reason
for thus guarding certain truths from 1 generation and
revealing them to a subsequent. Since the days of the
Atlanteans, when much dangerous knowledge was ex-
tant concerning the performance of magic, the aura has
been known to be the storehouse of the forces called
into activity in magical procedures. And because of
the degrading use (black magic) made of this knowl-
edge by those who used it unlawfully, those who faith-
fully follow their Divine Instructors are carefully
V. .1!.. 201*. S. D.. 111.4454.
52 The Key to the Universe
taught the responsibility incurred by those who pub-
licly give out information likely to bring upon mankind
a catastrophe similar to that which destroyed Atlantis.
But in the present age, when there is a tendency among
certain classes of scholars to decry the existence or
possibility of what is called Magic and belittle the
necessity of understanding the Mysteries, it is the pol-
icy of the Great Teachers to stimulate such lines of
investigation by revealing certain ancient truths long
hidden from the general public. The Great Law today
is just as inexorable as in former ages, and no fire-.
brand of esoteric knowledge will be given directly to
man. The way to the higher knowledge may be
pointed out. The Great Teachers may say, "Search
here," but only the diligent and the pure in heart, the
true and the faithful will be given knowledge which,
in the hands of the ignorant, the ambitious or the im-
pure, might be turned to the injury and degradation
of the Race. This is why only by the general advance
of the Race can the hidden things of 1 cycle, as evolu-
tion unfolds mankind, become the revealed of succeed-
ing cycles. It is the same law by which the inner and
hidden petals of a rose are revealed only as the flower
as a whole advances in its unfoldment. And just as
the evolving Soul steps over his Ring Pass Not only
as he vibrates to the rate of the larger sphere, so with
the Race.
As we have said elsewhere: "In another sense the
circle is the (individual) RiAg Pass Not (the limit of
the auric zone) which every true disciple should put
around himself, and whose Gates (corresponding to
the centers of the body) he must open and close at will
to admit or exclude that which he chooses."5 This
Ring is a boundary which separates each of the con-
centric sheres mentioned above, from the next finer,
but is a Ring Pass Not to the substance and conscious-
P. .1 1.. 414.
The 0as the Aura and theRng Pair Not 53
ness of thi! denser sphere only until the vibrations of
the latter have been raised to harmonize or become 1
with the rate of the finer sphere, whereupon there is
no barrier between the 2. It is because of this Ring
Pass Not, like a shell around every sphere, that at
every decisive step from 1 sphere of consciousness to
the next higher, the student is met with the axiom
"Know Thyself." For the knowledge of the Self must
include a knowledge of how to raise the vibrations of
the sphere in which the aspirant is manifesting until
they become 1 with those of the higher sphere which
be desires to enter. Each student must live his life
from within and unfold his possibilities through his
own efforts and through the bringing into inanifesta-
tion of the powers which each has in potentiality
within.
This is the basic reason why we oppose all negative
forms of abnormally 'reaking through the Ring by the
aid of alcohol, drugi or psychic forces invoked while
in a negative state." As we have explained elsewhere:
"Another way in which the doors (of the aura or
Ring) arc frequently broken open is by placing your-
elf in a passive, non-resisting state and m2lnng the
demand for psychic experiences, or sitting for. devel-
opment as it is called (something quite different from
entering the silence for spiritual conununion). In this
practice you are placing yourself in such a negative
state that any entity dwelling even on the lower astral-
plane can help you break open the doors. This either
destroys the doors or abnormally forces the develop-
ment of the psychic centers instead of unfolding them
as a natural accompaniment of spiritual growth.T
In 1 sense the aura is the Holy Ghost, the sin
against which is the perversion of the auric forces and
'It Is a reprebensible practice among some medium, to take a
glass of whiskey before going Into the cabinet even though better
phenomena are produced as a result. See The Life .1 James (ParwAr)
Rifr Vlerebone, 102-3. where hi. astral guide recommend, the prac-
tice. This I. one of the reason, why many medium, ultimately become
the victims of sleoboilsin.
'This matter Is fully discussed In Th. Voice of Lu In the cb,Isr
of "Narcotic.. AlCOhol and P,ycbiasi.'
54 The Key to the Universe
the destruction of the centers. While each individuaL
and each globe has its Ring Pass Not, it is the Ring
Pass Not of the Cosmos which is referred to in the
quotation which heads this chapter, and also in the
following:
"No spirits except the 'Recorders' (Lipika)
have ever crossed the forbidden line of the
Ring, nor will any do so until the day of the
next Pralaya, for it is the boundary that sep-
arates the Finitehowever infinite in man's sight
from the truly Infinite."'
From all that has been said we see that the 0 as a
symbol of the Source from which all manifestation
proceeds, is no arbitrary or man-made symbol, but is
inherent in Nature herself. Therefore let the circle
remind you that you have the potency and power of
the Unmanifested overshadowing you; that you are
dwelling in a mighty sphere of unmanifested powers
which it is your duty to understand, unfold and
bring into manifestation ere you can pass through
the evolution of the numerals and reach the per-
fection of your cycle of manifestation in number 10.
Let it remind you of the source from whence you
have received the portion of goods given you by your
Father-in-heaven crc you took your journey into this
far country of material embodiment, and that these
goods are the materials out of which you must furnish
your mansion in heaven or the immortal, spiritual ve-
hicle which you must ultrmately attain crc you can
manifest the Real Self or the God-within on all planes.
'S. D.. I.. 157.
CHAPTER 5
THE SYMBOL OF THE
1he Infinite was entirely unknown and diffused
no light before the luminous point violently broke
through into vision."Zohar.
"ilie Monad, or Point, is the original and is
the Unit from which follows the entire numeral
system."
The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, I, 459-60.
The point within the circle Qis a symbol which
must be considered both with the 0 and the 1 as it
is the connecting link between the 2. The Dot within
the circle is the 1st manifestation of the latent Deity
or Deity in activity, the 1st Cause; Unity within
Eternity, the 1st differentiation from the homogeneous
state represented by the circle
In the metaphysical world, the Circle with its
one central Point in it has no number, and is
called Anupådakaparentless and numberless, for
it can fall under no calculation * * * is * * * a
center of energy, which I shall for the present call
the Logos. * * * it is called the Verbum ** *
by the Christians, and it is the divine Christos
who is eternal in the bosom of his Father."
"In him is an illimitable abyss of glory, and from it
there goeth forth one little spark which maketh all the
glory of the sun, and of the moon, and of the stars."2
The Dot Within the circle is the Causal Soul or per-
sonal god of each individual, while the Higher Self is
the Causal Soul enriched by the experiences garnered
by the personalities in which it incarnates life after
life, and stored up as individuality in the Higher Self.
'S. D., L, 118 ISS.
An ---.4.-' oracl quoted in The KûhI.b Omil.4, i938
56 The Key to the Universe
In the individual man the Dot is the manifestation of
the Ray shot out in the beginning from 1 of the 7
Elohim (the 7 Flames), and becomes the Creative Dot
in that individual, which remains throughout the en-
tire Kalpa as a nucleus and overshadowing Principle.
This Dot periodically sends down its 1 Ray into mani-
festation through a personality. For a Ray must incar-
nate again and again until all the experiences repre-
sented by the cycle of numbers from 1 to 9 are stored
up in the Higher Self. Thus the Dot and the 1 with
the Q together make the Higher Self (10). It is
the potency of this Dot in all the numbers, stimulated
by the overshadowing of the Dot itself, which causes
their evolution or unfoldment. In turn this Dot in the
individual is overshadowed by the Causal Soul of the
Universe. This is not the Absolute or Causeless
Cause, the fathomless Eternal, but is that which the
Christians call God, the Lord, and the Hindus Ishvara,
the Lord.
If we consider the Dot as a bright flame in the cen-
ter of a circle, or say the pure white light of the sun
in the center of the zodiac, as the sun sends forth its
rays they manifest the 7 colors of the spectrum, and
as each ray touches the circumference it makes a Dot
of its own color. The sun in the center will therefore
represent the Higher Self or the Divine Dot, while the
many lesser dots on the circumference will represent
its many personalities, each manifesting but 1 shade
of the central Light, and each becoming pure white
light only as all are indrawn into the center. The en-
tire circle will then become a globe of pure white radi-
ance and take its place in turn as a dot upon the cir-
cumference of a still mightier circle whose center is
Go
In the case of an Avatar it is this overshadowing
Dot or Causal Soul of the Universe which sends into
The Symbol of the () 57
manifestation a 1, the Son, who united. with the
Father, becomes not 1 of the 7 Rays or Flames (Elo-
him), but the 1 Great Ray in which all the 7 Rays
are united. Hence all Avatars are like pearls strung
on this mighty manifestation of the 1 God, just as all
the lives of an individual are strung upon the individu-
alized Ray from 1 of the 7 Elohim, the Higher Self.
Speaking of an ancient record written on palm
leaves and Illustrating the symbology of primordial
beginnings, Mine. Blavatsky says:
"On the frst page in an iImnnl2te white disk
within a dull black ground. On the following
page, the same disk, but with a central point.
The first, the student knows, represents Kosmos
in Eternity before the reiwakening of still
slumbering Energy, the Fm2nation of the World
in later systems. The point in the, hitherto im-
maculate disk, Space and Eternity in Pralara,
denotes the dawn . of differentiation. It is the
Point in the Mundane Egg, the Germ within it
which will become the Universe, the All, the
boundless, periodical KOSWOS.''
The 0 is the universal hierogIyIi of the sun in.the
center of the zodiac, the inanifestor and giver of light,
life and energy to its system. It also represents Jacob
in the midst of his 12 sons and Jesus in the midst of
hIs 12 disciples. Among the Egyptians the Dot or Sun
is Ra, and in the Book of the Dead is thus described:
"I am Ra at his first appearance. I am the great god,
self-reproduced; his Names together compose the cycle
of the gods. * * * 0 Ra, in thine Egg, who risest
up in thine orb, and shinest from thine Horizon." In
a later chapter Ra makes a prayer as follows: "I shine
forth oul of the Egg which is in the unseen (u..msni_
fested) world. * * * Let not mine hand be re-
pulsedbytheDivineCircleofthegreatgod. * * *
I am come to do the will of my heart, out of the abode
of Flame, which I extinguished when I came forth!"
- : IrL 'q» nil.
58 The Key to the Urnverse
This symbol also has its reflection or correspondence
in Natur. as the nucleus in the egg. The nucleus has
the same significance as the Dot and the sun, i. e., the
Source of Life to its system, for without the vitalizing,
creative power emanating from its nucleus no egg
could be fructified or developed. The Druids taught
this same mystery by their symbolic dance around what
later caine to be the May-pole. As we have said else-
where: "In the later symbolism the dance was per-
formed around the sacred oak and still later, if an
oak was not available, the masculine principle of fire
or the sun was symbolized by the upright May-pole,
while the feminine principle was indicated by the circle
drawn on the ground, the two having the same signifi-
cance, as a creative symbol, as the dot within the circle
or the lingam and the yoni, all of which later became
degraded into objects of phallic worship. * * *
Therefore, just as the Christian ceremonies of Easter
bring to our mind the great cosmic fact of the resur-
rection of the sun or the renewal of the life-force (The
Christ-force) of nature from the tomb of winter, as
well as the personal significance of the resurrection of
The Christ in each heart, so the bonfires and May-
poles, with their attendant dances and ceremonials, had
the same double significance and symbolized the same
grand truths to the early inhabitants of Ireland, Britain
and Gaul, i. e., that the masculine Principle of Fire had
again descended to fructify Mother Earth that she
might bring forth her increase." "The dot in the
center is always a sitlI circle in the old picture-writ-
ing, and its present name as the D 0- T names the
'Gift God.' In the Indian sign-language the interior
small circle names the Son of the Mother, or any 'De-
scendant,' which is its meaning today in the Celtic
ilphabet"T
See Tb. M.SUL, .1 4aarw. CuTtu. 280. 'TA. Jans Lu.vs, xl.
TlieSynsboloftheØ 59
"Philosophy, however, could never have fowid
its conception of a logical, universal and absolute
Deity, if it had had no Mathematical Point within
the Circle upon which to base its speculations. It
is oniy the manifested Point, lost to our senses
after its pregenetic appearance in the infinitude
and incognizability of the Circle, that makes a
reconciliation between Philosophy and Theology
possibleon condition that the latter should aban-
don its crude materialistic dogmas."'
We may think of our aura as a circle, but we should
think of our Higher Self as the Dot or God within
this circle; the manifested Source from whence ema-
nates the Light, Life and Love of our existence. And
only because of that Source within have we the power
to bring into manifestation and evolve the inchoate
forces which we find within the circle of our Being.
Hence only when we realize and manifest the power
of the indwelling creative Dot to bring forth and use,
to the limits of our circle of manifestation, all that is
contained therein, can we become the true I. Every
unit of life is the center or Dot of its own universe
(circle), has its own sphere of activity and influence
and rate of vibration, and is its own center of cosmic
energy; a microcosm, an individualized reflection in
time and space of the 1 Life of the o.
The Dot ma also be looked upon as the Spiritual
Star of Initiation which overshadows the Candidate
from the time when the spiritual Light "broke through
into vision" or was born in his consciousness. But we
become aware of it only when we look toward it, feel
its life-giving warmth and see its Light streaming
down upon us and forming the. straight and narrow
Path (number 1) that leadeth unto salvation (Mu-
tery).
Looked at from above, the Dot is seen to be the end
oftheaxisofasphere,oranaspectofnumberl. It
S. V... L 73.3.
60 The Key to the Universe
appears within the circle when the World Mother
breathes upon the waters of Chaos.
Let the Dot within the circle remind you that no
matter how dark and chaotic the circle of your life
may seem, you have within you the Dot of pure, white,
spiritual light, the Sun of your Soul whose rays can
unfold and illumine every condition in your life and
help you to manifest their highest possibilities, if you
will but open the door of your heart and let them in.
nt only as you fearlessly and determinedly and from
the Christ-consciousness within say, "Let there be
light," understanding all that this implies9 and all that
will result, can its force start the circle of darkness or
chaos in your spiritual life to revolving, and the Spirit
of Godthe white Dot or Dovemove on the troubled
waters of your life and evolve into the 1, and then on
through the rest of the decade back to oneness with the
o in the number 10. Do not be appalled at that which
the Light reveals within you, for the so-called things
of evil, those which are unredeemed, will 1st be stirred
up that they may come into the Light and be trans-
muted, spiritualized and redeemed. Remember the
divine Dot or Spiritual Sun within must shine if evo-
lution is to take place.
'See The Syw.bology of the Lgk*. Cbapter zxv, TA. Voic. of Is'e.
CHAPTER 6
TEE NUMBER. 1.
"0 descendant of Bharatal see wonders in
numbers, unseen before. Within my body, 0
Gudakesa I See today the whole universe,; indud.-
lug evely. thing movable and immovable1 all in
one." Bltagavad Gita, XL-
"The sacredness of numbers begins with the
great Firstthe ONE, and ends only- with the
nought or zerosymbol of the infinite and bound-
less circle which represents the universe. All the
intervening figures, in whatever combination, or
however multiplied, represent philosophical ideas,
from vague outlines down to a definite y-estab-
lished Scientific axiom, relating either to a moral
or a physical fact in nature.".
his Unveiled, Blavatsky, 11 4W
As we have said elewhere: "All even numbers are
mundane and pertain to the physical plan; while all
odd numbers are Divine. They contain something
which cannot be measured by the two forces, positive
and negative, always operitive on the physical planèi
Among the Pythagoreans odd numbers were connected
with the major deities, while even numbers were as-
signed to the inferior and terrestrial gods." In the
1's-King, an ancient Chinese book on symbolism refer-
ring to cosmogony and man and to the purposes of life,
the initial symbols used are Yang (male) and Yin (fe-
male). Yang is associated with heaven, the sun, light
and odd numbers, while Yin is associated with the
moon, the earth, darimess and even numbers.
Odd numbers are considered sacred because when
we attempt to divide them into equal parts they leave
'V. of I.. 160.
62 The Key to the Universe
the Monad or the 1 God standing unaffected between
them, thus: 3=1+1+1, 5=2+1+2, 7=3+1+3,
etc. Thus they reveal the Supreme Deity in the midst
of His works. Even numbers are those which can be
divided into 2 equal parts without revealing the 1 God
in their midst. When odd numbers are divided 1 part
will always be oddrepresenting the Divineand 1
evenrepresenting the manifestation of the Divine,
i. e., 7_3 (the Divine) plus 4 (the mundane). The
most potent odd numbers are composed of trinities,
each of which is odd, thus: 3=3X1, 9=3x3, 15=-
3x5, 21-3X7, 27-3X9, etc. While even numbers
can always be measured by the "pairs of opposites,"
they can also be separated (except 2 which is simply
2 unities) into 2 equal and 2 or more unequal parts,
thus, 10=5+5, also 1+9, 3+7, 2+8. Even numbers
whose equal divisions can be further divided into equal
parts are called "evenly even." For example 2, 4, 8,
16, 32, 64, etc. Those even numbers whose equal
divisions cannot be further divided into equal parts
are called "evenly odd." For example 6, 10, 14, 28,
56, etc.
"We now come to the consideration of the first
Sephira, or the Number One, the Monad of Pytha-
goras. In this number are the other nine hidden. It
is indivisible, it is also incapable of multiplication;
divide 1 by itself and it still remains 1, multiply 1 by
itself and it is still 1 and unchanged. Thus it is a fit-
ting representative of the great unchangeable Father
of all." 2
Number 1 is the symbol of Unity, Indivisibility, Indi-
viduality. It is that which is born from Spirit, (the
Dot), and is therefore Divine. "For God is Superla-
tive in his Unity, there is none equal unto him: what
number canst thou place before 1?" 8 is Primordial
Substance undifferentiated, also Cosmic Ideation.
'Xabb,,Joh Unveil,d Matber., 22.
Sejk.r Yttawak. L 7.
The Number 1 63
Since 1 stands by itself and is indivisible, it is consid-
ered no number, but represents perfection, harmony,
order, good and God. It is the only number that does
not have 1 aspect above or pertaining to the heavens
and 1 lower pertaining to the earth. It symbolizes the
Deity descending to earth in an undifferentiated state,
the 1 God, without attributes. It also symbolizes the
descent of the Light when, at the beginning of the
cycle of manifestation of this system, the 1st Day of
Creation, the godsthe 7 fold Elohimsaid: "Let
there be light,!' and the Dot within the circle sent forth
its Ray to manifest in matter. It is the descent of the
creative aspect of the 1 Life, the Christ-power, into
Chaos that Chaos might become Cosmos, evolve and
be redeemed.
Number 1 represents the principle of Unity which
underlies all numbers. By multiplication it creates all
others, but multiplied by itself to infinity it always re-
tains its unity
Since it is the 1st manifestation of the Unmanifested,
1 represents the unity of all forms of life in the 1 Life,
or the Brotherhood of Man and Nature. This is the
mathematical basis for what we have said e1sewhere
"All life comes from the One Life of the Absolute and
normally should evolve back to God in perfect purity
and harmony." "As all Souls are but differing expres-
sions of the One Life, each must bring back into the
One Life a special experience. Unity does not mean
an everlasting recurrence of one experience for all, but
all experiences in the One. As each different part of
the body has its own function, the experience of which
is subject to and is registered in the brainthe sum
total of the experiences of all organs and parts being
necessary to complete a Manso are all Soul-experi-
ences comprised in the One Life."' It is Unity but
not_uniformity.
- 'F..fL.225.
64 The Key to the Universe
The number 1 also symbolizes Adam Kadmon, the
1st man. Since man is the only erect animal, the only
1 whose spinal column is vertical instead of horizontal,
1 symbolizes man's power to stand erect, also his up-
rightness of both body and character. It also symbol-
izes the straight and narrow Path which the person-
ality must follow to reach the Divine or Christ-con-
sciousness. It is the line of spiritual aspiration which
must ascend from the heart of man to unite the human
with the Divine. It is the line whose continuation
unites the personality (the little i) with the Higher
Self (the Dot) to form the Real Self; the silver thread
which unites us with the Master; the unity of man
with God, the capital I which can stand alone. Jesus
expressed this same idea when He said: "I and my
Father are 1."
Script letters are symbols which have been so modi-
fied by modern ideas that they have little occult signifi-
cance, yet they do express the idea of dependence one
upon the other, a late development of tribal and corn-
niunity life. So, to merge the little i into the I we
must learn to stand alone, for the i could never become
the I until it had ceased to depend on others for its
meaning. As the personality learns to stand alone
and ascend the straight and narrow Path and merges
into the overshadowing Dot, the Dot spreads out as
sheltering wings above, fills out and enlarges and also
makes a firm foundation below, thus I. When the little
I has reached up to the Dot in the center of its orbit,
has become the I and is able to stand alone in the
presence of the Master, it must then "do the works of
its Father in Heaven" or continue the extension of the
Path in the higher realms and complete the diameter
of the circle thus:
000 Number 1
The Number .1 65
also symbolizes the Magic Wand with which the
magician performs his Great Work.
Among man's 7 principles 1 represents Atma, the
Ray from the Divine, 1 with theFather, through which
man becomes 1 with the AU..
Like the O,number 1 i a natural geometric fig-
tire. For, using our previous symbol of the sphere,
if any line of force, either from within or from with-
out, acts upon it, it will begin to revolve and thus
generate an axis, or the vertical line which bisects the
circle CD forming the figure 1. Therefore no other
figure could be the 1st of the numerical system, for 1
is the figure generated by the 1st manifestation of
motion in the Cosmos.- 1 is positive and masculine in
its characteristics, as it is the outgoing Ray of the
Divine proceeding from the negative or subjective into
the positive or objective life. This symbolism of the
number 1 is confirmed in nature. In animal life we
find in the developing egg a straight line, called "the
primitive strealc," as the 1st positive sign of the char-
acter of the future form and the forerunner of the
spinal column; the positive, supporting factor that
enables it to stand erect. In vegetable life we find
that out of the heart of the seed (its Dot Within the
encircling husk) the 1st manifestation of life causes a
sprout to shoot upward and a tap-root downward, as
the positive and negative expressions of the Dot. These
burst the shell or husk and form a straight vertical
line which bisects the seed and enables the plant to
stand alone as an independent manifesting individual
or 1.
Whenever your attention is called to the number 1,
let it remind you of the 1 God, the 1 Life; the oneness
of mankind or the Brotherhood of Man; the power of
Selfhood; of self-reliance, dignity, rulership; the
Wand of the Magician the Rod of Power; the power
66 The Key to the Universe
to bring forth the Self from the divine Dot within,
through the all-embracing power of the circle. Let it
remind you of the unity of nature, man and God; the
union of the human with the Divine through the fol.
lowing of the straight and narrow Path upward until
the personality is merged into the Father-in-heaven,
and you can say with Jesus, "I and my Father are 1."
GHAFER 7
TEE 1ST LETTER, Aleph (10.
"All Hebrew letters contain a number, a hiero-
glyph, a symbol, and a place. To know these in
their relation to each other, and to numbers, is
to hold in the hands the chart that will guide
us unerring!1 across the ocean of ignorance into
the 'Thirty-Two Paths of Wisdom?
Numbers and Letters, Peek 79.
"From the Spirit He produced Mr, and found
in it twenty-two sounds * * the letters; three
are mothers, seven are double, and twelve are
simple; but the Spirit is first and above these."
Sepher letsirak, å, 10.
'The Hebrew alphabet is composed of 22 letters, of
which 3 are "Mother Letters," 7 are double and 12 arc
simple letters. The 3 "mother letters" are associated
with the 3 elements, air, fire and water. These ele-
ments are manifestations of the Divine Trinity from
which all things are brought forth in the 3 worlds.
The 7 double letters are associated with the 7 sacred
planets and the 7 fold power of the Elohim through
which the Mother Trinity must couceive. They are
double because each planet has its dual aspects, positive
and. negative, favorable and unfavorable, benefic and
malific. And just as the astrological aspects of these
planets are modified by the influences of other planets,
so the double letters have a bard and soft sound ac-
cording to the influence of the other letters in the
words in which they appear. They are also connected
with certain other powers described elsewhere.1 The
12 simple letters are associated with the 12 signs of
the zodiac, the 12 months in the year and the 12 parts
$ V. .1 1.. spler alL
68 The Key to the Universe
of the human body. The zodiac being the circle of
manifestation or the limit of the field of operation of
our system, and its circumference having 12 points of
contact through which the force of the sun is trans-
mitted to earth, the 12 signs may be compared to a
gigantic switch-board through which the creative
powercorresponding to that generated by the 3
mothers and manipulated by the 7 doubles through the
12 slinplesis transmitted to earth, under the guid-
ance of the 7 Planetary Deities. According to this
conception the 12 simple letters may be looked upon
as a perfect distributing apparatus for transmitting the
messages of the Spiritual Sun. But according as these
messages are interpreted by man, the receiver, are they
true, helpful and uplifting or false, misleading and
depressing. But in considering the letters and their
associations we must not fall into the error of thinking
that the letters are either the elements, the planets or
the zodiacal signs with which they are connected. The
letters simply respond to the vibrations from those
forces to which they are related and which they sym-
bolize. Nevertheless, the letters, either written or
spoken, awaken certain potencies and are avenues
through which certain cosmic forces operate in the
worlds of manifestation.
The 1st letter of the Hebrew alphabet is Aleph (),
corresponding to our letter A, and its numerical value
is 1. Like number 1 it expresses the outbreathing of
the Divine or as the Kabalah expresses it, "soft breath-
ing." Aleph is the 1st of the mother letters out of
which all the others are produced. Also out of soft
breathing are all the sounds expressed by the 22 letters
produced. "But their (the Druids) name for 'A.'
which by itself names a Mountain, is AIL-M, saying
Mountain Parent. The same letter is the whole name
of the vaim called P-AILM. or 'The A.' This one
The 1st Letter, 4kph 69
Ietter.also names the Celtic 'Man' and makes our word
FIR-S-T?"
Aleph symbolizes the Breath of Life as manifested
in man, for God "breathed into his nostrils the breath
of life, and- man became a living soul." Just as the
primitive streak in the embryo forms the spinal column
and makes the upright man, so must the forces whose
centers lie within the spinal -column be awakened, de-
veloped and blended ere man can grasp his Rod- of
Power and become The Christ-man. The physical
agent through which this development is accomplished
is 'the brtath, properly directed and controlled. Ac-
cording to Eliphas Levi: "Aleph indicates the balance
of universal equilibrium, the division of the day and
the night, the reign of the sun and that of the moon,
the approaching struggle between Cain and Abel It
is related to the angel of Mercury, represented in the
Tarot by tIle Bateleur."
The astrologIcal symbol corresponding to Aleph is
the ox, the sign Taurus in the zodiac. Some claim to
find a satisfactory explanation of the origin of this
letter in the head of the ox, his horns forming an
inverted A, the top of his head supplying the cross-
bar, thus V. But this reverses the symbol. It is not
more fanciful however to regard the lungs, through
which the Breath of Life functions, as forming a rough
letter A, with the arching diaphragm as the cross-bar.
But we will look for a deeper similarity, for the char-
acteristic of the letter is more an inner quality than
an outer appearance.
The sign Taurus is ruled by Venus and is the 1st
feminine sign, as Aleph is theist mother letter. Tan-
ms is the accepted symbol of terrestrial and physical
generation. The full significance of the correspon-
dence, hoeer, is that the brightest star of the con--
stellation, Aldebaran, situated in the eye of Taurus,
'Ti* J.v,is L.u.rs,. vi.
U..i-"' Ldteii of 'b' UvL
70 The Key to the Universe
together with the constellation of the Pleiades in the
neck of Taurus, in ancient Hindu chronology were the
determiners used for finding the beginning of our
present Iron Age or Kali Yuga. This is the cycle of
man's most dense physical expression and greatest
spiritual darkness, a period during which he is learn-
ing the bitterest lessons of terrestrial generation,
brought about by his misuse of his creative powers.
The Pleiades, the constellation in the neck of Tau-
rus, is regarded
"in the Kabbalak and Eastern Esotericism, as the
sidereal septenate born from the first manifested
side of the upper triangle, the concealed A. This
manifested side is Taurus, the symbol of One
(the figure 1), or the first letter of the Hebrew
alphabet, Aleph () 'bull' or 'ox', whose syn-
thesis is Ten (10), or Yod ( ',),the perfect letter
and number. The Pleiades (Alcyone especially),
are thus considered, even in Astronomy, as the
central point around which our sutwerse of fixed
stars revolves, the focus from which, and into
which, the Divine Breath, Motion, works inces-
santly during the Manvantara."
Since Aleph is the 1 which finds its completion in
Yod, the 10, it corresponds to the Alpha of the Greek
alphabet which is completed by the letter Omega.
hence, Chronus, the god Time, the terrestrial expres-
sion of the 1, who says: "I am Alpha and Omega, the
beginning and the end, the first and the last" (I am
I and 10), is but another expression of the outbreath-
ing of the Breath of Brahm, the Absolute, apparently
swallowed up in matter, yet bringing forth all things
upon the terrestrial plane.
As a hieroglyph, that is, the letter considered as a
sign or symbol, Aleph represents man as a collective
unit, the ruler of the earth, "the sign of Power and
Stability." It carries the idea of man both as the mi-
S. P.. II. 91.3.
The lit Commandment 71
crocosrnandastheunityOfthe1Ljfe,syntjcjzedj
man through the Breath of Life
TUE lsr coMMANDMENT.
9 am the Lord thy God, which have brought
thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house
of bondage. Thou shalt hare no other gods
before air."
Esodu.r, xx, 2-3.
The significance of each Cofnm2ndment is revealed
by its number and is emphasized by the order in which
it is given. Thus, in the 1st Commandmeit we find
that number 1, the 1 Life and the 1 God, is expressed
in the words "I am the Lord thy God." As we have
said elsewhere: "The I is the only symbol in the alpha-
bet. that stands for both Deitythe straight vertical
line symbolizing Spirit descending into matterand
for personality." It represents the Divine Light sent
down into the darkness of Chaos; the straight and
narrow Path by which alone the Pilgrim can emerge
from the land of Egypt or the state of spiritual dark-
ness wherein he is in bondage to King Desire. The
"I AM" is also the Christ-force, the quickening Ray,
by whose Illumination the bonds of ignorance are
broken and the Soul is led into the Promised Land of
spiritual consciousness. Therefore, we may read the
1st Commandment thus: I, or number 1, am the Law
(Lord) of thy godhood, which bath brought thee-
cosmidy, the Chaos of unredeemed substances and
forces left over from a previous period of manifesta-
tion; individually, the Soul that is responding to the
Divine Light and treading the straight and narrow
Pathout of the darkness of inertia and resistance to
the Divine. And I will ultimately lead thee out of the
house of flesh and the bondage of limitation into the
fulness of spiritual consciousness.
'V. .1 I.. 127.
72 The Key to the Universe
Since i is the 1st of the series of numerals and the
1 God is the 1st manifestation of the Divine, we can
have nothing before Him. Every god which man cre-
ates and tries to place before the 1. God must be swal-
lowed up in the Q of that Chaos which must be re
deemed in the next great Day-period of evolution. For
nothing but Q (naught) can stand before the 1. This
Commandment means then that we are to recognize
this 1 God above all things and seek to become 1 with
Him; that we are to make the attainment of that one-
ness the chief and underlying aim of our lives, placing
nothing before that 1 great goal; that we are to recog-
nize the unity of all in the I God and worship Him "in
spirit and in truth" (unity). "It is not what your
hands are doing, but what your heart is wars/n ping
that determines your growth. If you make business
or household cares your God, you will, of necessity,
retard your more rapid spiritual advance; for as long
as you are worshiping a false God before the 1 God
your spiritual evolution is being retarded."
' V. of 1.. 33.
THE 1sT TAROT CARD
TEE 3tGGLEE
ThE MAGICIAN
It
III BATEIÆUP
Papiii MEDIEVAL Papui
(m.ah 21!
EGYPTIAN
SmWi
MODERN
CHAPTER 8
ThE lsr TAROT CARD, The Juggler.
"A hieroglyphic and numeral alphabet, express-
ing by characters and numbers a series of uni-
venal and absolute ideas."
Trwscendental Magi4 Uyi, 368.
The Tarot is the most ancient of books, a collection
of cards embodying the Secret Doctrine of the ages,
almost every nation having its version or variation of
this synthetic exposition of the Ancient Wisdom. The
Egyptian version is called The Book of Hermes, the
Hebrew The Book of Adam, while the version which
we shall interpret is the 1 best known to the Western
world, the Bohemian Tarot, or "Bible of the Gypsies."
This Gypsy Bible is made up of a deck of cards upon
which the Ancient Wisdom is expressed in symbols, but
like all symbols that are true and basicj they reveal
their meaning only to those who are capable of receiv-
ing it. In many respects it is the key which will unlock
the mystical doctrines and philosophies of the Old
World, and is called tle Arcana of the Clavicles of
Solomon. It is symbokzed by a key whose head is a
nng composed of a circle containing the 4 Cardinal
Signs, the Bull, the Lion, the Eagle and the Angel;
its trunk or body bearing the 22 characters, and having
the 3 degrees of the triad for its wards. It is some-
times called "The Key of things kept secret from the
Foundation."
The word Tarot may be written in the form of a
crouo -LandreadROTA,awheeLllnthispre..
a
l5 p.e 341.
76 The Keý to the Universe
sentation it is the wheel of Ezekiel. It is also formed by
Constantine's monogram of Christthe Latin P or R
found between the Alpha and Omegaengraved upon
the cross which Constantine saw in his vision,
The 1st card of the Tarot, corresponding to the letter
A, is called the Juggler. Occupying the central position
in the picture stands a young man with a rude wooden
table in front of him upon which are placed 3 of
the symbols which distinguish the 4 suits of Tarot
cards, i. e., Cup, Sword, Pentacles, while the 4th, the
Scepter, is in his left hand. Corresponding to and
derived from these symbols, the signs denoting the suits
of the modem playing cards are respectively hearts,
spades, diamonds and clubs. On his head is a hat
which forms the Symbol of Life and evolution .
As a sign of his dominion over the earth and her in-
crease he stands firmly upon the ground which is bring-
ing forth vegetation. In his left hand, which is raised
toward heaven, he carries the Scepter, the magic wand,
symbolizing that only as man draws his power from on
high can he become the Master over the forces within
himself and nature. His right hand bent towards the
earth is a symbol of his power to accomplish upon the
physical plane. The position of his hands symbolizes
man's position in evolution. In man, The Christ-prin-
ciple, the "Breath of Life," has become more than the
passive Urge of Evolution towards perfection, for man
as here represented is the active principle, or the co-
worker with evolution. The 4 mystic symbols represent
the powers innate in man, but which he must develop
and use. The rude table symbolizes the plain, unpre-
tentious and uncultured character of physical man, who
nevertheless has given to him the possibilities of future
greatness. These are the portion of goods given to the
The 1st Tarot Card, The Juggler 77
prodigal Son (man) by his Father-in-heaven, by the
right use and understanding of which he must accom-
plish his.Great Work.
The powers conlained in the 4 symbolsthe Cup,
the Sword, the Wand or Scepter and the Pentacle, are
summed up by Ehiphas Levi in the following words:
"To attain the sanctum regnum, in other words, the
knowledge and powerof the magi, there are four indis-
pensable conditionsan intelligence illnmin2ted by
study, an intrepidity which nothing can check, a will
which nothing can break, and a discretion which noth-
ing can interrupt and nothing intoxicate. To Know, To
Dare, To Will, To Keep Silencesuch are the four
words of the Magus, inscribed upon the four symbol-
ical forms of the sphinx."
These 4 words correspond to the 4 mystic symbols in
our modern playing cards. 1st the Cup (To Know),
which. corresponds to Hearts. The Cup is the
container into which is poured all life's expe-
riences and from which the Soul drinks either
the Wine of the Spirit, or the dregs of bitter-
ness and sorrow. The heart suit in modern play-
ing cards has the same symbology. This is the
Cup given by The Christ to His disciples which He
blessed, saying: "Drink ye all of it; for this is my
blood" (life-force). But it is man himself who can
make it "The cup of blessing which we bless," the
drinking from which in love, is indeed the true Com-
munion with The Christ. Or in man's hands it may
become like the Cup in the hands of the Woman in
Scarlet spoken of in Revelation' "Having a golden
cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of
her fornication." Equally is it true that "whosoever shall
* * * drink of this cup of the Lord (the heart or esoteric
doctrine of the law), unworthily, shall be guilty of the
body and blood of the Lord." The same symbology
'DO*ICSdaSd M.gic. LevI. 30. aptar xvii. 4.
78 The Key to the Universe
is expressed by the Chalice or the Cup used in the
Eucharist, also by the Holy Grail, the vision of which
is vouchsafed only to the pure in the heart.
This is beautifully expressed in Tennyson's poem,
"Sir Galahad"; for if we would find the Holy Grail
we too must be, "A maiden Knightto me is given
such hope, I know not fear." Then will we hear in
all nature the voice of the angelic hosts, as did he.
"Then move the trees, the copses nod,
Wings flutter, voices hover clear;
'0 just and faithful Knight of God!
Ride on! the prize is near' * * *
ôdlarmed I ride, whate'er betide,
Until I find the Holy Grail."
For the qi.iest of the Holy Grail is man's most impor-
tant task on earth.
The Sword (To Dare) corresponds in our modern
playing cards to Spades, and symbolizes primarily the
"Sword of the Spirit" penetrating matter and inform-
ing it; secondarily it symbolizes the courage which
every true man must have to face himself and cut from
the personality every thing that hinders his advance;
to fight the foes within and without, or the power
needed to "fight the good fight"; the attitude of the
True Knight, who dares to face the foe because his
heart is true and his sword is keen and strong. Ar
Sir Galahad, after his vision of the Holy Grail, is
made to say: "My strength is like the strength of
ten, because my heart is pure." Hence he is un-
daunted though his way lead through ignorance,
superstition, persecution and crucifixion. The Sword
is also the cross on which The Christ is cruci
fled until he has vanquished his last enemy, death.
Truly the modern playing cards have turned the
Swords, if not into plow shares, at least into spades.
The 1st Tarot Card, Tki Juggler 79
Yet the symbology is similar, for with the spade we
tabor to make the earth give forth her increase; with
it we overcome the inertia of matter and by the might
of man's industry conquer physical conditions. But
perverted, the Sword becomes the instrument which
digs and undermines man's citadel.
The Wand or Scepter (To Do), corresponding in
modern playing cards to Qubs, is a conventionalized
figure, embracing the idea of power. It is 1st the Wand
of the Magician, the power placed in man's hands to
accomplish through WilL It is also the Staff of Wis-
dom upon which man can lean as he climbs the difficult
Path of Spiritual Attainment; the Staff or 1 Life given
him by his Divine Self; that which he can- trust and
lean upon. It is also the Shepherd's Crock which not
only helps him to climb the steep heights, but also by
using the crook at its end he can lift and assist the
lambs over the dangerous places, i.e., by the use of
this Staff man can help those weaker than himself and
thus obey the mandate: "feed my lambs." The same
idea is represented by the Bishop's Crozier or Pastoral
Stiff. This is an emblem of high authority, dignity
and power carried upon great occasions by Bishops and
Archbishops, but only after special sanction from the
Pope, as it is not aDigrnty belonging to the office of
Bishop itselL In giving a pontifical blessing the
Bishop holds the Crozier erect in his left hand, with
the crook pointing toward the penitent, leaving the
right hand free to touch the head of the kneeling peni-
tent òr to bless a congregation. This posture is but
a variation of that assumed by the Juggler with his
Wand.
The Crozier carried by the Armenian Bishops is
formed by 2 intertwined serpents whose combined
heads form the crock, thus connecting it with the
Caduceus of Hermes, 1 of the most ancient and mys-
80 The Key to the Universe
tical of symbols. Among the Bishops of the Greek,
Coptic and Armenian churches a veil is thrown over
the Crozier and entwined in the crook, thus symbolizing
the fact that in this material age the full meaning of the
Crazier is veiled from the multitude. Just as in our
present day playing cards the Wand has become the
Club, so has this symbol of power been degraded until
we find it in the shillalah of the Irishman, the walking-
stick of the Englishman, and even the billy of the
policeman, as well as in the baton of the musical direc-
toralways, however, the symbol of authority and
power of some sort. Instead of ruling through the
Staff of Divine Authority (Wisdom), it has come to
mean ruling through personal will or force.
The Pentacles (To Keep Silent), correspond in
modern playing cards to Diamonds. In the Tarot
pentacles are round discs supposed to be talismans, an
idea hard to fully understand today but very common
in former ages. By their shape they symbolize cycles.
They represent the 0 in which all things can manifest;
in other words man's field of operation; a talisman for
good if rightly used, or for evil if abused. They repre.
sent man's possibilities. The meaning, however, that
has crystallized around the Pentacles, as well as around
the Diamond, is that of money or worldly wealth. This
is quite natural in an age when the enlightened mind
can conceive of no good for man higher than that repre-
sented by worldly wealth.
The Pentacles also represent in a religious sense the
"Host," or the bread which is given by The Christ to
His disciples when He says, "Take eat, this is my body
which is given for you." Hence they represent man's
field of operation in which he must build up The Christ
or Spiritual Body in himself and in humanity. This
growth can only take place in the silent communion
within the Sanctuary of his own heart, or the Closet
CHAPTER 9
THE NUMBER 2.
"How is number 2 to be found? B, rdection
of itself. For though 0 be incapable of definition,
I is definable. And the effect of a definition is
to form an Eidolon, duplicate or image, of the
thing defined. Thus, then, we obtain a duad
composed of I and its reflection. Now also we
have the commencement of a vibration estab-
lished, for the number 1 vibrates alternately
from changelessness to definition and back to
changelessness again."
The Kobbalah Unveiled, Matbers, 23.
"But Unity alone cannot produce anything
except by opposing itself to itself thus-f-. From
this proceeds duality, the principle of opposition
represented by 2, the passive principle pre-
eminent"
The Tarot, Papus, 30.
The number 2 is the symbol of Duality. It is the
Number of Differentiation, the "fall into matter." It
is the Number of Separation, and by the Pythagorians
was called audacity because it was the 1st to separate
from the Divine Unity. It is the Number of Polarity;
the Mother-principle separates from the Father and
becomes mundane; the unity of the 1 is broken up into
its positive and negative aspects, the upper pole being
Spirit and the lower matter. From another aspect,
when the Divine 1 descends into the sphere of physical
manifestation it is separated into its positive and neg-
ative expressions, Spirit and Matter, male and female,
etc., hence all forces show polarity* thus:
The recent experiments of Dr. Albert Abrams have proved that
not only do all forces and forms of life show polarity, but all object,
as well. It has been demonstrated in our presence that a stick of wood,
for instance, radiates positive energy at one end and negative at the
other, thus conStruing the above statement.
The Number
Many philosophers teach a mystical relationship
between numbers and marriage. In fact such teach-
ings will be found scattered through almost every
work on numbers and by such authorities as Pythag-
oras, Plato, Nicomachus, Aristotle, etc. For the
return to oneness or Unity (God) in the higher
cycle (10), through the blending of its positive
and negative aspects, makes the perfect union of man
nd woman the ideal state. The solution of the sex-
problem is therefore the great lesson for the humanity
of this planet.1 This is symbolized by the Egyptian
hieroglyph for number 2, which is formed by 2 ser-
pents encircling a globe or egg. Another symbol is
a tree with a serpent twined around it or wisdom
planted in the earth entwined by the Spirit, or the
spiral evolution of the Soul through following the 1
Number 2 is, therefore, the Number of Contrasts
and the "pairs of opposites," good and evil, truth
and error, day and night, heat and cold, health and sick-
ness, pleasure and pain, joy and sorrow, male and
female, etc., and because of this it is called by some "the
'Sce V. .f I_ 257.
84 The Key to the Universe
beginning of evil." In nature the 1st differentiation of
the upright sprout (the 1), is the 2 leaves which appear
simultaneously when it emerges above the ground.* In
fact, all manifestations on the physical plane fall under
this Law of Duality, for it is the inexorable law of
physical manifestation.
"The ancient form-name of Gemini is two 'I' forms
joined, as 'II,' which in the numerals means Two * * *
our T-W-IN is T-UU-IN or 'Deity 2 Fire Island' and
has the meaning as all words for T-UU-O."3
According to the Kabalah number 2 is the Second
Sephiroth called Chokma, Wisdom, and is produced by
number 1 casting its reflection into the sphere of mani-
festation, thus agreeing with our statement that all
manifestations on the physical plane are necessarily
dual.
As 1 symbolizes the 1st Adam, so 2 symbolizes
Adam and Eve, man and woman; sex or the masculine
and feminine aspects of the Great Creative Force mani-
festing in human form; for form can result only from
the interaction of the positive and negative poles. Thus
we have a mathematical basis for our statement that
after the separation of the sexes each of the 2 Rays
maintains its sex polarity throughout all its incarna-
tions.8 This is also the geometrical basis for our teach-
ing that as long as humanity manifests in masculine
and feminine bodies, the highest ideal and the nearest
approach to unity which the sexes can attain is the
perfect blending of the 2 in a true marriage of the
Soul, not mere union of the sexes. This Soul-mar-
riage truly is "made is heaven" or in the realms of the
Spirit, and can be brought about only by pure love.
But crc such a divine marriage can be consummated
on all planes it must be confirmed on earth according
to the legal requirements of the country in which the
ones so united dwell. For marriage is far more than
In the eg the Srst differentation of the primitive layer of the
erminaI disc Ia into two, the ectoderni and the endoderm, epiblast and
ypoblazt.
2 Jarv, Lett.va. lv. $ V. el I.. 160.
TheNumber2 85
merely a convenient and personal arrangement between
the man and woman concerned. It is the foundation,
not only of society and all human relations, but of the
higher spiritual life as well. Hence no couple is truly
married who do not in some measure recognize that
in the solemnization of their physical union they are
fulfilling a divine mandate, i.e., the reunion of the 2
expressions of the 1 Soul. Any couple looking upon
marriage in this light would naturally recognize their
duty to the community as well as themselves, hence
would gladly comply with the laws of the community
of which they were a part. The laws of the country
neither make nor mar the true - Soul-marriage, yet
obedience to the -laws of the country which protects
their marriage rights is the way to fulfill their obliga-
tions to that country. Since to "Do the duty that lies
nearest" is the surest way to freedom, to deny or refuse
to fulfill marital duties when brought to us by the Great
Law is to close a most important avenue to higher
attainment. In other words, the perfect family life is
man's highest state of existence while manifesting on
the physical plane in separated sexes. And he will not
transcend that state until he has thoroughly learned all
its lessons.
2 is the Binary, the symbol of all that is double,
also all that is false, in the sense of being transitory
and not eternal, or opposed to the 1 Reality. It is the
Number of Matter whose inertia opposes the rnanifes-
tation of the Spirit. As the vertical line represents the
descent of Spirit, so the horizontal line represents
matter, thus forming the cross upon which the Divine
is crucified in its efforts to express in the physical
world. The cross is, therefore, a cosmic symbol and
should not be identified exclusively with any 1 incar-
nation of the Divine in human form.
86 The Key to the Universe
Geometrically, the 2 is generated by the equator
bisecting the axis of the circle midway between its
the ratio between the diagonal and any side of a square,
but since that ratio (l.4142135-co) is incapable of exact
expression it leads to infinity co. This indicates
that the pairs of opposites cannot be balanced upon the
physical plane without calling into play an Infinite
factor, a force from the higher, super-physical realms.
It also indicates that infinite progression, through the
pairs of opposites, is the divine Law of Manifestation
in duality.
As 1 is considered positive and masculine, so 2 is
considered as negative, receptive and feminine in its
characteristics. 2 manifests in all realms of nature
through the pairs of opposites. Number 2 is sacred to
all female deities, such as Rhea, Isis, Vishnu, the Virgin
Mary, etc., as it represents the Mother-force separated
from the Father and ever seeking reunion that it may
bring forth. It represents all the productive forces
in nature, including nature-sounds, voice and speech;
for it is through sound that creation is brought forth.
"For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and
it stood fast."4 "The words that I speak unto you,
they are spirit, and they are life."5 The sounds of
nature, especially the songs of birds, are a great factor
in calling forth the leaf-buds of early spring, and later
the flower-buds.
Among man's Principles 2 represents Buddhi.'
When you contemplate the figure 2, let it remind
you that while matter, through its inertia, opposes
Spirit, still it is necessary to enable Spirit to express
on all planes. By harmonizing the pairs of opposites
'P:,thn., XXXIII, 9. See Chapter 28 heroIn.
'Ss. i.h0. i. 63.
7,
poles, thus The 2 is
. square root of ()
$
TheNunzbers 87
as they express in matter, and by learning the lessons
they can teach, you will be progressing toward the
Infinite Balance of the heaven world; will be spirit.
ualizing matter and making possible the manifestation
of the Infinite and Divine on earth. Matter is, there-
fore, not to be either denied or despised, but purified,
spiritualized and redeemed.
Let 2 also remind you of the inevitable crucifixion
which must ensue when you endeavor to oppose the
manifestation of the Divine within you; when you
refuse to live The Christ-life. 'Also let it remind you
that the great problem of hmnanity on this globe is the
perfect blending and mastery of the positive and neg-
ative expressions of the Great Creative Force through
its pairs of opposites, the sexes. And, lastly, let it
remind you of the essential purity and sacredness of
sex, the 2 expressions of the Divine in humanity.
THE KEY TO THE UNiVERSAL LAW OF SEX.
"And the Lord said, it is not good that the
man should be alone; I will make him an help
- meet for him."
Genesis, ii, l&
The 1 great and fundamental Law back of the differ-
entiation of the 1 Life into the 2 opposite sexes is
primarily the fact that the Great Law, as we have
shown, must have its 2 poles, positive and neg-
ative, within the circle. These 2 expressions are
forever blended into each other, or the serpent is
forever swallowing its tail, 1. e., the life-force goes
round and round, making a great egg in which both
currents are unmanifested and latent.
If we consider the egg as our symbol we see that
the moment the egg is laid or expressed on the phys-
ical plane and these 2 poles begin to manifest, the result
is an individualized living entity. And when we follow
this symbol into the higher realms we see that within
88 The Key to the Universe
the unmanifested egg or 0 the 1 Life is both Father
and Mother. Hence, since to manifest on earth the 2
poles must be separated, they are expressed below as
masculine and feminine, both born of the I Life, both
a part of the one 0 which is able to experience and
manifest only when separated into masculine and fem-
inine. We have seen that within the circle the forces
from the 2 poles are forever flowing round and
round, but undifferentiated, therefore unable to
express on the physical plane because they are Q,
naught. Yet on earth ih the separated sexes they must
find the same divine union, must blend and interchange
the life-forces as perfectly and as harlm)niously in the
2 separated sexes as they did in the circle; that is, do
the will of God on earth as they did, and as they still
are doing, in heaven; for every man or woman is a
separated expression from 1 pole of an unmanifested
Divine Q in which the 2 forces are forever circling
round and round with their opposites in perfect har-
mony and bliss. Each such circle makes a radiant
Sun of Lighteach having its own place and its own
workwhich circles around the Central Sun of the
Universe or around the Throne of God.
'Man is the masculine Ray or the expression on earth
of the Divine Father-force, that aspect of the Divine
which is ever fructifying, ever creating and expressing
itself in forms. It is that divine potency designated in
the Apostles' Creed as, "God the Father Almighty,
maker of Heaven and earth, and of all things visible
and invisible." Hence, since man expresses this
Father-ray he is the positive pole and his function in
life is creativeness. Therefore the foundation of all
his love and his seeking for union with God expresses
itself in the desire to fructify and create. Woman, on
the other hand, is the expression of the divine Mother-
force, that which is called the "Holy Ghost," the "Coin-
The Key to the Universal Law of Sex 89
forter'Lin Egyptian symbology, Isis the Great Mother,
and in Hindu philosophy Vishnu the preserver. Hence
the foundation of all woman's love is divine Mother-
hood. The expression of Mother-love is woman's near-
est approach to the divine state, therefore, the more a
woman loves, even her husband, the more the element
of mothering enters into it. Even though she have no
children she will mother all she loves, for this is the
fundamental well-spring of her very existence as a
separated sex. For this reason we often find that a
woman can live in happiness and express her love in
caresses, cherishing and in motherly solicitude, but a
man has his equally strong and divine love built upon
the great Father-force of creativeness, hence the more
true, sincere and God-like man grows, the higher,
purer and more intense will be his desire to fructify
and create on all planes. If these 2 great and funda-
mental laws of the opposite poles of sex-life were better
understood there would not only be less marital unhap-
piness, but the Race as a whole would evolve much
more quickly back to its Edenic oneness. The great
lesson for each to learn is, that the functions of sex
are Divine and are not a gift given to man and woman
as evolved animal organisms merely for the purpose
of procreation and peopling the earth, but are innate
God-qualities, the very essence of their divine oneness
which they as immortal Souls must manifest through
their animal bodies. This is necessary as a means of
informing, purifying and evolving those animal bodies
to a state of perfection in which the complete God-
consciousness can flow unimpeded from 1 to the other,
and they can be as truly 1 on earth in 2 separated bodies
as they were in the one 0 yet with all the experience
gained from the long journey into the far country of
embodiment, and the strength and power of son-hood
which has made them truly "as one of us," the ElÓhlm.
CHAPTER 10
TBZ 2ND LETTER, Beth (i).
"He produced Beth, and referred it to Wisdom;
He crowned it, combined and formed with it the
Moon in the universe, the first day of the week,
and the right eye of man]'
Sspher Yetzirah, 22.
The 2nd Hebrew letter is Beth ( s.), 1 of the 7
double letters, corresponding to our letter B. Hiero-
glyhically it stands for the month of man and is
referred to Wisdom, but since out of the "mouth of
man" proceedeth both Wisdom and Folly this letter
is called double. Its radical meaning is a "house" or
"birth-place" and it is used with this meaning through-
out the Bible. For instance, Beth-el is the "house of
God"; Eliza-beth the "house of Eliza"; Beth-tehem the
"house of bread"; Bal-beth the "house or temple of the
sun," etc. Its symbolic meaning, derived from the
house as a birth place, is both the Womb of Nature
and of woman, from which all comes forth. From this
meaning we deduce the idea of a sanctuary or inner
shrine or that secret place where we can retire without
fear of disturbance, the closet into which we can go
and having shut the door pray to our Father in secret.
Out of this sanctuary come forth the true character-
istics which make us what we are, also from it issues
the inspiration and instruction given us from the Divine
in the Silence. Hence Beth expresses everything that
emanates from this mysterious retreat.
"B, called BE-I-T, pictures and names the Bee or Bi
and means BEing, Existence; names LIFE, BEe, Bios
The znd Letter, Bali 91
* * The colonial priests of a remote time sent a
present from Delphi to England, being a miniature
Temple in the form of a Hive, carved out of Beeswax.
This was a primal picture, which in the double mean-
ings, and for the wonderment of the ignorant, was
always the House of the god Be, and ni&ing the
Hebrew word for the original 'House of God' as
BE-TH, which says 'B-Deity', and is also their alpha-
betic name of their letter 'B', showing that our 'B' is
named in this 'BETH' * * * The universal picture-
language Bow, which Egyptian deities carry to ident-
ify themselves, is made as an elongated 'B', and
names the Be priesthood that was the shooter of the
'A' light or Arrow, the Celtic 'S-A-I-S'."1
Just as man, as the active Father-principle, is repre-
sented by Aleph, so in Beth we find the inner, passive
or feminine Principle, the Mother-force, through
which his characteristics are brought forth. While
both man and woman express both Aleph and Beth,
man is more Aleph than Beth and woman is more Beth
than Aleph. The 3 primal meanings of Beththe
house, the mouth and the wombare therefore but
different expressions of the idea of bringing faith
through the Mother-principle; for out of the house or
inner sanctuary of the heart is brought forth man's
spiritual nature; out of the womb is brought forth man's
physical body, and out of the mouth man himself brings
forth his ideas or thought creations. "For of the abund-
ance of the heart his mouth speaketh."2
"The Beth represents hieroglyphically the heaven and
the earth. It also represents unity made manifest in
apace and stability, and life made manifest by move-
ment. It represents the Spirit of God born upon the
waters and the fecundation of matter by Spirit."
$ Tk. Z.rvi, L.st.ra L
'Si. lob. vi. 45.
Uiiobiù.J Lgur, of lIjbu f.M. -
92 The Key to the Universe
TUE 2ND COMMANDMENT.
"Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven
image, or any likeness of any thing that is in the
heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or
that is in the water under the earth. Thou shalt
not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them."
Ezodu,r, xx, 4.
Since number 2 is the symbol of Duality and marks
the 1st step in the differentiation of the 1, nothing can
manifest objectively upon the mundane plane without
duality. That which appears upon the lower planes
is but the shadow of the unseen Reality. Hence the
2nd Commandment deals with the ever present danger
into which unenuightened man is only too apt to fall,
namely, mistaking the shadow for the Reality. There-
fore the Commandments begin with a warning against
mistaking the reflection for the Substance; against
making an idol out of material things and worshiping
it. Note that the text says, "Thou shalt not make unto
thee." Others may carve statues or images for us,
but no 1 but ourselves can make us create an idol out
of the shadow. The Commandment is not to be taken
in the literal sense that we should never carve an image
or symbol of any holy ideal, principle or thing, a custom
common in the Christian churches today. For when
properly used such images or symbols serve to recall
and impress more vividly upon the mind the unseen
Reality for which they stand. They also have a mys-
tical power in themselves. The Commandment means
far more. It deals with all that number 2 expresses.
The overshadowing God-consciousness, fully compre-
hending the law of the descent of the Light into Chaos,
and realizing all the pitfalls and mistakes into which
man was likely to fall during his long pilgrimage, gave
him at the outset a solemn warning against building
up, through the creative power of his newly acquired
self-conscious thought earthly images of the Divine,
Th 2nd- Commandment 93
and through the ignorance and darkness of the land
in which he toiled, falling down to worship them. Even
today many savage tribes have created thought-form-
elementals which have become tribal gods, many of
which must be propitiated by offerings of blood. Such
worship of the false -would lead man age after age
farther and farther from the worship of the Spiritual
Light, which was to lead him out of the darkness of
Egypt if he would but worship the True instead of
an image of his own creation. The duality of shadow
and Substance is but a passing manifestation belonging
to this Day-period and will cease to exist when the
shadow has been indrawn into the Reality.
Since all God's creations in heaven above, in the
earth beneath and in the waters under the earth, are
images of divine and immutable Realities, if we hold
fast to this thought and through the image seek to
come .into harmony with its Reality, we will find our
Path of Attainment a joyous and fascinating journey
through a wonderful country full of objects, each of
which represents a marvelous God-mystery, instead of
a wearisome climb up a rocky pathway through chilling
darkness, dull misery, suffering- and despair. The
words, "The waters under the earth" give the key to
the understanding of the Commandment Waters,
tossed by every wind that blows, symbolize the chang-
lug and unstable conditions of earthly manifestation.
They are the unstable and varying conditions which, in
the sense of back of, are underneath every earth con-
dition.
"I the Lorl thy God am a jealous God, visking
the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto
the third and fourth generation of them that bate
- me; and shewing mercy unto thousands of them
that love me, and keep my commandments."
- Erodvs XX. £
94 The Key to the Universe
The Lord thy God is a jealous God in the sense that
nothing can stand between Him and man's love for the
Divine. Anything which diverts man's allegiance from
Him or is placed before Him must be swallowed up in
the O naught.
The latter part of this Commandment may sound
like a threat. In reality it is but a setting forth of the
Law in its aspect as Karma. 1st, it is plainly stated
that we are not to make images, mistake them for Real-
ities and worship them. Then the inevitable result of
so doing is set forth. Is not the world today suffering
from the "iniquities of the fathers" or the disobedience
to this 2nd Commandment? this 1st and primal rule of
the plane of differentiation or duality? Have not our
fathers mistaken the shadow for the Substance and
fallen down and worshipped the Golden Calf? Have
they not graven images of that which the Light
revealed to them instead of the Light? Do we not
today worship various man-made images of God? Do
we not worship traditiona graven image of the reve-
lation of the Lightinstead of turning our eyes to the
Light ourselves and knowing that it will lead us out
of the bondage of our fathers' false images and con-
ceptions of Life, its needs and requirements, into a
realization of our spiritual heritage? Esoterically this
means that by his misuse of his creative powers man
has impregnated the aura of the world upon the 3
planes with his mistakes and these must finally manifest
upon the 4th or physical plane. Hence the children of
man will suffer until his false images have had their
day upon earth; have manifested their human origin;
have proved their fallibility and have been replaced by
the true worship of the 1 Reality, the Divine Light.
Those who "hate" the Lord are those who reverse
Divine Love or who refuse to work in harmony with
the Law. They suffer unto the 3rd and 4th generation,
The zud Cornnsandment 95
not in the sense of a punishment for something their
fathers did, but because they continue to worship the
graven images handed down by their fathers. They
give their lives and the mighty power of their thought
to preserve the images which are literally graven upon
the Alcashic Records by their fathers' misconceptions
of the 1 God. Variation and progression are the basic
principles of all evolution; an ever changing manifesta-
tion and an ever widening, comprehension of unity in
the manifold expressions of the 1 God.'
The same divine and inexorable Law must show
mercy to thousands (an indefinite term expressing a
vast number) of those who love the Reality; who seek
the Light; who endeavor to keep the Coimnandinents
and live in harmony with the Law as it is revealed
to them, instead of worshiping the graven images of
tradition. Mercy is shown us, even when we falter and
fail, so long as we give our love and allegiance to the 1
God and earnestly strive to follow the Light which has
cwought us out of Egypt and out of the house of band..
age, the senses.
St. Gertjsü
EGYPTIAN
THE 2ND TAROT CARD
HIGH PBIESTESS
Paps MEDIEVAL
Smith
MODERN
THE HIGH PRIESTESS
CHAPTER 11
THE 2ND TAZOT c&an, The High Priestess.
This card beautifully expresses the Mother idea con-
tained in number 2. In the 1st -card we see man
standing in the midst of nature and surrounded by
all the attributes of power or the ability to rule out-
wardly. In the 2nd card we find woman veiled and
enthroned between the 2 columns of the Temple, in
the portico or entrance to the inner shrine. She- is
invested with the insignia of spiritual authority, the
Robe of purity; the Triple- Crown showing that she
must rule on the 3 planes through her: Divine Mother-
hood. In her right hand she holds the partly opened
Boolc of the Law,.which, however, is partially hidden
from-the profane within the foldsof her Mantle.. In
her left hand .she holds the symbol of her authority as
interpreter of the Law, possessing its positive and nega..
tive Keys. The Tiara upon her bead is surmounted
by the lunar crescent, symbol of her feniinine functions
and her power as the Bringer-forth of the Race. She
rules not by might nor by force, but by the mysterious
power of Mother-love; which under the influence of the
invisible and périodicforcesof the moon enables her
to bring forth, as it also does the earth. By the unen-
lightened the moon is suppõsed to be but a satellite of
the earth, altho in reality it is the mother of the earth,
the giver of its life terrestrial. In a similar manner
throughout many ages, among the spiritually unen-
lightened, woman - has been looked upon as a mere
chattd or satellite of man, yet from whom he has ever
received his inspiration as well as his physical body,
and to whose mystic power he instinctively bows. Even
98 The Key to the Universe
though ignored, degraded and denied a Soul, she has
nevertheless swayed nations and kingdoms and been
a powerful factor in the world, through the influence
proceeding from the sacred inner shrine of Mother-
hood.
Woman's true place is as the High Priestess of
mankind and she should fill the same position in each
home. As we have said elsewhere: "True woman is
positive upon the spiritual plane, where man is neg-
ative, and negative upon the physical plane, where man
is positive. To her belongs the control of all those ques-
tions which deal with the higher life. She must use her
intuition in the directing of all activities pertaining to
the altruistic side of life, just as man uses his reason in
worldly affairs. She should be man's moral and spir-
itual monitor and his source of inspiration and spiritual
neip." She it is, as this Tarot card shows, who can
open for him the Book of the Law and inspire him
with its truths. For he can read and grasp its real
meaning only as he seeks, within the sheltering porch
of the Temple of Isis, for a true revelation of the mys-
teries of the Mother.
The 2 columns express, from this inner or feminine
aspect, the same meaning as the 2 arms of the Juggler
in the 1st card expressed outwardly, i. e., positive and
negative, or Jakin and Boas, Justice and Mercy. In
much of the Moorish architecture, especially in their
temples, we find at the entrance 2 columns united by
an arch, with an interlacing of lattice work just beneath
it. The symbology of this characteristic form of
entrance, either to the home or the temple, is the same
as we find in this Tarot card, namely, that the 2 col-
umns, Justice and Mercy, man and woman, intellect and
heart, must be united in the higher aspects of all their
forces, and must each send out and interlace their
F. .1 7.. 339.
The 2nd Tot Card, the High Friesteu 99
forces over the portal by which hnminity must enter
the Temple of the higher life.
On her breast the Priestess bears the Solar Cross,
the symbol that must ever express the crucifixion;
the effort of Spirit to penetrate matter; the
Light to illumine darkness, and that which is inner
and sacred to express outwardly in the life. Hence
this symbol upon the breast (over the heart) expresses
woman, who ever bears the cross in her heart, while
man bears it before the world and fights its baffles in
the arena of life.
The Veil represents the sacred Mystery of Mother-
hood not to be rudely lifted by the profane or dese-
crated by the impious, whether this be the motherhood
that gives birth to the physical body or the far more
sacred and veiled birth of The rist-child within the
heart. Isis is represented as having 7 veiW which
shroud the mystery of birth, hence birth is the most
profound and sacred of all mysteries, and has its
correspondence on the 7 planes of consciousness.
The first 2 letters of the Hebrew alphabet, with their
corresponding numbers, 1 and 2, as well as the 1st and
2nd cards of the symbolic Tarot, reveal the true rela-
tionship of man and woman. God is represented as
taking Eve out of Adam's side during a deep sleep,
because it was not good for man to be alone. In other
words number 1 pierced the darkness or deep sleep of
matter and when by its brightness it was able to
produce its shadow, number 2 came into manifestation.
Hence man is the positive or outer expression of the
microcosm, and it is man who must fight the outer con-
ditions and make a place for himself, while woman is
the inner Soul or Inspirer, or shadow of God to man.
That is, since number 1 produced 2 as a shadow
or impression in matter, number 2 must have been an
inner aspect or the real Soul of the manifesting 1. For
F. .1 I_ 253.
100 The Key to the Universe
1 stands alone until out of its Side or Heart or Inner
Self it can impress the reality of the Light upon the
darkness.
If we think of number 2 as radiance instead of a
shadow we will get a better conception of its real mean-
ing, for number 2 is the radiance produced by the light
of the 1 piercing the darkness of Chaos. Indeed, this
is the true mission of woman, i. e., to be the radiance
and the light of mankind, giving birth to the ideals of
the Race. Hence the position held by woman in any
country has always indicated its degree of true civili-
zation and progress. Woman should always be the
High Priestess, reading from the book of the Divine
Law of Love in the shelter of the Temple, or home,
that man in his struggle with outer conditions may
catch the radiance of Love, Truth and Wisdom reflected
on his Path of Attainment This, however, in no way
implies that woman should confine herself to the duties
of the household and become a household drudge and
mere breeder of the race, for the home or Temple is
the sacred Shrine of Inspiration to be found in every
walk of life. It should be the duty of every true woman
not only to sit within the portal of this Shrine, be she
engaged in whatsoever duty in whatsoever capacity, but
she should also be the Inspirer or radiant Light lead.
ing and guiding man toward ever higher ideals, and
to greater efforts toward reaching the goal of his high-
est attainment. Even though she be walking side by
side with him, yet in a mystical sense she should ever
be the Light set in the window of the home to guide
him safely through the storms and darkness of outer
conditions. It is also woman's place to cover with
her Mantle of Love and healing the scars and wounds
received by man in the battles of life which he fights
for her and the home. For within those magic folds
the Great Law shall bring understanding out of con
The 2nd Tarot Card, the High Priestess 101
fusion, Wisdom out of experience and strength out of
failure. In the hands of the mothers of the Race rests
its salvation, no matter if they be mothers of physical
children or mothers of ideals and reforms. -
Like all things intended for the highest good, the
perversion of woman's forces has done more to push
man deeper into the mire of selfishness, sensuality and
despair than all other things combined. But the Lords
of Karma who ever hold a just balance, hold out to
woman the opportunity for an advanced step, because
of the lessons learned through suffering and degrada-
tion. Because the cross has rested heavily upon her
heart, The Christ in her has been crucified and must
be lifted up that He maj draw all men unto Him. Woe
then to the woman who lives in frivolity and- idleness,
as the plaything of humanity. Woe to the mothers who
bring not forth children of Light, but perverted temples
of iniquity full of pride, lust and all manner of unwor-
thiness. Woe to the women who, because of pride,
vanity and lust, seek not to inspire man but to entice,
seduce and enslave him.
Woman today stands in the portal of the Temple
of the New. Humanity and only she, can throw
wide the Door. The day is comng when the
eyes of all must be opened, and both man and
womån behold the Living Christ whom they have crud-
fled. In that day there can be no recriminations, 1
saying to the other, "thou art to blame, or thou didst
tempt me and I did eat," for man and woman are 1 in
the sight of God. A perfect humanity must express
absolute equalitÿ, but not uniformity. The shell of
the nut represents the nut to the outer world and pro-
tects the kernel, but if the kernel is bad the nut is
worthless.
CHAPTER 12
THE NUMBER 3.
"The Deity is one, because It is infinite. - It is
triple, because It is ever manifesting."
The Kabbalah.
"The King of ages, the merciful and gracious
God, the exalted One, the Dweller in Eternity,
most high and holyengraved his name by the
three SeraphimNumbers, Letters, and Sounds."
Sepher Yetzirah, Chapter.i.
Since I is unity and hence no number, 3 is called the
1st odd number. 3 is the Number of the Trinity, hence
Divine. In number 1 the Divine came down into mani-
festation, in 2 it was met by the inertia of matter, but
in 3 it penetrated into matter and manifested the "only
begotten Son." This process is illustrated by the
equilateral triangle A in which the positive and neg-
ative forces from the dot above bring forth a stable
manifestation on the physical-plane, the base line. The
triangle is the 1st geometrical figure, for "the number
2 is like two straight lines which can never enclose a
space, and therefore it is powerless till the number 3
forms a triangle." Again the triangle may be consid-
ered as Spirit and Matter united by Mind.
Number 3 is sacred and Divine because it symbolizes
the 3 fold Deity, the Trinity; the Father, the Mother
and the Son; the Father, Son and Holy Ghost of the
Christians; the Brahma, Siva and Vishnu of the
Hindus; the Osiris, Isis and Horus of the Egyptians,
etc. In another aspect 3 is the number of the 3 mani-
festations of Deity, the Logoi. The 1st Logos is Unity,
the Undifferentiated; the 2nd Logos is a trinity of the
The Number 3 103
1 Life, Spirit-Matter and CÓsmic Consciousness; the
3rd Logos is Mahat, Cosmic Ideation or Universal
Mind. 3 is the Number of the Mystery of Ufe.* Stinson
Jarvis in his articles on the Druids' states that, "The
Druids described deity as being ONE and TWO and
THREE; and, by itself, our T means Three, and our
word 'T.ltL', meaning Three, named this number
from the Isthmus of Darien to the remote Pacific
islands, showing that there was one Druid word-making
for the entire world, and one priesthood to carry our
words into every country. Father Smiddy says:
'Three was the Druid mystical number. With them
nearly all things resolved themselves into a Trine.' This
was the D-OC-TRINE, or 'Trine-Teaching,' preached
in America for ages, and TRI-N-I-TE says 'Three,
Heaven Island God'."
3 is the number of the trilogies used to measure the
manifestations of all things to the human conscious-
ness, such as substance, life, intelligence; matter, force,
consciousness; heat, light, electricity; length, breadth,
thickness; creation, preservation, dissolution; thinker,
thought, thing thought of, etc. By some 3 is loosely
spoken of as the number of man because of his division
into body, Soul and Spirit, but as this is only a super-
ficial and exoteric division, 3 is not properly man's
symbol As 3 includes past, present and future it is
sometimes called the Number of Tùne. It is also called
the Middle or the Analogy, because all comparisons
are expressed in 3 terms, good, bad and indifferent
The Egyptian Trinity is composed of Osiris (water,
especially their sacred river Nile), Isis (earth, espe-
cially the land of Egypt over which she reigned), and
Horus (air, especially the moist warm air after the
overflow of the Nile in spring). Thus the Nile repre-
sented to the Egyptians the great fertilizing power of
the Father, and at its annual overflow there was great
-
The third stage in the manifestation of life in the plant after
the two horizontal leaves are put forth is the stalk springing up from
them. In the developing egg the last of the three fundamental tissue.
I. developed between the two mentioned in the note to page 54. This
third tissue is the me.oderm or mesoblast, thus completing the trinity ci
tissues from which the whole body ii made up.
104 The Key to the Universe
rejoicing and many religious rites were celebrated
because Osiris was fecundating the Queen Mother,
Isis. After the river receded the entire valley, which
before the overflow was dry and brown, was covered
with the tender green of the spring crops. The moist
balmy air which pervades the valley at that time was
considered the child of Isis and Osiris, Horns. If the
rains in the interior were late and the rising of the Nile
was delayed, processions were formed and prayers
offered entreating Osiris to look upon his spouse with
favor.
In astronomy recent discoveries2 have revealed a
trinity in the motions of the stars, each having 3 distinct
motionsrotatory, orbital, lineari. e., each rotates on
its axis, gyrates around the central sun of its system,
and also drifts toward a point outside its zodiac. Just
so does each Soul have its inner point about which it
rotates; its Spiritual Sun about which it gyrates and
which determines the orbit of its evolution, and also
its Destiny or place in the Grand Plan of the Universe,
toward which it is steadily being swept by the Great
Law while evolving the qualities necessary to enable it
to fulfill its Destiny.
In addition to the 2 great star-streams well known
to astronomers, a 3rd but much smaller stream has
recently been discovered which is independent of the
other 2. Such is the mysterious law called gravitation,
that the heavenly bodies are not only bound together
by mutual attraction, but are also held at relatively
fixed distances apart; as though gravitation brought
them only so near to each other and some counter repel-
lant force kept them from approaching nearer. In
reality that which limits their nearer approach is the
limits of their auras. Of these 3 star-streams 1 is
going outward into manifestationa cycle requiring
some aeons of agesand 1 stream is going inward to
' See Stellar Move,,,.,sSs a,,d th. Strurturs of ths UuAvsv, Prof.
A. S. Eddington. Alec monographs by Dr. Campbeil and Prof. Atken
of LåCIC Obecryatorir.
The Number-3 los
its rest or pralaya, while the 3rd and smaller stream is
composed of those stars and systems which have
attained Mastery and become independent of thõ other
2 streams; in other words, have become immortaF br
the cycle of the niahamanvantara or great world-period.
Just so are there 3 streams of humanity, 1 going out
into manifestation in incarnation, 1 going inward to
rest between incarnations, and a 3rd and very small
stream of those who have attained Mastery and imnvr-
tality for this manvantara or world-period.
Science has recently discovered that the entire visible
universe is a huge spiral made up of a series of lesser
spiral systems. It has long been known that the giant
nebulae, or world systems in the process of formation,
are spiral in shape, each having its central nucleus or
Dot from which the system emanated. And since the
outline of a spiral is , we see that the 2 with
a dot at the apex is a cosmic symbol which cor-
rectly portrays the Law of Manifestationof individ-
uals, of worlds, of universesfor the life cycle of all
forms of manifestation is spiral in character. "As above,
so below." We may think our lives are on a dead
level, because our physical, mental and spiritual lives
may seem to be but a succession of days and nights in
which we experience similar conditions, but by a study
of the Law we find that all evolution is in spirals, each
life having its personal, racial and universal motions.
Hence we find that as we evolve we pass over, again
and again, the decisive points in our lives, but at each
repetition we are on a little higher round of experience
and attainment. Each Race as a whole, and the planet
itself, also have their spirals of evolution.
The widespread manifestation of triplicities is shown
in the celestial signs, each of which has a fixed, movable
and common quarternion, also 3 decans. Among these
signs there is a triplicity for each of the 4 elements,
106 The Key to the Universe
thus: the Fire signs are Aries, Leo, Saggitarius; the
Earth signs Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn; the Air signs
Gemini, Libra, Aquarius; the Water signs Cancer,
Scorpio, Pisces. Astrologers also regard the 3rd day
after the new moon as the most fortunate day of the
month. The Hermetics had 3 symbolic animals con-
nected with their magic: the Bull, symbol of earth or
philosophic Salt; the Dog, Herm-anubis, the Mercury
of the Sages or fluid, air and water; the Goat, symbol
of Fire and generation. 3 is also the Number of the
Akasha, the so-called Veil of Deity, the great store-
house of all events, past, present and future.
3 is the Number of Divine Love, also man, woman
and the magnetic attraction between them united in the
Divine. It is Divine Love overshadowing and mani-
festing through the "two witnesses" mentioned in
Revelation, i. e., man and woman. For every true
marriage in which human love reaches up to and blends
with Divine Love is a witness on earth that Divine Love
has been able to penetrate into and manifest through
humanity. 3 is therefore the number of a perfect mar-
riage made in heaven, or the masculine and feminine
expression of human love united above the earth in
Divine Love, the completion of the triangle.
The triangle is pre-eminently the symbol of the
triune Godhead. But all manifestations of that God-
head must contain a reflection of the triangle(a) the
inner reality, (b) the outer manifestation, and (c) the
life-force which unites the 2else the Deity would not
be represented in His works. As number 2 symbol-
izes the 1 Ray separated and manifested upon the phys-
ical plane in the pairs of opposites, so number 3 sym-
bolizes the evolution of the pairs of opposites to a point
of perfect balance or at-one-ment with their source;
the Divine merging into them that it may uplift and
redeem them. In other words, in 3 there is the
chapter x. 3.
Tue Number 3 107
Dot which overshadows each pair of opposites A,
the goal toward which they are evolving; the
state of perfection which will manifest when the
experience of both extremes -has been garnered
and indrawn to the point above the physical
plane. Number 3 therefore symbolizes the bal-
ance of all manifested things in the Godhead;
is a prophecy of their ultimate perfection and
their unity in the Divine. Hence the sacredness with
which number 3 has always been regarded in religions.
Applying this triune principle to humanity we find
that man and woman, being the microcosm of the
macrocosm and embodying all the pairs of opposites in
natureheat and cold, pleasure and pain, good and
evil, ete.must ultimately find their completion, bal-
ance and perfection in union in the Dotin the divine
marriageabove the physical plane. As they advance
toward this perfection they will, of necessity, balance
all the pairs of opposites manifesting in-their micro-
cosm.
"All Souls are pre-existent in the world of emana-
tions, and are in their original state androgynous, but
when they descend upon the earth they become sepa-
rated into male and female, and inhabit different bod-
ies; if therefore in this mortal life the male half encoun-
ters the female half, a strong attachment springs up
between them, and hence it is said that in marriage
the separated halves are again conjoined; and the
hidden forms of the soul are akin to the kerubim."
Since the great goal toward which all manifested
things are evolving is the reunion of the many in the
One from which they emanated, as the positive and
negative poles express on earth they are ever seeking
to return to Their unity in the Dot. Hence they attract
or reach toward each other (Fig. 2). When they
unite and are balanced they bring forth a 3rd line,
'Thi K.bbdal. Uvsil,J. Matkers. 34-S.
&eki,zba1aj',csii iy&ekw
wcendi*glo M souj aôove
the base of the triangle or "the only begotten son,"
(Fig. 3).
The triangle is therefore the symbol of Satisfaction,
for the only true satisfaction is the response we feel to
the force poured out through some form of union with
the Divine. The only real satisfaction is experienced
in the thrill of oneness that comes when a Ray from the
Divine within us finds expression in manifestation on
any plane, physical, mental or spiritual, from the thrill
that results from an unselfish deed, a kind word or a
generous forgiveness, to the ecstasy of conscious union
with the Higher Self in the highest Initiation or in that
most mystical sacrament "the marriage of the Lamb."
Union between the positive and negative poles of dis-
similar Rays may make a union on the physical plane,
but it can never bring more than physical satisfaction.
And as this can be but texnporary, it cannot bring that
true happiness which results from union on all planes.
As man and woman are the "lords of creation," so
must they in turn become the redeemers (the Dot
'Os The Key to the Universe
-
The Number 3 109
above) of the lower kingdoms, and lift up all lower
aspects of creation into a higher octave of expression.
Even as Jesus said of the Christ within: "If I be lifted
upl will draw all men unto me," so as man and woman
are united and lift up The Christ within them 'will they
draw all the lower pairs of oppositesthe lower king-
domsunto them.
Today there are many who, awakening to the vital
ideal of true marriage; are no longer satisfied with the
mere husks or outer conceptions of life so long consid-
ered satisfying. They realize that in contracting a mar-
riage the religious aspirations of both the man and the
woman should be centered in the same spiritual ideals
(the same Dot above), so that as both evolve and
advance toward the realization of those ideals they
may grow ever closer and closer, thus We
may illustrate this by the following diagram, which is
intended to be merely illustrative and not literal:
flfJC#
110 The Key to the Universe
If, for instance, a positive personality of the Higher
Self A unites with a egative personality of the same
Higher Self Ato which it could alone truly belong
as they each advance spiritually and evolve upward
toward the Higher Self of each they must necessarily
grow closer to each other, for they are evolving toward
union with the same overshadowing Dot. But if a
positive personality of the Higher Self A should unite
with a negative personality of another Dot or Higher
Self, of which it is not an emanationsay of the Higher
Selves B or Cthen as each personality advanced spir-
itually and evolved upward along its Ray toward union
with its Higher Self, instead of the personalities grow-
ing closer together on all planes, they must inevitably
grow farther and farther apart on the higher planes
and this must ultimately lead to separation on the phys-
ical planefor each I is evolving toward union with
a different Dot, thus:
a
7%
/%\ S
J \__
Therefore, there may develop great inharniony on
the physical plane, not because they are becoming less
spiritual, but because they are advancing and being
drawn into different currents of force which do not
harmonize. And as the great Law of Divine Love
ever seeks greater and more perfect expressions of
harmony, when whatever physical harmony there may
have been at first has expressed itself, the Great Law
tends to separate them that each may be able to man-
ifest a higher state of harmony. In such cases separa-
tion on the physical plane, instead of being a calamity,
is a blessing aiid an absolute necessity for the spiritual
advance of each.
- TlieNumber3 111
In the marital relations of the present day these spir-
itual lines of force are woefully mixed and tangled,both
through the Karma of similar mistakes in the past and
through allowing other considerations than Divine Love
to bring about union on the physical plane. No matter
how eugenically perfect the animal bodies of the parents
may be, perfect love is the only force that will attract
advanced Souls to incarnation in the perfect bodies
furnished by the parents. Without it only such Souls
will be attracted as are willing to incarnate under the
loveless conditions offered. But as we enter into the
cycle of the new Aquarian Age there must be a great
readjustment and untangling process carried out as
rapidly as the working out of past Karma permits, so
that each may return to his or her true spiritual
allegiance and make straight the crooked paths of spir-
itual force crc the coming of The Christ. For The
Christthe essence of the Divine Dotcannot inani-
fest in perfection until its positive and negative vehicles
are united and the Path made straight, .thus
This is illustrated by the story of John the Baptist
being clothed in skins and crying in the wilderness;
for the Soul is clad in its animal nature (skin) and
wanders in the wilderness of the outer life until the
Path is made straight and a way for the manifestation
of Divine Love through the Law of Unity is prepared.
Therefore, from a geometrical standpoint we see
that a marriage can never be truly harmonious unless
there is a common source of interest or aspiration out-
side of and above the personalities, in which the 2 can
unite, or a common Dot into which the sides of the
human triangle can merge. Even though both are
expressions of the same Divine Self, if they are at all
spiritually advanced and 1 of the 2 seeks further spir-
itual advance through 1 school of religious or occult
112 The Key to the Universe
teaching while the other seeks in a divergent school
for instance, if 1 be a Catholic and the other a Prot-
estant, or 1 an Occultist and the other an orthodox
literal Christianthey must at least temporarily grow
apart in the higher realms, even if they remain together
on the physical-plane, because they are separated in the
higher realization and expression of their oneness.
Of course such persons will come together ultimately
through a higher understanding, but only after a
period of suffering which should be unnecessary. In
such cases the course of their evolution, 1st separating
for a time and then returning, may be represented,
not by a triangle, but by a hexagram, the figure which
forms the center of the interlaced triangles, thus:
This figure is the center of the Seal of Solomon or
the Heart of Wisdom, hence they will reach their true
union, through the suffering of spiritual loneliness
etc., only after they have found the Heart of Wis-
doni. And if 1 subordinates his or her spiritual ideals
to the other the spiritual growth of both is retarded.
In other words, only as the lives of both are blended
- The Number 3 113
on all planes and are centered in a common idãl but-
side of and above their personalities, can they grow
into that perfect spiritual oneness represented by the
overshadowing Dot A.
As this spiritual oneness is attained the 2 manifes-
tations grow closer and closer together on the base
linethe physical planeuntil finally, instead of
reaching the Divine along the slanting, complementary
lines forming the sides of the triangle, the forces from
each are indrawn to the center where they blend into
the vertical Iine--the straight and narrow Path
which reaches in oneness direct to the Divine within,
thus Therefore we would say that the effect-
ive remedy for the divorce evil is to teach, firstly, the
necessity for .a oneness of spiritual ideals, and sec-
ondly, the necessity of both Souls following the Divine
guidance of their overshadowing Dot until, through
prayer and meditation, they receive the positive æzssur-
ance from within that their lines of spiritual evolution
converge toward the same spiritual Dot or that their
Souls had emerged from and are evolving back to the
same Divine Source, the creative Dot or Over-Soul
overshadowing the 1 triangie But before they can
do this they-must be sure that they have freed them-
selves of self-deception and -a -determined self-will
which makes the thing they want- seem to be the right
thing, eva though it requires excuse after excuse to
make it plausible.
On the other hand do not be too hasty in
deciding that each is evolving toward a different
center, for it may be that in reality both are
seeking the same pcùt, but have not yet found the
straight and narrow Path common to both, or even
realized that their complementary lines will ultimately
114 The Key to the Universe
reach the same Dot. For even the fact that they have
recognized their spiritual unity does not mean that
there will be no more unpleasant lessons to learn, no
friction in the adjustments necessary on the physical
plane. But whatever frictions may develop and what-
ever inharmonies may assail them, their unity in the
higher realms will enable them to recognize the true
nature of these and look upon them as tests meant to
prove them, while the overshadowing Divine Love
will give them the strength to overcome such condi-
tions and make them but transitory storms which clear
the air. A little extra patience and toleration and a
willingness to give up a preconceived idea as to what
is the only or best way to reach the goal may open
their eyes to the fact that each is seeking the same
divine Dot, but has a different way of manifesting it
for the time being. Only as we permit the divine Dot
to shine into our hearts and draw our Souls into one-
ness with It can we attain the wisdom and love which
will draw to us that which is our own and reveal to
us beyond the possibility of mistake our next step.
This teaching must not be made the excuse for di-
vorce without adequate cause for a union, even though
it may not be ideal, may nevertheless be the means of
teaching the most important lessons of this incarna-
tion. And as we do not limit ourselves to the 1 life-
period, there is plenty of time for adjustment in ac-
cordance with the Law.
'Por our tetching. on divorce see Letters frees She Teach.,, Cuztiu,
chapter. The See Probjsiss,
CHAPTER 13
mE iiuun 3(Continued).
"The perfect word is the triad, because it
supposes an intelligent principle, a speaking
principle, and a principle spoken.
Trau.rcendental Magic, Levi, 45.
"The heavens were produced from Fire; the
earth from water; and the Air from the Spirit
is as a reconciler between the Fire and the
Water."
Sepher Yetzirai., 19.
Number 3 is "the Word made flesh and dwelling
among us," for it is the base line or the magnetic
attraction which unites the positive and negative forces
and completes the triangle. Similarly the sun is a
manifestation of the Trinity as force, i.e., heat, light
and electricity, all of which are expressions of the
divine Spiritual Fire or "cold flame" represented by
number 1. This Spiritual Flame cannot enter the
physical plane without manifesting these 3 aspects.
Science tells us that if a gasand theoretically all
substances when in a gaseous statecould be reduced
to a temperature called "absolute zero" (2730), it
would disappear or cease to exist; hence heat is a
prime requisite for any form of manifestation. When
heat is increased or its vibrations raised to a certain
degree light appears, and when the note of vibration
is still further increased electricity or radiant energy
manifests.
Number 1 in 1 sense may be compared to man and
to-the heat of the sun, its active principle; number 2,
to woman or the light of the sun, its passive principle,
while number 3 would stand for the son or that mag-
116 The Key to the Universe
netism which exists between positive and negative,
heat and light, man and woman, that the 2 may mani-
fest in oneness of being. From another standpoint
the sun may also be used to symbolize the Father-in-
heaven, the light of the Son sent forth to redeem the
darkness, while the magnetism would be the Holy
Ghost, the unseen magnetic energy which is forever
with us. It is the Comforter in that it reconciles the
extremes or pairs of opposites; the Revealer which
shows them in their true relations. It shall bring all
things to our remembrance, i. e., that we may never
forget the fact that no matter how lost in the darkness
we may seem to be, we can always see the Light shin-
ing from our Father's home to illumine our Path, if
we will but turn our faces toward it. As we realize
that this spiritual magnetism pervades our body, brain
and consciousnessas it pervades all nature and the
universewe find that it is a link which binds the
microcosm (man) to the macrocosm. Hence, just as
a paleontologist can reconstruct a prehistoric animal
from 1 bone, so can we, if we find within ourselves 1
substance that is identical in man, nature and the
Cosmos or 1 thread running through and connecting
all, by studying that substance and correlating our
consciousness with that thread, bring all things to
our remembrance; for man, being a Ray from the
Divine, does not so much acquire new knowledge as
he gradually remembers the knowledge that was his
in the realms of the Divinehis Father's home.
Heat is the result of the resistance offered by matter
to the activity of the Spiritual Flame. Heat may be
said to be the lowest and most physical expression or
body of Fire. Light is produced by the overcoming
of the resistance that a greater expression of Fire
its Soul, so to speakmay manifest. Electricity or
radiant energy may be considered as the spirit of
Tke'Niáber3(Contiuied) 117
Divine Fire, just as beat is its body and light or solar
fire its soul. Hence electricity or radiant energy is
the most potent of' all known manifestations of force.
But man has as yet touched only its outer and most
gross manifestation, for he scarce knows the a-b-c of
that Power of which electricity is but 1 manifestation.
As he enters the new sub-race the discovery of other
and, greater aspects and manifestations of that Power
will be the opening of a door which will admit him
into a new world of force and energy. But as long
as he is capable of utili7ing his knowledge of the
higher forms of force for selfish purposes and for the
destruction of his fellow men, through engines of war,
etc., the door will be kept closed against him.
All life is a manifestation of the Trinity or number
3, but since man has not yet mastered its 3 expressions
he is subject to them. When he completes the erea-
tion of his spiritual or Nirmanakaya body' the heat
will manifest as the glow of Immortal Youth and
health, the light as Divine Illuminption aiid the elec-
tricity as the Spirit permeating every atom of' that
body. Then shall man be master of all his forces..
Since the density of the physical body of unevolved
man, together with his mental darkness,' offers great
resistance to the manifestation of the Spiritual Fire
and prevents him from working in harmony with the
Divine Life-forces, physical and mental suffering re-
sult. Hence the results of resistance to Divine Law
are represented by a- hell of blackness, intolerable heat
and suffering (the Christian idea of hell), while the
heaven world, in which the resistance is overcome, is
represented as a realm of glorious Light and joy, the
Seirit being the power which converts the hell into a
heaven. Similarly, electricity corresponds to the mag-
netic force which forms the Path and mediates between
heaven and hell, or The Christ which descends into hell
'Sec Ldters fr.w Slit TeccA.r. 68.
118 The Key So the Universe
as a consuming fire, but dwells in heaven as a radiant
Light
The tripod has the same symbology as the triangle
and was used in many mystic ceremonies in the ancient
temples. The most famous was the Deiphic Tripod
or sacrificial altar upon which the Pythian Priestess
sat while delivering the oracles of the gods. After
chewing a sacred bay leaf and drinking from the
sacred spring Cassotis (the Water of Life), the priest-
ess took her seat upon a tripod placed in the inner
shrine, and there answered the questions that had been
previously submitted in writing. In other words, be-
fore receiving the revelation from the Divine the Vir-
gin Priestess must drink of the true spiritual "Waters
of Life," i. e., must have received the illumination of
Divine Wisdom, so that her eyes are opened and her
mind illumined to comprehend the spiritual symbols
given her and translate them into their corresponding
terms or allegories; for only such an I can be a true
Priestess and be used as an avenue through which the
Waters of Life can flow forth for the healing of the
nations. So must the Priestess of the Home have her
eyes opened and her mind illumined tlrough the con-
summation of the alchemical sacrifice in which the
spiritual power of perfect love turns the Waters of
Life into the Wine of the Spirit.
As the true office of the Priestess became overlaid
with misconceptions, priestcraft and selfishness, too
often the Pythian Priestess was but a subjective me-
dium or perhaps a clairvoyant who could merely relate
what she saw, without the illumination of Divine
Wisdom correctly to interpret the visions seen, hence
the subsequent degradation of her high office.
Another celebrated tripod was the "Plataen." This
was made from a 10th part of the spoils taken from
the Persian army after the battle of Plataea. It con-
The Number 3(Contmued) 119
sisted of a golden basin supported by a bronze serpent
with 3 heads, or 3 serpents intertwined, within the
golden bowl of which the sacred fire was kept burning.
The golden bowl here has the same symbology as the
Holy Grail, s. 4 the receptacle in which the creative
Christ-force is caught that it may bring forth. So
frequently was the tripod used as a receptacle for dedi-
catory offerings to the gods that there was a street in
Athens called the "Street of Tripods," from the large
number of such tripods dedicated to various gods and
containing live coals upon which passing pedestrians
could sprinkle incense. Hence, from its true symbol-
ogy, every home should have its mystic tripod. No
Priest and Priestess of the Home who have lit the fire
of Divine Love in the Golden Bowl need ever fear
separation; for all the little differences and inharmo-
nies will be consumed in the purifying Flame of that
Love.
According to the SeJiher Yetzfrah:2 "The Three
Mothers, Alejh, Mem and Shin, are a great Mystery,
very admirable and most recondite, and sealed with
six rings; and from them proceed Air, Fire and
Water, which divide into male and female forces. The
Three Mothers, Aleph, Mem and Shin, are the Foun-
dation, from them spring three Fathers, and from
these have proceeded all things that are in the world
* * * from the fire was made heat, from the waters was
made cold, and from air was produced the temperate
state, again a mediator between them. * * * Fire,
Water and Air are found in Man: from fire was
formed the head; from the water the belly; and from
the air was formed the chest, again placed as a media-
tor between the others." In the Bible we again find
these 3 Mothers in the 3 women at the tomb. The
letter M itself means both mother and water, each
name beginning with M having some connection with
120 The Key to the Universe
the idea of water or motherhood; for example, Mare
or Mary is the sea or the Great Deep, the Mother of
all Living, etc.
In the Kabalistic TrinityKether, Chkmah and
Binahthe 3rd Sephira, Binah, is called Understand-
ing. The 1st Sephira is Divine Love and the 2nd is Wis-
dom, but so long as they are not joined by an under-
standing of their divine qualities they are like 2
straight lines running side by side which can never
unite until a 3rd line, the mediator, joins them, thus
completing the manifestation of the 2, positive and
negative, masculine and feminine. The 3rd Sephira
is sometimes called the Great Mother who brings
forth for the lower planes of manifestation. For only
through an understanding of Divine Love and Wis-
dom can we bring them forth in our lives.
According to the Kabbalah the ideas of the learned
Rabbis are as follows: "The soul is veiled in light.
This light is triple: Neschamah, the pure spirit;
Ruach, the soul or spirit; Nephesch, the plastic media-
tor. * * * The body is the veil of Nephesch,
Nephesch is the veil of Ruach, Ruach is the veil of
the shroud of Neschamah. * * * There are 3
habitations of souls: the Abyss of Life; the superior
Eden; the inferior Eden. * * * There are 3 at-
mospheres for the souls. The third atmosphere fin-
ishes where the planetary attraction of other worlds
commences. Souls perfected on this earth pass on to
another station. After traversing the planets they
come to the sun; then they ascend into another uni-
verse and recommence their planetary evolution from
world to world and from sun to sun. In the sun they
remember, and in the planets they forget. The solar
lives are days of Eternal Life, and the planetary lives
are nights with their dreams."5
Kaêbaia RsvsuJsd. Mathcrs. 36.7.
The Number 3(ContiÌued) 121
Noab,whoisasymbolofthelGodortheSpirit
of God moving on the face of the waters, had.3 sons,
Shem, Ham and Japheth. This is an allegory sym-
bolizing that the 1 must manifest on earth as the 3.
Abr2hn1, "the father of a11 living," entertained 3
angels who told him his wife or the feminine expres-
sion, would bring forth a. son in whom all .nl2nLind
would be blessed; that is. through this son the subse-
quent races would manifest the 3 fold Divine Fire.
The 3 children of judah cast in the fiery furnace by
Nebuchadnezzar symbolize the same thing in another
aspect, i.e., the fiery furnace represents the resistance
of physical matter (hell) and the adverse earthly con-
ditions through which the 3 expressions of the Divine
walk unharmed. Jonah spent 3 days in the belly of
the great fish; the ministry of Jesus began at 30 and
lasted 3 years. He said: "Destroy this temple, and
in three days I will raise it up." He also lay for 3
days in the tomb.' All these allegories are glyphs
symbolizing the fact that the Father-ray (1) after
descending into the tomb of matter (2) must remain
hidden in the pairs of opposites until the Trinity or
triangle can manifest upon the physical plane (4),
thus fulfilling the ancient occult axiom, "The Unit
becomes the Three, and the Three generate the Four."
Or, as the Kabalists say: "The Deity is one, because
It is infinite. It is triple, because It is ever manifest-
ing." Each of the "days" referred to symbolizes the
period required for 1 aspect to complete its manIfes-
tation. And only as man's body becomes able to ex-
press in their fullness the 3 aspects of the Divine Fire
until The Christ can rise from the tomb on the 3rd
daycan it be raised up to become truly the Temple
of the Living God.
Let number 3 remind you of the manifestations of
the Trinity, the Father, Son and Holy Ghost; of the
a 5 Icucn Thr,e D.. 1* ike T.m6.
122 The Key to the Universe
mystical meaning of heat, light and electricity; of
matter, force and consciousness; of the triangle with
its base solidly established on earth yet ever pointing
upward; of man and woman united and perfectly bal-
anced in the physical life, yet evolving upward to one-
ness in the same overshadowing Dot or the Divine
Marriage. Let 3 remind you of the 3 parties to the
marriage tiethe man, the woman and the Divine
Overshadowinghence the beauty and sacredness of
a true marriage, the ideal life as long as mankind
manifests in separated sexes.
TIlE 33/2.
The 33/2, being 3/2 of 7, is frequently referred to with
mystical significance. When the mighty angel in
Revelation (xi, 1) gave the reed with which to measure
the "temple of God, and the altar, and them that wor-
ship therein," the command was given not to measure
the outer court, "for it is given unto the Gentiles: and
the holy city shall they tread under foot forty and two
months" or 33/2 years. This is most significant, for
the Temple is the physical body, while the altar is the
inner shrine of the heart. Those who truly worship
in this sacred Temple and find The Christ upon the
altar will be measured, i. e., will be understood,
weighed and given a just balance. But those who
dwell merely in the outer courts, i. e., those who dwell
merely in the outer sense perceptions, are the Gentiles,
the unbelievers who are not measured or required to
live up to the higher standards. They are given another
3.4 cycle of 33/2 years in which to learn their lessons,
even though they tread the outer courts under foot.
According to tradition Jesus remained hidden in
Egypt for 33.4 years. In the allegory of the woman
clothed with the sun,5 she dwelt in the wilderness "one
'RmiSS.L xli..
The354 123
thousand two hundred and three score days" or 334
cycles of 360 each. We also read of the mystical 2
witnesses as follows: "I will give power unto my two
witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two
hundred and three score days," again 354 years. And
all people "shall see their dead bodies three days and
a half." According to Daniel (xii, 7), the misfor-
tunes of the children of Israel were to last: "For a
time, times, and a half.'!
In the life of the sincere seeker after Truth, 354
represents a most trying and troublous period, for the
manifestation of the Deity (the 3) has descended upon
him; The Christ-child has been born in his heart, but
must be nourished in the obscurity and darkness of
Egyptthe outer life. He has consecrated his life to
the Great Work and his heart is on fire to begin his
minctry. Then, in some inexplicable way, life plunges
him into the darkness of Egyptpoverty, sickness or
some form of limitation and depression. His hands
seem tied, and the Great Work which he would do he
cannot do. All things seem to prevent him from giv-
ing his time, thought and strength to the upliftment of
humanity. The so-called sordid duties of every day
life which press upon him and demand his attention
he still has to perform while he fights against the
clouds of depression which surround him. He has
sanctified his Holy Temple, and daily performs his
worship therein. He has set up his altar within the
Holy of Holies where the fires of purification burn
continually, fed by the daily sacrifice of the faults.
failings and limitations which he recognizes and con-
sciously desires to transmute. Yet the outer courts
are still occupied by the Gentiles. And the noise of
their songs and merry-making, and of their dancing
feet ruthlessly treading underfoot, in laughing indif-
ference, the things he holds sacred, comes constantly
Ri,di.ii. ii, I.3.
124 The Key to the Universe
to his ears. Sometimes this merely disturbs his wor-
ship, but at other times it is disquietingly alluring and
seductive; for it is hard at this step to know just how
to remain in the world yet not be of it. But there is
a deep significance in the experience of this step; for
he is but following the universal law; is but passing
through the transitional experiences of 33/2 prepara-
tory to completing his Foundation Stone in number 4.
The 33/2 and its multiples constitutes an important
cycle in the course of many diseases which run their
courses (as proved by their fever charts) in waves of
time divisible by 33/2 or its multiples. This is espedally
noticeable in most infections whose incubation periods
are multiples of 35/2. It is also apparent in the periodic
function of women which occurs in a cycle of 28 days
(8 times 35/s), and usually lasts about 35/2 days.
CHAPTER 14
TEE 3RD LiÇL-I-uW, Girnel ()
1He produced Gimel, and referred it to Health;
He crowned it, combined and joined with it
Mars in the Universe, the second day of the
week and the right ear of man."
.Sepher Yetziroji, 22.
The 3rd letter- is Gimel, the 2nd of -the 7 double
letters; corresponding to our letter G. It is related
to health and its. opposite, disease, and also to the
planet Mars. The'force of Mars is the bright red
blood or life-force of the Cosmos, hence Mars rules
the blood which preserves the life and health in man
but if the blood be impure it produces fevers, humors
and divers manners of 'diseases. Because of this con-
nection the blood shed in battle is looked upon as a
sacrifice to Mars, the god of life-force, of struggle,
battle and overcoming. The force of Mars also brings
courage, enthusiasm and the unrelenting effort which
ever pushes on and overcomes all obstacles and diffi-
culties. In its lower aspects this force- manifests in
an unfavorable and disintegrating manner through
anger, passion, war and bloodshed. Mars represents
that force referred to in the Bible as the blood of "the
Lamb slain from the foundation of the world," 1 or
the spiritual life-force which shall cleanse us from sin
and by the sacrifice of whose shedding we must be
redeemed. For just as the physical body is cleansed
from disease and saved from death by being bathed
in the purified blood which mut wash each organ and
tissue, so must the spiritual life-force bathe and purify
every phase of our 7 fold being crc we can enter into
eternal life
S Rrjd.io-_ ziL L
126 The Key So the Umver:e
The literal meaning of Gimel is a camel. Aitho
the Hebrew name for camel is ga4nal, it may require
some imagination to see any relation between the letter
itself and a cameL Yet the camel bears a very close
analogy to the true meaning of the letter, for on ac-
count of its ability to store up large quantities of
water, in desert countries the camel is looked upon as
the Carrier of Life. Symbolically Gimel has come to
mean that which encloses, a hollow tube or that which
transmits vital life-force, such as an artery, etc.
Hieroglyphically Gimel means "a hand, half closed
and extended (reaching out like a camel) in order to
draw to its possessor that which is needed for his own
sustenance; so, finally Gimel comes to mean a hollow
tube or canal (like the camel's neck)," and in man is
sometimes referred to the throat. The throat con-
tains a most important center, for it is here that the
ideas conceived in thought and translated into words
are enunciated into intelligible sounds. Man alone
of all beings has this center developed, hence man
alone can translate thought into comprehensible
speech. Astronomically Gimel is associated with the
star Alcyone in the neck of the Bull (Taurus) around
which our universe is said to revolve.
Gimel has sometimes had ascribed to it a phallic
meaning. But while the phallus may in a sense rep-
resent it, since generation is but a reflection in matter
of the Great Mystery by which Spirit unites itself to
matter, the Divine becomes flesh and dwells among us,
we can see that it has a far deeper and more sacred
meaning than physical generation. In 1 sense, just as
Aleph symbolizes man and the force and activity of
the physical plane, and as Beth symbolizes woman, the
passive and receptive Principle, so Gimel symbolizes
the magnetic link between them. Only as this mag-
netic attraction is regarded by them as a sacred gift en-
The 3rd:LeIter,-Giwiel 127
trusted to them to be used to erect in humanity the
symbolic Temple of Solomonthe Temple of Wis-
domcan man and woman or Meph and Beth become
the 2 pillars Jakin and Boas with Gimel as the arch
which unites the 2 and completes the portal, the door
through which alone ni2nldnd can enter into the Holy
of Holies. Here The Christ forever stands and cries:
"Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not
by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some
other way, the same is a thief and a robbcr."
a 5g J x. I.
Papii,
THE 3RD TAROT CARD
THE EMPRESS
MEDIEVAL
MODERN
Ó
; ? ji,
\ £
1'
'W"
IL'JMPEATRJCI
The 3id Tarot Card, The Emjrezr 129
TUR 3RD TAROT z, The Empre#
This card is called "the Empress" and also the Son,
Horus, the vivifying principle of the universe. It is
represented as a woman seated and seen full face. She
is seated upon the Throne of the Sun and has 2 great
wings. In her right hand is an escutcheon bearing an
upright Eagle with outspread wings, while in her left
hand she holds a Scepter surmounted by a globe and
the symbol of Venus. She is crowned with either 12
stars .or a Crown with 12 points.
This card as a whole symbolizes he ultimate tri-
umph of the generative force when balanced, lifted up
and purified by the Sun of Righteousness, seated on
the throne of this world and crowned with the 12
signs of the zodiac. The Eagle is Scorpio, the snake
of generative force lifted up into regeneration, or
freed from its perverted aspects and able to soar up-
ward to the sun. The Scepter crowned by the symbol
Ðf Venus is the power of Motherhood, through which
she rules and uplifts the generative force. It also
indicates that only through the feminine principles of
love, intuition and obedience to the forces of the zodiac,
can the Empress reign in freedom and love. Again,
as the Eagle is also the symbol of the Soul and the
Scepter the symbol of life, together they indicate the
Holy Ghost, the magnetic force of Divine Love per-
meating humanity and attracting mankind back to
godhood and the Divine Marriage, even as men and
women are :attracted; by a lower manifestation of the
same force in ordinary marriage.
The Crown; whose 12 points represent the 12 stars,
indicates the Path and the Power by which htinian'ty
can gather up and utilizethe 12 forces of the zodiac,
but only. as the Great Mother-force of Love is en-
throned inihe sun and the Soul, like the Eagle, is free
130 The Key to the Universe
to seek its home in the radiant light of Divine Love.
It also indicates that when generation is sanctified and
illumined by the Spiritual Sun it will be crowned with
the 12 powers of the zodiac. Then the iron rod of
passion will be turned into the golden Scepter of Love
Supreme. Since the Empress combines the feminine
principles of love and intuition with the masculine
principles of will and power, this symbol indicates that
the feminine or negative force of the universe has been
combined with the masculine or positive force to form
the equilibrated force of the Son or collective human-
ity, which when it manifests these 2 forces in equi-
libriuin shall rule the world. This card also indicates
the sacred word AUM, the creator, preserver and de-
stroyer. The destruction takes place only that out of
that which was vile the mighty Venus-Urania may
re-create higher and better manifestations. This card
therefore symbolizes hieroglyphically, the conveyor of
the life-force; kabalistically, understanding; astro-
nomically, Venus as the spouse of Mars, the conveyor
of the life-force to earth.
THE 3P.D COMMANDMENT.
"Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord
(Law) thy God in vain; for the Lord (Law)
will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name
m vain."
Exodus, xx, 7.
According to P. Christian, "To pronounce a word
is to evoke a thought, and make it present; the mag
netic potency of human speech is the commencement
of every manifestation in the Occult World. To utter
a Name is not only to define a Being (and Entity),
but to place it under, and condemn it through the
emission of the Word (Verbuni) to the influence of
The 3rd Commandment 131
one or more Occult potencies. Things are, for ery
one of us, that which it (the Word) makes them while
naming them. The Word (Verbum) or the speech
of every man is, quite unconsciously to himself, a
bles.iing or a curse; * * * they are, in a certain
sense, either venomous or health-giving, according to
the hidden influence attached by the Supreme Wisdom
to their elements, that is to say, to the letters which
compose them, and the numbers correlative to these
letters. This is strictly true as an esoteric teaching
accepted by all the Eastern Schools of Occultism." S
The Name referred to in the Commandment is not
Jehovah nor the name of any 1 Divine Being, but
embraces every expression of the Divine Creative
Potency. It is fitting that this should be Command-
ment number 3, since 3 is a symbol of the Trinity or
the 3 fold expression of the Law of thy Good mani-
festing in all things. This Name or signature of the
Divine Law is always expressed as a Trinity, (a)
Divine Ideation, (b) its outpouring into manifestation
or embodiment and Cc) the result produced.
In its largest sense, therefore, the name of the Lord
thy God comprises all the expressions by which the
forces back of manifestation and evolution can be
invoked. This is the ineffable Name or expression
which man is unable to pronounce in its fulness until
he is more than man. While man is the only animal
with the power of expressing his conceptions in articu-
late speech, nevertheless the vibrations of the Creative
Word which brought all things into manifestation
reach down into every kingdom of nature and compose
the mighty Army of the Voice. It is through these
vibrations, invoked by man through the use of words
and tones, that man affects every Idngdom and awak-
ens vibrations corresponding to his words and tones.
These vibrations either help to harmonize, evolve and
S. D.. L 121.
132 The Key to the Universe
perfect all expressions of the Law (Lord) or they
help to create inharmony and resistance to the Law,
which must result in disintegration and death instead
of integration and life. All words, like the sacred
AUM' contain the Trinity or number 3 manifesting
as the forces of creation, preservation and disintegra-
tion. If the forms in the lower kingdoms did not die
and disintegrate as a result of their response to the
unharmonized, hence antagonistic vibrations awakened
and sent forth by man, this world would long since
have become a vast pandemonium of discordant, hide-
ous sounds and terrifying noises.
Since every word uttered invokes the manifestation
of certain of the potencies of the 3 or the Divine
Trinity, words which pervert the Reality which they
should express; words which do not embody and
express truth, harmony and love, as well as words
which definitely invoke and express inharmony, slan-
der and evil, carry with them the seeds of disintegra-
tion and death, and therefore take the Name of the
Lord thy God (Law of Divine Love and Harmony)
in vain. It is a most important task for the aspirant
who would be more than man, as well as for the man
who would be master of himself and his environment,
both to speak words that are true and have back of
them the potent and constructive forces of Good, also
to make the tones of his voice express the truth and
sincerity of his heart. "But I say unto you, That
every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give
account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy
words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words shalt
thou be condemned."5
Since every letter of every word we speak has a
numerical value, and since numerals are symbols of
the cosmic expression of Divine Realities, whose mani
festation normally should and ultimately must obey
'Often written OM although a 3 fold word. It. pronunc&tioO
involve. 3 center., for the San,krit 0 has the vain. of 4(1.
S. M.s*h.w. xii. 36.7.
The -3rd Comma,idmàt 133
the divine Law of Harniony under the guidanccof 1
of the 10 Sephlroth, all misused words-will inevitably
set up inharmony. And- in the-process oibringing
harmony out of such perversions the Great Law of
Karma will not hold him, ,. e., the 1 speaking the false
or inharmonious words, guiltless. Therefore, while
cursing and blaspheming may be called the extreme of
taking the Name of the Lord in vain, nevertheless we
take that Name in vain in the many lesser degrees
indicated above. While none of us are guiltless, yet
the karinic Law metes out exact justice to all. The
great mass of humanity who thoughtlessly and igno-
rantly take the Name in vain suffer from the results
in a general way, through the inharmonies expressed
through nature, i.e., climatic nditions, storms, earth-
quakes, disease germs, the antagonism of the lower
kingdoms, etc., and all the various disintegrating
manifestations of the Army of the Voice. Still those
who wilfully and with malice in their hearts slander,
lie, curse, blaspheme and defy the Lord their God,
either as a Supreme Being or as their fellow men made
in His image, literally defy the Law of their Good and
hence will reap a personal Karma of inharmony, suf-
fering, disease, disintegration and death coimnensu-
rate with the forces they, as creators, have thus in-
voked to manifest through them.
While the Law cannot hold us guiltless, until by a
full understanding and determined effort we have fully
grasped its mighty Truth andbecome 1 with it; until
we have lived it and expressed the Name in all its
aspects in our flesh, nevertheless the Law rewards
in exact justice every effort toward manifesting its
Harmony and Love through the right use of speech;
through speech that is true, kind and loving. Every
false or inharmonious expression that is conquered
and replacedbyatrue andharmonious 1 islikearadi..
134 The Key to the Universe
ant star in the firmament of our lives, which will ne
be extinguished but will go on shedding upon us
light, life and power until the Sun of Righteousn
shall rise and flood all our world with the Light
the New Day.
CHAPTER 15
TUE NUMBER 4.
"This nunder (4) * * * comprehends all
powers, both of productive and produced num-
* * * Two multiplied into itself produces 4;
and retorted into itself makes the first cube.
This cube is the fertile number, the ground
of multitude and variety * * * Thus the two
principles of temporal things, the pyramid and
cube, form and matter flow from one fountain,
the tetragon (on earth, the monad in heaven)."
.ReucMin I Cobola, OIiyer I, ii, lOt.
When the Trinity descends and manifests upon the
physical plane creation is said to be completed, i.e.,
when the upper triangle is reflected in the lower, with
the diameter common to them both. This descent
into the lower half of the circle generates the square
thua Hence 4 is the Number of the Physical
Plane, the most perfect of mundane numbers, for
according to occult mathematics it contains the po-
tency of 10, the entire cycle of manifestation.
There are 2 important laws used in occult mathe-
matics, namely, occult Addition and occult Reduction.
Occult addition is used to ascertain the occult value or
potency of any single figure. This is obtained by
adding together all the numbers from 1 up to and
including the 1 indicated. Thus 4 contains the po-
tency of 10 because 1+2+3-f4=10. Following this
law, 7 also equals 10, for 1+2+3_I I I 5+6+7=28
=10.
By occult reduction we ascertain the ultimate value
of any number containing more than 1 figure, -
136 The Key to the Universe
pressed in terms of 1 of the first 9 digits. This is
accomplished by adding together horizontally the fig..
ures composing the number and repeating this process
until the sum is expressed in 1 figure. All numbers
may thus be reduced to 1 of the first 9 digits, thus:
11=2, 12=3, 19=10=1, 14.4-9, 999=27=9, 777=
21=3, 191S=16=7, etc.
Continuing this process, if we arrange the figures
from 1 to 19 in groups of 3, forming 7 trinities, we see
that every 4th number is an expression or further
elaboration of 1 or unity, as the following tables will
show:
These tables show
that the trinity
manifests
through 6 peri-
ods or "days of
creation" and
rests or is syn-
thesized or sum-
med up in the
7th, 19, which completes the cycle of manifestation,
or 10, bringing all back again to unity 1, but in a
higher cycle. This shows that 4 completes the 1st
series or group of numbers, from which all others are
derived, just as there are 4 fundamental geometrical
figures Q 0 from which all others are derived.
The line in ntion generates the 0 the t and 0.
And applied to solid figures the 0 generates the
sphere and cylinder, the L generates the pyramid and
the cone, while the 0 generates the cube and the
pillar.
Geometrically the figure 4 is formed by joining the
right arm of the cross with the apex, thus , which
TABLE 1. T.ArnÆ2.
1. 1-2-3 1=1
2. 4-5-6 4=10=1
3. 7-8-9 7=28=10=1
4. 10-11-12 10=1
S. 13.14--15 13=4==1(1
6. 16-17-18 16=7=28=10=1
7. 19 19=10=1
The Number 4 137
synibolizes man standing upright and holding in his
right hand the i of Divinity. The geometrical figure
corresponding to 4 is the square, the baSe of the pyra-
mid, the most stable of all geometrical forms. Hence,
both 4 and the 0 are symbols of all that is stable, en-
during and perfect upon the earth plane. In astrology
the 0 aspect is considered an evil one, symbolizing the
inertia and limitations of matter, yet it can be rendered
most fortunate if made into a Foundation Stone upon
which to build the life; the cubic stone with which
to measure and test all conditions.
The square is generated not only by the reflection
of the Trinity (Triangle) in fltter, but also
r)
by uniting the 4 ends of the cosmic cross
The ancients represented the Divine Man crucified
within a circle, hence the cosmic cross represents the
crucifixion which must take place that the Deity may
manifest in his creations. The figure of the cross is
not an artificial symbol arbitrarily chosen, for it is
not only formed naturally by the line containing all
the neutral points between the positive and negative
poles of every citcle (the equator), and crossing the
axis at right angles, thus(]), but it is also naturally
formed in the heavens by the4 bright tars of the 1st
magnitude which mark the cardinal points in the
heavens, i.e., Aldebaran (North), the Eye of Taurus
the Bull; Anes (East), the Heart of Scorpio the
Eagle; Regulut (West), the Heart of Leo the Lion,
and Fõmalhout (South), the Eye of the Southern Hsh,
or the constellation Aquarius the Man. -.
138 The Key to the Universe
As we have said elsewhere: 'It is a great mistake
to think that the cross was first brought into notice
in history during the Christian era. It was already
an ancient and sacred symbol long before any of the
Races now on earth began. In fact, it is almost im-
possible to go far enough back in the earth's history
to find a period in which this symbol was not known.1
Indeed we are told that the cross was not identified
with the crucifixion of the man Jesus during the early
centuries of the Christian era; for "no figure of a man
appears upon the Cross during the first six or seven
centuries. * * * The earliest known form of the
human figure on the cross is the crucifix presented by
Pope Gregory the Great to Queen Theodolinde of
Lombardy, now in the Church of St. John at Monza,
whilst no image of the Crucified is found in the cata-
combs at Rome earlier than that of San Giulio, be-
longing to the seventh or eighth century."
The cross is universally used to symbolize the out-
pouring of the divine, creative Life-essencethe Cos-
mic Christosthat it may manifest within the world
of creation as the creative Christ-force or that Power
which is the Urge back of and the Cause of all evolu-
tion, whether or not the blood (life-force poured out)
of a crucified man is the picture used to emphasize the
more esoteric symbology. The Egyptian cross or Tau
(-,-) had this same significance, in fact it was worn
not as a symbol of death or of human sacrifice, but
as a protecting talisman which focused a power which
would help the wearer to unfold his godlike possibili-
ties through the crucifixion of the human and the
balancing of the pairs of opposites. It was laid upon
the breast of the Neophyte when, during his Initia-
tion he was placed in a mystic sleep and laid in a crypt
or tomb for 3 days. It was also placed upon the
breast of the dead after embalmment. The Swastika
* See leuon on TA. Meavu.g of SI.. Cr.0
The NoturoS G.i,esi. Maui. I. 433.
- TheNumber4 139
or Thor's Hanuner, another form of the balanced
crossiscommonlywornasátalisman. Intheife
of the Neophyte it is supposed to bring about purifi-
cation, adjustment and balance by blows from its
whirling ends or by the hard knocks of Karma, hence
its name "Hammer of Thor." All these various forms
of the cross symbolize number 4, because Spirit cannot
penetrate matter or manifest in creation without form-
ing the cross. And man cannot become spiritualized
and enter the realm of the Divine without passing his
Initiation by balancing his positive and negative forces
through the upliftment of the lower segment of the
cross, as it rests in the mire of earth, until the upright
equals and balances the horizontal arm.
"The four arms of the X or decussated cross,
and of the Hermetic cross, pointing to the four
cardinal points * * * were well understood by the
mystical minds of the Hindus, Br2hmn and
Buddhists, hundreds of years before it was heard
of in Europe, for that symbol was and is found
all over the world. They bent the ends of the
cross and made of it their Swastika lii. now
the Wand of the Mongolian Buddhist * 0
-- and the astronomical cross of Egypt, e
are conspicuous in several apertures of the re-
mains of Palenque [State of Chiapas, Mexico,
where the ruins extend over 2S acres]. In one
of the baso relievos of the Palace of Palenque,
on the West Side, sculptured as a hieroglyphic
right undr the seated figure, is a Tan. * * 0The
position is precisely that of a Christian bishop
giving his blessing, or the one in which Jesus is
often represented while at the Last Supper. * * S
The claim that the cross is a purely Christian
symbol introduced after our era, is strange indeed,
when we find Ezekiel stamping the foreheads
of the men of Judah who feared the Lord,
with the signum Than, as it ii translated in the
Vulgate."
S. D.,, fl. sss.s.
140 The Key to the Universe
There are several forms of the cross, each having a
special significance, but all contained in and repre-
senting number 4. The form of the cross best known
to the Western world is the Latin or Christian cross,
the cross of suffering t, but crc this can become the
balanced cross +, the Greek cross or the Cross of
Masterythe sign that the Initiation is over and
Mastery wonits lower aspect mtlst be purified from
misconceptions and lifted up into a perfect balance
with its higher aspects.
While in 2 the Divine 1 is met by matter and is
crucified upon the cross thus formed, in 4 matter or
the physical plane has yielded up its experiences, and
upon them as a solid foundation man (5) stands and
reaches up into the higher realms. The expression
of the 0 in matter is the cube , but the cube
unfolded forms the cross of crucifixion, thus
The meaning of this symbology is that the cubep-
resents undeveloped man, the mere human personality
who emanated from the 1 and contains within him
the potentialities of that Divine 1. But to manifest
these potentialities The Christ must be born in his
heart, or the spiritual consciousness must be awak-
ened and unfold the cross upon which the lower man
must hang until spiritualized and redeemed in number
7. This is demonstrated mathematically by the fact
that 4 is the arithmetical mean between 1 and 7, and
4 unfolded becomes the 7, both the 4 and the 7 con-
taming the 10.
Since the physical plane is imperfect and there is
always something to be sacrificed and redeemed, the
cube is called the Stone of Sacrifice, the Altar upon
The Number 4 141
which th lower personality is sacrificed until the pairs
of opposites are balanced by the descent of. the Divine
Fire which consumes their sacriflce Therefore.if we
sacrifice knowingly and wlllinIy, the redemption is
accomplished without the suffering which the crucifix-
ion brings about for those who resist and refuse to
work with the Law.. By thus working with the Law,
(the Law of Jesus, the Law of Redemptioq through
Sacrifice), the cross is rolled up into the cube and the
Stone of Sacrifice becomes the pure White Stone given
"to him that overcometh"; the Foundation Stone to a
newer and higher manifestation; that upon which all
must be founded; the Stone which the builders re-
jected, but which is destined to become chief Stone of
the comer the Rock of Ages cleft during its mani-
festation through man and woman, but reunited when
they are united in the Divint
"Living the higher life and laying the Foundation
Stone must be a Soul choice, a response to the urge
of the Divine within you; not as a matter of policy,
because your Mends so choose or because you thereby
hope to free yourself from hampering and inharmoni-
ous conditions, but a response to the urge of the Soul
for union with the Divine; because the Soul speaks.
It is the stone upon which you must build your life;
both the inner and the outer; for if one of the corners
is lacking or imperfectly laid,, the superstructure
your life in all the worldsmust totter and fall in
ruins about you (to be laboriously rebuilt later on).
It is that quality of stability upon which may be
focused all that the Great Law shall bring into mani-
festation. This stability must be established upon the
physical plane and remain unshaken through all 'the
catadysms of life ere the Temple of the Heavenly
Man, your Divine Self, can be erected upon it. Noth-
ing can endure that is not founded on this rock?"
See St. M.uhi,, ul. 44 md I P.kr. 11.6.
See iueen The Meetd Piu.ddim.
142 The Key to the Universe
After the Foundation Stone has been laid in the
physical world it must also be laid in the mental
world, as described under number 14 in Volume II of
this work.
Regarding the circle as the limits of the cycle of
manifestation, the square circumscribed about the
circle represents the New Jerusalem of the higher
realms which becomes reflected in the square in-
scribed within the circle, or the plane of its physical
manifestation
4 is the symbol of the New Jerusalem which cometh
down from heaven 4 square, 1st in the hearts and lives
of the followers of The Christ and later for humanity
and the world. It descends as the result of the pairs
of opposites, which rule the physical plane, being
transmuted, balanced and squared. In other words 4
is all that is mundane and opposed to the Divine, made
square with it or permeated and filled with the Divine;
earth's lessons learned and the fullness of experience
garnered. The New Jerusalem is described as "com-
ing down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride
adorned for her husband." A bride is not only ar-
rayed in gorgeous apparel, but she is also prepared to
leave her old life in her father's house and through this
sacrifice blend her life with that of her husband to
make a foundation upon which their 1 united life can
be built.
4 is used in many ways in the Bs7,le and in all other
sacred scriptures, as well as in occult literature. The
Holy City must be laid 4 square, the mystical "white
stone" is square, and there are the 4 cardinal points,
North, South, East, and West, presided over by the
4 great Angels or Regents, symbolized by the 4 sacred
The Number4- 143
animals of Esekiel, Daniel and the Apocalypse, namely,
the Bull, the Uon, the Eagle and the Man.' In the
Orient these Regents are called the 4 Great Kings or
Maharajas and are related to the 4 Lords of Karma
or the 4 great Powers which make square, balance and
adjust the workings of the Great Law that love, jus-
tice, equilibrium and harmony may ultimately prevaiL
They are connected with Karma because the Law
needs physical and material agents to carry out and
execute its decrees; the 4 kinds of winds, for instance,
admitted to have their respective evil and beneficent
influences upon the health of mankind and every living
thing.
"They are the Regents, or Angels who rule
over the Cosinical Forces of North, South, East
and West, Forces having each a distinct Occult
property. There is Occult philosophy in the
Roman Catholic doctrine which traces the various
public entnmitics, such as epidemics of disease and
wars, and so on, to the invisible 'Messengers' from
the North and West 'The glory of God comes
from the way of the East', says Ezekiel; while
Jer.nthh. Isaiah, and the Psalmist assure their
readers that all the evil under the Sun comes
from the North and West"
This, however, must be understood in its esoteric
interpretation, each point of the compass having its
own occult significance and potencies. According to
the Book of Enoch: "I then surveyed the receptacle of
all the winds, perceiving that they contributed to
adorn the whole creation, and preserve the foundation
of the earth. * * * The first wind is called east-
ern, because it is the first. The second is called the
south, because the Most High there descends, and
frequently there descends he who is blessed forever.
The western wind has the name of diminution, because
there all the luminaries of heaven are diminished, and
'These zodiacal slgn.Tnsyu, L.. Scorpia and Aqnsrie..rs no
loner the cardinal ss because trougb the p..odus of ths
oquinoxea they have retrograded Isign. niak1n the signs which
tede each. J. s. Arie; Cancer, Libya sod Capnceris the cardinal
for the present see.
'S. D.. L 14)4.
144 The Key to the Universe
descend. The fourth wind, which is named north,
is divided into three parts: one of which is for the
habitation of man; another for seas of water, with
valleys, woods, rivers, shady places, and snow; and
the third part contains paradise." $
"Who are those whom 1 have seen on the four
* * * The first is the merciful, the patient,
the holy Michael. The second is he who presides over
every suffering and every affliction of the sons of men,
the holy Raphael. The third, who presides over all
that is powerful, is Gabriel. And the fourth, who will
inherit eternal life, is Phannel. These are the four
angels of the most high God, and their four voices
which I heard. * * * also beheld the four winds
which bear up the earth, and the firmament of
heaven."
"The powers and forces thus symbolized are not mere
abstractions, but are the intelligent, entitized forces so
often referred to in the writings of the Christian
Fathers as the "Messengers," "Angelic Virtues,"
"Spirits" or "Angels." Thus do the Regents of the
4 Winds, with their hosts or armies of living powers,
bring to the earth and to mankind their particular
forces, without which evolution could not be completed.
From this we learn the great lesson of unity in diver-
sity: that each Soul must work in its own way, just as
the winds accomplish their own work even though
apparently adverse."10
"The 4 beasts also symbolize the 4 corners of the
earth and the 4 Winds of Heaven. The wind, like the
breath of the physical body, is a manifestation of the
Spirit, which comes from we know not whence and
goeth we know not whither. It is said that from the
North and West come all diseases and all afflictions,
while from the East and South come all benefits. The
winds, like the breath of the physical body, are but
: k 1,twl.
"See Th 01 Åqoa,ii. Curtiu. L&8,
The Number 4 145
vehicles of spiritual powers operating on earth, through.
which the Lords of Karma bring about Their decrees,
even that which seems to be evil ultimately resulting
for the beneût of the world and its inhabitants. Just
as the signs of the zodiac have their Rulers, so do
the 4 quarters of the earth. The powers which operate
in the creations of earth are focused in these 4 car-
dinal points, or rather their Rulers manipulate certain
creative forces, both in the evolution of the globe and
in the individual. These forces being both cause and
effect arc the Law of Karma. In the spiritual life
these beasts, or Lords, symbolize the power to Know,
the power to Dare, the power to Do and the power
to Keep Silent. Without these four powers the Soul
cannot reach mastery."1 -
Eliphas Levi, in referring to these same spiritual
powers, taught that there were 4 qualities of Soul
without which true wisdom could not be attained,
namely, "an Intelligence illuminated by study (to
Know), an Intrepidity which nothing can check (to
Dare), a Will that nothing can break (to Do), and last
but most important of all, a Discretion (Keep Silent),
which nothing can corrupt"3
The ancient philosophers have been much derided
in modern times for teaching that the earth was square.
But in speaking of "the four corners of the earth" the
original teaching was not that the earth was literally
square, although later on this became the belief of
the uneducated masses. The ancients used this sym-
bolic expression to indicate the balancing and squaring
of earth conditions which is brought about by the 4
Regents of the 4 Winds. For only as earthly condi-
tions are squared can this earth become the cube or
"the footstool of God."
The 4winds are said to usher in the 4 seasons,
namely, the East Wind brings Spring, the South Wind
th lt1.eI.oIz z.. Gr s a de.aipdoa of
"Tr.iuc,,Å.rJd Mc L&vL
146 The Key to the Universe
Summer, the West Wind Fall and the North Wind the
Winter, which completes the cycle of the year. There
are also 4 phases or quarters to the cycle of the moon:
the new moon, 1st quarter, full moon and last quarter.
Hence these are 2 more instances in which 4 equals
the complete cycle 10.
The 4 winds are connected with the Lords of Karma
because it is these winds, or the forces which they
embody, which are continually bringing about the
changes and adjustments upon the physical plane
which permit the sacrifice, i. e., through the sunshine
and "winds" of spring and summer the matter of the
earth sacrifices its gross form and is lifted up into
flower, fruit and grain, there to be more perfectly
impregnated with the life-force of the sun and the
higher kingdoms, while by the "winds" of autumn
and winter old forms and limitations are sacrificed and
broken up that new and higher forms may manifest in
the next cycle. Likewise the Soul in passing through
the changing winds of Karma gathers up the spiritual
forces and the experiences from them which place its
feet (understanding) upon the square Foundation
Stone of Truth. Truth is said to be square because
only that which can be proved on all planes can
endure, i. e., only as the length, breadth and height
of it can be measured by unity, the rod of power or 10.
In the New Testament the powers of the 4 Beasts
and the 4 Winds are represented by the 4 Apostles
and the 4 Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John.
These are also the 4 Saints, Angels or Regents of the
earth, the 4 Lords of Karma who adjust the conditions
symbolized by the negative or evil aspects of the 4
Beasts. St. Matthew, "the Man from the East" (Aqua-
rius, the power to Know), is the adjuster of all con-
ditions brought about by man's ignorance. He is called
the Publican or Tax-gatherer, the Angel who levies
The Number 4 147
upon mankind tribute to knowledge, the knowledge
which shall support the rule of the Divine King.
St. Mark is the Lion (Leo), the power to Dare. By
Bible students he is called "the Interpreter of Peter,"
the Rock He adjusts the conditions in humanity
which arise from the lack, perversion or fickleness of
love, which should be the Foundation Stone of the
spiritual lif; the Rock of Intuition. St. Luke, the Bull
(Taurus) is called the Physician. As the Bull sym-
bolizes the masses of mankind who toil and labor, St.
Luke adjusts the conditions brought about by the im-
proper use or enslavement of labor. This he accom-
plishes or heals through the power of attainment
through patient perseverance, the power to Do. St.
lohn, the Eagle (Scorpio, the power to Keep Silent).
is called "the Beloved Disciple." He adjusts the ills
resulting from the stinging power of the scorpion
(sexual desire) by lifting it up above the earth to soar
in the higher realms. In other words, when the stings
of the scorpion are healed, or the lessons resulting
from the perversion of sex are learned, the Creative
Force which it symbolizes rises upward "on eagle's
wings" toward the sun and becomes Divine Love, the
beloycd of The Christ.
CHAPTER 16
TEE NUMBER 4(Continued).
"He who aspires to be a sage and to know
the great enigma of nature must be the heir and
despoiler of the sphinx; his the human head
in order to possess speech; his the eagle's wings
in order to scale the heights; his the bull's
flanks in order to furrow the depths; his the
lion's talons to make a way on the right and
the left, before and behind."
Transcendental Magic, Levi, 3k
The Pythagoreans called number 4 "the great mir-
acle; a God after another manner, a manifold; the
foundation of nature; the Key-Bearer or Key-Keeper
of Nature; the Door of the East," etc. As it was held
by them to be the Foundation of Truth 4 was the
number upon which they took their oaths. This was
to them the same as swearing upon the Foundation
Stone of the Truth.
Many ancient and modern languages have a name
for the Deity composed of 4 letters, thus the Assyrian
A dad; Egyptian Amun, Teut or Taut; Persian Syre
or Sire; Turkish Esar; Tartar Itga; Arabian Allis (or
Allah); Samaritan Jabe; Greek Theo; Latin Deus;
French Di.eu; German Gott, etc. In all these cases the
4 letters indicate God manifesting in His Works, while
the addition of another letter to the name, such as
changing Allh to Allah, Taut to Thoth, Jesu to Jesus,
etc., signifies a personal and human incarnation or em-
bodiment of that God, number 5 being the number of
human manifestation.
An ancient legend relates that when God created
the 4 Cardinal Points, He left the North unfinished.
The Number 4(Coitinuid) 149
saying: "If any be equal let him finish it." The esoteric
truth back of this allegory is that the North, through
the Pole Star, leads into a new and higher octave of
world systems, hence cannot be "finished" until all
that manifests on this planet has evolved to the point
where it can enter the new system. -
Eliphas Levi connects the 4 symbolic Beasts with
the 4 magic elements and elementary spirits as fol-
lows: "The magical elements are: m alchemy, salt,
sulfur, mercury and azoth; in Kabbalah, the macro-
prosopus, and the two mothers; in hieroglyphics, the
man, eagle, lion and bull; in old physics, according to
vulgar names and notions, air, water, earth and fire.
But in magical science we know that water is not
ordinary water, fire not simply fire, etc. These expres-
sions conceal a more recondite meaning. Modern
science, has decomposed the four elements of the
ancients, and reduced them to a number of so.:called
simple bodies; That which is simple, however, is the
primitive substance properly so-called; there is there-
fore only one material element, which' always manifests
by the tetrad in its forms. We shall therefore pre-
serve the wise distinctions of elementary appearances
admitted by the ancients, and shall recognize air, fire,
earth and water as the four positive and visible ele-
ments1 of magic."
In Genesù we find 4 mystical rivers represented as
watering the Garden of Eden, Pison, Gihon, Hiddekel
and Euphrates. Taking' Eden as a symbolic reference
to the body'of man, these 4 rivers correspond to the
4 great arteries proceeding from the heart which carry
the purified blood to the 4 regions of the body indi-
cated. The 1st river Pisonwhose meaning is "joined
together as one"which "compasseth the whole land
of Havilah," refers to the innominate artery which is
formed by the right subclavian and the right common
'For the myitic meaning of the element. se. our lemon., Th.
Element,,- .1.. Rivers of Lift ..J Death.
Traa,sced.pSaI Magic, 58-9.
IL 10.14.
150 The Key to the Universe
carotid arteries "joined as one." The meaning of the
word Havilah is "to bring forth; to form, create; to
supply strength," all of which vividly portrays the
offices of the brain and right arm and head which are
supplied by this river of blood. The river Gihon-
signifying "to run out; to burst forth into thought"
refers to the left common carotid artery which supplies
the left side of the brain and head. The 3rd river,
Hiddekelmeaning "freely flowing" refers to the
left subclavian artery which supplies the left arm. The
4th river, Euphratesmeaning to "increase; the creat-
ive power; the fruitful river," etc.symbolizes the
descending aorta, the great river of blood that supplies
the lungs and the entire body below the diaphragm,
including the creative centers. Thus the 4 rivers
"water" the whole land of Eden.' Among the Greeks
there were also 4 symbolic rivers, but these were repre-
sented as being in the nether world or the plane of
physical embodiment, namely, the Phiegethon, Cocytus,
Stys and Acheron, whose symbology we have
described elsewhere.5
The number 4 also appears in the 4 "hours" of the
day and the watches of the night; in the 4 Cherubim;
in the 4 wheels of Ezekiel; in the 4 ages of man,
infancy, youth, maturity, old age; in the 4 horses of
Neptune and in divers other places too numerous to
mention, but always carrying out the basic meaning of
a physical foundation.
In many places in the Bible we read that if anything
is taken unjustly it must be repaid 4 fold. This is not
to be taken literally, for it simply symbolizes that
the injustice must be squared or that the 4 Lords of
Karma must each be satisfied, or the adjustment made
on the 4 planesthe earth, the psychic, the mental and
'See our leuon.Th. Srf 1, Asgd.
' Rsahn, .1 she Livisg Dead. Curtis., 29-32.
For thcee interested in the problem of squaring the circle through
the use of the ratio of 6561 for the diameter, to 20612 for the circum-
ference. discovered by John A. Parker of New York, and proved to be
the ratio upon which the pyramids were built, etc., see S. D., 1, 332,
also The Mytw Thssausrsa. Whitchead, 50.
The Number 4(ConSinúed) 151
the spiritualby the synthesizing power of the Spirit
This is the key to the workings of the Law of Karma.
The Children of Israel are represented as wandering
40 years in the wilderness. A wilderness is not a
desert, for it may embrace beautiful mountains, for-
ests and streams. It is simply a region that has been
left to nature and is uncultivated. If we regard the
story of the wanderings of Israel as historically true
there are many facts hard to reconcile. The Encyclo-
pedia Britannica says: "As regards the Mountain of
the Law in particular, if the record of Exodus 19 is
strictly historical, we must seek a locality where 600,-
000 fighting men, or some two million souls in all,
could encamp and remain for some time, finding
pasture and drink for their cattle, and where there
was a mountain (with a wilderness at its foot) rising
so sharply that its base could be fenced in, while yet
it was easily ascended, and its summit could be seen
by a great multitude below. Where, then, was this
mountain ?" T
It is therefore plain that the whole story
is an allegory. The Wilderness is the natural or unre-
generate world. The Children of Israel are those of
God's people who are led out of the darkness of
ignorance and the slavery of the senses by an inspired
prophet or lawgiver, and who are following the Great
Law through the Wilderness into the Promised Land.
All the adventures described will be found to express
experiences in the unfolding spiritual life.
The 40 years are composed of 4 complete cycles of
10, in this allegory called "years," but called "days"
when referring to the 4 periods of fasting which Jesus
is .represented as passing in the Wilderness. Those
who are seeking the Promised Land and to climb the
Holy Mount must wander during these 4 cycles until
they learn 4 fundamental lessons concerning the Law
of Divine Love. In the 1st, they must learn that all
'Articic . Si..L
152 The Key to the Univeru
their unhappy experiences, be they sickness, poverty or
inharmony, are not punishments inflicted by some arbi-
trary God or Being, but are the results of their own
disobedience to the Law either in the present or past
lives. In the 2nd, they must learn that the Law of
Love can so order their physical bodies that in their
flesh they shall see God; that all sickness is the ulti-
mate result of rebellion against the Law, both person-
ally and through the race-thought In the 3rd, they
must know something of the interpenetration of the
various planes of existence, how to protect themselves
from undesirable influences from the astral plane, and
also realize their duty to themselves, their fellow men,
the lower kingdoms and elemental forcesin fact, to
all things over which man was given dominion. In
the 4th period they must pass a cycle of testing and
proving, during which all they have learned in the 3
periods is put to the test and proved.
When this same symbol is used in connection with
the 40 days of fasting in the Wilderness it deals with
a different phase. Here we find the Christ-man, who
has dedicated his life to the uplift of humanity, driven
by the Spirit into the Wilderness. Thus are advanced
Souls driven into the wilderness of the outer life by
the Spirit, through their love of humanity and their
desire to help. Once having incarnated in this Wilder-
ness, to a certain extent they forget their high mission
and find themselves fasting and alone, seemingly for-
saken. They must fast until they learn that even
though they have the power to turn the stones into
bread, still they do not live by bread alone "but by
every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God."
For the dense physical stage of human evolution sym-
bolized by the stones cannot nourish the Christ-man
until instead of being a stone it has become the Word
made flesh.
The .Nurnber:4(Co,dinued) 153
Thus they pass 4 cycles of fasting, lst.trying to feed
their spiritual hunger with the joys of the material
world, but finding that the mere possession of things
can never satisfy the Soul-hunger. Then they enter
upon a new day in which they realize the greatness
of mind and perhaps are swept away to the extreme
of declaring that "mind is all and all is mind." They
now seek in the intellectual conceptions of the mental
realm, in subtle philosophies and metaphysical specu-
lations to appease the hunger of their Souls. But
soõner or later their' Souls find that they are stilt feed.
ing on the husks and still fasting from that truespir-
itual food which alone can satisfÿ. Then they 'seek
satisfaction in the psychic phenomena which their intel
lectual search' has brought to their attention. At 1st
perhaps their hunger is appeased by the phenomena of
sances, in messages and platitudes from their departed
friends, in anything that will lift their consciousness
above the material and mechanistic concept of life.
Later this proves to be but a mental diversion, aitho
it is a training which enables them to appreciate the
real spiritual Bread of Life which must come from The
Christ within and not from without, not even from the
disembodied.' Thus they pass the 4th day or cycle in
proving that none of these things bring Soul satisfac-
tion. By this time they are an hungered," and only
then lo the. angels (messengers of God, not disem-
bodied mortals) come and minister unto them.
Many sincere students are to be found in each of
these cycles. But if they are all earnestly seeking
spiritual food they are not to be condemned or even
looked down upon by those who have taken a step
higher. Perhaps no 1, except the Soul who has reached
the 4th day, will pass through all phases of fasting in
1 life, but every Soul will pass through either longer
or shorter expressions of these periods. The -day-
154 The Key to the Universe
periods are those in which enthusiasm fills the Soul and
the things it feeds on seem all-satisfying for the time
being; the night-periods are those in which the former
food no longer satisfies and the Soul is truly hungry
and unsatisfied.
There are 4 natural classes of humanity, corres-
ponding to the 4 main divisions of the Grand Man, in
1 of which all mankind finds expression. These great
divisions or castes are not arbitrary classifications, but
are expressions of the 4 characteristic forms of human
activity. Among the Hindus the Grand Man is called
Brahma and the 4 classes are said to have sprung
from his body as follows: from his head sprang the
natural teachers, philosophers, scientists and priests
(Brahmans); from his arms sprang the natural war-
riors, soldiers, rulers and executives (Kshatriyas);
from his body sprang the natural husbandmen, per-
veyors and merchants (Vaishyas), and from his feet
those whose attainments fit them only for mechanical
and manual labor (Sudras). While this is a natural
classification of human activities and social life, which
is as easily discernible in the Western world as in
the Eastern, in the East it has been greatly over empha-
sized, greatly abused and degraded by hard and fast
lines of cleavage which in their practical workings do
not permit the entering of a higher caste from a lower
through demonstrated ability and merit, altho such
opportunities were always open in the earlier ages, and
still are theoretically in India today.
It is unphilosophical to talk about the equality of all
men, if the term is used in the usual sense of uni-
formity; for there is no such thing as equality or
uniformity in the manifested universe. Every single
expression of life is an expression of an individuality
that is different from every other expression. Only
in the realms of the undifferentiated is there uniform-
Tue Number 4(Cõntinued) 155
ity. As soon as differentiation begins uniformity is
destroyed and individuality reigns. It is true that in
their Divine Essence and as equally precious expres-
sions of the 1 Life, also in their divine possibilities, all
men are equal and hence should have equal opportuni-
ties to express their Divine Essence and achieve their
possibilities. But they are not equal in the degree
of their expression of their divinity, nor in the degree
of their attainments. The Law is "Unity in diversity,"
but never uniformity.
There are 4 chief -stages in the civilization of man.
The most primitive form is th Nomadic. In this stage
man wanders from place to place in search of food
and without any settled place of abode. His food is
only that which nature produces without any effort on
his part, and which she offers him for the t2lring, L e.,
fruits, nuts, game, etc. This is the stage of irresponsi-
bility. Each day satisfies its own needs, hence no
thought is taken or provision made for the futur . The
welfare of the self reigns supreme. In this rudimen-
tary stage of intellectual and spiritual unfoldment
man's highest conception of the Divine is as a mighty
and ever-successful Hunter.
The 2nd stage is the Pastoral. In this stage man
has grasped the idea that he can secure his food more
easily by taming animals and raising them in flocks
and herds than by having to hunt an individual animal
every time he 'needs food. While he is still more or
less of a wanderer, changing his abode with the needs
of his flocks and herds, yet he is more settled than in
the Nomadic stage; for his wanderings are only within
a limited area. Aitho little provision is made for the
future, except to prepare for and take advantage of
the seasons, still responsibility, forethought and the
beginnings of unselfishness are being developed. In
156 The Key to the Universe
this stage man's highest ideal of the Divine is as a
tender and loving Shepherd.
As the pastoral wanderings or migrations become
more restricted man establishes a corral for his herds,
founds a more permanent home and begins to culti-
vate the soil. Thus he passes into the Agricultural
stage, founds a permanent home, accumulates posses-
sions not easily kept under tents or transported in
caravans, and begins to cultivate the arts. In this stage
responsibility must be assumed, forethought taken and
preparation made for the next year's crops. Also
since provision must be made for his family and domes-
tic animals during the winter season, man is forced
to develop more unselfishness by providing for others.
In this stage his ideal of the Divine is that of an Hus-
bandman or loving head of the household or Father,
and his idea of heaven is a mansion in the skies, a
home in a blissful realm of perpetual summer, with
singing, dancing, etc.
Overgrowth of population in a ffxed position neces-
sitates a division of labor, hence there next ensues the
industrial period which evolves into the Scientific
stage. Man now realizes that no individual can live
his life to himself alone or without considering and
affecting others. He therefore begins to develop co-
operative efforts for the best good to all, altho still
giving full scope for the expression of individuality
within the unity of the whole. As such co-operation
requires greater individual responsibility and still
greater unselfishness on the part of the individual, in
this stage unselfishness reaches its highest expression.
"Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay
down his life for his friends." $ In this stage man's
highly developed intellect and spiritual unfoldment
shows him that the physical world is but an imperfect
materialization of that which is inunaterial, hence his
5*. Joke. xv. 13.
Tue Number 4 (Continued) 157
ideal of the Divine is as an all-pervading and life-
giving Spirit whose Urge to Manifest the Ideal is the
cause of all manifestation and all evolution, that the
manifestation and the ideal may become 1 or complete
its cycle by returning to its Source.
Let number 4 remind you always to be honest and
"square," with your fellow men, with yourself
and witIi God. Determine that you will, give others
and yourself a "square deaF'; that you will face and
"square up" all mistakes, faults and failings, and thus
lay your Foundation Stone that your future life may
be founded on the Rock of Truth and be stable; that
even though you find this world but a wilderness, and
so-called religious teachings but stones, and the voice
of the tempter ever in your ear, nevertheless, being
firmly established upon your Foundation Stone of
Truth, you know that you have within you the power
of The Christ to conquer and make square all con-
ditions
CHAPTER 17
THE 4TH LETrER, Daleth (i)
"He produced t)aleth, and referred it to Fer-
tility; He crowned it, combined and formed with
it the Sun in the Universe, the third day of
the week, and the right nostril of man."
Sepher Yetiirah, 22.
The 4th letter is Daleth (D), the 3rd of the 7 double
letters. It is combined with the sun and referred to
fertility. The sun has a double aspect in that while
in its positive aspect it is the fructifying power which
stimulates fertility, in its negative aspect it scorches,
kills, produces putrifaction and causes the opposite
of fertility or sterility.
Daleth is called the "womb," for it is the feminine
1st Cause, just as Aleph or number 1 was the mascu-
line 1st Cause. In Aleph the Divine is incorporated
in man as Adam; in Beth it finds its home or rest in
the feminine Principle, Eve; and in Gimel we have the
son .r offspring. In another sense Aleph represents
man, Beth the home of his Soul and Daleth the off-
spring. Hence in the 4th letter we return again to
the 1st creation, for 4 10= 1.1 Therefore Daleth
is both the womb and a door which was opened only
after the 1st creation, for during the 1st, 2nd and up
to the middle of the 3rd Race the sexes were not
separated. conditions of physical life were so hard
and strenuous that it was only the positive, forceful,
masculine aspect of humanity that could fight its way
into manifestation and maintain itself. By the tim.
'See pegs 136, Table 2.
The tk LeUe,, Daleth 159
the 4th Race was reached conditions had so evolved
and modified that woman was able to.maintain herself
as a separate being and become the foundation (womb)
for the succeeding Races. The Greek form of Daleth
is Delta t, a triangle resembling a tent door.
Per ths dctaiIs of this cbaiige see V. of L. cbapters xv emil zviL
Paptss
St. Germoin
EGYPTIAN
THE 4TH TAROT CARD
TRE EROR
MEDIEVAL
Smith
MODERN
I 6
lÇi
The tb Tarot Card, The Emperor 161
TIlE 4TH TAROT CARD, The Emperor.
The 4th Tarot Card is called "The Emperor." It
agrees with the letter Daleth, which as we have seen
is both the womb of nature or the rejuvenated earth
fructified by the sun. that it may bring forth, and is
also the offspring or that which is brought forth. This
4th card expresses the same symbology in that here
we find the active aspect of all that the 3rd card
expressed in passivity.
Here we see a man seated upon a cubic stone, on
1 side of which is carved a" eagle with outstretched
wings. The stone is the square Foundation Stone
which must be established both in the individual and
humanity crc the Emperor can take his seat and rule
his domain. The fact that he is seated indicates that
he is established, at rest and. ruling in the midst of the
4 winds, the position of his legs forming the figure 4
or the completion of the foundation, the establishment
of man on the earth plane. The eagle is the power of
sex uplifted or Scorpio transformed. The eagle as
a symbol of 1 of the 4 cardinal signs indicates freedom
and aspiration, the true freedom which has risen out
of the limitations of sex and drawn its creative force
from the sun. That it is engraved on the cubic stone
indicates that only where man and nature are squared
can the Spiritual, Sun become the creator; only when
the New Jerusalem comes down from heaven 4 square
will we find no night there, for the Law of thy Good
shall be the light thereof.
The scepter bearing the sign of Venus 9, which
the Emperor holds in his right hand, symbolizes, his
ability to rule both the force within himself and within
his empire (the world) through the Venus-power of
Love. Being held in his right hand shows that it is
the active, vivifying principle that is being used. In
162 The Key to the Universe
his left hand he holds a globe surmounted by a bal-
anced cross, symbolizing that it is through the power
of the balanced cross that he rules. Also, being held
in his left hand shows that only through the feminine
power of Love can he balance Spirit and matter and
gain the power to rule the globe. The Emperor is
bearded, and upon his head is a helmet containing 12
points. This is man's Crown of Life, subject how-
ever at this 4th step to the forces operating through
the 12 signs of the zodiac.
THE 4TH COMMANDMENT.
"And on the seventh day God ended his work
which he had made; and he rested on the sev-
enth day from all his work which he ha( made.
And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified
it: because that in it he had rested from all his
work which God created and made."
Genesis, ii, 2-3.
Since the study of numbers reveals the fact that 4
is the Number of the Physical Plane; of Stability; of
the Foundation Stone upon which our spiritual struc-
ture must be reared, we are not surprised to find the
4th Commandment dealing with the 7th day, whose
ruling planet, Saturn, is the planet which expresses
the characteristics of number 4.
"Remember the sabbath day to keep it holy.
Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work;
but the seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD
thy God."
Exodus, xx, 8.
We might well expect the 4th Commandment to
apply solely to man's physical well-being. Yet while
its literal interpretation is valuable as an hygienic
measure, its meaning cannot be relegated entirely to
the physical plane, for it has correspondences on all
The 4th Commandment 163
planes. The 7th or Sabbath day, the day of rest after
the 6 days of labor, should not be confused with the
1st day of the week's activities, Sunday, the Lord's
Day. It is a misunderstanding of terms and a desire
to exalt the day appointed for worship in the new dis-
pensation that has led the Christians to combine the
day of rest with the 1st day, their day of worship,
while the Jews adhered to the 7th day.
The term Sabbath is derived from the Hebrew word
for rest, Shabbath, a day that was observed in com-
memoration of the day on which God rested after the
6 days of creation, i. e., the 7th day. In the Gospels
the term Sabbath always indicates the 7th or day of
rest, the Lord's day remaining quite distinct until the
3rd century. The dictionary tells us that: "In the
middle ages Sabbath always meant Saturday. Accord-
ing to the elder Disraeli, it was first used in England
for Sunday in 1554." And since we know that the
6 days of creation are symbols for 6 vast evolutionary
periods, so must we look for a symbolic meaning for
the 6 days of labor.
Each day of the week has its characteristic powers,
forces and significances which should be observed.
These are quite as distinct as the forces manifesting
during the various seasons, and va7 according to the
characteristics of the Planetary Deity ruling the day.
In the 4th Commandment we are dealing with the day
of rest after the 6 days of activity, Saturday or Sat-
urn's day. In 1 aspect Saturn is the same as Cronus
or Time, and is represented by a 0 or a serpent
swallowing its tail. Saturn is also the Ruler who rep-
resents stability, repose, rest, and also form. If we
remember that Saturn is spoken of as "Alpha and
Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the
last," we will see at once that the 1st and 7th days
represent the 2 extremes of the same force, or the
164 The Key to the Univerte
head and tail of the serpent, which must meet to
close the cycle or circle. Time ultimately brings about
a literal, altho often perverted, manifestation of every
symbol and esoteric truth. And as we draw toward
the close of this present cycle we find in the Western
world the meaning of the 7th day literally swallowed
up in that of the 1st. But both are necessary if we
would progress. The serpent needs a tail as well as
a head if we are to lift it up into a Rod of Power. If
the head is allowed to swallow the tail it indicates
lack of progress, for it forms a closed circuit around
and around which we will circle perpetually. But if
both head and tail have their proper places we can
lift up the serpent's head and form a spiral, along
which we can enter a higher plane and a new day of
experience and expression.
The Sun's day or the Lord's day is the day in which
the Lord or Law sends forth the Divine Light of the
1 God into manifestation. This must be preceded by
Saturn's day, both because the Q must precede the 1,
and because the quality of poise, rest and stability
must have manifested in the 0 crc the Creative Dot
could appear and attract around itself the materials
from which the 1 was to manifest and evolve the uni-
verse. Being the Sun's day, the 1st day of the week
should be sacred to letting the Light shine; to active
effort to correlate or establish our oneness with the
Divine Ray of the I God which has shed its Light
into the darkness of our life's orbit or 0. We
should be as active, positive and potent in this as was
the Dot in manifesting the 1. In other words, the
1st day of the week should not be a day of rest like
the 7th, but should be filled with such spiritual and
other activities as shall help the Light of the I God
within us to shine forth; as shall aid the more perfect
- -ThE 4th Co,maipgdment 165
manifestation of the Law of our Good. This is our
1st duty in beginning the 6 days of labor.
Saturn is described as the 1st Planetary Deity to
go forth from the bosom of the Tnfinite, that he might
establish the boundaries of the 0 within which the
universe was to manifest, and create the stability
upon which the subsequent manifestation might rest
and upon which the forces of the other Planetary
Deities might focus t6 bring about the subsequent
evolution. Hence Saturn is called both the Initiator
and the Tester who determines the degree of stability
of our foundation before each advance is attempted.
His force will necessarily be the last to return because
the laws of stability must be maintained until the Dot
has evolved through the gamut of all the numbers and
has expanded to the limits of the () and fulfilled
its cycle of manifestation. The command to rest and
acquire stability is therefore an imperative and funda-
mental Jaw of every form of manifestation, for it
represents the completion of a certain phase or cycle
of activity. Just asGod rested on the 7th day and
contemplated all that He had created and saw that it
was very rood, so must we in a corresponding way
for there is but the 1 Law back of all creationhave
a period of rest, silence and meditation at the close of
each cycle of activity. This rest must not be merely
a change of occupation, but must be a period of cessa-
tion from all outward activity; a holy calm, a sacred
meditation, during which we contemplate all that we
have created during our 6 days of activity. This period
of rest and self-examination should be observed not
only at the close of each weelç, but at the close of
each day and at the close of each year. It should not
be filled with sighs and regrets over our failures and
shortcomings, but should be filled with a high resolve
and an earnestdeterminafion to create more perfect
Las V..! I. 332.
166 The Key SO the Universe
manifestations during the ensuing pçriod of activity.
And this rest, meditation, recuperation and earnest
determination will prepare us for the activities of the
Lord's day, i. e., positive, spiritual creation.
"In it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor
thy sdn, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor
thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger
that is within thy gates. For in six days the Lord
made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in
them is, and rested on the seventh day: wherefore
the Lord blessed the sabbath day and hallowed it."
On the Sabbath day not only should we rest from
outer activity, gather up the experiences, ratify all
that is good in them and build their force into Soul-
growth, but we are commanded not to allow any of
our creations to work. Our Sons and daughters here
symbolize the creations of our positive and negative
aspects of thought. The manservant and maidservant
symbolize the positive and negative acts or work of
our hands which serve or accomplish for us. The cattle
refer to the lower animal self with all its attendant
animal desires. All these are good, useful, even
necessary, and should be fed, cared for, trained and
used in their proper field of activity for the general
well-being of the household. But upon the 7th day or
period of completion upon which the Soul enters, all
these animal desires, as well as our sons, daughters
and servants, must rest or cease their activities.
"Thy stranger within thy gates" refers to all those
outside influences which sway or influence us. They
are the thought-forces and opinions of the community,
for instance, which to a certain extent we must admit
within the gates of our consciousness during the 6
days of labor. If we are to be a positive influence for
good in our community and be centers of love, peace
and harmony in our environment we must pay a cer-
The 4th Co,mnandment 167
tam amount of attention to the conventionalities, and
entertain as guests or strangers, according to the rules
of our householdour standards of life and conduct
the ideals and thought-forces which we must admit
within our gates. In other words we must practice
tolerance without subservience. The strangers within
our gates do not receive the same treatment as the
sons and daughters or the servants and cattle, nor are
we responsible for them to the same extent; only for
the way we entertain them. On this 7th or Saturn's
day, therefore, we must see to it that all these activi-
ties of our household shall cease. In other words, by
the time we have reached our Sabbath, or the 7th great
cycle of our manifestation, and in a lesser degree at
the close of each 6 days of activity, we should have
been able to so correlate with the force-of Saturn that
we have established a Place of Peace, of stability and
rest, a firm foundation upon which to stand and meet
Saturn in his aspect of the Tester; so that we can
stand still, poised, undismayed and at rest while the
creations of our 6 periods of activity are being scanned,
weighed and judged. When we have attained this
point in our development Saturn is no longer the grim
Tester and Reaper, but is the Initiator who shall admit
us into a higher world of consciousness. The 1st step
is to follow the 4th Commandment and observe the
Sabbath day and keep it wholly, in our outer as well
as in our inner lives, and prepare for active worship
on the Lord's day.
Man has 5 physical senses and has 5 corresponding
days in which to exercise, labor with, develop and
satisfy them and thus gather all their lessons for the
Real Self. But there are 2 higher senses which man
as yet has not developed which correspond to the days
which precede and succeed the 5 days of activity. Man
can reach his Great Sabbath or period of perfect rest
168 The Key to the Universe
and stability only when he has developed these 2
senses. But to develop them he must follow the rules
laid down and arrange for definite periods of rest,
relaxation, silence and meditation.
All growth and development proceeds in rhythmic
ebb and flow or cyclic periods of activity and inactivity,
day and night, summer and winter, etc. Saturn's day
is the period of rest at the turn of the tide. Like the
boundaries of the 0 it sets limits to the periods of
activity. It is like the arm of God reached out to
force all things to observe periods of rest, as the
night forces us to cease from physical labor, for with-
out it all would soon become exhausted. The positive
aspect of the life-force cannot be absorbed, whether
from our food or in other ways, while the organism
is tense in active work. All is then expression, giving
out, it even being injurious to work directly after a
hearty meal. Therefore, to renew our forces for
another period of activity, a period of relaxation and
rest is a vital necessity. At some time during our
cycles of manifestation, even in the minor cycle of
day and night, we must enter the Silence and renew
our forces. If we refuse to do so voluntarily, say by
remaining awake and active during night periods, we
will soon lose our life-forces, and ultimately great
Saturn will compel us to enter upon a period of inac-
tivity that is so long that the organism from which
we have withdrawn cannot maintain itself, and we,
therefore, call this period of enforced rest and silence
physical death.
On the contrary, when we have mastered the Silence
and acquired its power, when we are able to keep the
Sabbath day wholly, we can renew our life-forces,
revivify and re-create our bodies periodically little by
little and not be obliged to take the longer period of
rest, and to re-create an entire new body in another
The 4th Conmzandment 169
incarnation. Through voluntarily entering the Silence
and properly applying its forces, we can gradually
change the outer personality so that it 'will continually
express our stage of spiritual unfoldment At a
corresponding period the personality would therefore
be quite as different and express quite as great spiritual
advance as though we had been forced to leave it and
take our rest in the grave and then built up a new
body. In other words, if we properly correlate with
Saturn. through the Silence, and conquer him as the
grim Reaper, we. cpu rem2in incarnate cycle alter
cycle by re-creating the organism in accordance with
the necessities of each new period. In fact this is
actually done by those who have entered the higher
stages of Mastery and developed the 2 higher faculties,
yet who still desire to retain a physical vehicle. But
of course to one who has-attained such control of the
life-forces, the mere possession of a physical body does
not confine him to the physical plane, nor 'does it make
the flesh an earthly prison house. This is the great
truth back- of the doctrine .of Regeneration and liii-
mortality in the Flesh.
The Sabbath day, therefore, means a period in which
we are to rest, meditate and enter into oneness with
all creation; to vibrate in unison with all planes of
manifestation; to commune with the 1 God, the union
with whom is the object of our evolution. Therefore,
the Law blesses this period and ballows it or makes it
holy, fòr it enables us to enter into oneness with the
whole.
CHAPTER 18
THE NUMBER 5.
"Let us note one more thing in relation to the
mysterious number Five. It symbolizes at one
and the same time the Spirit of Life Eternal
and the spirit of life and love terrestrial * * * in
the human compound; and, it includes divine and
infernal magic, and the universal and the individ-
ual quintessence of being."
The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, II, 612.
"There is but one temple in the Universe, and
that is the body of Man. Nothing is holier than
that high form. * * * We are the miracle of
miraclesthe great inscrutable Mystery."
Lectures on Heroes, Carlyle.
After the Foundation Stone has been laid 4 square,
the number 5 must next be considered. This is the
most deeply occult of all the digits, and few grasp
its full significance and what it stands for in their
evolution and accomplishment. S is the Number of
Humanity and symbolizes man in a 2 fold aspect,
for man stands at the apex of physical evolution, the
crowning point of all the lower kingdoms, and the
forerunner and image of God, or stands midway
between 1 and 10. "Man is the universally structured
type. In one aspect all lower types rise toward man
and are completed in him. * * * Moreover, man is
the only species that stands erect, with cerebrum poised
at right angles to the spine ;the only species with a
spoken language, an alphabet, a recorded history, and
a prospective future." Being composed of the 2 and
the 3, number 5 shows that in humanity the terrestrial
and the Divine meet and blend.
'TAO Row,asscs of Rsvftsioss Througt. NanwcS Hðaovy, Edward
The Number 5 171
By occult addition 5 equals 1±2+3_1 4 I 5=15.
Number 15 is sometimes called the devil, but by
occult, reduction 15=1+5=6, the Number of The
Christ-force, the antithesis of the devil. Therefore, as
number 5 man stands midway between The Christ and
the devil.2 Also number 5 is composed of 2 equal parts
with 1 in the middle, thus: 2-1-2 or man and woman
co-equal, with the Divine 1 life as the balance or
equalizer of both.
Number 5 is composed of 4 and 1 or the foundation
of nature and the divine 1 Life manifesting through
it. This points to man's true constitution, for he
contains within him, even in his physical body, all the
principles and forces to be found in manifested nature,
and during his intra-uterine life passes through stages
analogous to the various kingdoms of naturevege-
table, fish, reptile, animal, up to the human. Hence
man is a synthesis of the macrocosm, the squaring of
all the forces or 4. But he is also the, direct intelligent
agent of the 1, or God's representative on earth.
Thus number 5 means man, but man standing upon
and dominating the lower, the physical, the human,
and reaching up into the higher realms, the Divine.
For the number 5, like man's 5th Principle, mind, is
dual. It belongs both to the lower square and to
the higher triad. It is man with his 2 feet planted
firmly upon the Foundation Stone on earth, but with
his head in the heavens. His feet have 5 toes each
because without the dual aspect of his S senseshis
understanding of the physical planethe foundation
upon which he stands would be imperfect
His 2 hands symbolize his dual power of accom-
plishing through the higher joined to and dominating
the lower. The 5 fingers on each hand symbolize the
fact that to be complete or balanced man must manifest
2 fives and become 10. For only by using both his
'See Thi Xe, .1 Dgstiii,. Curtiaa. £bapter, my to zxviiL
172 The Key to the Universe
hands can he accomplish his perfect work. He has 2
hands because he must accomplish on the physical
plane, by dealing with and using the pairs of opposites
according to the Law of Duality, and by their use be
about his Father's business, in workshop, field, office
or home, even as Jesus is said to have worked in his
father's carpenter shop. But at the same time he must
work out and accomplish his higher mission in helping
on the evolution of all the kingdoms, and hence the
planet itself.
With 1 hand he can reach up and take the hand of
his Father-in-heaven and accomplish in the higher
realms, and at the same time he can reach down with
the other and help on the evolution of the lower king-
doms, thus uniting Spirit and matter in humanity and
becoming the Universal Mediator.
5 is the number of the planet Mercury, ruler of the
Intelligent Principle in man. This is symbolized by
the winged Messenger of the Gods, representing the
power (thought) which enables man to stand in the
center of the universe and either send his thought down
into the depths or soar into the highest realms cogni-
zable by man. So does number 5 stand in the center
of the numerical system.-1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 6, 7, 8, 9being
the only number which is not paired to produce 10,
thus: 1+9=10, 2+8, 3+7 and 4+6 all equal 10,
leaving 5 unpaired, it forming 10 only when joined to
another and complementary S. As 10 is the number
of a complete cycle, this proves mathematically that
man or 5 can never complete his cycle of evolution and
spiritual attainment until his number has been doubled
or until he has found his true counterpart or comple-
inent. The same truth is revealed in the Bible
allegory in which the pairs of birds and animals were
brought to Adam to be named, "but for Adam there
was not found an help meet for him," $ until he was
G.s.au. 11. 20.
- Tue Number 5 -_ 173
doubled or until he had found his equal. This again
shows that man stands at the middle point of evolu-
tion, overshadowing and influencing, the kingdoms
beneath him, as he is overshadowed and influenced by
the kingdoms above him. Therefore, just as each of
the other digits can be paired to make 10, while 5
remains alone, so Adam had to rpmin alone until his
equal was evolved. This is a mathematical proõf of
the equality of the sexes. The'true man, like number
5, is composed of the masculine and feminine prin-
ciples, for 5 is made up of the masculine 3 and the
feminine 2. On this account the Pythagoreans taught
that number S rules marriage. Number 5 is called
the Number of 'the Heart because it stands unpaired in
the center of the dede (10) as the heart stands an
unpaired organ in the center of the body.
5 is also called the Beam or Balance since, like the
heart, it stands at the center of the cross formed by
the upright body and the outstretched arms. This
indicates that 1 important object of man's evolution
is to attain balance upon the cross of matter, for
The Christ in him must be crucified upon this cross
until balance is attained. Again man is the Beam
through which the Scales of the Universe, Spirit and
Matter, must be balanced. "The ancients had a maxim,
'Pass not above the beam of the balance,' that isbe
not cause of injury; for they said, let the members in
a series form a Balance Beam. Thus when a weight
depresses the Beam, an obtuse angle is formed by the
Depressed side and the Tongue verticle, and an acute
angle on the other. Hence it is worse to do than to
suffer injury, and the authors of injury sink down to
the infernal regions, but the injured rise to -the gods.
Srnce, however, injustice pertains to inequality, equali-
zation is necessary, which is effected by addition and
subtraction." But reference to number 5 as the
'Numb,,:.. Wcsttt. £0.
174 The Key to the Universe
Balance Beam has a far greater significance than
appears on the surface, for it, again refers to man's
place at the mid-point in the scale of evolution, where
he must not only gain balance within himself, but must
become the Beam by which the lower kingdoms shall
be lifted up, weighed and matter redeemed by the
power of The Christ working through him. The same
idea is expressed frequently in the Bible, much import-
ance being given to a just balance, "Just balances,
just weights, a just ephah, and. a just hin, shall ye
have."5 The book of Job being but an allegory of
Initiation, Job is made to say: "Let me be weighed in
an even balance, that God may know mine integrity."
Indeed this is what Initiation does. Hence to obtain
the higher Initiations we must seek balance and not
be tossed hither and thither by the pairs of opposites
(the 2) but balance them through the power of the
Divine (the 3) within. "A false balance is abomina-
tion to the Lord (the Law); but a just weight is his
delight."7 When king Beishazzar, the last king of
Babylon, was judged, the 5 "fingers of a man's hand
wrote over against the candlestick upon the plaister
of the wall of the king's palace; and the king saw the
part of the hand that wrote. * * * And this is the
writing that was written * * * MENE; God hath
numbered thy kingdom, and finished it. TEKEL; Thou
art weighed in the balances, and art found wanting.
PERES; Thy kingdom is divided." $ Thus the division
of man's kingdom is ever the final result of an unjust
balance; for through an unjust balance the pairs of
opposites sweep man away from the LI of the Divine;
the 3 and the 2 are separated and his kingdom is
divided; the earthly (4) is separated from the
Divine (1).
Among the Greeks the number 5 was held so sacred
that on the lintels of their temples where the numerals
-
'L.vcwi xix, 36. 'Proverb:, xl. 1.
'J.b. ml. 6. Povwi,v,S,26.74.
The Number 5 175
were carved, tbe number S was inlaid in pure gold.
This numeral was also carved on an amulet and worn
around the neck by the Greeks and Romans as a pro-
tection against evil spirits.
5 refers to the 5 sacred words--corresponding to
the 5 sacred words of Brahmasaid to have been
written upon the shining garment of Jesus at his glori-
fication, namely, "Zonuz Zama Ozza Rachoma Ozai,'
which is translated "The robe, the glorious robe of my
strength." The reality back of this symbol is that num-
ber 5 represents the S mystic powers which must be
attained and manifested through the robe of flesh by
every resurrected Initiate after he has passed his 3
days in the tomb, ere he can attain the Great Initiation
symbolized by the resurrection of Jesus. These 5
mystic powers are the resùlt of the unfoldment and
use of man's 5 senses upon the inner planes of con-
sciousness. Today the true use of man's senses is as
it were covered with a veil, so that only in exceptional
cases is 1 here and there able to extend the functioning
of his senses to the inner worlds. Clairvoyance, while
often called a 6th sense, is but the extension of the
sense of sight to include the astral world, clairaudience,
the extension of hearing, psychometry, the sense of
touch, etc., taste and smell being generally overlooked.
But this is only drawing aside 1 corner of the veil, for
when man dons "the glorious robe of his strength" he
will find the functioning of his senses extended as far
beyond the astral as the range of a color is extended
by the multiplication of its shadings. And out of the
synthesis of all these extended senses there will be
evolved a new or 6th sense which will be incompre-
hensible to the man who is confined to a more limited
use of his senses, and from the perfection of the 6th
sense a 7th will be evolved. It is to the experiences
of these higher worlds, reached momentarily during
176 The Key to the Universe
periods of meditation and contemplation, which St.
Paul alluded when he said they were "unlawful (1. e.,
impossible) to utter" or express in words.
The body thus glorified through the 5 powers is
called the Robe of Initiation. Unless the Neophyte
has donned this Robe, and manifested its powers in
the flesh, the Great Initiation has not been passed.
These powers become 7 only after the robe of physical
existence has been laid aside and the Soul has donned
the glorious, immortal Body of the Resurrection, the
Seamless Robe of Jesus, called the Nirmanakaya
Robe, or the Body of the Fire-breath. In other words,
man is the Lord of Creation when he has woven the
5 mystic powers into his body and donned "the glorious
robe of his strength." But when he has donned the
Nirmanakaya body he has become more than man. This
should give the student a glimpse of what ultimate
Mastery means, yet it should not discourage him; for
we see the miracle being foreshadowed every day ir
momentary glimpses and visions of the higher worlds,
and we have the prophecy given us in symbolic dreams.
Man or humanity has 3 divine offices or functions,
Prophet, Priest and King, and 2 physical expressions,
male and female, through which the divine functions
must be manifested on earth crc perfection is attained.
As he transmits the Will of the Divine to earth he
becomes the Prophet in the true meaning of the word,
i. e., "one who speaks as the inspired representative
of a divine Being or interprets the divine will." As he
mediates between the lower and the higher and holds
out his hands in blessing he becomes the Priest; and
as he rules himself and all the lower kingdoms he
becomes the King who is Lord over all. As long as
man instills enmity, cruelty and antagonism into the
lower kingdoms by his ruthless slaughter of birds and
animals for sport, etc., and slays his fellowrnen in war,
The Number 5 177
the lower kingdoms will retaliate. The curse which
God is represented as plal4ng on the lower kingdoms
when man was turned out of Eden was in reality a
prophecy of the Karma which man must continue to
reap from the lower kingdoms because of the forces
he places upon them, his resulting suffering and death
slowly bringing about an awakening to his true heri-
tage, i.e., his power as Priest to bless all kingdoms.
And vei1y just. as the curse has operated and still
operates today, so shall the blessing, until some day
man shall find himself King and Ruler over all the
kingdoms of earth.
CHAPTER 19
TEE NUMBER S(Continued).
"The Fifth Group of Celestial Beings is sup-
posed to contain in itself the dual attributes of
both the spiritual and physical aspects of the
Universe; the two poles, so to say, of Mahat,
the Universal Intelligence, and the dual nature
of man, the spiritual and the physical. Hence its
number Five, doubled and made into Ten, con-
necting it with Makara, the tenth sign of the
Zodiac."
The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, I, 241.
The celestial sign Capricorn, which is today the 10th
sign of the zodiac, is composed of 28 stars (28=2+
2=10), grouped in the form called the goat, and
symbolizes this number 5 in its dual aspect. This is
the most mystical, yet the most illuminating sign of
the zodiac when we learn to correlate with its forces,
for it shows man how to become the Lord of Creation.
"The Ffth Order [of Celestial Beings] is a
very mysterious one, as it is connected with the
microcosmic pentagon, the five-pointed star, rep-
resenting man. In India and Egypt, these Dhyanis
were connected with the Crocodile, and their
abode is Capricornus. * * * It becomes the
task of the Fifth Heirarchythe mysterious
Beings that preside over the constellation Capri-
cornus, Malcara, or 'Croceodile', * * * to inform
the empty and ethereal animal form, and make
it the Rational Man. * * * The Crocodiles
in the celestial Nile are 5, and the God Toom
* * * calls forth these Crocodiles in his fifth
creation."1
In olden times Capricorn was called Makara, the
fishman or the crocodile. Even today its symbol is a
goat with the body of a fish, another glyph for man's
'S. D.. 1. 254; U. 613.
The Number 5(Conthuðéd) 179
power to swim in the depths, yet climb the loftiest
peaks. It is the leviathan mentioned in Job (xli),
which emerges from the depths at the beginning of
every cycle, climbs to the highest point of attainment
and returns to the depths at the close of the cycle. Ma
means 5 or man and kara means a hand, hence Makara
means the hand of man, his power to reach up and
accomplish that unto which he puts his hand. The
hand of man distinguishes him from all other animals,
it being far more developed than that of the apes. It
is not only the organ by which he accomplishes today,
but it contains the record of all that he has accom-
plished in the past and a prophecy of that which he
can accomplish in any 1 incarnation. "I will write my
law upon their hands."
What is true of the individual is correspondingly
true of the Races. We are passing through the 5th
Great Race and are still within the shadow of the 5th
sub-race. Bearing in mind the possibility of every-
thing symbolized by number 5 becoming the over-
shadowing power and dominating that which is phys-
ical, also its dual nature by which it can reach up into
the Divine, we can grasp the significance of evolution,
and especially of this cycle through which mankind
is passing today. A glance at history will show us
how man or humanity has dominated the lower king-
doms; how he has mastered the elements as they work
in and through himself and nature. He has delved
into the earth and bwught forth her treasures. He
has harnessed the lightning and with it girdled the
earth. He has made the flame his servant, and has
traveled through the air. He has accomplished all this
because he is man, the 5th creation; because he can
reach up above the things of earth and enter the higher
realms. Just as the half terrestrial and half aquatic
animal Makara is supposed to dwell in the sea or climb
180 The Key to the Universe
to the mountain tops, so can man sink himself beneath
the sea of illusionthe material worldor climb to the
heights of spiritual attainment.
"The great warrior race of India, the Sikhs, wear
5 articles whose names begin with K. Kes, long hair;
Kaugha, a comb; Kripan, a sword; Kacith, short draw..
ers, and Kara, a steel bracelet." 2 They have S Essen-
tials in their religion, namely, (1) Simplicity of belief,
worship, life; (2) Salvation for All; (3) Unworldli-
nessto be in the world but not of it is their glory;
(4) The Name, the repetition of the sacred name
Wahguru, and (5) Meditation, "They who meditate
on God are emancipated." Their 5 virtues are con-
tentment, compassion, piety, patience, and morality.
The 5 deadly sins are lust, anger, covetousness, worldly
love, and pride.
The mystic wandsaid to have been used by Moses
and Aaron and all Initiatesis described as a rod with
a 5-pointed star at its end (Fig. 6) with which it is
Pig. 6
said all magical ritesboth white and blackare per-
formed. Before this magic symbol of the pentacle
' TA. R.1gwi. oF tA. Sihks Field. 26.
The Number 5.(Conthiued) 181
every elemental force must bow. -According to Eliphas
Levi: "The empire of the will over the astral light,
which is the physical soul of the four elements, is
represented in magic by the pentagram. * *
The pentagram signifits the domination of the mind
over the elements, and by this sign are enchained the
demons of the air, the spirits of fire, the phantoms of
the water, and ghosts of earth. Equipped with this
sign, and suitably disposed, you may behold the infinite
through the medium of that faculty which is like the
Soul's eye, and you will be ministered unto by legions
of angels and hosts of fiends." But this must not
be taken to mean that by the mere possession of this
mystic ymbol.aIl these things can be brought to pass.
For while the symbol is indeed potent, still only as man
recognizes his divinity and unfolds the cube within
and is crucified upon its cross, can he become both
magician and the true talisman. Man himself is this
pentacIe for with his hands out-stretched, his feet spread
and his head erect, he forms the 5-pointed star
Standing upon the Foundation Stone of Truth, with
his hands upraised in praise or outspread in blessing,
and with his head to interpret the reports of his 5
senses, he must perfect his manhood and dominate ali
the kingdoms. But he must begin by dominating
hihiseif, instead of oppressing and dominating his
fellow man and the lower kingdoms.
The flames, which are said to issue from the S points
of the pentacle on the end of the wand, are the powers
inherent in the perfected body, the glorious robe of
man's strength. For when the 5 senses of man are
illumined by Divine Fire, they will radiate the spiritual
powers by which he can perform all the miracles of
Tr..,c.sJ.l,2 M.gði. 61.
182 The Key to the Universe
Moses the Lawgiver and Emancipator. The mystic
significance of this symbol is that as man, through his
spiritual development, lifts up the fiery force of the
Kundalini power which functions through the spinal
column (the rod), and with it flaming forth from his
5 extremities and illuminating his 5 senses (the pen-
tacle) on all planes, he becomes indeed a magician,
capable of performing either white or black magic.
The flaming pentacle also represents man's uplifted
hand with his magnetic force streaming from his 5
fingers. The flaming pentacle is but another version
of the truth symbolized by the parable of the 5 wise
virgins who kept their lamps trimmed and burning,
while the pentacle reversed refers to the 5 foolish vir-
gins who could not enter in.
The Roman general, Antigonus, who was beheaded
by Mark Antony after the former's raid into Syria
with the Parthians in A. D. 40, is said to have encour-
aged his troops on 1 occasion by telling them that he
had been shown a pentacleregarded as a symbol of
power, success and safetyin a dream. In the worship
of Dionysos or Bacchus, the leaves of ivy and the vine
were used in symbolic decorations, both leaves being
shaped like a somewhat flattened pentacle.
Since the pentacle represents man, its reversalthe
1 point down and the 2 points upis a symbol of black
magic, for this would place man's head and hands on
the earth and his feet in the air. This would symbolize
man focusing his 5 God-powers downward on the
lower planes; on himself instead of on the Divine, and
proceeding downward instead of evolving upward;
using his head to scheme and his hands to pull down
that which is uplifting and helpful, as he grasps for
self at the expense of others, instead of blessing and
uplifting all. His feet in the air would indicate man
trampling God under foot and making his own intellect
Tke Number 5(Contsnuéd) 183
(feetunderstanding) his God. In thus turning his
powers downward he perverts both life (3) and love
(2). In other words, the pentacle reversed symbolizes
man immersed in self and aspiring toward self-ag-
grandizement instead of toward selfless union with
nature, his fellow men and with the Divine. Therefore
never reverse this symbol, especially when worn upon
the person as an ornament
While by reversing this magical symbolas is inten-
tionally done by black magicianscertain results of
a diabolical character may be attained no black
magician seeking merely for phenomena or personal
power has ever or can ever truly enter into man's
heritage of power. Eliphas Levi, although assuring
us of the potency of this symbol and at the same time
stating that the position of the points is of no conse-
quence, nevertheless, as a result of such reversal, ac-
cording to his own descriptions, passed through suck
experiences as the ordinary student could not endure
and retain his sanity and which even Levi could not
think of without a shudder. Such diabolical experi-
ences, while possible as a result of the perverted use
of magic, are no more a necessary part of man's
higher development than the ferocity and antagonism
of beast, the deadliness of reptile, the poison of herb
or the devastation of storms and cataclysms, are a
necessary part of the phases of his physical develop-
ment. once created and brought into manifestation,
however, they are utilized by the Great Law to awaken
man to the necessity of seeking for a higher and more
Divine power than that of his mere human intellect.
All such things ultimately work for good in that even
through suffering they teach man that he creates and
evokes ill through his misuse or perversion of his
God-powers. All the sin, suffering, disease, antago-
nism and unbrothcrliness manifesting in the world
184 The Key to the Universe
today are the result of man's reversal or perversion of
the sacred pentacle, 1. e., himself and his powers.
In The Voice of the Silence we read of the 7 portals
which lead the aspirant across the waters "on to the
other shore," an7 the mystic keys which open them.
The key which opens the 5th portal is "the dauntless
energy that fights its way to the supernal Truth, out
of the mire of lies terrestrial." Without this energy
which knows no defeat, all his powers would remain
dormant. In other words, it takes dauntless energy
and clear seeing for man to balance in himself the
extremes of the pairs of opposites, called here "lies
terrestrial"; for it means being absolutely true to his
Real Self, fixing his gaze upon the Divine L whose
light alone can illumine the lower self and show him
how to attain a just balance. This energy is quite as
necessary in his spiritual unfoldment as it is in the
accomplishments of his physical life.
Let number 5 and its symbol, the pentacle, remind
you 1st that man is both human and Divine; that he
stands to the lower kingdoms as a God, to bless or
curse in proportion to the degree to which he finds a
just balance and metes out just weight to all things.
Hence at the entrance to the Path of Attainment
stands the injunction, "Man, know Thyself," for only
as man knows his divine powers and his mundane
pairs of opposites, and has earnestly gathered up all
that he finds in the lower self, and has resolutely cast
it into the crucible, that it may be purified and harmon..
ized by the Divine and brought to perfect balance in
him, can he truly know himself. Let it also remind
you that as man you stand in the center of your uni-
verse and are responsible for your use of the powers
which enable you to rise to the heights of spiritual
attainment or sink lower than the beasts.
With this necessary prelude, try to realize that
Fragment. IlL
The Number (Continued) 185
within you there is this divine, magical power of
accomplishing; of ruling yourself, the earth and the
lower kingdoms, and of knowing the secrets of Nature.
But, beloved students, remember that this can be ac-
complished only by laying 4 square the mystic Foun-
dation Stone in your heart and lives, and upon it
focusing the forces which you would use; for without
this foundation the forces you seek to use will tear you
in pieces and the structure of your lives wfllfall in
ruins about your heads, like the man in the Gospel who
built his house upon the sand instead of upon the
Rock of Truth. Your magic wand, with its pentacle,
must 1st be pointed inward upon the Stone and made
to dominate yourself crc you can, stand upon -your
Foundation Stone and dominate in the higher realms.
Begin then today to realize your- magical possibili-
ties. Realize that your power is commensurate with
the use you make of it. While you use it to oppress,
degrade or dominate your fellow men, or for selfish
purposes, it is mercifully limited, but when lifted up
upon the wand of spiritual aspiration, and filled with
the flame of love, ardor and fervor to accomplish the
mission of The Christ, there is no limit to its possi-
bilities. Realize that while there is 1 dark corner in
your personality which you refuse to make obey your
magic wand, by just so much is your power curtailed.
You are glued to that spot, whatever it may be, until
you .have become its ruler. How can you look for
spiritual power or expect to penetrate into the 6th
realm when you have not dominated the 4th? when
you have not laid your Foundation Stone 4. square and
cannot dominate yourself? Again we say: "Man,
knowthyselfr
CHAPTER 20
THE 5TH LETIER, He (fl).
"God produced He, predominant in speech,
crowned it, combined it and formed with it Aries
in the Universe, Nisan (April) in the Year, and
the right foot of Man."
Sepher Yetzirah, 24.
The 5th Hebrew letter is He, 1 of the 12 simple
letters. It corresponds to the zodiacal sign Aries
and with the function of the breath in its relation to
speech. As we have learned that number 5 wherever
found refers to man or humanity in some aspect, so
the 5th letter represents man as distinguished front all
other animals. For while He is the Breath of Life
which is shared by all animals, yet only man has the
principle of Intelligence (Aries, the head) so well
developed that he can use the breath to formulate and
express his ideas in intelligent speech. While all ani-
mals have some form of intelligent communication,
still only man has the power of speech.
He, however, expresses more than the breath which
forms speech. Its greatest and most important mean-
ing, and the 1 which was generally used by the He-
brews, is in its relation to the renewal of life. Physi-
cal breath alone cannot accomplish this. It can pro-
long physical life somewhat, but is incapable of renew-
ing it until it is consciously combined with the psychic
breath, in which case it at once becomes the mediating
principle between God and man, and between man and
nature, also the link which attaches body to Spirit.
Hence He is not only breath, but vitalized and spirit-
ualized breath.
The 5th Lette!, Hi 187
The sign Aries, which is here referred to the 5th
letter, is the crown-sign of man, ruling the head.
While we are told that "out of the abundance of the
heart, the mouth speaketh," yet if man did not mani-
fest his supremacy in his position at the head of the
animal kingdom through the use of his head and the
power of speech, he could not maintain that position.
In the letter He, as in number 5, we find man or
the microcosm considered as a vehicle for the expres-
sion of the forces of the macrocosm; again the link
between God and Nature.
He is also called a Window in that he who has
mastered the mysteries of the breath can look with
clear eyeswhich are the windows of the Soul.
through the prison house of flesh and the limitations
of matter and behold the glories of the heaven world.
It was this letter He, corresponding to our letter H,
that was added to the names of both Saral and Abram
to make them Sarah and Abraham. And by the
bringing forth of their son Isaacmeaning laughter
the life of both was renewed and prolonged. Later
on Abraham was commanded by the Lord (the Law)
to offer up as a burnt offering his renewed life, joy
and laughter (Isaac). Indeed, many of us think we
are called upon to make the same sacrifice when life
seems to demand that we give up that which is most
dear to us. But after submitting to the decree and
passing his test Abraham found a ram (Aries) caught
by its horns (powers of the head) in the thicket to
take the place of his child of promise as a sacrifice.
Thus will we always find that when we are willing
to make the sacrifice which the Law seems to demand,
after we have passed the test interiorly we will not
have to make the sacrifice outwardly, for we will find
a substitute at our right hand.
The ram symbolizes the head and its powers which
188 The Key to the Universe
are caught in the tangle of intellectual misconceptions
which have resulted because man has been misled by
the speech of those who have misinterpreted the Law
(Lord), so that the physical mind or rational, human
consciousness cannot see the Angel of Truth standing
before the altar upon which we must place our sacri-
fice. Yet as a result of the cry which bursts from our
hearts as we bind our Isaac upon the altar a new vision
is vouchsafed to us. We open our eyes and see the
ram and realize that it is the misconceptions of the
head and the perversions of our powers which we
must lay upon the altar that they may be purified by
the Fire of the Law. We will then understand that
it is this ram that must be the real sacrifice that it may
become the lamb which was slain from the founda-
tion of the world, that its mystical "bloed"symbol-
izing the spiritual life-force.might be given freely
for the renewal and regeneration of all. This inter-
pretation may seem vague and mystical to some, but
to those who are real students of mysticism, i. e., who
have been able to correlate to some extent with the
ever hidden springs of Being, there will be no difficulty.
Another interpretation is that the ram represents
the powers of man's head caught in the thickets of
worldly conditions where life itself makes him the
victim of his use of speech.
Just as Aries leads the signs of the zodiac, so does
the letter He become a leader, and so in turn must the
masculine force of intellect be the power which shall
lead the flocks of masculine thoughts and feminine
intuitions into the green pastures and beside the still
waters. Just as the ram tears down the underbrush
with his strong horns and makes a path through which
the sheep and lambs may reach the tender, succulent
grass which grows under the brush, so should the
intellect tear aside afl hampering conceptions, over-
The 5th Letter, Ii 189
come mental difficulties and lead the thoughts where
they can feed upon the tender manifestations of Divine
Love and Compassion which are growing unseen
about the roots of the outward conditions. Yet the
intellect should always be ready to sacrifice itself at
the dictates of the Law as revealed through the Wu-
mined heaxt.
Papist
THE 5TH TAROT CARD
THE POPE
MEDIEVAL
, kLb
LS PAP
St. Ce,mi.
EGYFTIAN
SmsA
MODERN
The 5th Tarot Cord, The Pope 191
ThE 5Tu-Tzor cåan, The Pope. -
The 5th card is called the Pope or High Priest. It
represents an Initiate into the Mysteries seated be-
tween the 2 pillars of the sanctuary. This symbolizes
that to become an Initiate man must find a perfect
balance and rule his spiritual life while sitting at rest
between the 2 pillars Jakin and Boas, Justice and
Mercy, or the masculine and feminine aspects of sex.
Another meaning of Jaldn and Boas is that the right
hand pillar represents the Law, the left hand pillar
Liberty to obey or disobey. Both are necessary to
uphold the Temple of Humanity and to sound the
sacred word, for obedience through compulsion can
never bring freedom. Man must deliberately choose
to obey. Hence, only as man finds this seat and
chooses to sit in it and rule, can he understand and
fulfill his office of Priest
In his left hand he holds erect the triple cross. This
is the Rod of Power by which he can penetrate into
and rule the 3 worlds, and with poise, equilibrium
and a calm understanding utilize the powers entrusted
to him to bring forth on the 3 planesphysical, mental
and spiritual. As ruler of the 3 worlds he wears the
triple crown. His right hand forms the sign of Eso-
tericism and is raised in blessing over the heads of 2
kneeling figures, symbolizing that when the spiritual
man has taken his seat as priest and ruler of the life
he will bless both the masculine and feminine expres-
sions of humanity which bow in reverence before him.
THE 5TH MMANDMENT.
"Honor thy father and thy mother: that
thy days may be long upon the land which
the Lord thy God giveth thee."
R,odut xx. IZ
192 The Key to the Univqrse
To take this Commandment literally is to play sad
havoc with all occult teaching; for are we not taught
that the aim of evolution is to rise above the bondage
of physical existence, i. e., to accomplish our work in
the Grand Plan, help our fellow men and spiritualize
our bodies and the planet on which we dwell, in as
short a time as possible? Why, then, should we be
enticed into paying filial respect by what, from an
occult standpoint, is an empty promise, namely, that
our days of pilgrimage and travail here on earth
should be lengthened?
While exoterically filial respect, honor and obedi-
ence to parents is a positive virtue which should early
be inculcated, for it is sadly lacking in present-day
children, still by the illumination of the Inner Light
we see that to take this merely as a literal command
to simply honor the man and woman who supplied us
with a physical vehicle in which to incarnate, would
not give us its true meaning. For in the case of
bodies conceived in lust and sin and brought into the
world sick, deformed, mentally deficient and physically
cursed from birth, little honor is due the parents,
except for affording us an opportunity to work out
the past Karma which drew us to them for incarna-
tion.
Since 5 is the Number of Humanity, while we can
personalize this Commandment we must also consider
it in its universal aspect. The Father of humanity, the
Father of all, is the active or Positive Principle of
the Godhead; that active Principle which ever cleaves
the darkness of Chaos when the gods say: "Let there
be light." The Mother of humanity is that mighty
Passive Principle which gathers up the Light as it
penetrates Chaos and cherishes it in her bosom. It is
forever the tender, brooding Mother-force which
works on the germs of good in all things that they may
The Æth Comnsandme,it 193
ultimately bring forth that good It is That unseen
Mother-love. of the Godhead, hoverTng like a dove
overits nestlings, which feeds with "food convenient
for us" every hungry heart, even if that food be seem-
ingly. bitterto the taste; theunseen agency whiCh,
when the fury of the tempest has spent itself and the
sun shines forth, brings out the purifying effects. It
is that mysterious force of healing which makes every
wound, be it of the physical body, the mind or the
heart, tend to heal, unless infected by man's interfer-
ence, through his wrong thoughts, impure emanations
or evil creations. It is that love which makes Time
the great healer of all woes, the soÓther of all sorrows,
the adjuster of all inharmonies; that brings sunshine
after rain, laughter after tears, and joy, deep and abid-
ing, 'after sin, sorrow and repentance. In fact, it is
the Illumination produced by the Light, the effect of
its shining. Therefore, to honor the divine and living
Father-Mother forces is to recognize that humanity is
not mere
"Dunth lriven cattle * * *
Whose hearts like muffled drums are beating
Funeral marches to the gray;"
but children of the Divine Father-Mother, who must
correlate with and obey their divine parents.
The "land" which the Law of thy Good hath given
thee is an abiding place in the field of manifestation,
and a work to do in the Grand Plan of Redemption.
Therefore, in so far as you make your life an honor
to God and The Christthe Divine Incarnation in the
flesh of the Son of the Father-Motherby giving
honor and obedience to the divine laws, so shall you,
in your immortal Divine Self, be long with or con-
tinue to work consciously with the positive and nega-
CHAPTER 21
TUE NUMBER 6.
'Magical equilibrium is expressed in the Kabalab
by the senery. "Considered in its first cause, this
equilibrium is the will of God; it is liberty in
man, and mathematical equilibrium in matter.
Equilibrium produces stability and duration.
Liberty generates the immortality of man, and the
will of God gives effect to the laws of eternal
reason."
Trw sce,sdc.bI Magic, L&vi, 756.
Number 6 is primarily the Number of The Christ-
force in natùre, the force back of evolution. It is the
Number of Unrest and Incompleteness in that it rep-
resents the unrest of nature incomplete and ever be-
coming, ever striving for perfection, ever changing
form that The Christ-force may manifest more per-
fectly. The Christ-force is the spiritual creative
power back of the universal Urge Toward Perfection
which is inherent in both nature and man. As we
have said elsewhere :1 «It is a spiritual emanation from
the godhead, the Son of God, or the godhead in its
creative aspect; that mystic Power or Principle which
fructifies and animates all manifestations of life. It is
the Divine Creative Force, a great stream of life,
giving, creative Essence which manifests in all things
on all planes as the Animating Principle of the One
Life. In Nature it is focused in and through the
physical sun, for only as the sun pours out its life-
giving, fructifying powersheds its symbolic blood
can the One Life manifest in the various forms of
Nature and evolve them to perfection. In the physi-
cal universe it is the same Animating Principle that
Sic lesson The Myjðc Chia.
196 The Key to the Universe
flamed out from the godhead in the beginning when
the Elohini said: 'Let there be light.' And it is this
same mystic, creative Light which must enter the
Chaos of your outer life, even as it did the Chaos of
the solar system, ere your life can begin its conscious
spiritual evolution. All the physical and mental evo-
lution is but a preparation for this new and higher
step. Withess Paul's confirmation of this view: 'For
God, who commanded the light to shine out of dark-
ness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of
the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus
Christ.' "2
Number 6 therefore shows that the cause of all evo-
lution is the Urge to Perfection inherent in every liv-
ing thing. This urge results in the conscious adapta-
tion of the organism to its environment, in contradis-
tinction to the so-called scientific theory that evolution
results from blind and mechanical reaction of the or-
ganism to its environment. This inherent Urge
Toward Perfection is symbolized by the geometrical
formation of the figure 6 itself. In the vertical line I
we have the 1 God, the 1 Life, etc., coming down to
manifest within the 0 of the microcosm, man, thus:
that it may inform, fructify and evolve all the
germsoflifewithinit. TheOof the 6 mayalsobe
considered as the microcosm which contains all man's
uninanifested God-powers, while the line running up-
ward symbolizes the unrest and aspiration of the Soul
which is determinedly reaching up and endeavoring
to manifest ever greater degrees of Divinity. It is
also the Ladder of God, the Antaskorana along which
the angels are continually descending and ascending.
The 6th Principle in man is Buddhi or the Soul-
principle which cannot rest until it finds its spiritual
borne and reaches the perfection of manifestation in
'II Covi,ÅbAo,j. iv. 6.
animal man to unfold into the cross
The Number 6 197
number 7. Great as is number 5, it is but the prepa-
ration of man for number 6, for in number 6 we have
a higher principle (Soul) added'to the merely human
(5)just as the human was added to the merely ani-
malthe "breath of life" which makes him "a living
Soul" and Divine, instead of allowing him to remain
merely a human animal. It is the inner urge of this
Soul-principle toward perfection of unfoldment and
expression that causes the 6 sided cube of the purely
or tree
upon which the spiritual man must be crucified in
matter until the lower square of the unfolded cube
has been lifted up or indrawn and the cross has been
balanced. Man cannot be at rest until he has become
1 with the Animating Principle of nature, and recog-
nizes that the same creative Principle works in him
to bring forth perfection as it does in Nature.
That 6 is the Number of The Christ-force is con-
firmed by the number symbolism of the Gnostics as set
forth by Marcus. "After 'six days,' that is to say, in
the seventh stage since the disciple first set his feet
upon the path, he ascended into the 'mountain'a
graphic symbol for the higher states of consciousness.
* * * The six (the arakz,t) being thus of the same
essence as the World-mother (Wisdom) contains es-
sentially in himelf the whole number of all the ele-
ments or powers. * * * Again, it was on the
'sixth day,' the 'preparatioà,' that the divine economy
or order of things, manifested the 'last man,' the 'man
from heaven,' for the new birth or regeneration of the
'first man'-or 'man of earth'; and further the passion
began in the sixth hour and ended in the sixth hour;
198 The Key to the Universe
when the initiate was nailed to the cross. All of which
was designated to indicate the rower of creation (in-
ception) and regeneration or rebirth (consummation).
typified in the number 6. * * * Again, the spoken
or effable name of the Savior, Jesus, consists of 6
letters, while His ineffable name consists of 24. * * *
Again, at the baptism there descended upon Jesus
* * * the dove, which soars again to heaven, its
upward course completing the Jesus (cc 6) and mak-
ing him into the Christ (or 12), the enformation ac-
cording to knowledge, or perfect illumination."'
Much has been said about the coming 6th sub-race
into which we are now entering and in which the seed
of the 6th Great Race shall be sown, and we look
forward with great expectation to its accomplishments,
but to comprehend that which shall be we must con.
sider the significance of the various Races. In the
5th Race man reaches the point where he is above the
mere physical, animal man (4), and is the human (5),
with the power to dominate. But at this point in his
evolution he has also the power to reach out to number
6 and begin to contact 6th Race powers. During the
4th Race man struggled through the astral world, and
by his psychic powers and the lower aspects of mind
dominated and enslaved the lower kingdoms. During
the 5th Race man has been learning to dominate the
lower kingdoms through the use of his magic penta-
cle and is reaching up into the 6th or Christ-power.
During the 6th Race he will evolve and ultimately
dominate through spiritual power. Even today man
is grasping the ideal of dominating as a Soul rather
than as a king of the physical world. Ultimately
there must come the Super-man, who shall dominate
the physical and reach up into the higher realms and
find his fulfillment in the 7th Race. Number 5 is the
sign of accomplishment, number 6 the struggle toward
Frgw.j*g f a F.sb F,rgeU.n. lLcad. 37044.
The Numbe.6 199
a higher accomplishment, and number 7 the Crown of
Attainment.
6 is the Number of Toil and Labor, also the Great
Work which each Soul must accomplish. "Six days
shalt thou labor, and do all thy work," says the Com-
mandment. The Children of Israel gathered their
manna during 6 days of the week, but none on the
7th. "In 6 days the Lord (Elohim) made heaven and
earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested on
the seventh day."
Remembering that the word Lord refers to the great
Law governing the manifestations of The Christ-force,
we at once grasp the significance of these 6 days of
creation. Their symbolism is given by Êliphas Levi
as follows:
1st day of creation. "The light splendid and radi-
ant, Unity (No. 1)."
2nd day. "The firmament, or the necessary separa-
tion between Spirit and form, between the fixed and
the volatile, between the heavens and the earth
(No.2)."
3d day. "Germination of the earth under the influ-
ence of the heavens. Germination begins with the
revelation of the ternary (No. 3)."
4th day. "The Sun and the Moon rule over the
day and the night. Division of the seasons by the
quarternary. Primitive quadrature of the circle
(No.4)."
5th day. "Life manifests itself in the bosom of the
elements; constitution of the kingdom of man in the
number five (No. 5)."
6th day. "The earth and the fire respond to the air
and the water and give their living animals; the tri-
angle which is the reflection of that of Jehovah forms
itself in the soul of man and God says to him: 'facinius
l Ezodiit. z. U.
200 The Key to the Univecse
hominem,' for man must share in his own creati
(No. 6)."
7th day. "On the Seventh day God rests; that is,
the Septenary, being the perfect number, there remains
nothing to be done after it (No.7)."
He also gives the symbolism of the first 6 chapters
of Genesis as follows:
1st Chapter. "The unity of God manifests and
sums itself up in the unity of man (No. 1)."
2nd Chapter. "God completes man by woman, and
intelligence by the law (No. 2)."
3rd Chapter. "The serpent interposes as a third
between innocent man and woman. God interposes
as a third between guilty man and woman (No. 3)."
4th Chapter. "Adam and Eve begot Cain and Abel
and from two they became four (No.4)."
5th Chapter. "Humanity sums itself up in the per-
son of Seth, who is the heir of Adam and Eve in the
place of Cain and Abel: one becomes the synthesis of
four; It is the five in its whole power (No.5)."
6th Chapter. "Creation of political and religious
humanity; beginning of the antagonism between the
Sons of God and the children of men (No. 6)."
7th Chapter. Noah and all his household rested in
the ark for 40 days and 40 nights ere the raven was
sent forth. "And the ark rested in the seventh month,
on the seventeenth day of the month, upon the moun-
tains of Ararat." (No. 7).
"Can you believe that all this is found thus arranged
by chance? and do you imagine one can understand a
single word of the Bible without the key of the sacred
numbers?"
Not only did the Great Law create the earth, the
sea, the heavens and the material universe, but that
same Law is continually creating the same conditions
both in nature and in man. Is it not the incessant
'UsIisNi'kd L.f*.va of tiipMi 14v.
The Number.6 201
working through matter of the same Christ-force that
creates (evolves) out of the seed the tree? Out of
the bud the flower and fruit? And in man, out of his
fleshly desires spiritual aspiration? Out of a dense
physical body a Spiritual Body? AU as a result of
the godward Urge to Perfection? And the Law will
continue thus to work as long as number 6 prevails;
for number 6 is Incompleteness, and the Great Law
will rest only when the 7th day dawns, i. a., when there
is no more incompleteness, hence nothing to work
through. Therefore the Lord (Law) blessedthe7th
day and hallowed it. This blessing is the result of
work accomplished, the blessing of rest and satisfac-
tion. All things that are completed are hallowed by
the very fact of their completion. We toil over a task
and when it is done and well donewhich is the
meaning of completenesswhat a feeling of perfect
satisfaction is ours! We not only. rest from our labor
outwardly, but within we rest in the hallowed content
iat comes from a tak accomplished.. Hence number
7 is always a time of hallowed rest, a blessin of ac-
complishment, and it is the Law which brings it..
It was also on the 6th day that man was created in
the image of the Elohim. The Elohim are none other
than,
"The 'Sephiroth of Construction'the 6
Dhyn Chohans, or Mantis, or Prajâpatis, syn-
thesized by the seventh 'B'raisheeth,' the First
Emanation, or Logos, and who are called, there-
fore, the Builders of the Lower or Physical Uni-
1
verse, all belonging Below. These Six
6
whose essence is of the Seve,stJ,, are the Upadhi,
the Base or Fundainentp.l Stone. on which the oh-
202 The Key to the Universe
jective Universe is built, the Noumenoi of ail
things. Hence they are, at the same time the
Forces of Nature; the Seven Angels of the Pres-
ence; the Sixth and Seventh Principles in Man;
the spirito-psycho-physical Spheres of the Sep..
tenary Chain, the Root Races, etc."'
In the vision of Enoch he tells us that the 6th gate
of heaven is at the East. "The sun now returns to the
east, entering into the sixth gate, and rising and set-
ting in the sixth gate thirty-one days, on account of
its signs." At that period the day is twice as long
as the night In other words, the 6th gate or number
6 represents the period for labor or, as Enoch called it,
the 6 "hours" or the period for work. It is the long day,
twice as long as the night, in which evolution struggles
for perfection. And since the life-force manifests in
a spiral, if we take a spiral having 6 turns we find that
at the 6th turn the line representing the outgoing
force is twice as long as that of the previous turn.
The idea of connecting number 6 with Labor and the
working forces of nature is well illustrated in the
structure of the bee and the ant, which are important
factors in evolution and the most widely accepted sym-
bols of industry and systematized labor. Bees, wasps
and ants, which all belong to the same family, are
recognized as being 6 structured, being made up of
mandibles, 2 pairs of wings and 3 abdominal seg-
ments, the head being classed as 1 of these. They
also have 6 legs. The social instincts and industrial
habits of the ant have made a great impression on the
minds of men in all ages. Solomon tells us: "GO to
the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways and be
wise." Both the bee and the ant are said to have
come to this planet from Venus, and in the Greek
legend of Cupid and Psyche-which is the story of
the Soul (Psyche) in its struggles through matter, its
's. D. 1,402.
' Bo.h .f E..ch 4.
Remaikabis Shut thi. Is found k lbs 6th Chapter aad 6th Verse .1
*vmvb&
The Number 6 203
eduction by mortal love (Cupid), and its final purifi-
cation through incessant labor (6) and sufferingwe
again find the ant. When Venus gave Psyche seem-
ingly impossible tasks to perform, the 6 legged ants
same to her assistance and by their industry and pa-
tient perseverance ultimately performed every task
even though Psyche had to descend to the infernal
regions and wrest from Prosápine the secret of her
beauty.. Proserpine, who spent half her time among
the gods and the other in the nether world as the wife
of Pluto, represents nature. Hence the secret which
the Soul must wrest from nature is the secret of the
ever-working, rejuvenating and active power of the 1
Life. The Christ-force or number 6.
CHAPTER 22
THE NUMB 6(Continued).
aThe Sixth Group (of the Dbyani,) rem
almost inseparable from man, who draws from It
all but his highest and lowest principles, or his
spirit and body; the S middle human principles
being the very essence of those Dhyânis.
The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, I. 342
Hence it is that the elementals of the 4 elements or
nature-forces emanating from the 6th Group, each
appear to man's inner sight bearing the imprint of the
number 6 as the seal or signature of their Group, just
as man's bodr bears number 5 as the signature of the
Group by which it was fashioned. The figure 6 borne
by the earth elementals or Gnomes is small, short,
aquat,verYtbickandblack,thus:0l; that
borne by the water elementals or Undines is
larger, taller and in double outline instead of
solid, thus:
fO'O'; that borne by the air
elernentals or Sylphs is vety
with wavy double outlines, thus:
and slender
while that
borne by the fire elementals or Salamanders, as seen
in a flame, is composed of many vibrating ethereal
lines having a curl or hook at the bottom thus:
It must be understood that just as Man's
The Number 6(Co,Uisimed) 205
body suggests the 5 pointed star and hence number 5,
so do the bodies of the nature sprites suggest the
number 6; for number 6 dominates them and their
structure, even more completely than number 5 domi-
nates man in his 5 extremities, 5 fingers, 5 toes, 5
senses, etc. Also, if we take the product of these 4
kingdoms of nature we still have 6, thus, 4X6=24:6.
This is another proof that 6 is the Number of Na-
ture, for it is through the activities of the elementals
of those 4 great kingdoms that The Christ-force is
evolving nature toward perfection. It is this inces-
sant activity, labor and change of form that connects
number 6 with suffering and woe such as befell at the
opening of the 6th Seal of the Book of Life,1 also at
the sounding of the 6th Angel,' the pouring out of the
6th Vial' and the 6 periods of war with the Beast.
The geometrical symbol of number 6 is the inter-
laced triangles or the 6 pointed star , called
by the Hindus the Sign of Vishnu, and by the He-
brews the Shield of David, often mis-called the Seal
of Solomon. Among the Egyptians it was the sym-
bol of generation, the union of fire and water, the male
and female. Among the Pythagoreans it was called
the Hexad or "the perfection of parts," and with them
was also a symbol of creation. The Neo-Pythagorean
philosopher Nichomachus called it "the form of forms,
the only number adapted to the Soul, the distinct
union of the parts of the Universe, the fabricator of
the Soul, and also Harmony." The interlaced trian-
gles symbolize the triune God reflected by His crea-
tions, or God in man and nature. "The trinity of
nature is the lock, the trinity of man is the key that
fits it" It also symbolizes the 6 Creative Groups,
the 6 powers of nature, the 6 planes of consciousness
$ R.,d.*. vi. 32.
- Rmi.i... xvi. 32.
R,VVJ.tiO Ix, 13. - 'Ia. Uøv.ilsd. 1svstaky, II, 435.
206 The Key to the Unèverse
and of evolution, and the 6 Principles of man, all of
which are synthesized in a 7th.
Since man is a microcosm, the interlaced triangles
or number 6 must ever manifest in him. The Kabal-
ists call it the Supreme Triangle and its reflection.
The Supreme Triangle they said was composed of
Necessity, Liberty and Reason, referring Reason to
Kether, Necessity to Chockmah and Liberty to Binah.
The triangle reflected in man they designated Fatality,
Will and Power. "Fatality is the inevitable sequence
of effects and causes in a determined order. Will is
the directing faculty of intelligent forces for the con-
ciliation of the liberty of persons with the necessity of
things. Power is the wise application of will which
enlists fatality itself in the accomplishment of the de-
sires of the sage."'
The pointing upward symbolizes Siva, fire, light
and heavenly powers, also the Divine Trinity or upper
triad in man, ever evolving upward after its incarna-
tion in matter, seeking more perfect expression; the
source of aspiration in man. The 2 lines of force,
Law and Will, descending from the focus above
(apex) and spreading out to include the base line,
indicate that man is overshadowed by and included
within the Divine, also that he can receive the positive
and negative forces from above and correlate (unite)
them on the physical plane or base line. The upward
pointing triangle also symbolizes the stability and poise
which man can attain when he looks to the Divine
Trinity within.
The downward-pointing triangle 'Ç7 is dark, sym.
bolizing the waters of Chaos in which the Divine Germ
(Vishnu and the hosts of the lower worlds) is laid,
also the instability of man's lower nature, "unstable
as water." This triangle symbolizes that the 2 ascend-
ing lines of force can ascend from their focus (apex)
'Tr,uw,sde,Å,Å Mgic, L&vI, 6.
Th Number 6(Consisu.d) 3)7
on earth and reach up to and embrace the Divine. The
interlaced triangles therefore symbolize the reflection.
of the Divine completed and man assuming his respon-
sibility. For only by the perfect blending and balanc-
ing of the 2 natures, human and Divine, can man at-
tam Wisdom and Perfection. In other words, man.
can attain Wisdom only as he can correlate his con-
sciousness with both the realm of the Divine and with
the realm of nature, whose symbol is 6.
According to the Kabalah the 1st trinity is called the
Macroprosopus and the 2nd trinity, making up the 6.
the Microprosopus, the 2 constituting the Va5t and.
the Lesser Countenances. The Macroprosopus is all
brilliancy and da'zling light, while the Microprosopus
or lesser countenance shines only by reflected light.
Thus must the 2 triangles, the Light and its reflection,
be interlaced to form the 6 pointed star, the symbol of
the macrocosm.. The 6 days of creation correspond to
the 6 forms of the Microprosopus. The 6th Sephira
is called Tipherash, beauty or mildness, the divine name
EIOaII Va-Daath, and the angelic names Shinaniin and.
Melakim. This 6th Sephira completes the 2 trinities
the 1st, the divine Father-Mother-Son, the 2nd, Power-
Greatness-Fortitude, also Strength-Beauty-Clemency.
Being the reflection of the Godhead on earth, these are
magic forces which manifest through the interlaced
triangles. In short, the Divine Reality back of this
mighty sym'ool is that when the God attributes are not
only reflected but interlaced and balanced in manes
life, he becomes a mighty magician and all the forces
within himself and nature must obey him. While this
symbol has a certain power in itself, its full potency
is manifested only when its dual forces are inter-
blended and used to bring forth The Christ-man in the
life.
The early Christian church gave a somewhat dif-
208 The Keip to the Umverse
feresit n11ing to the :. God, considered as
the Father, has Nature for His daughter; considered
as Son, has the Virgin for His mother and the Church
for His Bride; considered as the Mother or Holy
Ghost He regenerates and redeems humanity. These
attributes arc assigned to the various points as follows:
By some authors 6 is called the number of "co-
operation, marriage, reciprocal action, counterpoise,
psychology, divination, telepathy, psychometry and
alchemy," all of which are based upon its primary
significance as the Number of The Christ-force, the
informing principle of the Soul, pushing through na-
ture and man to perfection in number 7, Super-man.
The Druids held the number 6 in deep reverence and
many of their sacred ceremonies were based upon it.
They began their year upon the 6th day of the full
moon, and the 6 days within the full moon-3 before
and 3 afterwere held especially sacred, Also when
the sacred mistletoe was cut 6 priests performed the
ceremony.
An astronomical period of 600 years was hdd in
reverence and is often referred to in the Mysteries. It
consisted of 31 periods of 19 years each and 1 period
of 11 years. This cycle was known to the ancient
Chaldeans, who declared it the most perfect of all
astronomical periods. For instance, it was held that
if on a certain day at high noon a new moon appeared
The NuÌther6(Conthiú.d) 209
at a designatedplace in theheavens, it would appear
again at the expiration of 600 years in precisely the
same place and relations, with all the planets in the
same positions.
The Egyptians, like the Druids, had 6 High Priests,
and a certain Aseshra is mentioned as the "Mother of
the Mysterious Words of 6." Also a statue of El-men
has been found on which is carved the title, "Chief of
the Dwelling of the Great 6."
Among the ancient Semites on Saturn's day (Sat-
urday) 6 priests clothed in black ministered to the god
Saturn in a 6 sided temple, the walls of which were
hung with black. By some Saturn is considered as
sinister, but the above incident only proves that the
priests had a deep understanding of the esoteric posi-
tion of Saturn as the Great .Initiator. For esoterically
black symbolizes that which is unmanifested and not,
as vulgarly supposedbecause Saturn was farthest
from the sunthat which is cold, dark, evil and the
bringer of malign influences. Saturn as Lucifer is the
Unmanifested falling from heaven into manifestation,
but the Star of the Morning as he rises, through per-
fected and tested evolution, to his heavenly home.
Saturn is therefore often referred to as the hidden god
with 2 faces, 1 white and 1 black.
Number 6 is magically related to the circumference
f the circle, which contains 6X60 degrees, each con-
taining 60 minutes of 60 seconds each.
Let number 6 remind you of the upspringing power
Df nature; of the universal Urge Toward Perfection
which is inherent in the soul of all things; of the
power of The Christ-force working in you toward
more and more perfect expression through you. Let
it ever remind you that the divine Trinity is reflected
thin you 4 , but that thc lower triangle must
A
, V
A A
210 The Key to the Umverse
be lifted up until it balances the upper and forms the
your life interlaced with the Divine. Also that
by the power of The Christ within you must unfold
the 6 sided cube and balance the cross.
CHAPTER 23
THE 6TH LETrER, Vau ( 's).
"He produced Van, predominant in mind,
crowned it, combined and formed it with Taurus
in the Univers; Mar (May) in the year, and
the right kidney of man."
.Sepher Yetnrah, 24.
The 6th letter of the Hebrew alphabet is Vau (V).
It is a simple letter connected with Taurus, and its
meaning is an "eye." At 1st glance it is hard to connect
this meaning with the zodiacal sign Taurus, yet a little
thought will reveal a wonderful significance; for it is
the star Aldebaran, the eye of Taurus, which not only
is the leader of this constellation, but which gives to it
its great brilliancy. Taurus is composed of 2 brilliant
constellations of 7 stars eachthe Pleiades, which are
ruled over by the 7 Rishis, and the Hyades, called the
sisters or feminine aspect of these 7 great expressions
of elohistic force, the Rishis. The Hyades form the
head and neck of the Bull, which the Grecian myth
says bore Europa across the seas to Crete, and was
afterwards raised to the heavens by Jupiter as the sign
Taurus. Another myth is that these constellations
were raised to the heavens as a reward for having
brought up Zeus at Dodora and taken care of the in-
fant Dionysos Hyas. Aldebaran, the eye of the Bull,
is a Star of a brilliant reddish color, with a magnitude
of 34, and is the principal object of the group. But
its true occult significance is that when this star is in
conjunction with the Sun it is from that point of the
ediptic .that the calculations of new cycles are corn.
puted.
212 The Key to the Universe
A similarity will at once be noticed between the 1st
mother letter Aleph (ox) and Vau, which is also re-
lated to Taurus. The difference is that Aleph relates
to the sign in its creative aspect, while Van is the
manifestation of its force upon the earth.
In St. Matthew (vi, 22) we read: "The light of the
body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, thy
whole body is full of light." As above so below.
When the eye of man is in conjunction with the Sun
of Righteousness, or is looking to tht source of Light
alone with singleness of purpose, from that point we
can calculate a new era in his life; for he has com-
pleted his cycle of darkness.
Again, Taurus is an earthy, fixed sign and is looked
upon as unfortunate. Its children are plodders, are
often poor and find life full of vicissitudes and sorrows,
brought about, however, largely from their own want
of poise and balance. And it is in just such earthly
conditions that we must learn to fix our eye upon the
Sun, if we wish to reach into a new cycle or new
condition. The eye is often spoken of as the window
of the Soul, and in Taurus the Soul may be said to
be shut in a dark dungeon. But in this dungeon there
is a window facing the East through which the eye
can see the rising Sun, whose beams shall fill the dun-
geon with Light. Hence the eye represents the force
of the Soul struggling in its prison house of flesh to
penetrate through the mists and find the Light, just
as number 6 is The Christ-principle struggling in mat-
ter, but always upward towards the Light.
In Vau we also have another symbol, that of a "link"
between the human and the Divine, just as the neck
in the body connects the head with the trunk in which
is located the heart.
The 6 is called the hexad, from the Greek word hex,
meaning 6, thc Latin of which is sex. Hence sex or
The 6th Letter, VO44- 213
number 6, The Christ Principle, must be considered as
manifesting through the 2 expressions of sex in hu-
manity, man and woman. Sex or 6 expresses a defi-
nite cycle of experience through which all creation
either has or will pass, but through which man and
woman are passing today. Therefore the letter Vau
(or Vav as it is sometimes written, u and v being
synonymous) must be considered in reference to man
and woman, Vau being the link that unites the 2. In
the newly born infant it is the umbilical cord which
unites it to its mother, and over which the life-force is
carried to it, but between man and woman it is the far
more sacred line of magnetic and spiritual love-force
(life) which alone is the link capable of uniting the 2
in true marriage.
THP 6 TAROT CARD
TK LOVZS
VI
SmitA
MODERN
I
G 1LAMOUEUII 1.
lapu, M'EDIVAL Popis
The 6th Tarot Card, The Lovers 215
THE 6TH TAROT CAR1, The Lovers.
In the 6th card of the Tarot we have the idea of
Vau as a link strongly brought out. This card is
cafled "The Lovers," and pictures a young man stand..
ing motionless at a point where 2 roads meet, the
"Two Paths," the straight and narrow path which
leads to life everlasting, and the broad highway lead-
ing to the City of Destruction. His arms are crossed
upon his breast in an attitude of deliberation, for the
hands always indicate ability to accomplish, hence they
are crossed on the breast when work is done. The
hands are thus crossed in moments of idleness, after
accomplishment or in death. Before him stand 2
women, each with a hand upon his shoulder, while
with the other hand each is pointing to 1 of the Paths.
The woman on his right has a circlet of gold upon her
head. She is true Love, pointing him to the Path of
Duty which winds up hill all the way. The woman
on his left is disheveled and crowned with vine leaves.
She points him to the Path of Pleasure and dissipation.
These 2 figures represent Virtue and Vice, or the angel
messenger of Love to link him to the Divine and the
messenger of evil, the link which will bind him to the
seduction of the senses. Above their heads floats a
vadiant figure surrounded by the rays of the Sun, in
whose hand is a bow and arrow drawn ready to strike.
This card is a true symbol of the sign Taurus, for at
this point the Soul must meet all the seductions of the
senses, which are ruled by Venus, the dual Planet It
also contains the figure of Justice with his bow and
arrow pointed at Vice. This figure represents the
star Aldebaran in conjunction with the sun, also the
number 6 and The Christ-force, which will send out
its arrows against vice and will utterly destroy all evil,
even as the rays of the sun shoot out their arrows of
216 The Key to the Universe
light and destroy all germs of disease. Suffering is
inevitably linked to vice, for "the wages of sin is
death; but the gift of God is eternal life." It is not
the difficult climb up the mountain path that brings
death, but the wages you have earned. We must stop
earning death and allow the gift of eternal life to
manifest. Hence if the young man chooses the Path
of Vice, he links himself to death, which is his only
savior, for at each death of the body we are saved from
committing further sins and reaping further suffering.
We begin to die the moment we turn away from Di-
vine Love, and only when death has done its work can
we, through the power of The Christ-force, be resur-
rected from the grave of matter and live forevermore.
If the young man chooses the Path of Virtue The
Christ will work with him and the arrows of Justice
will prove to be shafts of fiery life pushing all that is
in him upward into life eternaL
The symbol of Vau is love, and only love is the light
of the eye. How dull an eye through which selfish-
ness looks, but how bright and clear when love shines
from it. Love is the only link that can unite us to the
Divine. Human love, however, must be a golden link,
and the 1 we love must be crowned with the gold of
spiritual ideals, for if we substitute lust for love we
find a link of heavy iron, chaining us to something
loathsome, chafing our flesh, hampering our move-
ments; a link indeed, but a link with death.
THE 6TH COMMANDMENT.
"Thou shalt not kilL
Esodns xx. 13.
The 6th Commandment, altho short and definite,
nevertheless derives its esoteric significance from the
meaning of the number 6, The Christ-force fighting its
way through the limitations of matter into more and
- 'R...s.. vL 33.
The 6th Command,#seni 217
more perfect manifestations. Since the 1 Life which
animates all forms of life is imnxrtal, the only thing
we can kill is the form of manifestation of the Divine
Spark, whether in humanity or in the lower kingdoms.
As we have said elsewhere: "The only sense in which
man can kill is to separate any form of life from this
stream of the One Life-force, or to dam it up or refuse
to permit it to manifest."3 Therefore, anything that
we may do to retard the manifestation of The Christ-
force in humanity or in the world is killing in its true
sense. The thing. we are really killing or retarding
however, is our own manifestation, our own evolution.
This is killing in the sense of separating our life from
the 1 Life and pushing ourselves back into the dark-
ness of ignorance, selfishness and personality. Death
is separation from God or the Divine Life-principle,
and our ignorance consists in the belief or delusion
that we can stop the 1 Life from unfolding within
another, and at the same time not retard its mani-
festation - in ourselves.
Every evolving Soul passes through. many deaths
in many- conditions, yet by the power of The Christ,
and with The Christ, he must ultimately triumph over
death and no longer either cause or suffer death. It
is said that the last victory is over death and the grave,
& e., we conquer by learnin that every thought of
antagonism toward another s helping to retard the
manifestation of Divine Love and Life which is seek-
ing expression through that 1. And since we can only
strike or injure another through ourselves, by so doing
we are bringing desolation and death into our own
auras. Every jealousy, every desire to belittle the
work of another, especially if the proper performance
of that work will contribute to the betterment of hu-
manity; every word of reproach or slander which
helps to blast the reputation and kill the usefulness of
'V. .1 1.. ipter mIL
218 The Key to the Umverse
a fellow mortal, discourage him in his efforts to con-
quer, and make him fail, are all so many germs of
death to us which will retard or prevent the manifes-
tation of the Divine through us. For as we harbor
rivalry, jealousy, envy, hatred, etc., we kill out our
finer feelings and perceptions, our sympathy and lov-
ing tolerance and kindness, and thus sow the seeds of
death within our own lives. Therefore, though the
forms through which we express our life may die
many times, yet through the power of The Christ we
shall live again and again until we conquer death and
the grave, and with this last enemy conquered we,
together with all the redeemed of mankind, shall live
forever more.
The Command that number 6 brings us, therefore,
is that we are to recognize the Divine in all things,
both animate and inanimate, so-called; that we are
consciously to work with The Christ; that we are not
to kill, deaden or even blind the eyes of the world to
its workings, but strive to live in The Christ forever
more, laiowing that only as The Christ lives and mani-
fests in us can we live and manifest our Divine Selves.
Only by recognizing The Christ in the 1 Life shall we
be made alive in Christ. Thus shall we obey the
Commandment. "Thou shalt not kill."
CHAPTER 24
THE NUMBER 7.
The Mystery of Creation.
"Number 7 is the festival day of all the
earth, the birthday of the world. I know not
whether anyone would be able to celebrate the
number 7 in adequate terms."
The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, I, 438.
"By these Seven letters were also made seven
worlds, seven heavens, seven earths, seven seas,
seven rivers, seven deserts, seven days, seven
weeks from Passover to Pentecost, and every sev-
enth year a Jubilee.'!
Sepher Yetzirah, 22.
The number 7 is the most sacred of aU numbers,
and for several reasons is so considered in all theogt-
nies. 1st, because it relates to the mystery of the
manifestation of the Godhead, the Mystery of Crea-
tion; 2nd, because number 7 governs the ecjually divine
Mystery of GesWAion, and 3rd, because it is the Num-
ber of Perfection.
All the ancient. mystery teachings agree that the
Divine brought forth the manifested universe through
a Deity having a 7 fold aspect, called in the Christian
scriptures the 7 Elohim, the "Sons of God" spoken of
by Job.1 The Elohim are the spiritual progenitors of
the 7 great Creative Rays or Hierarchies which con-
stitute the manifested aspect of the Godhead, and
which are focused or embodied in the Rulers or Dei-
ties of the 7 sacred planets. It was these 7 manifes-
tations of the 1 God who said: "Let there be light,"
and the whit Light, which resulted from the perfect
* Job. L &
2) The Key to the Universe
blending of the 7 color rays,' brought the earth and the
universe into manifestation.
As we have said elsewhere: "At the first rebirth of
our earth - for the law of cyclic rebirth applies to
planets and systems as well as to menit was brought
into manifestation or 'created' by a ray of pure white
light from the Absolute penetrating the chaotic debris
of previous world-periods. As a ray of light in pass-
ing through a prism is separated into seven color-rays,
so this Ray of Spiritual Light in passing through the
pthm of manifestation was separated into seven great
differentiations or color-rays called Hierarchies."
The Hebrew word used in Genesis and crudely
translated "God" is not only plural, being the plural
form of El-h, but many later references to creation
also refer to this same "God" in the plural, showing
plainly that the 7 fold nature of the Godhead was
clearly understood by the writers of the various books
of the Bible. For instance, "Let u.s make man in our
image, after our likeness. * * * And the Lord
God said, Behold the man is become as one of us,"
etc
"The Elohim are seven in number, whether as
nature-powers, gods of constellations, or planetary
gods,t a a as the Pitris and Patriarchs, Minus
and Fathers of earlier times. The Gnostics, how-
ever, and the Jewish Kabalah preserve an account
of the Elohim of Genesu by which we are able to
identify them with other form, of the seven pri-
mordial powers. a a 5 Their names are Ildabaoth,
Jehouh (or Jao), Sabaoth, Adouai, Eloeus,
Oreus, and Mtanpheus. Ildabaoth signifies the
Lord God of the father,, that is the father, who
preceded the Father; and thus the seven are
identical with the seven Pitris or Fathers of India
jlreneus, B. I., xx1 5). Moreover, the Hebrew
Elohim were preexistent by name and nature as
Phoenician divinities or powers. a a a In the
Phoenician mythology the Elohim are the seven
'Tb. uimpi. ezperlment In physic. prove, that U th. 7 mIce, ars
ad on a d,ac and rapidly revolved they wflI blind Into whit..
V. of I., 379.
'Gewws, 1, 26; UI, 22.
The Num1er7 221
ions of Sydik (Meichizedek), identical with the
Seven Kabiri, who in Egypt are the. Seven sons
of Ptah, and the Seven spirits of Ra in The
Book of the Dead. * * * They are the Je.1i"
stars of seven constellations which turned roun
the Great Bear in describing the circle of the year.
These the Assyrians called the seven Liimazi, or
leaders of the flocks of stars, designated as
sheep * * $ The Elohim, then, are the Egyptian.
Akkadian, Hebrew and Phoenician form of the
universal Seven Powers, who are Seven in Egypt,
Seven in Akkad, Babylon. Persia, India, Bntaui1
and Seven among the Gnostics and Kabalists.P'
The 7 great Creative Rays or Beings are called in
the Christian scriptures, '1the sons of God * * the
seven Spirits of God * * * the seven angels
which stood before God * * * the seven Spirits
which are before his throne * * * the seven
Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth * * *
the angels of the seven churches" etc. By the early
church Fathers these Angels are spoken of as the
Spiritual Beings who have direct charge of the creation
and evolution of this planet and its inhabitants and
were regarded as the Agents of God Wand- the Guard-
ians and Regents over the 7 divisions of the earth and
mankind. St. Denys,. the Areopagite, St. Thomas
Aquinas and others all express these same ideas.
'We meet with those seven in Egyptalso in
the Babylonian legend of Creation, as the Seven
Brethren, who were Seven Kings. like the Seven
Kings in the Book of Reve1aIio.; and the Seven
Non-Sentient Powers, who became the Seven
Rebel Angels that made war in heaven. The
Seven Kronidae, described as Seven Watchers
** * their work of creation being identical with
that of the Elohim of the Book of Genesis."
Since number 7 isthe symbol which refers to these
creative Hierarchies, something of their potency and
power inheres mystically in it. And since this number
'S.D HI 19446.
: UI, viii, 2; I, 4; v, I. 20.
222 The Key to the Universe
has been and still is connected with Deity in the
thoughts of many Races of mankind throughout the
ages, a great power and force has thus been generated
and attached to it.
Among the various nations these 7 Creative Forces
of the Cosmos have been identified with the Rulers
of the 7 sacred planetsSun, Moon, Mercury, Mars,
Venus, Jupiter and Saturn. Among the Kabalists
the symbols for these 7 Planetary Spirits are as fol-
lows: the Sun, a serpent with the head of a lion;
the Moon, a globe divided by 2 crescents; Mars, a
dragon biting the hilt of a sword; Mercury, a caduceus
and the Cynocephalus; Venus, a lingam; Jupiter, a
blazing pentagram in the beak of an eagle; Saturn, a
lone and aged man, or a serpent coiled around a sun-
stone.
Michael (the Sun) was called the Angel of Light;
Gabriel (the Moon) the angel of Dreams and aspira-
tions; Samael (Venus) the Angel of Love; Anael
(Mercury) the angel of Prqgress; Raphael (Mars)
the Angel of Destruction; Zachariel (Jupiter) the
Angel of Power; Oriflel (Saturn) the Angel of the
Wilderness.
The 7 virtues and the 7 deadly sins were also asso-
dated with the planets as follows: Faith, which in the
weak degenerates into Pride, is associated with the
Sun; Hope and Avarice with the Moon; Charity
(Love) and Luxury with Venus; Strength and Wrath
with Mars; Prudence and Idleness with Mercury;
Temperance and Gluttony with Saturn; Justice and
Envy with Jupiter.
Spiritually the 7 sacred .planets constitute the 7
sacred centers in the body of the Grand or Heavenly
Man, all receiving their life-force from His heart,
just as physically they receive their life-force from the
sun and send it forth again tinged with something of
The Number 7 223
their own color and characteristic vibrations. Since
man is the microcosm of the macrocosm he also has
7 physical, 7 astral and 7 psychic centers within his
body, in each of which is focused the force of the
planet to which it corresponds. These are the 7 Por-
tals, having 7 golden keys, referred to in The Voice
of the Silence' which man must guard and learn to
open and close at will. "These centers, each with its
7 subsidiary centers, are sometimes called the '49
crucified saviors,' signifying that the vital power of
these centers is at present misused and crucified, and
ere they can become man's Saviors they must be resur-
rected from the tomb of matter and made to function
in a higher state. They are called the '49 fires' because
their light guides man to Superman."
In the realm of other physical expressions we again
find number 7 ruling Creation and Manifestation. The
1 white light splits up into the 7 colors of the solar
spectruinviolet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange
and redthe colors of the rainbow, from which ali
other colors are produced. Since each manifesting
vibration has its sound as well as its color, we natu-
rally find that the musical scale is composed of 7
notesdo, re, ml, fa, sol, Ia, si, the next do completing
the octave and beginning a new. From this scale the
ancient philosophers constructed a ladder of relative
planetary sounds upon which they based their "music
of the spheres." This scale was made up of the 7
true nature-notes which composed the sacred Word by
which all creation was called into manifestation, and
are not the notes of the modern musical scale, which
it is well known do not give the mathematically correct
number of vibrations, but are slightly modified to suit
modern methods.
From the proportions existing between the vowel
sounds assigned to the planets, the distances between
'Pr.g.esUL Y.fL,16S.
224 The Key to the Unverse
the planets were estimated so accurately by the ancients
that they approximate very closely to the figures
claimed as a result of the use of the most scientific
instruments by modern astronomers. The scale of
planetary notes and colors as given in The Secret
Doctrine is as follows:
?LÅItTI, Mooa Mmcciv Vawos Sux Mw Jcmu SÅTVIS
Vowels, a a ee 1 o o.
Notes, a! ml Ia te do aol Is
Colors, Violet Yellow Indigo Orange Red or Grew
"The besttt * Psychics, as shown by Galton,
can also perceive colors produced by the vibra-
tions of musical instruments, evesy note suggest-
ing a different color. As a string vibrates and
gives forth an audible note, so the nerves of the
human body vibrate and thrill in correspondence
with the various emotions under the general
impulse of the circulating vitality of Prana, thus
producing undulations in the psychic Aura of the
person which results in chromatic effects.
"The human nervous system as a whole, then,
may be regarded as an Æolian Harp, responding
to the impact of the vital force.""
Perception is located in the aura of the Pineal
Gland. During the process of thought there is a con-
stant vibration in the light of the aura, and those who
can use the inner sight can plainly see the 7 colors in
that aura, each color shading from darkest to lightest.
The scale of true nature-notes was well known to the
priesthood of many ancient peoples and was used in
their sacred chants and mantra, especially during the
ceremonies of Initiation. Among the Hindus this scale
was expressed on a peculiar instrument called the
vina which is used to accompany the chanting of their
sacred hymns and inantra. This instnunent is made
"S. D.. Ill. 509.
The Number 7 fl5
of a bamboo rod. having attached at each end a
large hollow gourd, which acts as a sounding board.
On the front of the rod 5 strings are, strung side by
side, with an additional string on either side of the
rod below the level of the others, thus making 7 in
all. The vina is probably the most ancient musical
mstrument known to man, having been given to him,
so the legend tells us, by Brahma himself. Altho there
are more than 2000 airs for the vinaeach 1 said
to have its pecial effect upon diseases, obsessions,
insanity, elementals, etc.it is said: none have ever
been written down, but are handed on by ear from
father to son or teacher to pujiL We will repeat
(from memory) the legend of.the'vna as told us by
Mme. Desal, a dainty little Hindu lady who is said to
be the only. woman player of the .zrin in the world.
After Brahma had created the woild :and' its inhabi-
tants, his wife Sarasavati complained 1: day that
he had given man nothing to relieve his toil, the
monotony of his existence norhis sorrows and suffer-
ing. Brahma recognized the justice of her complaint
and told her) to devise some plan for the amelioration
of man's lot. She therefore took a bamboo rod and
strung strings upon it which would repeat the vibra-
tions of love and harmony of; the 7 nature-notes with
which her father had created the universe. And the
instrument thus fashioned and given to mankind was
the vina.
We find a similar idea expressed in the Greek legend
of the 7 stringed lyre given to Orpheus by Apollo his
father, Apollo being the god of the sun or of spiritual
Light, and the lyre representing the .7 creative nature-
notes or the 7 color-rays emanating from the 7 planets,
while Orpheus typified the animating principle or The
Christ-force which alone can draw divine harmony
from the forces of Nature.
226 The Key to th. Unsverss
This I dthe hidden meaning of Apollo's Hepta-
chord, the lyre of the radiant god, in each of
the seven strings of which dwelleth the Spirit,
Soul and Astral Body of the Kosmos, whose shell
only has now fallen into the hands of Modern
Science."21
These notes represent lines of force emanating from
the sun, 1 of which is picked out, focused and concen-
trated by each of the 7 planets and again sent forth.
It is because of these rays of force, acting upon the 7
sacred centers in man which correspond to the planets,
that the planetary forces affect man. Hence man can
sweep the strings of his golden harp in harmony, only
as he correlates with the sun-force (The Christ) within,
and can listen, understand and respond, to the 7 mystic
notes only as he builds into his life the planetary forces
and rules them. This same idea is the foundation of
the Christian allegory of a heaven in which the saints
stand before the throne (i. e., the sun) and play on
harps of gold and chant the song of the Lamb which
was slain. The Lamb is none other than the Ram of
Aries slain that the cosmic blood or life-force of its
ruler, Mars, might be poured out to manifest as the
vitalizing, pushing, overcoming power by which the
sprout of The Christ-seed" in every heart shall put
forth in spite of all obstacles, and ultimately bring to
bloom the Rose of Divine Love whose perfume is
immortality. Hence the song of the Lamb is the
great pean of mastery of the forces sent out by the
septenary sun to the planets and reflected in man. It
is sung by those who have mastered and been redeemed
and not by those who have merely passed out of incar-
nation.
While the music of Apollo's lyre is man's response
to the 7 planetary forces, the pipes of Pan represent
the response of nature to these same forces. This is
S. D., 1, 190. See kuon Tb. C7irùS S.ed.
The Number 7 n7
beautifully illustrated by the story of Ìhe contest
between Apollo and Pan before the mountain god
Tmolus who was chosen umpire. "The senior took
his seat and cleared away the trees from his ears to
listen. At a given signal Pan blew on his pipes, and
with his rustic melody gave great satisfaction to him.
self and his faithful follower King Midas, who hap-
pened tobe present. Then Tmolus turned his head
toward the Sun-god and all his trees turned with him.
Apollo rose; his brow wreathed with Parnassian laurel,
while his robe of Tyrian purple swept the ground. In
his left hand he held the lyre and with his right hand
struck the strings. Ravished with the harmony,
Tmolus at once awarded the victory to the god of
the lyre, and all but Midas acquiesced in the judgd
ment. Apollo would not suffer such a depraved pair
of ears any longer to wear the human form, but
caused them to increase in length, row hairy, within
and without, and movable on their roots; in short,
to become the perfect pattern of those of an ass."
This settles the question so often brought up by those
who retire from human habitations to become hermits
in an effort to attain peace and conquer temptation.
To them the harmony of The Christ-force manifesting
in the lower kingdoms and interpreted through the
nature-tones of Pan, seems all that is necessary to lift
them to godhood. But let them mingle with their
fellow men, with the right attitude of mind, and listen
while Apollo sweeps the heart strings of humanity and
they will soon acknowledge the supremacy of the
higher manifestation, or will grow asses' ears. In other
words those who exclude themselves from human
society inevitably tend to degenerate into animalism.
For even at the creation of man there was found no
help meet for him; no animal was found worthy to be
his companion save 1 created after his own kind.
N Tb. 4g. .f F.M.. BuIlncb-Xiapp, 60.
228 The Key to the Unsverse
Number 7 was also sacred to Clio, the Muse of epic
poetiy and history (which formerly were recited
instead of written), because associated with the voice
and sound, as it was through the spoken Word that
the universe was brought into manifestation. There
are 7 tones to the human voice, each of which correl-
ates with 1 of the 7 creative tones and hence must be
harmonized with the music of the spheres. To an
Adept the tones of the voice reveal the stage of a
person's spiritual unfoldment. These examples should
be sufficient to show that number 7 governs the Law
of Creation, in man, nature aid the Cosmos,
Most dieases run their course in periods of time
divisible by 7 or its multiples, the crisis coming on the
7th, 14th or 21st day and lasting about 33/2 ( of 7)
days. The menstrual functions of women occur in a
cyde of 4 times 7 or 28 days and normally last about
35 days.
CHAPTER 25
THE NUMBER 7(Conthiued).
The Number of ManifesMion and GejtaHoL
"Seven high mountains I beheld, higher than
all the mountains of the earth * * * seven rivers
* * * seven great islands I saw in the sea and on
theearth. Seveninthegreatsea***whenthe
moon rises, it appears in heaven; and the half of
a seventh portion of the light is all which is in it."
Book of Ereoch, Chapter lxxvii, 4 7; lxxvii, 5.
In the study of cosmic evolution, not only do we find
7 sacred planets in our system, but each of these
planets has a 7 fold manifestation. As is concisely
expressed elsewhere: "Each visible planet is but the
lowest, densest aspect of a seven-fold chain, called by
occultists a 'World Chain.' A World Chain is com-
posed of seven globes of differing states of matter and
consciousness, all existing at the same time and all
interpenetrating. The globes of any one chain must
not be identified with the visible planets, for only one
globe of each Chain is visible, each physically visible
planet being the physical globe of its own Chain, just
as the Earth is the physical globe of the Earth Chain.
The other six globes of each Chain are composed of
finer and more ethereal states of matter to which our
physical senses do not respond. They are invisible
and hence to us apparently do not exist.
"In its descent (involution) into physical manifesta-
don life appears successively on each of the seven
globes during one day-period called a Round, seven
such day-periods or Rounds being required to complete
the cycle of manifestation (involutionturning point
230 The Key to the Universe
evolution). 'Our Earth, as the (now) visible repre-
sentative of its superior fellow-globes * * * has to live
as have the others, through seven Rounds.' * * * These
arcane teachings, preserved in their purity upon imper-
ishable records through all ages, tell us that during
each Day-period or Round seven Great Races follow
each other successively, each being made up Of seven
sub-races, which in turn are composed of many tribes,
kingdoms and nations. These Races and sub-races do
not begin suddenly nor end abruptly to make way fo
the next, but overlap for untold ages crc the old give
way to the new. For example: 'The majority of mat.
kind belongs to the seventh sub-race of the Fourth
Root Race.' * * * aitho humanity is already enter-
ing the sixth sub-race of the Fifth Great Race of the
Fourth Round." 1 The 1st Great Race of this Round
was the Polar, the 2nd the Hyperborean, the 3rd the
Leinurian, the 4th the Atlantean, and the 5th is our
present Aryan Race.
"The Great Law manifests in seven major aspects,'
one of which is the main lesson to be worked out on
each planetary chain, while all the others are repre-
sented as secondary factors. Thus, while the earth
chain is working out The Law of Polarity as its main
lesson, still this can only be learned by a blending of
all the other aspects as subsidiary lessons, just as each
of the seven colors of the spectrum, while manifesting
its own dominant ray, still contains within it an
expression of all the other rays." "No one aspect
manifests alone, but while each may predominate in
turn all the others manifest at the same time as subor-
dinate factors."4
Not only is number 7 the Law of Manifestation in
the Races of mankind, but also in man himself. For,
like the planet and the Race, man is a 7 fold being
composed like number 7, of the 3 and the 4, the
$ V. of 1 206, 229-30.
'A. (I) òrder (2) Compensstkn (3) Cause and Effect ot Iar
(4) Viby*tio, (5) e1ance. (6) Çycles. (7) PolarIty or Opposites.
'See lesson The AscenS of Doys.
V. of 1. 193.
The Numher 7(Continued) 231
and the 0. His physical body is themost dense and
physical instrument through which the Soul, the Real
Man, manifests. This physical body is but the outer
covering of, and is built upon, a body composed of
finer and more ethereal matter, the astral body, through
which the body of desires (Kama Rupa) functions.
The mental body (lower Manas) completes the 0 of
the 4 fold vehicle through which the Soul, composed of
the L of the 3 higher principles - Divine Mind
(Higher Manor); 1.'he amst-consciousness (Buddhi)
-and the Ray (ALma) from the Absolutefunctions in
the worlds of manifestation. According to The Secret
Doctrine6 man has 7 states of consciousnessatmic,
buddhic, higher manasic, lower manasic, astral, desire
and animal or instinctive. He also has 7 kinds of per-
ception, i. e., physical, sense-perception, self-perception,
psychic, vital, will and spiritual perception.
Man's physical body is 7 fold in its construction.
There are 7 natural divisions of the bcdy: head, thorax
(chest), abdomen, 2 -arms and 2 legs. The human
embryo ha7 parts: the fetus, amnion, amniotic fluid,
chorion, allantois, decidua and umbilical vesicle. There
are 7 great tissue systems composing his body: epithel-
ial, connective, muscular, nervous and the blood,
lymph and reproductive fluids. Of connective tissue
there are 7 kinds: gelatinous, areolar, fibro-elastic,
cartilage, bone, reticulated and adipose. Of epithel-
ial tissue there are 7 kinds: squamous, ciliated, goblet,
neuro, columnar, glandular and pigmented. The body
has 7 great functions: respiration, circulation, assimi-
lation, excretion, reproduction, sensation and reaction.
There are 7 great organs essential to life; brain, heart,
lungs, liver, kidneys, spleen an1 pancreas. There are
7 layers to the skin: stratum corneuna, lucidum, gran-
ulosum, germinativum, corium, hair and fat. There
are 7 divisions to the eye: cornea, aqueous humor, iris,
1 For further detaD. , TI,. S,crd Vocfr.., B1avat.k.
'VoL UI. 5654.
232 The Key to the U,swerse
lens, vitreous humor, retina and sclera. There are 7
layers to the retina: fibrous, ganglion cells, inner and
outer nuclear layers, layer of rods and cones; pigment
layerandthechoroid. Thereare7divisionstotheear:
auditory canal, tympanuni, ossides, semicircular
c2n2l5, vestibule, cochlea, mexnbranous labyrinth. The
heart has 7 compartments or cavities: the right and left
ventricles, right and left aurides, right and left auricu-
lar appendages and the sack of the pericardium which
encloses the whole. Among the Hindus the heart is
called the 7 leaved lotus or the "Cave of Buddha" with
7 chambers. There are 7 parts or natural divisions
to the brain: cerebrum, cerebellum, optic thalami,
corpora quadrigemina, crura cerebn, pons varolii and
the medulla oblongata. There are 7 functions to
the nervous system: olfactory, optic, auditory, gusta-
tory, tactile, heat and pain sensations.
2nd only to the fact that it represents the idea of
the Godhead and the Mystery of Creoiioa, number 7 is
sacred because, as the Number of Gestatios, it has to
do with the complete manifestation of the Godhead in
all its various expression (1+2+3415+6+7=28
=10=1). We may expect, then, to find number 7
connectedwithallformsoflifeand forcewhichhave
to do with birth and bringing forth. And so we
find it. Cosmically, it requfrecl 7 "days" or creative
periods of enormous length to complete the objective
manifestation of this solar system, and its evolution
will continue through 7 more such "days," in the 4th
of which it is now living. Materially, we find that the
chemical elements nialing up the world of mattes
arrange themselves according to a 7 fold principle
called the Periodic Law. That is if the elements arc
arranged according to their atomic weights, from the
lightest to the heaviest, the 1st 7 are found to have
markedly different and characteristic properties, while
The N,rther 7(Conthuwd) 233
the properties of the next (8th) elenientare not
different and characteristic, but resemble those of the
1st. Similarly the 9th element resembles the 2nd, the
10th resembles the 3rd and so on until all the elements
(with certain temporary exceptions) are arranged in
7 great groups, the elements composing each group
having similar properties, functions and reactions.
We thus see that chemical variety, so far as
we can grasp its inner nature, depends ica
numerical relations,' '.' we find a law of period-
leity governed by the number seven. ... The
fact that this periodiciq- and variety Is go,erned
by the number seven is undeniable, and it far
surpasses the limits of. mere chance, and must be
assumed to have an adequate cause, which cause
must be discovered."
"It must be stated that Occult $dence recog.
nuts seven Cosmic Elementsfour entirely ph1s
Ical, and the fifth (ether) semi-material, which
win become visiblt in the Air toward-the end
of our Fourth Round, to, reign sureme over the
others during the whole of the Fifth. The re-
inhMg two are as yet absolutely beyond the
range of human perception. rhey w1ll
pppear as , presentlinents during the Sixth and
Seventh Rices of this Round, and will be fully
known in the Sixth and Seventh Rounds respect-
ively. These seven Elements with their number-
less sub-elements, which are far more numerous
than those known to Science, are sily condi-
lionel modifications and aspects of the One and
only Element This latter is not Ether, not even
Akas". but the source of these.
Number 7 is called the 'Master of the. Moon,"
because the moon changes its appearance every 7 days.
It ii well known that the phases of the moon not only
rule the tides and vegetation, but in- the higher forms
of life regulate both the periodic functions of woman
and_gestation in generaL'
'S. D., 1, 34.
S. D, 1. 401.
o k ibs GIne .1 Wi W . CIe sad ibs
g..d sad sv M. inn Is Ibulr 1ncy." S. P.S. 41$.
234 The Key to She Universe
"The birth, growth, maturity, vital functions,
healthy revolutions of change, diseases, decay and
death, of insects, reptiles, fishes, birds, vimrnaII
and of even man, are more or less controlled by a
law of compktios in weeks (or 7 days).
For instance, the embryo of the pigeon hatches in
2 weeks, the chicicen in 3 weeks, the turkey and duck
in 4, the goose in 5, the thea in 6, the ostrich in 7 and
the cassowary in 8 weeks. Being the most complete
of all forms of life, the human embryo or fetus, while
viable at the 7th month, requires the complete cycle
of 10 for its development before birth, thus, 10 months
of 28 days or 4X7-28X10=280==l0. Also the aver-
age weight of the human fetus is 7 pounds.
Both Hippocrates and Pythagoras heldand this is
confirmed by the experience of modern physicians
that a child born at 7 months or at the full
term of 9 months could live, because each of
these numbers was composed of a male (odd)
and a female (even) number, thus 3+4 = 7;
5+4 = 9; but children born at 8 months could
not live because born under a purely feminine
number, thus: 4-f-4==8. The umbilical cord dries up
and drops off by the 7th day; the teeth begin their
development in the 7th week of intra-uterine life, the
1st teeth appear during the 7th month after birth and
the full set, which last for 7 years, are attained in the
4X7 or 28th month, while the sex functions begin in
the 2X7 or 14th year.
'With the Egypthns number 7 was the symbol
of life eternal', uys Ragon, and adds that this is
why the Greek letter Z, which is but a double 7,
is the initial letter of Zaå, 'I live', and of Zeus,
the 'father of all living'.
The 7th letter of the Egyptian alphabet is called
Zenta and means life.
S.D..U.eS$. USD.fl.5.
The Number 7(Consinued) 235
The cells of our bodies are continually changing,
the old dying and being replaced by new, so that it has
been estimated that every 7 months the soft tissues
are completely renewed, while every 7 years we have
an entirely new body, even to the composition of the
bones.
The physical body of man undergoes a complete
change of structure every seven years, and its
destruction and preservation are due to the alter-
nate functions of the Fiery Lives, as Destroyers
and Builders. They are builders by sacrificing
themselves, in the form of vitality, to restrain the
destructive influence of the microbes, and, by sup-
plying the microbes with what is necessary, they
compel them under that restraint to build up the
material body and its cells. They are Destroyers
also, when that restraint is removed, and the -
microbes, unsupplied with vital constructive
energy, are left to run riot as destructive agents.
"The facts I have briefly glanced at are general
facts, and cannot happen day after day in so many
nsihion,r of animals of every kind, from She lar
or ovans of a srnrnde insect sip to man, at idnite
periods, from a mere chance or coincidence ***
Upon the whole it is, I think, impossible to come
to any less general conclusion than this, that, in
nm1t, changes occur every three and a half,
seven, fourteen, twenty-one and twensy-right days,
or at some ddaite iuimber of week,r" or
septenary cydes.
S.D..L2$3.
CHAPTER 26
THE NUMBER 7(Continued).
The Number of Perfection.
"When thou bait passed into the seventh,
(stage) 0 happy one, thou shalt perceive no more
the sacred Three, * * * They have become one
star, the fire that burns but scorches not, that
fire which ii the Upadhi of the FIame"
The Voice of the SiMscc, Bla,atsky, 19-20.
In considering number 7 in its aspect of complete-
NCSS and perfection we find that the Hebrew word for
7iscocnposedofthe3lettersSBOandhasmany
interpretations, but all are connected with the funda-
mental idea of completeness and "Satisfied abundance."
It means "age" or "cycle," hence Sabbath is the rest
of old age or the completion of the life-cycle. It is
connected with the gray-headed, and the 7th or Sab
bath day is presided over by Saturn, who is represented
as an old man, Cronus or Father Time. In the Greek
the word se/ito:, from the verb sebo, to venerate, is con-
nected with the idea of Father Time as a venerable old
man as commonly depicted.
The 3 periods which complete man's life are corn-
posed of 3, 4 and 3 groups (total 10 groups) of 7
years each, thus: youth extends 3X7-21 yrs; prime
extends 4X7=28 yss; age extends 3X7-21 yrs; total
7X10-70 yrs. or the biblical "threescore and ten" or
3X3)±1O==70 years.
"During the first half of a man's life. the
first five periods of seven years each, the Fiery
Livesthe 7th and highest sub-division of the
plane of matterare directly engaged in a proc.
eu of buildinç up man's material body; bfe Is
on the ascending scale, and the force Is used In
The Numler 7(ContiÌued) 237
ccnstruction and increase. After this period u.
passed, the age of retrogression commences, and,
the work of the Fiery Lives exhausting their
strength, the work of destruction and decrease
also commences." -
Number 7 is complete and saëred because it is
composed of the triad (3) and the tetrad (4) or God
and nature, combined in man. Pythagoras says nuin-
ber 7 has a body composed of the 4 principles and a
soul composed of 3 principles. 3 as the Number of
LigM is wedded to 4, the Number of Life, and 3 as
the Number of Spirit is wedded to 4 as the Number
of Master, and these 2 couples are both combined in
7. Again 3 is spiritual and Divine while 4 is physical
and human, hence man as 7 is both human and Divine,
the 0 overshadowed and protected by the z. In
number 5 the 1 God descends into the midst of the
pairs of opposites of humanity thus: 2-1-2, but in
number 7 the Divine Trinity has unfolded its triple
aspect within the 2 pairs thus: 2-3-2, the effect of
which is to transmute the mundane twos into divine
threes, thus: 3-1-3 or has perfected the work begun in
number 5 as 2-1-1 That 7 is an expression of Per-
fection is also shown by the fact that the sum of the
first 7 digits equals 10, thus: 1+2+31415+6
+7=28=10.
The number seven," says the Kabbalab, 1.
the great number of the 'Divine Mysteries'."'
According to Cornelius Agrippa, "Seven, being the
sum of the Primary Numbers, is a diameter of all
number. A diameter of 7 has a circumference, in
whole numbers, of 22. The action of life is a dividing
of this circumference of 22 by its diameter of 7, result-
ing as: 3.142857,142857oo the residuum eternally
repeating 142857. * * S Hence, by reason of these prop.
'S.DJ,l,
238 The Key So the Universe
erties of 7 * * * to numerically interpret Infinite Nature
is to divide its number (999,999,999) by 7. This
gives us, again, the Number of Infinite Evolution:
142857,142857,142857oo ." a
It requires 7 members to form a Free Mason's Lodge
(altho 5 may hold it after organization), thus symbol-
izing that man to be the Master Man must manifest
number 7. While he can hold a "lodge," i. e., can be
a man and live his life as a 5 fold being, yet he must
always remember that this is but a stage of growth,
a place of incompleteness, and that he must ultimately
prepare and add 2 more members (senses and powers)
to his "lodge," ere he can be a true Mason. The
Knights of Kadosh symbolize the masonic ideals of
the relations between God and man by a double ladder
having 7 steps of ascent and 7 steps of descent. The
former are called Ohed EloaJ, or Love of God, while
the latter are termed Oheb Kerobo, or Love of Shy
Neighbor. These symbolize that to give true brotherly
love to your neighbor you must first ascend in love
to God.
Just as the truths of the Wisdom Religion have been
preserved through the Dark Ages in a game of cards
the Tarot, from which our playing cards were derived
so has the importance and fortunate nature of num-
ber 7 been handed down from the days of the Chal-
deans in the game of dice, the opposite sides of
which always add up to 7, thus: 1 is opposite to 6, 2
is opposite to 5 and 3 is opposite to 4.
The method of calculating cycles in the Bible is by
systems of weeks, weeks of days, weeks of years, etc.
From the Goth's names for the 7 Planetary Deities
we derive our names for the days of the week, thus,
the Sun's day (Sunday), the Moon's da7 (Monday),
Tuisco's (Mars') day (Tuesday), Wotan s (Mercury)
day (Wednesday), Thor's (Jupiter's) day (Thurs-
'Tb. Myc Th....ns. lYkItO.sd. 474
The Number 7(Contin4ied) 239
day), Friga's (Venus') day (Friday), Seatur's (Sat.
urn's) day (Saturday).
The Zuni Indians built their villages in clusters of 6
tepees surrounding a 7th. Their mystic sacerdotal
gatherings were composed of 6 "Priests of the House"
who drew their inspiration from a 7th who was always
a woman called the "Priestess Mother." While offici-
ating at their annual festivals each was arrayed in a
robe of the color sacred to 1 of the 7 sacred planets,
and when so robed each was considered to be the
representative of the planetary deity whose color he
wore, hence gave his judgments as from that deity.
These priests received an annual tribute of corn of 7
colors from the members of the tribe.4
The city of Thebes had 7 gates built by Amphion.
"The most famous monument of ancient Thebes was
the outer wall with its seven gates, even as late as the
sixth century B. C., it was probably the largest of
artificial Greek fortresses." "The seven gates of
Thebes, attacked and defended by seven chiefs who
have sworn upon the blood of victims, possess the
same significance as the seven seals of the sacred book
interpreted by the seven genii, and assailed by a mon-
ster with seven heads."
Westcott calls attention to the fact that "The number
7 was curiously related to H. P. Blavatslcy and the
Theosophical Society. 'Lucifer' was first published in
1887, and 1887 is the sum of 17 hundreds, 17 tens
and 17 units; H. P. B. lived at 17 Lansdown Road,
and 17 Avenue Road; 'Lucifer' was published at 7
Duke St.; 7 volumes were completed at her death;
Colonel Olcott first met her at 7 Beckman Street, and
later at 71 Broadway, New York. Anna Kingsfoid
was elected president first of the London T. S. Lodge
in 1877, and the Third volume of 'The Secret Doctrine'
was_published in 1897, after her death."
'S.D.I1,665. 'Nu.1rs,$4.
'Tr.wc,tsde..1 M.jw. IÅvI. 34.
240 Tue Key So th Unwerse
Besides the passages already quoted, both the Old
and the New TestGments are filled with references to
the number 7 which show the great regard in which
it was held in Israel. These again exhibit the funda-
mental idea of completion, rounding out, also, the
binding and unalterable nature of a thing repeated
7 times. Thus Naaman was told to dip 7 times in the
river Jordan to be cleansed of his leprosy (II Kings
v, 14). This is a symbol of the potency of number 7
in evolution, for only as man has dipped at least 7
times into the Stream of Lifewhich like the river
Jordan is muddy and turbulentand has cleansed him-
self from all loathsome carnalities can he emerge as
conqueror and be ready to pass on through number 8
to his Great Initiation in number 9.
Noah was commanded to take into the ark of all
clean beasts by sevens, and of the unclean by pairs
(Genesis, vii, 2). The clean beasts were those used
for food, and as food is the material from which the
tissues and energies of the body are elaborated, it is
naturally ruled by 7. The unclean beasts not used for
food refer to mundane forces which are ruled by the
pairs of opposites. In the tabernacle a golden candle-
stick with 7 branches was a notable feature (Exodus,
xxv, 31.) This again symbolizes man with the fires
in his 7 sacred centers lighted, each of which must emit
The flame of Divine Love cre his tabernacle (body) is
a fit dwelling place for the Holy Presence. Abraham
made a covenant with Abirnelech (Genesis, xxi, 28)
by presenting him with 7 ewe lambs, thus making the
covenant complete and binding. Jacob served 7 years
for Rachael, was deceived with Leah and served yet
7 other years for Rachael (Genesis, xxix). Pharoah
dreamed of 7 "well favored kine and fatfieshed" and
of 7 "ill favored and leanfleshed kine that did eat up
the 7 well favored and fat kine." He also dreamed of
The Number 7(Contnued) 241
7 ears of corn upon 1 stalk, and 7 thin and blasted
earS which devoured the full ears. Both of these
dreams' Joseph correctly interpreted as 7 years of
plenty followed by 7 years of famine (Genesis, xli).
There were 7 days of unleavened bread (Exodus, xii,
15), and 7 Sabbaths were ordained (Lev., xxiii, 15).
The children of Israel followed 7 priests blowing 7
trumpets for 7 days in their march around the city
of Jericho and on the last day encompassed the city 7
times crc its walisfell (Joshua, vi). Wisdom buildeth
her house out of 7 pillars (Rev., ix). There are 7
"gifts of the Spirit" mentioned by Isaiah (xi, 2) as
follows; Wisdom, Understanding, Counsel, Might,
Knowledge, Fear (Awe) of the Lord (Law), and
Righteous Judgment.
In the New TeslainenS, aswe have pointed out else-
where,T "The Man upon the cross spoke seven sen-
tences symbolizing the - seven steps of Initiation."
"Father forgive them; for they know not what they
do. * * * Today shalt thou be with me in paradise.
***Woii.,beholdthey.*** MyGod,myGod,
why hast thou forsaken me? * * * thirst * * * fl is
finished. * * * Father, into Thy hands I commend my
spirit."
"Man has his seven Principles, each of which is
derived from and ruled over by one of these seven
Planetary Angels, called by St John 'the angels of
the seven churches.' Also, 'you have the seven
Angelic Planes, whose "Host" collectively are the
Gods thereof.'"' Man and Nature are akin, and
while each man contains emanations from all the 7
creative Rays' manifested through his 7 Principles,
still in each man 1 influence or Ray predominates. This
fact naturally divides mankind into 7 main classes of
thought, designated by St. John, as we indicated in a
previous-lesson,1' as the 7 "churches." "These 7 great
See Ieuon Th.. Meeeeeg of *o Cross.
S. D., II 251.
v..' 1.. xiii.
Tks Rev.lesiee of SS. J.M..
242 The Key to the Universe
modes of viewing Truth are subdivided ad libitum.
* * * The many subdivisions agree with the manifold
character of the planetary influences, which vary with
each hour of the day."
"This idea of the seven fold division of the universe
is esoterically represented in Revelation by 'the seven
churches which are in Asia.' These were at Ephesus,
Smyrna, Pergamos, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia and
Laodicea. These names were made use of more to
illustrate the inner truth than as applying to the his-
torical cities, aitho the churches in those cities may
have manifested the types of thought indicated, just
as \Vall Street in New York is used to symbolize the
power of money. The inner truth so symbolized has,
of course, seven keys by which it can be read, one
interpretation being that the seven churches refer to
the seven principal ganglia or centers of the human
nervous system, another to the seven steps of Initia-
tion."1'
"A 'church' signifies an aggregation of people of
similar thought, and here we find all humanity divided
into seven great classes or types called 'churches.' The
words 'which are in Asia' are merely an euphonious
blind, for we find that these seven 'churches' or types
4 humanity have existed in various parts of the world
for ages. And they always will exist, for, as we have
shown in the lesson on Evolution,1' mankind is the
progeny or emanation from seven great Creators or,
as the Bible terms them, the Elohim. * * * And as
we showed in that same lesson, all mankind are emana-
tions from one of these seven great spiritual Progen-
itors or, as St. John terms them, 'The seven Spirits
which stood before his throne.' This throne, which is
spoken of later on" as 'a great white throne,' is the
perfect white light of the Divine into which all its
manifestations (rays) are ultimately indrawn and
'IeuoTh Tk. S,viis Ch.vche,.
V .1 1., Cbapssr xlii.
The Number 7(Conhinued) 243
enthroned. Hence, of necessity, there must be in the
world seven distinct classes of religious thought, each
trying to manifest the characteristics of the Ray of
which it is an expression."
"Not only have there been, since the world began,
seven representative schools of thoughtfirst under
one name and then, as times change, under another
but every child is born with a type of mind over which
the influence of one of these great Rays predominates.
* * * Therefore, to confine the seven 'churches' to
the handful of apostolic adherents in the historical
cities whose names are mentioned, is to lose the univer-
sal significance of the revelation."
"The seven golden candlesticks which St. John saw
symbolized the outer garments or the physical vehicles
or methods by which the seven manifestations of the
Light of Truth are placed before man. The seven can-
dies symbolize the seven different types of teaching
which the seven candlesticks (churches) uphold before
the world, and by which the Flame or Spiritual Light
is given to humanity, the Light in all cases being iden-
tical, aitho produced by different candles."4
U 5cc Iccuca Tk .Rs,iMßio. of St. bk...
CHAPTER 27
THE NUMBER 7(Continued).
The Number of Perfeaots(Continued).
"And I saw in the right hand of him that sat
on the throne a book written within and on the
backside, sealed with seven seals. * * * And I
beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne and of
the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders,
stood a lamb as it bad been slain, having seven
horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits
of God sent forth into all the earth.
RvsIalion, v, l-6
The book of Revek4on abounds in the use of 7 in
reference to completion, such as the 7 vials of the 7
last plagues; the 7 trumpet calls; the 7 thunders; the
sounding of the 7 angels; the 7 kings, 5 of whom are
fallen; the beast with the 7 heads, etc.
As we have said elsewhere: "The book mentioned
in our text is the great Book of Life (Akashic Rec-
ords), with its seven fold manifestations, so frequently
referred to in scriptural and occult literature. Within
this Great Book is written all that is to manifest during
the cyde which begins when the word is spoken, Let
there be light', and the Spirit of Life moves upon
the face of the waters of Chaos. The seven seals are
the seven manifestations of the One Life; in the solar
system, the seven cosmic centers of force or powers of
the Heavenly Man and the seven great Day-periods
or Rounds; in humanity the seven Great Races, and in
man, made in the image of the seven fold Elohim,
the seven sacred centers of his body and his seven
stages of growth. Just as a stone thrown into a calm
pool sets up ever widening waves of vibration, so the
Light shot out into the darkness of Chaos causes a
The Number of Perfecto-(Continued) 24.5
seven fold wave of manifestation throughout the
Cosmos.
"The Great Book as applied to man is his body with
its seven sacred centers. It is sealed with seven seals
because, aitho individually man can open these centers
as he evolves godward, for humanity as a whole they
open only as it passes through the seven Great Races,
each of which opens to man a new sense, new condi-
tions and new experiences. These centers are the
avenues through which man comes into conscious com-
munion with the higher realms, but they are sealed until
through normal growth he has evolved to a point
where he can control and utilize them."1
The fact that the Great Book of the Akashic Rec-
ords is sealed with 7 seals which no man is worthý to
open, should effectually dispose of the claims of those
who say they have transcribed certain works directly
from the Alcashic Records. There is, however, a
reflecting medium which is mistaken by many psychics
for the Akashic Records. This reflects both from
above and below, but looked at from the earth it reflects
more from present day conditions than from the
Akashic Records, thus mixing the 2.
Number 7 when complete in man may be called The
Christ-Gift (the prototype of the Christmas gift)
which is sealed with the 7 seals of Love, Patience,
Purity, Trust, Perseverance, Endurance and Devotion.
These are the King's seals which must be opened and
manifested 1 by 1. For even if 1 remains sealed the
Neophyte will not bear the mark on his forehead
which seals him as I of the Elect
"The lamb had seven horns and seven eyes. The
born is an universal symbol of power. Horns are the
principal defense and strength of many animals,
enabling them to maintain their supremacy over those
having no horns. For this reason the Ram becomes
So. 3c.sou Th GreoS BoiL Put L
46 The Key to the Universe
the leader and defender of the flock, the sheep being
without horns. A horn symbolizes a ruler, a king or
military power. To 'exalt one's horn' or 'cause it to
bud' or grow is to strengthen and prosper. To 'lift
one's horn' is to become arrogant, to 'cut off one's
horn' is to weaken or be crushed. The horn is also a
symbol of plenty, both in the physical and spiritual life,
showing that the Ram, although slain and reborn as
the Lamb, must still lead and feed the flock through
the plenteous outpourings from its seven horns. The
seven horns symbolize the seven great powers of man,2
whose attainment are steps upon the Path to Mastery
along which The Christ-light must lead him. * *
The seven eyes, 'which are the seven Spirits of God
sent forth into all the earth', in this connection sym-
bolize that spiritual insight which is the accompaniment
and reward of such conquering,"1 or the perfected clear
seeing upon all planes, as well as the watchful care of
the Spirit.
"The seven stars in the right hand of the Ancient
of Days are the seven Cosmic Forces or Planetary
Deities. Another aspect of these same Forces is sym-
bolized by the lights of the seven candles, but in this
case they are confined to an earthly vehicle, the Light
merely shining through a limited earthly conception
for although the candlesticks are golden (pure) they
rest upon the earthwhile in the case of the stars the
Light shines direct from the Absolute. It also indi-
cates that the Great Law holds even the planets and
the Planetary Deities in its hand. 'As above, so
below,' the one Light in both stars and candlesticks.
Do not confuse this teaching with Pantheism, for it
is not. We do not teach that there are many co-equal
gods, but that there are many divine, Entitized Mani-
festations of the one God, the Absolute."
"The Great Law has two aspects, one represented
S.. Ie..on TA. Groat B..k Part L
'Sic Tks Vooca of ZÑ Chapter xii.
The Number of Perfeaion(Consinued) 247
by the seven starsthe seven rn ifestations of the
Great Law in its purityand the other represented by
the seven candlesticks or its chosen vehicles of expres-
sion on earth. These vehicles, while of gold and orig-
inally reflecting the light of the seven stars in its
purity, are nevertheless susceptible to contamination
by the mire of earth, as the rebukes given to the seven
churches in the next chapter will show."3 A candle-
stick is a specially created (manufactured) instrument
for the 1 purpose of holding a candle that the Light
may shine out to illuminate and guide humanity.
The Sep her Yetzirah agrees with occult philosophy
when it states that out of the 7 letters and the 7 num-
bers, colors, tones and the planetary forces with which
they are identified, there were created the 7 worlds,
the 7 heavens, 7 earths, 7 seas, 7 rivers, 7 deserts, 7
days, etc. The 7 worlds are the 7 globes which com-
pose a World Chain. Among Kabalists these 7 worlds
are called the Original, Intelligible, Celestial, Elemen-
tary, Lesser (astral), Infernal (Kama Loka or Hades)
and the physical or TemporaL The 7 heavens are the
7 divisions or sub-planes of the Astral' (i. e., the
reflective, etheric, vital, desire, mental, inspirational
and ecstatic). The 7 earths are the 7 states of con-
sciousness experienced on earth, i. e., primitive animal
consciousness; self-consciousness; tribal or class-con-
sciousness; ethical or duty to others; astral or psychic;
spiritual or Christ-consciousness, and Universal or
Cosmic Consciousness. The 7 seas refer to the 7 states
of illusion. The 7 rivers are the 7 streams of force in
man, i. e., blood, nerve, pranic, astral, mental, psychic
and spiritual. The 7 deserts are the barren wastes of
doubts, fears, misconceptions, disappointments, disil-
lusions, poverty and ill health.
"it is on account of his septenaly nature that the
Sun is spoken of by the indents as one who is
See )on Tk 4ude .1 D.ys.
Se R,.I.S .1 sh Lv..j 1Ji. .Cti,i, 49, .50.
248 The Key to the Universe
driven by seven horses equal to the meters of the
Vedas; * * *as also that he has Seven Rays as
indeed he has. * * Seven Beings in the Sun
are the Seven Holy Ones, self-born from the rn
herent power in the Matrix of Mother-Substance.
It is they who send the seven principal Forces,
called Rays, which at the beginning of Pralaya
will center into seven new Suns for the next Man-
vantara."
The 7th Path in the Sep her Yet siroh is that of Occult
Intelligence, a combination of Faith and Intellect. In
Hinduism the Path of Perfection is made up of a
series of 7s, each 7 marking a definite step or a vic-
tory won by the Neophyte. These steps are spoken
of as Portals or Gates because the Neophyte must pass
through experiences and enter states of consciousnesr
which are dosed to him until he brings the Golden
Key to each or until he has attained the mystic power
which will open them. These 7 keys are as follows:
to the 1st Portal, Charity and all-embracing Love; to
the 2nd, Harmony and Fearlessness; to the 3rd,
Patience; to the 4th, Indifference to pleasure as to
pain; to the 5th, dauntless Energy; to the 6th, cease-
less Contemplation, and to the 7th, the Key which
opens the final gate, whose entrance makes of man
a God.
Number 7 is held to represent magic in its fulness.
Eliphas Lvi says: "The virtue of the Septenary is
absolute in magic for the number is decisive in all
things; hence all religions have consecrated it in their
rites." In other words man (5), through the power
of The Christ-force (6), in number 7 has claimed his
heritage. He can now stand upon the Foundation
Stone (4) and allow the Divine Triangle (3) to pour
down its triune blessings upon his head. The 5 pointed
star has gained 2 more pointsthe rod by which man
holds his 5 powers in his right hand, and the Dot in
'S.D.. I, 310. TrmceadsiiS.IU.gk75.
The Number of Perfection(Conts'nued) 249
the center which synthesizes all hIs powers tbe true
magic pentagram. (Fig. 7.) It is man's mind rein-
forced by all the elementary potencies.
Fig. T
"Viewed as a compound of 6. and 1, the Senaryand
the Unity, number 7 was the invisible center, the Spirit
of everything, as there exists no hexagonal body with-
out a seventh property being found as the central point
in it."'
The symbol of a star with 7 points was sometimes
used In ancient temples and Schools of Mysteries, but
it was used as an exoteric blind; for It was well known
by the initiated Priests that a 7 pointed star was not a
true symbol. A star with 7 points would necessarily
focus the forces which the points contacted into a
central point, thus giving the figure an 8 fold power.
This symbol was used to instruct the Neophyte in
the perfection of number 7 and to instill into his mind
a reverence for its potencies, while the force invoked
was that of number 8, which is both evolution, balance
and poise, all of which are qualities necessary for
initiation. But until he had passed his Initiation the
'S.D.. 11.636.
250 The Key to the Universe
6 pointed star with its central Dot could not be
entrusted to him, lest he misuse its potencies and
powers. Hence in true esoteric symbolism there is no
7 pointed star, as it cannot be formed by the combi-
nation of any 2 simple geometrical figures, aitho it is
sometimes seen in exoteric emblems. The geometrical
symbol of number 7 is the interlaced triangles with
the Dot in the center , the Dot being the
same germinal point we found within the circle, or
the creative nucleus of the mundane egg which has
evolved during its 6 day-periods of creation through
nature and man and become the synthesized focal point
for the forces of its 6 manifestations. As 0 repre
sents Deity as the source of all so represents
Deity manifesting through the perfect unfolding and
balancing of the positive and negative triangles
described under number 6. The 6 points represent
the 6 days required to bring forth the microcosm, while
the Dot within is the Throne upon which the Deity
'sts on the 7th day and pronounces all His works
good. As the Dot in the circle represents the Throne
of Deity in the macrocosm, so the Dot in the 6 pointed
star represents the Throne of Deity established and
manifesting in the microcosm. The Dot in the center
repcesents the Soul of all things, as the star represents
the body, for there is no body which 6 lines or the 6
directions of spacenorth, south, east, west, up, down
will not enclose, and which is not an outward mani-
festation of the 7th point in the cenuer. This symbol
therefore represents the peifected spiritual orNirinana.
kaya body when attained.
The Number of Perfection(Continued) 251
"In its Unity, Primordial Light is the seventh,
or highest, principle, Daiviprakriti, the Light of
the Unmanifested Logos. But in its differentia-
tion, it becomes Fohat, or the 'Seven Sons.' The
former is symbolized by the central point in the
Double Triangle; the latter by the Hexagon itself,
or the 'Six Limbs' of Microprosopus, the Seventh
being Malkuth, the 'Bride' of the Christian Kabal-
ists.'
By the Essenes this symbol is called the Seal of
Solomon, for they recognized Solomon as the person-
ification of esoteric Wisdom. And to this day, even
among Christian peoples it is still looked upon as a
powerful talisman, especially in Russia and Poland.
The Pythagoreans called it the symbol of creation and
the Egyptians similarly looked upon it as the union of
fire (3) and water (4) or generation.
The 7th Sephira is called Netzach, '1Firmness and
Victory, corresponding to the divine name Jehovah
Tzabaoth, the Lord of Hosts and the angelic names
Elohim and Tharshism, the Brilliant Ones." Hence
man can evolve intellectually to a point where he can
unfold the 6 Sephira, that is, he can intertwine the
divine attributes with the physical and thus become, the
magic symbol of Solomon's Seal, the Seal of Wisdom.
But until he has unfolded or manifested the 7th point
and gained a complete Victory; until he has fixed his
gaze upon the Star of Initiation, The Christ-sun, and
made that the center from which all his works pro-
ceed, he may be a magician with mighty power, but he
is not accepted as a White Magician. The 6 repre-
sents wonderful intellectual development, but it must
recognize, accept and respond to the Spiritual Over-
shadowing or the Divine Illumination of the Dot in the
center, crc the perfection of 7 is reached.
"The seventh key is the hieroglyph of the sacred
septenary, of royalty, of the priesthood (the In-
itiate), of triumph and true result by struggle. -
! S.D. 1 236.
252 The Key to the Unwerse
It is magic power in all it, force, the true 'Holy
Kingdont' In the Hermetic Philosophy it is the
quintessence resulting from the union of the two
forces of the Jreat Magic Agent (Akasba, the
In the Greek legend Minas, King of Crete,
demanded every 9th year a toll of 7 youths and 7
maidens who were sacrificed to Minatour, a monster
with the body of a man and the head of a bull. This
monster was confined in a labyrinth, in whose passages
any of the victims who attempted to escape lost their
way and were eventually devoured. When the time
for the 3rd sacrifice drew near, Theseus, taking the
place of the youths and maidens, went to Crete to
slay the Monster. At his landing, Ariadne, the
daughter of Minas and granddaughter of the Sun-god
Hellos, fell in love with Theseus and gave him a thread
which he unwound as he proceeded and thus was
enabled to find his way out of the labyrinth after slay-
ing the Monster.
This myth symbolizes the positive (masculine) and
the negative (feminine) aspects of the 7 planetary
Hierarchies through which the great tests of humanity
are brought out. Since the bull symbolizes the sign
Taurus and the generative power, the meaning is that
the man whose passions (bull) rule and dominate the
body (occupy the seat of government, the head), is
confined and shut in on every side by the labyrinth of
earth conditions. In other words, animal man while
evolving through the lower aspects of forces sym-
bolized by the 3 decans of Taurus, degrades and
devours the most beautiful planetary influences, until
the close of the 3rd cycle or 3rd great Initiation, when
the Real Self (Theseus)., by following the thread of
Love and Intuition given him by the feminine aspect
or daughter of the Sun (the 3rd decan of Taurus being
'5. D.. III. 506.
The Number of Perfection(Contùrued) 253
ruled by Venus), is able to slay the Monster and set
the planetary influences free from the domination of
the animal-man, that they may accomplish their true
mission of opening to the initiated man the gates of
Paradise or the New Jerusalem.
Among the Greeks the sun is portrayed as a chariot
drawn by 7 horses, representing the 7 planetary Hier-
archies or Rays. And, in the myth, Phaethon, the
mortal son of Hellos the Sun-god, essays to drive this
chariot of the sun, with disastrous results. The
meaning of this allegory isthat man must perfect his
7 principles and his 7 powers on earth and become
more than mortal ere he can safely hold the reins and
control the 7 planetary forces. It also refutes a pop-
ular modern teaching, s. e., that because man has a
divine Father he is therefore, now in his present unde-
veloped state, a god with all the powers of a god suc-
cessfully to negotiate the circle of the zodiac in his
own strength. The fate of those who espouse this
doctrine is as certain as was Phaethon's, for like him
they must face all the monsters of the zodiac, espe-
cially Scorpio which caused the disaster to Phaethon.
As the legend reads, "Here the Scorpion extended
his two great arms, with his tail and crooked claws
stretching over two signs of the Zodiac (Virgo and
Scorpio which were formerly one sign and represented
in Syrio-Chaldean magic as God and the Devil). When
the boy beheld him, reeking with poison and menac-
ing with his fangs, his courage failed and the reins
fell from his hands." 20 The test of Scorpiothe test
of sexis thus fitly described. It is under this test
that so many self-styled gods in mortal frame fail.
And as with Phaethon the fiery steeds of thought run
away with them and they are dashed to earth.
The dragons and serpents of antiquity were all 7
beaded, as was the Beast of the A fiocalyps, a head for
The 4s. .1 P.bl.. BuISnc2a, 34.
254 The Key to the Universe
each of the 7 Races, and had 7 hairs on each head,
representing the 7 sub-races of each Great Race. The
4 Dragons of Wisdom were composed of 7 constella-
tions each. The 7 Northern constellations made up the
Black Warrior; the 7 Eastern, the White Tiger; the 7
Southern, the Vermillion Bird, and the 7 Western, the
Azure Dragon. The 7 headed Aklcadian Serpent
whose heads multiplied from 7 into 1000, fitly sym-
bolizes the 7 Principles of man and nature, with their
manifold aspects. Number 7 was also held sacred to
several gods, for instance, Osiris, whose .body was
cut into 2x7 pieces; Mars and his 7 attendants; Apollo
and his 7 stringed lyre, etc.
CHAPTER 28
THE 7 PRINCIPLES OF MAN
The One Life is, as explained, a Film for crea-
tive or formative purposes. It manifests in seven
states, which, with their septenary subdivisions
ire the Forty-nine Fires mentioned in the sacred
I)oolcs. To Man it gives all that it bestows on
all the rest of the manifested units in Nature;
but develops, furthermore, the reflection of all its
'Forty-nine Fires' in him. Each of his seven prin-
ciples is an heir in full to, and a partaker of, the
seven principles of the 'Great Mother'."
Th. Secret Doctriia,, Blavatsky, Vol. I, 310.
The 7 Principles of which man is composed, from
the densest and most material to the highest and most
spiritual, are as follows:
Th ist Principle. The Physical Body.
While the physical body is the lowest expression of
the Real or Divine Self it is 1 of the most important.
Aitho at the opposite pole from Spirit it nevertheless
has within it the centers in and through which each of
the higher Principles must focus to manifest on earth.
The body therefore should not be looked upon as a
hampering garment to be despised and escaped from
as soon as possible, for it is an instrument which is
absolutely necessary for the manifestation of the
Higher Self and without which it cannot accomplish
its mission in the physical world. The viewpoint of
Christian Mysticism is therefore just the opposite
to much teaching that passes for true Oriental phil-
osophy. Because the animal body is passionate, seduc-
tive, self-willed, hard to train and control until it has
been purified, spiritualized and made the willing serv-
256 The Key to the Unwerse
ant of the Real Man, many Eastern students seek to
weaken it, maim it, or even kill out its natural forces,
that they may ultimately escape from the bondage of
the flesh and from rebirth. But the Christian Mystic
seeks to perfect it in every part and have every function
in its highest state of activity that it may be a perfect
instrument, well knowing that rebirth must continue
until he has built up a perfected and spiritualized
organism through which perfectly to express The
Christ-force for the redemption of himself, his fellow-
men and the lower kingdoms.
The physical body is made in the image of the Spir-
itual Body of the Real Man. It is therefore an organ-
ism in which all the creative energies of the 7 fold
Elohim are synthesized and through which they must
manifest. Hence the Soul must again and again build
a physical body, until ultimately it builds 1 which can
perfectly express the Divine Man. It may be compared
to a switchboard containing terminals for the ramifica-
tions of a mighty electrical system, some of its cur-
rents connecting it with the higher Principles and all
parts of the universe, even the distant planets, all of
which affect and manifest through the physical body.
The 2nd Principle, The Astral Body and Its Double.
The Astral Body projects its shadow or double from
the Astral World into the mother's womb as a pattern,
and into the meshes of this pattern the physical ma-
terials composing the flesh and bone of the future man
are built. Its focal point in the physical body is in the
spleen. The Astral Body is the seat of sensations,
which are transmitted to and from the physical body
by its double, and operate through the nerves. The
Astral Body and its double are material bodies of a
sort, so material that, under certain conditions, they
can be photographed with an ordinary camera, but the
matter composing them is more tenuous, ethereal and
of a higher rate of vibration than physical matter. It
7c dcta,ia lec Raiiuj 01 th, Livut D,4. Curtiii 57.
The 7 Principles of Man 257
is -so plastic that it is capable of being acted upon from
within by the Real Self, from the mental world through
thought, from the passional world of the Animal -Soul
through the emotions and from the physical world
through the nerves. It is also easily affected by the
vibrations from the beings and forces in all the realms
of the astral world.
It is the semi-material substance (called ectoplasm)
of this astral double which exudes from a medium at
a materializing séance, its plastic condition allowing it
to be moulded into a model of itself by the discarnate
entity who desire to manifest, or it can even be
moulded into form by the thoughts of the sitters. The
form thus materialized is connected to the medium by
a cord of ectoplasm the rupture of which would mean
death to the medium. Hence it is dangerous to pass
between a materialized form and its medium. The
astral double is connected to the body of the medium
by an umbilical cord which prevents its extrusion be-
yond a limited distance, while the astral body itself is
not so limited, but can travel to great distances, always
connected to the physical, however, by a line of force.
The 3rd Principle. The Life-force.
This Principle is that aspect of the 1 Life which is
sometimes called the sun-principle or prona. This
force has its seat in the physical body in the solar
plexus, its point of contact through the umbilicus and
its action through the lungs, blood and spine. Since
this Principle is a stream of force from the universal
Cosmic Life-principle or the Breath of Life, it is a
connecting link which binds all the Principles, not only
together but, through the 1 Life, to all that is in mani-
festation. It is through a perfect understanding and
control of this Principle that the Adept rules all his
lower Principles and while still in the physical body
learns to make conscious contact with the Higher
Self. This force must act according to the laws of
258 The Key to the Universe
harmony and purity and be under the guidance of the
Divine Will or it will be like steam escaping fron!
leaks in a boiler. 1st, it fails to give its power to the
engine (body), which consequently slows down, grows
weak, devitalized and ultimately stops; 2nd, it acts
as a destroyer, just as escaping steam fills the engine?
room, rusts the engine and becomes a menace to the
engineer (the Real Self). Therefore this Principle
of the Life-force is the creator or bringer of life to
the physical and astral bodies, the preserver and regu-
lator of life and vitality, and finally the destroyer.
During the lower stages of developmentas in the
animal and undeveloped manthis force is guided by
the subconscious mind according to the law of har-
mony. But in the higher stages where mind is more
active, its normal currents and actions are interfered
with by man's impure thoughts, habits and desires,
also by anything that defiles the breath. Hence we
have physical inharmony, sickness and disease, as
manifestations or stages in the process of disinte-
gration.
The 4th Principle. The Desire Body or Aniriwi Soul.
This Principle, together with the physical and astral
bodies and the life-force, completes the 4 fold Foun-
dation Stone laid by the Higher Self in the physical
world. For only as the Divine Ray sent down into
matter can find a foundation composed of the elements
belonging to the worlds in which it seeks expression,
can it manifest there and garner the experiences of
those worlds. Therefore its earthly instrument of
manifestation is built up just as is a house. 1st, the
plan or pattern is conceived and the framework
erected, the outer structure is built around it, the life-
force warms it and then the Animal Soul, like a
The 7 Frindples of Man 259
janitor, takes charge. Then it is ready for occupancy
by the owner, the Real Self.
The Animal Soul (Kana) indudes the animal de-
sires, passions, sensations and the subconscious mind,
together with the desires, passions and emotions
brought to it from the astral and mental worlds; for
the astral can transmit both the good from above and
the evil from below. The subconscious mind, com-
posed of the synthesis of the consciousness of each cell,
organ, nerve center and force in these lower bodies,
is the means by which the Animal Soul rules over all
the bodily functions. It is also the regulator and
ruler of the waves of life-force and the breath in the
body, and through them keeps the body in health. It
also correlates all the desires, emotions and sensations
which will cement the 4 lower Principles together and
make a firm foundation on which the 3 higher Prin-
ciples may build their Temple of the Living God. In
short, this is the Stone which the buildersboth Ori-
ental and Christian teachershave heretofore rejected,
because apparently so hopelessly perverted by man's
wrong thinking and so impregnated with disintegra-
tion and death, but which ultimately must become, 1st
for the individual and then for the Race, the "head-
stone, of the corner."
The Animal Soul has its seat in the liver and a
point of contact in the sexcenters, while it rules the
body through the brain of the subconscious mind, the
Solar Plexus. It must gather strength and power
from all sensations, desires and experiences and de--
vote all its life-forces to the 1 end, namely, toward
erecting the Temple in which The Christ may dwell
among men, and from which The Christ-radiance may
send forth its redeeming power to all the kingdoms.
The Animal Soul is, therefore, the synthesis of the 4
lower Principles, overshadowed by the Rational Mind
260 The Key to the Universe
(Lower Manas). But when it attracts to itself and
holds captive the Rational Mind through animal de-
sire, it becomes the personal tempter (Kanza-nuinas).
The desires and appetites of this Animal Soul, which
in the animal kingdom are perfectly normal when
ruled by the Group Soul of the species through in.
stinct, in the human kingdom must be ruled by the
Rational Mind. But under the liberty allowed by
human free-will they tend to run wild and follow their
own inclinations. They thus often enhance and mag-
nify the normal animal instincts and seduce and drag
man down below the level of the beasts. This is the
great fight in man; the Animal Soul seeking to gratify
unrestrainedly its natural appetites, and the Higher
Self endeavoring to make it follow the higher path
through the guidance of the Rational Mind. It is
this Animal Soul that must be curbed, made to occupy
its true place and become the faithful servant of the
Rational Mind, as the latter must be the faithful serv-
ant of the Super-conscious Mind or the mind of the
Higher Self.'
The 5th Prindple. Mind (Monas) or Spiritual Self-
Consciousness.
Mind is the 3rd aspect of the Divine Triangle or
Trinity, Atma-Buddhi-Manas, the Immortal Self, the
Soul, the Father-in-heaven, which overshadows the
human personality; "the three-tongued Flame that
never dies." The true Mind, therefore, transcends its
lower expression, Intellect, to a far greater degree
than Intellect transcends Instinct. This Principle is
usually presented only in its dual aspect of Higher
and Lower Mind or Manes. While this division is
correct as far as it goes, it leaves much to be desired;
for in reality Mind, like all the Principles, is septenary,
with 3 main divisions corresponding to body, mind
' For further d,cussion of the ,ubconscious mind, ee V. of 1,
90. 167. 206.
The 7 Principle.c of Man 261
and. Spirit, i. e., the Subconscious, the Rational and the
Spiritual or Super-conscious Mind.
Much confusion has been caused by exoteric writers
classing all mental and' psychic manifestations not
attributable to the mind of the ordinary waking con-
sciousness, as belonging to the subconscious mind,
thus trying to account for both animal instinct and
the most spiritual inspiration and ecstasy as coming
from the same source.: Such a.manifestly absurd con-
clusion is easily avoided if we. remember that the
prefix .rub. means under or below. Therefore the word
subconscious should be used to designate only. those
aspects of Mind which lie below the threshold of the
Rational Mind. These include the. consciousness of
the individual cells and organs, together with animal
instinct, which constitutes the mind of the Animal
Soul, and from which we can never expect to receive
inspiration and spiritual guidance, for the latter nwst
come from above.
The Rational Mind is the ordinary 'waking con-
sciousness which functions through the Intellect, and
has its seat in the cortex of the brain. It is the mid-
dle aspect of Mind, and like the middle number (5)
it marks the difference between the human and the
lower kingdoms, but overshadowing and blending into
them through its subconscious aspect, just as it in
turn is overshadowed by, an4 is capable of blending
into, the Super-conscious Mind.
All the lower kingdoms are under the dominion of
man's thought. When self-consciousness awoke, the
Rational Mind was given, control over instinct, and
should therefore stand upright on the Foundation
Stone and guide all the lower Principles. But until the
Rational Mind is enlightened from above and realizes
its responsibility,.it only too often revels in the desires
of the Animal Soul and lends its higher intellectual
262 The Key to the Universe
powers to enhance and degrade what should be but a
nonnal animal instinct.
The Spiritual or Super-conscious Mind is the real
5th Principle which overshadows the personality, and
whose informing ray makes man an intellectual and
rational, instead of an instinctive, animal. Hence only
when its 2 lower and limited aspects have become
united with the higher, and the Higher Self or Soul
has perfect control over its instrument, the personality,
has man reached number 10. From 1 to 5 the lower
kingdoms struggle toward self-consciousness, but from
5 to 10 man fights the battle allegorized in all scrip-
tures under various names, such as the war in heaven,
Armageddon, etc., but all referring to the war between
the Higher and lower selves for the control of the
personality. The 1st great battle is won when the
Spiritual Mind is able to inspirenot forcethe per-
sonality to respond to its overshadowing love and
wisdom, and the Rational Mind sees the desirability
and logical necessity of setting out in earnest to climb
the heights to its Father's home. Thus life after life
the Spiritual Mind reaches down into the experiences
of earth life, sifting and weighing them and storing
up the good, the beautiful and the true to be blended
with the 6th Principle, overshadowed and illumined
by the 7th, the 1 Ray of the Divine. When thus
blended and illumined it becomes the Immortal Self,
the Higher Self, the personal god, the highest point
of attainment for each individual. When thus blended
with the 6th and 7th Principles the Mind is also the
Reincarnating Ego "with a form (rupa), which pre-
vails during the whole life cycle of the Fourth Round,
while its Sosie, or resemblance, the personal Ego, has
to win its immortality ;" for. the 4 lower Principles,
since they pertain to the physical world, are mortal
and perishable until redeemed.
a 5 V.. U. 30.
The 7 Priniiples of Man 263
The Higher Self, being purely spiritual, can have no
direct consciousness in the physical world. Hence to
enable it to complete its manifestation in all worlds
and to become a redeemer it must send down a Ray
of itself into the human-animal body that through this
expression in matter it may complete its Destiny. This
Ray is called the Antaskarana, the bridge which joins
the lower to the higher, the earthly to the Divine. It
is also called the bridge across the "Great Abyss" over
which the pilgrim must cross to the "eternal shore,"
for it is over this Ray from the Spiritual Mind that
the Rational Mind of man must send every aspiration
of the heart, together with the ultimate lesson of good
out of every condition experienced by it or the Animal
Soul. During each life the Higher Self thus garners
all the spiritual experiences of its Ray or reflection,
and upon its withdrawal rests in the bosom of the
Father, while the Animal Soul, with all that has not
been redeemed, disintegrates.
"The essence of the Divine Ego is 'pure
flame,' an entity to which nothing can be added
and from which nothing can be taken; it can-
not, therefore, be diminished, even by countless
numbers of lower minds, detached from it like
flames from a flame."
The story of the crucifixion is an allegory of the
fate of the 5th Principle, for just as the Divine must
take upon itself individuality in the World of Forma-
tion by embodying a Ray from Itself in the Spiritual
Mind or Higher Manas, so in turn must this divine
Son take upon itself personality, become flesh and
temporarily be separated from its Father. It is this
Ray, therefore, which makes itself responsible
(through its lower expressions) for all the sins of its
various personalities. This is the real vicarious atone-
ment. Hence the "abyss" is often described as inhab-
'S. P.. IlL 311.
264 The Key to the Unverse
ited by monsters of evil seeking to clutch the pilgrim
Ray and pull it down as it strives to cross the bridge
to its Father's home. Again, the Antaskarana is the
cross by means of which The Christ-principle is ex-
pressed in matter. It is diagrammatically expressed
thus:
This truth, altho for ages holding a most important
place in mysticism, was suppressed by the early
Church as bearing too dose a resemblance to the story
of Jesus, which is but an allegory expressing this same
truth.
In another sense the Spiritual Mind is the mansion
in heaven prepared for its lower expression or son,
that where the Father is there may the son be also.
But it is the son or personality who must furnish this
mansion by the pure thoughts, aspirations and lessons
which the Rational Mind of each personality is all the
time storing up in the Spiritual Mind. At the next
incarnation the Spiritual Mind again sends down a
Ray and builds up another personality which embodies
as inherent faculties all the experiences gained and
powers unfolded during the previous incarnation.
In the gospel allegory the Trinity or Spiritual Soul
is called the Father who sent his only begotten Son
(lower manas or Rational Mind) into earth condi-
tions, not only to express th divine attributes of his
Father, but also, when 1 with his Father, to become
the Redeemer by giving up his life or Christ-force that
literally, "whosoever believeth on him, shall not perish
The 7 Principles of Ma 265
but have eternal life." That is, whosoever beliéveth
that the Mind is a Ray from the Divine Mind given
to man as a means by which he can garner wisdom out
of experience; through whose illumination he can up.
lift, inform and redeem all beneath him; also as a
means to find and become 1 with his divine Father;
such an 1 can never perish or be separated from his
Father, and will ultimately cross the Antaskarana in
safety and dwell forever in the bosom of the Father.
Then the abyss will no longer exist for him, for it has
been swallowed up and he has become "the way, the
truth and the life."
The Spiritual Mind has its seat in the body at the
Spiritual Heart, a secret point back of the breast,
which corresponds to the physical heart; the heart
being the seat of physical life and the Spiritual Heart
being the seat of the spiritual life. Its organ in the
body is the pineal gland..
The 6th Principle. The Christ-Principle or Spfritual
Soul (Buddhij.
Strictly speaking, the Spiritual Soul is the highest
Principle, as the Divine Ray is no Principle, but an
outpouring of the all-pervading and universal Essence
of the 1 Flame, the Absolute, the Cause of all the
Principles. Just as the Rational Mind is a vehicle
for the Ray from the Spiritual Mind, so the Spiritual
Soul is the vehicle for the Ray from the Divine.
While it is generally classified as The Christ-principle
this is more or less of an exoteric blind, for The Christ-
principle is the Great Creative Principle or aspect of
the Divine on all planes. It becomes the creator of
spiritual differentiation only when individualized and
manifesting through the Spiritual Soul and SpirituaI
Mind or Higher Self. It manifests in the Divine
World as creative ideation, in the mental world as the
266 The Key tO the Universe
creative power of thought and in the physical world
as the power of fertilization or sex.
The Spiritual Soul can have no manifestation or
consciousness in the lower worlds except through the
Spiritual Mind and its various Rays. When the Spir-
itual Soul and the Spiritual Mind are blended and il-
lumined by the Divine Ray they become the Divine
Trinity, the Higher Self, or Reincarnating Ego. The
Spiritual Soul stands to each of its expressions or
personalities in the same relation that the Universal
Soul stands to each individualized Spiritual Soul. It
is not human but Divine and therefore immortal, "a
Pillar of Light," an incarnation of 1 of the 7 Flames.
It cannot complete its expression in the lower worlds
and become a redeemer, however, until it clothes itself
with and manifests through a human body.
Its seat is not in the physical body, but in the astral
body. It contacts the physical body directly ouly
when the psychic center in the middle of the forehead
the radium center (Realization)is awakened.
The 7th Principle. The Divine or At,n.
This is called the 7th Principle merely for purposes
of exoteric classification, as it is not a Principle of
Man, but a Ray of pure Spirit from the Absolute. It
can contact the human body only as the higher astral
centers are consciously awakened and then made sub-
servient to reaching into the higher realms where the
Divine holds sway.
Just as the 7 notes of music are completed and syn-
thesized in the 8th note, which leads into a new octave,
50 are the 7 Principles of Man synthesized in the Aura.
This is sometimes called the 7th Principle, but in real-
ity it is the synthesis of all, having a point of contact
incaciL
CHAPTER 29
THE 7 PLEIADES AND THE 7 RISHIS.
«Canst thou bind the sweet influences of the
Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion?"
Job, xxxviii, 31.
"There I beheld seven stars, like great blazing
mountains, and like spirits entreating me."
Book of Enoch, xviii, 14.
The constellation Taurus, the Bull, contains over
400 stars, among which there are said to be more bright
stars than in any other constellation, and chief among
which are the 7 Pleiades and their sisters the 5 Hyades.
And since in every age this constellation has been a
favorite theme for myth and allegory, we may well
expect to find an important occult significance con-
nected with it.
One myth is that these 12 sisters saw their brother
Hyas killed by a snake while hunting in Lybia.1 They
lamented his death so passionately that Zeus, out of
compassion, translated them into stars-5 into the
Hyades in the head and 7 into the Pleiades in the neck
of the Bull. The Hyades are called "the rainy ones"
and the greatest importance is attached to this group
when it rises at the .ame time as the sun, namely dur-
ing the month of May, at which time the rainy season
begins. We therefore find that among the ancients
the Hyades represent the fertilizing principle of mois-
ture. They symbolize the feminine or astral aspect of
the 5 senses, which lament that their brother (the phy-
sical senses) is so deadened by the snake of matter
and the perversion of the creative powers, that they
are cut off from him and must remain in the higher
'Fast.. Ovid. v, 165.
268 The Key to the Universe
realms; that he can no longer commune with them
except as he reaches up into the heaven world. They
continually exert, however, the gentle moisture of their
fertilizing prindple which like dew falls from heaven
or the astral world and helps man to find the 7 spir-
itual senses represented by the Pleiades. The physi-
cal and astral senses should be in such harmonious
accord and development that when we see a physical
object we should also see its astral counterpart; when
we bear a physical sound we should also hear its astral
expression, and so on with each of the other senses.
Another myth has it that the 7 Pleiades and their
mother met the hunter Orion 1 day in the woods.
The sight of their beauty so inflamed his desires that
for 5 years he pursued them through the dense forest,
now losing sight of them and now seeing them flying
before him. Finally Zeus in pity turned them into
white doves which flew to heaven and were translated
into stars, altho during the flight 1 dove was lost
among the "wandering rocks." Homer in the Odyssey
(xii, 6) alludes to them as "The doves who brought
ambrosia from the West." Since doves always sym-
bolize the Spirit, we have no difficulty in connecting
the Pleiades with spiritual forces or the perfection and
spiritualization of man's 7 senses. While the Spiritual
Sun rises in the mystical East we are told that it must
shine "even unto the West." And it is man who, by
the unfoldment of his 7 spiritual senses, must bring
back from the farthest point of manifestation (mat-
ter) the ambrosia or sustenance of the gods with
which to nourish his immortal body.
Orion is represented in mythology as a giant with
a girdle, a sword, a lion's skin and a club, while his
dog Sirius follows him and the Pleiades fly before
him. Orion here represents man in pursuit of the
higher attainments of the spiritual senses. He is in-
The 7 Pleiadei and the 7 RishLs 29
deed a giant girded with strength. A girdle is a sym-
bol of a priestly office. Thus, when Aaron and his
son were anointed as priests (Exodus xxxix, 29) they
received the girdle of linen thread of 3 colors, blue,
purple and scarlet, as does the Brahmin boy in India
today when initiated into his caste. "As the Celtic
word for a Belt is 'Crios,' so the Celtic name for christ
is 'Crios-d,' meaning 'Belt-God.' This Belt named all
Druids, who were identified with the Sun and his con-
tinuous activity. * * * All words like Belt, Gir-th,
Ban-d and Gir-d name the same daily orbit of the
sun, which in the picture-language costume of the
Druids was the Gilded Belt."2 The girdle is also a
covenant of strength and represents the current of
spiritual force which circles around man's body just
below the breasts. Thus Isaiah says: "I will clothe
him with thy robe, and strengthen him with thy gir-
dle" (xxii, 21). Again, "And righteousness shall be
the girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of
his reins" (xi,5). Also, the Son of.Man who stood
in the midst of the 7 candlesticks is described in Reve-
lation (i, 13) as "Girt about the paps with a golden
girdle." For when man can hold the 7 stars in his
right hand, his girdle will be a visible current of spir-
itual life-force passing through hisheart, through the
life-center in the right breast and through the center
of illumination ir* the spinal cord opposite the heart.
The sword of Orion symbolizes the power of man's
dominion over the earth, obtained b7 fighting and
struggling with the density of physical conditions.
This is the Sword of the Spirit through whose right
Use man may win his way back to his former high
spiritual estate in Eden. The lion symbolizes spiritual
courage, strength and love, the only forcesrepre-
sented by the Lion of the tribe of Judahfound worthy
to open the seals of the Great Book of Life (Revelation
'Tlw 1.vi, LdUu. Vbaptcr 11.
270 The Key to the Universe
v, 5). We have already explained the aspect of man
represented by the lion,3 but Orion represents man as
he is today with his 5 fold development, forever pur-
suing his 7 spiritual powers with eager passion, yet
never quite able to attain them. Hence, instead of
having attained the real, inner powers of the lion, he
is able to manifest only their lower or outer expres-
sion, i. e., the lion's skin. In other words, with cour-
age, strength and love man persistently follows the
flashing wings of the spiritual doves through the sha-
dows of the forest of life, yet because his courage
partakes of recklessness, his strength is tainted with
cruelty and his love inflamed by passion he never fully
attains, and will not until he, too, finds his place in
the heaven world. Orion's dub symbolizes man's
physical power and personal will. For, alas, man too
often hopes to daiin his heritage through mere physi-
cal prowess and personal will, instead of by the use
of the Sword of Spirit. His dog Sirius represents
man's animal nature, trained to keep its appointed
place; for like a faithful dog it should follow where
man leads and be his friend and helper. As Orion
unsuccessfully pursues the heavenly doves for 5 years,
so will man unsuccessfully pursue his higher spiritual
attainments through the 5 periods during which his
physical senses rule. Only when his 6th and 7th
senses begin to unfold and Zeus transforms him into a
star and he enters the heavenly realms, will he find the
doves.
The Pleiades appear in the Northern heavens at the
beginning of Spring, and wield a mighty influence
over the earth and its inhabitants. Not only do we
find Job recognizing the power of their influence, but
it was generally taught bjr the ancient Sages that this
group ruled over the 7 Races and sub-races of man-
kind, determining also the great changes which ac-
'St. kuon Th. Gre.S 8..h. Part 1.
The 7 Plelades and the 7 Rishu 271
company the beginnings and endings of the racial and
planetary cycles.
The Hottentots worship the Pleiades, celebrating
their annual appearance above the Eastern horizon
with great rejoicing. As soon as the constellation ap-
pears all the mothers, with their children, ascend the
nearest hill and teach the children to stretch out their
arms toward the friendly stars. They also worship
the Hyades under the name Tusib, the Rain God. They
call the star the Souls of the deceased.
According to the Greek legend the Pleiades are the
7 daughters of Atlas and Pleione.4 In 1 version, all
save Merope married gods and became mothers of the
famous heroes who founded cities, nations and sub-
races. Merope married a mortal (Sisyphus) and hence
is said to hide her head in shame.
"They are * * * regarded by Madler and
others, in Astronomy, as the central group of the
system of the Milky Way. * * * The Plei-
ades (Alcyone, especially) are thus considered,
even in Astronomy, as the central point around
which our universe of fixed stars revolves, the
focus from which, and into which, the Divine
- Breath, Motion, works incessantly during the
Manvantara.'
These influences, however, must always be consid-
ered in connection with their positive aspects or execu-
tors, the 7 stars in the constellation Ursa Major or the
Great Bear.
"There were two constellations with seven stars
each. We call them the Two Bears. But the
stars of the Lesser Bear were once considered to
be the seven heads of the Polar Dragon. * * *
In Egypt the Great Bear was the constellation of
Typhon."
These stars are called the Sapta Rishi or 7
Rishis.' Altho Ursa Major was catalogued by Ptole-
'Tbeir names ire Mu,, Electre, T.y1ct, Mcyone, Ce]eno. Sterop.
sod ).!erope.
£ fl. II, 552.
'S.D.
Tbcir n.m are 4eb., Deii, Nit.snJ, JWsysSJ, ru,..
its.y.s. end CAugw.
272 The Key to the Unzverse
my as having 8 stars and by Hevelius as having 12,
nevertheless its 7 brightest stars constitute 1 of the
most characteristic figures in the Northern sky, and
are called by the Hindus "the husbands of the Pleia-
des." The fact that so many of the ancient writers
mentioned only the Pleiades, the Rishis, the Hyades
and Orion, led modern astronomers for a long time
to believe that these were the only constellations known
in those ancient days. But recent scientific discoveries
are corroborating so many of the old myths, legends
and allegories, that it is easily understood that only
these groups were mentioned by the ancients, because
these were of the greatest importance from a mystical
and occult standpoint. Modern research has plainly
shown that the stars surrounding us do not constitute
a simple, but a double system; a fact that was well
known to the Sages. For it has been shown that
many stars widely separated and apparently belonging
to separate systems, are mysteriously related to each
other, especially the Pleiades and the Great Bear. "It
seems difficult to account for the very remarkable and
unsystematized distribution of the motions, unless we
suppose that the stars form two more or less separate
systems superimposed; and it has been found possible
by assuming two drifts with suitably assigned veloci-
ties to account very satisfactorily for the observed
motions." $ During the present Iron Age it is the
masculine, positive force of these Rishis that has been
dominant, rather than the feminine force of the Plela-
des. For the influence of the Pleiades is exerted less
upon the immediate events in the mundane sphere than
upon the higher planes, yet it is always the feminine
force which brings forth the great changes which ap-
pear on earth as the dominance of the cycle of 1 sub-
race gives place to the next. For corresponding rea-
sons, during this cycle only the masculine Masters of
Ecyctop.dj. flrtwsw. VoL XXV.
The 7 Pkiades and the 7 RiSMS 273
Wisdom manifest in earth conditions, the feminine
Masters working in the higher realms.
«Meanwbfle it is the seven Rishis who mark
the time and duration of events in our septenary
Life-cycle. They are as mysterious as their sup..
posed wives, the Pleiades."
In fact, it is largely the positive and negative powers
emanating from these 2 constellations that give to
number 7 its mystical significance.
"Again number 7 is closely connected with the
Occult significance of the Pleiades S * * the 6 visible,
or the 7 actual sisters, the Pleiades, are needed
for the completion of this most secret and mys-
terious of all astronomical and religious sym.
bols."
The importance of this constellation in laying the
foundation of the universe is illustrated in the book
of Job11 when Saturn, the Great Initiator, demands of
the candidate the mystery-questions which will reveal
his knowledge of the secret cycles and the spiritual
significance of the influences emanating from the Maz-
zaroth (zodiac). The ability to understand, correlate
with and bind the sweet influences of the Pleiades is
there indicated as a necessary requirement for Initia-
tion of both man and the planet. As the Pleiades are
connected with the dosing of cyclesas their number
7, perfection, indicatesthey have to do with the tests
which each Soul must pass eve it can evolve out of 1
cycle of spiritual unfoldment into the next. Hence
to "bind" their influence means that the candidate
must have gained the power to face the Karma of his
old or closing cycle and successfully pass through the
changes which the steps of Initiation inevitably bring.
This power is gained by assimilating the sweet influ-
ences of love, compassion, faith, intrepidity, action,
patience and devotion focused by the Pleiades.
S. D., 11. 579. xxxvil-viII-Ix.
S. P.. IL 654-S.
274 The Key to the Universe
By the Hindus the Pleiades are called the nurses of
the planet Mars, the Commander of the Celestial
Armies.
In India they are connected with their nurs-
luig the war God, Kårttikeya. It was the Plel-
ades (in Sanskrit, Krittikås) who gave this name
to the God, Kârttikeya being the planet Mars,
artroiomicaIly."
This should give to the student of astrology an in-
sight into the deeper significance of that greatly ma-
ligned planet Mars; for as the Commander of the
Celestial Armies we must look to his influence for the
courage, fortitude, strength and the dauntless energy
that will carry us on to final victory. In fact the true
mystic teachings in regard to that planet will be re-
vealed to man only when the 7th Sister comes from her
hiding and begins to unroll the scroll of the 7th Great
Race.
The allegory of Niobe, the sudden death of whose
7 sons and 7 daughterssymbolizing the 7 sub-races
of the Atlanteans and their 7 branchesalso refers to
the catadysms which occur at the close of the great
Race cydes, for she was a daughter of 1 of the Pleia-
des.
Investigation by modern astronomers has confirmed
the occult teaching that at the time the Pyramid of
Cheops was built the Pleiades were directly overhead.
These were the forces drawn upon by the Giants who
accomplished that work over 31,000 years ago.
According to Stinson Jarvis: '1The 7 branches of
the (Druid) Church and the accompanying colonies
were recorded through the descent from the 7 Daiigh-
ters who named the stars of the Pleiades. The reader
will remember that the great Fire Signal which exhib-
ited the deity's Consent for further life on earth was
not given until the Pleiades were exactly overhead in
S. D.. II. 654.
The 7 Pleiades and the 7 Rishi.r 275
the night sky. The constellation was a center of the
priestly heavens, and had the most honorable position,
on the neck of the constellation TAURus, who rep-
resented the BULL and Thunder-god of England.
* * * and when Homer names this famous con-
stellation, he writes the name to make it fit the metre,
as 'PE. LE. IA. DES," using the whole word PE, to
make another syllable, and also to name the DOVE
which was always the name of Venus and the sign of
divine LO.Ve. The Druid college which prepared the
missionaries was on the island called the Island Dove
of Heaven, and the Greek name of the Dove or Pigeon
was specially made as PELEIA, and Homer's writing
it as PELEIA-DES names these stars as the 'Dove
Gods,' or Priests because all Druid missions carried
a message of Love, referred to in Job as the sweet
influences of these stars.
"The geographical uses of the Pelela-Des were
partly as follows: The 7 parts of the early church, as
spread out over the world, were here named and pic-
tured in one cluster; each S.T.AR or 'Sign of
Honor' (Anglian AR, 'Honour'), being named as a
Daughter. These Daughters are married to the male
British deities who name our week days, and they
bear children whose names are the patronymics or
father-names of great and well-known peoples, such
as Dardanus, Lacedaemon, etc.; and in this way it
becomes clear that the whole arrangement about to
be described was a part of the memory systems which
the Druids and their Branch priests used to record
all kinds of information. * * * was the inven-
tion and memory-system of the one Church, the one
Candlestick of Seven Branches, which as a picture
was not exclusively Hebraic. As we know that the
Pleiades were held sacred from Peru to Java, and that
these 7 stars received the names of the 7 branches of
276 The Key to the Universe
the church, it is dear that the system embraced the
earth."
With all this symbolic myth and legend we must
conclude that the sweet influences of the Pleiades are
something that every Soul should expect as a part of
its heritage. But they can be attained only when the
Soul is able to face the Great Initiator Saturn and
answer his questions, "Canst thou bind the sweet influ-
ences of the Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion ?"
Those sweet influences can never be ours until we can
loose the bands which hold us to the limitations of the
personality. In fact it is the loosing of these bands
which is the great purpose of evolution, and which is
indicated by the digits from 1 to 9. Only when we
reach number 9 and face our Initiation and success-
fully answer these questions can we become more
than man.
U TA. .T4,rvu L.SUri, cbapfti viii.
CHAFFER 30
THE 7m Lrrt, Zain ()
"He priduced Zain, predominant in Movement,
crowned it, combined and formed it with Gemini
in the Universe, Sivan (June) in the Year, and
the left foot of Maa.".Sepher Yetzirah1 24.
The 7th letter, Zairi (Z), i 1 of the simple letters
and is connected with the sign Gemini. Its radical
meaning is a "sword" or "weapon," while hieroglyph-
ically it means an "arrow," both the meanings suggest-
ing the idea of conquest. Just as number 7 is the
perfection of the 1st great step or period in man's cycle
of unfoldment, so this letter indicates that the forces
represented by the letters we have already studied
have reached the end of the 1st arcana, the outbreath-
ing of the 1st mother letter, air, and have laid down
certain principles which are shown in action by the
letter Zain.
Zain represents man when he has reached a step
where he can understand the underlying principles of
life, and by the power of his perfected manhood grasp
them in his hand as a weapon with which to carve his
own destiny. Only so can he rule, for the meaning
of Zain is also a "scepter." At this step in his per-
fected manhood man must become a conqueror, with
the kingly ability to rule 1st himself then all nature,
and with the power to defend, preserve and use the
mystical weapon bestowed upon every Victor, namely,
the Sword of the Spirit, or the "Fiery Sword" of the
magician.
Thus Zain is the fulßllment or perfection of that
which was breathed out by the mother Aleph, for the
278 The Key to the Universe
Victory of number 7 is attained by a complete mas-
tery of the breath. The words that are spoken must
be words of love and words of healing. The Victor
who holds the Sword or Weapon Zain in his hand
must have gained absolute control of his speech. For
in 1 sense this weapon is the mighty weapon of the
tongue, to which so many allusions are made in the
Bible. In P.raln,,s (lvii, 4) we read: "Whose teeth
are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp
sword." Again, "Who whet their tongue like a sword
and shoot out their arrows, even bitter words." And
again in Proverbs (xii, 18), "There is that speaketh
like the piercing of a sword, but the tongue of the
wise is health." Again, "Death and life are in the
power of the tongue." Also at the Great Initiation
we hear Job aking, "Is there iniquity in my tongue ?"
Hence it is quite fitting that, as the manifestations of
the 1st septenary may be called the children of the 1st
mother, Aleph (air), they should be completed and the
Victory gained by a Mastery of the tongue.
As we have said elsewhere: "Speech is one of the
greatest powers, for it includes the powers of sound,
number, color and, when written, form. * * * To
bring to your minds some of the practical effects of
this power, we would ask you for one day to note
carefully the effect your words have on those about
you. Many pupils ask for something practical to do
to develop occult powers and manifest the higher life.
Noting the effect of your words is practical and most
important, and a practice which can be indulged in
without fear of dangerous consequences. And until
at least some conception of the power of speaking
kindly and lovingly but to some purpose and some
degree of mastery over it has been attained, the devel-
opment of other occult powers will be retarded if not
actually prevented."1
V. .1 I.. 174$.
The 7thLetter;ZoÍn 279
The relation of' Zain to the sign Gemini is in the
idea that Gemini rules the arms and represents also
the masculine and feminine qualities combined. Only
he who has raised his arms in blessing and has blended
the masculine and feminine qualities within himself
can be called the victor over the power of the tongue.
Another aspect of Gemini is the 2 opposing forces to
which man in his unregenerate state is bound, as St.
Paul said: "When I would do good, behold evil is
present with me." Hence the Victor must have found
the perfect blending of these pairs of opposites and
must know how to use them to help on his further
advance, the ability to accomplish which is symbolized
by the arms. "When thou hast passed into the Sev-
enth, 0 happy. one, thou shalt perceive no more the
sacred Three, for thou shalt have become that Three
thyself."'
Th. V..c. .1 sk Sil..cs. Bl*v.tzky 19.
THE 7TH TAROT CARD
TU CEAIOT
Smith
MODERN
1*
II4iJk
7 ILE CHAR1OT
Pa pus MEDIEVAL Pa pus
The 7th Tarot Card 281
THE 7TH TAROT CARD, The Chariot.
In the Tarot the 7th card is called The Chariot, and
is represented by a conqueror crowned with a coronet,
composed of 3 pentagrams of gold. He stands in a
chariot having the form of a cubic stone, having over
him an azure canopy supported by 4 columns, and
having 14 stars over his head. He has 3 right angles
upon his breast, and upon his shoulders the Urim and
Thummin, represented by 2 crescent moons, 1 on
either side. He carries m his right hand a scepter
surmounted by a globe, a square and a triangle. In
his left hand he has a fiery sword. Upon the square
front of his chariot is a lingain and the winged sphere
of the Egyptians, while 2 sphinxes, 1 black and 1
white, draw the chariot, each straining in an opposite
direction yet both looking toward the right and undei
the absolute control of the driver.
This card symbolizes the main characteristics of the
sacred septena.ry. It represents man who has become
the Conqueror, master both of himself and the de-
nients, making the cubenow become the Philoso.
pher's Stonehis chariot; the heavens his canopy;
the 2 sphinxesthe forces of the Great Agent, black
and white magichis servants to bear him onward.
His cuirass is the "breastplate of righteousness" or his
knowledge of the manifestations of the Divine which
makes him invulnerable to assaults from either the
human or elemental kingdoms. The Urim and Thum-
mini upon his shoulders indicate his priestly power to
answer all questions through direct inspiration from
the Divine. The globe on the scepter, surmounted
by the square and triangle, indicates the 7 fold powers
of man arising from the Q. The scepter corresponds
to the Magic Wand mentioned above, while the Fiery
Sword is the "Sword of the Spirit" with which be has
gained the Victory.
282 The Key to She Universe
THE 7TH COMMANDMENT.
7 shalt not commit adultery."
Exodus, xx, 14.
Since we know that number 7 is the Number of
Perfection, especially that perfection of humanity
which will prevail when, through the power of num-
ber 6 the 5 senses have evolved into the 7, we can
readily understand that to commit adultery has a far
greater significance than the 1 generally ascribed to
it. For to adulterate is to add some foreign and infe-
rior substance to the thing adulterated. Also a thing
is said to be adulterated when not absolutely pure and
exactly what it purports to be.
It has been the custom to confine this 7th Command-
ment exclusively to the creative functions; but, while
we concede the importance of obeying its literal mean-
ing, still we must not make the mistake of confining
it solely to that meaning.
The fact that 7 is the Number of Perfection and yet
deals with the creative powers of man is, to say the
least, significant. A perfect humanity is 1 in which
the creative powers have not been adulterated, but
while fully functioning and under the absolute con-
trol of the Will are used in love, purity and wisdom
to create that which is needful, unadulterated by lust or
any of the lower carnal desires, and with a full recogni-
tion that the Great Creative Force is creative on all
planes, and that it becomes sex-force only when it
functions through the sex centers. And as we are
responsible for The use of that great Force through
all the centers, it must be kept pure and unadulterated
if we would conquer death and the grave. In itself
it is the mightiest agent entrusted to humanity; in
fact, its use is the great test of the humanity of this
globe. In its true esoteric significance it is so far
The 7th Commandment 28.3
above man's present conception of it that only as he
evolves the 6th and 7th senses can he understand
and master all its possibilities. Mankind of today, in
dense ignorance of its divine origin and purpose, is
wallowing in the mire created by the perversion of its
lowest aspect. Only when we know, really know, its
true essence and functions, through our own divine
illumination, and have tested and proven them from
experience; in fact, only when we have been able to
look this mighty problem in the face with a pure heart
and an understanding mind and know it in its pure
and unadulterated state, can we take the 7th step. We
must create each step crc we can take it, and if we con-
fine the Great Creative Force to its functions in the
flesh, we livein the flesh. And so long as we presume
to judge the God who made us and gave us this force,
and say that all use of the creative force is evil and
belongs only to the unregenerate man, we must re-
main unregenerate; for we have turned our backs on
the very power given us to bring about our regenera-
tion and create our next step. Therefore, let us cease
to adulterate our conceptions of this Divine Power
with the misconceptions which have their origin in
ignorance, asceticism, fear, prudery and the self-
righteous thought that we are better able to judge of
what is pure than the God who made us, and use for
their highest ends all the powers given us. Nor must
we adulterate the Divine Wisdom handed down
throughout the ages. Only thus can we truly obey the
7th Commandment.
Since we never try to kill anything that we do not
consider harmful or vile, the very fact that the unen-
lightened place this mighty force at the head of all
evil things and give it over to what they are pleased to
term the Devil, helps to make the Devil an actual en-
tity, built up through the ages by man's perverted
284 The Key to the Universe
thought forces, and vivified and strengthened daily by
the votive offerings of those who create him out of the
very forces which should make man a god. Is it any
wonder, then, that the Devil lives and thrives and ex-
erts a vile, degenerating and disintegrating influence
upon mankind? For every outpouring of life-force
which the unenlightened mind of man. brands as vile,
goes to prolong the life and strengthen the powers of
"the devil and his angels." For the thought of evil
creates evil thought-forms, hence that power given to
man with which to reach divinity, which should bring
him to number 7 and make him perfect even as his
Father in heaven is perfect, has been adulterated and
used to bring about imperfection and death.
Therefore, until we learn the real essence of this
7th Commandment by heart, and exemplify it in
thought and life, the Angel with the Flaming Sword
will forever bar us from returning to our spiritual
home in the Garden of Eden.
CHAPTER 31
TUE NUMBER 8
"Where is thy individuality, Lanoo, where the
Lanoo himself? It is the spark lost in the
fire, the drop within the ocean, the ever present
ray become the All and the eternal Radiance."
The Voice of the Silence, Blavatsky, 20-1.
Number 8 is the Number of Evolution and is con-
nected with the spiral motion of cycles. It is the
Number of the inevitable and onward rush of Time.
Its symbol is the hour glass, also the balance. It is
also the Winged Globe of the Egyptians and the Bird
of Life of the Hindus which carries man from the
realm of earth (the lower o of the 8) to the higher
realms (the upper o of the 8).
According to Stinson Jarvis: "Our word E I G H-T
names the Horse-God (his Celtic name is E r G H)
and the eight hours. * * * These eight H 0 R-
Ses, or Hour-Signs, are still shown harnessed abreast,
in the carvings of Java which illustrate our D A Y-
god's car. * * * The Eigh-T chambers name the
eight Hours, eight H 0 R-Ses, eight notes, eight di-
visions of the compass, and every other eight or the
O C-T, or Oak-God, who is '0 CT,' or Eight. * * *
The same naming of the Eight-god, or 0 C-T, was
continued in the great tower and temple of B-E-Lus
in Babylon. * * * This was divided into Eight
separate towers. * * * The Greeks have two 0's,
naming the sun as the 'Great 0,' or 0-MEGA, and
the moon called 0-micron, or Circle Small. * * *
These two 0's name the Sun and Moon on which all
time calculations were made: and the Oak God. or
286 The Key to the Universe
OC-T, was supposed to be both of them in one. Con
sequently, he was fully named by the figure 8, and
OC-T, OCH-D and OCH-T name Eight in the Celtic,
Gaelic, Latin and Greek. * * * Therefore we see
that they were all the one deity under different names,
but fully represented by the figure 8, which shows the
small Moon above the large Sun, or the o-mi-cron
above the 0-mega, and thus names the deity who was
both Moon and Sun in one. Father Smiddy wonders
why the Druids seem to pay such deep respect to num-
ber Eight; but this proceeded from their science, be-
cause their service of praise was nearly all vibrational,
to produce unity of mind through song, and the 'Oc
God Song,' or OC-T-AVe, was composed of Eight
notes."'
Many writers give to number 8 a most sinister
interpretation. They attribute to it all that is
unfortunateimperfection, privation, loss, ruin, decay,
corruption and death. While it may present such as-
pects, they are fearsome only to those who do not
know the meaning and object of evolution, those who
refuse to face conditions which the Great Law brings
for their instruction and unfoldment. For evolution
means ever becoming. That which has fulfilled its
cycle of manifestation must give place to something
higher; that which is imperfection, because only "in
part," must be superseded by the more and more per-
fect. The less evolved forms of life suffer the lack of
only that which must be the ultimate result of the step,
as the child is deprived of the ripe wisdom of the man,
aitho it has all the faculties by which to acquire that
wisdom in the course of growth. That which is lost
is that out of which the law of evolution has absorbed
the life-force, as a rind of an orange is thrown away
when the substance of the orange is extracted. Ruin,
decay, corruption and death are all phases of life cx-
'The Jarvi., Litter,. x. v
The Númber 8 287
pression. The rind of an orange may decay, become
corrupt, and seemingly die, yet the life substance in it
is reabsorbed by the elements, from which there will
again be evolved a new form of life. "For we know
in part, and we prophesy in part, but when that which
is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be
done away." To those who bestride the Bird of Life
and boldly face each step in evolution, no matter what
it may hold for them, number 8 is the symbol of the
Good Law.
"The wheel of the Good Law moves swiftly
on. It grinds by night and day. The worthless
husks it drives from out the golden grain, the
refuse from the flour. The hand of Karma guides
the wheel; the revolutions mark the beatings of
the karmic heart."'
Since evolution can advance only by reaping that
which is sown, number 8 is a perfect symbol of Bal-
ance or cause and effect. It is the Number of the
ceaseless Breath of the Cosmos, the outbreathing and
inbreathing by which the equilibrium of the Soul is
attained. It breathes into man the ideals from the
higher spheres and draws up from the lower spheres
of personality his lower ideals. Man's ideals are
therefore but the divine ideals deformed and colored
by his limited conception and understanding of them,
just as man breathes in pure air, and breathes out the
same air tainted and more or less polluted by the vola-
tile waste products of his system. According .to the
health and purity of his body is man's outgoing breath
pure and sweet. And according to his oneness with
his Higher Self and the purity of his thoughts, can
man breathe out or manifest the ideals indrawn from
the higher realms.
The path of the psychic breath in thern body forms
a perfect.figure 8. This, however, must be understood
'I Cotu.tkia,u. zw. 9.10. I The Voice of She Sile,scs. 28.
288 The Key to the Univerie
from its esoteric aspect, for there are many mysteries
connected with the breath, all of which pertain to
man's evolution.
In number 4 we have squared and laid our corner-
stone, as far as our physical expression is concerned,
and in number 7 have erected our Temple of the Liv-
ing God, and are now ready to inaugurate the priestly
office in it, by means of which we are enabled to enter
into the higher circle of number 8 where, behold I all
things to us become new; in short, we are now ready
to die to the old, for which reason the Ancients called
number 8 death. But like so-called physical death,
this death is but an evolution into a higher state of
life. Another conception of number 8 is that of the
perpetual and regular flow of the life currents of the
universe, the evil being consumed to make way for the
good. If we find a bad crop this season, we plow it
under and sow a better crop next season, thus working
with the Law of Eternal Motion or Evolution, toward
ultimate completion.
The Gnostic teachings postulate 7 interpenetrating
spheres surrounded by an 8th, which is composed of
the left-overs or unredeemed forces left behind by the
7 fold chain of spheres in their onward rush of evolu-
tion. This 8th sphere is 1 of absolute darkness, hence
is often called the "dark star," and its motion is so
much slower than the earth-chain to which it belongs
that it greatly retards that chain's progress. It is out
of this 8th sphere that, at the dawn of the next great
world-period, the materials will be gathered to form
a new 7 fold earth-chain, just as the 8th note
in music, while a repetition of the 1st, is never-
theless the beginning of a newer and higher
octave. This process is alluded to in the teach-
ings of the Gnostic Marcus, as follows: "Now
the motion of these seven spheres is exceedingly rapid,
The Number 8 28
whereas the eighth sphere is much slower than the
motion of the seven mutually interpenetrating spheres,
and as it were balances [the Balance ofnumber 8] or
checks their otherwise too rapid motion by pressure on.
their periphery."4
Number 8 may be compared to a power belt which
transmits the power from the drive-wheel of the engine
to the power-wheel of a machine. And curiously
enough such belts are usually crossed in the exact
shape of a figure 8. Nearly all symbols or objects
having the shape of number 8 convey the fundamental
idea of evolution, e, thetran.smission of the force of
1 cycle or form into the next higher expression.
It is at the point of crossing over, therefore, that we
must expect to meet the dread Dweller on the Thres-
hold who will bar our way until our couragehas been
proved. Only fortitude and determination at this step
can prove that we have learned the lessons of the
lower: wheel and have demonstrated our fitness to pass
on and recæive the Initiation which must precede our
entrance into number 9. This is the crucifixion, or
the dying upon the cross of the personality, that
The Christ, the only begotten Son of God, may rise
and sit forever at the right hand of his Father. Only
by the way of this cross, Via Cn.ci; can man become
more than man.
The Dweller who awaits us at this threshold of our
New Life is the synthesis of all those mistakes and
unredeemed creations which we have pushed behind
us during our struggle to reach the Perfection of num-
ber 7. For in our lower evolution there are' many
things which we have not the strength completely to
conquer. Yet we progress in spite of them, for such
things are mercifully held back until we grow to spir-
itual manhood. But ere we can pass this crucial step
we must meet and redeem them in the person of our
Fraji.s.css, of Fo.si, ForgoSte. Mead. 379.
290 The Key to the Universe
"Dweller" on the threshold of the new life, just as they
await us in a lesser degree at every new step upon the
Path. But here they must be faced, recognized, con-
quered and transmuted crc we can enter the 0 of the
higher evolution.
By some writers this Dweller is described as a
frightful monster of so terrible a mein that at sight of
him the candidate is either paralyzed by fear or in rare
cases is driven mad from horror. This occurs, how-
ever, only in extreme cases where the pupil has failed
to conquer fear during the earlier steps or where he
has persistently denied all evil and refused to face and
recognize his faults and failings, hence has made no
effort to redeem them. But the student who has lived
close to Divine Love and who has recognized his power
to redeem his creations, will have little to fear at this
step; for by the recognition of the power of The
Christ within the student has learned how gradually
to redeem the Dweller in his daily steps along the
Path; in fact, has grown familiar with his face1 hence
is not appalled. He knows that he can conquer all
that his evolution brings to him.
Many students are puzzled to know how they will
meet the Dweller or know when they are upon the
Threshold of Initiation, but there are many experi-
ences which, to 1 who is truly watching, will indicate
it, and many ways to meet the Dweller will appear.
Some have a symbolic dream or vision, or an expe-
rience in life itself brings it to their recognition.
1 student relates that he had the following dream: He
dreamed he stood before a small entrance which
seemed to lead into a vast Hall. He was eager to
enter, but at the door stood a monstrous Giant with
drawn sword barring the entrance. Seated near the
doorway behind a small table was a huge Mongolian
noble. The student sought to enter, but the Door-
TheNs.mber8 291
keeper demanded a fee. On asking how much be was
to pay, the student was told 70 cents. He handed the
Doorkeeper 75 cents, but the Mongolian would not
let him in until he had paid the exact amount, telling
him it was impossible to pay more than was demanded.
Then the Giant lowered his sword and let the student
enter. The symbology here is very plain, for 70
cents symbolized 7 complete cycles of 10. And only
when the candidate for Initiation can give to the Door-
keeper-the value of 7 complete cycles can he enter the
Narrow Gate which is the crossing point of number 8.
1 fault which gives the Dweller great power, and
which is a great shock when 1st realized by the candi-
date, is self-righteousness and spiritual pride. The
person whose Dweller has been built up through the
grosser sins of selfishness, greed, drunkenness, lust,
etc., knows all along that he is violating the Law and
rather expects to pay the penalty some time; in fact,
has in all probability had many glimpses of his Dweller
and knows full well it is his own creation, hence is
not so appalled at his handiwork when seen in full. He
is therefore far more ready to recognize it as his own
creation than the self-righteous person who has lived
so long in his artificial sanctity that he cannot believe
the Dweller to be his.
Once having successfully faced the Dweller and
citered the higher circle of evolution in number 8,
we now meet Saturn, the great Tester and Initiator,
whose number is 9. "For Satan (Saturn) is the mag-
istrate of the Justice of God (Karma); he beareth
the balance and the sword. For to him are committed
Wdghs and Measure and Number?'5 The Initiator
should not be confused with the Dweller, for the
latter is an entity of our own creation, while the Initi-
ator is 1 of the Elohim or Sons of God spoken of by
Job. He 1st appears to us as grim Death, the Reaper,
Bo.h ./ Hevwes quot.4 by IMgiford. Appendix of The Per/ed
we,.
292 The Key to the Universe
but as such he comes 1st to teach us to conquer fear,
and 2nd that we may prove to ourselves the power
of man, uplifted and sustained by the Divine within,
to conquer even Death; to prove that there is no
death; for if we rest in the 1 Life, the Divine Breath
manifesting through number 8 will sweep us safely
past this point of crossing. "Perfect love casteth out
fear," hence long crc we reach this step we should have
learned "in whom we trust." Then is death swallowed
up in Victory. -
If we do find the spiral of evolution, like number 8,
manifesting to us decay and dissolution, this merely
proves that only as the old and useless husks decay
can the seed sprout and bring forth. It is ruin only
in the sense that the breaking of the shell by the evolv-
lug sprout means ruin. Only as the shell is broken
can the kernel of the nut be extracted. Number 8
should not be regarded as privation, imperfection,
corruption or loss, except as we gladly lose the lower
or lesser to obtain the higher and greater, or just as
a child breaks and ruins or is deprived of its old toys
when the time comes in its evolution to take up the
serious business of life. Here we gladly lay aside the
old thoughts, the old bonds of flesh, even our old ideas
and beliefs, especially the thought of our greatness
and power; the ability of the unaided personality to
meet and conquer all physical conditions. For only
as these old conceptions fall away from us 1 by 1,
decay and return to their original elements, are we
ready to pass through the Narrow Gate and be weighed
in the Balance of Perfect Justice.
CHAPTER 32
TflE NUMBER 8(Continued).
My heart, my mothermay there be no part-
ing of thee from me in the presence of him that
keepeth the Balance."Book of the Dead, Budge,
xciy-v.
The effect of number 8 may be compared to that of
a Balance in which the Soul must be weighed. This
balance was an important symbol among the Egypt-
ians. "The Vignette of Chapter xxx of the Book of
the Dead represents the. deceased sitting in one pan
of the scales and being weighed against his heart .which
is placed in the other." In another Vignette "we see
the heart of the deceased in one pan of the balance, and
a feather, emblematic of Right and Truth i. e., 'what
is straight,' in the other." In fact, in its ancient form
number 8 (co) resembles- a balance.
In number 7 man (5) attains his 2 higher faculties
and sees himself not as a 5 fold personality, but as a 7
fold Being made in the image of the 7 Elohim. But in
number 8 he must see himself not even as a perfected
personality, but one with the Universe of Being. Here
he must of his own free-will throw into the scales all
that he has attained and put -it to the test, just as the
alchemist who, after long and laborious efforts has
obtained his gold, will 1st put it to the acid test to see
if it is indeed gold, then cast it into the scales to be
weighed ere he can truly say, "I have attained." The
very personality we have so laboriously perfected in
number 7 must now be left behind. Our own power,
our judgment, our self-reliance, our own guidance,
all these are necessary that we may recognize and
understand the greatness of the self we have perfected1
'Book of Me Peod. Budge, zciv.v.
294 The Key to the Universe
yet having completed the cycle of limitation within that
lower self, we must now lay it aside as we would lay
the body aside in the grave, and face our Initiator
crc we can evolve into the upper o of the 8, the Higher
Self.
But number 8 is more than a Balance, it is the puri-
fying Flame of the Divine Breath which sweeps round
the Soul to consume its dross, and only that which is
pure gold can withstand it.
Pythagoras calls number 8 the 1st evenly even num-
ber, for both sides of the balance must be made equal
or there must be a cubic stone (4) on each side of the
scale; in other words, in number 8 we must find perfect
balance. St. Paul tells us to "Prove all things; hold
fast that which is good," which is but another way
of saying weigh, measure and test. But the student
does not have to create his own tests. All he has to
do is to strengthen his will, quicken his love and be
ready for all that comes; for life itself will bring the
tests. We therefore warn all students who are seeking
the balance which precedes Initiation, not to be over
enthusiastic or rash in asking for tests. Do not demand
that all your Karma descend upon you all at once,
even in 1 life. Just rest in the knowledge that the
Great Law is Divine Love, hence the fires of pun-
faction will be no hotter than you can bear, provided
you let the loving Christ walk with you in the fiery
furnace of purification and testing. Many prolong
this period of weighing and testing by the pride they
take in being able to pass through it so bravely. Since
pride and personality are the 2 things which most
require purging from the Soul, and since number 8
is Absolute Justice, of necessity the fires must be made
the hotter until these impurities are consumed.
The crossing point in number 8 is the valley between
2 attainments, the valley between the Mount of Crud-
Ths Number 8(Continued) 295
fixion and the Mount of Ascension, the Valley of the
Shadow of Death spoken of by the Psalmist: "Yea,
though I walk through the valley of the shadow of
death, I will fear no evil (the Dweller); for thou art
with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me." It
is only the Rod of Powerthe power of The Christ
and the Staff of the 1 Life that can carry the candi-
date safely through this deep experience. For those
who are filled with spiritual pride this is the Valley of
Humiliation, for ere they can make this great transi.
tion their pride in their spiritual superiority and
righteousness must be humbled until they become as
little children. This point of crossing is also the
straight and narrow gate referred to by Jesus, up to
which each Soul is brought by evolution. "Enter ye
in at the straight gate ;because straight is the gate
and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and
few there be that find it." It is also the gate referred
to as the needle's eye, through which it is so difficult
for the man attached to this world's goods to pass.
To enter this gate we must make straight our Path;
must straighten out all the devious and winding paths
of the old life so that as we enter the higher cycle of
evolution the lower o of the 8 will be straightened out
to form the upright stem of number 9. If we fail at
this point we enter the broad gate and go down and
round and round the circle of the old life. "Wide is
the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruc-
tion, and many there be which go in thereat."
If the circumscribing conditions of our old life are
straightened out and we pass onward and upward,
we can rest assured that we have passed the tests of
number 8. But if our life goes over and over the
same old conditions without advancing us; repeating
the same old mistakes, thinking the same old thoughts,
etc., we will know that we have been weighed and tern-
PsQÅ xxW. 4.
296 The Key to the Universe
porarily found wanting, hence have missed the narrow
gate and must go round the circle of the old conditions
until we again find ourselves facing the Dweller. Even
if our old problems do seem to fall from us, yet we
seem to have lost interest in spiritual things, are seem-
ingly switched off into worldly pleasures and excite-
ments, we may know we are upon the broad path, the
lower o of the &
'r 8rn -rz, .1-leth (Ii).
"He produced Cheth, predominant in Sight,
crowned it, combined and formed with it Cancer
in the Universe, Tamuz (Ju'y) in the Year, and
the right hand of Man."Spher Yetzirah, 24.
The 8th Hebrew letter is Heth or Cheth (ch). It
is 1 of the simple letters and is related to the zodiacal
sign Cancer. This letter should not be confused with
the letter He which is somewhat similar in name and
closely allied in occult significance. Its hieroglyphic
meaning is a cultivated "field" in which a crop is
brought forth. It thus suggests labor and effort, as
well as the idea of increase and wealth. The field of
endeavor may be 1 in which to cultivate and produce
the fruits of peace and plenty, or a field of strife and
battle. But in either case it is the field in which the
Conqueror of the previous (7th) letter must use his
Weapon, either as a sharp sword or arrow, to gain
the supremacy over the forces that would retard his
further evolution, or as an implement to cultivate the
field that it may bring forth abundant crops. Only
when through victory he has beaten his sword into a
plowshare and his spear into a pruninghook, can they
be used to make the field bring forth her increase to
bless both the Conqueror and all mankind.
The field is the field of his own nature and con-
sciousness. Hence the step indicated by the 8th letter
The 8th Letter, .HatIÍ 297
thould bring to him the increase of evolution. This can
be attained only through effort,battle, victoryand ha]-
ance, and by sedulously cultivating the soil of his
field. The Conqueror must prove his power to balance
the forces of good and evil which are contending in
his field and come forth the Victor., He must also
demonstrate his power as an husbandman to make his
field produce to its utmost. Guierally the Conqueror
has to fight with his sword until he has equilibrated the
positive and negative forces. Then will he find his
field enriched from the very struggle and bloodshed
which at 1st seemed only to devastate it. Thus Perfect
Justice is attained; for that from which we suffer most
and whose adjustment and fulfillment our rebellion
and struggles delay, when once we have truly learned
our lesson, the Law as Justice and Compensation yields
us a harvest, which is all the richer because of the
struggle that has drenched our field with the blood of
our heart.
As with the individual, so is it with the world. There
must come an era, even as prophesied by Isaiah,1 when
"He shall judge among the peopleand they shall
beat their swords into plowshares; and their spears
into pruninghooks; nation shall not lift sword against
nation, neither shall they learn war any more." This
is the inevitable result of evolution. 1st 1 here and
there- grasps the idea that war is unnecessary, then
gradually a mighty current of thought-force embodying
that idea sweeps around the world and, appealing to
and fostered - by woman, is impressed upon the con-
sciousness of the unborn children which will make up
the future humanity.
Again, since we find this letter in the Sepher Ye:-
zirah expressing the underlying force of the sign
CancerCancer being the great mother-sign and
governing the breasts from which all are nourished
'11.4.
298 The Key to the Universe
we must expect to find a similar meaning in Heth.
And this we do, for it is both the productive, nour-
ishing, mother-force, which is 1 of the main factors
in evolution, and also the masculine force which accom-
plishes by the use of the hand. Also July is the month
of increase, when the fruits are ripe and ready for
the harvest. "0 sing unto the Lord (Law) a new
song; for he bath done marvelous things; his right
hand, and his holy arm, hath gotten him the victory."
(Psalms, xcviii, 1).
This is the field in which humanity must bring forth
victory for the individual, the race and for the planet,
through perfecting the fruits of equilibration in Mother
Earth, upon whose ample bosom all her children shall
find enough, not only to sustain life, but to balance all
economic problems. And through the balancing of
supply and demand they shall take the next economic
step in the evolution of the Race. Just that which
is impressed upon the unborn children and what they
draw in from their mother's breast, will the Race
express. Just so must humanity imbibe from the
breasts of the Great Mother the forces of the sign
Cancer, which shall give them the power to bring forth
the higher ideals in the field of their evolution. Only
as we turn to the Great Mother, like tired children,
will we find sustenance and to spare.
It is therefore not at all remarkable that the 8th
letter should stand for a "field" and be connected with
the maternal sign Cancer. For we have seen that
number 8 is the step at which humanity must find its
Balance and where the Conqueror of number 7 must
turn his weapon into an instrument with which to
bring forth increase in the higher o of the 8. instead
of destruction in the lower circle.
St. Ge,moin
EGYPTIAN TYPE
THE 8Tn TAROT CARD
JUS?IC
LA JUSTICE
Smids
MODERN TYPE
i*t
8 I LA JUSTICE
Pa pus MEDIEVAL TYPES
CHAPTER 33
TUE 8rii TAROT CARD, Justice.
'!Thou canst create this 'day' thy chances for
thy 'morrow.' In the 'Great Journey' causes sown
each hour bear each its harvest of effects, for
ngid Justice rules the World."
The Voice of the Silense, Blavatslcy, 3S
The 8th card is called Justice, and is represented by
a woman seated upon a throne between the 2 columns
of the Temple, Jakin and Boas. This card symbolizes
the Great Mother through whose love, care and perfect
Justice alone can the children of men find equilibrium.
Here we see her seated and at rest between the positive
and negative, giving her fostering love to both alike;
she is "Wisdom who sitteth in the gates." (Pray., viii).
She wears an iron coronet. Iron being the metal of
the planet Mars1 this symbolizes that only through the
force of that planet, balanced and enthroned, can the
equilibration of the sexes take place. This is not the
force of Mars in its militant and destructive aspect,
but its energy, strength and push. The force of iron,
not fashioned into - swords and guns, but into a
coronet to crown the Great Mother, must be the Urge
back of evolution (co). But iron must undergo a
very drastic experience ere it can be put to its highest
uses.. It must be melted in the hot fires of the blast
furnace (the firesof Karma) and be chilled by being
plunged into earth conditions again and again, and
hammered by the Great Law, crc it can be welded,
transformed into steel and become fit to make the rails
and the bridges over which the trains of commerce
pnnihjlate distance and weld people together through
302 The Key to the Unvmse
association and common interest.1 Just so must the
force of Mars be transmuted and utilized to make
a line of communication from heart to heart and join
both man and woman in the oneness of common
interests.
In 1 aspect the force of Mars may be compared to
the circulation of the blood, governed by the breath. It
is also the life-force of the breath of evolution; for
as the Soul inbreathes it draws in its inspiration and
its ideals, while as it exhales it manifests the inspira-
tion and ideals as speech and works. Hence, the Great
Mother being crowned with the force of Mars shows
that she has gained the victory and is balanced and
poised, ready to lead her children into a new day of
manifestation.
She holds in her right hand a sword with its point
vpward, again a sign of victory. This is again the
Sword of the Spirit that ever cleaves asunder the
false from the true. In her left hand she holds a
Balance. This is again the Balance of number 8 in
which each Soul must be weighed crc it can receive
its Initiation.
THE 8TH coMMANDMENT.
8.
IVf
shalt not steaL"Exodur, xx, 15.
As 8 is the Number of Evolution, while allowing the
exoteric meaning to stand in its literal sense, to under-
stand the esoteric meaning of this Commandment we
must consider the relation which stealing bears to
evolution.
Esoterically this Commandment means that the per-
sonality shall not steal from the Higher Self; must
not be allowed to steal the scepter and usurp the place
of the Higher Self as the ruler of the life. It means
that physical conditions and circumstances must not be
allowed to steal from the personality its opportunities
'Sec Icuon The Iro,, di..
77s 8th Commandment 303
for meditation, realization, unfoldment; its opportuni-
ties for expression and manifestation of the Higher
Self in the life. For to do so is to sap and weaken the
very source of all evolution, i. e., the pressure of the
inner or ideal state for outward expression, modified
by the limitations imposed by the environment. Nor
must these same opportunities be stolen from others
who are seeking expression through personality. Evo-
lution is retarded until humanity as a whole awakens
to the importance of the fact that every Soul must
have freedom of opportunity to find its own place,
perfect itself in its work and follow out the inner guid-
ance of its Father-in-heaven.
The Great Law as Karma gives to every Soul the
portion of goods belonging to it and sends the Soul
forth into this far country of earth life to see what
use will be made of its inheritance. Each Soul is a
cell in the Grand Man, an atom in the Soul of the Uni-
verse, and has its own place in the Grand Plan. The
goods which are given to the Soul are all the facul-
ties, powers, knowledge and wisdom gained through
past experience, expressed in this life as inherent facul-
ties, powers and abilities, together with the as yet
undeveloped possibilities which the experiences of this
life are intended to unfold and perfect. Only by this
unfoldment and perfection through evolution can the
Soul be fitted to take its true place in the- Grand Plan;
a place which no other Soul can fill, and which must
remain empty or be imperfectly filled until that indi-
vidual Soul has consciously correlated with, and
become an unobstructed channel for, the manifestation
of the 1 Life.
When the human law puts a man in jail for stealing
money, or perhaps a loaf of bread, if it deprives him
of his freedom and his opportunities without due con-
sideration of the motives. circumstances and causes
304 The Key tp the UrÅverse
of his act, it is not administering or correlating with
the Law of Exact Justice; for it is stealing from him
far more than he stole from society, and is retarding
and often pushing back evolution. If we punishwith-
out justice and mercy; coerce, domineer or in any way
steal away the rights and freedom of others, we steal
from them their Soul opportunities. And the Great
Law will imprison us, individually and collectively, in
the prison of limited and unhappy conditions and at
hard labor, until we see our error and learn to help our
less fortunate brothers and sisters through the exercise
of tolerance, love and compassion, which are all a part
of real Justice. All these, together with such other
help as we can give toward its highest unfoldment, is
due every Soul from every other SouL If we withhold
these we are stealing from that other forces which are
rightfully his, and we must remain in bondage to
selfishness just that much longer.
To steal mere physical things is punishable by phys-
ical Karma. That is, we must suffer, either in this or
another life, from conditions that will ojen our eyes
and bring us to a realization that it is both inherently
wrong and causes suffering to take even the physical
things that belong to another. Karma does not mean
that if you steal a man's watch in this life, in the next
life he must steal a watch from you. If this were true
the Soul-quality whose lack prompted the stealing
would never be developed, the spirit of stealing would
be perpetuated, and there would be no end to the
vicious circle. In the above case Karma would mean
that you must pass through certain experiencessay
the loss of things your personality valued highly
which will develop in you a recognition of the rights
of others to the enjoyment of that which is rightly
theirs. The Great Law shuts up a Soul who steals
in the prison house of limited environment, to labor
The 8th Commandment 305
under the oppression of physical conditions until the
lacking Soul-quality is developed.
Since all evolution tends to develop.more and more
perfect organisms through which greater and greater
degrees of freedom from the bondage of external con.
ditions can manifest, we can be truly free from the
bonds of Karma only as we work with evolution,
through the seeking of those things which are our own
and following those things which will perfect and thus
basten our evolution. This is not attained by selfishly
trampling on the freedom or rights of others that we
may advancefor to do so is to develop selfishness
but through harmonious co-operation for the good
of all.
Therefore, we see that nothing will so retard our
own evolution as to steal from another that which
has been given to him and not to us, be it a thing, a
thought, an opportunity or a life. For the Great Law
of Exact Justice will keep us in bondage to physical
limitations, in the prison house of flesh, in the tread-
mill of Karma, incarnation after incarnation, until we
have fulfilled every jot and tittle of the Law we have
broken, and have repaid to humanity a 1000 fold that
wnich we have stolen.
CHAPTER 34
THE NUMBER 9.
"The Ninth Path is the Pure Intelligence, so
called because it purifies the Numerations, it
proves and corrects the designing of their repre-
sentation, and disposes their unity with which they
are combined without diminution or division."
Sepher Yetztrah, 29.
Number 9 is primarily the Number of Initiation.
As we have previously pointed out: "It is that most
mysterious number which never changes. No matter
how multiplied or added the sum of the resulting digits
will always equal 9, i. e., 9+9=18=9, or 9X9=81==9,
etc. In it all numbers are swallowed up to emerge
once more in a new cycle, 1O." In this sense it has
the same symbology as the serpent swallowing its own
tail, namely, the ending of a cycle. It is Cronus or
Saturn devouring his children. Thus it is truly the
Number of Initiation. For while there is a minor
initiation at each step in the Soul-life, "no matter how
you have multiplied sensation, experience, knowledge
or attainment, you cannot pass your Great Initiation
until you have returned to that from which you started,
just as all multiples of 9 return to 9."
As number 9 is the square of the 1st odd number
or trinity, 3, it represents Deity descending into human-
ity and evolving through man until squared, or until
through Initiation man has manifested the Divine in
each of the 3 worlds. Number 9 is also the Number
of Initiation because it is a trinity of trinitiesGod,
man and natureman, woman and the magnetic link
between themlove, truth and understandingeach
trinity of which, no matter how we deny or try to
V. of 1... 368.
The Numt)er 9 307
escape it, brings us face to face with Deity (3) in the
3 worlds and ultimately completes our Great Initiation.
The 9th Sephira completes the 3rd trinity, or the
trinity of trinities. It is called in The Kabbalah "El
Chai," the mighty Living 1, also Shaddai, the founda-
tion or basis, because only as this 3rd trinity is
unfolded and made the base for the other 2, is the
disciple ready to pass his great Initiation. It is here
that the Mystic Rose may be said to bloom in his heart.
This Rose is represented in a conventionalized form
with 9 petais on the outer edge, 6 on the next row
and 3 around the center. Its angelic name is "The
Flames."
Every step by which we evolve from 1 number to
the next is a minor initiation, but after each 3 such
minor steps there is a Major Initiation which when
passed admits us into a new cycle (10) and realm of
consciousness (See table 2, page 136). At each
minor initiation we must face our personality, but at
each Major Initiation we must face our own Soul or
Deity (3). These 3 Major Initiations, which complete
the Great Initiation of number 9, are represented math-
ematically thus:
0+1+2±3+4=10, the Cycle of Nature or
physical conditions, whose
symbol is the Staff.
(l0)-1-5+6+7=28=10, the Cycle of Man or The
Christ-force, whose sym-
bol is the Robe.
(28)+8+9±1O==55==10, the Cycle of Super-man or
the Higher Self, whose
symbol is a lighted Candle
or Lamp of Hermes.
The Staff is the Staff of the Patriarchs by the use
of which we tread the Narrow Way of Initiation lead-
ing to the heaven world. The Robe is the Robe of
308 The Key to the Universe
The Christ or the Mantle of Nature. When clothed in
it we are 1 with all manifested life. The Lamp of
Hermes is the Light of Wisdom which lights the way
of the Super-Man. "Number nine is that of divine
reflections; it expresses the divine idea in all its
abstract power, but it also signifies extravagance in
belief, and hence superstition and idolatry. For this
reason Hermes has made it the Number of Initiation,
because the Initiate reigns over superstition and by
superstition and alone can advance through the dark-
ness, leaning upon his staff, enveloped in his Mantle,
and lighted by his Lamp. * * * The Lamp of Trisme-
gistus enlightens past, present and future, lays bare the
conscience of men and manifests the inmost recesses of
the female heart. The Lamp burns with a triple flame,
the Mantle is thrice-folded, and the Staff is divided
into three parts."2 Again the 3x3=9.
As we have already said: "In 9 we find again the
cipher with which we started, but with a straight line
(the evolution of the lower o of the 8 completed and
straightened out) descending from it. Later when the
Initiation is completed this line will take its place to
the right of the cipher making 10, thus completing the
cycle and making man more than man." According
to Eliphas Levi: "Initiation is a preservative against
the false lights of mysticism; it equips human reason
with its relative value and proportional infallibility,
connecting it with supreme reason by a chain of analo-
gies. Hence the Initiate knows no doubtful hopes, no
absurd fears because he has no irrational beliefs; he
is acquainted with the extent of his power, and he can
dare without danger. For him, therefore, to dare is
to be able * * * He knows, he dares, and is silent" The
Initiates are the Sons (Suns) of God, and in the world
of men hold the same relation as the Stars (Suns) do
to the Cosmos.
'Tra,ssce,sdenaI Magic. L&vI, 8$-9
' V. .1 1.. 369.
TheNunvberp 309
While number 9 has always been conidered the
Number of Mystery, it is said to embody the power
of Silence or that sacred hush in which all activity
is swallowed up in the initiation of new life; the dark-
ness just before the dawn; the magnetic thrill as the
sun sinks below the horizon; the hush before a storm;
the pause at the turn of the tide.
Apollonius of Tyana, the Greek Neo.Platonic phil-
osopher, was an Initiate and hence fully understood
the significance and importance of this number. He
instructed his disciples specifically concerning it. He
required strict observance of the 9th hour as a time
for silence. He also forbade his followers to mention
number 9 aloud. "This number, says Apollonius, must
be passed over in silence, because it contains the great
secrets of the initiate, the power which fructi/les the
earth. * * * the mysteries of secret lire; * * * the
universal key of languages; * * * the second sight
from which evil-doers cannot remain concealed."4
When number 9 was met with in their calculations
it was therefore passed over in silence, and a deep
obeisance was made as a recognition of its sacred char-
acter. This, of course, was but a ceremony intended to
impress upon the minds of the Neophytes the great im-
portance of Initiation, its sacredness and the folly and
danger of evçn speaking lightly concerning its inys-
teries. We quite agree with this teaching, for the
mystic 9th hour, both as a period of the day and as a
period of the Soul's evolution, is a cycle of most sacred
and mysterious import. At high noon all the forces
of life are focused on the physical plane, hence great
activity is going on in the physical body. This is
therefore the best time to eat a hearty meal; for just
as the Sun has its greatest power in nature at high
noon, so is it in man's body. Noon is also the best
time to send out our spiritual blessing to the world,
' Tr.ce.sdasl MQgic IkvI. 407.
310 The Key to the Umverse
upon the physical plane, since it is the time of greatest
activity and impressionability. From noon until 3 P.
M., or during the 9th hour, should be a time of quiet
rest and digestion, both of the physical food taken at
noon and also of the spiritual forces impressed on the
physical body in the noon meditation and prayer
service.
In response to this need the Order of Christian
Mystics has established a noon-day silence and healing
service which is open to all, and with which all are
urged to unite. In this service, just as the clock strikes
12, strive to enter the great Temple of Silence, don the
Seamless Robe of The Christ and become 1 with your
brothers and sisters throughout the world.
As it is noon in some part of the world all the time,
and as our pupils in all parts of the world are sending
their love and force to the Center of the Order as the
clock strikes 12, it makes a continual stream of force
sweeping around the globe every moment of the day
and night Their love adds a touch of human sym-
pathy and comfort to the great currents of spiritual
force which are poured into humanity from the higher
realms through this Order and which sweep Westward
around the globe from this Center, carrying Light and
Love, health and prosperity to all who are in need;
burning up the chaff and unfolding the blossoms of
love and unselfishness in the hearts and lives of each
1 who correlates with them. All that is necessary to
partake of this stream of spiritual force and love is
mentally to unite yourself with the band of devoted
brothers and sisters who are joined hand in hand and
heart to heart in an endless chain which reaches around
the globe, for the purpose of rendering unselfish serv-
ice for The Christ to humanity. And as you give of
your force for the good of all, to that extent do you
partake of the power and force of all.
Sc. V. of L. 4O.3 1.
The Nunvber-9 31L
Each student should set aside at least 10 minutes
during the day for silent meditation upon the Divine,
and should faithfully keep this tryst with his or her
Higher Self. If possible make this time at noon. If
this is-not possible at least send your thoughts of love
and helpfulness to this Center at that time and con-
tribute the force of your love and devotion to the
upliftment of all. This is an exercise in practical
occulthm which has far-reaching effects.
At the conclusion of the silence period we mention
the names of all who have sought the help of the
Order, and mentally lay them in the radiant Light of
The Christ-force in the mystic Temple of Silence' that
they may receive a spiritual blessing. We will repeat
each day for 1 week, all names sent us, at the end of
which time they will no longer be mentioned unless by
special request. All who ask this special help should
make a determined effort to correlate with us at this
hour and should report the experiences or results
which follow.
Long crc man passes his Great Initiation he must
consciously correlate his consciousness with those intel-
ligent forces of nature brought to the earth at noon
by the Sun's direct rays, which Apollonius called genii,
but which are known to the Hindus as the Deva.r, and
to the Christians as "the principalities and powers in
heavenly places" (Eph.., iii, 10), whose function it is
to guide the forces of the 1 Life into expression
through the variou planes of evolution, both in nature
and in man. Each hour has its presiding Genius or
"power," the Genius of the 9th hour being concerned
with gathering out of the 3 realmsnature, man and
Godall the forces which the 1 Life has perfected
(initiated), and with them laying a square foundation
upon which a new and more perfect cycle (10) can be
erected. Hence crc man can pass number 9 he must
'See 1euo Ths T.m#J. of Seec.
312 The Key to the Universe
understand how, not only to harmonize with the forces
of nature, but also how consciously to direct them.
Thus will he work with the Genius of the 9th hour.
"God works in a mysterious way His wonders to per-
form." It is a step towards this great achievement
when we set aside a few moments each day at noon
and try to gather The Christ-force, which in Nature
is Sun-force, and to send it forth in blessing and heal-
ing to the world.
If something of the reverence for Initiation taught
by Apollonius were inculcated in modern students
their spiritual unfoldment would be markedly quick-
ened. So many today with irreverent tongues talk
glibly of the many so-called "initiations" through
which they have passed, while all the time their very
garrulity and their lack of real understanding, power
and helpfulness, proves to those who know the Law,
that such boasters have never passed a Major Initia-
tion. For since number 9 is the Number of Silence
and creativeness, of working with nature-forces, the
Initiate can always be recognized by his silent power.
He never babbles, for he knows that in nature the
babbling brook has no still depths in which the mystery
of a new life can be brought forth. It also shows that
such boasters have little understanding of what even
a minor initiation signifies. Such claims lay their
authors open to the suspicion that they have been
deluded either by their own ambitions or have been
deceived by astral impostors or both, or that at best
their experience was but the astral ceremony of a
minor initiation which was to work out later on in
the physical life. This illustrates the folly of such
claimants trying to make a great impression on their
hearers.
The danger of boasting concerning such mighty
experiences of Divine Realization is that the Great
The Number 9 313
Law, under the guidance of the Lords of Karma, must
make the claimant prove every assertion. The law as
stated in the Bible is, "For by thy words thou shalt
be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be con-
demned" (St. Matthew, xii, 37). Hence a babbler will
soon find himself plunged into troubles and tests for
which he is unprepared, and will perhaps wonder at
his uncommon run of ill luck, as he may call it, com
ing at a time when, according to his flattering astral
guides and the assurance of his ambition, he should be
enjoying the fruits of his exceptional worthiness. "Be
humble, if thou wouldst attain to Wisdom. Be humbler
still, when Wisdom thou hast mastered?'1
It should be clearly understood that Initiation occurs
1st in the higher realms and then gradually descends
to manifest in the physical world, thus followingthe
law of all manifestation.
"Having taken this step alone, apparently in the
darkness, the pupil will be brought to the Initiation
which his demand will surely bring about He will
meet this Initiation either unconsciously through natu-
ral worldly events (events, however, which he will
have no difficulty in connecting with this great step),
or consciously in the higher astral. The experiences
met with at this period will not consist of a few great
Soul-stirring events, which when once passed entitle
him to admission, but will consist of events which will
bring to him a repetition of experiences which will
force him to face himself and bring to his consciousness
every secret and open fault; events which will force
him to gaze into the eyes of the self that he has created
out of the personality which his Real Self (or Ego)
has created to train and function through; the self
built up out of the thought-forms he has created. * * *
There can be no dodging the issue or turning back
from these events, for it is a mathematical law that he
'The Few. of She Silew.. 39.
314 The Key to the Universe
cannot pass on until he has acquired strength to con-
quer these faults, one by one, as they are presented to
him. If he refuses, or is unable to conquer, his Soul
must wait and work in the lower Orders until it grows
stronger, and another cyclic opportunity for advance
is afforded."
The Soul may experience and pass an Initiation in
the higher realms (5th and 6th) of the astral world,'
and some realization of the event may be brought down
into the waking consciousness in the form of a well
remembered dream or psychic experience, but it may
be many years crc the Initiation descends into mani-
festation and is worked out on the physical plane; for
the same tests which the Soul successfully passed in
the higher realms are presented to the unsuspecting
personality by life itself. Generally the dream ends
crc the final step is taken, leaving the dreamer uncer-
tain of the end, because the end is not decided until
by his own free-will he has chosen to manifest it in his
daily life. The consummation of the Initiation on the
physical plane is often pushed back and delayed, some-
times for a whole incarnation, by the refusal of the
personality to follow the guidance of the Higher Self
or by its refusal to face, recognize and strive to con-
quer the events in life as they are presented to him
day by day by the Great Initiator. All depends upon
how the personality meets these tests. Life brings
these tests upon the aspirant at his weakest points,
but since he has already passed them in the higher
realms, he has the strength and Soul-power to conquer
them if he will allow that Soul-power to manifest
through him. "Let not him that girdeth on his harness
boast himself as he that putteth it off." (I Kings, xx,
11). As illustrated in the case of Benhadad, King of
Syria, in the story referred to above, the very boasting
brings the battle upon the aspirant long before it would
'V.oJI.,634.
See R,aliuuj .1 th Lhi.g Dedd Curtlee. zix. xx.
The Number 9 315
have otherwise descended and before the intermediate
steps have prepared him to meet it. But until the inner
experience has really descended into the physical world
and conditions analogous to those which the dream or
vision symbolically outpictured have actualized into life
problems, can he be said to have passed his tests. Such
occurrences are not fables nor mere imagination, but
actual life experiences. The candidate must meet them
without being told that they pertain to his Initiation,
except as his own Higher Self endeavors to prepare
his waking consciousness for the experiences which
are to follow. In reality all are warned and prepared
interiorly, but alas all do not remember or heed or
attach due importance to such warnings. After the
Great Initiation has been exemplified in the life, the
victorious candidate will consciously meet his Initiator
face to face and receive the assurance that he has
indeed been admitted into the Brotherhood.
In occult stories pertaining to Initiation, that mys-
tical experience is usually treated in an allegorical or
symbolic manner. The candidate is made to pass
through the most phantastic experiences and the most
harrowing and grewsome trials of his courage, faith,
and obedience. Such stories are purposely intended
to stimulate the desire for Initiation, yet are blinds
which do not reveal to the profane any of its secrets.
The candidate may pass such fantastic experiences in
the astral world, but crc he is truly an Initiate he must
meet in real life that which they symbolize. Remem-
ber that true Initiation gives real balance, real power
and real spiritual growth, which will manifest in the
daily life.
CHAPTER 35
TilE NUMBER 9(Continwed).
"It is on this 'knowledge' that the programme
of the Mysteries and of Initiations was based:
hence the construction of the Pyramid, the ever-
lasting record and indestructible symbol of these
Mysteries and Initiations on Earth, as the course
of the stars in Heaven."
The S,cret Doctrine, Blavatsky, VoL I, 333
Among the disciples of Apollonius and other ancient
philosophers many mystic potencies were ascribed to
number 9. It was frequently worn as an amulet, 1
method being that of having it engraved upon a sar-
donyx stone set in a silver ring. Such a ring was
worn upon the 2nd finger of the left hand (the Saturn
finger) as a sign of having passed a certain Initiation.
In such a case it was said to possess the power of
making the wearer invisible at will. The ring, how-
ever, had to be presented to the successful candidate at
the time of the Initiation, after having been made
under the special conditions necessary. Many curious
and authentic tales are told, even today, of the mys-
terious power of invisibility possessed by certain highly
advanced individuals.
The power of number 9 was also said to prevail
against plagues and fevers. But since all amulets,
talismans, etc., derive their powers largely from the
currents of force focused in them by the will of the
maker and the thought-power of those who believe in
them, it is quite understandable that those Great Souls
who were working among the densely ignorant and
superstitious masses during the Middle Ages, found it
helpful and admissible to have some object upon
The NÌimber 9(Contifwed) 317
which to focus the attention, belief and thought-
power of their followers. Nevertheless, each number
has a potency of its own which is inherent in that
which it represents. A sardonyx stone also has its
own magnetic and other mystic potencies, as do all
jewels, minerals, etc. The oriental sardonyx consists
of 3 distinct layers, a black base, a white intermediate
zone and a .deeper superficial layer of reddish brown.
Thus it is said to typify the 3 cardinal virtues neces-
sary for a true Initiate, the black of his unmanifested
possibilities which he is to unfold and express, the
white of chastity and purity of body, mind and heart,
and the brown of that humility which puts aside all
personality, mixed with the red of Mars which gives
the courage to face martyrdom if necessary rather
than to reveal the sacred Mysteries of Initiation to
the profane. Also the setting of this talisman in silver
(the metal of the moon), gives to it the power of
intuition and psychic unfoldment. Number 9 was
also said to bring health and long life if carved upon
any kind of amulet and worn upon the bosom. But
wisdom and an understanding of the laws of health
and the power of will and thought, will prove the
best amulet for this purpose in the present day.
Plato, the greatest pupil of Pythagoras, lays great
stress upon the importance of number 9. By the power
of his will heis said to have so ordered his life that
be passed away at the square of 9 or 9X9=81 years
of age, in full vigor of intellect and power. It was his
death occurring at that particular age which was
largely responsible for bringing 81 into disrepute and
causing it to be dreaded by his later and uninitiated
followers.
Being the last of the digits, number 9 is the symbol
of that which brings things to an end and prepares for
a new manifestation. Just as the intra-uterine life of
318 The Key to the Umverse
the child is brought to a close at the 9th month and the
new cyde of life begins with the breath of number 8
entering the lungs at birth, so does Initiation sum
up all the lessons learned through past experiences and
initiates the consciousness of the candidate into a new
life. It was at the 9th hour that Jesus is represented
as breathing his last upon the cross, and we are told
that "from the 6th hour (from 9 A. M. until noon),
there was darkness over all the land until the 9th
hour," or from noon until 3 P. M. This. allegorically
represents the Initiation of every true disciple of The
Christ; for as long as the personality hangs on the
crossfrom the time The Christ (No. 6) is conceived
in the heart (the 6th hour) until the Initiation is
completed (9th hour)there is darkness over the
earth or the human understanding. And only at the
9th hour, when the personality gives up the ghost
or resigns its life to the Father-in-heaven and cries
with a loud voice: "Father, into thy hands I com-
mend my spirit," is the veil between the 2 worlds rent
and the real birth into the higher Divine Conscious-
ness accomplished.
The 6th hour is The Christ hour, the period during
which the rays of the sun are struggling toward com-
plete expression at the zenith. And just as in nature,
from 9 A. M. until noon, so in the disciple during the
6th hour, he is striving to let the Spiritual Sun dom-
inate and reach the zenith of his life. From noon
until number 3, while the light seems to be waning, in
reality it is passing into the mysterious depths of
nature and being aichemically transmuted into new
growth, and at number 3, the divine number, the
indrawing is complete. During the 11th hour, or from
3 to 6 P. M., nature is resting, and during the 4 watches
of the night a new day is taking form in the womb of
nature. As the 4 divisions of the day lay the found-
The Number p(Co,itiniied) 319
ation of Initiation, so the 4 watches of the night lay
the foundation of a new day, number 10.
In Grecian mythology number 9 was consecrated to
the "nmsic of the spheres" and to the Muses. There
were 9 Muses, daughters of Jupiter and Mnemosyne
(memory). Each was assigned to preside over 1
particular department of literature, art or science.
Calliope presided over epic poetry, Clio over history,
Euterpe over lyric poetry, Melpomene over tragedy,
Terpsichore over choral dance, Polymnia over sacred
song, Ero.to over love poetry, Ura'nia over astronomy
and Thalia over comedy. Again, 9 combines the 3
Graces (Euphrosyne, Aglaeca and Thaiia), who preside
over the joys of life, the banquet and the dance; the 3
Fates (Clotho, Lachesis and Afro pos), who spun the
Thread of Destiny, and the 3 Furies (Alecto, Tzsiphone
and Megaera), who punished by their secret stings the
crimes of those who escaped or defied public justice,
into a trinity of trinities, which illustrates the tests and
trials of Initiation. For the candidate must prove his
mastery over the social pleasures of the Graces, must
courageously take from the Fates his 3 fold Thread of
Destiny and meet with unruffled equanimity the 3 Furies
and accomplish the Karmic adjustment of his secret sins.
The great Eleusinian Mysteries began on the 6th
day of the month and continued for a period of 9
days, during which time the Initiation of the candidates
took place. Number 9 played an important part in
the life of the Romans. They celebrated a Feast of
Purification for all male infants on the 9th day after
birth. This rite was called "mudina." They buried
their dead on the 9th day, and also held a feast called
"Novennalia" every 9th year in memory of the dead.
The Roman Catholic Church still holds the Feast of
Neuvaiñes, a service of prayer and devotion celebrated
on 9 successive days, during which the worshippers
33) TI.. K to the Un.ver.re
pray for such special blessing as may be indicated by
the condition of the church or the needs of the times,
but always the idea is to pray the Soul out of Purga-
tory. There can be little doubt as to the eThcacy of
such a ceremony; for if a number of persons pray
earnestly for 9 consecutive days for anything upon
which they all agree and concentrate, they will surely
bring it into manifestation, be it a blessing or a curse.
The Jews were forbidden to wear either the Talleth
or the Phylacteries on the 9th of the month Ab until
the close of the day, and were strictly enjoined to
spend the entire day in fasting and repentance; for
they believed that no good thing could come of any
work done on the 9th day.
It is claimed by certain authors that number 9 per-
tains to Black Magic and sorcery, as well it may, for
when the Candidate fails to pass his Initiation there
is a temptation to use such powers as he has already
won for selfish purposes. We find number 9 alluded to
in this connection by Shakespeare in Macbeth (Act 1,
scene 3), where we find it conspicuous in the spells
of "the sisters three."
"Weary, sev'n-nights, nine times nine,
Shall he dwindle, peak and pine * *
The weird sisters, hand in hand,
Posters of the sea and land,
Thus to go about, about;
Thrice to thine, and thrice to mine,
And thrice again, to make up nine.
Peace! * * * the charm's wound up."
Number 9 was dreaded by the candidate who had
not mastered fear, for at Initiation all the evil influ-
ences of man's lower nature come up before him to
tempt or appall him. But number 9 is also the nuin-
ber which gives to the brave and true Knight the
The Number 9(Co,itimed) 321
courage to dare all such conditions,' as wel1'asthe
wisdom to transmute them into good.
We often meet with number 9 in old myth and
fairy tales where, if not connected with black magic,
it is looked upon as the enchanter's number. In the
story of KilhweI& and Alwen the castle was constructed
with 9 gates and 9 portals, beside which sat 9 dogs.
There was also an inexhaustible basket from which it
is said that thrice 9 xnen at a time could each find the
meat that he most desired; 'King Arthur is said to
have fought with an 'enchanted pig for 9 days and
9'nights. These are but 2 more references to Initla.
tion, as 'are many other seemingly meaningless fairý
tales; for the pig represents'nian's lower animal nature
and its appetites, which the candidate for KnighthÕod
or Initiation must conquer.
The Tartars hold number 9 in great reverence. It
is said that the Great Khan was told in a 'vision to
g to a certain mountain overlooking the sea and there
kneel 9times toward the East. He did so and the sea
separated and exposed a pathway 9 feet broad, over
which all the Tartar hosts passed dry shod. This is
but another version of the myth of the passage of the
Israelites through the Red Sea in a similar fashion.
Both these myths symbolize the desire of the Soul,
after harkening to the voice of the Law Giver, to
come out of and away from the land of spiritual
darkness (Egypt), where it 'and all its faculties (the
Children of Israel) have been in bondage to King
Desire (Pharaoh) and the sensations of the lower
self. They both refer to the 1st conscious steps that
lead toward Initiation. '-
The Masons have an Order called 'Thè 'Elect of
the Nine," in which 9 roses, 9 lights and 9 knock
enter into the ceremonies. Thi degree is consecrated
to '4bravery, devotedness and patriòtism." All òf
322 The Key to the Universe
these are summed up in the simple mandate, "Protect
the oppressed against oppression; and devote yourself
to the honor and interests of your country." This
degree also inculcates self-renunciation and self-con-
trol, both necessary qualities for Initiation. While the
Masons in general may not place as great a spiritual
significance upon Initiation as does the mystic, never-
theless the very term "The Elect of the 9" refers to
those who have passed a certain Initiation.
"The nine regular pictures of the universal Druid
Church * * * are as follows: (1) The naming of
the Time-keeping priest by the TEMp1 and the Rope;
(2) his ears being shown in the form of their Celtic
name '0'; (3) the picture of the Ape, pointed out as
his name; (4) the blazing Sun on his breast, contain-
ing the face of the human deity; (5) the Serpent,
which was also worn on the robes of the Celtic Druids;
(6) the two Doves used in biblical sacrifice; (7) the
Belt which named all the Druid Belt priests; (8) the
Feathered head of the Chief to name the rank of this
High Priest; (9) the Two Eight spoked Wheels of
universal use in naming the Solar God and his Car."1
Milton represents Satan and his rebellious angels
as requiring 9 days to fall from heaven. Milton, like
all inspired poets, is mystical in spite of the orthodox
twist he gives to his great conceptions. Lucifer, instead
of being a "fallen" angel, was 1 of the Elohim who
consciously descended into the realms of human con-
sciousness to bring to mankind the Divine Light and, in
his aspect of Satan or Saturn, to become the great
Initiator.'
Number 9 is the greatest single number or the Mas-
ter Digit, because it manifests the ultimate power of 1
place. 2 nines (99) express the ultimate power of
2 places, 3 nines the ultimate power of 3 places, etc.
The Number of the Manifested Cosmos is therefore
$ TA. J.i4. L.fS.rj, xl.
'On this point ass Y. .1 1.. 343.7 aid 3334.
The Number. p--(CoÌIinued) 323
áieriës of nines extending tò infinity, thus: 999
999oo. In other words only by passing the Initiation
of number 9 can the cycle of any manifestation or dis-
pensation or circle of 360.which adds up to 9be
completed.
The mystical number of the 144,0(X) Saints gath-
ered from the 12 tribes of Israelwhich doses ;thc
cycle of that dispensationalso adds up to 9. This is
but another expression of the unity of all mankind in
Adam whose number is 1449.
"The cycle of Initiation was a reproduction in
miniature of that great series of cosmic changes
to which astronomers have given the name of the
Tropical or Sidereal Year. Just as, at the close of
the cycle of the Sidereal Year. (2S868 years),
the heavenly bodies return to the same relative
positions as they occupied at its outset, so at the
dose of the cycle of Initiation the Inner Man
has regained the pristine state of divine purity
and knowledge from which he set out on his cycle
of terrestrial incarnation.'4
The digits 1+2+3_I 4 1.5+6+7+8+9 =45 =9.
Therefore 9 is called the basis of the unit value of all
numbers and the key to the mensuration of all chances.
Divide any number by 9 and if there isnorernainder
the digits of the number so divided will add up to 9.
In other words, the sum of the digits exactly divisible
by 9 equals 9; for instance, 7641 is exactly divisible
by 9 and 7641=1&=9. When dividing a number by
9, if there is a remainder the number will add up
the same digit as the remainder, for example: 921
divided by 9 leaves a remainder of 3 and 921=12=3.
Number 9 also reproduces itself in all multiples, thus:
7X93=9; 4X9=36=9, etc. Added to itself or
its multiples, 9 always remains, thus: 9+9=18=9;
27+9=36=9. But added to any other number it is
lost, thus: 9+8=17=8; 28-4-9=37=10. An àarn-
S. V.. 1. 334.
324 The ICey to She U.iwerse
pie of the persistence of number 9 is seen in the fol-
lowing table:
1dIIt9bt 9X 19X1 =9
sdiVt. 9 99X U9X1IXI =99X 1X99 =11=9
1 9 999X 121=9X11X11 =99X 11)0019 =11=9
4 - 9 « 9999X 12219X11X111 =99X 111X10989 279
$ « 9 99999X 12221=9X11XI1II =99X 1111X109989 =36=9
4 1
9 M 999999X122221=9X11X111119X11111X1099989=4S=9
The sum of the Seal of Solomon is also 9, thus:
The sum of any 2 points joined by a line through
the center equals 9, and added to the central point
equals 18=9.
In the philosophy of Henry Cornelius Agrippa, who
wrote extensively concerning numbers and magic early
in the sixteenth century, some extremely interesting
mathematical relations involving number 9 are given.
"Take any number, reverse it to obtain a second num-
ber, subtract one number from the other, and the digits
of the remainder will always by addition reduce into
9 and the remainder itself will always be 9 or a mul-
tiple of 9. This operation is a spiral movement of the
numbcrs employed, and the 9, therefore, represents
The Number (Continùd) 325
a éircle. An' eternal spiral motion' maybe 'properly
represented by an endless row of nines, each 9 syin.
bolizing one complete revolution of the spiral move
ment. * * * By reason of these properties of 7 and 9 to
numerically interpret Infinite Nature (99,999,999)
is to divide it by number 7 (the Interpreter of Nature).
This gives us, again, the Number of Infinite Evolu-
tion-142857,142857,142857oo. * * * There are 9 points
to a cubeits 8 corners and its center, the only point
where its 7 dimensions intersect each other. The cube
itself is an Ego or One. This One, plus its 9 points,
shows the cube to be a Raised One or 10. By dividing
this Raised One by its 7 dimensions we obtain 1.42857-
142857,142857."4 This number 142857 also equals
27-9.
"Multiplying 142857 by 7 gives, of course, 999,999,
the original nines returning. Multiplying the first 6
digits gives a 'magic square,' every line and column
of which contains all the original digits of the num-
ber. The sum of each line and column is 27, or 3 times
9; also 4 times 7, menus 1, here a diameter correction.
"The Magic Square of 142857 is as follows:
142857X1=1587'3 nines or 142857=27=9
"The Unes of the square show external rotation only.
The columns show internal transposition only, and the
digits are so transposed that each one always adds into
9 with its co-ordinately placed digit.
"The whole number of nines in the square is 333,333.
The total of the square is 2,999,997, in which 7 goes
exactly 428571 times, and 9, of course, 333,333 times."
The M,stk flmvr,s, Wbltehud, 454.
The Mjac Thiusrss, Wbitehud, 4940.
142857X2=31746 " or 285714=27=9
142857X3=47619 " or 428571=27=9
142857X4=63492 " or 571428=27=9
142857X5=79365 " or 714285=27=9
142857X&=95238 " or 857142=27=9
326 The Key to the Universe
A surprising series of rotations which result when
the figures 12,345,679 are multiplied by 9 and by mul-
tiples of 9 is given by the German mathematician, Al-
bert Neuberger, as follows:
12345679X 9=111111111
12345679x 18=222222222
12345679X27=333333333
12345679X36=414111111
12345679x45=555555555
12345679 X 54=666666666
12345679 X63=777777777
12345679x72=888888888
12345679x81==999999999
CHAF1'ER 36
THE 9m irrE, Tetls ()
NHe produced Teth, predominant in Heuin&
crowned it,, combined and formed with it Leo
in the Universe, Ab (Auust) in the Year, and
the left Kidney in Man.' Sepher Yet,irah, 24.
The 9th Hebrew letter, Teth (T), is 1 of the simple
letters and is connected with the zodiacal sign Leo, the
heart of.the Grand Man. The actual meaning of Teth
is a serpent, and as 9 is the Number of Initiation an
Initiate is called a Naga or Serpent of Wisdom. An-
other reason for the application of this term is that
just as the serpent changes and renews his outer skin,
so the Initiate changes and renews his personality;
that is, he shakes off and emerges from the limitations
of the old personality as he becomes an Initiate. Num-
ber 9 also completes and shakes off the old digits.
which might be compared to the personalityand
emerges in the new number, 10. As with the
serpent, however, the new skin or personality is
built up by the digestion and assimilation of all
that was contained or experienced in the former,
so that the 2nd cycles, of digits (10, 20, 30,
etc.) are the same as the 1st, but with the power
of 10 added to each. And just as the newly emerged
serpent is the old serpent grown longer and more per-
fect, so does the Initiate retain the old but perfected
personality, with all the unfolded powers added. For
in his long pilgrimage toward the 9th Gate he has lit-
tle by little transmuted the old body, and atom by atom
has cast off the seeds of decay and death, until now it
is a glorious body of immortal life, for he has over-
come death.
328 The Key to the U,siverse
The hieroglyphic meaning of Teth is a "roof," the
idea being that of a covering or protection. Another
meaning of the letter is "El Chai," the Mighty Living
1, for it is the force of the 1 Life manifesting in man
as an electro-dynamic force, the Kundalini or serpent
power, which when lifted up and dominated by the
spiritualized Will makes of man an Initiate. In this
sense Teth indicates that only as we have passed the
Great Initiation of number 9 and have become "wise
as serpents and harmless as doves," can we consciously
express the power of the Mighty Living 1. The sen-
tence quoted above is another allusion to the mystic
Initiation, for the candidate has 2 great tasks to per-
form in his physical body crc he can gain perfect con-
trol over it, and without which the Great Initiation
cannot be passed, namely, the control of the serpent
power and the attainment of the wisdom it brings.
For only as this powerunder control of the spirit-
ualized Willis lifted up and guided until it reaches
the sacred center between the eyes, can Realization be
attained and the candidate become as wise as a serpent.
Another task is to find that center within the body
where the Bird of Life has its nesting placethe Heav-
enly Dove whose head is Wisdom, whose body is Hu-
mility, whose right wing is Life Immortal, and whose
left wing is Divine Loveand having found this nest
attain sweet rest "between the wings of that which is
not born, nor dies." Among the precepts found in
The Voice of the Silence,1 written for the guidance of
those who are nearing the 9th Gate and not applicable
to nor intended for the guidance of those not definitely
seeking Initiation, we find the following: "Bestrida
the B1r4 of Life, If thou would'st know * * * let
not thy 'Heaven-Born' a * * break from the Uni-
versal Parent (Soul), but let the fiery power retire
into the inmost chamber, a a a then from the
$ Fuel 5.940.
The p1k Letter, Teth ' 329
heart that Power shall rise into the sixth, the inddle
egion, the place between thine eyes.".
This Universal Parent Soul is the same- as the
Mighty Living 1, or the "fiery power," in its universal
aspect, or as we would say, the Great Creative Christ.
force. hence the main point in occult development is
not to break away from this Christ-power which is the
mediator between man's personality and. his Divine
Self and the Redeemer of the lower nature. As we
develop this power we blend with and come under the
conscious protection, of the Mighty Living 1 of the
Cosmos, who now lives in and acts through us as our
protector 'and sustainer, instead of merely overshadow
ing and influencing us as in the earlier steps.
The lesson to be learned from the Bird of Life is
that of poise. Just as in Initiation there must; be an
absence of all fear and a quiet resting between the
equilibrated forces of love and life, so must the Soul
rest between the 2 wings of the Bird of Life. Hence to
"bestride the Bird of Life" means to be. master of life,
and like the Bird be able to rise at will into the higher
realms in thought. We can never be a Master of Life
until we have gained this equilibrium; so that no
matter what disturbs us we can rise above it We
)nust hold the picture of ourselves fearlessly standing
on the back of the Great Bird, holding the reins and
guiding ,it, so absolutely poised that we and the Bird
are 1.
Anòthernieaning of Teth as 'a "roof," is that is
we advince spiritually and approach Our Initiation we
develop a cex!ter called bý the Hindus the "Siddhi
center." As this center; develops it forms a real pro.
tecting. roof of glory over the head ofthe aspirant,
from which there pours down a golden rain of force
like a finegolden mist which forms the! Veil of Pro-
tection. It Is the Banner of Love held over the Saints
330 The Key to the Universe
by the Bridegroom spoken of in the Song of Solomon
(ii, 4). "He brought me to the banqueting house
(number 9), and his banner over me was love." In
all pictures of the Saints we see this Banner depicted
as a circle of gold or a halo of light placed horizon..
tally just above the head. This should not be confused
with the nimbus which is placed in the vertical plane
and represents the scintillating colors of the aura.
This Banner and Veil of Protection can be consciously
developed through certain advanced exercises which
are given to the candidate only by his Guru or
teacher.
The letter Teth is also connected with Cosmic
Electricity.
"The Andents represented it (cosmic Electric-
it?') by a serpent, for FolioS hisses as he gMe:
hither and thither, in zigzags. The Kabbalah fig-
ures it with the Hebrew letter Teth (a), whose
symbol is the serpent which played such a promi-
nent part in the M'steries. Its universal number
is 9, for it is the ninth letter of the alphabet and
the ninth door. It is the magical Agent par
excellence, and designated in Hermetic philosophy
'Life infused into Primordial Matter,' the essence
that composes all things, and the Spirit that de-
termines their form."
In short, Cosmic Electricity is the Initiator of
Matter.
As Teth is connected with the sign Leo, the heart,
it is only by overcoming the forces of the heart and
making Leo the Lion tame and obedient to the will,
that the little Christ-child, who is now growing
stronger and stronger day by day, may lead
him and make him lie down with the lamb.
Only thus can we pass the Initiation of num-
ber 9. Yet the Lion which has become tame
and obedient must have lost nothing of his
strength or virility. This is symbolized in the myth
'S. D. Vol. I. 10$.
ThE pth Letter, TF 331
ofSamson who when he slew the lion found:iiithe
carcass much honey. So when the candidate has slain
the passion aspect of the heart-forces which rave like
a lion, he finds the honey, which is both sweetness and
food.
The 9th letter also expresses the idea of Wisdom,
for the protection or roof must be the result of the
Wisdom of the Initiate himself. When he has reached
this step we are told that he must lay down every
weapon, both of offense and defense. He can no
longer seek protection from the power of his strength,
nor can he ask that any being outside of himself shall
protect him, yet he who has attained unto Wisdom is
protected from every ill. In Ecciesiastes we read that,
"Wisdom is a defense. * * * Wisdom strength-
eneth the wise man more than ten mighty men. * * *
Wisdom is better than strength," etc.4 When we have
attained his Wisdom we have learned the lesson of
the 9th letter and are ready to face the Great Initiator.
'Jsidg.a, xiv, 3.9. 'vU, 19.
St. Ce,mai
EGYPTIAN
THE 9TH TAROT CARD
TRE KERMIT
4
THE HERM(T
Smith
MODERN
:* ri
r
,1I
LE1M1TE
Paru: MEDIEVAL
The psh Tarot Card, The HennS 333
THE 9r maor cmi, The Hermit.
The 9th card of the Tarot is called the Hermit. In
we find expressed all the ideas of Initiation, for here
we have a picture of an old man who, in spite of the
fact that as he walks he leans upon a Staff, nevertheless
is strong and upright, with eyes wide open and un
dimmed, looking steadily ahead. He is wrapped in
a long Mantle and in his uplifted right hand carries
a Lantern.
The symbology of this card is plain. The ageof the
Hermit denotes not senility, but the strength and ylgor
of maturity,, hence experience, discretion and Wisdom.
The Staff upon which he leans Is the Staff of thePatri-
archs or that divine strength upon which he has
learned to Jean. It is the power of the 1 Life which
every 'Initiate must gain throughrcomplete mastery of
the forces of nature. It is also the Magic Wand with
which he performs his miracles and by whose use he
proves to the world that he has passed the Çreat Initi-
ationof number 9. It is the power of the 1 Life like
a staff running through and supporting all.. It Is
Aaron's Rod of Power which. will never fail him,
Aaron symbolizing the priestly attributes through
which the Initiate serves, before the throne of the
Great Law. It is the Shepherd's Crook. with which
be can ?uide the straying. and uplift the fallen.. It is
that 'which he has tested and proved, for during all his
long and toilsome journey to the pte of Initiation,
which now stands open before him, it has never failed
hint
The Rod has 7, knots or rings which are the 7 steps
of purification. The lighted Lamp he holds high above
his head is the Light of Knowledge, the Lami of
Truth or the "Word," i. c., "Thy word shall be a light
'to my path, &nd a lamp'unto my feet." his the inner
334 The Key to the Universe
illumination of 1 who has come off victor. Just as in
his earlier steps the Light shone above him as the Star
of Initiation, which he had to follow over deserts,
morasses and desolate regions without losing sight of
it, even though at times the dark mists of earth hid
it from view, so it is still the Light from the 1 Master,
his own Immortal Self, of which we read: "The light
from the One Master, the one unfading light of Spirit,
shoots its effulgent beams on the Disciple from the
very first. Its rays thread through the thick dark
clouds of matter. Now here, now there, these rays
illumine it, like sun-sparks light the earth through the
thick foliage of the jungle growth. But, 0 Disciple,
unless the flesh is passive, head cool, the Soul as firm
and pure as flaming diamond, the radiance will not
reach the chamber (the center of Spiritual Conscious-
ness), its sunlight will not warm the heart." The
Hermit has let the Light reach the chamber of his
heart. He has also made it shine in the chamber or
center of Spiritual Consciousness. Hence the symbol
of the Light being placed in the lantern, i. e., no longer
fitful like a distant star, but in his conscious grasp,
ready to guide him every step of the way.
The Mantle which envelops him and partially hides
the lighted Lamp is the Mantle of Discretion with
which the Initiate must enwrap himself and shield the
full Light of his Lamp from the eyes of the profane.
For every Soul must find the Light within himself crc
he can recognize it in another or even bear its full
effulgence.
This card balances the 7th and 8th cards, the Victor
in his chariot and the Mother-power of Love which
holds the scales of Justice. It expresses the protection
of the Initiates who, altho few in numbers as compared
with the great mass of humanity, are still the Protec-
tors of_Humanity. They stand like a guardian wall
rh. V.ics .1 sks Sil,wc..
The pib CoMmandment: ;335
around mankind. Like watchmen in a - tower, their
Lamps held high, they are ready to fly to help and
succor every child of man who cries out for Light and
help, if the light and help are really needed. But even
this help is given wisely, for there are cases in which
it is best that the child should learn to help itself, even
as a loving mother may wisely allow her babe to cry
itself to sleep, rather than fly to it when she knows that
it needs nothing but sleep. They remain upon the
hilltops. throughoutthe long nights of spiritual dark-
ness, like faithful shepherds watching over their. sleep-
ing sheep, with their Staff ever ready to reach out to
1 who is slipping and falling, its crook ready to lift 1
who is torn and bleeding, and their Mantle of Charity
rea4y to enwrap those who are suffering from the- bit-
ter storms of passion and desire. But dear student,
they are ever wrapped in the Mantle of Discretion,
hence only those who Dare, Do and Keep Silent can
ever see the Light of the Hermit's Lamp.
THE 9TH COMMANDMENT.
9. 'Thou shalt not bear false witness aganst
thy neighbor."Ezodu, xx, 16.
Since 9 is the Number of Initiation,. 2 pertinent
questions at once arise concerning the esoteric inter-
pretation of this Commandment: 1st, who is "thy
neighbor ?" 2nd, what relation does false witness bear
to Initiation? The Bible description- of the man who
fell among thieves and was rescued by the Samaritan
answers the 1st question. "Thy neighbor" is anyone
whom the Great Law brings directly into your Path
who can be helped by you if you are willing to take
note of his needs. -
The question as to what false witness has to do with
Initiation will bear careful analysis. The Soul - is
336 The Key to the Universe
ready to bear the Great Initiation only when it can
face itself and see all things in their true relations.
Over the 1st gateway to the Path there is written in
letters of gold, "Man, Know Thyself," and when the
outward comprehension of this injunction has been
gained, at the very last Gate the Neophyte once more
faces the same sentence, but now written in letters of
living fire within his quivering flesh, "Man, Know
Thyself."
If we would meet the final test of Initiation unap-
pailed, we must accept this precept and strive diligently
to obey it. As the disciples and servants of the True
Self, our senses must be trained not to bear false wit-
ness. To do this we must not accept as final the re-
ports of our senses until they have been checked up
and verified by our reason, experience, judgment and
discrimination, illumined by our intuition. Few per-
sons can bear to have the searchlight of Truth turned
upon their own lives, within themselves. They are
wont to bear false witness by making excuses and
blaming conditions or other persons for the results of
their own shortcomings. At 1 extreme they bear false
witness in the form of exaggerated humility, scourg-
ing themselves with the scorpion whips of self-con-
denmation, looking upon themselves as worms of the
dust unworthy or incapable of lofty attainments. At
the other extreme are those who live in a perfect
glamor of the senses, accepting as right and proper
whatever report the senses make. They forever focus
the lime-light of self-approval and admiration upon
themselves. They are ever posing, dwelling on their
good points, flattering themselves to themselves, excus-
ing every shortcoming with some flattering delusion.
They interpret every phase of life as a stage-setting to
bring them into more favorable notice. In fact, they
are forever acting a part which they have assumed so
The 9th Commandment 337
long that they almost lelieve in it, themselves and
vainly hope that the world believes it to be their true
character. All this is bearing false witness to the
Truth.
If by any chance such persons should demand to be
brought into the Hall of Initiation, there to be con-
fronted with the personality they are really manifest-
ing, they would be appalled at the sight and refuse to
admit that it was their own creation. For the 1st
time they would awake to find their pose revealed, the
show over and no audience present but themselves and
their Great Initiator, with all glamor of the senses
stripped from the reality and standing face to face with
the self they have manifested. These are the ones who
fly shrieking in madness from the sight of their
Dweller. This is the truth back of the many tales of
the terrifying experiences encountered during Initia-
tion. For crc this step can be taken the Soul must
face that which it has created by its "witnessing,"
whether true or false, in everyday life.
That we may not bear false witness against our
neighbor we need to reach the point where we do not
bear false witness against ourselves. Then we are
able to see clearly and consequently can help our neigh-
bor. While we should not contemplate or dwell upon
them, to shut our eyes to truths that are unpleasant or
to imperfections within ourselves which we know ex-
ist, is refusing to recognize Truth, hence is bearing
false witness. While we should mention, emphasize
and dwell upon the good in our brothers and sisters,
it is surely bearing false witness to shut our eyes to
their shortcomings and say that all in them is Good.
That we may bear no false witness we must learn to
seek out the true motives, both in ourselves and in
others. Then we will find that we will no longer
condemn others, because we will realize how much we
338 The Key to the Univer.e
ourselves fall short of manjfsting the ideals we have
chosen. We will see that every Soul is upon some
step of the Path, some of which we may have passed.
And if we have trained our senses not to bear false
witness we will know what motive was back of the
effect which our senses report. And by thus working
from the underlying cause, rather than from the ef-
fect, we will be able to remedy any failure in ourselves
and be a help to others. Thus the 9th Commandment
is given as a preparation for Initiation.
Strive always to see clearly and bear true witness.
Then when you face your Great Initiation there will
be nothing in yourself that has been hidden, denied or
covered up, hence there will be nothing that can af-
fright you, For a the Great Initiator holds out the
Rod of Power he cries with a mighty voice: "Thou
shalt, not bear false witness either against thyself or
thy neighbor." And only as we are able to meet this
test can we grasp that Magic Rod.
CHATER3Z
THE NUMBER 1
9t isfrom-tbis.Number, 10, or: Creative, Na-
ture, the Mother (the Occult- cypher, or. '0,', ever
procreating and multiplying in union with the
unit '1,' or the- Spirit, of Life), that the whole
Universe proceeds."
The. Secret Doctri,ie, Blavatsky, I, 121..
"The ineffable.'Sephiroth are Ten, -so are the
Numbers: * -* tèn: and not nine, tea and' not
eleven.. Understand this, wisdom, and be wise in
the perception." -
Sepher Yetz&ah, 1S
NumberlO is-theNumber. of Completion or Perfec-
tion. through completion; the assembling of the corn-
pleted parts. it is the grand summit of numbers and
their completion, It is the number which expresses
the completion of creation, as mentioned in Genesis
(i, 31)-:. "And- God saw everything, that he -had made,
and,, behold, it was very good." For number 10 con-
tainsall the digits:or creations and returns them;once
more to unity, thus, 1+2+3 I I I 5+6+7+8+9+10
=55=1=1. Hence Number 10 cannot be surpassed.
In it- we again meet- the 0 of unmanifestedi force. with
which we started and whose- emanations .we: have
watched evolve through the 9-digits, :but now the 1st
differentiation, number 1, stands at the right-of -the
circle ready to. begin a new series of manifestation- in
a higher cycle of evolution.
In other words, the' 0 in the beginning contained
all those things which were put aside and leftuncon
quered and unredeemed during a. previous cycle of
evolution, waiting, until the strength, and wisdom- of
number 9. had bcen attained to, consciously take-them
340 The Ke to the Universe
up and from them evolve a new series of numbers
(powers). The 1st number 1 was but a foreshadow-
ing and prophecy of that which it should become at the
close of its cycle, just as the "primitive streak" in the
embryo is a prophecy of the man to be.
In 10 the 0 is no longer a Chaos of undifferentiated
matter, nor a mass of left-overs from a past world
period awaiting the outpouring of the Divine Creative
Force of the 1 Life to start it into evolution, but has
now expressed itself in the perfection of nature and
man. Man, now become the Initiate, has grasped the
Rod of Power (number 1) and separated it from the
overshadowing Q of number 9 and, having identified
himself with the 1 Life, stands at the right hand of
the now manifested forces of the 0 ready in his turn
to become the creator or director of the forces which
are to be manifested during the succeeding cycle. Here
man as a creator must consciously say "Let there be
light," with a full understanding of all it implies, and
by the power of the 1 Life play an active part in the
downpouring of the Light during the new day-period
about to dawn. The initiated Man now stands as a
responsible co-worker with the Divine. It is as
though during the cycle of 1 to 10 God had held the
hand of His child and guided it in carving the statue
or model of the Man to be, the Initiate, while now the
chisel is left in the hand of the matured youth, and he
must create from the materials given him in the be-
ginning the perfect statue whose ideal was set before
him by the Master Sculptor. In other words, the
Man must now accomplish for himself, by consciously'
utilizing the strength and power of the 1 Life, which
during the period from 1 to 9 was evolving him to
this point. Here he must not only redeem his own
leftovers, but as an Initiate he must take his place
with the more advanced Masters in the guardian wall
The Number zo, - 341
around humanity and begin, consciously and volun-
tarily and-because of his great love and compassion,
to bear the burden of the world's suffering and aid in
its redemption.
While the word decad comes from the Greek-word
delsa, meaning 10, it was applied by the Pytbagoreans
to the quarternary, an elementary number denoting
a factor of the Cosmos. And since 1+2+3+4=10,
the word is correctly used in that connection. is
our sign for TEN, named in the Greek D-EC-a, nam-
ing the 'God Cross' whose name is X, and who named
the whole 'D-EC-I-MAL' system,- which is built of
TENs." -
"This Decad, representing the Universe and its -
evolution out of Silence and the Unknown Depths
of the Spiritual Soul, or Anima Mundi, presented
two sides or aspects to the student. It could be,
and was at first, applied to the Macrocosm, after
which it descended to the Microcosm, or man.
There was, then, the purely intellectual and meta-
physical, or the 'Inner Science,' and the as purely
materialistic or 'surface science,' both, of which
could be expounded by and contained in the
Decad. It could be studied, in short, both by the
deductive method of Plato, and the inductive
method of Aristotle. The former started from a
divine comprehension, when the plurality pro-
ceeded from unity, or the digits of the Decad ap-
peared, only to be finally reabsorbed, lost in the
snflnite Circle. The latter depended on sensuous
perception alone, when the Decad could be re-
garded either as the unity that multiplies, or mat-
ter which differentiates; its study being limited'
- to the plane surface, to the cross, or the seven
- which proceeds from the Sen, or the perfect nurn-
ber, on Earth as in Heaven. This dual system -
was brought, together with the Decad, by P7th-
agoras from India." -
- The Pythagoreans made each quarter of the Cosmos
complete, and argued its completeness from the fact
'Th.J.,,uL,SS,rs.v. '5.D,H.603.
342 The Key to the Universe
that 4, being the quartenary and equal to 10, made
what they called the "all complete." They were apt
to give extravagant terms to this number in an effort
to express its perfection. For instance, they are
quoted as comparing it to heaven, because in it all the
digits are indrawn for a period of rest, swallowed up
as it were in Eternity, symbolized by the O while the
I Life stands beside it ready to begin a new cycle of
evolution in the 10.
They also called number 10 Eternity which, haying
neither beginning nor end, is usually symbolized by The
0 alone. It was also called the Sun, for just as the
sun rises on a new day after a night of darkness, the
new day bringing with it all the experiences and con-
tinuing the work of the previous day, so does number
10 begin for the Soul a new outpouring of divine
Light, Love and Power with which to accomplish in
the new cycle. It is also called the Cosmos, because,
as we have shown, the evolution of the Cosmos and
man is set forth in the digits from ito 9, all of which
are swallowed up in 10. Aristotle says that "some
philosophers hold that ideas and numbers are of the
same nature and amount to lOin all."
According to the kabalistic meaning of each number
we have a beautiful conception of the cycle of 10 and
what it should mean in man's unfoldment. In num-
ber 1, which they call the "Crown," Spirit descends
into matter and offers to man a Crown of Life, but he
can attain this Crown only as he unfolds and manifests
the qualities expressed in each of the digits, as follows:
2 is called "Wisdom," 3 "Understanding," 4 "Mercy,"
S "Strength," 6 "Beauty," 7 "Victory," 8 "Splendor,"
9 "Foundation." Therefore, only when we can ex-
press all these qualities can we complete number 10,
called the "Kingdom." Here we find a corroboration
of the teaching of Christian Mysticism that while the
The Number zo 343
Father has crowned us as his hefrs, we are not gods or
Christs in our present undeveloped state. Ozly as we
grow and unfold and express the powers Of the9
digits can we attain and ruleover our "Kingdom" in
number 10.
Another appellation given by sònie mytics to num-
ber 10 is "the Hand of God." This is txplained by the
fact that "The Great Law manifests in two great
divisions, positive and negative, referred to in this
instance as the right hand and the left. The right
hand represents the Great Law working toward per-
fection in perfect harmony and without opposi-
tion, while the left represents the Shadow of
the Law working apparently in opposition to
Good, but in reality a servant of God (good)
which through suffering is bringing ultimate
good out of evil. This latter manifestation is
termed by sòme the buniings of Karma, by others
the fires ò hell, etc., but in reality it is but the left
hand of the Great Law bringing out of all disobedi-
ence, mistake, rebellion 'and selfishness Itssdns 'w'hich
shall ultimately bring to perfection and redeem all That
is in both man and Nature. From another viewpoint
the Great Law with its right hand pours forth all
blessings and with itsieft corrects, adjusts and teaches
the best use of those blessings; or with its right hand
it' sows the wheat and with the left pulls up the
weeds."3 Also while man needs '2 hands with 5 'fingers
on each to accomplish that which he designs, God,
holding within Himself the dùaI forces expressed by
man 'and woman, needs but 1 hand, mighty of accom-
plishment, and represented with 10 fingers instead of
5. The same idea is expressed in many Hindu statues
which have 2 or more pairs of hands denoting powers.
Another phase of the same idea is represented in the
Greek Titan,, Briareus, who had 100 hands.
Still another expression of the power of the Hand
ISis lcu.is Th, Asckss .1 Dass.
344 The Key to the Universe
of God is a great hand with the 2nd and 3rd fingers
lifted and the thumb folded in the palm. From this
ancient and mystical idea the position of the fingers of
the Pope's hand while giving the pontifical blessing
has been derived. The raised 2nd and 3rd fingers
symbolize God and perfected Man pouring out their
blessing. Yet, like all forces manifesting in the physi-
cal world, this blessing may become a curse according
to the desire and will of the officiating pontiff. A
remarkable thing in connection with this position of
the hand is that its shadow resembles the head and
horns of the goat Baphomet, the symbol of Black
Magic. The use of the "shadow of the blessing" was
supposed to be a legitimate power possessed by the
Pope, and was most terribly exercised during the Dark
Ages, in the Inquisition, etc., and woe to him upon
whom the "shadow of the blessing" fell. We still see
pictures of this hand with the word "Benedictionen
upon it, while upon the shadow is the word "Maledic-
tus."
Plotinus taught that number 10 was the Fountain of
Life or the Fountain of Eternal Nature, the stream
of the 1 Life forever flowing forth in 2 currents as it
touched the earth. He also spoke of it as mundane,
representing the world receiving from the Divine the
potencies and powers of the Divine through the 9
digits. For instance, its 2 halves represent man and
woman (5+5=10), while nature (4) with The Christ-
life (6) pulsating through it is represented by 4-f-6=10.
The manifestation of the Trinity and Perfection is
represented by 3+7=10, while duality in its evolution
toward equilibrium or balance is represented by
2+8=10. And finally, InitiatiQn attained through the
power of the 1 Life is expressed by 9+1=10.
"The Pillar and Circle (10), which with Pyth-
agora was the perfect number, contained the Tet-
The Number 10 345
raktys, became later a j're-emiueutly phallic nurn.
ber * amongst the Jews, foremost of all, with
whom it is the male and female Jehovah. * * *
'This idea of connecting the picture of the circle
and its diameter line, that is, the number 10, with
the signification of the reproductive organs, and the
Most Holy Place * a a was carried out construc-
tively in the King's Chamber, or Hol' of Holies,
of the great Pyramid, in the Tabernacle of Moses,
and in the Holy of Holies of the Temple of
Solomon. a a * It is the picture of a double
womb, for in Hebrew the letter He (1). is at the
same time the number 5, and the symbol of the
womb, and twice S is 10, or the phallic number.'
This 'double womb' also shows the duality of the
idea carried from the highest spiritual down to
the lowest or terrestrial plane. 'But the significa-
tion is that it is androgyne or hermaphrodite,
that is, phallus and yoni combined, the number 10,
the Hebrew letter Yod ( ), (he containment of
Jehovah'."4
Number 10 was given to man as a covenant of
strength, for if man was given Will alone, without the
Power to conquer, he would be but the shadow of God
and not His image. "As there are in man S fingers
over against 5, so over- them is established a covenant
of strength, by word of mouth, and by circumcision of
the flesh."
In the allegory of Abram and Sarai when Abram
was 99 years old, that is, when he had passed his
Great Initiation (99=18=9) and was ready to enter
upon the new cycle of 10, the Lord or the Great Law
said unto him, "walk before me, and be thou perfect
[the 1 before the 0 equals the perfect 10). And I will
make my covenant between me and thee, and will
multiply thee exceedingly." That is, number 10 or
the new cycle is to bring forth a new progeny, is to
multiply exceedingly (that is by tens) and by it are
all the nations of the earth to be blessed. Continuing
'S.D.,11486;I,421.
17.
346 The Key to the Universe
the allegory, number 10 becomes the "Father of many
nations" or cycles of human evolution, each 10 starting
a new cycle or nation and bringing it back to unity
again. This Covenant was ratified when Sarai bore
him a son when she was 90 and "well stricken in
years," i. e., when she had passed through all the digits
up to 9 she brought forth the 1 which completed the
cycle of 10. More remarkable still, in the Hebrew,
Sarai is 'written SRI and has a numerical value of
235=10. In the Hebrew SRI is the wife of Abram
and in the 'Hindu SRI is the wife of Vishnu. In both
cases she is the personification of the Feminine Prin-
ciple of the Godhead and is connected with water,
gestation and the moon. But she could not bring
forth until the letter H or 5 had been added to her
name making it Sarah and increasing it to 2355=15=
'6. Thus Sarai (10) had to be fructified by The
Christ-force (6) crc she could bring forth and become
the mother of mankind. This is corroborated by the
fact that the letter H or He represents Heva, Eve and
the womb. H also represents a "householder," the
esoteric meaning of which is to bring forth. There-
fore both Abram and Sarai must gain the power of
the letter H or the power of Eve, crc they can "multi-
ply exceedingly" and bring forth the Children of Israel
or huinanity. With the addition of'the H Abram be-
comes Abraham and Sarai becomes Sarah, thus com-
pleting the symbology of a true covenant between God
and man, i. e., the 10 manifesting on earth as 2 fives,
male and female, and bringing forth a Son, the 1 in
whom all mankind shall be blessed.
CHAFI'ER 38
THE NUMBER 10(Continued).
VEYCTY cosinogony began with a cirde, a point,
2 triangle and a square up to number 9, when it
was synthesized by the first line and circle."
The Secret Doctrine, Blavataky, I, 341.
Apuleius, a Platonic philosopher who traveled ex
tensively through the East seeking Initiation into the
Mysteries, has left many useful hint pertaining to
various ceremonies; in fact, he won for himself the
name of "The -Evening Star of Platonic Philosophy
and the Morning Star of the Neo-Platònic." He is
authority for the statements. as to the great import.
ance placed upon numbers by the-Egyptian-priests,
especially number 10, as representing:man's fitness for
the priesthood.
a The .Bookj of Hermes are theo1destreposi-
tories of numerical Symbology in Western'Oc..
cultism. In them we find that number Sen is the
Mother of the Soul, Life and Light being therein
united. For as the sacred anagram Teruph shows
in the Book of Keys (Numbers), the number 1
is born from Spirit, and the number 10 from Mat.
ter; 'the unity has made the ten, the ten, the
unity."4
An Egyptian priest not only had to have absolute
control over - his -passions and physical appetites, but
had also to be learned in the sciences and be an Initiate
into the. Mysteries. Before offering the sacrifice he
was obliged to fast-for 10 days,during which he had
to conform to a most rigid discipline.
Among the ancients the zodiac was-represented exo-
tericafly with but 10 signs instead of 12 as atpresent.
S. D., IlL 100.
348 The Key to the Universe
The signs Virgo, Libra and Scorpio were united in I
sign, combining in 1 sign the masculine (Scorpio) and
feminine (Virgo) united by the sex attraction (Libra)
balancing the 2.
That early zodiac represented man before the sepa-
ration of the sexes, when the androgynous man of
course combined the 3 now separate expressions of
life in 1. This is corroborated by the myth of Phae-
thon, son of Phoebus, who found the Scorpion stretch-
ing over 2 signs of the zodiac.2
Among the Gnostics only 10 Orders of Angelic
Hierarchies are mentioned as necessary to bring about
perfection, the 11th and 12th not being mentioned since
they pertain to the coming forth of the new cycle, just
as 10 signs really complete the evolutionary cycle of
the zodiac, while Aquarius and Pisces prepare for the
coming forth of a new cycle of the sun in Aries.
"The author of the Source o Measures says
that the foundation of the Kabalah and of all its
mystic books is made to rest upon the ten SeDhi-
roth; which is a fundamental truth. He shows
there Ten Sephiroth or the 10 Numbers, as fol-
lowe :'
This diagram plainly shows 1st the 0 of the Un-
nianifested with the 1 Life like a ray of Light cutting
it into halves. This illustrates in a most simple way
why, as we have so often said, everything manifesting
in the mundane sphere must fall under the Law of
Polarity or Pairs of Opposites. For it will be seen
'Se.p.g253. S.D..1I,40.
TIIi Number zo(Continùéd) 349
at a glance that the descent ottbe 1 Life into mani-
festation must cleave the homogeneous sphere of the
Divine and make it 2 or mundane. Meditation on this
diagram will solve many perplexing questions, especi-
ally the 1 so often asked: Does sex inhere in the Soul?
If we let the circle represent the unmanifested Soul,
1 with God or the 0 and the vertical line the Ray of
Divinity (Atma), descending into that unmanifested
germ, dividing it into the 2 expressions of the 1
(Buddhi, negative; Monas, Positive), it clearly illus-
trates the law that there can be no manifestation on
any plane of differentiation except through the union
of the positive and negative Principles manifested by
the Soul through the 2 sexes. As the Soul is the
reservoir for all the experiences which must be com-
pleted and garnered on earth, only as we experience,
blend and lift up the lower experiences of the Soul as
the mind reports them in the separated sexes, can we
register them in either the positive or the negative
aspects of the Soul or Higher Self.
This diagram also explains the idea of the Group
Soul, for each Divine Ray animates such a circle of
unmanifested humanity, and crc number 10 can be
evolved from it and the 1 (Son) stand at the right
hand of the cipher (Father) all the numerals in the
separated halves of the circle must each be evolved and
then indrawn.
That which is true of the Higher Self is correspond-
ingly true of the lower personality. Each personality
is such acircle or cipher and must unfold all the nu-
merals in itself as qualities, etc. For crc man, can be-
come number 10 or the perfect "all-complete," the
circle must stand on his left hand while with his right
hand he grasps the Staff of the Patriarchs or number
1, the 1 Life with which he shall consciously evolve
the new cycle. In other w rds, he must so truly have
350 The Key, to the Universe
lost his idea of separateness that be is 1. with the
world (Q) and with all that is, his personality swal-
lowed up and the new 0 become the workshop in
which he is to create and bring forth.
The injunction to overcome the sense of separate-
ness is apt to bring confusion to many minds,, but the
idea is that while we must realize our oneness with all
that is, this sense of oneness can be attained only by
entering into the consciousness of the Higher Self.
We must be intensely and completely ourselves crc
we can become 1 with all. Then we are no longer
like a grain of sand tossed hither and thither by every
wind that blows, lost in a monotonous sameness of
shape and characteristics, or 1 of a mass of humanity
swayed by thought waves not their own, but have be-
come like a star or planet steadily circling in our
appointed orbit; consciously expressing our God-
given powers with a full appreciation of our
position; shedding our Light, help and influence
on all because we know our positiolt as an
integral part of the 1 Life. But since man
today is but an imperfect reflection of the Higher
Self we must reverse the numbers in the circle, thus:
Let us consider physical man as the circle and the
ray from the Higher Self as the animating Principle,
1st appearing as a Dot in the center, then extendin
above and below until it separates the sphere into
halves. These halves we will call the personality and
the Individuality, within which are the potentialities
The Number Io(Conti*ued) 351
of all the digits. Beginning with. .2,. the 1st mundane
number, we- evolve inside 1 half until we. reach 5 or
manhood. At this point we become aware: of the
Higher Self (1) and The Christ-force (6) and begin
to reach upward: in evolution until: we attain our Great
Initiation in number,9. Then once more we, recog-
nize, but in a far. wider sense, that while we are, man
we: have- become' more than man,- just as man is an
animal, but. more than an, animal., In short, that as
man we have within us 2 currents of force flghting1for
mastery,;the personality and the Higher Self. . From
this -point onward there- is 'no, progress save as we
grasp. with- our enligbtened Will- the. Rod of Power
and cpnsciously work with. the 1 Law, which we now
see not-as- a line.of separationbut as the-i Life com
mon. to . both - the personality and the Individuality.
Henceforth there is no more separation either from our
Higher Selves or from all that is. Then will the now
more than man (what the Kabalah calls the 2nd He)
send forth his creative Ray and repeat the process. This
drama is enacted before, our eyes daily in the unfolding
and evolution of the seed and.the hatching of-the egg.
Let us, open our eyes to see and our hearts to under-
stand.:
TheJcircleof the nought or cipher is. often alluded
to as the "Crown" or the "Crown of. Ineffable Glory,"
while the. 9r digits are represented as bril1iant.jewels
or stars. in this. crown. This is. the "crownoflife"
spoken of ii Revelation (ii, 1O),."Be ye-faithful unto
death (i.e.,, Initiation),. and--I- (the 1. Life) will give
thee a crqwn ot life." In the most, famous book on
the Kabalah,.called.the.Zohär or.Light,,we find that:
"Wheji He [the Infiniie, OJ assunied'the form
(of the crown, or' the first. Sephira), He caused 9
splendid: lights to emanate, from it shining
through i.diffused a, bright-. light1 lu, all direc-
352 The Key to the Universe
tions. That is, these 9 with his one (which was
the origin * * * of the 9), together made
the 10, that is D, or or the sacred Ten
* * * and these numbers were 'the Light.' "
Among the Hindus number 10 is referred to as a
magic power. The cipher represents the vast field of
man's as yet unmanifested nature and powers, which
are nothing to him except as by his attainment and use
of the Rod of Power he brings them into manifesta-
tion and gives them their proper place in 10.
Among the Masons number 10 is a sign of union
and good faith, expressed by the joined hands or the
Master-grip, the fingers of the 2 hands making 10.
There are 10 double numbers which add up to 10,
the 1st digits of each increasing from 1 to 9, the 2nd
digits decreasing from 9 to 1, thus: 10, 19, 28, 37,
46, 55, 64, 73, 82, 91.
THE 10 LEPERS.
"And as he entered into a certain village, there
met him ten men that were lepers * * *
it came to pass that, as they went, they were
cleansed. * * * And one of them * *
turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God.
* * * And Jesus answering said, Were there
not ten cleansed? but where are the nine?"
St. Luke, xvii, 11-19.
In the parable of the 10 men who were lepers, there
is a mystical reference to number 10 as a complete
number. There were 10 who were cleansed, i. e., man-
kind in their evolution have passed through the cycle
of the 9 digits and lo they were lepers or were joined
unto death. When the complete number 10 is reached
The Christ commands these 9 digits that they show
themselves to the priests, i. e., to the priestly power of
the illumined intellect, which must now scan all the ex-
periences of the liferepresented by the digitsand
* S.D. II 42.
The Number io(Coninued) 353
decide if all the leprous tendencies which bound them
to death have been healed and the sting of death swal-
lowed up in Victory. When this is done they are
healed.
But there remained only 1 who returned to give
thanks, hence the question "where are the 9?" was
not a question of reproach, but a most perti-
nent 1 calling attention to the fact of the 9
being swallowed up in the 1 or 10; the fact
that the Great Initiation was complete. For - it
is as 1 that the cycle of the 9 digits returns to
give thanks and to start out on a new cycle. Again,
this 1 who returned was a stranger, a Samaritan. The
meaning of Samaria is "to guard," hence this 1 is the
guardian or the manifestor of the experience of the
cycle of the 9 digits.
"The 'Boundless Circle,' the Zero, becomes a
number only when one of the õther nine figures
precedes it, and thus manifests its value and po-
tency."1
While every number 10 is a return to unity, still
every time it thus returns it brings a new experience,
which is expressed by the digit which is manifesting
the 10, thus
Number 1 in 10 is the 1st manifestation of the
Light. In the 1St day of creation "God said, Let there
be light; and there was light. And God saw the light
[the 1], that it was good" or 10.
Number 2 in 3) is the separation into the positive
and negative; the descent of the Light into matter;
the creation of heaven and earth; the firmament which
"divided the waters which were under the firmament
from the waters which were above the firmament.
* * * and God sawthat it was good" or 10.
Number 3 in 30 marks the manifestation of the
Trinity reaching down into matter and expressing and
'S. D... L 123.
354 The Key to the Universe
bringing forth. It was on the 3rd day that the earth
brought forth. "And God saw that it was good" or
10.
Number 4 in 40 marks the completion of the physical
creation. In this cycle the whole path of the earth's
evolution is marked out and the Foundation Stone laid.
"And God saw that it was good" or 10.
Number 5 in 50 marks the perfection of all living
things. Even man as a perfect animal type is her,
perfected. "And God saw that it was good" or 10.
Number 6 in 60. In this cycle The Christ-force
completes the informing or animating of all things.
Animal man becomes the image of God and is given
dominion over the earth. "And God saw everything
that he had made and behold it was very good" or a
perfect 10.
Number 7 in 70. On the 7th day God rested and
handed over to man, now made in His image and hence
responsible for his future evolution, the reins of gov-
ernment. Henceforth man himself, with everything
made for him and placed in the Garden of Eden, must
tend and cultivate that Garden and rule its animals.
God saw that this day was perfect or 10, so He blessed
and hallowed it. Man was not handicapped in any
way, for all that God had prepared for him was per-
fect.
During the cycles beginning with number 8 in 80
we have to deal with the future of man. For God
rests, yet watches over His creations, always ready to
respond to every sincere cry for help. But from
onward man is held accountable for his dominion over
the earth. In this cycle he must hold the scales, and
in them must weigh and balance all things; for only
thus can his evolution be accomplished. And when
God sees that there is a just balance and good, he will
bless it and make it perfect and complete or 16.
The Number zo(Continued) 355
Number 9 in 90. When this number is reached
man, having been weighed in the balance and not
found wanting, must meet the Great Initiator and
wrest from him his power. And God, knowing that
this is man's heritage and that man has reached out
and touched His robe, has eaten of the Tree of Life
and "become as one of us," will then pronounce it
good and bless it and call it perfect, or a complete 10.
This explanation of the days of creation is so obvi-
ous that the only wonder i3 that man can be so blinded
and waste so much time and fruitless theological dis-
cussion in the effort to build up such a dogma as
"original sin," with all its attendant evils, hopeless
confusion and discouragements.
The Bible is a most wonderful occult treatise, full
of cryptic utterances, each sentence expressing vol-
umes, yet so very clear, once the mind has thrown off
the shackles of prejudice and the misconceptions due
to materialistic interpretations and is willing to read
with open eyes, the while listening to the Still Small
Voice of the Spirit for the spiritual interpretationthe
"Spirit who is with thee always, even to the end of the
world, will bring all things to thy remembrance."
CHAPTER 39
THE 10TH IÆrrit, Yod (r).
"He produced Yod, predominant in work,
crowned it, combined and formed with it Virgo
in the Universe, Elul (Sept.) in the Year, and the
left hand of Man."Sepher Yetzirak, 24.
While Yod is 1 of the 12 simple letters it is 1 of the
most important, corresponding to the English letters
I and Y.1 Its meaning is "the origin of all things,"
for by and from Yod were all the other letters created.
Its hieroglyph is "the finger of man," pointing upward,
the sign of aspiration and also of command.
Yod represents humanity in its entirety, the 2 ex-
pressions, male and female (2X5) in the 1. It ex-
presses all the potencies of the Father (1), but now
fully expressed in number 10. Here we find the 1 no
longer piercing the circle of undifferentiated substance
and starting into evolution all the potencies resting in
the darkness, but out of the mysterious depths of this
universe of unmanifested life, the O all the numbers
have now evolved. Hence the 1 has taken its stand at
the right hand of the 0.
Yod, representing the Active Principle of all life
manifestations, symbolically stands for the Reincar-
nating Ego. Just as the 10 recurs again and again
in its multiples, each 10 symbolizing a cycle of evolu-
tion and experience, so does the Ego add experience
to experience throughout the cycles of evolution on its
journey of unfoldmentits great "Cycle of Necessity."
And just as each time a 10 is reached its value is
raised by the power of its new digit (20, 30, 40, etc.)
' See V. of 1.. 127.130.1.
The zoth Letter, Yod 357
while its greater cycles are indicated by the addition
of ciphers (100, 1,000, 10,000, etc.), so does the Ego
pass through its minor incarnations, each domin-
ated by a special phase of development comparable
to an added digit. Then at certain cyclic periods
it reaches decisive or major incarnations in which, like
the 10, it takes upon itself a continuation of its great
and original mission in manifestation. This is a new
and higher cycle, during which it unfolds or adds
greater and higher aspects of manifestation to its ex-
perience, just as the number 1 adds more ciphers.
Each such new cipher means that the Soul has entered
upon a new and as yet unmanifested experience, a
higher phase of the old experiences which it has passed
and successfully expressed. Just as a boy passes and
successfully manifests all that childhood holds of ex-
perience for him, then enters upon the experiences of
manhood, etc., so in a far greater degree does the Real
Self add cipher to cipher throughout all eternity. And
like the 1, the Ego expresses these powers in its life
and manifestation, so that no 1 can mistake an ad-
vanced Ego for a primitive 1, any more than he could
mistake a 100 for a 10.
Just as the individual passes through minor and
major incarnations or cycles, so humanity as a whole
passes through minor cycles of unfoldment correspond-
ing to the digits, and then has its decisive or major
cycles in which a perfect manifestation of the Divine
Man or 10 is expressed in the world in the person of
an Avatar. While the periodic falling away from pre-
vious religious teachings and principles among sub-
races and nations may seem like a lapse and a return
to the barbaric and selfish principle that "might is
right," still such periods of war and barbarism are but
the burning up of the chaff of the old cycle, or the
indrawing of the digits into the Q.
358 The Key to the Universe
Every Avatar is the embodiment and expression of,
and brings to the world, a new cycle or a new 0 of
unmanifested Truth which the nations of the ensuing
cycle must unfold and manifest to the best of their
ability. Thus, while all Avatars are perfect and com-
plete, as number 10 is perfect and complete, still each
comes with an added cipher. This is why no nation,
society or individual can really progress while they
cling to precedent and the traditions of the past. Each
new age is a new 0 which can be developed only
through the Light of The Christ Dot in that 0. which
manifests through the inspired teachings of that age,
couched in the terms of its race thought and including
its most advanced discoveries. In the individual life
each new step is such a Q whose guiding Light is
Intuition.
Many critics look upon the Christian religion as a
failure because most of the so-called Christian nations
are now not exemplifying its principles in their deal-
ings with each other, yet it has been and is lived out
and manifested today by millions of its followers, who
are the golden grain or the harvest of its cycle. But
since the burning of the chaff makes a dense black
smoke, a superficial observer is apt to overlook the fact
that the harvest of that cycle has been gathered, and
may think that the field itself is being destroyed and
that no future crops can be raised, yet in truth the
burning is but a preparation for the new cycle.
In the Kabalah the sacred word Yod-He-Vau-He
represents Jehovah, also God and man, the Higher
Self and the personal self united by the "bridge" and
bringing forth the next creation or the 2nd H. Yod
represents the Higher Self, H or number 5 represents
the human personality and Van (6) the link that unites
the 2. This sacred word therefore expresses all that
we have said about number 10. Being an expression
The ioth Letter, Yod 359
of cyclic law, it embodies the recognition of the divinity
of man, through the union of the personality with the
divine Higher Self, the 1 Life flowing unimpeded
through both and making Man a true representative
of the 7 fold Elohim, for the "likeness" has now
evolved into the "image."
The 10th Sephira unfolds naturally from the 9th and
thus completes the cycle of The Mystic Rose, as well
as the decad of the numbers. It is called in the Kaba-
lah, Malkuth, the Kingdom, also The Queen, Matrona
or the Inferior Mother, The Bride, also Shekinah, and
is represented by the divine name "Adonai," and
among the Angelic hosts by the name Kerubim.
00
1wio
4J
The zoth Tarot Card 361
THE lOrix TAROT CARD, The Wheel of Life.
The 10th card of the Tarot depicts a wheel, called
he Wheel of Life or the Wheel of Fortune. The
word tarot itself means a wheel or something that
rotates, its beginning and end in 1, or endless time in
eternity. "The importance of the picture of the Orb
which named all wheels is further shown in the fact
that human language was made on this Ball, Circle
and Wheel. Thus ORB-IT names 'the going of the
Orb', and even the rut in the road made by the wheel
is called 'Orbita' because the rut shows the route, rute,
ruis or way, or road of the Wheel. Any schoolboy
can understand the general plan for the making of
words on the Sun. The Rota or Wheel, named every-
thing Rotary and going in rota-t-ion, and that which
was attributed to the action or causings of the Sun,
such as rolling, rotting, roasting."2
This Wheel or 0 is pivoted upon the upper end of
the upright 1 while at the base are 2 entwined serpents,
representing the 1 Life manifesting as duality upon
earth. This Wheel is sometimes represented as sus-
pended between 2 uprights expressing the same
symbology, but more crudely, for the Wheel of Life
to be a perfect number 10 must be supported by the
1 Life, yet must find its base supported in the balanced
pair of opposites, the 2 serpents.
Poised with outspread wings above the top of the
Wheel is the Sphinx, the sign of calm, equilibrated
Wisdom and Perfect Justice. The figure has the paws
of a lion and holds a sword in its right paw. It is
crowned with the symbol of Venus. On the right side
of the wheel we see Anubis, the Egyptian dog-faced
godthe symbol of goodascending, bearing in his
right paw the Caduceus and having on his head the
symbol of Mercury. On the left side of the wheel
' The Jarvi, Letter,. xi.
362 The Key to the Universe
we see Typhon, the Egyptian god of evil and destruc-
tion, descending with a trident in his hand. These 2
figures on the Wheel indicate that good is ever aspir-
ing and ascending, while evil is ever fleeing before it
and descending into darkness and disintegration.
The balanced and reclining sphinx represents the
supremacy and command which Wisdom has. over both
good and evil. Anubis and Typhon represent the
opposition of good and evil and indicate that evil must
descend and be disintegrated that its force may rise
and manifest as good at the next upward turn of the
Wheel. It also presents the idea that good must tri-
umph through aspiration and incessant equilibration.
The Wheel is the original 0 which we considered in
the beginning as the Garden of Eden in which infant
humanity started out on its "Cycle of Necessity." But
now the Wheel has become the Law as Karma, "The
wheel of the good law which grinds by night and
day."
THE 10TH COMMANDMENT.
10. "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house,
thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his
manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor
his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's."
Exodus, xx, 17.
Moses was gi'-en 10 Commandments to bring down
from the mountain for min's guidance. But they were
written upon 2 tables of stone,1 again the perfect 10
separated into its 2 fives, man and woman.
As number 10 is the Number of Completion, it is the
ingathering of all experiences into the 0 of fulfill-
ment. Therefore if we have really reached number 10
there will be nothing of another's to covet, for all things
will be ours. The thing above all others that will hold
us back from complete realization of our oneness, both
with the unmanifested Dot within the circle which is
See V. of I.. Chapter xxv. The Two Table: of Stoac.
The ioth Commandment 363
ever ready to unfold new and more wonderful fields
of experience and also with the ingathered experiences
of the past cyclesymbolized by the 1 which now
stands at the right hand of the 0is to covet any-
thing. Even when we have reached the point where
we are 1 with all that is, this oneness does not mean
that we as individual Souls shall have every experi-
ence and pass through every condition, but that we
shall have just that which belongs to us and is needed
to round out our experience and fit us for our own
place in the whole where we will enjoy the fruits of
the experiences of all the others. To covet that which
is another's is to lust after it, and as long as we lust
after anything we are not and cannot be complete or
at 1 with it.
This, however, does not mean that we are never to
seek after, desire or aspire to greater and higher at-
tainments. There is a great difference between seek-
ing and finding that which is necessary for our growth,
and lusting after or coveting something that belongs
to another, and which we are by no means sure is best
for us. We are told to grow as the flower grows.
This means that as we evolve through the 9 digits we
are to create around ourselves an aura comparable to
the circle in the 10 and realize that our Real Self is the
Dot within this aura which must bring all its potenti-
alities into manifestation by the time number 10 is
reached. Number 1 may be likened to a gardener
standing in the midst of a circular field and scattering
his seeds, while in number 10 the seeds have sprung
up thickly and borne fruit, leaving no room for the
gardener, so he now takes his stand beside the fruitful
field. Within the circle of our aura are the seeds of
everything needed for our completeness, even though
as yet unmanifested. Just as the seeds of the future
world rested in potentiality in the darkness of the 0
364 The Key to the Universe
in the beginning, so have we all within our 0. And
as the gods said over the 0 of tmmanifested world-
stuff in the beginning, so must we say: "Let there be
light." For we have recognized the radiant Star of
Initiation as the center of our 0 and it is now our
task to bring into manifestation that which we know
is within us, be it something necessary for the little 1
which stands beside the 0 or for the unfolding of the
Star which shines in the center.
By the time we have reached the number 10 we are
no longer children to ask even God for our daily bread,
for we have passed our Initiation in number 9 and
must stand alone and consciously create through the
power of the Dot which we have unfolded within us.
Jesus standing at this step said: "I have bread to eat
that ye know not of." We must no longer draw to
us that which has been manifested by another, even
though we think we can draw it from the source of
Divine Supply, for the Great Mother has ceased to
feed us at her breast, since we have outgrown that kind
of nourishment. When we were babes we drew our
supply from that which our mother had gathered, eaten
and furnished us in the form of milk, but when we
grow up we must minister to our own needs through
the exercise of our own powers. Just so when we are
no longer children spiritually. We must minister to our
needs by bringing into manifestation, through the
power within us, the supply which is always present
potentially in our aura. To do otherwise is to covet
that which belongs to another, lusting after that which
is not our own. For we are demanding that another
furnish us with that which we have the power to mani-
fest for ourselves.
We must train our minds to realize that we have
within the 0 of our aura just those forces whose
manifestation is needed for our unfoldment. and that
The 10th Commandment 365
we have the creative power of thought and will by
means of which we can and must bring into being,
from out the seeming nothingness of our 0, that
which we need both for the physical conditions and
for our spiritual perfection. Many pupils in despair
cry out: "If the Masters are so powerful and can
see how hard I am trying and how hampered I am by
poverty, why do They not give me that which I need
so sorely? They must know.that I desire it only that
I may do Their work unhampered." But the Masters
are wise and loving as well as powerful, and would
rather endure the reproachful complainings of their
children than take away the very test which above all
others they need to complete their strength, quicken
their faith and awaken in them the knowledge that
they also have within them the power to become
Masters if they will. Others more orthodox cry: "I
have prayed to God. I have lived daily with Christ. I
have striven to use everything I possess for His glory,
yet why am I still poor, sick, lonely, unloved and for-
saken ?" The best answer the Church can give is:
"Whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth.' The more
you suffer in this life the greater your reward in
heaven," etc. All this is false witness against the
loving Christ, and has done more to hold back the
perfection of the Race than many things called sins.
The next natural question is, If each Soul has an
ample supply for all its needs within its own aura, why
does not that supply automatically manifest itself as
it is needed? Because the perfection of the Soul means
that it must learn how consciously to use its powers.
Hence only as we are able to manifest them can we be
trusted with their use. It is much as though an igno-
rant maid-servant were offered every up-to-date con-
trivance to make her work easy, every convenience and
every comfort, and her mistress should offer to explain
366 The Key to the Unwerse
them 1 by 1, saying: "Whenever you need help just
ask me to explain the thing you are using; for if I
tried to explain the use of all at the same time I would
only confuse and discourage you." And suppose the
maid, instead of learning to use 1 at a time tucked them
all away in some dark closet and went on working in
the same old, hard way. Could the mistress prevent
the maid from experiencing the unnecessary toil and
suffering her refusal to learn entailed? Yet this is
just what many, many complaining Souls are doing in
their spiritual households.
The way to make use of our possibilities and expe-
rience the comforts which our loving Father-in-heaven
has provided for us, is 1st to say, over and over again
until we realize it, that all that is needed is already
ours in potentiality and that it is our present task to
show our appreciation of our heavenly Father's care
by bringing out the various powers and forces and
learning to use them to bring into manifestation our
supply. We must 1st make a mental picture of just
what we want and repeat it until we see it clearly,
saying: "I want to bring this thing out of my dark
closet and put it to work." If it is money we need, we
must make a visual picture of it coming to us, not from
someone else, but from out our own storehouse. We
must not see it coming to us from another or wait for
it to be given to us or we will be bitterly disappointed.
We must see it coming from within our own 0 as a
result of the diligent use of all our powers. By so
doing we will never be tempted to covet that which
belongs to another, for we will know that our Father
has placed plenty for us in the dark storehouse of the
uninanifested and that it is all ours for the bringing out
into the Light Therefore, just as we would make every
effort in hunting for a long buried treasure in a dark
cellar, so must we turn on the Light within ourselves,
The zoth Comnwndnwnt 367
that the possibility and the means of our attaining it
may be revealed to us. That is, just as the Light which
entered the dark 0 of Chaos in the beginning created
a worldnot out of nothing, but out of the material
already present in the darknessso must the Light
within the center of our 0, "The star whose ray thou
art," reveal to us all that we need to create our world
and start out on a new cycle of manifestation. Only
thus can we complete number 10. Until then, once
we have turned from the lights of the world, the Star
of Initiation and the Sun of Righteousness will be apt
to dazzle our eyes and make the darkness of the
unmanifested seem more profound, while through the
darkness the muttering thunder will continually ruin-
ble the warning, "Thou shalt not covet"
CHAPTER 40
TUE JOY OF COMPLETION.
"Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands.
Serve the Lord with gladness: come before his
presence with singing. * * * For the Lord is
good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth en-
dureth to all generations."Psalms, i, 25.
"Believe thou not that sitting in dark forests,
in proud seclusion and apart from men; believe
thou not that life on roots and plants, that thirst
assuaged with snow from the great Rangebelieve
thou not, 0 Devotee, that this will lead thee to
the goal of final liberation."
The Voice of Silence, Blavatsky, 30.
Since number 10 is Completion it is well to close
this volume on the 1st cycle of the digits with some
definite thoughts on the characteristics of Completion
and how they should be related to our individual lives.
The attributes of Completion are, 1st, Peace, the
struggle of accomplishment is over; 2nd, Harmony, all
the conflicting elements have found their proper places
and hence work harmoniously together; 3rd, Joy, the
joy of achievement, of attainment; the vibration of
ecstasy that comes when the creation or outer manifes-
tation expresses the ideal. Job tells us that when the
foundations of the physical earth were completed and
the earth was ready for man, "The morning stars sang
together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy."1
This creation was accomplished in an outpouring of
joy, love and harmony, just as tothy we find the joy
and harmony in the happy songs of the birds con-
stantly sending out harmonious vibrations which help
most materially to unfold and perfect the leaves and
flowers. In fact, if we are to believe the Bible or any
a .7ob. xxxviii, 7.
The Joy of Completion 369
other Sacred Scripture, the creation of the earth was
set to music of the most joyful measure, symbolized
by the spoken Word. The very rhythm of the earth,
even the rock strata proclaim it, as well as the persist-
ent joyousness of all Nature which ever returns to
smiles after tears. No matter how devastatrng the
storm, or how appalling the catastrophe, Nature will
in a few short months or years heal the ugly wounds
and cover the scars with living verdure. After the
tempest and shipwreck, how beautifully the sunlight
dances upon the waters! After the storm how green
the leaves, how glad the songs of the birds!
Joy is the keynote of creation ever proclaiming to
man God's Divine Plan of peace, harmony and per-
fection. It is Nature's voice proclaiming the utter
fallacy of the belief in the supremacy of error or evil,
telling man that only through joy and peace and
harmony can completion be reached; that all which is
apart and cannot vibrate to this joy and harmony is
ephemeral, to be swept aside as a mere passing phase
of existence. It is the grand Psalm of Life speaking
of the unswerving on-going of The Lord of Hosts, i. e..
the Law of the hosts of the air, the water, the earth,
and the fire, who has looked upon His works and pro-
claimed them good.
"And thou shalt rejoice in every good thing which
the Lord thy God hath given thee." (Deut., xxvi, 11).
In spite of all that man can do to mar Nature by his
evil thoughts, his inharmonies, his vile emanations, his
wars, etc., we still find her persistently smiling, per-
sistently calling the children of men to rest upon her
bosom.
Geologists tell us that the earth was created during
4 great eras called the Eozoic, Paleozoic, Mesozoic and
Cenozoic, thus confirming the occult teaching that 4
is Nature's Foundation Stone upon which the Comple-
870 The Key to the Universe
tion of number 10 is to be erected (1±2+3+4=10).
Through all these long ages while the physical earth
was passing through its evolution toward Completion
in number 10, there were terrible upheavals, changes
and what man might call evils, yet the Sons of God
spoken of by Job, were not overcome with sorrow for
that which was swept away to make room for the new,
but instead they shouted for joy, knowing full well that
change must succeed change until the completion of
number 10, because it contains the achievements of all
the digits, not 1 thing being lost.
The evolution of the planet has taught us that
out of imperfection is perfection builded up and
brought forth, hence there is nothing to grieve
over or regret if an experience has tended toward
our perfection and completion, for the earth
today is of the same substance as that which
was breathed out as fire-mist in the beginning, but
under a different phase of expression. We still find
that it contains all things for man's well being, not only
food, clothing, healing herbs, etc., but all things needed
to build his cities, to carry on his commerce and to
light and cheer him on his way. We also find Nature
always beautiful and gracious, with ever a mystical
and magic power to charm.
While the earth as a dwelling place for man reached
the completion of the 1st expression of number 10 in 4,
man, being septenary, must pass through the cycles of
evolution indicated by the digits up to 7 to reach his 1st
cycle of completion. Thus the earth reaches its comple-
tion in 4 periods (1+2+3+4=10), man reaches his
completion in 7 (1+2+3+44-5+6+7=28=10) and
Super-Man in 10 periods (1+2+3+4+5+6+7+8+
+10=55=10). Since Nature has passed her 1st
cycle she becomes for man a completed Book of the
Law, "written with the finger of God," in which every
The Joy of Complelion 371
step of man's evolution is exemplified; for on his
higher spiral he must pass through the steps corre-
sponding to those which brought Completion to the
Earth. Hence in Nature there is worked out and dis-
played before man an answer to every problem to be
met with in his evolution, even though, until man
realizes his oneness with Nature and his power to affect
her, he is continually casting the reflection of his own
inharmonies upon her.
One of the great lessons written on every page of
the Book of Nature, and which runs as a golden thread
through every expression of the 1 Life manifesting in
her, is the lesson of the joy and gladness and the
eternal peace and harmony in life; the ever reverting
back to joy and harmony after each disturbance of her
equilibrium, together with the ephemeral and transitory
nature of all inharmony. This is man's great lesson.
And until he learns it he will be like the planet while
forming, i. e., subject to terrible storms, cataclysms and
disasters.
Through an almost universal misconception of all
spiritual teachings, man has been and is inclined to lay
great stress on the necessity of suffering; in fact, this
phase of spiritual teaching has been carried to such
great extremes that it has been looked upon as meri-
torious to suffer. Man has even used his intellect and
will to devise tortures for his body and for his mind,
thus deliberately setting himself up as critic and judge
of that which God has created, forgetting that man is
made in God's image and that man's physical body is
necessary to complete God's expression in matter. Just
as a physical planet was needed to give God a field of
action on the physical plane, and just as God made
the physical planet beautiful, harmonious and complete1
so must man's body be beautiful, harmonious and com-
plete ere he can be said to have laid the physical foun-
372 The Key to the Universe
dation on which the Super-Man can begin his evohi-
tion.
Remember that even the highest and purest inspira-
tion must be interpreted by the brain of the 1 giving
it out, hence only that which is found written in,
and can be proved by, the great Book of Nature,
can be absolutely depended upon. This Book of Nature
each Soul must ultimately learn to read for himself.
No matter how high or advanced the Teacher, the only
perfect teaching is to show man how to decipher and
interpret the Book of Nature for himself. If this were
done there could not be such a wide gulf between
science and religion. Hence in our contemplation of
number 10 we wish to turn from the interpretation of
the Book of Life as sorrow and suffering and empha-
size the gospel of Joy; to reiterate again and again
that as long as we dwell in the thought of sorrow or
permit ourselves to believe that the only way to evolve
God-ward is to trample on His gifts, to insult Him with
the idea that all the beauty and perfection and joy of
life have been evolved through ages of growth, not to
make man's pathway through these lower levels of
evolution more joyful and to teach him of the grand-
eur and goodness of the wonderful overflowing gra-
ciousness of Divine Love "that would not that any
perish but all have eternal life," but that all this won-
derful stage setting was elaborated merely as a tempta-
tion; to hold man back; to make his struggles harder;
that we must expect to suffer, etc.
As long as the teachers of religion make its
living a dark, hopeless sacrifice, telling nnn he
must give up all joy, all ease and comfortall
that God had so carefully and bountifully pre-
pared for the happiness of bis childrenand must
spend the rest of his life in scourgings, either of
the flesh or of the mind, they are demanding something
The Joy of Completion 373
which is not in the scheme of God's Law; something
not necessary but inimical to man's Completion; some-
thing not written in the Book of Nature. Hence it is
natural for the whole mind and inner consciousness of
man to rebel.
Because man for a time believes what is taught
him, he is overcome with a sense of his utter un-
worthiness, but later on when he finds that he cannot
easily kill out the joy of life which is innate in him,
he turns away from the gloomy picture of religion as
a sacrifice, and pushes aside what he is taught are the
demands of his Soul, until he has enjoyed the beautiful
world and has listened to the natural cry of his senses
for a time. Because he is taught that all the beauty
and enjoyment of life are wrong, he separates Divine
Love from life; separates life from God, looks upon
joy as evil. The world of beauty he is taught to con-
sider a temptation, a field in which he can revel only
as a traitor to his divine nature, a field in which to
express only his lower instincts. So with his higher
nature pushed back he goes forth to indulge his
lower nature and its appetites, to kill and slaughter
birds, animals and his fellow men; to spread death and
disaster wherever his foot has trodden. Because he
is taught that the gold and wealth stored up for his
use are inherently evil, are put there but to tempt his
greed and avarice, he turns his back on the good that
the wealth of nature was intended to bring about and
tries to grasp all he can; tries to enjoy in his own
selfish way all that wealth and power can give him. But
the Law is inexorable and everything that inter-
feres with the peaceful and harmonious joy of life
and with evolution must be ruthlessly swept aside and
Nature allowed to return again to smiles.
So man's misguided religious teaching and selfish-
ness, which have turned the gifts of God into
374 The Key to the Universe
instruments of self indulgence, must be swept
away. This is done by war, famine, pestilence
and all manner of evils. Who dare say, how-
ever, that these are intended as part of God's plan,
and are necessary to man's Completion? They are
only the inevitable result of man's own perversion of
God's laws and gifts. Who shall say that those well
meaning teachers whom Jesus called "blind leaders of
the blind," who have impressed on the world for so
many long ages the desirability of suffering and have
made religion such a dark picture that man has
rebelled, are entirely blameless?
The humanity of the world as a whole will never
reach Completion in number 10 until the leaders and
teachers permit The Christ to anoint their eyes, that
they may be healed of their blindness and look in
Nature's Book for the interpretation of the inspira-
tion given them, and learn to read with the open eye
of Spirit. Once this is done they will teach man the
gospel of Joy; teach him to look for the 1 Life, the
Spark of spiritual oneness in all things; teach him that
man is made in God's image, hence all things in him
are expressions of the Divine, when put to their proper
uses; that religion is seeing the Divine back of all and
manifesting it in the life; that nothing that is selfish
is in reality joyous, nor can it endure, but that real joy
is the enduring reality of vibrating in harmony with
the divine ideal. Then Number 10 for man will bring
beauty, joy, peace, harmony, love, understanding, dis-
cretion, wisdom, realization and Completion. Then with
the Sons of God man can shout for joy and sing under-
standingly the hymn he now sings with little real
appreciation:
"Joy to the world; the Lord has come.
Let earth receive her King,
Let every heart prepare him room,
And heaven and nature sing."
The Joy of Completion 375
"Blessed shalt thou be in the city, and blessed shalt
thou be in the field, blessed shalt be the fruit of thy
body, and the fruit of thy ground, and the fruit of thy
cattle; the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy
sheep; blessed shall be thy basket and thy store, blessed
shalt thou be when thou comest in, and blessed shalt
thou be when thou goest out, the Lord shall cause thine
enemies that rise up against thee to be smitten before
thy face; they shall come out against thee one way, and
flee before thee seven ways. The Lord shall command
the blessing upon thee in thy store-houses, and in all
that thou settest thine hand unto."2
"The man of sorrow and acquainted with grief"
must be crucified that the Divine Christ, the Son of
God, may manifest in Completion and sit forever at the
right hand of his Father, where he is lifted up and
shines as the Spiritual Sun in the divine world, draw-
ing all men unto him. "Weeping may endure for a
night but joy cometh in the morning." (Psaims,
xxx, 5.)
The subject of this volume will be found completed in its
sequel, The Key of Destiny, Curtiss.
I Dsut.rosom'g. xxviii. 3.
A
A, the lungs as, 69; meaning of, 68.
Aaron, symbology of, 333.
Ab, month of, 320.
Abram and Saral, 355.
Abraham and Sarah, 187.
Abyss, the great, 27, 263.
Acheron, river, 150.
Adam, names animals, 172; number of,
eddition, occult, 135.
Adonal, 359.
adultery, 282.
Agathodaimon, 31.
Age of Fable, quoted, 227, 253.
Age, the Iron, 70, 272.
ages of man, 150.
Agiaea, 319.
Agrippa, Henry Cornelius, quoted, 237,
Amos, of Japan, 20.
Akerne, Zeroana, 29.
alcohol, use by mediums, 53.
Alcyone, 270.
Aldebaran, eye of Taurus, 69. 137,
211-15.
Alecto, 319.
Aleph Chapter 7; Bateleur, 67; Breath
of Life, 69; Cam and Abel, 69; letter
A, 68; man, 70; Mciii and Shin, 119;
ox Taurus, 69.
Alpha, 70, 163.
Alwen, and Kilhweh, 321.
Amos. quoted, Ix.
amulet, 317.
Anafi, Mercury, 222.
Ancient of Days, The, quoted, 230, 247,
343.
Angels, of the 7 Churches, 221.2.
Anguinum, the Druid, 40.
animals, 4 sacred, 143; 3 symbolic, 106.
Antares, 137.
Antaslcarana, 196, 263.
Anteros, 40.
Antigonus, 182.
ants, and Psyche, 202.
Anubis 361-2.
Anupajaka, 55.
ape, symbol of the, 322.
Apollo, 225.7.
Apolloniva of Tyana, 309.
Apostles, the 4, 146.
Apuleius, 347.
Aquarius, 137, 348.
Ariadne, thread of, 252.
Aries, 186-7-8.
Aristotle, method of, 341, quoted, 342.
Armageddon, 262.
Armies, Celestial, 274.
arrow, symbol of the, 91; of Zaui,
277.8.
INDEX
Aseshra, Egyptian, 209.
astr". body, 256; cord, 257.
astronomy, recent discoveries, 104, 272,
Atlanteans, 274.
Atma, 266.
atom, not matter, 17.
Atonement, the vicarious, 263.
Atro s, 319.
AU, 130-2.
aura, Chapter 4; as circle, 59; crests
our, 363; doors broken ophn. 53;
have all in, 364; Principles in, 266.
Avatar, 56; 357-8.
axis. 1 the, 65.
B
B, meaning of, 90.
balance beam, man the, 173; number of,
286; of 8, 302.
Balzac, quoted, 17, 23.
Banner of Love, 329-30.
Baphomet, goat, 344.
Baptist, John the, 111.
basket, the inexhaustible, 321.
battle, the great, 262.
Bear, the Great, 27 1-2.
Beast, worship of the, 22.
Beasts, the 4, 145-6-9.
Beauty, number of, 342.
bees, from Venus. 202.
Bet, Temple of, 37.
Belshazzar, vision of, 174.
belt Druid, 322; power, 289; symbol
36.
Belus, 285.
Benhadad, 314.
Beth, 90.
Bible, an occult book, 353.
Binah, liberty 206.
Binary, the, s.
Bird, of Life, 43, 285' beatride the,
328-9; nesting place o#, 328; Vermil-
lion, 254.
birth, in weeks, 234-3.
black, esoteric use of, 209; 344,
Blavatsky Mme. and number 7, 239.
blessed, sfialt thou be, 375.
blessing, shadow of the, 344.
blind, leaders of the, 374,
blood, and Mars, 302.
boasting, 312.
body, astral, 231, 256; mental, 231;
desire, 258; physical, 231, necessary,
266, 371: renewed, 235; 1st Princi-
pie, 253; construction, 231.
Book, the Great, 244, seals of, 245-6;
Nature a, 370-1.2.
Book of Adam 75.
Book of the ii ead, quoted, 47, 57, 221,
293.
Book of Enoek, quoted 143-4, 202. 267.
Book of Hermes, 75, 2l, 347.
Book of Keys, 347.
Book of the Law, 97.
Book of Life, 48.
Brahmans, 154.
Bread of Life 153.
Breath of LiIe, 69, 186; number of.
287; number 8 as, 294; prana the,
257.
Briareus, 100 handed, 343.
Bride, the, 339; of the Church, 208.
Bridegroom, the, 330.
bridge, 196, 263-4.
Bruno, Giordano, burned, 17.
Buddhl, 231, 265.
Bushmen, of Australia, 20.
C
Caduceus, 80 222. 361.
calf, the goicfen, 94.
Calliope, 319.
Cancer, 296-7-8.
Candle, of Hermes, 307.
candlestick, symbol of, 240-3-7; 275.
Capricorn, 178.
Car Solar, 322.
ears, playing, Clubs, 79; Diamonds, 80;
Hesrts, 77; Spades, 78.
Carlyle, quoted, 170.
castes, of humanity, 154.
Castor and Pollux, 42.
Cat, symbol of, 45; tn-colored, 47;
use of, 46.
tattle, dumb, driven, 193.
Causal Soul, 55-6.
cells, in Grand Man, 303; change, 235.
Cenozoic Age, 369.
center, Siddbia, 329.
centers 7 sacred, 223.
chaff. being burned, 358.
Chaldeans, 600 year cycle of, 208.
Chariot, 7th card, 281.
Cherubim, 150, 339.
Chokma, 84; necessity, 206.
Christ, The, hour. 318; lo here Ii, lx,
Christ-child, the, 123; conceived, 318.
Christ-force, the, creative, 30; Creative
Ideation, 34; Great, 329; number of,
171; sex an expressIon, 34; Urge back
of evolution, 138; Urge to Manifest,
34.
Christ-principle, 265.
Christ-seed, 40-3- 226.
Chronus, 70, 161, 306.
Church, answer of the,
33-5, 274, 322.
ciphers, addition of, 357.
circle, symbol of. Chapters 2, 3 4;
Aby,s, Boundless Space, Deity, 1uime,
veil, 27; Chao, Waters of Great
Deep 26; boundless, 353; definition
of a, 29; digits in 45; Druid 36;
evolving in, 351; harden of Êden,
29, 362; no longer Chaos, 340; num-
Index-Continued
363; Druid,
her of, 323-4; number 6 and 209;
source, 30; squaring the, 150; \ljomb
of Nature, 30-9.
civilization. 4 stages of, 155.
clairaudience, 175
clairvoyance, 175.
clavicle, of Solomon, 75.
Clio, 228, 319.
Clotho, 319.
Clubs, 79; dimensions of, 325.
Cocytus, river, 150.
colors, of spectrum, 223.
columns, Jakin and Boa,, 98.
Comforter, number 3, 116.
Commandment, 1st, 71; 2nd, 92; 3rd,
130; 4th, 162; 5th, 191; 6th, 216;
7th, 282; 8th, 302; 9th, 335; 10th,
362.
Completion, attributes of, 368; number
of, 339; of earth, man, Super-man,
370.
condemnation, self, 336.
consciousness, center of Spiritual, 334;
7 states of, 231; Spiritual Self-, 260.
Constantine, monogram of, 76.
Conqueror, the 281, 296.
cord, the astral, 257.
I Corinthian,, quoted, 287,
II Corinihianj quoted, 196.
corn, 7 coloreð, 239.
Cosmos, number of the, 322, 342.
covenant, with Abram, 345-6.
cove; thou shalt not, 362.
creation, day. of, 136, 232, 353.4;
number of, 219.
crocodile 178.
Crook, hephcrd'a, 333.
cross, cosmic symbol, 85; cube un-
folded, 140, 197; EgyptIan, 138;
evolution from Tree, 32; forms of,
140, 197 in heaven,, 137; no man
on the, 138; not arbitrary, 137; per-
sonalIty on the, 318; of Pslenque.
139; sentences on the, 241, 318;
Solar, 99.
Crown of Glory, 351; 1 the, 342;
Triple, 97; with 12 points, 129.
Crozier, 79.
crucifixion, 99; allegory of, 263.
Cup, symbol of, 77; to Know, 77.
Cupid and Psyche 202.
curse of Eden, l7'.
cursing, 133.
Cycle of man, nature, Super-man, 307;
of life begins, 318.
Cycle of Necessity, 356, 362.
D
Daleth, 161.
Daniel, quoted, 37, 123, 174.
Dare, to. 78, 145, 335
day, the Lord',. 163-7.
Dsy,, of CreatIon, 6, 136, 232, 3534.
day, of week, 163, 238.
decad, 341.
decimal, esoteric, 21' meaning of, 275.
Deity, 4 letters of, 148.
denied, nothing. 338.
Deuteronomy, quoted. 369, 375.
destiny, 263.
Devachan, 43.
Devas, 311.
development, "sitting for" 53.
Devil, 283.
Dhyanis, 6th Group of. 204.
Diamonds, 80.
dice, origin of, 238.
digits, higher cycle of. 327; In circle,
45.
Disraeli, quoted, 163.
divorce, do not hurry, 1134.
Do, to, 79, 145.
doctrine, meaning of, 103.
Doctrine, Tks Secret, see Secret Doc.
trine.
Dog, Herm.Anubis, 106.
dogs, the 9, 321.
Dot, above marriage, 109; the over-
shadowing. 107.
Dot in Circle, Chapter 5; as Sun,
Jacob, Jesus, 57; Causal Soul, 55;
end of axis, 59; in triangles. 250;
meaning of 58.
Dove, the feavenly, 43, 60 328;
meaning of. 275; of Orion, 27.
doves, Druid, 322.
Dragon. Polar, 271.
dream, of Pharaoh, 240.
duality, 82.
Dweller on the Threshold, 289; storks
of, 337.
E
Eagle, Scorpio, 129 161.
ear, meaning of, 35.
ears, asses', 227.
Ecclesiastes, quoted, 331,
echinus fossil egg. 33.
Eden, arden of. 29 30; curse of. 177;
Icturn to, 284 ewe,, of, 149; rule
it, 334.
Ego, is flame, 263.
egg, symbol of, Chapter 3; Easter,
Eros, 33; golden, 43-4; of Night, 33;
hatching of, 234, 351; individualiza.
tion, 87; Ra in, 57; serpent's 33;
symbology, 43-4.
Egypt, Israel and, ai; symbol of. 223,
8, number, Chapter 32, 285; sinister,
286; Splendor, 342.
8th card, 3o1; letter, 296.
So, number, 353.
El Cbai, 307, 328
Elect of the 9, 321.
electricity, Cosmic, 330; result of, zz6.
elemental,, signature of the, 304.
Elements, The, quoted, 249.
Floah Va-Daath, 207.
Elohim, the 7, 219.
embryo, batching the, 234,.
Index-Continued
Emperor, The, 161.
Empress, The, 129.
enchanter, number of the, 321.
Eacyclopedaa Britannica, quoted, 151,
272.
Enocli, Book of, quoted, 143-4; 202;
229; 267.
Eozoic, age, 369.
Ephesians, quoted, 311.
equality of men, 154.
equator, 86.
Erato, 319.
eras, geologic, 369.
Eros, 40-1.
esotericism, symbol of, 191.
eugenics, 111.
Euphrates. river, 149, 150.
Euphroayne, 319.
Europa, myth of, 211.
Euterpe, 319.
Eve, from Adam, 99.
evil, created by man, 34; from North,
143.
evolution, law of, 95; number of, 285.
Exodus, quoted, 130, 191.9, 216, 282,
302 335.
experiences, expressions of law, xiii.
eye, light of, 212; meaning of, 35;
needle's, 295; of Taurus, 211.
eyes, center between, 328.
F
famine, day, of, ix, xl.
fasting, cycles of, 153.
fatality 2,, 206.
Fates, mother of the, 41, the 3. 319.
Father.principle, 192; 264.
feather symbol of, 37 293, 322.
field o humanity, 29.
50, number, 353.
finger, the Saturn, 316.
fingers, of man, 171.2; raised, 344,
Fire-breath 176.
Fire Signa', 274.
fires, the 49, 223; 255.
Fish, the Southern, 137.
5, number, Chapter 18; balance, 173;
Host, 173; humanity, 160; letter He,
186; rules marriage, 173; Strength,
342.
Fohat, 251; hisses, 330.
Fomalhaut, 137.
food, must supply own, 364.
Force, Great Creative, 282-3.
forests, sitting in dark, 368.
40, number, 353.
Foundation, number of. 342.
4, number, Chapters, 15, 16; ages of
man, 150; castes of humanity, 154;
fertile, 135' geometrically 136; Key
Keeper, 14; letter, of beity, 148;
mean between 1 and 7, 140; Mercy,
342; physical plane, 135; stages of
civilization, 155; watches, 318; watch
hours, 150.
Four Wiisd.,, 2'ks, quoted, 144.
Fragment, of a Faith Forgotten,
quoted 27 197-8; 289.
free, to fie, ios.
furnace, fiery, 121, 294.
C
Gabriel 144; the moon, 222.
Galahail, Sir, 78.
gambling, numbers In 22.
gate, ltst, 336; 9th, 3b, narrow, 292.
gates, the 7, 248.
GeminI, 42, 84, 277.9.
teneration, to regeneration, 31.
Geaeii, quoted, 172, 220, 339; 345.
Genii. Au.
Gentiles, symbol of, 123.
Geometer, the Great, 25.
geometry, of manifestatIon, 24.
testation, number of. 232.
Gihon, river, 149 150.
Gimel, letter, 12
girdle, 269.
globe, winged, 285.
Gnomes, 204.
gpat, 106.
(,od, a cIrcle, 26; jealous, 94; slgna-
ture of xiii.
Graces, the 3 319.
Grail, the Ho'y, 78.
Great Book, The, quoted, 245-6; 270.
Great White Throne, The, quoted, 145.
Greeks, educational system, 23.
grow u flower, 363.
guiltfess, 133.
11
H, Eve, householder, womb, 346.
Hafl of Learning, 50.
halo 330.
band, of God, 344; Pope'., 344; right,
298; sows, 343.
bands, of Juggler, 81.
harp, of saint., 226.
hate, the Lord 94.
He, 196- the nd, 351.
Heart, piritual, 265; of Grand Man,
Heart, 80.
beat, of bell, 117; result of, 166.
heavens, the 7, 247.
Helen, of Troy, 42.
Relies, 253.
hell, burnings of, 343; heat of, 117.
Hermes, Book of, 291, 347; Candle,
Lamp of, 307.
Hermit, 9th card, 333.
Heth, 296.
Hiddekel. river, 149.50.
HierarchIes, 221; 10 Orders of. 348.
Higher Self, $5.6; composed of, 262.3;
diagram of, 109.
Hippocrates, on birth, 234.
hive, symbol of, 91.
Index-Continued
Holy Ghost, magnetic force, 129; uI
against, $3.
honey, in lion, 331.
horn, symbol of, 246.
horse,, meaning of, 285; of the pun,
248, 253.
Horus, 3rd card, 129.
Host, the, 80.
Hottentots, 271.
hour, 6th, 318; 9th, 311.18; 11th, 318.
humility, exaggerated, 336.
Hyades, 211, 267, 271.
I
1, a. symbol, 71.
1, the little, 64.
I am, doctrine of the, xl,
image, graven1 92.
Immortality. in the flesh, 169; Ego
and, 262.
incarnations, major and minor, 357.
Indian tepees, 239.
Indiviðualmty, 263.
Initiate Man thee 340; protector, serp-
ent, 327, 334; virtues of an 340.
Initiation, all Ideas of, 3i3- allego-
ries of, 315; cycle of, 323; tee, 291;
Great, 336; Hall of, 337 in life,
313; major and minor, 305 number
of, 306. 327; qualities br, 321;
sacredness of, 312; Star of, 334,
363; 2 great tasks, 328.
Initiator, Saturn as the, 165.
Inspiration, via bram 372.
Intellect1 position of, 260.
Invisibility, 316.
Ireneus, quoted, 27.
Iron 4je. The, quoted, 302; 70, 272.
Iron, of Mar,, 301.
Isaac, 187.
Isaiah quoted, 297.
Isis Unveiled, quoted, 18,
Island, the Dove, 275.
Israel, ehildre of. 151.
3
Jacob, and sons, 57.
Jakmn and Boas, 57,
Jarvis Letters, The, quoted, 33.4.5.6.7,
44-8; 58; letter A, 68; belt, 269; eight,
285-6' letter B, 91; number 9, 322;
orb, 61; stars. 275; ten, 341; Trin-
ity, 103; two, 84.
Jehovah word for 358.
Jesus, In Egypt, 122; name of, 198.
Jews, 48.
lob quoted, 174-9; 219; 221; 267;
23-8- 368.
John. s.. quoted, 86, 156; the Eagle,
joy, t completIon, 368; not killed, 373;
to the world, 374.
Judges, quoted, 331.
Juggler, The, Cbsntpr 8. 75.
31, 61, 205.
lupiter, symbol of, 222; ZachariCl, 222.
Justice, attained, 297; 8th card, 301.
K
Kaboia of Numbers, quoted 25.
lCabbalah Unveiled, quoted, 61.2, 70,
82, 102-7; 120.
Kahn, the Great, 321.
Kalahansa. 43
Kali Yuga, 70.
kama, animal soul, 259.
Karma, burnings of, 343; I.ord of,
101, 143-5-6; 150, 313, wheel of, 362.
Kirttikeya, 274.
Kerubim, 359.
Kether, reason 206.
key, symbol ol, 75; Keeper, 148,
keys, 97; golden, 223, 248.
Kilhweh and Alwen, 321.
kill, only the form, 217; reputatIon,
King Arthur, 321.
King Desire, 321.
I Kings, quoted, 314.
lcnighthood, 321.
Know, to, cup, 77, 145; Thyself, 336.
Kshatrlyas, 154.
Kundalini, power, 182, 328.
L
Lachesis 319.
Lamb, Song of the, 226; horns of the,
245.
Lamp of Hermes, 307; of Hermit, 333.
Land, the Promised, 151.
Lantern, of Hermit, 333.
Law, the periodic, 232; 7 nianifesta.
tiona of the, 230.
Feds, and swan, 42.
Leo, heart of, 137- St. MarIe as, 147;
Teth and, 327,336.
lepers, the 10, 325.
letter Hebrew, Aleph, 68- Beth, 90;
Dafeth, 161; Gimel, 12 He, 186,
Van, 211; Zain, 277; heth, 297;
Teth, 327; Yod, 356.
Letters from the Teacher, quoted, 35,
114.
letters, awaken potencies, 67; and
numbers, 131-2; Hebrew, 67; Mother,
67; script, 64.
IÅvi, Eliphas experiences of 183.
Livi, Unpublished Letters 0/ Eisphas,
quoted, 69, 91, 200.
levitation, 179.
Leviticus, quoted, 174.
Life, symbol of, 76; cycle begins, 318;
Fountain of, 344; 3 periods of man's,
236.
Ufe-prineiple, interfered with, 258;
praxis, 257.
Life, Tree of, 29.
J.ight, result of the, 116.
lingam, 281.
Index-Continued
link, between man and woman, 213;
of iron, 216; Vsu a, 212.
lion, must tame the, 330; symbol of,
46, 269; with sword, 361.
liver, the seat of, 259.
Lives, the Fiery. 235-6.
locusts, a plague of, 48.
Lodge, a Mason's, 238.
Logos, the, 102.
Love, Banner of, 329.
Lovers, the 215.
Lucifer 32i
Luke, t., quoted, 91; as Taurus, 147;
lepers. 352.
lyre, of' Apollo, 225.
M
M, meaning of, 119.
Macbeth, quoted, 320.
Macroprosopus, 207.
magic, number of, 248. 320; of lyre,
226; reality of, 52.
magnetism, number 3 is, 116.
Maharajas, the 4, 143.
maid-servant, simile of, 365-6.
Makara, 178-9.
Malkuth, 359.
Man, the Grand, 154; cells in, 303;
Centers in, 222; heart of, 327; In-
itiate, 340; 7 fold, 231.
man, offices of, 176; masculine Ray,
88; work of, 99.
Mantle, of discretion. 334; Hermit,
333; Nature, 308.
M'arcosians, number symbolism of, 27,
288.
marriage diagram of, 108-9-10; diver-
gent, 112; 5 rules, 173; Soul 84.
Mars, and blood, 302; Lain1,, 226;
Pleiades, 273. metal of, 301; Raphael.
222; symbol of 222; force of. 125.
Masons, 321-2; Lodge, 238; and 10.
352.
Masteri, feminine, 273; why cannot
help, 365.
mathematics, of sex, 365; exact scice,
17.
Matrona, 359,
Matthew, St., quoted, ix, 132, 141, 212,
313.
Matthew. St., Aquarius, Man from the
East, 146.
May-pole, symbol of, 58.
Mazzaroth, 273.
Meaning of the Cross, The, quoted,
138, 241.
Mediator, man the. 172, 329.
Megaera, 319.
Melcbizedek, 221.
Melpomene, 319.
Mental Foundation, The, quoted, 141.
Mercury Anail, 222; number of, 172;
symboi, 222, 361.
Mercy, number of, 342.
Mesozoic, age, 369.
Index-Continued
Novennalia 319.
number, of Infinite Nature, 325; evo-
lution, 285; mystery, silence, 309; 9,
306; perfection, 236; 7, 219.
numbers, antiquity of, 20; Arabs. 18;
birth, 234; Christos. 22; divine reali-
ties. 18; equality, framework, 23;
Kabelistic meanings, 342; and let-
ters, 131; not arbitrary, 25; odd,
even, 61-2; perversion of, 22; re-
vealed, 19; Soul of things, 25; spiral
movement, 324;
nut, ahell and kernel, 101,
0
0, meaning of, 35, 285, 322.
Oak, God, 285.
oct. octave, 285-6.
Om, 132.
Omega, 70 163, 285.
Omicron, 85.
1, number, Chapter 6; Adam Kadmon,
63; Atma, axis, 65; symbol of Cosmic
Ideation, individuality, Indivisibilit
primordial substance, unity, 6
Crown, 342; descent of Light. 1 Life.
62; dignity rulership, selihood, self.
reliance, kod, Wand, Path 65;
gardener, 363; 7 dImensions of, 335.
I Life, the, 63.
oneness, meaning of, 363.
Ophites, 33.
opposites, pairs of, 83.
orange, simile of, 286.
orb, orbit, 36L
Oriflel, Saturn 222.
Orion, myth of, 268.
Orpheus, myth of 225.
O,tns and Nile, 104,
Ovid quoted, 267.
ox, Taurus, 69.
P
Paleozoic, age, 369.
Pan, pipes of, 227.
pantheism, not, 246.
Faacsl, quoted, 26.
Path, made straight, 111-IF 7th, 248;
straight and narrow, 59, 64-6.
Paths, the 2, 215.
Paul, St., quoted, 279, 294.
pentacle, flaming, sed, 182.
Pentacles Keep Silent, 80.
Perfect Vizy. The, quoted, 291.
personality, boat of the, 28; Instru
ment. 262.3. 313; left behind, 293;
opportunities of the, 303.
I Peter, quoted, 141.
Pbaethon, 253, 348.
Phannel, 144.
Pharaoh, Desire. 321; dream of, 240,
phenomena, psychIc, 153.
Phiegethon. river, 150.
Phoebu,. 348.
Michael. 144, the Sun. 222.
Mg522270
Mighti Living One, The, 307, 328.
Milton, quoted, 322.
Minatour, the, 252.
Mlnas, 252.
Mind, Divine, 231, 260.1.2.3 Rational.
260.1; peat of, 265; sulconacious,
259.
missionaries, Druid, 275-6.
Mnemosyne, 319.
Modern Astrology, quoted, 34-S.
Monad, of Pythagoras, 62.
Mongolian, doorkeeper dream of, 290.
Mark, St., as Leo, 147.
moon, Gabriel 222; master of 233;
metal of 31k; quarters of, 1444 sym-
bol of, 222,
mother, Great, 301; ides, 97; principle,
mothrs, the 3, 119.
Mount of Ascension, 295.
Mount of Crucifixion, 295.
ILundl, Anima, 341.
Muses, the, 319.
Mysteries, EleusinIan, 319.
m,stery, number of, 309.
Mystic Christ, The, quoted, 195.
Mystic Thessisras, quoted, 150, 238,
Mystic Oek, The, quoted, 58.
Music, effect of, 24. desIgns. 25; 9 and
Mythtoy of the Arya's Naaior,,
quoted, 39.
N
N,amaa, 240.
Nags, Initiate a, 327.
days,
name, ineffable, 131 of week
238; to utter a, 136.
N.tural Cer.esi,, quoted, 138.
Nature, Infinite, 325.
Neptune. horses of. 150.
Neschamah, Nepheech, 120.
Neuberger, Albert, table of, 326.
Neuvaines, 319.
New Jerusalem, 142. 161.
Nichomachu,, quoted, 205.
Nile 103.
Nimlms, 330.
9, number, 306; amulet, 316; dlmen.
sions of cube, 325; Elect of the, 321;
enchanter, 321- Foundation, 342;
hour, 311; knoefcs, 321; master digit,
322; plaguci. 316; sacred, 309; table
of, 324.6; Tartar,, 321; witches,
320.
90. number, 355.
9th, hour, 311; month, 320.
Nlobe, 274.
Nirmanakaya. 117; body, 176.
Noah, 121, 240.
noon, 309; service, 310.
notes. 7 musicaL 223.
PhotografMng the Invisibfr, quoted,
Phyla'cteries, 320.
Perfection, number of, 236; Urge to.
196.
pig, the enchanted, 321.
pineal gland, 224, 265.
Pisces, 348.
Pison, river, 149.
Plan, the Grand, 104, 303.
planets, 7 sacred. 222.9; Souls tra-
verse, 120.
Plato, 317' method of, 341.
Pleiades, biapter 29. 267; center of
universe 70, 211, 271; cycles, 273;
island oI, 275; bind influences, 273-6;
in sprIng, 270; Mar. and, 274; names
of, 271.
plexus, solar, 239.
Plotinus, on 10, 344.
plowshares and pruninghooks, 297.
Pluto, 203.
Polarity, Law of, 230; diagram of.
348-50.
Pope, Gregory, 138; 5th card, 191.
portals, the 7, 184, 248.
power, 1., 206.
prana, 224, 257.
prayer, efficacy of, 320.
Priestess, Eigh, 97; of home, 118;
Pythian. 118.
Principles, of Man, Atma, 266; Buddhi.
86, 196, 255; 2nd, astral, 256; 3rd,
prana, 257; 4th desire, 258' 5th,
mind, 260; 6th, 'the Christ, 26f'; 7th.
Divine, 266.
prison, Soul In, 304.
procreation, not only, 35.
Prophet1 Priest, King, 176.
Proserpine, 203.
Proverbs, quoted, 174, 278, 301.
Psalms, quoted, 86, 278, 295, 368, 375.
Psyche and Cupid, 202.
psychometry. 175.
purgatory, 320.
Purification, 3'eaat of, 319.
pyramids, 274.
Pythagoras, quoted, 18, 237.
0
Q and que, meaning of, 3L
guarternary, the, 341.2.
Queen Theodolinde, 138.
R
Race, Aryan, Atlantean, Hyperborean,
Lemurian, the 7 great. 230.
Races, elements in the, 233.
radium, center, 266,
Ram, of Aries, 187.
Raphael, 144; Mars, 222.
Psuch, 120.
Rays, the 7 color, 220.1, 241.
Realms of the Astral, quoted, 247.
Inde.r-Continued
Reaper, Saturn the, 291.
rebirth, of planets, 220.
Records, Akashic, 95.
Redeemer, man must be a, 108-9; 264.
Redemption, Law of, 141.
reduction, occult, 135.
Regents, the 4, 143.6.
Regulus, 137.
Relsgion of the Aacssnt Cdt.,, quoted,
Relilion of the Sikh.,. quoted, 180.
Religion, the Wisdom, accumulation of,
xii.
religion, not a sacrifice, 372.
Revelation, of St. John, quoted, 77,
106, 122.3, 205, 221 241-2-4, 351.
Riley, Life of James Farmer), quoted,
Rinj Pass Not, Chapter 4, for Indi-
vidual, 52.
Rishis, names of the, 271; the 7 great,
211; wives of the, 273.
Rivers, of Eden, 149; of nether world,
150.
Rivers of Life and Death, quoted, 149,
Robe, of my strength, 175; of Initia-
tiOn, 176, 307.
Rock of Ages, the, 141.
Rod Aaron's, 333; of iron, 130, 248-9;
of' power, 65 191; and Staff, 295.
Romans, quoted, 216.
roots, life on, 368.
rope, symbol of a, 322.
Rose, The hfystic, 307, 359.
roses, the 9, 321.
Rota, tarot, 75, 361.
S
Sabbath day, 163-8-9.
Sacrifice, Stone of, 140.
Saints, Banner over the, 329; the
144,000, 323.
salamander., 204.
Samael, Venus, 222.
Samaria, meaning of, 353.
Samson, and honey, 331.
sand, like grain of, 350,
Sanskrit Tests, quoted, 39.
sardonyx, StOne, 317.
Sarah, 187.
Sarai, 345.
Satan. Saturn, 291, 322.
satisfaction, the only, 108.
Saturday, 163-8-9.
Saturn, 165-8; finger, 316; number of,
291, 306; Orifiel, 222; questions of,
273; Satan, 291, 322; sinister, 209;
Time, 236.
Savior, name of the, 198.
scarabeus, 43.
Scepter, symbol of, 76-9; Conqueror's,
281- of Empress, 129; of Venus, 161;
of fain, 277,
Scoreio, Eagle, 129; extended arms,
253, 348; heart of, 137; St. John u,
147.
Sculptor, the Muter, 340.
Sea, the Red, 321.
Seal of Solomon, 113, 251. 324.
seasons, the 4, 145-6.
Secret Doctrine, The, quoted, 174-9,
20.1.3-5-7-9, 32-3-9, 40-1-2-3-4-5-9, 54-
5, 70, 131-9, 143, 170-8, 202, 219,
221.4.6, 231.3-4-7-9, 241-8-9, 251-5.
262-3, 271-3.4, 316, 323, 330-9, 341-5-
7-8, 352-3.
Senary, the, 249.
SeDhirS, 1st, 62; 2nd, 84; 3rd, 120,
*01; 6th, 207; 7th, 251; 9th, 307;
10th, 348, 359.
SeI,her YstziraJi quoted xlii, 62, 102,
115-9, 186, iil.19, 147, 277, 297,
306, 327, 339, 345, 356.
serpent, symbol of, Cbsçiter 2 AU Wis-
dom, Brazen, Creative dause, 32;
Druid symbol, 33; 322; horned, 33'
Immortality, 30; power, 328;
headed, 253; stone, 33; swallowing
tail. 306; Teth, 327; why used, 31-2,
327; Zagrens, 32.
7, number, Chapter 24, 219; among
Egyptians, 234; aspects of the Law,
230; CreatIon GestatIon, 219 229;
divisions of the body, 229; Itebrew
word for. 236; In Bible, 240-1' In
chemistry, 233' manIfestation, !229;
number 219; I'erfcction, 219; plan.
eta, 22S; Pleladea and, 273; priests,
239; sacred to Clio, 228; veils, 99;
Victory. 342.
7. Churches, The, quoted, 242.
70, number, 353.
sex, in Soul, 349.
sex-force adulteration of, 282-3' factor
In evoiution, 30; Key to the Law of.
87; man's 1.erversion of, 34; maths-
matical basis of. 84, 173; spiritual
nature of, 32.4-5; nsa of, 34.
Sham, 11am and Japheth, 121.
Shepherd's Crook, 79.
Shield of David, 205.
sickness, a process of, 258.
Siddhis center, 329.
signs, cardinal, 143-8; only 10, 348.
Sikha, 180.
Silence, must enter the, 168; number
of the, 309, 312; Temple of, 310-11.
Silent, to Keep, 80, 145.
silver, 317.
sin, cause of. 183.
Sirius, dog, 268-9.
Slsyphua, 271.
Sly.. 206.
6, days of labor, 162-3; animatIng
Principle, 197' among Gnostic.. 197:
Beauty, 342; bweiiing of the Great,
IndexContinued
-
209' Great Work, Labor, Toll 199'
In reek and LatIn, 212; numf,er o
Christ-force, Incompleteness, Unrest,
Urge to Perfection, 195; number of
Nature, 205.
Sixth Angel, The, quoted, 150, 205.
6th, sub-race, 198.
60, number, 353.
Soisg of Solomon, quoted, 330.
songs, vibrations of, 86.
Soarca of Measures The, quoted, 19.
soul, the animal, 25-9.
Soul, breaths, 302; csusaI 55-6; dls,
gram of, 264; a reservoir, 349; tha
Spiritual, 265-6.
Spades, 78.
speech, power f 186, 288.
sphere, the 8th, 188.9.
spheres, concentric, 49; music of the
224, 319,
Sphinx, 361.
sphinxes, 281.
spirals, of evolutIon, 105.
Spirits, the 7, 242.
Splendor, number of, 342.
square, aspect, 137' circumscrIbed, 142;
generated by, ib; magic, 325; ratIo
to diagonal, 86
SRI 346,
Staf#, of HermIt, 333; PatrIarchs, 77;
Wisdom, 79, 307,
star, dark, 288' 5 poInted, l8l mean-
ing of, 275; i'ole 149, of Initiation,
334, 364; of Itlatonic Phiosoph
281; 7 poInted, 249; 6 pointed, 20 -
stars, double system of, 272; form
cosmic cross, 137; streams of, 104;
the 7, 246.
steal, thou shalt not, 302.
steam, simile of escaping, 258.
steel, turning Iron into, 301.
Stone, the Poundation, 137; completed,
258' a Soul choice, 141, 161, 201;
of ijatnre, 369 Philosopher's. 281
serpent's, 33; the Two Tables of
362.
streak, the prImitive, 65, 340.
Styx, the river, 150.
subconscious mImi, 259, 260-1.
subtil and subtle, 31.
Sudrsa, 154.
suffering, not meritorIous, 371.
sun, horses of the, 248 253' Michael,
222; symbol of the, å22, 122.
Sunday, 164.
supply, In aurs, 365.
system, decimal, 21; primitIve with að
vanced, 20.
Swan, 42-3.
Swastika, 138.
Sword, of JustIce 302; OrIon's, 269'
symbol of the, 7$; tabs, 277.
Sylphs, the, 204.
symbols, perversion of, 21.
T
talismans, 316.17.
Talleth, 320.
tap-root, 1 the, 65.
Tarot, The, quoted, xiv, 82.
Tarot, cards, lit, Juggler, 75; 2nd,
Priestess, 97; 3rd, Empress, 129; 4th,
Emperor, 161; 5th, Pope, 191; 6th,
Lovers, 215; 7th, Chariot, 281; 8th,
Justice, 301; 9th, Hermit, 333; 10th,
Wheel of Life, 361.
Tartan, 321.
Tau, Egyptian, 138-9.
Taurus, sign, Aleph, 69; decans of,
252; ye of, 137, 211; Minatour and.
252; ruled by, 69; St. Luke and,
147; 6th card, 215; symbolizes, 69;
thunder God, 275; unfortunate, 212.
teachers, disappointment with,
Temple, meaning of, 322; of Isis, 98.
tempter, personal, 260.
10, number, Chapter 37, 339; among
Egyptians, 347; as Avatar, 357.8;
contains whole evolution, 21; mean-
ing of, 341; innuber of Completion,
341; Coamo, Xingdom, Uni-
verse, 21; Sun, 342; phallic, 345;
Light, 353; reckoning by, 21; Wheel,
361; Yod, 345.
tepees, Indian, 239.
Tennyson, quoted, 78.
Terpsichore, 319.
tests, do not invoke, 294; of Initiation,
314-15.
Teth, a roof, 328-9; letter, 327.
Tetraktys, the, 345.
Thalia, 319.
Thebes, 7 gates of, 239.
Theinis, 41.
Theseus, 252.
30, number, 353.
Thor, hammer of, 139.
thought-forms, 284.
3, number, Chapter 11, 103; Com-
forter, Revealer, 116; Deity, mean-
ing of, Mystery of Life, Time, Di.
vine Love, 106; Trinity, 103; Flame,
Word, 115; Understanding, 342.
35i, number, 122.
Three Days in She Tomb, quoted, 121.
throne, and saints, 226; Great White,
242; of Deity, 250.
Tien, as egg, 40.
Tiara, 97.
Tiger, the White, 254.
Time, number of, 285.
Tipherith, 207.
Tisiphone, 319.
Tmolus, 227.
tongue the, 298.
Towers, Round of Ireland, 37.
Transcer4ental Magic, quoted, 75-7,
115, 145.8.9, 181, 195, 206, 239, 248,
308.9.
IndexContinued
triangle, 102.6; Divine, 260; Dot in,
250; interlaced, 205-8; reflected, 135,
209.
Trinity, 102; ICabalistic, 120, 132; in
star systems, 104; Table of. 136.
the Divine, 206.
tniplicities, astrological, 105-6.
tripod, use of, 113.
Tnismegistus, Lamp of, 308.
trunk, symbol of boy's, 51.
Truth, shutting eyes to, 337.
12, number; God theogony, origin of
the inch. 21.
20, number, 353.
2, number, Chapter 9, 82; Adam and
Eve, 84; Audacity, Duality, Polar-
ity, Separation. 82; Binary, Buddhi,
86; Contrasts, marriage, pairs of op-
posites, 83; meaning of, 84, 103; ra-
diance, 100; Wisdom, 342.
Typhon, 271, 362.
U
Uaderaoding, number of, 342.
Undines, the, 204.
Unity, not uniformity, 63.
Unpublished Letters of Eliphes Levi,
quoted, 69, 91, 200.
unrest, days of, ix.
Urania, 319.
Urge to Perfection, 196.
Urini and Thummim, 281.
V
Vaishyas, 154.
Vau, a link, 212; an eye, 211; symbol
of, 216.
Veil, of Isis, 99; of Protection, 329,
330; rent, 318.
Venus, 41; bees from, 202; dual planet.
215; rules Taurus, 69; Samael, 222;
Scepter of, 161; symbol of, 222, 361;
Urania, 130.
Victory, number of, 342; of 7, 278.
vina, the Hindu, 224-5.
Vishnu, sign of, 205; wife of, 346.
virtues, the 7, 222.
Voice, Army of the, 24, 131-3.
voice, tones of the, 228.
Voice of Isis, The, quoted, 25.7; 30, 49,
50-2.3, 60-1.3-7, 71-2, 83.4, 98-9, 165,
217, 220-3, 230. 241.2-6. 260, 278,
306.8, 310.14. 322, 356, 362.
Voice of the Silence, The, quoted, 184.
223, 236, 279, 285.7, 301, 313, 328.
334, 368.
w
Wall, form a guardian, 341.
Vand, of Moses, 180; the magic, 6'.
281. 333; to Do, 79, 80.
Warrior, the Black, 254.
watches, of night, 318.
Weapon, 296; lay down, 331.
wealth, acquiring vs. creating, 22.
Wescott, quoted, 173, 239.
Wheel, of Karma, 362; of the Law,
287; of Life, 361.
wheels, 8 spoked, 322.
Whipple, Edward, quoted, 170.
whiskey, use by mediums, 53.
wilderness, 40 days in, 152; 40 years
in, 151.
Will, the, 206.
wind, Breath of Spirit, 28.
window, He a, 187.
Winds, the 4, 143-4-5.6.
Wisdom, number of, 342; 9th letter,
331; Serpent of, 327; 7 Dragons of,
254.
witness, bearing false, 335.
witnesses, the 2, 106.
woman, a chattel, 97; clothed with sun,
122.3; feminine Ray, 88; functions
of, 233; mission of 100; Scarlet, 77;
woman's place, 983.
IndexContinued
womb, double, 345; II is a, 346; nulfl-
beT of, 196.
Word, the, 131; a light, 333; everY
idle, 132; invokes a potency, 132.
words, S sacred, 175; judged by our,
313.
World-chain, 229.
Y
Yang and Yin, 61.
year, the sidereal, 323.
Yod, meaning of, 356; number of, 345.
Yod.He.Vau-He, 358.
z
Zacliariel, Jupiter, 222.
Zain, Chapter 30, 277.
Zama, zama, 175.
zero, absolute, 115; a circle, 353.
zodiac, like switchboard, 67; 10 signs
in, 347.
Zohar. The, quoted, 55; Light, 351.
APPENDIX
Prayers of The Order of Christioii Mystics.
PRAUR TOR LIGHT
0 Christ! Light Thou within my heart
The Flame of Divine Love and Wisdom,
That I may dwell forever in the radiance of Thy countenance
And rest in the Light of Thy smile!
MORNING PRAYER
I have within me the power of the Christ!
I can conquer all that comes to me today!
I am strong enough to bear every trial
And accept every joy
And to say
Thy will be done!
HZ.AZING PRAYER
O thou loving and helpful Master Jesus!
Thou who gayest to Thy disciples power to heal the sick!
We, recognizing Thee, and realizing Thy divine Presence
with us,
Ask Thee to lay Thy hands (powers) upon us in healing Love.
Cleanse US from all OUR sins, and by the divine power of
Omnipotent Life,
Drive out the atoms of inharmony and disease, and
Fill our bodies full to overflowing with Life and Love and
Purity.
PRAYER or PROTECTION
O Christ! Surround and fill me and Thy Order with the
Flame of Divine Love and Wisdom.
That it may purify, illumine and guide us in all things.
May its Spiritual Fire form a rampart of Living Flame around
me and Thy Order,
To protect us from all harm.
May it radiate to every heart, consuming all evil and intensi.
fying all good.
In the name of the Living Christ! Amen.
APPENDIX (Con&iniid)
t'RAYER OP DEMONSTRATION
I am a child of the Living God
I have within me the all-creating power of the Christ I
It radiates from me and blesses all I contact.
It is my Health, my Strength, my Courage,
My Patience, my Peace, my Poise,
My Power, my Wisdom, my Understanding,
My Joy, my Inspiration, and my Abundant Supply.
Unto this great Power I entrust all my problems,
Knowing they will be solved in Love and Justice.
(Mention all problems connected with your worldly Thrs,
visualize each and conclude with the following words')
0 Lord Christ? I have laid upon Thy altar all my went
and desires.
I know Thy Love, Thy Wisdom, Thy Power and Thy G -
ciousness.
In Thee I peacefully rest, knowing that all is well.
For Thy will is my will. Amen.
Pa&su TO THE DIVINE INDWELLER
Come, 0 Lord of Life and Love and Beauty?
Thou who art myself and yet art God?
And dwell in this body of flesh,
Radiating all the beauty of holiness and perfection,
That the flesh may out-picture all that Thou art within?
Even so, come, 0 Lord. Amen.
PRAYER TO THE DIVINE MOTHER
o Divine Mother!
Illumine me with Divine Wisdom,
Vivify me with Divine Life and
Purify me with Divine Love,
That in all I think and say and do
I may be more and more Thy child. Amen.
GRACE BEFORE Ms
I am a creator.
By the power of my spiritualized Will
I consciously gather all the forces from this food,
And use them to create health, strength and harmony
In all my bodies (physical, astral and mental) -
APPENDIX
In response to the many inquiries received since the First
Edition was published in regard to our teachings as to the
"other and higher uses" (page 35) of the Creative Force
besides that of procreation, we would say that it must be
remembered that the Creative Force is the Divine Creative
Power of the Godhead, "that fructifying and vivifying Power
through whose action all things are brought into manifesta-
tion," and that it becomes sex-force only when focused in
and acting through the sex centers. When acting through
other centers, for instance through the brain or hands in
literary or musical composition, planning a building, painting
a picture, modeling in clay, designing a dress or any other
form of creative worknot mere physical exerciseit is still
the Divine Creative Force that is being used, but it is not
sex-force because it is not functioning through those centers.
Keep this fundamental conception in mind.
The main object of our teaching has always been to help
the great mass of married people who are advancing spirit-
ually and who desire to live as highly a spiritual life as pos-
sible, yet who are neither advanced enough nor strong enough
to live a strictly celibate life without sexual intercourse. Hence
the teachings aim to show how to take the simpler steps
before attempting the more advanced. The first step is to
eradicate the idea that there is anything impure or evil about
the sex relation itself (See 283). It becomes impure and
evil only when thought of as impure and used merely to
minister to lust and not as an expression of pure love be-
tween lawfully married couples. When we say lawfully mar-
ried, we mean made one in the sight of both God and man.
For while the mere repetition of a marriage ceremony, differ-
ing as it does in many countries, is not of itself a true
marriageand by true marriage we mean "a true marriage
of the Soul, not mere union of the sexes" (84)and granting
a true marriage to be one of divine complementation, never-
theless it is not a true marriage on earth until solemnized and
recognized and legalized according to the laws of whatever
country the couple may be living in (See 106). Only under
such circumstances is a sexual union permissible. And even
Appendix
under such conditions, if impure thoughts concerning it are
held by one or both of the parties, especially during the
union, it becomes impure. Our aim is therefore to teach those
who are not ready for the more advanced steps to purify
and uplift their union by holding thoughts of purity, love,
peace and harmony concerning it.
The second step is to teach them to moderate and control
it and transmute it, as long as they feel that they need its
expression. It may be lunited to procreation by those who
have so controlled it that they can limit its expression to
once in two or three years, naturally and without sense of
repression and without creating inharmony and perhaps break-
ing up the home and family life. For those who cannot thus
limit it naturally and harmoniously, it can be transmuted ani
used on the higher planes.tlirough the directing power of
thought and high idealsto create in the higher realms the
mental and spiritual qualities and bring forth the ideals they
most desire to manifest in their lives. This is not using sex-
force for spiritual development, but is using the Divine Cre-
ative force. This,, together with the exchanging and balancing
of the positive and negative magnetic and psychic currents,
etc., is what we mean by saying that it has "other and higher
uses" than procreation; for we have seen the "procreation
only" doctrine break up many otherwise happy fanulies and
cause untold misery among others, all of which is unneces-
sary. Even if one of the two is unwifling to join in the
ideals of transmutation, the other alone can accomplish a great
deal by holding those ideals, not in rebellion but in love and
harmony, during the union.
For the unmarried or those who for any reason, lcarmic
or otherwise, are temporarily separated from their comple-
mentary mates, transmutation through the other channels men-
tioned above is, of course, the only method of expression
open to them. Very often because one, has refused to listen
to the inner guiding Voice or because passion or worldly ends
have blinded them to the inner guidance, they find themselves
married in a merely earthly sense to one whom they realize
is not their true mate, and later find in another, one whom
they recognize as the true mate. Such a mistake can in no
wise excuse a violation of their marriage vowcertain modern
doctrines of so-called "freedom" in this respect we regard as
false and most perniciousin fact such a recognition makes
more binding the law of the land; for since such couples are
joined only by the law of man and not by divine harmony and
love, and since they have voluntarily submitted to it, they must
he true to its mandates until the same law sets them free.
On thu Point we admit no latitude whatever. Transmutation
can be accomplished alone, but it is much slower and more
difficult than when each has the hem of the other. The
Appendix
method of this transmutation is fully dealt with in the chapter
on "The Sex Problem" in our Letters from the Teacher.
The third step can be reached only by the comparatively
few, the stage in which the force is not merely controlled and
purified, but in which even the desire for physical union is
transcended or outgrown; not merely repressed and denied
with great struggle, but is no longer felt, 1. e., it is truly
mastered. Here the desire for physical union has been trans-
muted into aspiration or desire for union with the Divine,
the Higher Self. When this stage is reached all the neces-
sary exchange of magnetism can be attained by mere social
contact with each other. Even here great discretion must
be used and each must be faithful to his or her true mate.
for when magnetism has become the vehicle for the exchange
of the positive and negative forces it is just as much adultery
to mix magnetism promiscuously as it would be on the lower
plane to mix sex-force.
When this stage is reached all the forces can be used in
the higher realms without feeling any call from, hence with-
out denying or repressing, the sex centers. And since there
is no desire for physical union, there is no suppression or
repression and no inhannony arises, and both work as nor-
mally together in this higher relation and both are as fully
satisfied by this relationship as they were in the lower stages
while attaining it. At this stage it must be firmly under-
stood that "Whom God hat joined together, let no man put
asunder." For when two Souls have reached this stage of
oneness there can be no more putting asunder or divorce.
To teach indiscriminately to the spiritually undeveloped that
they must refuse the natural demands of their lawfully wedded
matein many cases brought to our attention, the demands
of the wife have been as insistent as those supposed to be made
only by menbefore their mate understands what it is all about
or is willing to accept it and still desires the usual normal
relations and is not ready for their transmutation or regenera-
tion, such teaching, we repeat, in our experience is the cause
of greater inharmony and evil than that which it is designed
to correct. The effect on the average husband is either to
cause the greatest inharniony and unhappiness or to cause a
separation, in many cases driving him outside the family for
what he considers "his rights," or it completely breaks up the
otherwise happy family through divorce. The effect on the
woman, since in most cases her denial merely results in sup-
pression unless really transmuted, is to fill her mind and entire
outlook upon life with thoughts of sex when she should be
turning her mind away from it. Even the very effort to avoid
it is but focusing her mind upon the subject and so saturating
her aura with it that she becomes a greater attraction for
and an easy prey to obsessing entities from the astral world,
Appendix
who are ever seeking just such gratificato', thus dçpleting
her physicaUy as well as astrally and magnetically. (if this
we have had ample evidence from the cases who apply to us
personally for help in nearly every city in which we have
lectured, and by letter from almost every part of the world.
Therefore we say there can be no hard and fast rule -or
forcible denial for all stages of development, except the rule
of purity, normality, moderation, harmony and love, any more
than we can expect the same standard of conduct from children
of all ages, except in the fundamentals. We therefore main-
tain that there must be at least three stages in the mastery of
this force: First, Purification of body and mind; second,
Tra us mutation or diversion from the lower centers by use
through the higher; and third, Regeneration or the conscious
and harmonious use of the forces by both in the higher realms.
This is not sex worship or phallicism.
To endeavor to kill out or suppress this function or so to
fear it that the very sight of the opposite sex precipitates the
thoughts to the sex and passion level is not the way to Mas-
tery. True Mastery or Regeneration can only be attained
by two Souls working in unison and harmony, both desiring
only the higher uses of the Creative Force and working
toward it without strain and without striving to force them-
selves beyond their normal stage of develojunent, as evi-
denced by the character of their desires.
In reply to many questions we would say that we do not
approve of Dr. Stockham's book, 'Xarezza," because its con-
clusion is unnatural and abnormal and in many cases has
simply become a means of ministering to indulgence, since the
mind and thought is concentrated on the act instead of being
centered above the physical union so that the act and the
union itself is forgotten in the concentration on the higher
ideals.
In conclusion, our main plea is, first, be natural and normal
but pure and wholesome in your relations; second, purify and
uplift your mind and thought concerning those relations until
the mere physical expression is no longer necessary or desired.
Only then are you ready for a higher step.
ThL UNlVLI(bAJ.. RLIO1Oug
r'iq
The Fellowship of the
Order of Christian Mystics
A non-sectarian spiritual movement for the promulgation
of a Cosmic and all-inclusive spiritual philosophy which
gives a satisfactory and scientific explanation of every
phase and condition of life both here and hereafter.
Christian in ethics, yet non-sectarian and universal.
Monthly lessons and personal correspondence on all vital
problems sent on the free-will offering basis.
If the teachings of the Order presented in this volume
have interested and helped you, send for Descriptive
Pamphlet.
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M.D., Sec'y.
3510 Quebec Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
These books present the philosophy of Christian Psychology and
Mysticism in plain, comprehensible terms and applied to the daily
life. Not mere theory and metaphysical speculation, but a definite
and comprehensible philosophy ot life and Soul-growth, tested
through years of experience, which includes a rational explanation
of all forms of mysticism and Biblical Occultism, as well as the
vital and complex problems of modern life and all after-death con-
ditions.
There are perhaps no books on the market to-day which so fed-
fill the needs of the awakened Soul who is seeking to know and
understand how to apply the universal laws of the spiritual life
under present and coming world conditions. While philosophical
and comprehensive in their scope, they also answer the heart-cry
for love, light and life.
Just the hooks to place in the hands of a friend who is out-
growing former limitations of thought and old conceptions. Chris.
tian in their ethics, yet non-sectarian, cosmic and universal.
Send for Descriptive Catalog.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
3MOQubv 31., N-W Washington, D. C.
5130 ConneCticUt Ave.
WoshLflgt 8, 0. C.
"The Curtiss Books" Dispel the Mists From Mysticism
The VOICE OF ISIS
A TEXT BOOK OF THE SPIRITUAL LIFE
A Veritable Compendium of Christian Psychology, Spiritual
Philosophy and Esoteric Biblical Interpretation
Not cold, intellectual essays, but vibrant with sympathy, understand-
lug and comfort for those facing life's trials and problems, explaining
the reasons therefor and how to master them. Radiant with practical
help. Takes fear out of the Bible.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Life's Duties and How to Recognize and Accomplish ThemThe
Cycle of Fulfillment. The European War Foreshadowed and Causes
Given Two Years Before It BeganDegrees and Orders, and the
Celestial HierarchiesThe Wisdom ReligionConcerning the Doctrine
of Hell Fire, Takes Fear Out of the BibleThe Eleventh Command.
mentNarcotics. Alcohol and PsychismA Study of KarmaThe
SelfThe Doctrine of Avatara. A Clear Explanation of the Laws
Under Which the Christ May Be Expected to Manifest on Earth in
This Age, exposes the mistake of the many daimants.A Study of
ReincarnationThe Seven Powers of ManA Brief Outline of Evo-
lution, both Man and NatureThe Sevenfold LawThe Formation
of World ChainsPurity, and the problem of sexThe Origin of Man,
a clear explanation which reconciles Fundamentalists and Liberals
The Symbol of the SerpentPurification vs. DeificationThe Memory
of Past Lives, explains why so many think they have been great per-
sonages in the pastThe Cycle of NecessityThe Path of Attainment
Earth's Finer ForcesThe Descent of the LightThe Two Tables of
Stone, or Woman's True Place and Mission in. LifeThe Healing
Prayer, and how to use itHow to Enter the SilenceNature's Mystic
Alphabet. A Study of the Relation of Sound, Number, Color and
FormThe Word Made FleshIlluminationThe Symbol of the Salt
Thou Shalt Not Kill, Covering the Whole Problem of Meat Eating
The Prayer of ConsecrationThe Meaning of the Symbol of the
Order.
"The Curtiss Books" Help You to Help Yourself
The VOICE OF ISIS
APPRECIATIONS
"Here we have a wise book."PorUand Oregonian.
"Is the most valuable, yes, the most practical of any that has come
under the observation of the reviewer."Joliet News.
"A marvel of erudition. Practical instruction accompanies well reasoned
theory at every turn."The Occult Review, London.
"Reveals with wonderful simplicity, directness and convincing force,
Christianity as perceived by the light of the Secret Wisdom."Azoth
Magazine, New York.
"It is indeed an epoch-making volume and almost every subject of
importance is treated . . . and elucidated beautifully. Verily those who
accept the authors' interpretations. . . will be students of Universal
Religion."Kalpako Magazine, India.
"High ideals are given upon sex and generation, and the book is
permeated with a large tolerance and loving service towards advancing
humanity."The Master Mind, Los Angeles.
"it is the practical problems of life. . . that constitute its use and
commend it to every earnest student."The Public, Chicago.
"Altogether, this is a book rich in thought and suggestion."Tke
American Theosophist.
"It contains truth of the highest spiritual order which the student of
Truth may readily lay hold upon."Unity, Kansas City.
"Not only has the book very favorably impressed me through its
common sense way of treating subjects on which occultists sometimes
go wild, but I have almost invariably heard the same expression of
opinion from others who have read it."Editor The 0. E. Library Critic,
Washington.
"Undoubtedly the best that has appeared for some time . . . written
in a style both simple and scholarly."Newpoi't Plain Talk.
"The greatest book since The Secret Doctrine."J. B.
"The first and only book that gives me a feeling of complete satis-
faction as I read."Mrs. S. S. B.
"I keep it close and read it as some do their Bibles."Mrs. C. W.
"For me, your book is the most inclusive, popular, comprehensive,
sane and balanced, and saturated with that wonderful and helpful
essence of understanding, sympathy and love, which makes your book
a living friend. Your spiritual psychology is unique! It has opened my
eyes."P. R. German edition, $3.00
Thirteenth Edition, 433 Pages, Elaborate Index. Price, $2.50
German Edition. t3.00
"The Curtiss Books" Explain the Second Coming
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
Not a seauel to The Voice of isis, but rather a response to the
urgent call for further and more advanced instruction concerning the
great unrest in world conditions, and their solution.
Also contains a reasonable and scientific explanation of how and
when and to whom the Son of Man will appear at the Second Coming.
The only satisfactory exposition of this subject.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Mystic Lifein nature, so in manhow to react to stimuli from
the inner world as we now react to the outer.The Sign Aquarius
doctrine of cycles and agesthe Sign of the Son of Man in heaven.
Are These the Last Dayscycles of Races and sub-races--meaning of
"the end of the world."Consets and Eclipseshow cosmic changes
affect the Earththe Sun-spot cycle and its effectHalley's comet
ushered in Aquarian Age.The Law of Growthbow the ideal mani-
fests through the Law of Growththe dynaspheric force.Birth of
the New Agethe Water Bearerembodiment of the ChristHis
teachings.Jacob and Esaumeaning of the trickeryof Jacob's twelve
sonssymbology of the Stars and Stripesis America the seat of
the new race ?Mastery and the Mastersmeaning of mastery and
how attainedfeminine Mastersthe Great White Lodge.Mother
Earthher alchemyher seven layersorigin of insect pests and plant
blightseffect of blood shed on battlefields.Tbe Four Windsuse of
in the Biblecoming cataclysmsThe Three JohnsJohn the Bap-
tist, John the Beloved, John the Revelator.Ckildren of the House-
holdthe Prayer for Demonstrationprotection from astral forces.
astral chillastral diseaseschild trainingattaining material supply.
Man, Know Thyselfdivisions of manlaws of mindconcentration
on the solar plexustraining the subconscious mindthe superconscious
symbol of the carpenterof Herodthe crudfixion.Orderly Sequence
effect of order and disorder.Tbe Spiral of Lifereason for changes
in lifeuse of the Masters' names.Life Waveslaw of wave-motion
rhythm of the breathtidal wavesstorms of emotionmagnetic
variations of the EarthMessoge of the Sphinxmeaning of the
scaraborigin of the Order of Christian Mysticscrypt beneath the
Sphinx.The Second Woelength of the four periods of the woe
false prophetsThe Day of Judgmentsigns of His coming.Law of
Sacrificesacrifice of the Sun In Naturevalue of talismansvalue
of sacrificeThe Sheep and the Goatstheir symbologythe "other
sheep"The Mystic Oakorigin and function of the dancerhythmic
motion In religious servicessymbology of Circle and Sun dances
origin of bonfires and the MaypoleDryads and NaladsThe Dia-
snond Heartformation of a diamondforces obtained from a dia-
niond.The True Priesthoodmeaning of priest, hierophant, prophet-
Meichisedec and Jesushow su Avatar manifestsHis near advent
partial Avatars or Aveshas.A New TestamentJesus' new testament
Tbe Curtis. Books" Give a New Outlook on Life
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
-.-symbology of "the upper chamber'Lof bloodof the bread and wine.
Crossing Jordanwandering in the wildernessdividing the waters
crossing dry-shod.--Taking Jerichosymbology of the ram's horns
why the walls fell.The Vain ShowLuciferdistinction between Luci-
fer, Satan and the devilUniversal Center of the Solar Schoolthe
Luciferian School.Faith and WorksSun Initiation.Marswhy
Mars is redrelation of Mars and Venuswhy the Bible is allegorical.
The Spiritual Birthplace of the spiritual birththe spiritual or
Nirmanakaya bodyThe Mighty Angel' 'this same Jesus shall so come
in like manner"His method of appearanceconditions necessaryhow
to recognize HimThe Sours Guerdonlesson of each Earth-life-
object of incarnationvalue of ceremonies, observances, diet, etc.the
Lord from heaven.
APPRECIATIONS
"An admirably conceived and well produced volume, which should do
much to increase still further the wide circle of students to whom the
Christo-Theosophy of The Order of Christian Mystics makes so strong
an appeaL'The Occult Review, London.
"Have only got about one-fourth through with 'The Message oi
Aquaria,' but the book is so good that I want to put one in each of our
public libraries."R. H. W.
"The book makes interesting reading. . . . These two authors are ap-
parently authorities."San Francisco Journal.
"These books are not claptrap utterances of shallow minds; they are
deep and sincere."Ookland Tribune.
"Quite apart from their great message to the world, the amount of
actual knowledge they contain and the extraordinary high standard of
literary finish, together with perfect simplicity of language and style,
make this side of these works (the Curtiss books) without a jarring
note."A. A. B., London.
"What a tremendous work you have accomplished! How immensely
important! Your works must certainly become more widely known all
over the world! The highest spirituality breathes through every sen-
tence. I am amazed at the immense spiritual value I have discovered
and am daily discovering in them. They are Soul-uplifting to an in-
credible degree! How blessed you are to receive these splendors from
the Infinite Consciousness direct! You are two Souls specially favored
by Heaven! With the greatest esteem and admiration, your friend."
Baron Albert Van der Naillen, author of In the Sanctuary, etc.
Comi'lete Index. Fifth Rdition. Price. $250
"The Curtiss Books" Renew Faith through Knowledge
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
Pleiades and the 7 RishisMyth of Orionof Niobethe Letter Zabs
The Chariotthe Number of Evolutionthe Octavethe 8th Sphere
the Dweller on the ThresholdValley of the Shadow of Deaththe
Letter HethJusticethe Number of InitiationApollonius of Tyana
MeditationGenii of the HoursHigher InitiationsPlato and Nuin-
ber 9the 9th Hourthe 9 Musesthe Mystery of Number 9
Symbology of a Ropethe 144,000the Letter TethThe Hermit
the Number 10the Number of Completionthe Decadthe Sun
Abram and SaralZodiac Formerly bad Only 10 SignsDiagram of
the Group-SoulMeaning of the 10 Lepersthe Letter YodThe
Wheel of Lifethe Joy of CompletionKey-note of CreationGeo-
logic ErasNumber of Completed Earth, Man and Super-man.
APPRECIATIONS
"In this book all the lore of centuries that has gathered about the
number from 1 through 10 is set forth with a perfect wealth of
detail. . . This book Is easily the most complete and satisfactory
bringing together of Information that is scattered in hundreds of vol..
umes not readily accessible."The Boston Post.
"It is the most fascinating book I ever read."De Casseres, New
York Sun.
"It certainly makes out a good brief for the significance of num-
bers, and one well supported by mathematics and music... . It con-
tains much besides the ingenious showing of the curious correspondence
of numbers."Springfield Republican.
"An elaborate spiritual interpretation of numbers and symbols which
supplements Middle Age deiverances In this field with illustrations
from modern science, and comes near to relegating Pythagoras to the
shell as a back number. . . . The treatise presents an amount of well
collected information which no student of numbers and their form
symbols can afford to neglect. . . . The general aim Is both ethical and
religious."Boston Herald.
"it is deep and profound. As one goes Into this message of phi-
losophy one becomes vitally interested, and even awed."Portland
Oregonian.
"The person who has only an amused contempt for this sort of
thing will yet find a gripping interest in contemplating what it has
produced."The San Francisco Chronicle.
"Goes deeply into the philosophy of numbers and should be of
interest to all students of symbolism and Freemasonry. . . . Not a
mathematical dissertation, but replete with occult information."
Masonic New Age Magazine.
"Easily the most complete and satisfactory bringing together of
all the lore of centuries that has gathered about numbers
set forth with a perfect wealth of detail."Boston Post.
Profusely illustrated with ten full-page plates, portrait of Mr..
Curtiss, many diagrams, tables, etc.
Combine index. Sixth and Revised Edition. Price $2.50
«The Curtiss Books" Explain the Mysteries of Life
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
"This work is not only the most comprehensive and authoritative
book on the significance and spiritual interpretation of numbers and
symbols, but its 40 chapters contain more new, reliable and spiritually
helpful information on numbers, letters, the Tarot cards, the circle,
triangle, squares pentacle, Seal of Solomon, the Commandments, includ-
ing the esoteric interpretation of many Bible and classic myths hereto-
fore little understood, also Masonic symbols, the Trinity, the Elohini,
angels, mythology, evolution, cycles, initiations, etc., than many sep-
arate books on those subjects."Baltimore American.
Not a dry mathematical treatise, nor mere speculative theories.
Illustrations and confirmations from nature at every turn.
Shows "That all personal experiences are expressions of the one
Great Law manifesting according to mathematical principles, demon-
strating that the unfoldment of the godlike possibilities inherent in each
Soul follows, step by step, the same order of events that is followed
in the Cosmos."
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Origin of Numerical Systemsthe Symbol of the Circle, Ser-
pent, Kirk and Churchthe Druids and HyperboreansRound Towers
of IrelandIndians' Use of Feathersthe Circle as the Egg and the
CatOrigin of the Decimal SystemOrigin of the Druid Bonfires
and MaypoleWhy 1 Comes Firstthe Letter AlephThe Juggler
Origin of Constantine's Symbolthe Magic Wand and CrozierSoul-
marriageKey to the Universal Law of Sexthe Letter Beththe
High PriestessJakin and BoasSolar CrossVeil of Isisthe 3 Great
Star StreamsOrigin of the Triangle and the TrinityDiagram of
Law of Marriage and DivorceTripod of Pythian Priestess--Noah and
His SonsProphets in the Fiery FurnacePower of the Spoken Vord
"Army of the Voice"The Letter GimelThe EmpressOrigin of
the Square, and Cross, Swastikathe 4 Beaststhe 4 Windsthe 4
Gospelsthe 4 Rivers of Eden-40 Years in the Wilderness-40 Days'
Fastthe 4 Castes of Mankind-4 Stages of Civilization-4 Forms of
Government, the last of which we are now enteringthe Letter Daleth
The EmperorDifference between Sabbath and SundayRole of
SaturnS Pointed StarBelshazzar's VisionClairvoyance Not a 6th
SenseSymbol of the Crocodilethe S Talismans of the SikhsAntj-
gonus' Vision of the PentacleEffect of a Reversed Symbolthe Letter
HiThe PopeOffering Up Tsaac-6 Days of Creation-6 Days of
LaborNumber 6 and the Elementalsthe Letter VauThe Mystery
of Creationthe 7 ElohimMusic of the SpheresColors of the Musi-
cal ScaleApollo's Lyrethe Pipes of Panthe number of Gestation
the 7-fold Earth Chainthe 7 Races and Sub-races--the 7-fold Con-
struction of Manthe 7 Cycles of Lifethe 7-fold Basis of Masonry
Mine. Blavatiky and Number 7the 7 Churches in AsiaNumber 7 in
Revelationthe 7-Pointed StarSeal of SolomonLegend of the Mina-
tourof Phaetonthe 7 Principles of Man clearly expoundedthe 7
"The Curtiss Books" Have Remodeled Men's Lives
The KEY OF DESTINY
A Sequel to The Key to the Universe
This volume presents three revelations of supreme Importance, con-
cerning the origin of the Zodiac, the Labors of Hercules, and the
relation of the Sun Myth to the Christian religion.
Why is the Zodiac divided into 12 signs and not some other number?
Why should there be only four elements, earth, air, fire, water? Why
should each have three manifestations in the Zodiac?
All the myths and allegories involving 12, such as Jacob and his 12
sons, also the 12 Disciples of Jesus, and the 12 months of the year,
etc., are all based upon the 12-fold division of the Zodiac. But
nowhere in print have we found any philosophical and scientific ma-
son why the division into 12 was chosen, save in this volume. Truly
momentous discovery.
Why should the peculiar animals used be applied to the Zodiac when
the forms of the constellations they embrace in no way resemble or
even suggest such animals? The reason is found only in this volume.
Vitally necessary for all students of astrology.
Nowhere in all literature can the interpretation of the 12 Labors
of Hercules be found. In this volume the authors not only give the
interpretation, but connect each labor with its proper zodiacal sign.
This one feature might well form a valuable book in itself.
The universal Sun Myth has been the basis of the life-narrative
of every Sun God or spiritual Light Bearer sent to humanity. This
volume shows that this is more than a myth and why it is a spiritual
reality. These chapters are a direct challenge to the so-called "higher
critics" of the Bible and a complete refutation of their chief claims
against the Bible story. Of great importance to all students of com-
parative religion, to ministers and to Bible students generally.
These are only a few of the many revelations of this truly wonderful
volume
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Number 11, a New Beginning, the cycle of the advanced Disciple
the Legend of Parsifalthe 11 year Astronomical Cyclethe 11 year
Sun Spot CycleGems and the ZodiacUse of a person's Name-
NumberReincarnation and Transmutationthe Permanent Atom
Physical ImmortalityAttitude for HealingCause of Cancerthe He-
brew Lettersthe 144,000the 11th letter, Kaphdiagrams of the
Cycle of Manifestation.
Number 12, the Manifested UniverseGeometrical Law why the
Zodiac is 12 foldDiagram of Zodiacthe Aquarian AgeWhy were
the disciples called "Fishers of Men"?Origin of the 12 Tribes.-
12 Stones from Jordanthe 12 DisciplesU Knights of King Arthur
the Last Supperthe 12 Baskets of BreadJesus at 12 yearsWhen
is Incarnation Complete?Incarnation in Various SignsMystery of
the Gobi Desert-12 Hebrew Simple Letters-12 Body SaltsJesus, the
Piscean Avatar.
"The Curtiss Books" Satisfy Both Head and Heart
The KEY OF DESTINY
The 12 Labors of HerculesRelation of Hercules and JacobKili..
ing the Nemean LionKilling the HydraCapturing the Keryneian
DoeCapturing the Erymanthian BoarCleaning the Augean Stables
Killing the Man-eating Birds of StymphalosCapturing the Cretan
BullCapturing the Man-eating Mares of DiomedesSeizing the
Girdle of HippolyteCapturing the Oxen of Geryoneusthe Three-
headed Hell HoundObtaining the Golden Apples of HesperidesChange
from 10 signs to 12Wrestling with AntaiosMysteries of Eleusis.
Number 13Why Considered Unlucky-13 at a dinnerIts Real
SignificanceThe Savior GodMystical Meaning of the BibleHigher
Critics refutedthe Life of JesusNumber of Judas-30 pieces of
SilverMeaning of Playing Cards-13 Apparitions of Jesus.
Number 14Phantoms of the MindHawaiian Sacrec. SharkLevia-
thanJonahUse of Perfumes.
Number 15Blood of the Lambthe Devil, How CreatedOrigin
of DiseasesRace KarmaPower of ThoughtDweller on the Threshold
Hour of Initiationthe Order of the 15Why EstablishedCon-
t scting the Mastersthe Holy GrailMessage of the Sphinx.
Number 16VictoryNature SpiritsEnchantments.
Number 17Disposing Intclligencethe Celestial Hierarchies-144,000
Value of HoroscopcsDiagram of the Hierarchies.
Number 18The Second InitiationBlack Magiciansthe $ Sign
Symbol of the Swan or PelicanNumber 666 and the Beast.
Number 1QNumber of the SunTwice-bornSun Eclipse every 19
yearsthe Hyperborean LandDruid CollegesSun Initiationthe
Philosopher's StoneCenter in the Spleenthe SwastikaEquilibrium
of the Sexes.
Number 20Celestial InitiatorPower of the ChristReason for
Spiritual Development in Deformed BodiesDescription of the Pineal
Gland and the Pituitary Bodythe Feminine Ray.
Number 21Incarnations of the Higher SelfMme. Blavatsky's last
IncarnationSpiritual Majoritythe Crocodile.
Number 22The New JerusalemSquaring the CircleLaw of Co-
operationAquarian AgeProphecies of DiastersEstablishing New
Conditions--the Woman's AgeTaking Vows.
APPRECIATIONS
"They have collected a positive wealth of material about the sym-
bolism of numbers. . . . You will find here a positive treasury of in-
formation about how to climb to the ultimate attainment."The Bosto,i
Post.
Ten full-page plates, portrait of Dr. Curtiss, many diagrams, etc.
Four! k Edition. 322 Pag.s. Complete Index. Price 2.5O
Curtiss Books" Solve the Riddle of Deathand After
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DOES THE PERSONALITY SURVIVE DEATH?
Is communication possible? Is there a safe and legitimate method?
This book gives a dear, scientific, satisfying and comforting explanation
of all after-death conditions, including a clear explanation of the
problems unsoved by "Raymond"; "Letters from a Living Dead
Man"; "Patience Worth," etc. A rational, scientific, all-inclusive philos-
ophy, not a mere mediumistic report.
Wastes no time with elaborate proofs of life after death. Written
for those who already know it to be a fact and desire authoritative
instruction as to the details. Explains all methods of communication
with the invisible.
Four added chapters on Protecting PowersIndependent Commu-
nications, examplesThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a Message from
Quentin RooseveltThe AnnunciationA Message from LincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarian AgeA Message from SaturnThe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe CurtainAviator
returns.
You will find all your questions answered In this volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
Scientific proofsRivers of Life and Deaththe Seven Realms
Realm of Reflectionthe Astral Doublethe After-Death Sleepthe
Awakening of the Aged; After BattleAstral HelpersIndians as
GuidesEarth-bound Spiritsthe Law of Thought and DesireDiseases
Due to Reflex Psychic ConditionsClothing, Houses, Amusements
the Method of MaterializationSouls Seeking IncarnationCondi-
tions Around the Prospective Motherthe Hall of LetheWhy We
Forget the Higher Realms at BirthLaw of Manifestationthe Outer
l)arkness"Weeping and Wailing and Gnashing of Teeth"Masscs
of Color, Perfumes, SoundsHow the Flowers Are ColoredThought-
forms and Inventionsthe Pattern MuseumAeroplane Models and
Other Inventions to ComeObsessing EntitiesPsychic Cause of
DrunkennessExamples and the CureCrimes of "Irresistible Impulse"
Lustful TemptationsControl of Sex DesiresDual and Multiple
PersonalitiesLoving Friends and HelpersSt. Paul's Injunction to
"Try the Spirits"So-called "Lost Souls"the Dweller on the Threshold
Sad Fate of the SuicideElementals--the Fairies, Nature Sprites
Their Messages and PropheciesHow Gold is FormedPsychic Realms
Diagrams of the Astral WorldDeath of the Astral BodySpirits
who "Progress to Higher Spheres"the "Hall of Learning" and the
Great Schoolsthe Great White LodgeWork of Mme. Blavatsky
ContinuesIndependent Methods of CommunionTelepathy, Clairvoy-
ance, Clairaudience, Clairsentience, Intuition, Inspiration, Theophany,
AveshaDifference Between Independent and Subjective Methods
"Spirit Control"Subjective vs. Ecstatic TranceMaterialization--
Trumpet Speakingthe Ouija Board, Examples of Its Deceptions and
"The Curtiss Books" Explain All Psychic Experiences
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DangersSir Oliver Lodge's Warning as to Automatic WritingThe
Telepathic Method, Bible ExamplesSt. Paul's Directions to All Chris-
tiansthe Astral Chill vs. the Spiritual Fire, Chill or ThrillProtecting
PowersNegative vs. Positive StatesEnoch and the Doctrine of
TranslationAkashic Recordsfour added chapters of Independent
CommunicationsThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a Message from
Quentin RooseveltThe Annundati&nA Message from LincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarian AgeA Message from Saturnthe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe Curtain.
You will find your questions answered in this volume.
APPRECIATIONS
"We can very warmly recommend this volumeBy far the most
advanced book on the sub ject.Knickerbocker Press, Albany, N. It.
"It is the Christian hereafter that is described with the classification
of the Astral World on a scientific bosis."New Yoi-k Times.
"Distinctively allied with the Bible.. . really of essential value."
Springfield Republican.
"One of the most valuable passages of the book, and a really notable
contribution to the subject, is on the treatment of drunkards and the
nature of alcohol."Toronto Sunday World.
"We heartily recommend the chapter on The Desire Realm.
There is much other useful advice and knowledge given, such as
regards suicides and the dangers of (subjective) mediumship. The
chapters on elementals and fairies are extremely interesting, and alto-
gether our friends the Curtisses have given us a very valuable contribu-
tion for occult study."Editor of Azoth Magazine.
"A great deal of exceedingly useful advice is given to people regard-
ing their relation to their friends who have passed over. It is partic-
ularly desirable that in these times of death and sorrow people should
be familiar wit/i conditions of life on the other side of the veil
--Toronto Sunday World
"A saner treatise on the After-Death life would be difficult tc
find. . . . The Authors are perhaps world-famous for their teachings,
and this work should enhance their already great reputation. . -
Over 300 pages of sound knowledge and advice. - . . The space at
one's disposal cannot possibly do justice to a work of this caliber,
and those who would delve deeper into this subject should not fail
to read this book." The Occult Review (London).
Can You Afford to Remain Ignorant on This Vitally
Important Subject?
Sixth Edition. With New Appendix on Narcotics and Prayers of
The 0. C. M. 2.5O
sThe Curtiss Books" solve evolutionary problems
THE TRUTH ABOUT EVOLUTION
and the BIBLE
A new and illuminating concept of evolution.
Revolutionary yet inspiring views of the whole Garden of Eden
story. A new interpretation of the factors claimed by both sides of the
controversy and a rational basis for tire reconciliation of religion and
science; of the Fundamentalists and the Liberals.
Profound, yet clear and simply expressed. Scientifically accurate, yet
not tiresomely statistical or unduly technical. Vibrant with deep spirit-
ual understanding and penetrating insight Into ultimate realities and the
fundamentals of both causation and manifestation.
Expands the mental horizon. Satisfies the head, yet thrills the heart.
A grasp of this book will enable one to maintain his stand in any
company. Answers all questions.
Covers all phases, both biblical and scientific.
Chapters on Science, what it has proved as to the evolution of forms.
Materialism. Not a sound philosophy. Accept its facts, but not its
conclusions. Manifestation. Necessity of a pattern and how material-
bed. Examples. Creation. The first Adam created, the second formed.
Not the descendants of apes and why. Evolution not a mechanical
process. Spiritual radio.activity. Adam and Eve. Not parents of all.
How and why the separation of the sexes took place. Woman's place
and duty. Sex appeal. Garden of Eden. In all religions. No such
place even found. Meaning. Trees in the Garden. Meaning of their
fruit. Why banished? The Serpent Power. Why used as a symbol?
Sex not impure. The Kundalini-force, effect on spinal cord and brain.
Unity in Duality. The Twain one Flesh. True marriage made in heaven.
Object of marriage. Trial and companionate marriages. Supplementary
chapters on God, The Image of God, and Emmanuel.
APPRECIATIONS
"A new conception of evolution." New York Times.
"A new Interpretation of the factors claimed by both sides in the
controversy over evolution and the Bible." Detroit Free Press.
"The flndins of science are well stated." Richmond Times-Dispatch.
"A new and enlightening contribution.... Contains a profound dis-
cussion of the conflict between science and religion and offers an in-
teresting explanation." Spokane Chronicle.
"The writers unquestionably deplore the drift toward animalism, and
they wish to reinforce the drift to spirituality." Boston Transcript.
'Written in a way to hold the interest." Oakland Tribune.
aThe place of woman as the complement of man is demonstrated."
Columbus Dispatch.
"The story of Eden and the modern social problems invclved are dis-
cussed at length and with much interesting comment." Buffalo Courser-
Express.
"Written in simple, clear language the book gives a striking impres-
sion of the process of evolution . . . in which man shares on all planes
It is a source of light, a revelation to be welcomed by all such as long
and thirst for an understanding of the unity of all life and to whom
'The Curdss Books" illumine biblical allegories
the Bible so far had remained obscure." Editor, Coude a Coude, Paris.
"The Curtisses in this volume have cast upon this subject a search-
light of profound spiritual perception, bringing light to many things
heretofore hidden. The book is splendidly written, a rich mine of mt or-
ination, and we advise each one of our readers to obtain this valuable
and much-needed treasure volume." Editor, The Aquarian Age.
"Written with simple clarity and directness and reveals the profound
thought as well as the constructive religion of the co-authors." Bul-
letin, National League of American Pen Women.
"The old knowledge is transfigured by the new and inspired concep-
tion. Instead of the letter which killeth, we are given food for the
growth of the souL Editor, Psychic Science, London.
"You may take your Bible literally or otherwise, but you are bound
to find The Truth About Evolution and the Bible a stimulating and
thought-provoking book. ... The sort of book that can be picked
up and 'dipped into' anywhereintensely readable from the first page to
the last." Editor, Occult Digest.
"The latest work from the inspiring pen of these two highly special-
ized students of the Scriptures, and the psychology of the Spirit, with
all its symbolism brought down to earth, and presented in language
both simple and impressive. . . . This book is commended to all who
are interested in things of the Spirit and who are striving to widen and
deepen their understanding of symbology." Editor, Knowing People.
"We are always glad to see a new book by the Curtisses appear at
our desk. We stop work at once and read it, for the several books
issued by these gifted authors thus far have always been not only
helpful but of unusual merit. . . . We have enjoyed it. We have
profited by it. The dean, wholesome, sane, logical philosophy em-
bodied cannot fail to impress constructively. We affirm that it is dis-
tinctly good stuff." Editor, Mercury.
"The study of the Bible in the light of the above views ought to en-
courage every thinking Christian to a more rational and scientific view
of religion and must satisfy both his intellect and his heart. . . . We
look to this book therefore as of profound use and interest to all truly
religious." Editor, The Kalpaka, India.
"An addition to the well-known 'Curtiss Books' is sure of a welcome
from many readers. . . . Much of the symbolism of the Bibleand
particularly of the creation story in Genesisis explained in an illumi-
nating style. . . . The chapters dealing with the sex problem and the
true meaning of marriage . . . will no doubt prove helpful to many
people who are groping for truth amid all the conflicting theories
preached today . . . will inspire and uplift all who are able to appre-
hend it." The Occult Review, London.
"it is always a pleasure to receive a new book for review from Dr.
and Mrs. F. Homer Curtiss, for the reason that their writings are al-
ways direct and to the point, andwhat is of the greatest usefulness in
this rather inchoate fieldsimple and very readable. . . - The particu-
lar value of this volume . . . is the consistent and intelligent reference
to scientific authorities and modern points of view. . . . Dr. and Mrs.
Curtiss greatly excel in the symbolical or allegorical school of Bible
interpretation." Marc Edmund Jones, Editor, The Sabian Philosophy.
omI,rehensive index Jot students. Second Editios. Price, 25
'The Curtiss Books" expound a Cosmic philosophy.
COMING WORLD CHANGES
A rational summary of the many recent prophecies as to
world cataclysms, the value of such prophecies, and the
scientific and philosophic principles underlying such cyclic
changes in the earth's surface.
Not a pessimistic, hopeless and fear-producing volcrne,
but presenting the underlying principles of the changes, and
a definite remedy for shortening "the days of tribulation."
Chap. IProphecies of Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle and
many others.
Chap. ILGeological Consider-
ations, the scientific aspect.
Chap. IlLThe Philosophy of
Planetary Changes such as
sank Atlantis, etc.
Chap. IV.The King of the
World and the predicted
Asiatic invasion of Europe.
Chap. V.The Heart of the
World. The relation of
America to world condi-
tions.
Chap. VLThe Battle of Ar-
mageddon. Psychic fac-
tors in the World War,
etc.
Chap. VILThe Remedy.
Based on scientific psycho-
logical principles.
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are noted internationally for the
profound scholarship with which they have studied the prob-
lems of ancient and modern mysticism. . . . The fact that
they predicted the World War, in a volume published two
years before the assassination at Serajevo, lends special value
to their dream of the approaching new era. . . ."
National Pictorial Monthly, New York.
If you wish to understand the finer forces operating back
of present-day conditions you need this remarkable volume.
Countless fulfillments of its propheciesexceptional earth-
quakes, floods, droughts, famines, etc.have occurred since
its first edition.
Third Edilion. Art Board:. Prfc $1.10 poit paid.
"The Curtiss Books' expound the laws of future events
COMING WORLD CHANGES
APPRECIATIONS
"For many years now 'The Curtiss Books' have been welcomed
by all earnest and devout seekers of wisdom; and this volume is of
special value in the present World Crisis. There are many books
written . . . on these great changes . . . but few are of equal value
to this ne." The Rally (London).
"Like all the other 'Curtiss Books,' this is a deep and scholarly con-
sideration of the subject.. . . An important book . . . and we hope
that each of our readers will secure a copy." The Aquarian Age
(Santa Barbara).
"In view of present tendencies it strikes a startlingly confirmatory
note.... Is it merely a coincidence that seismic and meteorological
disturbances of all kinds are now becoming so frequent and severe?
Needless to say that we consider the course indicated is one
which is worthy of every commendation, and that we can heartily
recommend it." From a four-page editoriat review in The Occult
Review (London).
"Even when read with certain reservations as to possibility and
probability, one cannot but grasp the deep spirituality of the messages,
and to be assured of the earnest and sincere motives back of the
writing." Washington Post (D.C.).
"The book is well written and dear; and much credibility is lent
to the prophecies by statements of geological changes already in
progress.. . . The book handles the spiritual side of coming world
changes as saliently as it does the physical, with a beautiful short
chapter at the end called 'The Remedy." Theosophical Messenger
(Chicago).
"Full of deep spirituality." Hull Evening News (England).
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are exceptionally gifted writers in their
peculiar fielda field of Oriental mysticism lighted by a Western sun.
Coining World Changes is a remarkably interesting volume." Ghost
Stories (New York).
"The work done by Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss, as set forth in this little
book, deserves recognition from all fellow-workers." Canadian The-
osophist (Toronto).
"Any addition to 'The Curtiss Books' is very welcome in the librar}
of the occultist because of the unusually sincere and constructive na-
ture of the work carried on by the doctor and his wife." The Mes-
sage (Los Angeles).
"With the advent of each new 'Curtiss Book' we reasonably expect
further researches into truth, and we are not disappointed.
Much spiritual pabulum is developed in their new book, which we
take pleasure in commending." Mercury (New York).
Dr. F. Homer Curtiss and his brilliant wife, joint authors of a
number of famous books on philosophy, believe a remarkable change
is impending. . . Thcy have dared to prophesy.National Pictorial
Monthly (New York).
"The Curtiss Books" Solve Sex Problems Normally
LETTERS from the TEACHER
These letters from the Teacher of The Order of Christian Mystics,
in answer to questions coming from earnest and intelligent students
all over the world, touch just the practical questions that arise in
the daily lives of all who are striving to live the higher life.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Yolume I
Spiritual Growth and De-
velopment.
The Masters of Wisdom
and Their Work.
IlL Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
Prayer and Its Results.
The Astral Plane.
Psychic Phenomena.
VIL Dreams and Visions.
VIIL Health and Disease.
The Sex Problem.
Miscellaneous.
Each volume contains en-
tirely different letters covering
different phases of the subject
mentioned in the other volume.
Volume I. Sixth Edition Price $i.00.
Volume II. Second Edition Price $2.00.
Volume II
Health and Disease.
Psychic Conditions.
The Law of Karma.
Coming World Changes.
Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
After Death Conditions.
Prayer and Its Results.
Health and Disease.
Financial Problems.
Reincarnation.
The Sex Problem.
Marriage and Divorce.
Discouragement.
Jesus and The Christ.
Miscellaneous.
"The Curtiss Books" explain the problems of daily life
LETTERS from the TEACHER
APPRECIATIONS
"Among the many occult volumes before the public, aiming to assist
students who desire earnestly to master lower appetites and devote
themselves seriously and successfully to the culture of true spirituality,
I know of none more useful and admirable than the work now be-
fore me."W. I. Colville.
'Many Biblical and other problems are handled dearly and con-
vincingly in a manner that shows the instructor to be one sure of
the position taken, desirous of imparting helpful knowledge to all
earnest inquirers, at the same time leaving all students in full mental
liberty.Mystic Light Library Bulletin.
"Another interesting contribution to the department of occult
science."Portland Oregonian.
"The letters of advice, of which this book is nearly full, bear every
mark of culture, of sincerity, and of a lofty thought."Sws Francisco
Argonaut.
"The book is pervaded with the spirit of loving service. Every
question receives a clear and careful answer which must have satisfied
the inquirer."American Theosophist.
"There is no subject in the book that is not treated in a manner
so interesting that it is hard to lay it down, but when the chapter on
The Sex Problem is reached there is found some strong food for a
strong man with a strong mind. The tone of the whole subject is
Purity. It is the sort of a book the student wants for reference."-
Jdwards Paul Jones.
"Its warnings against the dangers of psychism, and its frank and
Tational discussion of the sex question .. . are to be commended."
Editor 0. E. S. Critic.
"The beautiful truths expressed in beautiful diction cannot help
but appeal to the soul which is seeking the higher things of hf e."
Unity.
"I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for the comfort
that has come to me through your Letters from the Teacher. I felt
the moment the book caine into my hands like one who had come
home at lastto a wonderful home for which one had been long and
earnestly seeking and praying and longing. .. . When one comes into
the realization of one's dearest dreams, knowledge is instantaneous
there is no doubt."M. C.
"I find your books the most helpful I have ever read. They are so
liveable and meet the wants of life. Words are so inadequate to ex-
press my gratitude."Mrs. E. H. C.
'Vol. II, New letters covering other subjects, including special chap-
ters on Sex, Marriage and Divorce, Financial Problems, the Christ
and the coining World Teacher, etc.
"The Curtiss Books" Are Exhaustless Wells of Fascinating Material
New! Just out! in June of 1935. Another large volume. The
Authors' latest work. A companion to THE VOICE OP ISIS and
THE MESSAGE OP AQUARIA.
THE INNER RADIANCE
Forty splendid chapters covering almost every phase of the mystic
life, occultism and spiritual philosophy, from the stock market col-
lapse and the depression, and the remedy, to the zodiac, the elementals,
divine fire, redemption, King Arthur and his knights, King Desire, and
the Christ Star.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Inner Radiance: that mysterious power which pushes all things
on to perfection. The God Man: God in the process of manifestation
in man. As in the Days of Noah: planets returning to similar rela-
tions and producing similar conditions today. How to master them.
Spiritual Co-operation: a law of the universe. Man and the Zodiac:
how the 12 signs are represented in man. The Lord from Heaven:
how the spiritual man descends into the human. The Soul Language:
the inner language of spiritual consciousness. Trans,nigration: the
doctrine, the atoms. Not reincarnation. Cosmic Causes of World
Conditions and the Remedy: Cosmic and Karmic factors, Dr. Curtiss'
lecture before the Chamber of Commerce. The Mystic Rose: why a
symbol of Divine Love. The Great and the Small: all things are rela-
tive. The Lords of Karma: the events of life neither fate nor pun-
ishment, but opportunities. Redemption: the esoteric doctrine. Why
necessary. Reliance: of the outer upon the inner. The Great Work:
the mystery of spiritual alchemy. King Desire: his meaning and
mastery. The Mystery of the Elements: the conscious forces back of
Nature. Hymn to the Elements. Man and the Elementals: role of the
Gnomes, Undines, Sylphs and Salazuanders. The Realm of Be-ness:
the mystery of Being from non-being. Saturn and Cyclic Law: rõle
of Saturn as tester and Initiator. God, Man and the Planet: their re-
lation. The Book of Remembrance The Third Eye: functions of
the pineal gland. The Mount of Attainment: the end of the Path.
The Round Table: symbology of King Arthur and his knights. Di-
vine Fire: fire of life, of mind. Cosmic fire. The Glory of the L.ord:
how recognized and contacted. Lessons by the Way: the ancient con-
tinents. Lesson of the sage-brush. Nature's symbology. The King of
Glory: where and how he reigns. The Christ Star: the shepherds
and the Wise Men. The five points. Preparation: for the Second
Coming.
Second Edition with full index. Price $2.50.
Order all of "The Curtiss Books" direct from
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
Washington, 1). C.
51W onnct1cut Ave.
Wa,hIflPtOO 8. D. C.
"The Curtiss Books" Are Life-long Friends
APPRECIATIONS
"The majority of the forty chapters which comprise this work con-
cern the revolutionary changes through which humanity is now pass-
ing, and their spirtuo.11y erudite contents should do much to allay fears
which tend to flood the mind through lack of knowledge. . . . Of
whatever they treat . . . the authors are nothing if not supremely
helpful. As Christian mystics who work strenuously for the dissemina-
tion of greater spiritual knowledge among all races and creeds, Dr. and
Mrs. Curtiss write with wide knowledge and experience, and their view-
points and suggestions should prove both interesting and encouraging to
those who view with apprehension the religious, social and political
upheavals which would appear to some to be the visible signs of an
angry Deity's vengeance.Occult Review, London.
"I have enjoyed all of your books so much that someho - any other
literature has lost its value for me. I am quite satisfied to read and
enjoy it, as it is so constructive, loving and true."Mrs. S. H. W.,
Indianapolis.
"This is the 18th volume of 'The Curtiss Books' and measures up to
the best teaching put out by the well known authors. . . . The forty
chapters include several chapters dealing with present-day conditions in
the world. . . . The book helps one to better understand from the
spiritual standpoint, the revolutionary changes through which humanity
is now passing."The Aquarian Age.
"There is no need for ignorance in the world today. ... The Inner
Radiance brings into one's consciousness the Why? of all questions,
and their answers I It is food which if earnestly partaken of by the
student will result in good digestion."Mrs. M. E. W., Washington.
"This is the latest of the numerous publications of Dr. and Mrs.
Curtiss . . . the purpose of which is to make religion a practical and
vital aid in the conduct of life. Its membership ranges over some 70
foreign countries and is united only by specific hours of devotion and
intercession."Springfield Union and Republican.
"Permit me to add my tribute of praise to the great volume you no
doubt have received from the production of The Inner Radiance. It
is a fit companion to the other 'Curtiss Books,' and I believe shows
a deeper spzrztuui insight than possibly its predecessors. . . . I will
not rest until I can successfully correlate with the true Inner Radiance.
Mr. H. S., Toronto.
"It is a continuation of the inspiring and practical teachings to be
found in the long series of volumes issued by the authors; which com-
bine a firm adherence and interpretation of our Bible truths with a
deep and extensive knowledge of the esoteric teachings of ancient and
modern times. it is couched in plain, intelligible language, and its aim
is to be of service to all who are on the upward Path, and are in need
of counsel and encouragement in the difficult and crucial period through
which we are passing. . . . Many most abstruse subjects are discussed
with utmost simplicity and frankness."The Rally, London.
The Nineteenth Volume of "The Curtiss Books"
HEALTH HINTS
This is not a large elaborate volume filled with dry statistics and
long-winded discussions and theories about health, but a vitally inter-
esting and practical summary of our teachings on the importance of
health of body, mind and spirit, and how to retain or regain it.
It contains the essence of my many years of medical experience,
together with our highest mystical teachings as to the health of the
inner as well as the outer man. It therefore deals with the effect
upon your health of the thoughts, emotions and psychic influences to
which you respond, as well as the physical factors.
It contains the essence of the most advanced metaphysical teaching
on bathing, breathing, exercise, thought-control, and physical, mental,
psychic, prayer, faith and spiritual healing. All boiled down into
twelve chapters packed with definite laws, rules and directions. All
expressed in simple, non-technical language.
Contains the exact routine to eliminate most chronic disorders, as
well as explicit instructions as to just what to do in acute attacks. This
may save the life of your child, yourself or your family.
Each chapter gives the essence of whole, expensive courses on each
subject. Just what you have long been waiting for. Study carefully
the table of contents and see if you can afford to be without it.
Price $1.50 postpaid.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction. The body an instrument. What is health? Uses of
pain, of prayer. Natural immunity to all diseases, how attained.
Restoration to health.
Chapter I. Mechanical Factors in Health. Structural defects. Spinal
adjustments, bathing, etc.
Chapter II. Breathing. Science of breath. Occult uses of breath, etc.
Chapter III. Constipation. Reasons for. Mechanism of. Cure of.
Chapter IV. Acute Disorders. Appendicitis cured in a few hours,
Chapter V. Food in General. Compatible combinations etc.
Chapter VI. Compatibility of Foods. Rules for combinations.
Chapter VII. Cooking. Best methods. Raw foods.
Chapter VIII. Various Suggestions. Insomnia. Alcohol. Tobacco.
Vaccination. Serums.
Chapter IX. Mental Influences. Origin of thought. Mental health.
Chapter X. Emotions. Effect of joy, happiness, prayer, aspiration.
Chapter XI. Spiritual Influences. Invisible helpers. Healing Prayer.
Chapter XII. Menus and Statistics. How to choose, properly com-
bine, cook and serve foods.
Price $1.50 postpaid.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
Washington, D. C.
5130 ConnectIcut AVe.
Washlnaton 8, 0. C.
APPRECIATIONS
"This book, as the name implies, contains Health Hints for the
purification of the body, mind and emotions, and is one of the best books
we have ever seen on the maintenance of health from all standpoints.
It has invaluable chapters on Breathing, baths of various kinds, a
very comprehensive chapter on Constipation and its cure; helps in
acute diseases, and some valuable advice in regard to foods, with
suggested menus of correct diet. The author is an M. D. as well as
a nationally known teacher and lecturer along spiritual lines, and he
therefore includes most interesting chapters on the mental, emotional
and spiritual influences which play so vital a part in the health of the
individual. The book is one of the most interesting and coin prehensiz'e
of the hundreds we have seen on the subject of health. It is well
indexed, and will be an asset in any family because of its many valuable
suggestions." Editor, The Aquarian Age.
"This is the nineteenth volume of the famous Curtis: Books, which
have afforded such an inexhaustible store of Ancient Wisdom and
Mystic Truth for the past thirty years. The present volume . . . gives
forth the results of his many years medical experience as applied to
the inner, as well as the outer man. Valuable suggestions and direc-
lions are given on Breathing, Food and Exercises, both physical and
spirituaL The last chapter is devoted to Spiritual Influences, and the
various methods of Healing, concluding with an earnest desire that
the following of the teachings given may be a source of purification,
understanding health, harmony and happiness to the reader." Editor,
The Rally, London.
"As an inspiration as well as an instruction to all physical sufferers,
it would be difficult to find advice and hope so evenly balanced with
sound authority, as is found in the recent book Health Hints by Dr. F.
Homer Curtiss. The chapter on Constipation defines, in the opinion of
this writer, the plain, simple and fundamental cause underlying the
common diseases to which the flesh is heir. So important . . . do we
deem this chapter that we quote it in its entirety, with the untinctured
recommendation of the wiwle book as being the best document on the
subject health yet to appear for lay readers. No sufferer or nonsufferer
can read this book in vain." Starr Daily, Author of Love Can Open
Prison Doors, etc.
From New Zealand: "I have received my copy of Health Hints and
I find it invaluable. Am already greatly improved by following its
practical directions. It is a book that should be in every home."
Mrs. I. W.
Two other important books now published by us
THE SEVENTH SEAL
By JEANETTE AGNES (A student of the O.C.M.)
Introduction. Chapters on What shalt we say of matter? Erroneous
concepts and the correct. The Lost Word. Esoteric symbolism of Je-
bovuk. "Things which have been kept secret from the foundation of
the world." Symbolism of the ark, Cherubims, altar, censer. "From
the beginning of the creation God made them male and female."
Search the Scriptures. "To the pure all things are pure." Key to the
interpretation of the Old Testament. Covenant with Levi. "Go in
unto the veil." The Fire of the Lord. Creation among the lower
forms. Masculine and feminine aspects of the Soul. Action of Spirit
on matter. Woman must be allowed the Initiative. Sex not a weakness
of the flesh; not an end in itself. Control of appetites and desires.
A glance at fundamentals. "The coming of the Kingdom of Heaven
on earth must be through the spiritually developed individual." The
Way of Attainment. The Law of Love. The hidden wisdom. Warn-
ings and safe-guards.
"The best exposition of the doctrine of complementary Spiritual
Mates, and that the sex relation is far more than mere animal pro.
creation. Ample biblical quotations are given in confirmation. Spirit-
ualizes the whole subject of sex. In harmony with the Teachings oJ the
0. C. M. and The Curtis: Books." Dr. Curt's:.
"You have put the entire matter on a high and spiritual plane, and
o reader can miss your meaning." Red. J. Herman Randall, New
Iork City. Price 1.00 postpaid.
TOWARDS THE LIGHT
By PRINCESS MARY KARADJA
Founder of The White Cross Union. Author of King Solomon, The
Seven Sacraments, etc.
The fate and redemption of a suicide told in inspiring blank verse.
"A noble message from the Great Beyond." Pall Mall Gazette.
"This poem Is a powerful meditation on the theme: 'Whatsoever a
man sows that shall he reap.'" Aberdeen Daily Journal.
"The story is told in dramatic and moving language. There is a
chain of circumstances powerfully described." Light.
"Will appeal to the general reader as well as to the Metaphysician."
Glasgow Times.
"Her Majesty Queen Alexandra has graciously Intimated her pleasure
in accepting a presentation copy." Light.
King Oscar of Sweden read it aloud at a reception in 1901.
Mr. Stanford of California presented 500 copies to the free libraries
of Australia. Swedish, Danish, Dutch, Finnish and German editions
have appeared in addition to the English edition.
To the Author's knowledge this poem has saved at least ftftees per.
eons from suicide. Price 3.50 Postpaid.
The following are three new volumes of the handy aGems Series."
PRAYERS
of
THE ORDER OF CHRISTIAN MYSTICS
A long felt want finally filled. A collection of inspired and in-
spiring prayers for all occasions and for every need and mood.
Published in small, handy form convenient for the pocket or hand-bag,
and accessible at all times.
By its regular use all aspirants may experience the manifold bless-
ings and joys, the protection and comfort of the spiritual forces
which these mystical prayers actually invoke.
Indexed. New fobrikoid binding, 50 cents; Real leather, $1.00
THE MYSTIC LIFE
An introduction to mysticism and a clear exposition of its meaning,
its scope and its importance in the daily life. Just the thing to place
in the hands of one who is beginning to aspire and think for himself.
Contains chapters on How Mysticism Solves the World's Prob-
lems. The Path of Discipleship. Illumination. The Mystic Christ.
Recommendations for Daily Living. Full information for gathering
small groups of those interested to form study-classes for mutual
help, understanding and fellowship.
Indexed. New fabrikoid binding, 50 cents; Real leather, $1.00
THE LOVE OF RABIACCA
A Tragedy in Five Acts
A thrilling tale of a pre-historic race, recovered psychically by the
Authors.
ACT I. The Battlements of the City.
Aci, II. The Shrine on the Mountainside.
Acv III. The Crypt Beneath the Temple.
Ace IV. The Love Philter.
Ace V. Scene i. The Rite of Naked Sword.
Scene ii. The Flaming Pyre, and the Prophecy.
.Vew fabrikoid binding, 50 cents; Real leather, $1.00
"The Curtiss Books" Blaze the Trail for the New Age
The GEM SERIES of BOOKLETS
Ideal Gifts at Any Season. Handy Pocket Size.
GEMS OF MYSTICISM
Inspiring passages selected from the writings of Dr. and Mrs Curtiss.
Gives best simple insight into Mysticsm.
I. Spiritual Growth. II. Duty. III. 1arma. IV. Reincarnation.
V. The Christ. VI. Masters of Wisdom. VU. Miscellaneous.
"One might wade through the religious philosophizings of every people
and place and not receive the Inspiration one will get out of a ten-
minute perusal of this little book."Baltimore American.
Fifth Edition. Art Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $1.00
THE SOUNDLESS SOUND
A Prose Poem of Devotion and Meditation
"Whatever one's creed, every soul can eat and drink of a book full of
loving helpfulness, that comes as unpretentious as a song-sparrow, as
quiet as a hidden spring, as soft as an odor-laden zephyr, with song, re-
freshment and delight."George Wharton James, Editor "Out West."
Fourth Art Edition. Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $1.00
THE TEMPLE OF SILENCE
The most inspiring treatise on Meditation and entering the Silence.
Practical working directions given.
The Great SilenceEntering the Silencethe Noon Silence Service.
Third Edition. Art Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $1.00
German Edition. Paper 75 cents
THE DIVINE MOTHER
The latest and most beautiful gem of the series.
The Divine Motherthe Bringer Forththe Midnight Prayerthe
Waters of Lifethe Comforter.
Third Edition. Art Paper. 50 Cents; Limp Leathers $1.00
Send for Descriptive Catalog of The CUFtÌSS Books
Order "The Curtisa Books" Direct from
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK Co.
r''1 Washington, D. C
5l3OCOflfleCUt Ave.
wshtflgtOn 8, D. C.
