{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__curtiss___health_hints_for_four-fold_health.pdf","mytitle":"Health Hints For Four-fold Health","mylang":"de"}
HEALTH HINTS FOR
FOUR-FOLD HEALTH
FOR THE PURIFICATION AND HEALTH OF
THE BODY, MIND AND EMOTIONS
B
F. Hoaa Çuanss, B. S., M. D.
CO4OIInCICT of The Universal Religious Foundatiore, Ist.
The Order of Christian Mystics
and
Co-Author of "The Curtiu Books."
Scz1 and Reied Edition
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC
BOOK CO.
Washington, D. C., U. S. A.
1938
Copyright, 1936, by
THZ UXIVUSAL RILIGIOUS POUNDkTION,
INC.
TransIf' and AU Otb Rights
RL
'B
LONDON AGENTS
I.. N. Fowler & Co
7, Ith»eral Arcc Ludgate Clrs,
HEALTH HINTS
INTRODUCTION
We are constantly receiving letters from our
students in all parts of the world asking for our
prayers for their health. But as all of these letters
show that the ill health is the result of wrong habits
of life, diet and thought, we have assembled herein
some simple general rules and practices which both
scientific research and years of experience have
proved essential to good health. Obviously, only
the most essential facts and details can be given,
hence we may disappoint those who place great
emphasis on sonic one phase or fad, important
though it may be for certain ends.
Body an Instrwnent.First, it should be under-
stood that since the body is the instrument through
which the Soul contacts this earth plane, the Soul
is limited in its expression by the kind of body in
which it incarnates, and to its health, perfect devel-
opment, training, and its responsiveness to the guid-
ance of the indwelling SouL
Health.Second, it should be remembered that
1
2 HE/CLTH HINTS
perfect health is 100% functioning of all our organs
and tissues. Lack of health is merely a deficiency
in harmonious bodily functioning. The way to
maintain health is to stop tiiilcing.oursdves sick by
wrong habits of thought, emotion, diet and actions.
Ill health is but a symptom of broken law; the in-
ability of the body to relieve its maladjustments and.
eliminate its poisons. Most so-called treatment is
but the palliation of symptoms without the elimina-
tion of their fundamental causes. Health means not
merely freedom from disease but freedom from
fatigue, froni the blues, and the negative and de-
structive emotions as well.
Third,we.reaptheresultsofallwesow. Ifwe
violate the laws of harmony in Nature, whether they
be physical, mental, psychic or spiritual laws, we
must expect to reap corresponding inharmonious
results.
Pain Necessary.By unpleasant, even painful
symptoms, Nature gives us ample warning month
after month that something is wrong with our habits
of life, and that a change is necessary. Pain is
often n.cssary for self-preservation, through pre-
venting excessive abuse of the body leading to fatal
conditions. If we do not heed the warning, she
does her best until so overcome that she can no
longer carry on. Then we pay attention, but often
only after great damage has been done and much
INTRODUCTION 3
unneccsary suffering has been endured. Pain is
valuable in railing man's attention to wrong condi-
tions which should be remedied, not only by pal-
liatives which merely mask the pain, but by change
of habits.
Prayer.Whlle prayer and affinnations properly
invoked and sincerely believed in and relied upon,
will always give at least temporary relief and help
in time of trouble or suffering, and often miraculous
cures because of great meritorious Karma, yet if
the causes õf that trouble or suffering are not
stopped or eThninated, naturally they will continue
to produce their unhappy results. Therefore, do
not expect psychological or spiritual forces to give
more than temporary relief, or to produce a per-
nianent cure, unless you change your habits of life
in uch a way as to eliminate the causes, be they
mental, emotional, psychic or physical. For instance,
if you have a splinter in your finger there is no use
either denying that it is there, affirming that it will
do no harm or praying to God to remove it for you.
You have to recognize it for what it is and remove
it yourself.
Ixnmunity.As we have said elsewhere: "You
are normally immune to all diseases as long as your
'inner radiance,' your vitality or life-force is up to
normal. But if it becomes depleted in any way
through overwork, exposure, wrong diet, inadequate
4 HEALTH HINTS
elimination, worry, negative thoughts, destructive
emotions, etc.,then your normal rate of vibration
is lowered, and the body then becomes a soil or
'culture medium' in which lower forms of life
germs, bacteria, nematodes, etc.,can grow, and by
their poisonous excretionstoxins--upset the whole
system."1
The obvious thing to do, therefore, is to see that
your vitality is always kept up to normal by remov-
ing all the factors that interfere with or lower it,
whether they be structural, functional, toxic, die-
tetic, mental, emotional or psychic.
Disease.Disease attacks only deficient tissues
whose lowered vitality cannot resist the attack of
other organisms, or fatigue, exposure or nerve ex-
haustion, etc. When not poisoned by the inade-
quate elimination of waste, and when properly
nourished by rightly combined and properly masti-
iated foods, and when controlled by constructive
thoughts and emotions, you should never be tired,
negative, sick, discouraged or subject to the blues.
Normally you should be positive, cheerful, optimis-
tic and hapy, and capable of thinldng clearly, niak-
injyour decisions quickly, full of ambition and
perseverance. All of these are the normal attributes
of health.
Restoration.All diseases, including angina, ane-
1See lesson Pen, Not, Curtiss. Send for free py.
INTRODUCTION 5
mia, goitre, ulcers, tuberculosis, skin, kidney, liver,
nervous diseases, etc., are but the end results of
broken laws, whether of physical, chemical or mental
unbalance, which permits them to manifest. They
are all subject to restoration to normal through the
elimination of their causes and the elimination of
their effects. Since the cells die daily and hourly,
we are reborn cell by cell daily, hence can build in
new and disease-resisting cells until our entire body
is made over in the image of the ideals we hold,
and with the materials we furnish it through prop-
erly selected and properly combined foods.
Body Poisons.The body usually expels violent
poisons, but wrong food combinations produce mild
poisons which accumulate and produce toxemia.
Four-Fold Health.We wish to emphasize that
perfect health must be four-fold, i.e., physical, men-
tal, emotional and spiritual. Treatment of any one.
phase alone is not sufficient for a permanent curé
Do not expect that treatment on any one plane will
produce perfect results. The wrong habits of life
on all four planes which are producing inharmony
must be changed crc the causes will cease producing
their unhappy effects.
CHAPTER I
MECHANICAL FACTORS IN HEALTH
Structural Defects.Very few bodies are perfect
in all their structural parts and functions. Many
bodily ailments are due to organs or bones being out
of pla or sagging, often due to lack of tone be-
cause their nerve or blood supply is being interfered
with. Usually this is due to slight displacements
of the bones of the spine which press upon the'
nerves which come out from the spinal cord between
them. For instance, sciatica is nearly always due to
pressure on one of the nerve trunks forming the
great sciatic nerve, after it branches off the spinal
bord and passes between the bones of the spine. Also
appendicitis is 'almost instantly relieved by the ad-
justment of the second lumbar vertebra, etc. Shni-.
lar conditions of slight abnormal pressure occur
frequently at the base of the brain, in the neck and
anywhere else along the spine.
Adjustments.Hence, a proper adjustment re-
lieves the congestion and its symptoms almost im-
mediately. The entire spine should be examined
and adjusted by a chiropractor, osteopath, naturo-
6
MECHANICAL FACTORS IN HEALTH 7
path or other properly trained practitioner. Many
of the younger and better trained practitioners pro-
tect you from wrong diagnosis by using the X-ray,
neurocalometer and several other instruments to
determine the exact condition before making the ad-
justments. As long as there is physical interference
with the nerve and blood supply of the organs,
nerves, endocrine glands, the brain or other struc-
tures, you cannot expect them to function normally.
And if the glands do not function normally they
produce deficient and abnormal products which are
often irritating if not actually poisonous, and hence
upset the entire body chemistry and fun&ioning.
Neitherznind nor medicine can be curative if-the
cause is a mechanical one. The displacement must
bè corrected first.
Recurrence.When not due to accidents, twists,
strains, etc., most of these displacements are due to
the irregular pull of muscular spasms, hence tend to
recur until the cause of the irritated nerves is re-
moved. Usually this is an acid or toxic condition
which is relieved and only really cured, not by the
adjustment, but by detoxication and proper diet.
Need for Exercise..The body is a living organ-.
ism which needs proper exercise of all its functions
if they are to work together properly. Persons
whose livelihood does not require much muscular
exertion in the open air cannot properly oxidize
8 HEALTH HINTS
much of their food without exercise, and without
this all their functions tend to stagnate.
Object of Exercise.The primary aim of exer-
cise is not merely to strengthen the muscles used, but
to stimulate the circulation, respiration and elimina-
tion. The increased activity quickens the heart beat,
strengthens the heart muscle and flushes all the
tissues with freshly aerated blood. The increased
respiration draws more air into the lungs, thus en-
abling the blood to carry more oxygen to the tissues
and produce heat and energy. It also purifies the
blood by enabling it to throw off more gaseous waste
products. The increased heat induces perspiration
and thus increases elimination through the skin.
Exercise also stimulates elimination through the
bowels and kidneys, and tones up the whole body.
Exercise also tends to correct slight dislocations of
spine or other joints, and relaxes undue tension or
contractioii of muscles, thus giving equalization and
poise. Persons who are weakened by illness, malig-
nant diseases, tumors, ruptures and serious displace-
ments should not exercise except under specialized
directions. Do not take difficult or excessive exer-
cise on a full stomach.
Outdoor Exercise.One of the best of general
exercises is to take a brisk walk of at least a mile
or two in the open air each day. This may be taken
to and from work, or at least part way. It should
MECHANICAL FACTORS IN HEALTH 9
be brisk enough to produce a pleasing feeling of
exertion and quickened pulse and respiration, but
not far enough to produce fatigue. Swimming and
games are also excellent exercises.
Rhythmic Wa1Ling.Walldng may be combined
with mental and spiritual forces by the following
exercise: As you stride along, rhythmically repeat
some phrase which expresses your realization or
need. For instance, inhale while you take four
strides, mentally repeating, "I breathe in health,"
one word with each stride. During the next four
strides exhale and repeat, "I breathe out waste," or
"I am made pure." Repeat the phrase for some time
during your walk. Next day take another phrase
if desired, such as, "I breathe in love," during the
inhalation, and "I breathe out blessing," on the ex-
halation.
Indoor Exercises.The outdoor work may be
supplemented by indoor exercises which involve
bending, twisting and stretching at the waist, so
that alternate pressure and stretching is brought
upon the internal organs to squeeze out stagnant
blood and suck in a fresh supply. This overcomes
the congestion that occurs from Jack of exercise,
stimulates peristalsis, helps overcome constipation,
etc. Suchexercisescanbefoundinanygoodbook
or magazine on health or physical exercise, although
some sample exercises are given herewith. The best
10 HEALTH' HINTS
time for indoor exercise is on rising and just before
retiring.
Sample exercises.Repeat each of the following
exercises seven times for the first week, then in-
crease one more time each day until the amount
desired is reached. Stop each time before becom-.
ing tired.
Swing the arms upward overhead, elbows
straight. Bend forward and reach as far down to
the toes as possible without bending the knees. Then
swing arms back overhead. Do not bend back back-
ward, but stretch straight upward and repeat.
With arms straight overhead, fingers locked,
twist body to right, bend and try to touch the right
anide. Then stretch upward, twist to left and try to
touch the left ankle.
With arms out shoulder high, twist body to
right as far as possible. Twist back to front, stop
andstretch. Then twist to left.
With feet well spread and hands clasped over
left shoulder, swing arms well down between the
legs hard, as though chopping a block of wood.
Swing the bands upward and outward diagonally
to the right and up to the right shoulder. Repeat
the downward swing and up on to left shoulder.
Lie flat on the back. Bend the knees up to
the chest and give them a vigorous squeeze with the
arms, and return to position.
it
i't
;1.i.
olti
jea
aS
t3x:?eat
to
tic
at
°
c.eS
cS
,
,
g1C
ct
c%
jie
a
CO°
tY
%y
igo1OL1S'
8%Ot
0wc
°
°
act'
tl1at0tl
%0aIC
e
fl
1fl
t05C
'i°
Vij3tt
coo
aCC,
e
a'1
afl
b061
b
4A
tO
ØO3flt
cctt
aAO1
t
cO0t0
5
a.
12 HEALTH HINTS
scrubbing with soap will not be required more than
once or twice a week.
Tonic Bath.This bath cools down and soothes
the nerves and parts involved, retards fermentation
and gas formation, and stimulates elimination.
Draw three or four inches of cool water in the
ordinary bath tub. Sit doztm, with the back
leaning against a turkish towel hung over the slant-
ing end of the tub. Keep the knees bent and
spread so only the feet, seat and sexual organs will
be in the water. Dash the water over the abdomen
and rub it vigorously, also the sides and back as far
as you can reach. Then lower the legs and dash
the water over the upper part of the body. Step out
of the tub and dry by rubbing vigorously with the
bare hands only.2
Sun and Air BathsThe value of frequent ex-
posure of the skin to the air and sun is beyond the
experimental stage in modern medicine Aside from
the increased metabolism and all the effects of chemi-
cal and physiological action of the actinic, infra-red
and ultra-violet rays of the sun, exposure to light
and air is stimulating to the mentally depressed, to
the neurotic, the anemic and those suffering from
melancholia, worry, lassitude and insomnia. It not
only increases bodily tone and energy, but mental
responses are brisker and mental activities are more
'OYSIIOdWIISkT, Bivughtan, 14S.
MECHANICAL FACTORS IN HEALTH 13
pronounced. Daily exposure of from five minutes
at first may be gradually increased to several hours.
NudismAll the beneficial therapeutic effects,
and also all that is essential in the physical and
mental control of the passions, as advocated by the
nudists, can be attained by familiarity with the
sight of the exposed body while clad only in short
trunks, such as men wear at most of the bathing
beaches, but without the exposure of the sex organs.
themselves. Hence there is no adequate excuse for
catering to exhibitionism through complete nudism.
CHAPTER II
BREATHING
BreafMng..There is a definite science of the
breath into the technique of which we cannot entei
in this short treatise. Such technical exercises
should not be taken except under the personal guid-
ance of a qualified teacher. Hence we will give only
some simple fundamentals. The breathing exercise
recommended while walking is given chiefly for its
physical effect, that is, increasing the intake of oxy-
gen and expelling as much of the volatile wastes
(gases) as possible. In sedentary work only about
10% oftheairinthelungsisexpelledinbreathing,
the rest being residual or dead air. Hence the neces-
sity for deep breathing for thplete aeration of the
blood, as it takes at least ten full breaths to clear
the lungs of the old stagnant, poison-laden air.
Uses of the Breath._Nerer consciously use the
breath without holding some constructive thought
or idea; for what we hold in mind at that time is
stamped upon the electrons of each cell. Happy,
positive and constructive thoughts and emotions cx-
pand and illumine the electrons, while negative or
14
BREATHING 15
destructive thoughts and emotions shrink and deaden
them and retard or even pervert their proper func-
tioning.
Changing the Rhythm.To turn the normally
unconscious function of breathing into a consciously
directed function for definite ends, its rhythm must
be altered. Breathing can be used to correlate mind
and beIy. because it alters th, circulation and brings
more oxygenated blood to the brain. Slowing the
rhythm of the breath slows the circulation to the
brain and so e2lms both thoughts and emotions, and
produces a quiet, calm mood, like pouring oil on
troubled waters. Therefore, when mentally or emo
tionally excited, disturbed, worried or under a ten-
sion, sit down and relax all tension of body and take
the following exercise.
Such frequent deliberate relaxation is a potent
safeguard against fatigue and worry.
The Calming Breath.Assume the posture for
meditation as follows:
Sitinasquietaplaceaspossiblewhereyoucanbe
free from interruption. Sit on a straight-backed chair,
always in the same place and chair, facing the East.
in the morning and the North in the evening. Allow
the-hands to rest comfortably on the thighs with the
palms up and with the thumbs touching the tips of
the first fingers.
Have the feet flat on the floor a few inches apart.
16 HEALTH HINTS
Sit with the head erect, the chin in and the spine
straight. Do not let the back touch the chair. The
position is exactly that in which the Egyptian statues
are seated. The position should not be stiff or rigid,
but comfortably erect and well poised and with the
clothing loose.
Inhale slowly and quietly through both nostrils
a comfortably deep, steady breath, with the mouth
closed. First fill out the abdomen and then slowly
fill up the lungs comfortably full, yet without ten..
sion or straining.
Be careful that the muscles of the neck and throat
are not tense or rigid. To be sure of this, turn and
bend the head from side to side for a moment to
remove all strain and rigidity.
Pulse Rate.TJse your normal pulse-rate to give
your rhythm. Inhale quietly for 6, 8 or 10 heart-
beats. Hold the breath for half the number of in-
take counts-3, 4 or 5then completely empty the
lungs during the same number of counts as used
during the intake. Hold the breath out and the
lungs empty for half the exÌialation counts, then
slowly and rhythmically begin to inhale again. After
you have learned your rhythm, you will not need to
distract your attention from the object of the breath
by counting. When you exhale, relax completcl3t
and let go all tension of body and mind.
What to Think.As we have said elsewhere:
BREATHING 17
"During the inhalation hold the thought that you
are breathing in the forces of love, strength, cour-
age and purity or any other virtue you desire; that
during the pause they are filling you full to overflow-
ing,"1 and that during the outbreathing you are
breathing out all your troubles, anxieties and cares,
and dissipating them like exhaust steam. Repeat
this from seven to fifteen times or until you feel re-
laxed and calm. At any time of day or night when
you find yourself hurried, worried or under a nerv-
ous strain, sit down quietly and practice this relax-
ation and quietness. The power of this simple
exercise to calm and restore the normal rhythm to
both body and mind will scarcely be believed by
those who have not tried it. It alone can calm an
agitated mind or cheer a sad heart and restore o
to peace and harmony with the world.
The Cleincing Breath.Inhale slowly your reg-
ular number of counts. Hold the breath for half
that number of counts and then exhale it in seven
short expuisive puffs, with the lips puckered as if
about to whistle. As you exhale, relax your erect po-
sition, allowing the lungs to deflate and collapse,
while the body slumps forward in complete relaxa-
tion as the last bit of breath is exhaled. Th& raise
the body to its erect posture again and repeat.
Think.During the inhalation, hold the thought
1TheVoweofIzuCwtiu,35L
18 HEALTH HINTS
that.you are drawing in Divine Love, Tniiite Life,
Perfection and Spiritual Power which shall fill your
aura to overflowing and wash out, and also protect
you, from all inharmony or danger, and also conquer
all obstades. This breath starts all the vital energies
into activity all over the body to purify it by dissolv-
ing and washing out all poisonous waste materials.
Therefore, hold the thought of its purifying and up-
liftingyou in bodyas well as mmmd.
With each outward puff hold the thought that
you are expelling all mental irritations, inharmonies,
impurities and imperfections that you have recog-
nized during your period of self-examination the
night before, together with anything disagreeable
that you may have dreamed about or experienced
during the night
Since this exercise increases the liuninfion of
waste materials, quite naturally one of its first effects
will be to stir up the wastes in your body which
have been allowed to accumulate more or less. Hence
you should be especially careiul to use proper food
combinations, plenty of green vegetables, especially
natural laxatives,1 etc., also a glass of water or fruit
juices every three hours or so between meals during
the day in order to stimulate and facilitate ditnin2-
tion. Repeat this Cleansing Breath seven times or
until you feel cleansed and purified. If you feel
dizzy, stop and rest awhile.
2See page 26-7.
BREATHING 19
Prana.But there are other life-forces in the
air besides the oxygen. There is the vital life-force
of the ethers which is called rana. This force can
be consciously drawn in, absorbed and used to charge
the body with life-force or vitality so that it will
prevent fatigue, resist disease, endure extremes of
heat and cold and change the tone of your thoughts
and emotions, and hence of your bodily reactions.
Vitalizing Breath.Whenever tired, debilitated,
discouraged, weak or negative, you can charge your
body with the vital, energizing life-force of prana
by taking the following exercise. Make a habit of
doing this every morning after your bath, breathing
and prayers, whether you feel that you need it
especially or not.
Stand facing the East, in the sunlight if possible.
Hold the arms forward shoulder high, with the
palms facing outward toward the Sun. Hold the
head level, but turn the eyes upward as though you
were looking through your eyebrows. This brings
the proper tension on the optic nerve. As you slowly
inhale your normal number of counts, draw the
bands straight back until they are opposite the sides
of the shoulders, but with the, palms still facing
forward. Have the shoulder blades touching in the
back
ThinkAs you inhale, hold the thought that you
are drawing in the currents of Divine Life (prana)
20 HEALTH HINTS
through the center between the eyebrows (Adjna)
toward which you are looking. See it pouring in as a
stream of radiant white light which fills your body
full to overflowing. Hold the breath half the num-
ber of inhalation counts, and as you exhale and re-
lax, gently flood the entire body with its life-giving
radiance and warmth. Repeat seven times the first
week, then increase one time each day until twenty-
one is reached. This will so charge your body with
dynamic life-force and magnetism that you will be
able to meet all the conditions and problems of the
day with a positive attitude and under the guidance
of the Christ within. Realize that your elimination,
and the inflow of the spiritual forces, makes the body
more resistant to all forms of inharmony, weariness,
sickness and disease. For no disease can attack a
body that is normal in tone and radiating positive
vitality. Try it and prove it, then use it daily.
Transmuting Breath.If troubled with exces-
sive congestion of the sex centers, or thoughts there-
of, remember that all glands are stimulated by
thought as well as contact, just as your mouth wa-
ters at the thought of food. To maintain control,
deliberately turn your thoughts to other things or
perform some kind of creative work with hands or
mind. Also you may sit facing the East and use the
following Prayer to the Divine Mother.
BREATHING 21
Prayer.O Divine Mother! illumine me with
Divine Wisdom, Vivify me with Divine Life and
purify me with Divine Love, that in all I think and
say and do Imay be more and more Thy child.3
Then as you inhale rhytlunically draw the forces
from the base of the spine and surrounding region
up through the central canal of the spinal cord to
the center of the brain (Sahasrara). Hold them
there during the pause, and exhale them through
the center in the forehead (Adjna). Repeating this
from seven to twenty-one times, or more if neces-
sary, will lift up the forces and give quick relief
and a sense of lightness, purity and power.
Spiritnnlb!ing Breath.When in special need of
spiritual power, use the following
Prayer for Realization.O Eternal Being! Thou
ever Living One! Thou loving I Am Presence
whose I Am and whom I serve! Thou art anchored
in me and I in Thee. Thou art mine and I am
Thine. Thou art my eternal pattern. Make me
more and more like Thee.
Then breathe rhythmically. As you inhale draw
down a ray of brilliant white light from your radiant
I Am Presence, or Higher Self, through the top
of the head (Sabasrara). Hold it in the center of
3Fcr further L..1. see Tue Message of Aquaria, Curtis,,
22 HEALTH HINTS
your brain during the pause, and as you exhale
focus it in your heart until it becomes a glowing
ball of di7zling white light whose radiance fills
your whole body. Repeat seven to twenty-one times
or until thoroughly charged with the warm glow of
the spiritual fire.
ChAPTER III
CONSTIPATION
Auto-toxemia.---One vitally important and al-
most universal factor in ill health i constipation.
This permits continuous absorption of poisons from
the intestines and produces auto-toxemia which is the
greatest underlying cause of all diseases.
Peristi1c...As the undigested rPninrnts of the
food, such as all cellulose or the structural fibers of
vegetables, called roughage, pass along the intes-
tines, all the digestible elements and fluids are con-
tinually being alsorbed. But if the bowel movement
called peristalsisis sluggish, the bacteria nor-
mally present to help disintegrate the food are re-
inforced by putrifying bacteria, and the sluggish
movement of the debris, gives the latter time to
multiply and produce their poisonous toxines and
gasesindol, skatol, etc
Putrifaction.Unless these gaseous products and
toxines are promptly pliminated, they are absorbed
by the blood and thus poison the entire system, often
in such quantity that they are exhaled as bad odors
so-called halitõsisthrough the breath, but only
23
CONSTIPATION 25
particularly of the leafy greens such as spinach, kale,
beet and turnip tops, dandelion, etc., as well as
celery, cabbage, broccoli, sauerkraut, parsnips,
squash, etc. Where this bulk is insufficient it can be
supplied by the use of substitutes of little or no food
'value, but which swell and give great bullç such as
the sea-weed, agar, Irish moss, flax or psyllium seed
or preparations thereof such as Konsyl, Kondremul,
etc. But these adjuvants should be taken either with,
or immediately after the meal so they will mix with
remnants of the food and help pass it along, other-
wise they may form lumps by themselves and thus
cause obstruction.
Flulds.Another important factor is sufficient
fluids. All foods must be digested into a fluid state
before they can be absorbed into the blood which
carries them to the tissues. This requires consider-
able water or other fluids. While the digestive
juices should not be unduly diluted during meals,
at least one cup of soup or other fluid should be
taken with or after each meal. But each mouthful
of food should be thoroughly chewed to a thin cream
and not be washed down with drink Since the
fluids are rapidly absorbed during the first two hours
after a meal, there is usually left in the stomach a
residue which is too thick to be absorbed without.
dilution. Therefore, always take a glass of water an
hour and a half to two hours after each meal.
26 HEALTH HINTS
B. 0Since the body is two-thirds water by
weight, and is constantly losing it by excretion and
evaporation, unless it is frequently replenished the
perspiration becomes odorouscommonly called
or body odorthe urine becomes scanty,
concentrated and often irritating. If water is not
furnished freely, it will be absorbed from the colon,
along with its acids and toxins, leaving the bowels
dry and constipated. Therefore, make a regular
practice of drinking a glass of water or fruit or
vegetable juice every three hours. Always stop in
mid-morning and mid-afternoon for your drink.
Thinned Blood.The water is absorbed directly
into the blood, so that within a half hour after drink-
ing you have a half pint more blood. it is therefore
that much thinner and more fluid, and hence is more
able to wash out the waste products from the tissues
and eIininte them. As you sip thewater, hold the
mental picture of its flowing right through you,
washing out both your tissues and your bowels.
The excessive drinking-16 to 24 glassesadvo-
cated by some, only stimulates rapld excretion and
puts an unnecessary strain on the kidneys, but at
least ax to eight glasses of d&.should be taken
daily.
Ltive Food&In addition to the beneficial re-
sults of both bulk and fluids, certain foods chemically
stimulate the peristaltic action of the bowels and so
CONSTIPATION 27
push the debris along more rapidly. Among such
foods are most fresh fruits, particularly figs, primes,1
grapes, cherries, etc. Among the vegetables, all the
leafy or salad veéetables, and onions, are also laxa-
tive. On the other hand, cheese and berries, particu-
lafy blackberries, are constipating. In fact an
old-time remedy for diarrhoea is blackberries or a
tea made from their dfied leaves. But diarrhoea
should not be checked until after a large dose of
Pluto Water or salts has been taken to sweep out
the irritating cause.
HabitAnother helpful factor is habit Always
go to the stool as soon as the impulse comes. If
put off over a few minutes the impulse may pass
by and disappear for hours, thus allowing accu-
mulation and absorption to take place. Never neg-
lea a call of Nature. Excuse yourself and go at
once. Let other things wait This is vitally fin-
portant if you ever expect to be cured..
Train the Subconscious.Unless you have two
or more regular, soft and effortless evacuations each
day, you are constipated.
Therefore, train the subconscious mind to be ready
to evacuate regularly at certain times of day. Go
regularly at those times and do the best you can
without undue straining, until the habit is estab-
1Use Sa Clara primes if possible1 as they arc sald to be
less aad-f&auu
ao
o;;;
;los
o;
o03
:
-
-
1d'
-
ft
o(
1Z
"1iü
01
I
C
1°
%%1
s0%°3
_.t1%%
-
-
--
m'
I
.oti9
i3P
CONSTIPATION 29
ence, resembling a tumor, and containing as much
as two gallons of festering filth. The high enema
should be continued until no more solids come away.
Purgaties.A colon that is constantly whipped
into action by some irritating drug sooner or later
becomes torpid and insensitive to the expulsion
stimulus of its normal contents and so acquires a
functional paralysis. The more irritating or "active"
the drug, the more profound the exhaustion of the
sensitivity ultimately becomes.
Spastic Colon.On the other band, the continued
use of purgatives may be so irritating as to cause
"spastic colon," in which condition the bowel is in
a state of more or less constant contraction. This
lessens the size and motility of the bowel and adds
to the constipation.
High Colonic.Since in all diseased conditions
there is both acidosis and auto-toxemia, and espe-
cially when masses have accumulated, a special type
of enema, called a "high colonic," is required. This
is needed, not merely to flush out the lower rectum,
but must contain enough water to fill the entire
colondescending, transverse, ascendingway over
to the appendix on the lower righi side of the abdo-
men. This large amount of water is needed gradu-
ally to dissolve the accumulated masses from which
so much toxic absorption has been continually taking
place, and wash them out For when the bowel
30 HEALTH HINTS
has been greatly stretched by accumulations it can-
not empty itself.
Prevent Absorption.To prevent absorption
from the toxins dissolved by the high coloni; at least
two to four glasses of water, preferably hot for its
rg.çjv, should be drunk befõ "taking the
colonic. Otherwise, reactions sdch as headache,
dizziness, etc., may follOw the enema.
Method.Wbile the lower rectum may be washed
out while in a sitting posture, the posture used for
the high colonic is of great importance. The water
should always flow downward or it cannot get by
the kinks caused by the accumulations or the sag-
ging organs. First wash out the rectum and then
take a
Knee-Chest Position.Get down on your knees
on a rug, keeping the hips high and touching the
rug with ybur left shouldd and side of face, and
leaving your right hand free to manipulate the tube.
If too weak for this, lie on the left side or on the
back with the hips considerably elevated.
Preparation.Then prepare 2 to 3 quarts of
water as hot (105° to 106°) as the hand can ____
in comfortably, tO which a faspoonfuÍof soda has
been added. The water rapidly puts the poiso?is .in
solution and unless the soda is used they may be
absorbed sufficiently to cause headache, tli-,4ness or
other unpleasant symptoms. The drinking before-
hand and the soda prevent tbi.
CONSTIPATION 31
Injection.Empty The rectum by injecting about
a pint and letting it out. Then inject slowly as much
as you can hold comfortably without a .rpann of
ejection, then massage the bowels upward on the
left side then let in more water and massage across
the stomach and down on the right side until you
can feel the water reach down to the appendix If
a spasm of expulsion occurs, as soon as you feel it
coming on, shut off the water and bold it in tight
until the spasm passes away without ejecting any
water. Then turn on the water again until you
have taken as much as can be absorbed without
pain.
Expulsion.The expulsion will come in mild
spasms or waves, but it may take fifteen or twenty
minutes for the water that was way over to the
appendix to come down, so have patience and wait
without straining.1 When you are sure the last has
come away, then inject another quart of cool water
(65° to 700) to tone up the muscles of the bowel
so they will learn to work nonnally without depend-
ing upon the enema or colonic for natural evacuation.
Frequency.Take this high colonic every night
for a week or ten days until your toxic symptoms dis-
appear and you are sure all the old accumulations
have been softened up and eliminated. After that d
not miss one at least once or twice a week for the rest'
of your life. You will notice a distinct improve-
1Walldng about will help bring on the expulsion.
32 HEALTH HINTS
mait in your mental and emotional reactions, as
well as in your physical condition, as soon as you
The Purge.Since all acute and chronic dis-
orders have as their background and basic causc-
when not mechanical or due to deformitya long -
continued accumulation of acids and toxins, the cells
of all the tissues of the body are loaded with those
negative and debilitating substances. "The object
of the purge is not merely to move the bowels and
get rid of the solid wastes, but to wash from the
body its acid-laden fluids: serum from the blood,
lymph from the tissues, and accumulated toxines
from the intestines. The thirst reulting from
this dehydration will make the free use of fruit
juices very gratifying.2 Thus an alkaline or base-
forming source of supply is Jormed to replenish its
deficient stores; and the condition of the body im-
mediately is one of lowered acidity, or rather a
heightened alkalinityhence the feeling of relief
that usually follows this rather drastic purging."3
Dose.On arising take three Seidlitz powders
20 minutes apart the first day, two the second day
and one the third day. Fast from everything but
fruit juicesunsweetened orange, lemon or grape-
fruit, or alternated with grape or pineapple juice if
desiredduring the purge. Take an enema .nightly.
2While undergoing a purge or when fasting, do not swallow
any saliva, as it carries off many poisons.
54 New Health Era, Hay, 142-3.
CONSTIPATION 33
Crisis.This stirs up so much of the stored-up
acid and toxines - that reactionary symptoms called
a "crisi" may be experienced while they are being
eliminated in such great quantities. This may in-
dude headache, dizziness, nausea, even skin eruptions
and symptoms of the major diseases you have had
even years ago a trace of which has been left in
your system. So be faithful in keeping up the three
day purge until completed.
Return to DietThe return to normal diet
should be gradual. Keep on with nothing but fruit
juices until hunger'returns, as it will when the detoxi-
cation is sufficiently complete, even if you eat no
solid food for a week or two.
The Hay plan is as follows: The first two days
afterward eat only broth,1 salad with dressing and
a fruit for dessert. For the next three dayr use broth,
salad, one cooked vegetable, and a fruit dessert. For
the main meal for the next week, broth, salad, two
cooked vegetables, fruit dessert. The next two weeks,
broth, two cooked vegetables, bacon if desired, fruit
dessert. Then you may have the first starch meal
of broth, vegetable salad, two cooked vegetables,
whole baked potato and a sweet dessert. (No acid
in dressing or dessert, as this is a starch meal.)
After this you can return to full diet as below of
broth or soup, salad (fruit or vegetables), two
cooked vegetables, meat, fish, eggs, or any other
1The word broth always refers to vegetable broth.
34 HEALTH HINTS
protein, fruit or acid dessert After the first two
days you may have milk (sweet buttermilk or dab-
ber) with your fruit juice for breakfast.
FuliDiet.After returning to full diet, plan four
protein and three starch meals per week, selecting
foods that will give you 80% alk2line forming food
and 20% or less acid-forming, the proportion re-
quired to keep your body in health.3
As the skin is also 1hnin2ting freely during the
purge, at least a sponge bath should be +kn daily
or oftener. A one day purge and fast should be
taken at least on a month.
Habit Forniing."Patients are sometimes cau-
tioned by medical doctors to avoid enemas lest a
habitbeformed. Butifitisahabit,itisadánly
one and conducive to health and normality. People
have used the enema daily formore than fifty years,
and it has kept them young, active and free from
disease."4 Constipation, also an over-full bladder,
stimulate excessive sex desires by their congestion
of the surrounding pelvic region.
Outgròwing Its Use.With proper food combi-
nations, fluids and exercise, when once regulated,
there will be no constipation, hence no need for the
enema, only the weekly high colonic.
niintion.If the measures recommended
herein do not relieve the condition, examination
3&e page 109. -
4IIow to Live Magazine, April 1936 18.
CONSTIPATION 35
should be made for strictures, adhesions, khilcs,
chronic contractions, foreign bodies or tumors which
may be mechanically obstructing the bowels.
Mosquito Bites.Mosquito, flea bites and even
bee and nettle stings, also poison ivy, cause little
swelling, itching or inconvenience if you are not acid
or toxic.
Odors.To neutralize odors in the bathroom or
elsewhere, roll up a sheet of toilet or other paper
into a tight taper and light it. As it burns wave
it slowly through the air in all parts of the room
and the odors will be neutralized. Drop the end of
the taper into the toilet before it burns your fingers.
The Use of Salis.Since acidosjs and toxemia
are present to some extent in all diseased conditions,
their elimination is the first step toward cure. There-
fore, in practically all casesexcept appendicitis,
stomach or intestinal ulcers, cancer, etc.the saline
purge is of primary importance and should be the
first thing to start. Follow the directions given on
pages 32 and 33 ezactly and persistently.
Ga.c-fornwtionDo not be discouraged if gas-
formation continues for some time while the di-
gestive system is being re-educated. If it persists,
try chopping the vegetables very fine or making a
purée of them, so as to decrease the irritation of too
coarse particles.
CHAPTER IV
ACUTE DISEASES
Colds.Dr. Hay tells us that: "Colds are not
caught. They are accumulated with the feet under
the table, and in no other way."1 Colds, sinusitis,
tonsillitis, fevers and diseases of the respiratory tract
follow overeating and toxic absorption from the
bowels. Toxines impair the nourishment of all
tissues, devitali7ing especially the mucous membranes
through which they are excret d, and thus allowing
bacteria to invade the tissues and the system.
Acute DiseasesAt the first sign of lassitude,
headache, sore throat, cold, running nose, cough,
fever, stomach or bowel trouble, stop eating and
begin a purge. The old adage, "If you feed a cold,
you'll have a fever to starve," is a well known fact.
The main idea is to stop food and eliminate in every
way, through bowels, kidneys and skin. Inunedi-
ately take a generous dose of the purge, then take
a high enema every three hours while awake the
first day, even if, and especially if, the patient is in
1Th. New Health Bra, Hay. 148.
36
38 - HEALTH HINTS
until returning hunger calls for food, even if the
fast lasts a week or two. Begin feeding as directed
after the purge on page 33.
Infantile Paralysis.Attacks of flu or of infan-
tile paralysis treated in this way and without medica-
tion will eldom have any or at least ynly temporary
paralysiL
Appendicitis.Attacics of appendicitis should
NOT be given a purge or anything at all by mouth,
not even water. Put an ice bag over the appendix
and take a high enema every two hours. Usually
unloading the bowel relieves the pain and causes the
temperature to drop within a half hour, and the
acute attack is over within two hours. Most patients
are up and often at work the next day. Dr. Hay
has treated over five hundred cases this way without
a single death, while the death rate from operation
is seldom less than 30% to 40%.
Ruptured.Even when the appendix is ruptured,
the inflammatory adhesions thrown out by the bowel
will wall in the pus and keep it from causing a
general peritonitis until the mass ruptures into the
bowel and is washed out by the daily enema. Of
course, this is heresy from a surgical standpoint
but the proof of its soundness is the results. What
surgeon can match Dr. Hay's record of over five
hundred cases and thirty ruptured appendices with-
out a single death? Acute attacks of other diseases
ACUTE DISEASES 39
yield corresponding results if the above mentioned
procedure is faithfully followed, recovery taking
place even before the trouble is sufficiently estab-
lihed to be diagnosed.
Operations."To lose the tonsils or appendix is
to place the body under a permanent handicap that
will interfere with function in some or many ways
so long as you live.
"Çonstipation follows the removal phe appendix
s effect follows cause; also the absence of tonsils
opens the way for all sorts of infection later on."
Abscesses."Internal abscesses, inflaiiunations,
infiltrations, adhesions, have disappeared with mo-
úttonous regularity when the whole man was sub-
jected to radical detoxication and dietary correction..-
No case of duodenal ulcer has failed to entirely
recover. V
'Pneumonia, eryiipelas, typhoid fever, influenza,
acute arthritis, colitis, hay fever, all subside when
the body is fairly detoxicated and the diet so cor-
rected as to stop this eccessive formation of the
acid- en products'
TIIe New Heats!. Era, Hay, 197. See also page 54.
'TheNewHÓalthEÑ,Hay, 198, 144, 142.
CHAPTER V
-S
FOOD IN GENERAL
IntemperanceIntemperance in eating probably
causes more unnecessary suffering than intemper-
ance in drink. Excessive food overwhelms the sys-
tem with imperfectly oxidlized and toxic products.
Faulty diet and improper elimination are prob-
ably the most prolific physiological causes of lack
of health, hence we will go into some detail con-
cerning them.
Food.While individual idiosyncracies vary
widelyeven bringing over pet tastes or instinctive
aversions and habits from past livesnevertheless
there are certain mechanical and chemical laws
which must be observed if the complex mixture of
the chemical products which result from digestion
are to be blended compatibly with eah other and
not produce abnormal products whose harmful re-
stilts are grouped under the general term of acidosis.
Recent researches and laboratory tests have proved
the possibility of indefinitely prolonging life through
complying with the laws of life. Therefore1 there
is no reason for early death (barring accident) ex-
.40
FOOD IÑ GENERAL 41
cept through ignorance of and failure to conform
to the laws of hygiene, scientific dietetics and right
tliinlcing.
Him'rn Classes.Hindu philosophy classifies
hnm2n beings into three types, the ignorant (Ta-
,nas*), the passionate (Rajasic) and the spiritual
(Sativic). The ignorant, who function largely on
the plane of gross animil existence are stupid and
have little power of discrimination between that
which is desirable and undesirabic. Such tend to
indiscriminate eating without regard to clnliness
or puritystal; partly putrid, and unclean foods
and gluttony, and are subject to all ,n2nner of mor-
bid appetites, thoughts and destructive emotions.
The passionate type craves animal foods, and foods
that are pungent bitter, saline, sour, overhot, ice-
cold, spicy, etc. The spiritual (Sattvic) type possess
an innate discrimination in everything pertaining to
their lives, not only thoughts and emotions, but also
foods, naturally tending to choose that which is pure
and healthful and conducive to peace, harmony and
health. But even this class often errs through igno-
rance of the fundamental chemical laws which are
presented herewith.'
Spiritual Seekers.Those who are consciously
seeking their spiritual unfoldment should choose
largely the Sattvic foods, or combinations of well
1HindU Dwkttcs, Sri Sukul, 1.
42 HEALTH HINTS
chosen Rajasic foods, avoiding the ramasic as much
as possible. While spiritual unfoldment does not
come from the stomach, but from the heart, never-
theless, what and how you eat does affect your
mental and emotional states, hence should be wisely
planned. Thus the craving for particular kinds of
food. depends upon the stage of evolution of the
individual. But if you have a craving for a special
food, it is well to satisfy that traving, but subject
to moderation and the laws of chemical compati-
bility.
Chemical Classes.Chemicaliy, foods are classi-
fied as acid-forming, base-forming2 or neutral. Most
acid fruits and green vegetnhI are base-forming
after they are digested, hence neutralize the effects
of the acid-forming foods, i.e., starches, cereals,
flour products, etc.and proteinsmeat (except
bacon), fish, egg whites, cheese (except cream
cheese), milk, nuts (except almonds).
Since the body is normally 80% nllrnllne and only
20% acid, your diet should be so selected as to be
composed of 80% n1k1ine or base-forming foods,
and only 20% starch and proteins, both of which
form acid after digesting? On the basis of calories,
only 10 calories out of every 100 should be proteins.
ProteinsDr. William Howard Hay estimates
that we eat ten times as many proteins as.we need.
2Aj4og 3See chart on page 109.
FOOD IN GENERAL 43
This excess not only puts extra work on the kidneys
and liver, but over stimulates the circulation and
produces an organic strain so that the "factor of
safety" of these organs may be exceeded and their
collapse result.
Proteins also produce the most irritating debris
which both clog the system and irritate, the mucous
membrane of the organs of elimination. Mother
source of great acid formation is the use of refined
and bleached white flour products andwhite sugar.
Great acidity comes both from too much of the
wrong type of food and from wrong combinations.
Catarrh.Catarrhal conditions of nose1 throat,
sinuses, stomach, intestines, etc, pass through three
stages, (a) congestion or inflammation, (b) mucous
or dripping excretion, and (c) dry or crust stages.
But all will disappear when their mucous membranes
are relieved of the irritation of acid end-products
of digestion and auto-toxemia through thorough de-
toxication, fasting and proper diet Germs of colds
and other infections are always present in the mouth
and nasal passages, but they cannot grow if the
vitality of the tissues is not depleted by acidosis and
toxemia or by destructive mental and emotional
storms.
Old Age.J'The life processes produce poisons as
by-products of their activity. We almost always do
die of poisons! The only real exception is when we
44 HEALTH HINTS
are killed by physical violencepoison, therefore,
is the main - factor in causing òld age and death.
How extremely important it is to reduce our daily
dose of poison and eliminate as thoroughly and
promptly as possible all such poisons." $
Passions Stimulated.That a high-protein or
meat diet tends to intensify lower animalistic im-
pulses and passions, while a low-protein, vegetarian
diet tends to reduce them, has been known since the
most ancient times. The Greek Orphists, the Pythag-
oreans, the Manichaeans, the Neo-Platonists, the
Trappist monks and nearly all religious orders
practicing monasticism abstained from foods rich
in proteinsamong the Pythagoreans including
beans Iwith that end in view. Modern records
show that the us&of protein-rich, uric-acid-forming
foods which acidify the blood and urine, increase the
blood pressure, and therefore heighten sexual desire-'
through their irritating effect upon the mucous
membranes of the genital organs. Spices, pepper,
tobacco, piddes, shellfish and alcohol have a similar
sexually stimulating effect due to their irritation of
the mucous membranes.
Low Protein DietExperiments of the Car-
negie Institute of Washington' in 1919 with two
squads of twelve men each'over a period of four
3How to Live, Fisher, 61.
4Hunum Vitality and Efficiency w,dr Prolonged Restricted
Thet. Publication, 280.
FOOD IN GENERAL 45
months showed a lowered blood pressure in those on
a low-protein diet, while the reduction in or extinc-
fion of their sex desire and its usual manifestations
in dreams and habits and their mental attitude toward
women was of a striking nature. Even the sex-
appeal of dancing with women was either entirely
abent or negligible. After the second or third day
after the return to uncontrolled rich-protein diet,
the former sex impulses and experiences returned,
thus showing the specific influence of rich-protein
diet on sex.
Periodic Functions.Such diet has a similar
influence on the periodic functions of women, a low-
protein and simple, non-stimulating diet greatly re-
lieving if not removing most of the syniptorns.
This women can easily prove for themselves.
Puberty.The same rule applies to certain bad
habits in young people. During the rapid develop-
ment of the sexual system throughout puberty,
chemical stimulation of the organs can be avoided
and the desire for gratification largely eradicated by
a low-protein diet. "Especially avoid overeating,
and all foods tending towards acidity, toxemia and
especially towards constipation. So many parents
teach their children the principles of chastity. and
virtue in the nursery and yet unwittingly stimulate
their passions at. the tae.'
'For fUrther details see Diet a.sd Sex, Segmeister, 5O#.
POOD IN GENEp 47
bunge., but comhj,w Do not 'Ill up"
the Sto just from force of habit1 and always
Stop eating while 70U are enjoying the'f and
respect the variation in amount as the anizn do,
according to appetjt, a little at one meal, none at
anot I?specij3. avoid any food for Which you
have an aversion, for youx subj or ani,naJ
soul knows what is best for you.
Peecjj ChildreflD0 flot comp.j chilcfr to
est, especj7 things which they disljj Liflong
aversi may thus be formej Let their hunger
guide. Do not t2y to "clean up your plate," nor
force children to do so. Undesfrj food is far
better left out of your Stoniae than in. You are
not "saving it" by eating it, only Putting extra work
on the orga of e1iniij E1innj, it by not
eating it Fo restore lost ajetj drop out a meal
OrtWo maJ$refflsallf
you.
Pastj1.DO not herjtnj10 last from all solid
foocj until your hunger 4em food but drink
plenty of water or, better still, fruit Juices mean.
wbjk, even if the fast last for day: and rzee4b.
Par better eat too little thaw too much A purge '
and a fast of a weelj or two will cure most
have fasted foy a month and never
again suffea retu of the cenvIJJ$j(,fl$, Nepbjj..
48 HEALTH HINTS
tis, diabetes, skin diseases, asthma, all recover in the
absence of all food; also all other diseases resulting
from wrong chemistry will readjust themselves
when the body is free to give all its attention to
deaning house."
Life-force.Remember that food is not the
source of your life-force. That comes from God
through your astral body. Food, water and air are
but materials and energy-fuels needed to replace
those used up by the expression of your life and con-
sciousness through the body. Proteins and minerals
replace the tissues used up. As these die and need
replacement at an even rate, whether we are active
or sedentary, according to Dr. 'Hay we all need pro-
teins according to our size, not according to our
activity. Since starch; ugars and fats readily
oxidize to release quickly available energy, active per-
sons need and can digest more of these than sedentary
persons
Overeating.Aside from the previously men-
tioned mechanical and mental influences, most bodily
ills are but manifestations or symptoms of disordered
body chemistry. One important factor is overload-
ing the system by overeating. All the food in e,ç-
cess of that necessary to replace waste tissue and
supply energy must be thrown off or stored up as
fat. The excess puts excessive work on the organs
The New Health Era, Hay, 169.
FOOD IN GENERAL 49
of elimination and dogs the system with unnecessary
weight.
Hunger.Remember that hunger is satisfied in
the mouth and not in the stomach. The proof of
this is that if you bolt your food you can gorge
your stomach almost to bursting and still feel
hungry. On the other hand, if you chew each
morsel slowly and deliberately until it is so thor-
oughly mixed with saliva that it is a creamy fluid
before it is swallowed irvoluntarlly, your hunger
will be satisfied long before your stomach is full,
If not especially hungry, skip a meal or two until
you are hungry.
ThirstThirst is also satisfied in the mouth.
One glass of fluid slowly sipped and rinsed around
in the mouth and relished, will satisfy your thirst
better than several glasses just poured down until
your stomach is full, but leaving you still thirsty.
These facts are the basis of the paradoxical Hindu
aphorism: "Drink solids and chew fluids?' -
Enjoy Fõod.While food, and especially
starches, should be chewed to the point of liquid, in-
voluntary swallowing, do not count a certain number
of chews to each morsel and thus make eating a bore-
some task. Definitely and consciously enjoy your
food by giving your attention to its appetizing ap-
pearance and its delightful taste. Do this only while
eating and then pot it out of mind,-so that your mind
50 HEALTH HINTS
will not be focussed on your stomach, or on food ex-
ceptwhileeatingorpreparingfood. Ifthefoodis
worth eating, it should be worth enjoying. Ex-
- press this by quietly sniarldng your lips and saying
aloud to your hostess, or to yourself if alone: "Urn!
How delicious this is!" You thus establish a positive
affinity with the pranic essences of your food by
your realization and appreciation of them. The com-
binations should be not only chemically compatible,
but they should be pleasing and appetizing to look
upon, as well as palatable to the taste.
Io Not Hurry.Therefore, make your eating
and drinking happy functions Do not allow them
to be hurried or rushed through by either bolting
your food or gulping your liquids. Many people
erroneously feel they have "so much to do," that
they have not time to do it. You can do only one
thing well at a time. Therefore, take the time to do
it welL This is most important as regards eating.
If you "haven't time to eat" properly, then do
not eat at all.
No Arguments.Never allow heated arguments
or expressions of irritation, impatience, anger or
even resentment, or any negative emotion, to be
held, much less expressed, during meals. Such
emotions paralyze the digestive system, even to the
point of actually stopping the chemical activities of
FOOD IN GENERAL 51
the glands which secrete the digestive juices. Strive
to have nothing but happy, constructive conversation,
jokes, laughter, etc., at meals.
Giving Thzn'1r.Sin all supply comes from
God, to eat without giving tll2nlcÑ is thoughtless in-
gratitude. Recognizing your dependence upon the
Father for food as well as life, tunes you in to His
forces. Giving thanks to Him should bring a thrill
or a glow of satisfaction and happiness, if through
the sincerity of your thanks you male actual con-
tact with His forces.
An Occult Grace.I am a creator By the power
of my spiritualized will I consciously gather all the
forces from this food and use them to manifest
health, strength and harmony in all my bodies.
And we thank the Father for this manifestation of
His bounteous supply. May we use it to. His glory
in His service. Mnn-
Short Tbanks.We thanir the Father for this
manifestation of His bounteous supply. May we
use it to His glory in His service. Amen.
Care."Insurance companies have found that
even weak and sick people will, if they take good
care of theknselves, outlive those with robust consti-
tutions who abuse themselves.... A young man
who a few years ago was scarcely able to drag himself
into the aim in Colorado, when he was endeavoring
52 HEALTH HINTS
to rid himself of tuberculosisnot only succeeded by
dint of following substantially all the rules here laid
down, became an athlete and capable of running
twenty-five miles for sheer love of sport.T
Meat Eating.The question of the ethics and
morals of meat eating is an individual one which
each must decide for himself according to his stage
of unfoldment and the degree of transmutation of
his atoms. This problem is quite fully dealt with
in. the chapter on "Thou shalt not kill" in our The
Voice of Isis and in the chapter on "Transmigra-
tion" in our The Inner Radiance.
Spiritual UnfoldmentAs we have said before1
you should remember that spiritual unfoldment does
not come from the stomach but from the heart. As
far as meat being a necessary food is concerned,
The International Food Commission reports that:
"No absolute physiological need exists for meat,
since the proteins of meat can be better replaced by
other proteins contained in milk, cheese and eggs,
as well as by proteins of vegetable origin, such as
almonds, pistachios, sor-beans, brazil nuts, pecans
and other nuts." $
Vegetable Proteins."At a recent meeting of
the International Council of Physiologists it was de-
cided that meat was not a physiological necessity.
'It is not thought desirable to fix a minimum meat
'How So Live, Fisher, 160-1.
liind,s Dietetic:. Sri Sukul, 4.
FOOD IN GENERAL 53
ration, in view of the fact that no absolu.te physio-
logical need for meat exists, since the proteins of
meat can be replaced by other proteins of animal
origin, such as those contained in millç cheese and
eggs, as well as by proteins of vegetable origin."
The vegetable proteins are also rich in iron, hence
are a more valuable source of protein for children
and the anemic than is meat.
Starch Digestion.Since the first stage in the di-
gestion of starch takes place through the action of
the enzyme ptyalin in the flmline saliva, it is abso-
lutely essential that starchy food be thoroughly
chewed for some timeuntil it isa thick creamso
the ptyalin will be thoroughly mixed with it and have.
time to act, or the starch will ferment when it comes
in contact with the acid juices of the stomach which
kill the ptyalin and stop the digestion of the starch.
Not for Babies.'Before the teeth are in place,
the concentrated starches and cane sugars are never
thoroughly split.... Introducing starches and
sugars before the teeth are developed. . . is one of
the most fertile causes of the frequent fermenta-
tions, the bilious attacks, the lack of appetite, the
sour vomiting, the eruptions, the irritability, the bed-
wetting habit, and the general early formation of
acidstates . . . bytwo yearsof age."1°
TeethThe use of too much soft foods contain-
'How to Live, Fisher 40.
"he New HsatSh Era, Hay, 48 49.
54 HEALTH HINTS
big white flour or white sugar, and their acid results,
is one of the greatest causes of tooth decay, also
of excess acid formation. The Igorots of the
Philippines ruin their naturallÿ fine teeth whenever
they turn from their coarse diet to our soft, processed
foods
Brush the teeth thoroughly after every meal, espe-
cially before going to bed, so particles of food will
not decompoe and produce acid and promote bacte-
rial growth over night. Brush down and up.
Hard FoodsUse a considerable amount of
hard foods, such as hard tst stale crusts, grape
nuts, nuts and fibrous vegetables which require much
chewing. The chewing not only brings out the
flavor and increases the relish, but it also exercises
the jaws and improves the condition of the teeth and
teeth sockets, as well as causes a copious flow of
both saliva and gastric juice.
Chew Chew Club.Therefore, for your teeth's
and your health's sake join the Chew Chew Club!
Pyorrhea.It is said that the only animals be-
sides man that have pyorrhea are the domesticated
dog and cat, whose wrong diet is much like man's.
In xperiments on nirni1c, those deprived ofjjta
min C gave every symptom of pyorrhea, but liberal
use of citrus juices or fruit punch quicldy restored
them to normal.
31OyIkodi.Sstiu, Broughton 54.
FOOD IN GENERAL 55
Milk..Raw milk is one of the best of foods, but
,being a pròtein iLls not digested well with starches
or sugars, although cream may be used, as it is a
fat. It should be sipped and chewed. The tendency
of milk to- form mucus can be overne by the
use of fruit juis. Fresh, certified raw milk is
recommended, especially for children, as it is alka-
line whereas pasteurized niilkis acid.
Goaes Milk"Littie children, before the end of
the second year, need nothing but (mother's) milk
. . the best substitute is goafs milk. If nothing
but pasteurized milk can be obtained, then orange
juice should be added to the daily diet . . . even for
the breast fed infant Away goes the old f2milhr
bread and milk of our re-'2 However,
children who are actively exercising, also adults at
hard muscular worlç can usually oxidize this combi-
nation without difficulty.
Sugar.Reflned sugar and candy made therefrom
should be avoided. For sweetening, use brown
ugar, maple sugar or honey, although rock candy
may be used -between meals. Sugar should not be
used in tea or coffee or ith proteins. Dates, figs and
raisins may be used freely in place of candy. They
are very nutritious aid satisfy the taste for sweets.
- Weight Reduction.Heredity and Karma deter-
mine the type of body We incarnate in. This nnot
'277gg New Hgplth Era, Hay, 49-48.
56 HEALTH HINTS
be greatly changed, but it can be kept within shapely
proportions by preventing unsightly accumulations of
excess fat. One student lost two inches at his waist
line in six months by simply omitting bread and
cereals from breakfast. Women should not strive
for a "boyish figure," but for a well rounded
womanly figure. For it is the generous curves which
Nature has given their sex which make their figures
io attractive, not the immature stringiness of school
girls or "pony ballet" girls.
FatNaturally, excess fat comes from excess
food, for most stout person at three times as much
food as is necessary. No "reducing dief' is neces-
sary. Eat all that your appetite demands, but cut
Qut all fat-producing foods. With the cause re-
moved, -results follow automatically. Avoid all "fat
reducers." They contain dangerous drugs, and are
unnecessary if you will follow these directions.
Stop all ..ctarches, that is, all white flour products,
bread, crackers, macaroni, etc., all cereals, potatoes,
rice, etc.; if you would reduce.
Stop all sugars, candies and sweet dishes, also all
butter, fats and oils.
Omit breakfast entirely or use only grape fruit,
oranges or pineapple.
Reducing DietThis leaves plenty to eat. Use
especially all raw, live vegetable salads, also all
FOOD IN GENERAL 57
cooked vegetables except legumesdried, peas, beans,
lentilsand peanuts. Use all fresh fruits except ba-
nans. Ask for canned fruits wsthout sup. On
this diet you will have plenty to eat and you can -
lose a pound or more a day until you get down to
the normal weight for your height.
When down to normal you may add a glass of
milk, buttermilk or clabber, or an egg yolk beaten
up in rue, to your fruit breakfast. You may then
also add a moderate amount of meat or fish, if de-
sired, to your main meal, so long as you keep to the
compatible combinations.
One Kind.Do not eat more than one concen-
trated starch or one protein at a meal. To do so
would overbalance the proper proportion you bad
planned.
SaltThe less salt used the better. Some au-
thorities reportexperiments proving it to be a direct
cause of high blood pressure.'3 And pepper and
hot condiments should be avothed in general, al-
thugh the Hindus1' advocate the use of mild sweet
spices to flavor many dishes and give variety. The
use of celery or vegetable salt is recommended. Use
lemon in place of vinegar.
'3Orthodieteic.r, Broughton, 49.
"Hindu Dietetics, Sukul.
58 HEALTH HINTS
A1nrn.inmThe older type, and the cheap
modem type of aluminum ware should not be used
for cooking, as some of the metal is dissolved and
is absorbed by the food. This gradually accumu-
laths in the body and causes many gastric and nerv-
otis symptoms whose origin is obscure unless it is
recognized as aluminum poisoning. The high
priced modern ware is made of an aluminum alloy
which the makers d2m does not give aluminum
poisoning. But you can still use your old aluminum
ware if you cook everythingin patapar paper.
Up to You.No one can eat your food for you,
nor digest it, nor assimilate it, nor excrete its wastes.
So the cleansing and rebuilding of your body is u
to you. And since the matter is under your own
control, you have no one to blame but yourself if
you are sick
Putrefaction of MeatSome vegetarians claim
that meat putrefies in the stomach. Physiologically
this is not possible, as the acid and pepsin of the
gastric juice digest the meat so quicldy that even if
putrefying bacteria were presentwhich is extremely
unlikelythey would have not time in which to bring
about putrefaction. The symptoms such persons
quote as evidence of putrefactionbelching offensive
gas etc.are not those of putrefaction, but of. the
fermentation produced when starches or sugars are
eaten with meat.
CHAPTER VI
COMPATIBILITY OF FOODS
HeredityMiny persons totally disregard the
need for proper food combinations. They combine
anything that appeals to their taste or appetite, and
yet sean healthy and vigorous. They therefore con-
chide that their way of eating must be correct or
they would not feel so well.
This is usually due to the fact that they have in-
herited a vigorous constitution. Mid if they are
doing hard manual work or t&ing vigorous outdoor
exercise their muscular work will oxidize almost any
food. Also the body is so adaptable that it will
stand years of abuse and make the best of it.
Early Breakdown.But sooner or later after
middle life they have severe illnesses or a "nervous
breakdown" and aresuddenly compelled to "take life
easy." The organs which have been so long abused
by wrong diet and overwork reach their limit of
endurance and rebel. This rebellion may localize as
indigestion, diabetes; kidney or heart trouble, high
blood pressure, apoplexy, etc. But these are not
conditions which have suddenly attacked them.
59
60 HEALTH HINTS
They are but the focal symptoms and end-results of
years of abuse.
Incompatibilities.The general rule laid down
ty over thirty years of specific experience and experi-
mentation by Dr. William Howard Hay, and con-
curred in by many other food specialists who follow
along the general line of the school of dietetics
founded by him, is that concentrated starches should
not be eaten at the same meal with either proteins or
acid fruits.
Ptyalin.As we said under Starch Digestion,1 the
'action of the enzyme ptyalin found in the tllrn1hie
saliva begins the digestion of starch into primary
sugars, the dextrins and maltose. As this enzyme
must be thoroughly incorporated into the starch,
chewing the food to a creamy consistency is essen-
tial, for the pty can act on yJnallcaline solution.
Although the gastric juice of the stomach is nor-
nially slightly acid, when starch is being eaten it
reflexly inhibits the acid secretion to a minimum,
hence the digestion of the starch can continue for
some time in the stomach.
Acid Stimilated.But when proteins are eaten,
they reflexly stimulate the secretion of the acid to a
maximum. This immediately stops the further di-
gestion of the starch, which if it has not been
thoroughly chewed and insalivated, lies in the
1Page5
COMPATIBILITY OF FOODS 61
stomach and ferments. This produces gas, heart-
burn, water-brash, excessive acid stomach and toxic
accumulations. It is this exéess of acid of fer,nen-
tatiòn and decomposition, not the normal acid of
secretion, which causes acidosis.
Acidosis.AIl the body fluids save fourgastric
juice, urine, sweat, vaginalare ilklin; hence the
necessity for 80% alkaline forming food. The
amount of acidity is measured by comparing it with
the strength of hydrogen ions in water. With water
having a formula of pH 7, and normal blood alkalinity
represented by pH 7.3 to 7.5 indicating excellent
health, a pH of over 7.5 is called hyper-alkalinity or
alkalosi.r. Unless excessive, this indicates high func-
tional activity and ample Ikt1ine reserve with which
to combat excessive acidity. A pH of less than 7.3
is called hyper-acidity or acidosLc, and indicates low
functional activity.
Symptorns.A tired feeling, listlessness on
awakiiig, an over-full puffed feeling after meals.
Drowsiness, tiring easily, catching cold easily, short-
ness of breath, skin eruptions, mild eye troubles,
pyorrhea, brittle or falling hair, etc. Counteracted
by a purge, followed by citrus fruits or fruit punch.
Alki1inity.The body fluids are kept 21k21h1C by
(1) buffer saltscarbonates and phosphateswbich
resist chemical changes from the normal; by (2)
respiration or elimination of carbonic acid gas. Its
62 HEALTH HINTS
concentration in the blood regulates the depth of the
breathing by affecting the respiratory center in the
brain. When the buffer salts and the respiratory
system are overtaxed by acid, the body rids itself of
the excess acid by (3) excretion through bowels,
skin, and chiefly through the kidneys. It is this
t;.11i irritation by the acids and toxines that is
largely responsible for kidney breakdown (nephri-
tis). All of the above are markedly controlled by
(4) diet of compatible foods, largely fruits and vege-
tables.
Soda.While alkaline drugs temporarily raise the
Ik2Iine reserve, they tend to accumulate in the tis-
sues and are difficult to dlimintte, and upset normal
acid-allc2line balance. The only natural way to build
up a normal 2Ile4line reserve is through a diet in
which 21b'line-forming foods predominate over acid-
forming foods in a ratio of 80 to 20.
ProteinsProteins dem2nd an acid medium and
pepsin for their digestion, hen are digested in the
stomacb, where those very conditions prevent the
digestion of starches.
Rules.The rules generally agreed upon by the
new Coznptibility School of dietetics are as follows:
1. Do not combine proteins(meats, fish, egg
white, mllk cheese and nuts) with concentrated
starches.(breakfast foods, rice, potatoes, ripe dried
beans or peas, macaroni, spaghetti, noodles, bread,
COMPATIBILITY OF FOODS 63
crackers, cake pastry or other white flour products).
Any of the non-starch vegetables may be combined
with the proteins.
Do not combine proteins with sweets, except
maple sugar and honey, unheated preferred. Tu-
pola honey is recommended for its high percentage
of levulose or predigested sugar.
Do not combine starches with acid fruits.
Starches may be combined with any vegetables
and with sweets.
Proteins combine with all vegetables and fruits
and fruit juices, eAcept the concentrated starches.
You can use much the same foods you usually do
when in the right combination.
All vegetables contain some starch, but they are
classed &6 starchesthat is, concentrated starches
only when they contain 40% or more of starch.
Doctors Untrained.Some doctors scoff at this
classification, but doctors as a class are abysmally
ignorant as to diet, more so than the average good
cook, unless they have made a special study of it.
And even then they lack a correct understanding un-
Ie.cs they have studied it not merely from the stand-
point of calories and vittmin, but from the
standpoint of the chemical end-products of &gestion
in combination The reason for this ignorance is
that most medièal schools give an average of only
six hours' instruction on diet during four years
64 HEALTH HINTS
study I (About as much as they give to nursing.)
And most of that miserly six hours is given
over to statistics as to calories, vitamins, etc. and
how to prepare junket, koomiss and other "deli-
cacies" to "tempt the appetite" of the patient who
usually should be fasting I
Experience.On the contrary Dr. Hay, and those
who follow the general reforms introduced by him,
by repeated chemical analysms of stomach contents at
various stages, and by years of clinical experience in
curing thousands of chronic casesindigestion, ca-
tarrh, rheumatism, arthriti kidney, bladder, liver,
sinus trouble, asthma, bay fever, gall bladder, skin
diseases, etc.,many of whom bad been months in
hospitals and sanitariums and had been given up as
hopeless, has definitely proved that the above rules
are not mere theory or fad but are laws. For those
who follow them are cured.
Eating Habits.The principal change this diet
will make in your eating habits is that if you have a
cereal and toast or bread for breakfast, you should
not have acid fruit juices, meat or egg whites or else
sûeh juices should be taken an hour before break-
fast. Egg yolks and bacon are classed as fats and
can be used with cereals or starches. If you do not
have any starch at breakfast, then the citrus fruits
may be taken with it. Orange and milk make an
ideal breakfast.
COMPATIBILITY OF FOODS 65
For lunch and dinner you will soon get used to
eliminating bread, potatoes, rice noodles, etc. when
meat, fish or other proteins are used. But when
plenty of other vegetables are used with proteins, you
will soon become accustomed to the absence of starch.
If you wish one starch meal a day, using potatoes,
rice, macaroni, etc., have all you want at a meal,
when proteins and acid fruits are not used. But
do not use more than one concentrated starch in the
meal. You do not need to skimp your meals, espe-
cially when changing to the new diet, as there is a
great variety of foods to use.1 It is the proper selec-
tion and cotnbinaton that is important.
Processed Foods.It is best to avoid most proc-
essed and devitalized foods, such as prepared break-
fast foods, etc. unless specially irradiated with
ultra-violet rays. Citrus fruits should be eaten at
least an hour before a cereal or starch meal.
Bran.Foods with more than the natural amount
of bran found in grains should be avoided. Bran
should not be eaten alone. Its action is due to its
irritation of the intestines, and its continued use
often causes grave bowel troubles, even becoming
embedded in its walls and having to be scraped out
Its sharp edges are said even to amputate the minute
vim of the intestinc which absorb the food.
1Use freely of fresh vegetables and fruits in their seasons,
and omit old winter potatoes and roots, dried beans, dried
fruits, old nutstc. when the fresh ones are in the market.
CifAPTER VI!
COOKING
Raw Foods.As a general rule, eat as much live,
raw foods as possibic. Raw foods are called "live
foods" because they have not been killed nor their
prana altered by cooking. They still retain much
of their living prana and magnetism unless they are
stale. They digest more easily than when cooked,
and they pass through the system more rapidly, hence
there is little time for fermentation or decomposi-
tion, therefore no formation of toxic poisons.
in general, do not took any food which Nature
has made palatable when raw. This includes salads,
fruits, nuts, raisins, figs, dates and other dried fruits,
berries, celery, carrots, beets, cabbage, cucumbers,
tomatoes, radishes, grapes, onions, green peppers,
cauliflower, asparagus etc. It also includes butter,
cheese, naillt, cream, sour milk, buttermilk, honey,
olive and other vegetable oils. All raw foods should
be well washed to remove as far as possible the
poisons withwhich they may have been sprayed.
Cooking.Baking, broiling or staniing are the
best methods of cooking.
Cooking destroys some vitamins,1 and boiling also
lSee advertising pages for our booklet on Vtansin.
COOKING 67
dissolves out many essential minerals which are
usually poured down the sink. A teaspoonful of
powdeied kelp a day is recommended by some to re-
place many-of the lost vitimins and minerals.
Most starchy foods, cereals and unripe fruit
should be thoroughly cooked before eating.
Vegetables.Most vegetables should be cooked
(steamed) with little or no water. Where water is
used, it dissolves out of the vegetables many vita-
mins and minerals. If it cannot all be cooked down
and absorbed by the vegetables, it should be saved
to use in gravy or as a juice-drink with or between
meals. -
Patapar Paper.Vegetables are best cooked by
washing without paring, and tied up in "patapar
paper"2 and placed in a small amount of boiling
water. This, preserves all their flavors, juices, vita-
mins and minerals. And there is no comparison in
their flavor. Once eaten cooked in patapar paper,
you will never cook them any other way. The paper
can be obtained at any ten-cent storej and can be
washed and used again and again.
'Vit2niinn.There is little need to go into the
complicated subject of specific 'vitamim and the..
twelve minepl salts needed jy the body. I the wide
range of dUet, recoinmened herein, especially the
raw foods, is fòllowed, you will obtain all the vita-
mins and minerals in generous amounts.
In England called "Crop paper" instead of "Patapar."
68 HEALTH HINTS
RoastUse two long spoons for turning a roast.
A fork pierces the surface and allows the juices to
escape.
Tins.If you use muffin or other tins for baking
tomatoes, apples, stuffed peppers, onions, etc, they
will keep their shape better.
PotassiumPotassium- is of especial importance in neutral-
,izmg acids, preventing and eliminating calcium deposits which
are a feature of the degenerative diseases; in .Iimnating ab-
normal growths, uIcéÇThêmmdcliið gouty and old-age
symptoms, and in toning up the skin. As it is easily eliminated
from the body1 many ierscns suffer to some degree from
potassium deficiency. While all salad greens and vegetables
grown above the ground are generally rich in potassium, in
addition to their use we recommend as especially important the
frequent use of potassium broth at lqst two or three times a
week. A quantiqr can be made once or twice a week and kept
in a dosed jar in the refrigerator ready for use as needed..
Potassium broth is made as follows:
Into two quarts water put:
1 lb. Celery (3 cups when finely shredded or cut)
1 lb. Cariots 14 14 a .. a a
lb. Spinach (1 cup when « " "
1 . Pari ( cup winn" « U
Vegetable salt to taste (about one level tablespoon for this
The vegetables may be put through a food chopper or finely
-cut or shredded. When shredded or cut vegetables are used,
the broth will have a very delicate flavor and will be clearer
in color. There is no objection, however, to the fine particles
of vegetable matter which will be found remaining in the broth
after it has been strained when ground vegetables are used in
the preparation.
The cooking time is most important in the preparation of this
broth. The veetab1es should be -put in cold water and brought
to a boil slowlyin about twenty minutes. After the boihng
point is reached, the broth should be allowed to simmer for
-from five to ten minutes. Five minutes is sufficient if the
vegetables have been ground. Eight to ten minutes if cut or
shredded.
CHAPTER VIII
VARIOUS SUGGESTIONS
Eyes.According to the elaborate experiments of
Dr.: W. H. Bates1 and the school who follow him,
nearly all eye defect are due to unconscious nervous
strain which affects the muscles of accommodation
and so disturbs the lens of the eye. This applies
to squints, divergent vision and crossed eyes, as well
as to accommodation. Since perfect darkness re-
laxes the tension, his remedy, which he calls "palm-
big," is to place the crossed palms of the bands gently
over the eyes in such a way as to exclude all light,
but without touching the eyeballs. Since we see or
interpret our vision with our minds and not with
the eye$, thought and memory play an important
part m correcting our vision..
Thilniing.With your palms over the eyes, think
of the blackest things you know of. Remember how
intensely black an automobile is or black cloth, espe-
daily black velvet, and mentally shift from one
black object to another. Pin a very black advertise-
1For details see The Cgre of Isujierfect Sight by treatment
without glaue:,Bates.
70 HEALTH HINTS
ment on the wall a few feet away and see how much
of the finer print you can read Without strain. Then
try "palming" and 'fthinking black" a minute or two
and then see how much better you can read the finer
print. Then look awaÿ at some distant object, but
without strain. 'This also relaxes the eyes. These
are very simple exercises, but are of the utmost im-
portance and if persisted in will cure almost all eye
defects.
Bflnlring.Blinldng the eyes gently but rapidly,
also swinging the eyes from side to side and di-
agonally upward and downward, also closing the
eyes tightly and opening them widely, tones and
strengthens all the muscles of the eyes. But palming
and "tliitiking black" and testing your eyes with an
advertisement or chart is the most important factor.
Practice reading without glasses for a few miii-
utes. Do the best you can without strain. When
the letters blur, rest the eyes by pilniung, and repeat
many times during the day. Palm and blink and
focus on distant objects, especially green fields or
trees, many times during the day.
Practice ,palrning and blinking during moving
pictures or while reading on moving trains.
Boric Acid..If the eyes are infbtned, rinse them
in a solution of boric acid.
Do not read in a waning light or in the bright
sunlight, or with lamplight directly in front of you.
VARIOUS SUGGESTIONS 71
Have the light over your shoulder or at least at the
side, at the left if writing.
Detoxication and correct diet will also help the
eyes..
Sleep.Sleep is Nature's;greatest restorative, for
during sound sleep we withdraw completely from the
physkal body and ascend into the higher relmc
where our astral body becomes more or less com-
pletely recharged with the pranic life-force. This
we bring back with us to recharge our physical body.
During sleep is when we assiniihte most of our
food, grow and make repairs. Some who are
psychic sometimes return quite tired or depleted.
This is because they have indulged in too. strenuous
activities in the astral world. Make up your mind
that, as a rule, you go to sleep to rest and recuperate,
and not to work in the astral; your real work and
lessons are here on the physical plane. That is why
you incarnated here. Five or six hours sleep should
be enough when properly detoxicated, although some
mental workers need-seven or eight.
Insoznnia.Insoninia is usually due to acid fer-
inentation in the cniH intestine. The treatment is
to counteract that addity as quicidy as possible.
Therefore, if nervous, wakeful and sleepless, take
a full glass of grapefruit juice.1 Also take a high
enema whit lukewarm water only, hot water being
too stimulating. - -
tjust before gong to bed.
72 HEALTH HINTS
Also take the Calming or the Cleansing Breath.
Also use the Prayer to the Divine Indweller, or to the
loving I Am Presence and let Him bear all your
burdens and anxieties. Then drop off to sleep in
calm confidence in His love.
Protective InvocationIf disturbed by astral
forces or entities, take the drink and enema first, then
use the above mentioned prayer or our Protecting
Invocation and rely upon the protection of the
blazing white Christ-light with which it surrounds
you. If these psychic disturbances occur frequently,
it sometimes helps to crush some gum camphor and
cloves together and keep them in a closed jar during
the day, but open it in your bedroom during the
night. Undeveloped entities do not like these odors..
Some sensitive persons sleep better with the iead
toward the North, but this is not important.
AlcohoLAs we have explained elsewhere' al-
cohol and narcotics disintegrate the astral sheaths
which protect your psychic centers from invasion by
astral forces which may lead to obsession. Hence the
frequent use of alcoholic beverages should be posi-
tively refused by those who seriously desire spiritual
advancement and mastely.
"Special classes of workmen have been tested as
to their efficiency under liquor in small amounts and
withòut it entirely, and it was invariably found that
'The Voice of lois, Curtiss, 100.
VARIOUS SUGGESTIONS 73
the liquor was a handicap, aitho invariably the work-
men thought they could work harder by its aid. Al-
cphol. numbs the sense of fatigue and so deceives the
user.:.. People who indulge in alcohol show less
resistance to infectious diseases than abstemious in-
dividuals."1
Tobacco."Tobacco although classed as a nar-
cotic does not contain the elements so destructive
to the psychic centers, in fact, when not used to ex-
cess, is rather soothing. It does, however, inju-
riously affect the heart and nervous system. From
an occult standpoint one of the greatest objections
to its use is its tendency to form a habit. It goes
without saying that the aspirant for the spiritual
life must be master of all conditions and functions
and, a slave to none.", "Prof. Pack, of the Uni-
versity of Utah, finds that tobacco-using athletes are
distinctly inferior to those who abstain.... There
is also much experimental eviden e to show that to-
bacco induces arterial changes."3 Tobacco is
especially harmful to women because of their more
sensitive nervous system. Their nervous and excit-
able conditions usually have a basis of acidosis and
toxemia, hence should be soothed by detoxication
instead of by tobacco.
Vaccination."Those nations most thoroughly
'How b Lwe .,Fsher, 81, 82.
'Tue Voice o/ 1w, Curtis,, 101.
74 HEALTH HINTS
vaccinated, as the Philippine Islands, Japan and
Italy, have today the highest incidence and highest
mortality from cnið1pox of all nations, while those
nations that do not observe the rite of vaccination
are lowest in both morbidity and mortality. If vac-
cination prevents smaIlpox then those nations en-
forcing iraccination should be free from the plague.
Yet the opposite is true, as anyonõ can prove
by consulting the vital statistics of every civilized
country keeping health records."
Seruzns.Aside from their uncertainty and often
disastrous after effects, we should not wilfully pol-
lute our blood stream with the blood or sertnn from
the animal kingdom, still less with either disease
- germs themselves or their products. With detoxi-
cation and proper diet their uncertain aid will not
be needed.
SurgerySurgery is seldom justified in diseased
coflditions, as in most cases it does not remove the
cause of the trouble, only the result, namely, the
diseased part or organ. "Dr. Charles Mayo (of the
great Mayo surgical clinic) said a few years ago
that nine-tenths of the internal surgical operations
of today never should have been done. . . it is the
writer's firm conviction that ninty-thne percent of
all internal operations performed today never should
'The New. Heafth Era Hay, l75
VARIOUS SUGGESTIONS 75
have been done." s Dr. John B. Dever, Professor
of Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania, stated
some years ago that the records of his thousands of
operations showed that only about 13% were of any
permanent benefit.
Tonsils.-"No tonsil is ever so hopelessly dis-
eased as to deserve removal, and one of the largest
and best equipped pathological laboratories in this
coUntry reports that in one thousand tonsiLf re-
moved. . . examination showed that but 7% were
diseased"T V
Specialists.Specialists are trained to deal with
certain particular organs or conditions. They spend
much time on diagnosis and their diagnosis may be
wonderful, but their treatnient is often only paula-
tive It is not the organ or part that needs treatment,
but the underlying bodily conditions (chemistry)
which permit the symptoms to appear in a particular
part..
Doctors.From the above -remarks, it might
scan that we were opposed to doctors or belittle their
services. Far from it We recognize that thousands
of noble men are devoting their whole lives to reliev-
ing suffering himiiity. What we wish to empha-
size is that most of their services would not be
needed if the basic factorsacidosis, toxemia, de-
The New Health-Era, Hay, 22.
'The New Health Era, Hay .
76 HEALTH Hflil
structive thoughts and emotions*hich either cause
most diseases or permit them to manifest, were elimi-
nated. To teach you how to eliminate these causes
is the object of this volume.
Radionics.One of the most important steps in
modern medical practice is the development of the
use of high frequency radio waves in the treatment
of diseased conditions, especially of cancer. The in-
struments using such radio tubes are able to diag-
nose the condition by its vibratory wave-length, and
to charge the patient's bqdy with the wave-length
which will neutralize the diseased condition and
cause complete recovery in an amazingly short time.
But to remain relieved or cured, the patient must,
of course, change his habits of life, as herein out-
lined, which caused the condition.
Wherever such radionic instruments can be found
in the hands of competent practitioners, such as our
own. staff, we recommend that you be treated by them
for serious ailments. The one known as the "Radio-
clast" is the most specific in diagnosis and treatment
of all we have seen. It is not necessary for the pa-
tient to be present to receive an accurate diagnosis,
for with tÌii instrument a.complete diagnosis can be
made from a few drops of the patient's blood sent
on a piece of clean white blotter or cotton wool.
S Wrhe the author U interested in such a diagnosis.
CHAPTZR IX
MENTAL INFLUENCES
Your health results from a divine harmony of
body, mind and spirit, 1. e., a pure body, a tranquil
mind and a Soul stayed on God.
Mind Soars." 'As a man f1iin1eth in his heart,
soishe,'isniorethanatritesaying, foritiscapable
of active and most convincing proof. As the body
dears of waste material with which it was formerly
loaded, the mind scars to heights not formerly
glimpsed by toxic minds, and new worlds seem to
open."1
Origin of ThoughtWhile thought originates
in the mind in the mental world outside of and above
the body, it must utilize the body and its functions
to express itsdf on earth. And this expression de-
pends upon the condition of the body as an instru-.
nient. Slow thinlrng, poor reasoning power, loss of
memory, lack of the power to concentrate are all
evidence, not of a defective brain, but of toxemia.
Usually nothing is wrong with the brain, but its
functioning is interfered with by the toxic character
of the blood supplied to it
1Tlse New Health Ens, Hay6t
78 }IEALTH HINTS
Emotions.Just as inharmonious, depressed and
toxic conditions of the body have a corresponding
influence on the mind, so does your mind, and espe-
daily your emotions, have an enormous effect upon
the body. A mental shock may cause fainting.
Worry interferes with both digestion and sleep, etc.
Mental Health.As we have already said:
"Mental health is the result of right thinking. There-
fore, we must learn so to order our thoughts that
they shall be constructive and helpful. We must also
study the laws of mind .so that we may work in
harmony with them and not waste our mental forces.
in vain imaginings, or fritter them away in worry,
etc.. . . We must train our ,ninctr to work in har-
mony with our ideals and principles of life, and it
will then radiate harmony and health."2
Role of WinÆ"It is often ignorantly said that
all ills of the body are caused by the mind. This, of
course, is obviously untrue, for all physical injurie,
external and internal poisonings, psychic disorders,
and all disorders resulting from improper diet, are
not caused by the mind; they come from without
But all «se sen.cations and symptoms of illness are
experienced through the reaction of the mind to the
inharmonious cause of the sensation." Hence in-
stead of ignoring the body and trying t&'counteract
the effects of its broken laws by the mind and higher
'The Mesage of Aqi.ana, Curtis., 151-51-52
MENTAI INFLUENCES 79
powers, the llrstthing todo is to seethatyou donot
poison the blood which bathes the.whole body, espe-
daily the irain and nervous systems, with, the results
of perverted body chemistry and unlimintted wastes.
A brain so nourished cannot act normally. A
thorough deansing of the body will not only eJtnge.
the chemical condition of your blood and tissues, but
will also change your mental reactions and. your
whole psychology.
Mental Harmony.When harmonized, the mind.
yields to the normal needs of a pure body without
being hampered by grossness. Yet it controls the
body's desires without over-indulging them.
When inharmonious, both body and mind derange
each other by confusion of elements, which wastes
the force of each.
Thought a MagnetThought is a magnet It
attracts to you others' thoughts of like character
which 'tend to find expression through you, unless
counteracted by an opposite thought of greater
power.
Subconscious Mlnd..Especially do your emo-
tions have an enormous effect. All negative 'elno-
tions have a most devita1i4ng and disintegrating, in
some cases an actually poisonous, effect upon the
body. This is due to their effect upon the subcon
scious mind, which controls all the functions of life
circulation, repiration, digestion, assimllition,
80 HEALTH HINTS
excretion, repair and chemical activitiesthrough
the solar plexus and the sympathetic nervous system.
Governs Body."But the subconscious mind
must not be thought of as merely the janitor in the
basement who supplies the furnace with fuel and re-
moves the ashes, for it is far more. It is an aspect
of mind which governs all our reflex activities or
unconscious and instinctive reactions, and these
functions are by no means entirely automatic. In
addition to this, under normal conditions it suggests
or gives us a craving for what we should eat, what
we should-wear and how we should protect and take
care of our body through diet, cxercise recreation,
etc., even -if these suggestions are overruled by our
preconceived, environmental and family ideas; by
our vanity, our indolence, or the ideas of others
which we impose upon it. If we learned to follow
the guidance of the subconscious as to the welfare of
the body, we would seldom be sick or get rundown
and stagnant. Yet this instinctive mind must not
be given full and nnflinited sway, for it also ex-
presses the passions, desires and appetites of the
animal body which must be checked, governed and
directed by the two higher aspects of the mind which
are above it and which are responsible for the de-
gree to which it is indulged."
$ &M for a py of thu article Regeneration and the Mind,
CorthL
MENTAL INFLUENCES 81
Mental Laws.As we have said elsewhere: "Re-
member that one of the fundamental laws of mind
is: Every thought tends to express itself in action
unless counteracted or neutralized by an opposite
thought of greater power. Therefore, we must refuse
to think the kind of thoughts that we do not wish
expressed through us. But never fight them; for to
do so we are concentrating upon them and giving
them greater power. Instead of resisting or fight-
ing them, we must simply turn our minds away from
them by concentrating on and filling our minds with
the opposite kind of thoughts, ones which we do
wish to have expressed through us.
Power Over You."Another fundamental law
is: Every thought that we admit into our minds
and contemplate we give a power over us. But we
do not have to admit into our minds, contemplate
and go over and over every thought that may arise
in or be presented to our consciousness. We can
turn away from and refuse to dwell upon those
thoughts which do not measure up to the ideals of
our lives. Therefore, remember that we do not
have to admit or contemplate thoughts of evil or
ill health unks.r we choose to do so. The supreme
importance of carefully choosing and controlling
our thoughts as the basis of our lives lies in the fact
tjit every word and act is but the ultimate expres-
sion of a thoughror instinct Good thoughts beget
82 HEALTH HINTS
good words and acts, and vice versa, and all have
their reflex action in the body.
Suggestion."The great significance of these
laws lies in the fact that our subconscious mind is
eAtreluely suggestible. It is possible to be made ac-
tually ill by being continually told how ill you look.
And you can greatly encourage and help others by
telling them how much better and happier they are
looking today.
Do Not Accept."You do not have to respond
to suggestions, unless you deliberately choose to do
so,if you keep your mind poised, discriminating and
positive.
Flesh Responds._Any positive idea or thought
held in the rational mind acts like a command which
the subconscious mind takes up and endeavors to
express in action, in function and even in structure;
that is, it endeavors to build the logical meaning of
that thought into our very flesh. This is why we
ultimately come to express in our looks and acts the
predominating type of thoughts which we think, s. e.,
gluttonous, selfish, vain, crafty, cruel, etc., or pure,
frank, kind and sympathetic.
Repercussion.1If the power of the mind to ac-
tually alter the structure of the body is so great that
by the continued morbid concentration on the five
wounds of Jesus, the stigmatathe actual physi-
cal wounds in the hands, feet and sideappeared on
MENTAL INFLUENCES 83
the body of St Francis of Assissi and several other
medieval psychics, as well as upon the body of the
young peasant girl, Theresa Nenmn of Komers-
reuth, Austria, who for over four years (1926-30)
was under the investigation of the greatest physi-
cians, scientists and psychic researchers of Europe
what a mighty regeneration of the body can not the
mind accomplish if repeatedly focussed with equally
intense concentration upon the manifestation in our
flesh of the divine perfectionthe Divine Life
health, love1 power and happinessof the Divine
Indweller, if we will only strive to live in His con-
scionsnqs and j , 1hjon of His indwelling
prseu.
Rebuilding"All the cells of every tissue and
organ of the body are continually dividing and grow- -
ng and producing new cells to replace the cells that
are worn out b each day's activUes. Some tissues
are replaced more rapidly than other more dense.
ones, such as the bones, but science estimates that
at the end of every seven years we have an entirely
new 'body which contains not a single cell we bad
seven years before And it is upon these sensitive
new cells thus constantly formed that the submit-
scions mind impresses the characteristics of the
thoughts we habitually hold or hold temporarily but,
under great emotional stress or concintration. This
we are constantly changing the n1&e-up of our body
by the character of the thoughts we hold. -
84 HEALTH HINTS
Regeneon.."Ebis law is the key-note of re-
generation; for if we hold the idea that we must
sometimes be sick, must ultimately grow old, have
our body wear out and die, quite naturally those
fixed and stagnant ideas are built into and manifest
in our flesh and so stagnate all our vital functions,
and old age and death necessarily follow. We,
therefore, have to withdraw from the physical world
because the functions of our instrument of mani-
festation have become so stagnant that the life-force
from the higher worlds can 'no longer flow through
them.
Reincarnation."This is the reason for reincar-
nation. We must keep returning again and again
until we learn to live in and be dominated, not by
the subconscious mind of the body which is mortal,
nor by the consciousness of the rational mind which
is limited in expression, jbyth Super-conscious
Mind of the Higher Self or Divine Indweller who is
immortal. We must reincarnate until we can build
up and perfect a body that will express the Real or
Spiritual Self instead of merely that manifested
fragment o that Self which we call the iumanpç
sonality or personal self. But, as the Lord said to
Job:4 'If there be an interpreter (the illumined
mind) to shew unto man his uprightness (or divine
perfection); then . . . his flesh shall be fresher
4Job, riit, 23-5.
MENTAL INFLUENCES 85
than a child's; he shall return to the days of his
youth.' 1
Mental Attitude.You must have a positi* de-
sire to recover. A mere weak wish to be relieved of
suffering is not enough. There must be a positive
desire, a burning resolution that is not only willing
to "take the trouble" to change your habits of life,
in spite of the opinions of those who do not under-
stand your reasons. And there must be a determined
will to carry it through to suess, to joyous radiant
health. Defeat is deadly. Never accept it. -
Irish.It is said that an Irishman is never down
except to get a better hold. Then you should be
Irish in this sense. Never give up, but always be
looking for a better hold.
Planetaiy Conditions.Astro&ogical conditions
undoubtedly affect the health. But astrology teaches
you to "Rule ýour stars" and not give way to their
forces as though they were fate. If the body is kept
detoxicated and aJkaline and the mind kept positive
and responsive to constructive forces only, any ad-
verse astrological conditions can be neutralized or
turned into constructive dimnels, just as the sailor
adjusts his sails to make adverse winds push him
onward to his port.
'Sce lesson Regeneration and the Mind, Curdu.
CHAPTER X
EMOTIONS
Your emotions have an even more powerful effect
upon the body than do your thoughts, as they act
directly upon the emotional or astral body and 'thus
repercus or read upon the physical.
Constructive Emoions.Joy and happiness
bring smiles and stimulate all the bodily functions
and give a general sense of well-being. Love suffuses
the body with a warm constructive glow, while
prayer and spiritual aspiration tune your mind in'to
the uplifting vibrations of the spiritual world, and
your body responds in harmony and health.
Negative Emotions.On the other hand, nega-
tive emotions have a decidedly disintegrating, and
in many cases an actually poisonous, effect.
Fear.1Fcar paralyzes not only your muscles, so
that you may literally be "scared stiff," but it also
paralyzes all the digestive functions, so that food in
the stomach lies like a dead weight. It may also
paralyze the sphincter muscles so they cannot retain
the body wastes. But since you are not a mortal,
1 Send foe free copy of lesson Fear Not, Curtiss. Also see
pzalms,xci,5an47.
EMOTIONS 87
but an immortal, spiritual being, there is nothing to
fear if you rely confidently and absolutely on that in-
ner Spiritual Self or I Am Presence which is your
Real Self, for guidance and protection.
is bred of igp.açe or misunderstanding,
and causes worry over health or other conditions,
thus depleting the vitality. According to Dr. Hay it
is evidence of dvitdition due to toxemia.
])isease and Old Age"Do you fear disease, or
even catching cold? If so, that fear paralyzes your
natural immunity, lowers your vitality and aids in
bringing the disease upon you. For fear causes
wealmess, disintegration and hence weak spots, and
the weak spots ultimately break down and make gaps
which let the evil forces enter. The debilitating
effects of fear also cause sluggish functioning of
your organs and inability to produce their normal
secretions.
"Do you fear old age? Such fear generates the.
negative thought-pictures of old age, and you natu-
rally begin to react to them, whereas had you re-
alized that old age can be mellow, gracious, wisç
beloved and beautiful, you would be reacting to
those constructive thought-pictures instead of to the
negative, and would forget the years.
"Mere recognition of evil for what it isa mortal-
created negative and disintegrating center of force
2TIIe New Healtklni, Hay, 113.
'88 HEALTH HINTS
does not necessarily involve fear of it or containi-
nation by it. You are contnminted by it only to
the extent that you respond to and give it power over
you. And you do not have to respond. But if you
refuse to recognize mud in the gutter and do not
step over or go around it, you may be besmirched by
it." $
rimid Souls.Timid souls become so negative
that they fear everything new; fear the opinions of
their friends and all the dire predictions of the
neighbors, etc. This can be dvercome by taldng a
positive stand for the truths and laws you have
learnedthe laws of health for instanceand prove
your sincerity by following them out.
Over 99% of anticipated fears are groundless,
hence useless.
Anger.Anger is so extremely destructive an
emotion that it generates poisons in such quantifies
that they can be chemically detected in the blood.4
The milk of nursing mothers has been so poisoned
by fits of anger that their babies died. It raises the
blood pressure and literally makes you "hot under
the llar.' The saying, "I was so mad I could
die" has literally come true in many cases. There-
'See lesson Fear Not. Curtiss.
'It is claimed by some that if a person who has been
'furiously angry can be induced shortly afterward to breathe
into a chilled tumbler or bottle, a few drops of moisture from
his breath will condense inside the cold vessel. If this liquid
is placed on the tongue of .a cat, it will soon show signs of
poisoning according to the size of the dose.
EMOTIONS 89
fore, immediately check any tendency to irritable
expressions which may lead to anger. Irritableness
usually has its basis in toxemia and should at once
suggest a purge. Even resentment is disintegrating.
Resentment.One student wrote us: "I have
been very nervous for many years and have devel-
oped diabetes. Also I hold resentment against one
who should be my support and help but who has held
me back every step of the way." We replied: "The
basis of your nervous condition and organic inhar-
monies is largely a mental one, due to the fact that
you hold resentment. A careful study of our lesson
Judge Not, will show you that resentment is a very
disintegrating force. And since you receive back
the return current from everything you send out,
you have been devitalising yourself by every wave of
resentment you have sent out, as it returns to the
sender. No wonder you feel the possibility of
sudden illness or death; for you have been generat-
ing the forces which produce just such conditions,
and are being warned against them from within.
Therefore, you cannot expect full freedom from
nervousness, fear of death or from your physical
illness as long as you continue to send out the dis-.
integrating forces of resentment and the paralyzing
force of fear."
"Never mindwhat anyone has done to you. that
is past and gone, and will be taken careof by karinic
90 HEALTH HINTS
law in due season. It is holding on to it that holds
you back. Realize that no one can hold you back
but yourself, unless you are so negative and lacking
in courage quietly to assert your rights1 that you
permit it. Remember that you iust forget as well
as forgive; for as long as you are holding on to the
manory of the condition and your resentment, you
have not really forgiven."
Jealousy.Jealousy and envy are acidifying and
corroding forces similarto rust, but more virulent.
' "If we analyze our motives when inclined to speak
critically of others, we will usually find an element
of prid; envy, jealousy, fear or a desire to triumph
or feel superior to the one criticized. The Real Self
of us is never critical, is never envious of the pos-
sessions of others; for we have incarnated with
possessions of our own, The things in our environ-
ment are just those needed for our training and un-
foldment... Our Real Self is never jealous of
the attainments of others, for we incarnated to
manifest our own attainments, fa&dties and quali-
ties which we gained in the past Hence instead of
resenting the,success of others we should rejoice in
it, as they should in ours."
Laughter."Laugh and grow fat" is an old ad-
age that expresses a great truth. For all the con-
structive emotions relax nervous tension and
'Scud Lor free py of lesson Iwigs Not, Curtiss.
EMOTIONS 91
inhibitions, and stimulate all glandular activities,
equalize the circulation and promote assimilation and
repsir.
No ControversiesThe hostess unconsciously
recognizes this law when she is careful to select only
guests who will harmonize. For the same reason
controversial subjects and arguments are banned, for
any inbarmony or mental dashing will ruin the di-
gestion of the most compatible foods, while jokes,
laughter and merriment will help digest Óven the
most incompatible combinatioiibut it will not
neutralize their harmful end-products. (Sec also
page 50.)
Your ReactionsRemember it is not things,
people and conditions which make you suffer, but
your reaction to them And that reaction you can
control 1)7 a positive attitude of mind, and a reali-
zationtbatthroughthepowerofthelAmPresence
within, you are the master of them. -
"Realize that it is not your tasks or duties that
worry you or retard your evolution, but your afti-
tude of mind toward them, the permitting ofevery-
day trifles so to occupy your mind that you never
let them go.
Joys.."Joyful news makes the heart glad and
refreshes the body. The little joys of life are just
as satisfying as the little cares are annoying. While
you are facing thelittle cares, watch out for the little
-92 HEALTH HINTS
joys.... If you dwell in4iiie little joys, they run
together and soon break out into a mighty soul-
satisfying happiness which will be like a strong, deep
undercurrent of joy bearing you through all the
cares and sorrows of life."
Change."The law of change is the law of life,
and applies to peoples, civilizations, customs, ideas
and religions, as well as to physical forms.
Change is essential to all growth and progress, even
the change of disintegrationwhether of old forms,
customs, habits or thoughtsthat new and better
types may manifest."
You also -need a change of environment. A va-
cation or frequent little outings, even a walk through
the park, change the vibrations of your aura and
your attitude of mind. They enable you to make
new contacts and arouse new interests in life, thus
contributing constructive ideas, sensations, as well
as exercise, to the benefit of your health.
Recreation.Your changes should be construc-
tive and fun and joy producing. If so, they are
recreating. But they must be wisely planhied to in-
dude ample rest and relaxation. Many plan so many
activities on their vacations that they come home all
tired out. Make your re-creation the dominant
factor in all your changes.
Overwork.The man who "breaks down," or
The Powe of Isis, Curths,36, 5, 53.
EMOTIONS 93
has so-called neurasthenia, in middle life and the
college student who thinks he has ruined his health
by "over study" and who are benefited by a vacation,
are both suffering from bad habits of life. Chief of
these is acidosis and toxemia from wrong diet. A
course of acid and toxic elimination, with its attend-
ant relief of mental strain, will usually cure such
breakdowns in a few days.
Periodic Depression.Many women suffer pe-
riodic depression in connection with their monthly
cycle but if they will take a one day purge and fast,
just. before the period, followed by a low-protein
diet, all trouble can usually be eliminated. This
also applies to disorders of the dimateric period.
OptinibmiIt is not only your birthright, but
your duty to others to be happy. Keeping the body
free from abnormal products and accumulations
will make your body so healthy that, you will natu-
rally be happy. But you should also keep a positive
and harmonious attitude toward life. Realize that
seldom is anything so bad that it couldn't be worse!
Give thanks then that things are no worse than they
are, and go resolutely, positively and cheerfully
about remedying them.
Determination.The sun will rise every day,
whether you see it or not, and it will continue to
rise every day until the end of time. Each day is
a new day, a newincarnation. The old is past and
CHAPTER XI
SPIRIflJAL INFLUENCES
9enottrethetempleofGod.aajthat
the Spirit of God dwdleth in you? .. . for the temple
of God is holy, which temple ye are." -
I Co,iulhians, iii, 14 17.
"Come, 0 Lord of Life and Love and Beauty Thou
who art mpself and yet are God, and dwell in th35 body
of flesh, radiating all the beauty of Ili,.ei and perfec-
tion, that the flesh may out-picture all that Thou art
within." Prayers of She 0. C. N, Curtiss, 6.
While in this short treatise we cannot go into
detail, we may say that healing from the higher
rhiis falls info three general groups: Rcychic
healing or that performed by the aid of discarnate
doctors and groups of specially trained helpers in
the astral world; Faith healing, or that performed
by prayer and falth;Spiritual healing, or that per-
formed by direct invocation of angelic and cosmic
forces.
Psychic nduction."Many sensitive persons
soon develop symptoms of the malady with which a
deceased loved one passed oút. Such persons suffer
just as acutely as though theý really bad such a
physical disease... Such persons are simply
suffering from astral conditions unwittingly thrown
over them througlimagnetic induction by the de-
95
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES 97
amples of many, many other psychic sincere healing
circles in all parts of the world.
Invisible Helpers.Simil2r miraculous healings,
also other marvelous answers to prayer, are daily
being performed by the Order's band of Invisible
Helpers under the leadership of Harriette Augusta
Curtiss, with the technical assistance of Dr. D. Hayes
Agnew, former professor of Surgery at the Uni-
versity of' Pennsylvania, and the Masters who are
back of the Order of Christian Mystics. Many of
these marvelous cures have been reported in our
News Letters for over twenty years.
Noon Prayer Service.Every day at noon a
'Prayer of Demonstration Service" is held in the
Sanctuary at the Headquarters of the Order of
Christian Mystics in Washington. At that time,
through the use of our Healing Prayer ritual, we
invoke the spiritual forces from the higher spiritual
rlm and direct them to the students who have
written in for various kinds of help, until their
auras are filled to overflowing with the divine radi-
ance of the spiritual power the service invokes. The
names are also recorded by the Invisible Helpers, and
specialhelpofthekindbestsuitedtothecaseis sent
to each petitioning one often with marvelous results.
Prayer and HeUng..True prayer is an aspira-
tion of the Soul for union with the Divine. All
prayer to be effective must be accompanied by in-
98 HEALTH HINTS
tense aspiration to contact'God. It is a ray of
spiritual force from the heart which penetrates up
through all the lower rinis of the invisible worlds
to the spiritual realm with which it afllnitizes, the
highest the development of the aspirant can reach.
But it has to reach up at least into the fourth sphere
before it can contact the Higher Teachers, Masters,
Devas and other angelic Beings. They will come
down half way to meet you, but you must also reach
up to meet them half way. This is why selfish and
insincere prayers never reach higher than the earth-
bound ri1mq, hence are unanswered. For the an-
gelic helpers have no knowledge of you and your
needs until you tune in to the high vibrations of
Their consciousness.
The Return CurrentOnce make that contact
and you bring down the return current from what-
ev realm you have ntact'l- As your aspiration
passes upward through the various rhnc, its line
of light attracts the attention, first of your loved
ones who are interested in your welfare, then the
higher angelic beings and those Great Ones who are
assigned to that work and finally reaches the con-
- scioiicns 'of the Christ, focussed through the
Master Jesus who is the head of the Healing Hier-
archy. And He assigns to your help just those
beings, persons and forces which can best meet your
need, in accordance with karmic law. Throughout
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES 99
the history of nim1dnd there has always been this
telepathic communion with the Christ. His incar-
nations were only a part of His work.
He1ing Prayer."Oh Thou loving and helpful
Master Jesus! Thou who gayest to Thy disdples
power to heal the sick! We, recognizing Thee and
ro]i'ing Thy divine presence with us, ask Thee to
lay Thy hands upon us in hoiling love. Cleanse us
from all our sins, and by the divine power of Oni-
nipotent Life, drive out the atoms of inharinony and
disease, and fill our bodies full to overflowing with
Life, and Love, and Purity."3
'If your eyes could be opened to see the effect the
repetition of this prayer produces on the higher
planes, the forces it brings to your aid, you would
realize its beauty and its power. When you recite
this prayer sincerely the angels crowd around you
like flocks of doves, to ward off harmful forces and
protect the germ of your physical, mental and s-
itual life.
The One-Life."Upon the highest plane of
Spirit, life is the One-Life which can be nothing but.
perfection. The repetition of this prayer is like a
projectile fired through the earth's atmosphere creat-
ing a passage through which the One-Life must
necessarily flow to you. As it passes from plane to
plane it manifests upon the soul planethe plane of
3Prayers of the 0. C. M., Curtiss, 8.
100 HEALTH HINTS
creation and of redeinptionLs spiritual love. When
this spiritual lovethe Son of Godreadies the
physical plan; it manifests in the body as the Life-
force. Thus the Christ manifests on the spiritual
plane as the One-Life, on the soul plane as Love and
on the physical plane as Life-force.
"This is the rationale of all healing, and a thor-
ough recognition and realization of the presence of
this life-force, and its working out in a three-fold
manner, produces that harmony which is health to
both mind and body. It also hannoâizes conditions
in your environment.
Condenses Aura."Negative emotions produce
inbarmony and sickness by condensing your aura
and shutting out this force of life from you. If
you send a thought of hatred toward a person you
put a wall around yourself which only your own
loving thoughts and prayers such as the above, can
pierce and break down, and which shuts out the life-
force from you and permits disease to flourish.
Jesus Answers."Jesus, the high Master who is
at the head of the Healing Hierarchy, is ever ready
to answer suclra call as this prayer sends out. And
it is only such a call that can pierce the douds that
hide the earthly from the Divine, and make a channel
through which the divine healing forces can reach
you.
"When you say 'Jay Thy hands upon us in healing
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES 101
love,' it is a literal adaptation of the words, 'Thou
hast made Thine angels Thy handmaidens, and Thy
ministers a flaming sword;' for the angelic hosts
minister to all pure hearts who desire their help.
"The 'hands' which you ask the great Master to
lay upon your head are His powers to accomplish,
manifested through this host of angels who have the
power to carry His divine force to you.
Help Desired."Whenever you desire help, phy-
sical, mental or spiritual, either for youiself or
òthers, repeat this prayer, meditating on each word
and trying to realize its true meaning on all planes
of your being.
"As the Master Jesus gave to His disciples power
to heal the sick, and has never withdrawn that gift,
so every true disciple who firmly believes this, and
faithfully strives to manifest the Christ Principle
within him, has now the power, through the layin
on of hands,. (by the summoning of the angelic
hosts), to bring this One-Life into manifestation,
and thus relieve ills and promote health and bar-
molly."4
Faith Henling."Faith is a Soul memory or
inner conviction, even though inexplicable to the
reasoning mind, that everything manifesting in the
Cosmos comes from the Divine and descends
through the various worlds and realms of expression
4The Healirg Prayer, apter XXVI in Tile Vowe of hw,
102 HEALTH HINTS
to manifest ulfinttel3' here on earth according to
exact law. The greater this rli'tion, the greater
the demonstration. 'According to thy faith be it
unto thee? Absolute faith in your oneness with the
Divine enables the cosmic forces to flow into you
and your affairs and solve all your problems for
you, be it healing, guidance or supply.... Lack
of faith makes the Soul anemic and lifeless.
Have faith that that which has been planted within
shalt grow and bring forth abundantly day by day,
so that the substance of things hoped for shall be-
come the manifested evidence of things not seen."
Faith Needed.Afthough Jesus said: "All
things are possible to him that believeth," even He
found faith in Him necessary on the part of the
patient, for in His home town, "He did not many
mighty works there because of their unbelief."T
Quiet Time.We have repeatedly urged you to
make a period of prayer, of "morning quiet" and
consecration, the most important engagement of the
day. For it is an engagement to meet and correlate
with the indwelling presence of the Christ, rbnhing
His promise, "I am with you always," and relying
on Him in absolute trust, and in obedience to His
guidance and believing in it (Matt. xxi, 22), (SL
John, xiv, .13, 14), whether you consciously hear the
'ScM for free copy of the lesson on Faith, Curtiss.
'St. Mark, ix, 23.
TSL Matthew, xiii, 5&
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES 103
answer or not. If you do this, then you will be
given the power. And it will be given in propor-
tion to the intensity of your desire and your conse-
cration to it. But to attain it you must be willing
to let go of and consciously give up every known sin
or inconsistency. You must nntain right relation-
ships with all men;must willingly make amends for
every unkind word and make restitution for cvery
wrong done as soon as you are guided to do so.
Only so can you be spiritually free free from the
overshadowing, hampering consciousness of inl''r-
mony not adjusted.
Discipline.Keeping that morning tryst is a most
practical exercise which pays big dividends in tan-
gibi; physical results, health and suess. It is also
a test of the sincerity of your desire for advance-
ment. it is a test in self-discipline to see if you will
get up ten minutes earlier and take the extra time
for this communion and guidance. But to make it
effective you must take the attiude of, "Speak Lord,
for Thy servant heareth." Then you must wait,
not tensely, but relaxed and quietly, as if listening
to a loved voice, for the strongest impression or
idea that comes.
How Test?How can you tell that it is truly
spiritual 'guidan? Test it by these standards.
Does it go contrar3t to the highest standard or be-
lief you already hold? Is it absolutely honest, pure,
104 HEALTH HINTS
unselfish and kind? Does it conflict with your rec-
.ognized duties and resnsibilities to others? If
uncertain, continue to pray silently during the day
for light and guidance on that problem, or you may
talk it over with some friend who also gets his
guidance and can understand your need and give
you corroboration. Also write down the main ideas
and impressions which arise during your meditation.
Then at night see how far they have worked out.
In other words, look upon yourself not as a mere
mortal, but as a .r/iiritual being who 'is making a
short tour of this world and who must render an
account of his activities in this outer world each
night By following this plan you will gain certain
definite results in the way, first, of positive guidance
as to how to handle the chief events of the day
which you know confront you, whether they be of
a business or personal nature. Also you will get
reminders of things you should do; errands, letters
to write, visits to make, appointments to keep, etc.
You will get guidance concerning others and your
relation to them, sharing happy thoughts, saying
kind, cheering words, doing unselfish deeds, etc.
You will also be given warnings what not to do,
how the Inner Radiance will protect you from un-
desirable influences, etc.
Morning Prayer..Remember the Morning
Prayer: "I have within me the power of the Christ.
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES 105
I can conquer all that comes to me today. I am
strong enough to bear every trial and accept every
joy and to say 'Thy will be done.' Amen."
A Changed LifeIf health and long life are
thus restored to you, what will you do with them?
Will you go on living the same old thoughtless,
selfish, aimless, unplanned life? Will you. go on
making the same old mistakes and suffering from.
the same old results? Or will you profit by the
help offered you by this book and henceforth live
a changed life, not only physkallý, but mentally,
morally, socially and spiritually?
Know and Do.It is not enough for you merely
to know the principles and laws of life presented
herein. If they are of any importance to you, then
you will put them into practice. That means a
changed mode of life for you, changed habits,
changed mode of thought, motives, actions.
Decide Now.Make up your mind definitely to
follow religiously the suggestions given herein.
For no matter how good they are, they will do you
no good unless you apply them. Therefore, make
them a definite part of your daily routine, more
portant than your meals. And the rewards which
Nature and the Great Law will give you will be
beyond price.
Your Reactions.Why wait until you pass on
'Prayer: of SIze 0. C. M.Curtiu, 3.
106 HEALTH HINTS
from this life to look over, recognize and correct
your mistakes? Why not do it now and save the
unnecessary suffering you will otherwise have to
pass through? Never mind how others react to a
knowledge of the Law. Your reaction is the im-
portant thing. Therefore, determine that you will
live up to the knowledge you have gained and hence-
forth will work with the Law, or let the Law work
through and for you.
An Important Decision.Today for you is the
most important day of your life. thus far. You
have &en entrusted with all the information con-
mined herein, and you will be held responsible for
the use or lack of use you make of it. Therefore,
decide today. By deciding favorably you can look
forward to a prolonged, useful and happy life, free
from bodily ills and mental worries and other hand-
icaps to the manifestation of your Real Self and
living your real life.
Origin Divine.As we have said elsewhere:
"Our body is, indeed, an advanced animal organ-
ism, the most advanced of the whole animal king-
dom. But it is far more than an advanced 2ninhill,
for it has been evolved and prepared for a special
purpose, namely, the manifestation in the physical
world of a divine and spiritual Being who is far
above the nhnaI kingdom, the Spiritual Man made
'See Evolution id the Bible, Curths, apters iiiv, zm
108 HEALTH HINTS
of course utilize the functions and powers of the
animal body, but must control them and not allow
them to dominate us. We must eat and drink, not
because we love to eat and drinkalthough we
should enjoy doing sobut that our physical body
may be a healthy, happy animal, a more nearly
perfect instrument for our use. We must protect
it not only from physical harm, but also from the
devastating storms of inharmony, antagonism,
anger and other destructive emotion, and also
from the poisonous effects of incorrect eating and
of impure thoughts, so that our body shall be
kept as a holy temple, so pure, dean, harmonious
and holy that the Divine Self will have little diffi-
culty in manifestating through it.. . .Then His
radiance will flow outward and pervade our whole
nature, purifying, uplifting and blessing it and
making our whole body in very truth a temple of
the Living God wherein dwelleth righteousness."0
May the following of the teachings given herein
be a source of purification, understanding, health,
harmony, happiness and blessing to you.
1Sd for free py of the Jesson The Holy Td,npI. Curtis,.
CEAPTER XII
Food Combinations.Any food in column 1 or
in column 3 may be combined with any food in col-
umn 2. But do NOT combine any food in column 1
with any food in column 3, with the exceptions that
honey, being a natural sweet, may be combined with
fruits, and that almonds may be combined with any
other food, as they are alkaline-forming.
1 2 3
109
(dried)
Ceatnie
Ç::rPcoductn
Peanuts
Peas, (dried)
(winter).
T51310
Only at a
Preserves
Sujsr
Syrup.
Ta e milk wieb fruits and
vegetsbieecu
ooaeover C (80%)
ci your food frees ag
the vegetahies and hvitn
VATS
Anhenl
Avocadoes
BuUer
Cocoanut
Cod liver oi
Egg Yolks
Oily Nut.
Vegetable Oils
rp
Gelatin
Meats
Milk
Nuts (except
chestnut. and
peanuts)
AU Sea Food
AraT._Basz soons
________ Piutsa'
Peas, Cries (co.'s)
Beets CoencaCob
Corsets Cries
Celery Ecot Cuaimbas
IabheM -
Mauge Duke
wurtzel Egg Plant
Mu.bros Endive
On Grian
&bl& KaJe
(sming) Pumukin
Beet Toga Rhubarb Peaches
Speouts Swhecbsrd
Squerk
Cabbage Sauerkraut
CauI1wer T"r,
y (
S Fresh or driedsB hinds (except Plums)
Apphu
Apricots
Avocado
Berries (all ex-
capt Ceo.-
(dark skin)
Dates
3iga
Melooa
Pears
Pimwes
Ppr-
Pnmes (..am
Tangerines
LuNcnEoi
Monday
Cream of mushroom soup
Fresh beans steamed
Salad: Romain lettu
with French dressing1
Dessert: Orange and
grapefruit sections with
whipped cream
SUGGESTIVE MENUS
of compatible combinations
BREAXFAST SUGGESTIONS
Sedentary Persons
Fresh fruit or fruit juices (unsweetened) or oc-
casional toast and coffee with cream and sugar, if
greatly desired or if weather is very cold.
Active Persons
Crisp fat bacon, three or foui slices of toasted or
stale whole wheat rye or graham bread, well buttered
and with honey if desired. Or
I hole grain pancakes or waffles with maple syrup
or honey and coffee cr.çam and sugar.
Soaked figs or dates may be added to either of the
above breakfasts.
tAlways use lemon juice instead of vinegar.
2Ma be flavored with pineapple juice, but when used with a
starch 'neal sauerkraut juice may be used in place of lemon or
pineapple juice.
110
DINNER
Monday.
Vegetable broth
Roast thicken or broilers
Steamed carrots
Steamed spinach
Salad: Tomato, cucum-
ber, watercress with ripe
olives and mayonnaise
Dessert: Fresh red grapes.
- SUGGESTIVE MENUS 111
Hard workers may add: Baked Potato, Crisp Fat
Baco
Tuesday
Cream of onion Soup1
Steamed spinach (chopped
fine)
Salad: Cooked string
beans, green peppers
and tomato, with French
dressing
Dessert: Baked apples
with cream.
Hard workers may add:
Dessert: Date ice cream.
Wednesday
Tomato soup
Steamed celery root
Salad: Shredded carrot
and parsnips with may-
onnai
Dessert: Fresh green
grapes.
Tuesday
Tomato juice
Roast beef
Brussels sprouts steamed
Steamed wax beans
Salad: Shredded cabbage,
apple, chopped mush-
rooms and celery or raw
spinach leaves with
mayonnaise.
Dessert: Fresh pears.
Baked potato, sliced onions.
Wednesday
Cream of mushroom soup
Hashed brown potato with
onion
Crisp fat bacon
Steamed celery
Salad: Tomato with
whipped cream
Dessert: Maple ice cream.
Hard workers may add: Broiled T bone steak at
lunch.
Thursday Thursday
Cream of beet soup Vegetable soup
Steamed celery and leek Roast Lamb. Baked onion
1Various cream soups may be made with 54 cup of the vege-
table chosen, 54 cup of water and 54 cup of cream. Season
with vegetable salt.
112 HEALTH HINTS
Salad: Combination vege- Baked egg plant
table Salad: Beet, bean, carrot,
Dessert: Shredded pears pea and celery with
in whipped cream with French dressing.
nuts. Desert: Apple Sauce
with whipped cream
sweetened with honey or
raisins.
Hard workers may add: Whole wheat maaroni,
Lettuce and onion salad with oil, dates and cream.
Friday Friday
Cream of pea soup Vegetable broth
Broccoli with Hollandaise Broiled halibut or steak
sauce Steamed endive
Salad: Grecn pepper, to- Buttered carrots
mato and bermuda onion Salad: Cabbage, apple,
with French dressing celery and raisin with
Dessert: Slices Pineapple. mayonnaise
Dessert: Peaches and
cream.
Hard workers may add: Buttered whole wheat toast,
Sour cream cookies.
Saturday Saturday
Cream of ,spinach soup
Steamed wax beans with
Cream of pea soup
Mashed Potato
Sauerkraut
- mushrooms
Bacon (if desired)
Salad: Lettuce with pi-
Celery & radishes
mento dressing
Dessert: Baked custard
Dessert: Raw apple.
with maple syrup.
With lunch hard workers may add: hot sliced meat.
Sunday
Cream of parsnip soup
Fresh asparagus on toast
Salad: Tomato with
whipped cream
Dessert: Frozen custard.
Hard workers may add: Cookies.
Menus from the Sun-Diet Health Service1
Breakfast is preferably composed of fruit and milk
or else some form of whole grain breadstuff with sweet
fruit, or figs, dates or raisins.
LuNcu DINNER
Monday Monday
Scalloped potatoes with
onion
Steamed celery root
Mashed turnips
Asparagus tips on lettuce
with òil dressing
Dates.
SIJGGESTWE MENUS 113
Sunday
Tomato juice
Broiled live lobster
Steamed fresh green beans
Steamed broccoli
Salad: Lettuce with
French dressing
Dessert: Fresh fruit cup
Demitasse.
Vegetable soup
Poached Eggs
Brussels sprouts
Rutabagas
Sulad_ of lettuce, apples,
and raisins with
whipped cream
California grapes.
Tuesday Tuesday
Toasted whole wheat Carrot and onion soup
bread with butter Lamb chops
1The Master Key to Health, Alsaker.
Steamed carrots
Baked eggplant
Cabbage and celery salad
dressed with oil
Raisins and almonds.
Wednesday
Cooked brown rice with
creamS
Buttered beets
Spinach
Salad of asparagus tips on
lettuce with whipped
cream
Sweet pears.
Thursday
Baked potato
Steamed turnips
Carrots
Salad of lettuce1 cucum-
bers and radishes, oil
dressing,
Date ice cream.
Friday
Broiled mushrooms on
whole wheat toast
Steamed broccoli
Green'peas
Cauliflower with butter
sauce
Peas
Salad of lettuce, orange
and pineapple with
lemon mayonnaise
Apricot whip, with honey.
Wednesday
Vegetable broth
Egg omelet
Baked onions
Steamed green cabbage
Salad of lettuce and
French endive with
lemon mayonnaise
Baked apple or figs.
Thursday
Cream of lery soup
Cauliflower
String beans
Salad of raisins and grated
carrots with dressing of
lemon juice and oil
Sweet pears.
Friday
Vegetable soup
Broiled flsl
Tomatoes and okra
Spinach
114 HEALTH HINTS
co
SHORT BIBLIOGRAPHY 117
Master Key to Health, Dr. Rasmus Alsaker. $3.00
Nature Cure, Dr. H. Undhlahr. $2.00
One Thing I Know, E. M. S. $1.00
Ortho Dietetics, Henry James Broughton.
Perfect Sight Without Glasses, Dr. W. H. Bates.
$3.00
Royal Road to Health, Dr. Chas. A. TyrrelL $1.50
Sun Diet Cook Boolg Anna Lana Alsaker. $2.00
True Science of Living, Dr. E. H. Dewey.
Universal Health Restorer, Veni Cooper-Mathieson.
$1.50
Vitality, Fasting and Nutrition, H. C. Carrington.
A.
Abscesses, 39.
Acid, boric, 70; lactic 21;
stimulated, 6Q.
Acidosis, 61.
Adjustments, nces'y 6.
Age, old, 43.
A11r1htity, 61.
Alcohol, 72.
Anger, 88.
Appendicitis, relieved, 6;
treatment for, 38;
Appetite, 46.
Arguments, no, 31,91.
Arthritis, 39.
Astrology, 85.
Aura, 104.
B
Bathing, 11; sins-, 12.
Beyond Magazine, quoted, 96.
BbnWng, 70.
Breath, C2lthing, 15; Cleans-
ing, 17; SpirifitIng, 21;
Transmuting, ); Vitaliz-
ing, 19.
Bulk, ni.eila.d,21.
C
-Catarrh,43.
children; feeding of, 47, 53.
chewing, 54.
INDEX
118
chiropractic, adjustments, 7.
Classes, human 41.
Colds, 36.
Colitis, 39. .
Colon, spastic, 29.
Colonic, high, 29.
Combinations, food, 62-3.
Compatibility, of foods, 62-3.
Constipation, 23; of cells, 24.
Cooking, 66.
Crisis, 32.
D
Deever, Dr., quoted, 75.
Defects, structural, 2.
Diet, reducing, 56; retwu to,
33-4. Dr. Hay's, 109, 110,
111;
Diet and Ses, quoted, 45.
Discipline, 103.
Disease, definItion, 4; acute,
36.
Determination, 93.
Doctors, 63,75.
E
Eating, habits of, 64. -
Emotions, 78,86.
Endurance, tests of, 46.
Pnnt, habit, 34; high, 29;
preparation, 30-1 simple,
28;
Exercise, 8-9.
Eyes, 69.
F
Faith, 102.
Fasting, 47.
Fat reducing, 56.
Fear, 86.
Fluids, needed, 25.
Flush, citrus, 37.
Food, Chapt. V, 40; combina-
tions, 109.
Foods, classification of 42;
compatibility of 62-3; laxa-
tive, 26-7; processed, 65;
raw, 66.
G
Grace, at meals, 51.
H
Habits, 13,27.
Hay-fever, 39.
Health, 2.
Helpers, invisible, 97.
Heredity, 59.
Hindu Dietetics, quoted, 41,57.
How to Live, quoted, 34, 44,
73.
Hunger, 49.
Hurry, 50.
I
Idiosyncracies, 40.
IicompatIbilities, 60.
Induction, psychic, 95.
Influences, planetary, 85.
Influenza, 39.
Insomnla,71.
Invocation, 72.
Immunity, 3.
INDEX 119
Irish, quoted, 35.
I
Jealousy, 90.
Joys, 91.
IC
Knee-chest posture1 30.
L
Laughter, 90.
Life, the One, 99.
M
Meat, 52.
Menus, 110, 111.
Message of Aquaria, quoted,
21, 78.
Milk, goat's, 55; raw, 55.
Mind, attitude of, 85; in-
fluences of, 77-8; laws of, 81.
N
Nenman,.Theresa, 88.
New Health Era, quoted, 32,
36, 39, 74, 75.
Nudism, 13.
0
Odor, body, 26.
Operations, 39, 74.
Optimism, 93.
Origin, of man, 106.
Orthodietetics, quoted, 12, 54,
Ove work, 92.
P
Pack, hot or cold, 37.
Pain, 2.
Palliatives, 2.
Ptmfr.g, 69.
120 INDEX
Paralysis, infantile1 38.
Passions, stimulated, 44.
Patapar paper, 67.
Periods, women's, 45, 93.
Peristalsis, 23.
Plan, the Hay, 33.
Pneumonia, 39.
Prana, 19.
Prayer, effect of, 3,97; Divine
Mother, 21; Healing, 99;
Morning, 104; R.1i,2-
tion, 21.
Proteins, 42; stimulate pas-
sions, 44; vegetable, 52.
Ptyalin, 60.
Pulse rate, 16.
Purge, 32.
Purgatives, 29.
Putzifactiou, 23.
Pyorrhea, 54.
Q
Quiet time, 102.
R.
Radionics, 76.
Reactions, 91, 105.
ReoJnu of the Living. Dead,
quoted, 96.
Recreation, 92.
Recurrence, 7.
Regeneration, 84.
Reincarnation, 84.
Resentment, 89.
Restoration, 5.
S
.Salt, 57.
Sciatica, 6.
Self, the Real, 107.
Serums, 74.
Siegmeister, Dr. quoted, 45.
Sight, 69.
Sleep, 71.
Smile, 94.
Soda, 62.
Specialists, 75.
Starch, 53.
Stigmata, 82.
Sub-conscious1 role of 79;
train, 27.
Sugar, 55.
Suggestion, 82.
Surgery, 74.
T
Tables, food, 109.
Teeth, 83.
Test, guidance, 103.
Thanks, 51.
Thirst, 49.
Thought, 77.
Tobacco, 73.
Tonsilitis, 75.
Typhoid, 39.
V
Vw4n2tion, 73-4.
Vitality, footnote, 44.
Vitamines, 67.
Voice of lois, quoted, 17, 73.
W..
Walking, 9.
Weight, reduction, 55.
The Fellowship of the
Order of Christian Mystics
A non-sectarian spiritual movement for the promulgation
of a Cosmic and all-inclusive spiritual philosophy which
gives a satisfactory and scientific explanation of every
phase and condition of life both here and hereafter.
Christian in ethics, yet non-sectarian and universal.
Monthly lessons and personal correspondence on all vital
problems sent on the free-will offering basis.
If the teachings of the Order$ented in this volume
have interested and helpedjou, send for Descriptive -
Pamphlet.
F. HOMER ,BS., M.D., Sec'y.
3511 Quebec Str ' ., Weahlngton, D. C.
'ThE CURTISS BOOKS"
These books the of Christian Psychology and
Mysticism in P npreLrms and applied to the daily
life. Not mere theory and mataph ical speculation, but a definite
and comprehensible philosophy ollUo and Soul-growth, tested
through years of experience, which includes a ratiunal .pI....s.n..
of all forms of mysticism and Biblical Occultism. as well as the
vital and complex problems of modern life and .11 after.death con.
ditions.
There are perhaps no books on the market today which so ful-
£11 the needs of the wskened Soul who is seeking to know and
understand bow to apply the universal laws of the spiritual life
under present and coininq world conditions. While philosophical
and comprehensive in their scope, they also answer the beart.czy
for loyt, light and life.
Just the books to place in the bands of a friend who Is out-
growing former limItations of thought and old conceptions. Chris-
tian In their ethics, yet notsectarian,4osmic and universaL
Send 5 Icriptive Catalog.
THE CURTIF1hLOSOPHIC BOOK Co.
3510 Que N. W., Washington, D. C
1é
"The Cuitiss Books" Dispel the Mists From Myatfrlan
The VOICE OF ISIS
A TEXT BOOK OF THE SPIRITUAL LIFE
A Veritable Compendium of Christian Psychology, Spiritual
Philosophy and Esoteric Biblical Interpretation
Not cold, intellectual emays, but vibrant with sympathy, understand-
ing and comfort for those facing life's trials and problems, expbinhg
the reasons therefor and bow to mister them. Radiant with pracfcal
belp Takes fear out of the Bible.
CONDERSED TABLE OP CONTERTS
Life's Duties and How to Recognize and Accomplish ThemThe
Cycle of FnifflIm.nt. The European War Foreshadowed and Causes
Given Two Years Before It BeganDegrees am! Orders, and the
Celestial HierarchiesThe Wisdom ReligionConcerning the Doctrine
of Hell Fire, Takes Fear Out of the BibleThe Eleventh Command-
mentNarcotics, Alcohol and PsychismA Study of KarmaThe
SelfThe Doctrine of Avatara. A Clear Explanation of the Laws
Under Which the Christ May Be Expected to Manifest on Earth in
This Age, exposes the mis of the many Study of
ReincarnationThe Seven Powers of ManA Brief Outline of Evo-
lution, both Man and NatureThe Sevenfold LawThe Fornm
of World ChainsPurity, and the problem of sexThe Origin of Man,.
a clear explanation which reconciles Fmu4inpnf1ts and Liberals
The Symbol of the SerpentPurification vs. D1fitonThe Memory
of Past Lives, explains why so many think they have been great p-
sonages In the pastThe Cycle of NecessityThe Path of
Earth's Finer ForcesThe Descent of the LightThe Two Tables of
Stone, or Woman's True Place and Mission In LifeThe W.sThg
Prayer, and bow to use ftHow to Enter the SilenceNature's Mystic
Alphabet A Study of the Relation of Sound, Numbd, Color and
FormThe Word Made FleshIllumination--The Symbol of the Salt
Thou Shalt Not Kill, Covering the Whole Problem of Meat lfng
The Prayer of ConsecrationThe Meaning of the Symbol of the
!'The Curtiss Booke" Help You to Help Yourself
The VOICE OF ISIS
APPRECIATIONS
"Here we have a wise book.'Porgland Oregonian.
"Is the most valuable, yes, the most practical of any that has come
wider the observation of the reviewer.!'Joliet News.
"A marvel of erudition. Practical instruction accompanies well reasoned
theory at every turu."Thç Occult Review, London.
"Reveals with wonderful Simplicity, directness and convincing force,
Christianity as perceived by the light of the Secret Wisdom."Azotk
Magazine, New York.
"It is Indeed an epoch-making volume and almost every subject of
importance Is treated.. . and ClUriIIted beautifully. Verily those who
accept the authors interpretations. . . will be stndrnts of Universal
Religion."Kaipaka Magazuse, India.
"High Ideals are given upon sex and generation, and the book is
permeated with a large tolerance and loving service towards advancing
hunianity."The Master Mind, Los Angeles.
"It Is the pracfIil problems of life. . . that constitute Its we and
co'v"n»vI It to every earnest student."Th.Publjc, CMago.
"Altogether, this is a book rich In thought and suggestlon."The
4tnerican Tkeosopkbt.
"It contains truth of the highest spiritual order which the student of
Truth may readily lay hold upon."UnIty, City.
"Not only has the bock very favorably Impressed me through its
common sense way of treating subjects on which oocultists son»qinws
go wild, but I have almost Invariably heard the same expression of
opinion from others who have read itrRditor The 0. B. Library Critic,
Washington.
"Undoubtedly the best that baa appeared for some time. . . wrk
In a style both simple and scholarly."Newport Plain Talk.
"The greatest book since The Secret Doctzlne."J. B.
"The first and only book that gives me a feeling of complete sath-
faction as I ead."Mrs. S. S. B.
"1 keep It close and read it as some d their Bihlrs."Mrs. C. W.
"For me, your book Is the most Inclusive, popular, comprchenshe,
sane and bhnred. and saturated with that wonderful and lWlpful
____of understanding, sympathy arid love, which makes your bock
a living friend. Your spiritual psychology Is unique! - It has opened my
eyes."?. R. German edition, $311
Thirteenth Edition, 433 Pages, Piaborate Index. Price, $2.50
- Gennan Edition, $3.00
"The Curtius Books" Explain the Second Cnming
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
Not a aeuuel to The Voice of Isu, but rather a response to the
urgent cell for further and more advanced instruction concerning the
great unrest in world conditions, and thçir solution.
Also contains a reasonable and scientific explanation of how and
when and to whom the Son of Man will appear at the Second Coming.
11 only satisfactory exposition of this subject.
ÇONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
The Mystic Lifein nature, so in manhow to react to stimuli from
the Inner world as we now react to the outerThe Sign Aquarius
doctrine of cycles and ages.-.-the Sign of the Son of, Man in heaven
Are These the Last Dayscycles of Races and sub-race _nwning of
"the end of the world."Cofnets and Eclipseshow cosmic changes
affect the Earththe Sun-spot cycle and Its effectHalley's comet
ushered in Aquarian AgesThe Law of Growthbow the Ideal mani-
fests through the Law of Growththe dynaspheric force.BirtIz of
the New Agethe Water Bearerembodiment of the ChristHis
t4frqj,Jacob and Beaumeaning of the trickeryof Jacob's twelve
sonssymbology of the Stars and Stripesis America the seat of
the new raee?Mastery and tb. Mastersmeaning of mastery and
how attained_frmnh1m Mastersthe Great White Lodge.Mother
Earthher alchemyher seven layersorigin of Insect pests and plant
blightseffect of blood shed on battlefieldsThe Pow Windsuse of
4 hr the Biblecoining cataclysmsThe Three JohnsJohn the Bap-
tist, John the Beloved, John the Revelator.Children of the House-
holdthe Prayer for Demonstrationprotection from astral forces
astral chillastral diseaseschild trainlng.a'ffr'frig material supply
Man, Know Thyselfdivisions of manlaws of mindconcentration
on the solar plexustraining the subconscious mindthe superconadous
symbol of the carpenterof [lerodthe crudflxlon..Orderly Sequence
effect of order and dlsorder.The SpiroJ of Lifereason for changes
hr lifeuse of the Masters' namesLife Waveslaw of wave-motion
rhythm of the breathtidal wavesstorms of emotionmagnetic
variations of the Earth.Message of the Sphinxmeaning of the
scaraborigin of the Order of Christian Mysticscrypt beneath the
SPhinLThe Second Woelength of the four periods of the woe
false prophetsThe Day of Judgmentsigns of His coming.Law of
Sacrificesacrifice of the Sun in Nature--value of talismansvalue
of aaaffice..Thc Sheep and the Goatstheir symbologythe "other
sheep."The Mystic Oahorlgln and function of the dancerhythmic
motion Inreligious servicessymbology of Circle and Sun dances
origin of buflr and the MaypoleDryads and NaIa&The Tha-
usowd Newtformation of a diamondforces obtained from a din-
mondThe True Priestkoodsneanhig of priest, blerophant, prophet-
Meichisedec and Jesushow an Avatar manifestsHis near advent
partial Avatars or AVe.hUA New Testamentjesus' new testament
fl Curtisu Books" Gin a New Outlook on Life
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
symbology of "the upper chaniber"of bloodof the bread and wine.
Crossing Jordanwandering in the wildernew--dividing the waters
crossing dry-shod--Taking Jerkhosymbology of the ram's bonn-
why the walls felLThe Vain ShowLucifer--distinction between Lud-
fer Satan and the devilUniversal Center of the Solar Schoolthe
Luciferian SchooLFaith and WorksSun Initiation.Marswhy
Mars is redrelation of Mars and Venuswhy the Bible is allegoricaL
The Spiritual Birthplace of the spiritual birththe spiritual or
Nirn.nik.ya bodyThe Mighty Augel"tbis same Jesus ball so come
in like ln2llner"_Hls method of appearanceconditions necessarybow
to recognize Hlm.The Soul's Guerdonlesson of each Earth-life-
object of Incarnationvalue of ceremonies, observances, diet, etc.the
Lord from heaven.
APPRECIATIONS
"An admirably conceived and well produced volume, which shonki do
much to increase still further the wide circle of students to whom the
Christo-Theosophy of The Order of Christian Mystics makes so strong
an appeaL"The Occult Review, London.
"Have only got about one-fourth through with 'The Message of
Aquaria,' but the book Is so good that I want to put one in each of our
public llbrarles."R. H. W.
"The book makes Interesting These two authors are ap-
parently authoriti&'-$an Francisco JournaL
"These books are not claptrap utterances of shallow minds; they are
deep and sincere"Oakland Tribune.
"Quite apart from their great '"g to the world, the amount of
actual knowledge they Contain and the extraordinary high standard of
literary fimsh, together with perfect simplicity of language and style,
make this side of these works (the Curtiss books) without a jarring
note."A. A. B., London.
"What a tremendous work you have accomplished! How bnln.eLa.ly
important! Your works must certainly become more widely known all
over the world! The highest spirituality breathes through every mu-
teom. I am md at the spiritual value I have discovered
and am daily discovering In them. They are Soul-uplifting to an in-
credible degree! How blessed you are to receive these splendors from
the TifinD. Consciousness direct! You are two Souls specially faore4
by Heaven! With the greatest esteem and admiration, your friend."-q
Baron Albert Van dee Nailien, author of In the Sanctuary, etc.
Comjlete Inden. Fifth lidltion. Price, $230
wrhe Curtias Booka" uplain the Mystndes cl Life
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
"This work is not only the most comprehensive and authoritative
book on the sjgnißcan and spi,ituai interpretoiion of ,sumben aid
syssboir, but its 40 chapters contain more new, reliable and spiritually
helpful information on numbers, letters, the Tarot cards, the circle,
triangle, square, pentade, Seal of Solomon, the Commandments, includ-
ing the esoteric interpretation of many Bible and classic myths hereto-
fore little understood, also Masonic symbols, the Trinity, the RInMni,
angels, mythology, evolution, cycles, initiations, etc., than many sop-
aisle books on. those subjects."Balthuore American. P
Not a dry mathm,tical treatise, nor mere speculative theorhe.
Illustrations and confirmations from natwe at every turn.
Shows "That all personal experiences are expressions of the one
Great Law manifesting according to rnashtical principles, demon-
strating that the unfoldment of the godlike possibilities inherent in each
Soul follows, step by step, the same order of events that is followed
in the Cosmos."
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Origin of Numerical Systemsthe Symbol of the Circle, Ser-
pent, Kirk and Churchthe Druids and HyperboreansReund Towers
of jrphj4J_.TnÆnt' Use of Feathersthe Circle as the Egg and the
CatOrigin of the Dedmal SystemOrigin of the Druid Bonfires
and MaypoleWhy 1 Comes Phsthe Letter AlephThe Juggle
Origin of Constantine's Symbolthe Magic Wand and CrazierSoul-
marriageKey to the Universal Law of Sexthe Letter Beththe
High Pdestes,Jakin and BoasSolar CrossVeil of Isisthe 3 Great
Star StreamsOrigin of the Triangle and the TrinityDiagram of
Law of Marriage and DivorceTripod of Pythian PriestessNoah and
His SonsProphets in the Fiery FurnacePower of the Spoken Word
"Army of the Voice"The Letter GimilThe EmpressOrigin of
the Square, and Cross, SwastIkathe 4 Beaststhe 4 Windsthe 4
Gospelsthe 4 RIvers of Eden-40 Years In the Wilderncss-40 Days'
Fadthe 4 Castes of Manklnd$ Stages of Clvlliration-4 Forms of
Government, the last of which we are now enteringthe Letter Daleth
The EmperorDlfference between Sabbath and SundayRole of
SaturnS Pointed StarBeishazzar's VisionClairvoyance Not a 6th
SenseSymbol of the Crocodilethe S of the SlkbsAntI-
gonus' Vision of the PentacleEffect of a Reversed Symbolthe Letter
H.T1se PopeOffering Up Isaac-6 Days of Creation-6 Days of
LaborNumber 6 and the Elementalsthe Letter YouThe Mystery
of Creationthe 7 ElohImMusic of the SpheresColors of the Mod-
cal ScaleApollo's Lyrethe Pipes of Panthe number of Gestatlon-
the 7-fold Earth Chainthe 7 Races and Sub-races--the 7-fold Con-
struction of Manthe 7 Cycles of Lifethe 7-fojILBasisJgj(qonf,.._..
Mme. Blavatsky and Number 7the I Cliirc In AsiaNumbeiI In
Revelationthe 7-Pointed StarSeal of SolomonLegend of the Mlna-
tourof Phaetonthe 7 Principles of Man clearly expoundedthe I
14'The Curtlas Books" Renew Faith through Knowledge
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
Plelades and the I RishisMyth of Orionof Niobethe Letter Zai,s
The Chariotthe Number of Evolutionthe Octavethe 8th Sphere
.the Dweller on the ThresholdValley of the Shadow of Deaththe
Letter HethJustkethe Number of InitiationApollonius of Tyana
MeditationGenii of the HoursHigher InitiationsPlato and Num-
ber 9the 9th Hourthe 9 Musesthe Mystery of Number 9-
Syinbology of a Ropethe 144,000the Letter TethThe Hermit
the Number 10the Number of Completionthe Decadthe Sun
Abram and SaralZodiac Formerly had Only 10 SignsDiagram of
the Group-Soul--Meaning of the 10 Lepersthe Letter YodThe
Wheel of Lifethe Joy of CompIetioney.note of CreationGeo-
logic ErasNumber of Completed Earth, Man and Super-man.
APPRECIATIONS
'In this book ..11 the lore of centuries that baa gathered about the
number from 1 through 10 is set forth with a perfect wealth of
detail. . . This book Is easily the most complete and satisfactory
bringing together of Information that Is scattered in hundreds of vol-
limes not readily accessible."The Boston Post.
"It Is the most fascinating book I ever readPDe Cameras, New
York Sun.
"It certainly makes out a good brief for the significance of num-
bers, and one well supported by mathematics and music... . It con-
tains much besides the Ingenious showing of the curious corrpond.r.
of numbers."Springfield Republican.
"An elaborate spiritual interpretation of numbers and symbols which
supplements Middle Age deiverances In this field with Illustrations
from modern science, and comes near to relegating Pythagoras to the
shelf as a back number. . . . The treatise presents an amount of well
collected Information which no student of numbers and their form
symbols can afford to neglect... . The general aim is both ethical and
reiigious."Boston Herald.
"It Is deep and profound. As one goes into this vge of phi-
1osophy one becomes vitally interested, and even awed."Portland
Oregonian.
aThe person who has only an amused contempt for this sort of
thing will yet find a gripping interest in contemplating what it has
produced."Tke San Francisco Chronicle.
"Goes deeply into the philosophy of numbers and should be of
interest to all students of symbolisni-and Freemasonry... . Not a
mathematical dissertation, but replete with occult information."
Masonic New Age Magazine.
"Easily the most complete and satisfactory bringing together of
- all the lore of centuries that has gathered about numbers
set forth with a perfect wealth of detaiL"Boston Post.
Profusely illustrated with ten full-page plates, portrait .f Mrs.
Curtiss, many diagrams, tables, etc.
Complete indes. Sirth and '*vised Edition. Price $2.50
"The Curries Books!' Have Remodeled Men's Lives
The KEY OF DESTINY
A Sequel to Tb. Key to tb. Universe
This volume presents three revelations of supreme Importance, con-
cerning the origin of the Zodiac, the Labors of Hercules, and the
relation of the Sun Myth to the Christian religion.
Why is the Zodiac divided Into 12 signs and not some other number?
Why should there be only four kinaiit,, earth, air, fire, water? Why
should each have three manifestations In the Zodiac?
All the myths and allegories involving 12, such as Jacob and his 12
sons, also the 12 DiscIples of Jesus, and the 12 months of the year,
etc., are all based upon the 12-fold division of the Zodiac. But
nowhere in print have we found any philosophical and scientific ma-
son why the division into 12 was chosen, save In this voiwne. Truly
a momentous discovery.
Why should the peculiar ,r'Im*k used be appliedbto the Zodiac when
the forms of the constellations they embrace in no way resemble or
even suggest such nhnk? The reason Is found only In this volume.
Vitally necessary for all students of astrology.
Nowhere in all literatur, can the Interpretation of the 12 Labors
of Hercules be found. In this volume the authors not only give the
Interpretation, but connect each labor with Its proper zodiacal sign.
This one feature might well form a valuable book In Itself.
The universal Sun Myth has been the basis of the life-narrative
of every Sun God or spiritual Light Bearer sent to humanity. This
volume shows that this is more than a myth and why it is a spiritual
reality. These chapters are a direct rhtUi.nge to the so-called "higher
critics" of the Bible and a complete refutation of their chief daMs
against the Bible story. Of great Importance to all students of com-
parative religion, to ministers and to Bible students generally.
These are only a few of the many revelations of this truly wonderful
volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTERTS
Number 11, a New Beginning, the cycle of the advanced DIsclple
the Legend of Parslfalthe 11 year Astronomical Cyclethe 11 year
Sun Spot CycleGems and the ZodiaoUse of a person's Name-
NumberReincarnation and Transmutationthe Permanent Atom
Physical ImmortalityAttitude for Ung_Cause of Cancerthe He-
brew Lettersthe 144,000the 11th letter, Kaph.diagrams of the
Cycle of Manifestation.
Number 12, the Manifested UniverseGeometrical Law why the
Zodiac is 12 foldDiagram of Zodiacthe Aquarian Age.-Why were
the disciples called "Pithers of Men"?Orjgin of the 12 TrIbes.
12 Stones from Jordanthe 12 Dlsclples-12 Knights of King Arthur
the Last Supperthe 12 Baskets of BreadJesus at 12 yearsWhen
is Incarnation Coniplete?Incarnation In Various SignsMystery of
the Gold Desert-12 Hebrew Simple Letters-12 Body SaltsJesus, the
Piscean Avatar.
"The Curtha Books" Sathfy Both Head and Heart
The KEY OF DESTINY
The 12 Labors of HerculesRelation of Hercules and JacobKill-
big the Nemean LionKilling the HydraCapturing the Keryneian
DoeCapturing the Erymanthian BoarCleaning the Augean Stableg
_ifling the Man-eating Birds of StymphalosCapturing the Cretan
BullCapturing the Man-eating Mares of DiomedesSeizing the
Girdle of HippolyteCapturing the Oxen of Geryoneusthe Three-
headed Hell HoundObtaining the Golden Apples of HesperidesChange
from 10 signs to 12Wrestling with AntaiosMysterles of Eleusis.
Number 13Why Considered Unlucky-13 at a dinnerIts Real
ignffirnce.Tbe Savior GodMystical Meaning of the BibleHigher
Critics refutedthe Life of JesusNumber of Judas-30 pieces of
SilverMeaning of Playing Cards-13 Apparitions of Jesus.
Number 14Phantoms of the MlndEawaiian Sacred SharkLevia-
thanJonahUse of Perfumes.
Number 15Blood of the Lambthe Devil, How CreatedOrigin
of DiseasesRace KarmaPower of ThoughtDweller on the Threshold
Hour of Initiationthe Order of the 15Why EstablishedCon-
tacting the Mastersthe Holy GrailMessage of the Sphinx.
Number 16VictoryNature SpiritsEnchantsnents.
Number 17Disposing Intelligencethe Celestial Hlerarthles-144,000
Value of HoroscopesDiagram of the Hierarchies.
Number 18.The Second InitiationBlack Magiciansthe $ Sign
Symbol of the Swan or PelicanNumber 666 and the Beast.
Number 19Number of the SunTwice-born--Sun Eclipse every 19
yearsthe Ryperborean Land-Druid CollegesSun Initiationthe
Philosopher's StoneCenter in the Spleenthe SwastikaEquilibrium
of the Sexes.
Number 20Celestial InitiatorPower of the ChristReason for
Spiritual Development in Deformed BodiesDescription of the Pineal
Gland and the Pituitary Bodythe Fpnnina. Ray.
Number 21Incarnations of the Higher SelfMine. Blavataky's last
IncarnationSpiritual Majoritythe Crocodile.
- Number 22The New JerusalemSquaring the CircleLaw of Co.
operationAquathn AgeProphecies of Diastexs.Establlshing New
Conditionsthe Woman's AgeTaking Vows.
APPRECIATIONS
"They have collected a positive wealth of material about the sym-.
bolism of numbers. .. . You will find'here a positive treasury of in-
formation about how to climb to the ultimate 24tini,w.n+ "The Boston
Post,
Ten full-page plates, portrait of Dr. Curtiss, many diagrams, etc.
Fourth Edition. 322 Pages. Complete index. Price $2.50
"The Curtlsi Books" Solve the Riddle of Deathand After
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DOES THE PERSONALiTY SURVIVE DEATH?
is communication possible? Is there a safe and legitimate method?
This book gives a clear, scientific, satisfying and comforting explanation
of all after-death conditions, Including a clear explanation of the
problems unsolved by "Raymond"; "Letters from a Living Dead
Man"; "Patience Worth," etc. A rational, adentific, all-Inclusive philos-
ophy, not a mere mediumistic report.
Wastes no time with elaborate proofs of life after death. Written
for those who already know It to be a fact and desire authoritative
Instruction as to the details. Explains all methods of communication
with the Invisible.
Four added chapters on Protecting PowersIndependent Commu-
nications, examplesThe Aviator's Great Adventuri, a Message from
Quentin RooseveltThe AnnunciationA Message from LincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarian AgeA Message from SaturnThe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe CurtainAviator
returns.
You will find all your questions answered In this volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
Scientific proofsRiven of Life and Deaththe Seven Realms.
Realm of Reflectionthe Astral Doublethe After-Death Sleepthe
Awakening of the Aged; After BattleAstral HelpersTn'Han as
GuidesEarth-bound Spiritsthe Law of Thought and DesireDiseases
Due to Reflex Psychic ConditionsClothing, Houses, Amusements
the Method of MaterializationSouls Seeking IncarnatlonCondi-
tions Around the Prospective Motherthe Hall of LetheWhy We
Forget the Higher Realms at BirthLaw of Manifestationthe Outer
J)arkness"Weeping and Wailing and Gnashing of Teeth"Masses
of Color, Perfumes, SoundsHow the Flowers Are ColoredThought-
forms and Inventionsthe Pattern MuseumAeroplane Models and
Other Inventions to ComeOIsing EntitlesPsychic Cause of
DrunkennessExamples and the CureCrimes of 'IrresIstIb1e Impulse"
Lustful TemptationsControl of Sex DesiresDual and Multiple
PersonalitiesLoving Friends and HelpersSt. Paul's Injunction to
"Try the Spirits"So-called "Lost Souls"the Dweller on the Threshold
Sad Fate of the SulcideElementals--the Fairies, Nature Sprites
Their Messages and PropheciesHow Gold is FormedPsychic Realms
Diagrams of the Astral WorldDeath of the Astral BodySpirits
who "Progress to Higher Spheres"the "Hall of Learning" and the
Great Schoolsthe Great White LodgeWork of Mine. Blavatsky
ContinuesIndependent Methods of CommunionTelepathy, Clairvoy-
ance, Clairaudience, Clairsentience, Intuition, Inspiration, Theophany,
AveshaDifference Between Independent and Subjective Methods
"Spirit Contror'Subjective vs. Ecstatic TranceMaterialization-
Trumpet Speakingthe Oulja Board, Examples of Its Deceptions and
"The Curtiss Books" Explain All Psychic Experiences
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DangersSir Oliver Lodge's Warning as to Automatic WritingThe
Telepathic Method, Bible ExamplesSt. PauPs Directions to All Chris-
tiansthe Astral Chill vs. the Spiritual Fire, Chill or ThrillProtecting
PowersNegative vs. Positive StatesEnoch and the Doctrine of
TranslationAkasbic Recordsfour added chapters of Independent
CommunicationsThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a Message from
Quentin RooseveltThe AnnunciationA Message from LincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarian AgeA Message from Saturnthe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe Curtain.
You will find your questions answered In this volume.
APPRECIATIONS
"We can very warmly recommend this volumeBy far the nost
advanced book on the ssibjethKnickerbocker Press, Albany, N. Y.
"It is the Christian hereafter that is described with the classification
of the Astral World on a scientific baýj"New York Times.
"Distinctively allied with the Bible . . . really of essential value."
Springfield Republican.
"One of the most valuable passages of the book, and a really notable
contribution to the subject, Is on the treatment of drunkards and the
nature of alcohoL"Toronto Sunday World.
"We heartily recommend the chapter on The Desire Realm....
There Is much other useful advice and knowledge given, such as
regards suicides and the dangers of (subjective) mediumahip. The
chapters on elementals and fairies are extremely Interesting, and alto-
gether our friends the Curtisses have given us a very valuable contribu-
tion for occult study."Editor of Azoth Magazine.
"A great deal of exceedingly useful advice Is given to people regard-
ing their relation to their friends who have passed over. It is partic-
ularly desirable that In these times of death and sorrow peqple should
be familiar with conditions of life on the other side of the veiL
Toronto Sunday World
"A saner treatise on the After-Death life would be difficult te
find... . The Authors are perhaps world-famous for their teachings,
and this work should enhance their already great reputation....
Over 300 pages of sound knowledge and advice.. * . The space at
one's disposal cannot possibly do jusffëe to a work of this caliber,
and those who would delve deeper into this subject should not fail
to read this book." The Occult Review (London).
Can You Afford to Ignorant on This Vitally
Important Subject?
Sixth Edition. Wish New Appeisdu on Narcotics mid Prayers of
The 0. C. M. $2.50
"The Curtlia Book," iolve evolutionary problema
THE TRUTH ABOUT EVOLUTIOI$E'
and the BIBLE
A new and mrnnhiatlng cnncpt of evolution.
Revolutionary yet inspiring views of the whole Garden of Eden
story. A new interpretation of the factors rklmed by both sides of the
controversy and a rational basis for the reconciliatiou of religion and
science; of the Fundamentalists and the Liberals.
Profound, yet clear and simply expreesed. S4.fffir11y accurate, yet
not tiresomely statistical or unduly ter1in'"l Vibrant with deep spirit-
ual understanding and penetrating Insight into ultimate r1iH..' and the
fundamentals of both causation and manifestation.
Expands the mental horizon. Satisfies the head, yet thrills the heart.
A grasp of this book will enable one to '""n'th' his stand In any
company Answers all iuestIons.
Covers all phases, both biblical and scientific.
Cbapters o Science what It baa proved as to the evolution of forms.
Materialism. Not a sound philosophy. Accept Its facts, but not Its
conclusions. Mamfestation. Neccmity of a pattern and how material-
ized. Examples. Creation. The first Adam a-sated, the second Jormed.
Not the descendants of apes and why. Evolution not a mechanical
process. Spiritual radio-activity. Adam and Eve. Not parents of all.
How and why the separation of the sexes took place. Woman's place
and duty. Sex appeal. Garden of Eden. In all religions. No such
place even found. M.mln& Trees in the Garden. Meaning of their
fruit. Why banished? The &rpent Power. Why used as a symbol?
Sex not Impure. The Kundalini-force, effect on spinal cord and brain.
Unity i Duality. The Twain one Plesk. True marriage made In heaven.
Object of marriage. Trial and companlonate marriages. Supplementary
chapters on God, The Image of God, and Emmanuel.
APPRECIATIONS
"A new conception of evolution." New York Times.
"A new Interpretation of the factors m4 by both sides In the
controversy over evolution and the Bible" Detroit Free Press.
"The andlng, of science are well stated." Richmond Times-Dispatch.
"A new and enlightening contribution.... Contains a profound dis-
cueslon of the conflict between 5L4iw* and religion and offers an In-
teresting explanation." Spokane Ckroride.
"The writers unquestionably deplore the drift toward .,hntte,n, and
they wish to reinforce the drift to Spirituality." Boston Transcript.
"Written In a way to hold the Interest." Oakland Tribune.-
The place of woman as the compbin.t of man Is demonstrated.
Columbus Dispatch.
"The story of Eden and the modern social problems Involved are die.
cussed at length and with much Interesting comment." Buffalo Cowier-
Express.
"Written In simple, clear language the book gives a striking Impres-
sion of the process of evolution . . . In which man shares on all planes
It Is a source of light, a revelation to be welcomed by all suck as long
aid thirst for an understanding of the unity of all life and, to whom
"The Curds. Books" illumine biblical allegories
the Bible so far bad rp,n.hd obscure." Editor, Conde a Coude, Paris.
"The Curtisses in this volume have cast upon this subject a search-
light of profound spiritual perception, bringing light to many things
heretofore hidden. The book Is splendidly written, a rich mine of Infor-
mation, and we advise each one of our readers to obtain this valuable
and much-needed treasure volume." Editor, The Aquarian Age.
"Written with simple clarity and directness and reveals the profound
thought as well as the constructive religion of the co-authors." Bed-
letin, National League of American Pen Women.
"The old knowledge Is transfigured by the new and Inspired concep-
tion. Instead of the letter which killeth, we are given food for the
growth of the soul. Editor Psychic Science, London.
"You nmy take your Bible literally or otherwise, but you are bound
to find The Truth About Evolution and the Bible a stimulating and
thought-provoking book.... The sort of book that can be picked
up and dipped into' anywhereintensely readable from the first page to
the last." Editor, Occult Digest.
"The latest work from the inspiring pen of these two highly special-
ized students of the Scriptures, and the psychology of the Spirit, with.
all its symbolism brought down to earth, and presented in language
both simple and Impressive.... This book Is commended to all who
are interested in things of the Splalt and who are striving to widen and
deepen their understanding of symbology." Editor, Knowing People.
"We are always glad to see a new book by the Curtisses appear at
our desk. We stop work at once and read It, for the several books
Issued by these gifted authors thus far have always been not only
helpful but of unusual merit. ... We have enjoyed It. We have
profited by it. The dean, wholesome, sane, logical philosophy em-
bodied cannot fall to impress constructively. We affirm that it Is
dis-
tinctly good stuff." Editor, Mercuçy.
"The study of the Bible In the light of the above views ought to çn-
courage every t]thtHng Christian to a more rational and scientific view
of religion and must satisfy both his intellect and his heart.... We
look to this book therefore as of profound use and interest to all truly
religious." Editor, The Kalpaka, India.
"An addition to the well-known 'Curtiss Books' Is sure of a welcome
from many readers.... Much of the symbolism of the Bibleend
particularly of the creation story In Genesisis explained in an Ilium!.
noting style.... The chapters dealing with the sex problem and the
true nanIng of marriage. . . will no doubt prove helpful to many
people who 'are groping for truth amid all the conflicting theories
preached today - . . will Inspire and uplift all who are able to appre-
hend It." The Occult Review, London.
"It is always a pleasure to receive a new book for review from Dr.
and Mrs. P. Homer Curtiss, for the reason that their writings are at.
ways-direct and to the point, andwhat Is of the greatest usefulness In
this rather Inchoate fieldsimple and very readable.... The particu-
lar value of this volume - . . Is the consistent and Intelligent reference
to scientific authorities and modern points of view.... Dr. and Mrs.
Curtiss greatly excel In the symbohcal or allegorical school of Bible
Interpretation." Marc Edmund Jones, Editor, The Sabian Philosophy
Comprehensive index for students. Second Edition. Price, t2J
OUT OF PRINT
"The Curtis. Booka" expound a Cosmic philosophy.
COMING WORLD CHANGES
A rational sIlmn1ry of the many recent prophecies as to
world cataclysms, the value of such prophecies, and the
scientific and philosophic principles underlying such cyclic
changes in the earth's surface.
Not a pessimistic, hopeless and fear-producing volume,
but presenting. the underlying principles of the changes, and
a definite remedy for shortening "the days of tribulation."
chap. IProphecies of Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle and.
many others.
Chap. ILGeological Consider-
ations, the scientific aspect
Chap. IlLThe Philosophy of
Planetary Changes such as
soak Atlantis, etc.
Chap. IV.The King of the
World and the predicted
Asiatic invasion of Europe
Chap. VThe fleart of the
World. The relation of
America to world condi-
Chap. VLThe Battle of Ar-
mageddon. Psychic fac-
tors In the World War
Chap1 VILThe Remedy.
Based on scientific psycho-
logical principles.
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are noted internationally for the
profound scholarship with which they have studied the prob-
lems of ancient and modern mysticism.. . . The fact that
they predicted the World War, in a volume published two
years before the assassination at Serajevo, lends special value
to their dream of the approaching new era.. . ."
National Pictorial Monthly, New York.
If you wish to understand the finer forces operating back
of present-day conditions you need this remarkable volume.
Countless fulfillments of its propheciesexceptional earth-
quakes, floods, droughts, famines, etc.have occurred since
its first edition.
mi,a Hditlois, Art Board,. P,ijci $1.10 posi paid.
OUT OF PRINT
"The Curtlss Books" expound the laws of future events
COMING WORLD CHANGES
APPRECIATIONS
"For many years now 'The Curtiss Books' have been welcomed
by all earnest an& devout seekers of wisdom; and this volume is of
special value in the present World Crisis. There are many books
written .. . on these great changes . . . but few are of equal value
to this one." The Rally (London).
"Like all the other 'Curtiss Books' this is a deep and scholarly con-
sideration of the subject. . . An smjortant boole . . . and we hope
that each of our readers will secure a copy." The Aquanan Age
(Santa Barbara).
"In view of present tendencies It strikes a startlingly confirmatory
note.. .. Is it merely a coincidence that seismic and meteorological
disturbances of all kinds are now becoming so frequent and severe?
Needless to say that we consider the course indicated is one
which is worthy of every cnrnrni.ndation, and that. we can heartily
recommend it" From a four-page editorial review in The Occult
Review (London).
"Even when read with certain reservations as to possibility and
probability, one cannot but grasp the deep spirituality of the messages,
and to be assured of the earnest and sincere motives back of the
writing." Washington Post (D.C.).
"The book is well written and clear; and much credibility is lent
to the prophecies by statements of geological changes already in
progress. . . . The book handles the spiritual side of coming world
changes as saliently as it does the physical, with a beautiful short
chapter at the end called 'The Remedy.'" Theosaphical Messenger
(Chicago).
"Full of deep spirituality." Hull Evening News (England).
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are exceptionally gifted writers in their
peculiar fielda field of Oriental mysticism lighted by a Western sun.
Coining World Changes is a remarkably interesting volume." Gho
Stories (New York).
"The work done by Dr. and Mrs. Curtis; as set forth in this little
book, deserves recognition from all fellow-workers." Canadian The-
osophist (Toronto).
"Any addition to 'The Curtiss Books' is very welcome in the library
of the occultist because of the unusually sincere and constructive na-
ture of the work carried on by the doctor and his wife." The Me:-
sage (Los Angeles).
"With the advent of each new 'Curtiss Book' we reasonably expect
further researches into truth, and we are not disappointed.
Much spiritual pabulum is developed in their new book, which we
take pleasure in commending." Mercury (New York).
Dr. F. Homer Curtiss and his brilliant wife1 joint authors of a
number of famous books on philosophy, believe a remarkable change
is impending.... They have dared to prophesyNational Pictorial
Monthly (New York).
"The Curtiss Books" Solve Sex Problems Nmsfl
LETTERS from the TEACHER
These letters from the Teacher of The Order of Clirietia.s MyHc,
in answer to questions coining from earnest and intelligent students
all over the world, touch just the practical questions that arise in
the daily lives of all who are itiiviug to live the. highpr life.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
L
IL
Volume I
Spiritual Growth and De-
velopment.
The Masters of Wisdom
and Their Work.
Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
Prayer and Its Results.
The A3trai Plane.
Psychic PinMnPn2
Is and Visions.
Health and Disease.
The Sex Problem.
Miscellaneous.
Rech volume contains en-
tirely different letters covering
different phases of the subject
mentioned in the other volume.
Volume L Sixth Edition Price $2.00.
Volume IL Srcnnd Edition Price $2.00.
Volume II
Health and Disease.
Psychic, Conditions.
The Law of ICarnia.
Coming World Changes.
Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
After Death Conditions.
Prayer and Its Results.
Health and Disease.
Fhit,t Problems.
The Sex Problem.
Marriage and Divorce.
Discoumgemeat
Jesus and The Christ.
"The Curtlu Books" explain the problems of daily life
LETTERS from the TEACHER
APPRECIATIONS
"Among the many occult volumes before the public, aiming to assist
students who desire earnestly to master lower appetites and devote
themselves seriously and successfully to the culture of true spirituality,
I know of none more useful and admirable than the work now be-
fore me."W. I. Colville.
"Many Biblical and other lems are handled clearly and con-
vincingly in a manner that wa the instructor to be one sure of
the position taken, desirous of imparting helpful knowledge to all
earnest inquirers, at the same time leaving all students in fullmi.nf1
liberty.Mystic Light Library Bulletin.
"Another interesting contribution to the department of occult
science."Portland Oregonian.
"The letters of advice1 of which this book is near1 full, bear every
mark of culture1 of sincerity, and of a lofty thought. San Francisco
Argonaut.
"The book is pervaded with the spirit of loving service. Every
question receives a clear and careful answer which must have satisfi'e4
the inqulrer."Aenerican Theosofhist.
"There is no subject in the book that is not treated in a manner
so interesting that it is hard to lay it down, but when the chapter en
The Sex Problem is reached there is found some strong food for a
strong man with a strong mind. The tone of the whole subject is
Purity. It is the sort of a book the student wants for reference."-
ßdrmwds Paul Jones.
"Its warnings against the dangers of psycbism, and its frank and
rational discussion of the sex question . . . are to be amunended."-
Editor 0. B. S. Critic.
"The beautiful truths expressed in beautiful diction cannot help
but appeal to the soul which is seeking the higher things of lii."-
Unity.
"I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for the comfort
that has come to me through your Letters from the Teacher. I felt
the moment the book came into my hands .111cc one who had come
home at lastto a wonderful home for which one had been long and
earnest1 seeking and praying and longing.... When one comes into
the realization of ones dearest dreams, knowledge is instantannous-
there is no doubt."M. C.
"I find your books the most helpful I have ever read. They are so
liveable and meet the wants of life. Words are so inadequate to ex-
press my gratitude."Mrs. B. H.'6.
Vol. II, New letters covering other subjects, including special chap-
ters on Sex, Marriage and Divorce, Financial Problems, the Christ
mid the coming World Teacher, etc.
"The Curtis. Books" Ar. Exhaustless Wells ci Fa.JniHng Materiel
Newt Just out! In June of 1935. Mother large volume. The
Authors' latest work. A companion to THE VOICE OP ISiS and
THE MESSAGE OP AQUÅPZÅ
THE INNER RADIANCE
Forty splendid chapters cwrering almost every phase of the mystic
Iii; occultism and spiritual philosophy from the stock niarloet col-
lapse and the depression, and the remedy, to the zodiac, the 4Mnentalsj
dMne fire, redemption, King Arthur and his knights, King Desire, and
the Christ Star.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
The Inner Radiance: that mysterious power which Dashes all things
on to perfccfnn. The God Man: God in the process of manifestation
in men. As vs the Days of Noah: pbnets returning to similar rela-
tions and imilar conditions today. How to master them.
Spiritual 0-operation: a Jaw of the universe. Man and the Zodiac:
how the 12 signs are represented in man. The Lord from Heaven:
bow the spiritual men descends into the human. The Soul Language:
the inner language of spiritual consciousness. Trwssmjgratiois: the
doctrine, the atoms. Not reincurnation. Cosmic Causes of World
Conditions and the Remedy: Cosmic and Kammic factors, Dr. Curtiss'
lecture before the Chamber of Conunerce. The Mystic Rose: why a
srubol of Divine Love. The Great and the Small: all things are rela-
tive. The Lords of Karma: the events of life neither fate nor pun-
ishment, but opportunities. Redemption: the esoteric doctrine. Why
necessary. Reliance: of the outer upon the inner. The Great Work:
the mystery of spiritual alchemy. King Desire: his meaning and
mastery. The Mystery of the Elements: the conscious forces back of
Nature. Hymn to the Elements. Mais and the Ekinentals: rle of the
Undines, Sylphs and Sahm2nd.rs. The Realm of Re-ness:
the mystery of Being from non-being. Satm,j and Cj,ciic Law: ròle
of Saturn as tester and Initiator. God, Man and the Planet: their re-
lation. The Book of Remembrance. The Third Eye: functions of
the puieal gland. The Mount of Attainment: the end of the Path.
The Round Table: symbology o( Kinç Arthur and his knights. Di-
vuseFire:flreoflif;ofznind. Cosnncflre. The Glor of the Lord:
how recognized and contacted. Lessons by the Way: the ancient con-
tments. Lesson of the sage-brush. Nature'. symbology. The King of
Glory: where and how he reigns. The Christ Star: the shepherds
and the Wise Men. The five points. Preparation: for the Second
Second Edition with full index. Price $2.5(L
.f Order all of "The Curtiss Books" direct from
CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
3SÇiebcc St. N. W. Wasliington,D. C.
"The Curtis. Books" Are Life-long Friend.
APPRECIATIONS
"The majority of the forty chapters which comprise this work con-
cern the revolutionary changes through which humanity i. now pass..
ing, and their spirtualiy erudite contents should do much to allay fears
which tend to flood the mind through lack of knowledge.... Of
whatever they treat.., the authors are nothing if not supremely
helpful. As Christian mystics who work strenuously for the dissemina-
tion of greater spiritual knowledge among all races and creeds, Dr. and
Mrs. Curtiss write with wide knowiedge and experience, and their view-
points and suggestions should prove both Interesting and encouraging to
those who view with apprehension the religious, social and political
upheavals which would appear to some to be the visible signs of -an
angry Deity's vengeance.Occult Review, London.
"I have enjoyed all of your books so much that somehow any other
literature has lost its value for me. I am quite satisfied to read and
enjoy it, as it Is so constructive, lovzng and truerMrs. S. H. W,,
Indianapolis.
"This is the 18th volume of 'The Curtlas Books' and measures up to
the best teaching put out by the well known authors.... The forty
chapters include several chapters '4'Hng with present-day conditions in
the world.... The book helis one to better understand from the
spiritual standpoint, the revolutionary changes through which humanity
is now passing"The ,Aquanan Age.
wThere is no need for ignorance in the world today.... The Inner
Radiance brings into one's consciousness the Why? of .11 questions,
and their answers! It Is food which If earnestly partaken of by the
student will result In good digestion."Mrs. M. E. W., Washington.
"This is the latest of the numerous publications of Dr. and Mrs.
Curtiss . . . the purpose of which is to make religion a practical and
vital aid in the conduct of life. Its membership ranges over some 70
foreign countries and Is united only by specific hours of devotion and
Intercession."Springfleld Union and Republican.
"Permit me to add my tribute of praise to the great volume you no
doubt have received from the production of The Inner Radiance. It
is a fit companion to the other 'Curtiss Books,' and I believe shows
a deeper spzritual insigist than possibly Its predecessors.... I will
not rest until I can successfully correlate with the true Inner R2aie.
Mr. H. S., Toronto.
"It Is a continuation of the inspiring and practical teachings to be
found in the long series of volumes Issued by the authors; which com-
bine a firm adherence and Interpretation of our Bible truths with a
deep and extensive knowledge of tksesoteric teachings of ancient and
modern times. It is couched In plain, Intelligible language, and its aim
istobeofservicetoallwhoareontheupwardPath,andareinneed
of counsel and encouragement in the difficult and crucial period through
which we are passing Many most abstruse subjects are discussed
with utmost simplicity and fr&nfr'r"Tke Rally, London.
The Twentieth Volume of "The Curtiss Books"
ViTAMINS
Thai, Oigbs, Inspo,taace and Spedflc Uses.
A most Important pinpMt just Issued by Dr. Curtiss suppm.nthig
his well known volwne, "flh Hints for Four-Fold Health."
Experimental research has shown that If there Is a deficiency of any
of the vftnhi or mineral salts In the diet, this deficiency upsets the
eli..m4ry of the whole body and snakes It Impossible for the organs to
perform their functions normally. Hence If certain vit.mhie are hrHng,
certain definite dii"".id conditions arise, such as rickets, nasal,, sinus and
N4i4..i Infections, gallstones, goiter, diabeim, tpm1, paralysis of
Beriberi, pyorrhea, loss of appetite and weight, arthritis, rheumatism,
ulcers, varicose veins, hemorrhoids, angina and other heart conditions,
Insomnia, frigidity, sterility, eczema, cataract, enlarged prostate, quarrel-
ao'", nervous breakdown, etc., result. These conditions are rapidly
relieved If not entirely cured when the lacking v1"nin' or cell-salts are
supplied, In addition to the other conditions recommended In our «Four-
Fold Health."
- The specific effect of each vitamin Is fully described In nont.i4infr1
language, arid the sources from which it can easily and Inexpensively be
obtained are listed.
It gives the basic physical factors underlying many mental, nervous
and psychic, as well as bodily disorders, which If corrected allows Nature
to complete the cure without operations or drugs.
An Invaluable aid for all who are suffering from any bodily, nervous
or mental .lhnnt. May give you the key-note and remedy for your
C(1ofl. Puce postpaid only Soc.
TOWARDS THE LIGHT
By PRINCESS MARY KARADJA
E4 Founder of The White Cross Union. Author of King Solomon, The
S.ven Sacraments, etc.
4 The fate end redemption of a w'4dn told in Inspiring blank verse.
14 "A noble "g from the Great Beyond." Pall Mall Gazette.
( "This poem Is a powerful m&i"flon on the theme: 'Whatsoever a
Ct. man sows that shall he reap!" Aberdeen Daily Jownat.
"The story Is told In dramatic and moving language. There Is a.
Li.. chain of circumstances powerfully described." light.
Q "Will appeal to the r"""' reader as well as to the Metaphysician."
Glasgow Times.
"Her Majesty Queen Almevha has graciously Infhn.ted her pi.ane
In accepting a presentation copy." Light.
King Oscar ci Sweden read It aloud at a reception in 1901.
,. Mr. Stanford of California presented 500 copIes to the free libraries
of Australia. Swedish, Danish, Dutch, Finnish and German r,UHasii
have apveared in "''tf"n to Pnglhh edition.
To the Authors knowledge this goom has saved at least fifteen pm.
goat from s""ð". Price 5.50 postpaId.
The following are three new volumes of this series:
PRAYERS 01? THE ORDER OF CHRISTIAN
MYSTICS
A collection of inspired and Inspiring prayers for .11 cc-
caaiooz and for every need and mood. Published in handy
form for the poc*et or the hand-ba& and accessible at *11
times. By its regular use all mey experience the manlfold
blessings and joys, the protection and comfort of the spiritual
forces which these mystical prayer' lnvokf.
Ad Psj.r, bc; LassIe? $1.00.
TUE MYSTIC LIFE
An Introduction to m7stiCism and a clear iosition of its
mra'.ng, Its scope and its Importance In the dsclj life. Con.
talus on "How MvsIidm Solves the Worlds Prob-
lems. Tfe Path of Disclpl'eship. 1lluminatlo. The Mystic
aI.t. Recommendatiosis for Daily Living. How to Form
& Study-group etc.
Art PaN?, bc; Last!,.,, $1.00.
THE LOVE OF RABIACCA
A Ta.ccznr an Five Aces
blAf1tiIt of a pe.bistori race, paydikafly
ACT L The Battlements.
Aex IL The Mountain Side.
Ace IlL The te Temple.
AcyV.SceneI. The Rite of Naked Sword.
Scene ii. Thç Flaming Pyre and the Prophecy.
Ad P4f(0C Last!,.,', $1.00.
C[JRTISS?IÇ1LOSOPHIC BOOK cO.
3510 QuebecýW. Washngt, D. C
"The Curtiss Books" Blaze the Trail for the New Age
The GEM SERIES of BOOKLETS
Ideal Gifts at Any Season. Handy Pocket Sizea
GEMS OF MYSTICISM
___$5leCtCd from the writings of Dr. and Mn. Curtiss.
L Spiritual Grot".' ¶i Karma. IV. Reincarnation.
V. The Christ. VI. of vlI Mhc.l1neous.
"One might wade through the religious phUnsnpMvbgs of every people
and place and not receive the Inspiration one will get out of a ten-
minute perusal of this little book."BaUimore American.
Fifth Edition. Art Paper, 50 Centr; Lir4.Leather, $1.00
THE SOUNDLESS SOUND
A Prose Poem of Devotion and Meditation
"Whatever one's creed, every soul Can eat and drink of a book full of
loving helpfulness, that comes as unpretentious as a song-sparrow, as
quiet as a hidden spring, as soft as an odor-laden zephyr, with song, re-
fsrjhvit and delight."George Wharton James, Editor "Out West."
Fourth Art £dition. Paper, 50 Cents; Zim Leathe,, $1.00
THE TEMPLE OF 8ILEN(E
The most Inspiring treatise on M!##Ln and entering the Silence.
Practical working directions given.
The Great SilenceEntering the Silencethe Noon Sil.,i Service.
Thhei FdlSio,i Art Paper, so Coats; Limp Leather, $1.00
German Edition. Pages 75 coats,
THE DIVINE MOTHER
The latest and most beautiful gem of the series.
The Divine Motherthe Bringer Forththe Mldidgbt Prayerthe
Waters of IÅfethe Comforter.
Third Edition. Art Paper, SO Cent,; Limp Leather, $1.00
Send for Descriptive Catalog of The Curtis, Books
Order "The Curtiss BOOkS" Direct from
j ?THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
$*ebec Street, N. W., Wathlnjton, D. C
I,
U
t\
(
I
(
{s
s4%
%
'
'!.
.
.
.
'..%
.
.'
tt
c
%
.,.'.
c..'..
1..
....s,
.
<
A
%
.
,
,
,_
s
..
,
.,
,
S
'S.
..
'
(
4\
%4%
(
,
(%
(
I
I
4<4'4'\
"
<
I
4
444
4
4
4
4<i4
(.
44(44,(4
(
1
I
4
4
4
"
4
(4
('
4
44
44
44
1
s4
(4
4
4
(.4
4.1,4
,
,
.
4,4
',.I'C
..'
...,<,(,(
.,4,(
.44
4.'
4.s
.
s.
4.'.....
.4
14(41444<444
4(4(4
44(44(44
<'4
<
<
S
C
1
4
44
444
44(4'((44(L
44<1(
4
4<44
44(
4
I
'6
4<
44«4
4.(;\''.'<.
44
(4<
,
'4_'
.4'.,
4444<4((4(<I<t(\<
<44(44<
414
(4
4
44
4
4
44
44
41
(((444(4(4%44<4444444<444(44l444444<4(
44<
.
((I
4($
14
<44
4
4(4
4<
4<4
4.4.44
(44(1.4
(4
4
(s
s.4.(.l
4
.
,;
,s
.,(
,4.
,
,
..
ç,
,
,<.
,,
,
,
,.
.4
,4
S
'
4
4.4
.,
4
4(<Ç1(«4444«,4<4<(4444<
<4<(4(
<<
l(4(4(
4
<4
4
6
4'
'44
4
(4
4
4
4
I
4
14(444(4444444<4.,1.4(4<44444<
44
(44
4
4
4
4
4
4
(4.444
4,4.4.1
41
4
.(
4
.4<
4<4
i
4.c
1
.
4..
'
.,'..
c,$(
.,..,
14.4
.,,44.,,.
4
,.,
4
,,..(
..
4
4
444
44
.4<
(<((4
(4
4
4
4
4
44
4
44(44
((4
((4
4
4444
44
1
4
4
<
4
4
4
4<6
I,,.
*
,4.(,4
4
4.'
44.14
,,.(
(4,44.414
,I
4
4
'.
',
.4
..
s
.44.4,4
%,'.6
.',.
'.4.'
.
',
._'.
.
...
.5...
(1((<44(44(;<*444($441((t\64(%446(*141(44
(4<
4'<
444(44*144
4441
44
4
4
4
4(4(414
1,(
,
4,4
1,6
4.
'.
i
4
4
1
46
4
1
4
.
4
4
4
'
4,4,4
s
,
4
'.
I
...
,
.
.,.
4
,,,
<
44(44(5
4444444
4,%',(
4
44.i(4
I,I,4
4
4
4
4
44
,4,4
,
4.
4.
4
.
;:
..
.
.'..
:,
,.,'...
4
(14
.4<44
444(41444.4444
<4;(
<1
4
<4(46
1(4
444
44(444
444444
4
4<
44(4
.4
4
1
44
4.4<
4
4
444,44
(44
44(44
444
44444
<
(44
4<
44<44
44444
44
4414
4
4
4
4
(44444444(44
«444(144
4
4(4
44<1«
«((*44
414(1144<
<44S
<<
6444
(4
4<
4(4*
444<4
(4(4<
((4
,A4<
4<s
'.4
4
1444.4
<I
((.4
«.4<
...,'
.'
s
.,4
.4.'
'-'1........'.'.'
.'
.'
'
'
........
1,44(44
((444(41444
444
4444<44
(,44((4<(
<44<4
4444444<141444
4<
4
4<44
44
4
4
(4444(4<44
44*(4,44444<444<%
41
4(4(4
444
41
4
44
l444
4
4<4<
444((
4444<
(4
4
«
44(444(1(14(4.4<4
4
4<4(
44<4
(4;(
4
4<
4
4
<<c<
1%Ç
4
4
44<
(1(4444
(4
4
4
I
<«<
4(
4<<
4<
<<
'(
1'4
>
(4<
4
444(4
4(
4'
4
1
(4/
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
5
4
I.
S
4
4
4
6
I
1
4
4
((4t(14444<44t44(SC(4(*((.
<,(I,Ç444<(,4(4<.44S
44.4
.(.
','.4
'4
<
.
4<444<4j(
(44(4l(4(441(<4(4<444(4(((<4S4(
S
<4(4(46
44
(
(14
4(4
44
(
4<
'<
4
44
444
44
4
4
4
4
4(41(44
<4
4(*44(4<(444.4<q
4
44<((4414(
4
((14<
44
I
(1<4444
1t4
44
<
4'
(4
4
444.1<
(
<(44
441
(.4.4
4414
4
4
4
4
1
C
,
4
(II
4
,
4
4
4
.4,
,
c4(,,4444(((414<(((C(4$
444(44(44
(4444
644*4(4<4
(14(44
C<
44(44(44444(4(14(4
44((44(4<544(
(4(41
<<(4
(1''4((
4144
«
44(444
4
64<
4
((1
4
4
4
((
4;4
(4<
4
4
44(4(4<4444,414
<4(1(4
1(4
1(14(4
1(4
((44
44
1
4
(4
44<4444<4
44
414
44(1444<.
(4«((1
4<<(<14'
6<4
((4
<s
44<44
4(1
4<
4
<
4
41(44<44(445C44(4
(1(444(((t(444%((C(
(44(4
c<(4<(((<
4<4444
4
(45((
((
4
44
466(44
444
4
4
4
4
<((,414((44l4<S<4{
(1
4(44*(14'444((1(l4(
(4<
44<
644
44
(<(<4
(4444
«
4
(44
I
.4
4
4
*
4
(4
4
*'(1<
(14<44<
(((((44(4
«
(4
1<4
(
4
(4
(1
<4
4'
(1<
14
4
4
4<
4
4
(44
444
444C444(4(4.4(44«(<(44(4(
(4
<4
<(1(1(41
1
(<(4(44
«4
«
(1
(1
41<
<44
1
44<
«
«
4
4
((1<
'4<I<
<'
6(144
4<
(1'
44
<
4<4
4
144(44
6
i<<i5.4<i4<4
4((.4j4(((14<4(444
4<
4(
4
14
(14
4'
4(1
4(4
4
4
4
(1,,
(1<
(
<
4<4
(4
4
4
4
1<444444(446(441(14<444441444(4(44(44<
(1((444<
<<
4(4
4<
(4
144
4
44<
4
44.
(4(
11,,44
(4<44((<44(
(4<
(4.444<4
444
4<14
<4(t(((
(4%
44
'6
4<
4
(4<(<4444(44<(4444<14444<444(4<
(444
«
((44(444444
((4.Ý
4444444
4444
(4<4
4
4
(
44
(15
4
4
1
-
.44
.<,,4..
,l,4,
..........'
.,
..
I..
I
4<
1'4
«i4'<
((4<
4/
<
(1
4
"6
44'(4
4
«4<
44(4(4
4441
4
44
<:
44(4
4
4
4
4
44(444*4
<(4(4444
(6(444
.44(4<4(4444
1
1,6<
.
.
/
14*
4
'4
4
...S
.
4
4'.
1
4
.
I
.
.
'
...,.
4
.
4
s
(4
4444(144I(t..(4<.'((
.4(14444(14
(<(4<
4
4<44
4
44
(444(4
44
446(44<4(444(4
(A
44
4,4
4444(
((((('4'
4
(44
(((((44
41
(4<
(444
44
J(
4
<
*
444(
444<444«444(6(4(((4l,4444«144<.454
44(4<44441
<4
«
4<4
(4
'144'
44<
<464
(14
4<
4«
<I
14lÇ
(4
(1444f4<
4
4(444l.(
(1/44(4<(4(4<
4441(1
44
<(414
(;4
4%
4<
<
(4
(
4
44(
4<
4
4
4
4
4
((4444
6
4(4(44(444(4
444.444(44
<(4
((4
(4
41
(
i<4
44
<6<4
444<
(4<
14
4
('14
6
I
(4
14
I
I
(44
(jl
4.,'.
44
4
444,
(64,
(<444
IA
.64
-.,(44
Cl_,
,1
4.1
..
<.4.1.444
.4.'
.44
.
..
(..'..,1...
'..',.
.
s,............
C
44l4(4(4
(4,
(44<444544,44
«14
%4'.'(4(<(444144(
1<
<144(4(4
4
4
(11
4
4
4
4<
4
4(111
4
4<
44
<444<44<I44<4<(<
44444444<(4(4(44144<4<(44<{414
444(45(1
44(4<4(4
4<
44
(4<4<
1i4
<4
44<4(44
(<q
4
4
(4
<4<(,4<
4<4<(444(4Ç4«(4<44
444444(144444
(4
4«
14
(((44(4(6<
(4
4
1,
,
4
1
,
44444441(444444(444444(14
Ç
44<444(4*44(4<44<441(6(4444414<1<6(4
(*4(14(44
4<
(14
<44
,(
464
4
4<
4
4
/
1
4
4
444<644444<'44(14
<<«
464<(44.,$(((4((444444444(*(14.4<4(f((4(4<
4(14(4<14
411,
4
(
'4<
<
4f((
(44414(4(44
I4<
4
4
44444
*4
4((
4(.4(4
<44
(t46(4<444(6(4<
1(1
444
4
4
<
<1
.
(4
44((*<4(4<(4444(44444(*.4s4<44(.4((4/((((4
44
4<<4
<
<
4
(4
1
4<4<
4
<
<
(4(4<444i4$Ç4<44(44
l<l44
44(44<4
4'<&,
:
4
4
4
4
,
'<
(44<(4</'44<(4444<'44<444<'(<(
4441444</
14<44(1<44</t
(444<4'
'(
I
14
*
4<l
4444(4(4444<4(4<444((44<4444<4(«4
(4144.54
(1
((4<44<444
1<4
446,4
4
41(4<4
<4
4
Ç
4
4
4
4
<4
S
'
4.4
.
,.4
55*
4
4
