{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__cummins___the_scripts_of_cleophas.pdf","mytitle":"The Scripts Of Cleophas","mylang":"de"}
THE SCRIPTS OF
CLEOPHAS
A Reconstruction of Primitive Christian Documents
. Recorded by
GERALDINE CUMMINS
With a Prefatory 1
Yote by john Lamond, D.D.
PART I
Special Edition for
THE PSYCHIC BOOK CLUB
144 High Holborn, London, W.C.r
First publi$hed FtbrOUJry 1928
St<MUI Edition Novemlur 1928
Tllird Edition July 1938
PRINTED IN
GREAT BRITAIN
BY GILBT. WHITEHEAD
AND CO., LIMITED,
NEW ELTHAM, S.E.9.
PREFATORY NOTE
INTRODUCTION
CONTENTS
THE FIRST PARCHMENT
CHAP.
I . THE TRIAL OF PETER
II. THE CHOICE OF THE TWELVE
III. THE CHOICE OF MATTHAIS
IV. PENTECOST
V. THE MIRACLES OF PETER
VI. PETER CONFOUNDS THE HIGH PRIEST ANI) PERFORMS A
PAGB
viii
ix
II
I3
15
17
20
MIRACLE 22
VII. THE STORY OF ANANIAS AND SAPPHIRA 25
VIII. THE ARREST OF THE DISCIPLES 29
IX. THE DISCIPLES ARE DELIVERED FROM PRISON 3I
X. ]AMES EXPOUNDS THE CHURCH OF CHRIST TO THE ASSEMBJ:,Y 32
XI. THE INTERVENTION OF THE SOPHIST GAMALIEL 36
XII • GAMALIEL ADDRESSES THE ASSEMBLY 39
XIII. JOHN THE DREAMER, GAMALIEL THE SOPHIST, AND SAUL 42
XIV. SAUL IS CONFUTED BY STEPHEN 44
XV. THE INCREASE OF THE CHURCH : THE AP.POINTMENT OF
THE TREASURERS • 47
XVI. FURTHER MATTERS CONCERNING THE POLICY <OF THE CHURCH 50
XVII. STEPHEN RAISES A CHILD FROM THE DEAD 52
XVIII. THE STONING OF STEPHEN 54
XIX. THE SHADOW OF PERSECUTION
XX. THE MURDER OF THREE DEACONS BY SAUL
XXI. SAUL'S HAND IS STAYED: HIS FAILURE TO KILL THE
59
62
APOSTLES 66
XXII. tHE CONVERSION OF SAUL: HIS BAPTISM AiS THE APOSTLE
PAUL 7I
XXIII. OF THE DIFFERENCE IN DOCTRINE BETWEEN 'THE PHARISEES
AND THE SADDUCEES 74
XXIV. PAUL MAKES PUBLIC AVOWAL OF HIS CONVERSION 75
XXV. THE CONFOUNDING OF SIMON, THE SORCli:RJtR OF SAMARIA 78
XXVI. PAUL AND THE HIGH PRIEST: PAUL's SCOURGING AND
FLIGHT 81
XXVIl . THE STORY OF DORCAS 89
XXVIII. THE TEMPTATION OF PAUL IN THE WILDERNESS 96
vi CONTENTS
CHAP. PAG:E
XXIX. PAUL'S DEALINGS AT PAPHOS WITH SERGIUS PAULUS, TilE
ROMAN GOVERNOR, AND ELYMAS THE MAGICIAN
XXX HEROD'S DEALINGS WITH THE SECOND JAMES AND WITH
PETER: HOW THE ONE WAS SLAIN AND THE OTHER ESCAPED 103
XXXI. THE DISCOMFITURE AND DEATH OF HEROD 108
THE SECOND PARCHMENT
I. THE ORDEAL OF BARNABAS AND MARK IN THE TEMPLE OF
THE MAGI
U • THE DARK HOUR OF MARK AND THE MIRACULOUS HEALING
OF ELYMAS
III. DISSENSION LEADS TO THE CAPTURE OF PAUL AND HIS
COMPANY BY ROBBERS: THEY ARE SET AT LIBERTY 122
IV. THE VISION OF THE YOUTH WHO WATCHED PAUL IN PRAYER
ON THE HILL ABOVE ANTIOCH 126
V. THE HOSTILE ELDERS OF ANTIOCH: PAUl. AND BARNABAS
PREACH IN THE SYNAGOGUE 128
VI. THE GENTILES FAVOUR THE PREACHING: THE DESIGNS
AND JEALOUSY OF NAHOR ARE REPROVED BY PAUL 132
VII . NAHOR POISONS THE MINDS OF THE WOMEN OF ANTIOCH 136
VIII. THE EXPULSION FROM ANTIOCH 139
IX. THE WORK AT ICON1UM STRBNGTHENED BY THE MARVEL OF
THE FINDING OF WATER 142
X . ON THE ADVICE OF THECLA. PAUL LEAVES !CONIUM • 146
XI. PAUL AND BARNABAS ARE AT FIRST TAKEN FOR GODS AT
LYSTRA: THE TERRIBLE DYING AND RETURN TO THE
BODY OF PAUL I5I
XII. ON THE ADVICE OF TIMOTHY, PA-qL LEADS THE BRETHREN
TO DERBB; GAlUS APPOINTED SHEPHERD OF THE FOLD
THERE 154
XIII. PAUL's TALK WITH THE CAPTAIN ON THE VOYAGE TO ANTIOCH:
PAUL's INTERCESSION SAVES THE SHIP PROM DESTRUCTION I57
XIV. PETER AND PAUL TAKE DIFFERENT SIDES IN 'THE DISPUTE
ABOUT THE POSITION OF THE GENTILE CONVERTS IN
TiUt CBVRCR AT ANTIOCH 16o
XV. PAUL IS REPUDLATED BY HIS FATHER 167
XVI. PAUL PLEADS THE CAUSE OF THE GE NTILES IN SAMARIA 171
XVII, AFTER MUCH DEBATE PAUL IS GIVEN POWER TO FREE THE
GENTILES FROM THE OBSERVANCES OF THE LAW 174
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
FOREWORD
I. PAUL TOLD TO GO TO PREACH IN MACEDONIA: THE BRETHREN
CONVERSE CONCERNING THE BODY ON THE VOYAGE TO
NEAPOLIS
181
CONTENTS vii
CHAP. PAGE
II. TU TEACHING AT PHILIPPI AND T~E SLANDER OF THEMBSIUS 191
III. LYDIA AND SILAS: MEDITATION OVER PHILIPPI: THE
BRETHREN FIND SHELTER WITH A SLAVE
IV· LYDIA COMMUNES WITH HERSELF, AND DETERIIliNES TO
BE BAPTIZED : HER INTERVIEW WITH TBEMESIUS: SHE
SHELTERS THE BRETHREN
V • THEMESIUS BAS RECOURSE TO l>JAGIC
VI. SYNTICHE CAUSES ELKANA TO BE ASHAMED: PAUL REPROVES
HER PRIDE
VII • THE EMPLOYMENT OF MAGIC WORKS AGAINST THEMESIUS :
PAUL EXORCISES THE SPIRIT POSSESSING THE MAGICIAN's
MAID : THIS LEADS TO RIOT
VIII. THE CIVIC PRIDE OF THE CHIEF MAGISTRATE OF PHILIPPI
WOUNDED BY THE RIOT; PAUL AND SILAS PUNISHED;
LYDIA's INTERVENTION PRESERVES THE CHURCH
IX. THE EARTHQUAKE MAKES IT POSSIBLE TO ESCAPE: THE
J AlLER's CONVERSION
X. SYNTICHE ENLISTS THE GOOD OFFICES OF JUNIUS
XI. THE VISIT OF JUNIUS TO THE CHIEF MAGISTRATE
XU. THE MAGISTRATES IN PERSON RELEASE PAUL AND SILAS
XIII. LUKE's GRIEP OVER PHILIPPI
XIV. LUKE RECOVERS THE MAGICIANS' MAID APTER SHE HAS
BEEN BEATEN
XV. HOW THE MAGICIANS' MAID WAS PRESERVED
XVI. TBEMESIUS CAUSES TROUBLE: THE HEALING OF CLEMENT
XVII. LUKE FAILS TO HEAL JUNIUS
XVIII. THE ENCOUNTER ON THE ROAD TO THESSALONICA
XIX. PAUL'S FIRST PREACHING IN THESSALONICA
XX . PAUL CONTENDS WITH NETHAN
XXI. EVAGRIUS AND THEONE
XXII. THE FURY OF NETHAN
XXIII. THE HEALING OF DAVID: REACTION AGAINST PAUL
XXIV. DAVID SLAIN IN RESCUING PAUL FROM THE JEWS AT
THESSALONICA
194
198
200
203
205
209
2I.f
219
221
223
226
228
232
235
241
244
246
248
251
256
259
XXV. EVAGRIUS, JASON, AND AZIZA BEFORit THE POLITARCBAI 267
XXVI. TIMOTHY DISSUADES PAUL FROM TURNING BACK TO
THESSALONICA • , 272
XXVII. EVAGRIUS MOCKS DEMAS' IDEA OF BOW TO SERVE CHRIST:
PAUL SOJOURNS IN BEREA 273
XXVIII. THE SUCCESSFUL DECEPTION OF EULIA CONFOUNDS NETHAN 's
SCHEMES; HE TRIES TO CONTRIVE PAUL's MURDER 275
XXIX. HOW NETHAN 's PLOT BECAME KNOWN: IT IS DEEMI>D
BETTER THAT PAUL SHOULD LEAVE BEREA: BE TAKES
SHIP FOR ATHENS
INDEX
280
283
,..
I know personally, Miss Cummins, through whose instrument-
ality The Scripts of Cleophas has been given to the world. I have
personally witnessed her writing and can testify that copy amount-
ing to upwards of 1714 words was produced in one hour and ten
minutes. From my· own experience of writing this was altogether
supernormal. Miss Cummins makes no claim to special knowledge
of the period (Apostolic) of which she writes.
Eminent theologians and other authorities have witnessed the
production of parts of these Scripts.
The editors, whose names I am not permitted to disclose and
who are responsible for the Introduction, are recognised scholars
representing the Church and the Universities ; and I fully endorse
their views as to the intrinsic merits of the book. I read it with
an ever-increasing interest. Should it be accepted at its face value,
it will become an epoch-making volume. The writer sheds fresh
light on the labours of Paul and the other Apostles, and gives a
new meaning to several passages in the Acts of the Apostles which
otherwise would be obscure. But above all, it is valuable in adding
additional testimony that Jesus the Christ was a real person, the
Founder of the Church which bears His Name.
JoHN LAMOND, D.D., Edin.
May 31st, 1928.
INTRODUCTION
THE volume here presented to the public is only a first instalment,
in itself self-contained and complete, oi the first three Scripts of
Cleophas, which consist of a long series of scripts produced through
Miss Geraldine D. Cummins, but purporting to be ultimately com-
municated by one Cleophas, a Christian convert of the first century.
MissCummins, thedaughterofthelateProfessor Ashley Cummins,
of Cork, has achieved distinction both in sport and in the literary
world. She has played hockey for Ireland, and is an enthusiast
for tennis ; at the same time she is the author of a novel of Irish
peasant life, The Land They Loved (Macmillan, 1919). and also, in
collaboration with Miss Susanne R. Day, of two Irish peasant plays,
Broken Faith, produced at the Abbey Theatre, Dublin, and Fox and
Geese, produced there and also at the Court Theatre, London. Miss
Cummins has contributed to the Press articles on matters con-
nected with the theatre, and has reviewed novels and plays for
literary papers. Having a view to the content of the scripts, it
is important to remember that, though Miss Cummins has read a
great deal, her reading has been confined, for the most part, to the
works of such modem writers as Shaw, Galsworthy, Yeats, etc.;
she has never studied theology, theosophy, philosophy, or Christian
origins.
The production of every word of The Scripts of Cleophas has been
witnessed by Miss E. Beatrice Gibbes, a lady whose main interests
are music, gardening, and travel. She has visited Australia, New
Zealand, North and South America, India, Japan, Greece, Swit-
zerland, and other countries, but never either Egypt or Palestine.
She is a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society and a reader
mainly of books of travel. Miss Gibbes made the acquaintance
of Miss Cummins early in 1923, and states that she has never been
in the least interested in early Church history, or in the Church,
and professes ignorance of anything appertaining to either.
The first sittings with Miss Gibbes began in December 1923,
when Miss Cummins could only write for a quarter of an hour at
a time,as her "power" then gave out. The time gradually increased,
until she could write for two hours without interruption, and in
ix
X INTRODUCTION
December 1925 the writingwas continued over a period of two hours
and twenty minutes. Normally, Miss Cummins is not a rapid
writer, and has to work rather laboriously, and with many cor-
rections, to produce 6oo or 700 words in a couple of days. When
producing these writings, Miss Cummins places her left hand over
her eyes, the elbow resting on the table ; the right hand is thus free
to hold the penciJ over a wad of single foolscap sheets. In a few
minutes she appears to lapse into a condition of semi-trance, and
her pencil travels over the paper rapidly, producing legible and
perfectly intelligible script. Someone at her side removes each
page as it is covered, exposing a clear sheet. Generally this writing
is without pause or correction. No "t's" are crossed, no "i's"
dotted. as the pencil never leaves the surface of the paper. The
speed attained, as contrasted with Miss Cummins's normal rate of
writing is very remarkable. On February r6th, 1926, 2,230 words
were written without a pause in one hour and thirty-eight minutes,
On March r6th, 1926, in the presence of four witnesses, 1,750 words
were written in one hour and five minutes (equivalent to r,6r5
words per hour). On other occasions over 2,6oo words of close
narrative that required no correction have been written at a sit-
ting. The speed of writing and the length of the sitting vary with
the physical and mental conditions. The usual time of uninter-
rupted writing is a little over an hour and a half.
The editors have satisfied themselves as to the genuineness and
disinterestedness of the part played by Miss Cummins and her
associate, Miss "
Gibbes, in the production of these records.
In origin and in subject, the chronicle will probably suggest to
many c;omparison with the revelation of "The lowly life and bitter
passion of our Lord Jesus Christ and His Blessed Mother" made to
the German Augustinian nun, Anna Katharina Emmerich, and
generally received by Roman Catholics as diyinely inspired. Since
the first edition of these revelations appeared"
in 1833, many further
German editions have been exhausted, and translations have
been made into English, Italian, and French. Eminent Catholic
theologians and divines have examined the work both as a record
of fact and- as claiming to be a revelation, and the verdict is that
the details, where they can be tested, are unquestionably correct,
and the inspiration indubitably genuine. Such a decision appears
to strengthen the case for the present publication. The verifiable
facts of geography, history, terminology, and such-like strewn
up and down the following pages, have been to a considerable
extent examined by expe·rts, and pronounced accurate and sound,
and some examples will be given later in this Introduction ; the
editors feel, moreover, that, on the same principles of revelation,
INTRODUCTION xi
those expert theologians who approved the German work would
probably not hesitate to place this present publication in a similar
rank. In some respects, the case is stronger here than for the
other. Sister Emmerich Q,arrated her vi~ions to the poet Clement
Brentano, who noted down.only the chief heads, filling out the story
from his recollection. He certainly read over to the nun.the pages he
had written, but it is obviously not improbable that the revelation
owed something to him beyond its actual form. No such second
intermediary occun; in the transmission of what is here reported.
Neither Miss Cummins nor the editors have interposed anything of
their own. The matterof thisbook is not the writing up of something
revealed only in the mind's eye, or by narration; it is, in its actual
form, a dictated message, the direct transcript of an unseen original
of originals ; it therefore merits all the more serious scrutiny and
examination.
The editors do not claim any authority for these documents,
and do not here attempt to offer any explanation of their origin,
though they are convinced that the suggestion which might be
made by followers of .Dr. Morton Prince, of subconscious memory
on the part of Miss Cummins, is altogether divested of probability
by what is said above of her interests and education, and by what
they personally know of these in fuller detail. The only claims
they do make are for the fidelity of the transcription and for their
·own disinterestedness in the publication. The narrative is trans-
mitted through the "Messenger", who is not its actual author. He
demands from Miss Cummins mere receptivity and passivity. At
times he talks as a scribe to whom another is giving the words, and
sometimes complains that his words get "twisted" in transmission.
But "words" is not to be taken too literally. It is rather that a
thought is communicated through the vehicle of the words and
images stored in the memory of the writer who acts as intermediary.
"If the spirit of the hand that writes is prepared and rightly shaped,
then it will receive the true story of an ancient happening." 1
The whole attempt at communication is made "at ~he bidding
of" one Cleophas, or Clopas, who :,;, however, "too far removed
from man to commune with him."
Indeed, in this communication there are stated to be seven
scribes who are guided by Cleophas, and the "ancient word," which
they possessed in purity and integrity, is shaped by them into a
form in keeping with modem thought and expression.
The "Messenger" states that the chronicle he is now setting forth
1 The quotations given in this Introduction are from the scripts; some are
from portions not included in this volume.
xii INTRODUCTION
was known in the Early Church, though only a few copies existed,
and these have perished ; but he also speaks of Cleophas as drawing
from more chronicles than one, and of himself as fashioning the
whole into a single chron)cle. As the "Messenger" puts it, Cleophas
''plucks from the Tree of Memory all these matters that had been
within his knowledge," gives them to the Scribe, who gives them
to the "Messenger," who enters into the thoughts of the writer,
"drawing from the words I do find in this floating mind that is
about the handmaid. It containeth many words, so I shape my
talfY in the words I thus find.'' In this mind the thoughts brought to
it by the "Messenger" are reflected : "It is a mirror which is more
than a glass; if there were not words within the handmaid's mind,
the thought we cast upon the still pool would not be imagined there.
So it is hard for us to give you a word or name that doth not lie
within her memory." For this reason, mention is occasionally
made of the difficulty of the transmission of proper names.
Later communications from the "Messenger" have provided the
interesting information that the original writings from which these
chronicles are drawn were put together between sixty and seventy
years after the birth of Christ, though certainportionsareofslightly
later date. Their authors were men who had themselves seen and
heard the Apostles, and who wrote, for the most part, at Ephesus
or Antioch, using either Greek or, less frequently, Aramaic or
Hebrew. Whether these facts, supplied by the "Messenger," furnish
any criterion for the documents here presented, must be left by the
editors to the judgment of those competent to decide.
The "Messenger" represents himself as one who in his lifetime on
earth was a man of rather exceptional knowledge, especially of
Oriental languages, and at the present time as unusually fitted to
utilize what he calls the "heavy brain of man" to transmit his
conceptions. He disclaims all kinship with great men, but does
claim to have travelled much, to have preached to "barbarians in
southern lands," and to have been much in Rome. A singular
point is that he seems unacquainted with the actual conditions of
things on this earth ; e.g., he does not know about the invention of
printing, as evidenced by his insistence that "scribes" should
make many copies of his communications, and he admonishes us to
be watchful, "as scribes make many errors." His laudable pur-
pose is that we "should live once again the lives of sorrow and peril,
wonder and beauty, of the brethren and followers of our Lord, that
faith in our Master Christ should blossom anew."
Whatever may be regarded as the ultimate and adequate ex-
planation of this record, it is all very curious and thought-provoking.
INTRODUCTION xiii
The manner in which the reader will approach its consideration
will depend upon the inner convictions with which he confronts
the book, rather than upon any evidence it is possible for the editors
to supply. The assurance of sincerity on the part of the redpent of
the script is no guarantee of the trustworthiness of the ultimate
source, and affords no clue to its nature. Some readers may regard
it as a communication from a supramundane intelligence. Others,
acquainted with modem psychological developments, will possibly
look for a purely human explanation, and may be inclined to
attribute much to unconscious telepathic influence. In publishing
this instalment of these scripts, the editors believe they are serving
many diverse interests, and they offer it for enquiry and examina-
tion from every angle. The scripts from which it has been pre-
pared are reproduced with entire fidelity to the original manuscript,
except for slight and very occasional changes of construction,
where that was awkward, or of phrasing, where that seemed need-
lessly archaistic. The excision of several passages, containing
over-elaborated detail not strictly relevant to the narrative, or
repetitions of incidents already recounted, has been necessary to
reduce the material to manageable size, but the reader is assured
that no liberties have been taken with the meaning of the text,
and that nothing has been either omitted or incorporated which
would alter the original communications in any essential. The
scripts from which the present text has been transcribed have
been preserved entire and intact.
The contents of this present volume demand some explanatory
remarks.
They supplement the Acts of the Apostles and the Epistles of
St. Paul to this extent, that they furnish an account of the Early
Church and the Apostles from immediately after the death of
Christ to St. Paul's departure from Berea for Athens (Acts xvii. 15).
This account shows signs of independence of the Scripture narrative,
and does not appear either to be based upon it or even to owe it
much. The "Messenger" is not apparently conscious of the existence
of the Holy Writ, and declares : "I have not the knowledge of
those parts of the Holy Writings that have been preserved." The
script contains material which both supplements and explains
what we know from the New Testament, and, moreover, it supplies
information which the Bible furnishes either incompletely or not
at all. On the one hand, the experiences of St. Paul after his con-
version are here (pp. 75 ff.) set forth with a fullness unknown to
the New Testament. Students of St. Paul's life will find it interest-
ing and instructive to compare the account in Acts ix. with the
xiv INTRODUCTION
longer and more detailed account given on pp. 71 ff. If it be
remembered that the incidents narrated in the first twelve chapters
of the Acts occupy in all on!y some thirty separate days, while the
chapters themselves cover a period of, at the very least, nine years,
it will easily be seen that an immense portion of apostolic history
has escaped record by the biblical historian. If the present record
be in any wise authentic, it is undoubtedly to be regarded as a most
momentous contribution to our knowledge of apostolic times.
It contains much which, in consideration of the life and mentality
of the intermediary, Miss Cummins, appears quite inexplicable on
the supposition of human authorship. Only an unusually careful
and profound student could have been responsible for giving
to the head of the Jewish community in Antioch his accurate
title of "Archon." Net long before the time when, presumably,
the chronicle of Cleophas was written, the head of the Jewish
community was called the Etlmarch, but when the organisation
and government of the cities was altered by the Emperor Augustus
in A.D. II, the title of the head of the Jewish communities was
changed from Eth1zarch to Archon. It would have been a pardon-
able error if the chronicle had used the title Ethnarch instead
of Archon, especially as the writer lived in Palestine, where the
Jews were ruled by the Sanhedrin; but the use of the comparatively
new title Archon is an e'l!:ample of that exact knowledge on the
part of the writer which is to be found in many other striking
details only noticeable, perhaps, to those who are themselves
authorities.
Over and above this detailed knowledge, there are examples
of insight which would appear to suggest a contemporary. The
characters of the Twelve Apostles are described with an understand-
ing and sympathy which is remarkable, and the account of Judas
is hardly one for which a modern writer could take the credit.
Most people now believe that he betrayed Jesus from covetousness.
If the relevant passages in the Gospels1 be examined, it will be seen
that there is no justification for this idea. The idea of covetousness
was a later inference, because no other reason for the betrayal
is mentioned. In fact, it has always been something of a difficulty
to explain what it was that really prompted the betrayal. But the
Chronicle, in indicating disappointed ambition as the reason,
helps to solve the difficulty. And in this connection one cannot help
recalling the fact that of the three Apostles, St. Peter confessedly
occupied a position of supremacy, while the other two aspired to
1 Matt. x:xvi. 14, zs; Mark xiv. IO, II; Luke xxii. 3-6; John xiii. 2,
27, 30 ; and in Acts i. 16-25.
INTRODUCTION XV
places of particular honour in the Kingdom (Mark x. 35 ft.). Ambi-
tion was clearly not confi11ed to Judas (cf. Mark ix. 34); but, while
Christ's teaching on humility waslaid to heart by the other Apostles,
he seems to have turned a deaf ear to it. At any rate, every impar-
tial reader will allow that the chronicle here offers a helpful eluci-
dation of a difficult point ; while not in the least controverting
anything that is said in the Gospels, it supplements them in one
particular and corroborates them in others.
But, while it may be thus claimed that this chronicle usefully
supplements and explains the scriptural account, it is not altogether
by the canonical standard that it is best to he measured. A candid
reader will be struck by the existence and the recurrence of magical
phenomena, and may possibly object that Christianity, as here
represented, is by no means that pure and spiritual force represep.ted
in the New Testament. Th~ chronicle itself may not move on a
high spiritualorphilosophical level; it mayoccasionallymanifest an
open dislike of secular intellectual criticism. Thus the "Messenger"
says : "The message of Christ is for the unlearned, it is for the
multitude. And the Pharisees and Sadducees of your day will not
hearken unto the chronicle which I bear you." Less easy to justify,
perhaps, than this distrust and 9islike of the philosophical or
purely rational spirit, is the absence, at times, of high religious
tone. For e,xample, the account of the death of Ananias and
Sapphira, makes Peter acquiescently instrumental in the death of
both, in smiting them by a murderous occult force for an offence
which did not in itself deserve death, and the attempted palliation
of this by ascribing to Ananias machinations against the "Brethren"
would he little more than the justification of the murder of a
·political opponent.
This whole story is characteristic of Cleophas's naive enjoyment
of thaumaturgic phenomena. Christianity would appear to the
chronicler to be largely the result of a mighty agency~pahle even
of killing one of whom you disapproved-which has got under the
occasional control of the "Brethren," since they alone are able to
conjure it up. The purely spiritual nature of this agency appears
quite secondary to its rather spasmodically exercised power of
blasting all opposition. This is, of course, a verylowlevelofreligious
development- the magical. Such phenomena are certainly
reportedin thecanonical Scriptures as acts of the Apostles; but, in
their case, as in our Lord's they were strictly subordinated to the
inculcation of purely spiritual truth. In Cleopbas, however, the
chief distinction between the "Brethren" and their critics and
enemies is not so much in their conviction of spiritual truth as in
xvi INTRODUCTION
the possession of superhuman powers; their chief arguments are
"signs and wonders."
Yet, while such features do exist within these pages, the objection
that their presence detracts fro::n the worth of the book misses the
point that precisely these outcroppings of very human and some-
times very un-Christian emotions are a certain guarantee of the
psychological truth and the historical trustworthiness of the picture.
The present volume may, in many senses, be uncononical. and
yet, none the less, be of incalculable value. To assume, however,
that the editors would place it on a level of the New Testament
books and judge it by their standard, is to cast upon them the
imputation of a facile credulity. Early Christian literature fur-
nishes more exact standards of comparison than that. Perhaps
the closest parallel will be found in some of the apocryphal Acts
of the Apostles, or in the half-authentic, half-romantic Christian
historical novels, which go back, in all probability, to the second
century itself. We do well to remember that not even Apostolic
Christianity was free from a certain admixture of elements from
the philosophy and civilisation of paganism ; the very pages of the
New Testament show numerous examples of easy acquiescence,
superstitious belief, and half-hearted practice. Certainly, these
apocryphal acts, if in one sense entirely unhistorical, do provide a
useful view of the condition of Christian society in theearlyagesof
the Church ; and it is by this known, if by no means exalted, level
that these pages are most suitably to be measured. There is, for
example, a curious resemblance between this present work and the
well-known early Christian romance, the Clementi1te Recogt~ititms.
It is not possible here, and perhaps not desirable, at any length
to work out a parallel between the two, especially in theirphilosophy
of religion, their moral system, or in the ecclesiastical structure
which is assumed in both. But in tone, in general atmosphere,
there is much that cannot be explained simply as reproduction or
dependence. The belief in the existence of magic and witchcraft,
the employment of thaumaturgical forces, and the almost explicit
acknowledgement of the superior and invincible magical powers
possessed and practised by the Apostles, are in both equally
prominent, and might be taken as a true reflection of the state of
the society in which the early Church had to make its way. Recent
investigations of primitive religions have shown, more clearly
than before was realised, the potency and the persistency of magical
beliefs in all cults throughout the world. In various guises, this
fundamental superstition was probably the most unyielding of all
the forms of error which the Church had to confront and confute.
INTRODUCTION xvii
The remarkable part played by magic in the following pages need
not, therefore, be regarded as an argument against their probable
authenticity. It is much more to be taken as an argument in their
favour, for the natural tendency of any fabricator would have been
the representation of the early years of the Church as a "golden
age," free from any taint of superstition or chicanery.
This resemblance between the present scripts and early Christian
"novels" of known authenticity is no less striking in the matter of
form and genre. Cleophas makes a quite noticeable effort to be
"literary" and lively. The reader is left to judge to what extent
he achieves success, but he does incorporate much which looks to
be almost intentionally romantic, or even sentimental. He is
even just on the point more than once of introducing a little
"feminine interest" to enliven the tale ; he has passages of "fine
writing," some really fine, 1 others perhaps overdrawn, and a good
deal of diffused sentimentality. He loves character-drawing-the
angry and discomfited Head Magistrate of Philippi (pp. 209-II
and 221-6) shows distinct humour-and he shows considerable
skill in the management of dialogue. In the structure of the book,
he has divided his narrative into sections with a distinct episodical
unity, and the reader's interest-if the editorsmay judge from their
own experience-is quite admirably sustained andcarried forward.
In view of this, it is of interest to remember that the chosen
medium of communication is herself a novelist, and, in fairness to
the "Messenger," we must also remember his claim that he has to
utilize the images of her mind as best he may, so that, it may be,
his narrative necessarily assumes a form native to a mind stored
with memories of novel-reading, and itself trained in that form of
expression. It is notable, in this connection, that the narrative
is of an almost uniform modernity of style, except for some archaic
inversions and words such as might occur to anyone acquainted
with the Authorised Version or a little Early English. In this
edition these have, for the most part, been changed in accordance
with modern usage. The form, then, of this singular narrative
may-unconsciously-owe something to the personality through
which the "Messenger" speaks.
But, in general, there is a close and interesting resemblance,
almost amounting to a family likeness, between the present treatise
and that whole body of apocryphal or pseudepigraphical pendants
to the Old and the New Testament, to whose value attention has
of late been drawn by the labours of Dr. Charles in England and
Professor Kautzsch in Germany. No one would claim for this
1 e.g. the first 1 , 750 words ofChapter i., ParchmentIII.
xviii INTRODUCTION
literature the importance attaching to the docwnents of canonical
authority ; it is a source for the study of early Church history rather
than of Christian doctrine. Based, in all probability, upon oral
tradition, it illustrates the rapid popularisation and deterioration
to which all oral communications are liable, but it does provide
first-hand and important testimony to the condition of popular
religion. If comparison were instituted between the scripts of
Cleophas a.qd that set of documents (or with any single member of
the group), the parallel would in all probability be found striking
and suggestive, and it would be well worth while to work it out in
more detail than could be attempted here with, say, the bOoks of
Ezra, or some of the Gospels of J udreo-ChristianorofGnosticorigin.
Attention has already been directed to the prevalence in both of
the miraculous element, for which, yet, there is the ready apology
that Christianity itself was cradled in miracle, and that the best
results of modern criticism leave the fact incontrovertible that
miracles were wrought by Jesus Himself. But, in addition, there is
the noticeable fact that in both groups the religious element, pure
Judaism or pure Christianity, has been very' largely tinged and
penetrated by the prevailing world-philosophy. Those elements
already mentioned as existing in these scripts-the distrust of
pagan learning, the undercurrent of emotionalism, the occasional
emergence of a cruder and more vindictive spirit-are common to
the whole species of apocryphal writings, and are the inevitable
product of that process which, on one side, was the leavening of
the world by Christianity, and, on the other, the assimilation of
Christianity to the world. Consideration of the Scripts of Cleophas
has left the editors, as the study of the Apocrypha has left its
devotees, confronted with the difficult problem of understanding
what e.xactly is meant by inspiration, and yet convinced of the
importance such documents as this possess, not so much for
exhibiting what Christianity was in itself when pure and undefiled,
as for revealing what Christianity was taken to be by its primitive
exponents. The careful reader may be left, in the end, With a
definite impression of a background of superstition, misinformed
zeal, and ignorance which may well; the editors believe, have been
precisely that in which the Apostles and their successors had to
labour. The early converts, Church officials and teachers who
figure in these pages certainly exhibit no excess of enlightment in
their grasp of Christianity ; they are often zealous with that zeal
which is not too clearly to be distinguished from fanatical bigotry,
but yet this is ~ot the final and despondent impression left upon
the mind. They do possess some germ of understanding, some
INTRODUCTION xix
evidence of light, and if their treasure is in veryearthenvessels, it
is none the less a treasure.
In conclusion, the editors offer to the public this present por-
tion of the chronicle in conscious disinterestedness ; they have no
case to prove and no personal or unworthy motive in publication.
In preparing the script for the Press they have, as has beenbefore
insisted upon, made no integral change or rearrangement ; in this
short preface they have frankly placed the reader in possession of
all the explanatory facts in theirpossession, and have not attempted
to bias his mind towards one side or another. The problems raised
by the book they·realise to be considerably puzzling, but the editors
have deliberately refrained from suggesting any theory or explana-
tion. They hold that the work merits attention and examination,
and they do not hesitate to invite the scrutiny of experts in early
Christian history and literature, in the phenomena of thought-
transference, or in communications from a higher plane. These and
all kindred problems they leave such experts to decide, and hold
that their task is discharged by placing the m().terials on widely
accessible record. ·
zrst December, 1927.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT
THE FIRST PARCHMENT
CHAPTER I
THE TRIAL OF PETER
I HAVE come to give you knowledge of that wondrous time that
followed upon the rising of our Master. For a Sjpace the Brethren
were sore afflicted and tormented il). spirit. 1!he pains of Hell
beset them ; but each kept this to himself, and showed a cheerful
countenance to the others.
It was a time when the Eleven held themselves apart for much
wrestling with the pitiless demons that beset them sorely. The
Brethren were bidden by the Master to give much time to prayer
and meditation, so that all might be made ready within them for
the holy coming.
There was temptation from without and from within.
Certain messengers from the Sanhedrin and from the High Priest
came privily to the Disciples. Gold and many fa,~Tours were offered
them.
It was on this wise: Peter; James, and John .lived together for
a time, and met for the ordering of matters aTnt:mg·the Brethren.
The messengers sought them at even, and told them of the wrath of -
those in authority against them, if they continued to hav:e the name
of Christ upon their lips and sought to spread Hi~; teachings ~ong
the people.
The messenger spake of the favour of the Hiigh Priest, and of
gold that would bring these three all they desi1red. Then Peter,
listening to their words, bethought him of the Iast words of the
Master: "Feed My sheep"; and understood in that hour the
meaning of that saying, which had seemed ha1rd in the moment
of its utterance. In truth the sheep would be scattered upon the
hillside if these three shepherds drew themselves away from them.
Now, Peter was weak in matters of the flesh, and his heart had
been failing as he hearkened to the words of the Priest's servant.
Sore cast down had he been, bethinking him of tlb.ose mortal pains
Il
12 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
that might be his if he defied them, casting the worcl.s of the High
Priest's servant in his teeth.
He sat apart from J ames and John in great heaviness of spirit.
Seeing that his heart was failing him, the servant turned to him
alone, speaking with honied words.
''Feed My sheep," echoed like a soft voice within the soul of
Simon and, raising his bead, he saw the Master's face as He looked
upon him in the hour of his denial. It stayed but a moment, but
it struck Peter to the ground. James and John, thinking he had
fallen into a swoon, hastened to raise him up. He cast them from
him, and, turning to the servant, told him to depart hence and
torment them no more.
The servant would not go, and sought with menace to make
Peter fail yetagain. Now Peter was a choleric man, and anger rose
within him, so that he could not stay his hand, and he cast forth the
man from the room striking him upon the head, and calling on him
in the name of the Lord to abjure the devils that were within
himself.
James and John strove to stay his hand and his voice, which he
lifted up in his wrath against the tempter. They feared that the
people might be roused. But Peter suddenly turned, and passed
from their presence, and from the presence of the servant.
They followed him, and found him in a dark chamber weeping
and in sore travail of spirit. For he knew that in his anger he
had once again failed his Master, and that was a reproach in the
eyes of those whom he would teach and lead. He besought James
and John to let him be but the servant of the Eleven ; for he was
not worthy to bear the teaching of the Christ to the Gentiles.
They took counsel together, and then John spake thus : "Man
ever rends what he feareth most. As great as thy dread, brother,
was thine anger against the servant of the High Priest. But thou
hast conquered thy fear and shalt have forgiveness, and fail not
again. We will hold our peace, and will not tell the Brethren of the
sin of thine anger, nor shall they hear of the message from the High
Priest, so that they may not be tempted beyond their strength."
Then Simon Peter vowed that no anger would stir him again,
and he and the other two departed privily to a place not known
to many, tarrying there for a short space, seeking by prayer to
purge Peter of wrath, attd to prepare themselves for the promise
of the Master.
Some days before Pentecost they sought out the flock that was
their charge. And, as they had been told, they made ready an upper
chamber. Peter's spirit was greatly exalted because he had been
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 13
forgiven and not cast out. So his sin of anger begat the first great
miracle of healing that was done by one of the Twelve. He healed
the beggar who asked him for alms. You will read of it, for it
was set down in Holy Writ.
The beggar was paralysed, and Peter told him to aris~ and walk.
And lo ! he walked, and went leaping before tl].em into the Temple
and praising God. Now, when you read of this miracle, you will
know that it came from the repentence that followed upon the
evil sin of wrath.
CHAPTER II
THE CHOICE OF THE TWELVE
THE Disciples witnessed the coming of the Holy Spirit in divers
ways. Each related it according to the nature of his soul and
spirit; for each of them was differently fashioned. For the company
of the Twelve did make a pattern, each one being chosen for certain
powers in which he differed from the others. ·
The Master knew that in the making of a ship there must be more
than one wood, and that many parts must be chosen, so that the
whole may have the balance that maketh it fit to go forth upon the
waters. He chose the Twelve having in mind, not only those
spiritual parts that giv,e a sweet savour to the whole being, but
thinking also of the form of this vessel that should in due time bear
within it His tea,ching to the Gentiles.
John He chose for the pure flame of his spirit, the excellence of
the glass within his soul, which could image the vision of the ever-
lasting, and give to ignorant man the signs of the invisible, to
instruct him with the learning of the Spirit.
James the Master·chose for his worldly knowledge, for his cold
judgement of man, and because he could devise means and ways
whereby the Twelve and those that followed them could be guided
in the ordering of their days and in their dealings with men.
Peter was chosen for the passion within his soul, for that hot
temper that scorcheth all that lieth in its path, making the way
clear in a wilderness of thorns. He was chosen for his weakness,
which, when sin hath been committed and repentance hath come
at its heels, maketh a man of heat doubly strong in the faith of our
Lord Jesus.
I4 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Andrew was called because he had a soul not easily stirred ; its
movement was "mooth as lake-water at even.
Philip was chosen for his learning and for his manner of weighing
and balancing, which was the part in him most serviceable when
counsel was being taken. He had no fear of strange lands, and had
great knowledge and understan<;ling of the nations, and was ready
to bear the Word to the uttermost parts of the earth.
Bartholomew and Nathaniel are one and .the same. Bartholo-
mew was a name he bore when he was in Egypt, Nathaniel was the
name by which the people in Judrea first knew him. He was quick
in his ways and eager in his teaching and preaching. Oft cast down,
he would yet rise again, seeking tQ make amendswith much fervour.
Matthew was careful and slow, not given to much speaking, but
watchful for the things of the Spirit. He never forgot, and was
ever able to instruct the ignorant in small matters of doubt.
Thomas was stubborn as the ass is stubborn, and cared not to
change his ways of th0ught or speech once they were set. He had
the power of thinking in one manner, and an independence of soul
that made him at a later day a leader, and one that naught could
move from his faith in Christ Jesus.
James, the son of Alphreus, was of good heart, and had a kindly
way of speech that won many who were weak. There was com-
passion in his soul. Yet he was by nature small and had no power
to lead. He could but follow.
Simon the Canaanite was quick and lively in his parts, and could
make answers that would crush the unbeliever. But there was no
g;eat depth in his soul, and he had perforce to draw often from the
well of the Three for faith and wisdom. The Three were set .apart
from the Twelve so that they, with their deeper natures, should be
as a fount of wisdom and understanding whence those who were
athirst and fainting might draw the wine of the Spirit.
Thaddreus was the bearer of two names for the reason that at
times there seemed to be two beings within his one body. There
was a cleavage in his nature; at one time he was circumspect and
cold, ordering his comings and goings with judgement ; at another
time he was wild and full of zeal, and so strangely wrought that
there was no hardship he would fail to bear. He was chosen that
he might preach at a later day to people of savage temper, who
needed first the fire that maketh a great light and' then the lasting
warmth that lieth within the embers when the flame resteth and
leapeth no more into the air.
Judge not Judas. Chosen was he for a strange purpose. When
Christ first laid eyes upon him He knew that here was one who had
THE FIRST PARCHMENT IS
a fretful and uneasy soul that could bear no bridle for long upon it.
This man had his hours of faith when he loved his Master, but with
envy; and he was jealous of those around Him. He was chosen
as one who through his own strong desires would betray the
Master.
The betrayal had been appointed as a sign of man's lower nature
and as a showing of what is but a semblance of love that walks
abroad as such, while it is but the love of the Devil, which has no
health in it.
In the life that follows death Judas did lie in darkness for
what seemed to his soul an age of bitterness and weariness. But
he repented, and passed, when his time was accomplished, to a
state of spirit and soul wherein he cast from him those strong yearn-
ings that had made of him a betrayer. He did not betray for the
sake of the money ; he betrayed because of the hate within his
solu for the Master who had shown that others should be first with
Him. Judas desired to be of the Three that were nigh the Master,
and this was denied him.
CHAPTER III
THE CHOICE OF MATTHIAS
WHEN the Eleven were gathered together, though they had taken
counsel of each other, they were not yet of the one mind. So they
agreed to watch for a short space and hearken to whatever was
set in their hearts.
The twelve had learned from the Master certain practices con-
cerning the invocation of knowledge. He bound them to give
these secrets to no man, so they have perished. I can but tell
you that they gathered together, and in the midst of them was a
table ; the Brethren sat about it in silence, and for a space their
hands were joined, and they prayed with their whole being for the
light. After the loosing of the hands they made certain signs.
Of these I may not speak but to say that they were for tlie freeing
of the Body of Light from each of the Eleven. When all these
spiritual bodies were set free they blended with one another,making
what would seem to mortal eye a rounded pillar that was pure
white and which passed into a mist above the heads of the watchers.
Thus they stayed for an hour or more, praying for guidance,
16 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
but making no stir with their mortal bodies. These were more
still than are those of sleepers, for sleepers are tormented by dreams,
wherein they move and mutter to themselves.
When a fu11 hour had passed, then did these bodies of the Eleven
stir once more; and they trembled and quaked, as when the soul
goes out of the body at death. This was the coming back of the
Body of Light each to its vessel of clay. And, when the shaking
of their bodies was ended, each of the Brethren drew breath within
him heavily ; and thus were all the binding threads made fast once
more. They severally arose and, one by one, passed out from the
chamber without uttering a word.
John was the last to rise up and to go, for his Body of Light was
a traveller, and sought to wander to and fro when it was freed from
the darkness of the confining flesh. It was as hard to ensnare
and to bring back to its harbourage as a butterfly that flutters in
the sunshine. When John passed out he was dazed and spent;
and he sought, as did the other brethren, a lonely place where no
man might trouble or fret any one of them. For some hours they
were tender and sensitive in mind, and could easily have been hurt
by the mind and body of another, if it drew close and cast its net
about their body.
Now I have spoken concerning the watch before the choice was
made. Ye have not told of this, for it was known only to a few
who would guard the secret with care and discretion. No Gentile
knew of this time of silence, when the Word was shaped within
the hearts of the Eleven so that when they again assembled and
chose Matthias they had the certainty in their minds that he was
the man who should take the place of Judas Iscariot. The mind
seeth, although the reason may be blind.
The Eleven knew and yet knew not that Matthiaswasthe chosen
one. They had little memory of the Hour of the Watch. The know-
ledge that is within you and is not known to you yetcanbe drawn
from the Body of Light by means of certain tokens. Then it surely
comes forth.
The name of the twelfth Disciple was given to the Eleven when
they had cast from them the Body of Light ; yet it could not shape
upon the fleshly part the name that was chosen. But it had the
power to rule the casting of lots, by making the mind about them
apprehend what was needful, and this mind did tell the fleshly part
how it should act in this matter.
It was not the taking of counsel together or reasoning and talk
· between the Brethren, it was the Hour of the Watch that gathered
this fruit and harvested it. The ignorant might say that it was
THE FIRST PARCHMENT I7
through the Spirit and its workings that this was accomplished.
But I have sought to show you the way in which the Eleven drew
unto them counsel concerning grave matter~;. Their natural
understanding had no knowledge of the choice of the twelfth Dis-
ciple, for this choice was made, of a truth, throug;h the Spirit ; but
it was needful that the knowledge should be gathered through this
mystery-the Communion of the Bodies of Light ; for there the
Eleven were gathered within one another so that they made one ;
and it was like a white rounded pillar, within which was set what
they did yearn to know and possess.
CHAPTER IV
PENTECOST
I WOULD speak with you concerning the coming of the Holy Ghost,
and how it did make of plain and ignorant men, whose souls were
ever fearful, prophets without fear, bearing upon their lips the
message of the Spirit.
On the eve of the Pentecost the Brethren drew apart ; and the
Twelve strove to prepare themselves by seeking solitude and
wrestling with the host of evil that assailed them. Not one of the
Twelve was free from these strange troublings of the mind.
Dark shapes and images did gather about eaol!J. brother, seeking
to wrest from him the precious reward of faith. Only by the
grace of faith and through the Spirit of our dear Lord Jesus could
they rest as pure vessels that might receive tlhe Holy Thought
of God.
Many of them were sorely affiicted in those hours of darkness.
Only John and Peter found their wrestling with the Accursed easy.
For, since that last shaming of Peter, be was as a new man. His
soul was like a flower that openeth in the dawn.
The night was long for the Disciples, yet pot one of them failed
in watching ; and the hosts of evil faded when mom bad come.
Then they went to an upper chamber after the pwrification of water,
and thought on our Lord Christ the while they,, for a short time,
severally stood facing the sunrise and prayed, being now all purged
of doubt and of one pure faith. They then sat themselves in silence
about the holy table, encircling it as it had bee11t commanded and
according to the order at the Last Supper.
Be
I8 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
This was for remembrance. They would draw nigh to them the
elements invisible, that would give them power to receive and to
bear what would have stricken ordinary men with death. For this
great gift of the spirit consumes, and every man must be fortified
for its coming, else will he be shrivelled up and for ever cast out of
the body.
One seat was empty, and thus the circle was open. After a time
of silent prayer, and after they had shared in the Holy Mystery,
they did join hands ; waiting in sure hope and belief that the
Master's Word would be accomplished.
Strange and sudden was the coming. The room had been dim
and misty, and what had the semblance of a vapour did hang about
them. It vanished, and a light broke; and, with the light, a roaring
arose, ofgreat winds that swirled andrushedabout them like the loud
crying of the sea tom with tempest. Out of the light came tongues
of flame ; like the red blooms of flowers, they were glowing upon
the head of each Disciple. And their very beings were shaken with
wonder ; but no fear was among them.
Some saw these blooms as the whiteness of the lilies of the field ;
others as the redness of the Master's blood. White is the sign of
purity and red the sign of redemption.
And the Twelve-for they were Twelve-did, in one moment, see
before their eyes the scroll of the invisible, and the writings of the
future time when all the Gentiles should have had word of the
Master Christ, It passed with a strange swiftness, and some had
no lmowledge of it after its passing and yet their spirits lmew ;
and they were filled with a wondrous joy.
And, as they watched, the blooms of fire soared up, and they
felt·within them the rushing of strange words, and speech that
had in past times no meaning for them was now clear as the
noonday light.
The winds had ceased : the tongues of fire were to the Twelve
no more within sight,and a great stillness came upon all within that
chamber. Yet within each one was the mightiest stirring that has
ever been lmown within the soul of man.
It was Peter who first broke the silence. Rising up, he spoke
aloud in words of prophecy. He would tell of the writing on the
scroll. But first hespoke the words of the Prophet Joel, and of their
tidings for the Gentiles and those that lmew not God. Ye lmow
the words:
" Your young men shall see visions and the old shall dream
dreams ; and many signs and wonders will there be.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT I9
" The sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall be as the
colour of blood."
This was a true saying of a time that did follow upon the coming
of the Holy Ghost.
Yet shall these signs and wonders be given in a later day, and
strange happenings will be in the heavens. But not a hair of your
head will be touched. I know not the hour of their coming ; but
with them will there be a spreading anew of the fire of the Spirit,
and many dreams and visions will in that time be given to those
that be channels for the image and the signs of the Invisible, and
show the wondrous works of the Lord God of Israel.
Watch for that day, which is not the Second Coming, but the
Promised Light, that shall be to the Gentiles as was the Promised
Land to the Seed of Abraham. Then will the Gentiles bathe
themselves again in the waters of the Spirit ; and the darkness
which covers men's souls, so that they think but of their bodies
and their little day of life, will pass from them, and they will know
that, as the worm dieth not, neither shall man, nor shall the fire ·
of the Spirit be quenched. ·
I would write of Peter, and how, in that holy hour, he spoke before
all the others in the words that he had seen upon this scroll of life
and death for man. Of the number of his generations, of his many
wars, and of his backslidings-<>f all these did Peter speak, and he
told also of the Spirit of Christ that should rest in the hearts of men
in good days and evil, turning them, with the passing of each score
of years, ever a little more from the night and ever a little nearer
to the day.
He spoke also of great evil that would be done by Satan in the
name of Christ, and revealed to the Brethren tha( if they would
share all with one another, this evil would not be of their time. He
told them that the Word of the Spirit was that no one should have
greater possessions than the other ; that there should be a common
treasury ; and that each of the Twelve should, at his appointed
time, go forth according to the bidding of the Spirit within him, to
whatever land was given unto his charge.
But, first, they should abide near Jerusalem, for·many people were
gathered together at that time within its boundaries from the ends
of the earth ; and these, that were but passers-by or as the birds,
would help to bear the seed of the Word to the people that lay in
darkness. And, so, some one of each nation, would be as a
messenger to his own people.
When those that were about Jerusalem had learned these tidings
20 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
of the Master Christ, then would the Brethren know better their
own great powers, and watch for the signs that would be given them
as to their work among the Gentiles in far distant lands. Peter
spoke in wondrous words, praising God. And all the brethren
joined in that praise and song, and great was their amazement and
their joy at the wondrous coming of the winds of God, and at the
entering within them of the breath of the Holy Spirit.
CHAPTER V
THE MIRACLES OF PETER
I wouLD speak of the great power that arose within Peter after his
last failing, for he was nigh to the fall of Judas when the servant
of the High Priest spake him fair. But, out of the soil of weakness
such as his, springs a growth that is sturdy and stubborn.
His repentance was great and his power to draw the Spirit to him
increased. It flooded his being as it flooded no other on the day of
Pentecost, and he it was that first foun<:l speech.
When the coming of the Holy Spirit was accomplished, when all
were filled with it, they arose with one accord and sought the
multitudes that had come from all parts to Jerusalem for buying
and selling and for the festival. There were many in that small
nation that had come hither to seek livelihood among the great
peoples of the earth, many of whom at that time came to see their
kindred from far places. That was why the coming of the Holy
Spirit was chosen for that hour.
For years there had not been such a great assemblage of Jews of
divers nations ; yet of the one stock, the one blood.
To all the Twelve spoke in their own tongues, and these were
amazed that ignorant men should have this knowledge. There
were many who were not of Judrea and who had come to Jerusalem
for that chosen time. These also heard the- Word of the Lord
spoken in their own tongues, andmarvelled. Ofeachnation ever a few
followed the Master only from that hour, and these did severally
entreat the Twelve that one of their number should bear the know-
ledge of the Prince of Life to their own people. And so the seed
was scattered in a few days over many fields, and the Word of the
Lord was thus accomplished.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 2I
Now Peter, knowing that Jerusalem was crowded with those that
came from the uttermost parts of the earth, prayed to the Lord God
that a miracle should be wrought through him. And, filled with a
new strength-the power of the humbled-he did heal a lame man
at the Gate Beautiful.
Walking towards it, he had spied the servant of the High Priest.
So mighty was the anger of righteousness within him that the hearts
of those standing by quaked at the sternness of his countenance ;
and the servant of the High Priest, who had come to gibe at him,
was stricken to the ground by his fear and lay there as in a swoon.
It had been in his mind to summon those that would forbid the
entry of Peter to the Temple. But all strengthwent from himwhen
he found himself in the presence of the Holy Spirit ; for it was
passing through the earthly vessel that was Peter, giving out
healing to the lame man, and withering up the evil in the soul of the
servant of the High Priest.
There was great talk throughout the town at this marvel, yet it
was but the first of many miracles. Peter was for seven days
possessed with that fury of righteousness that led him to heal many
that were in a fever and give sight to those that were blind from their
mother's womb.
This time of healing was a time more plenteous in cures than at
any other season in the life of Peter or in the lives of the Twelve.
It was because the Twelve, being all assembled in the one place,
were mighty in power. Their speech was such that the faith of
the people about them was mightily increased. Never was there
greater faith among the humble and those of simple mind. Thus
it was that Peter healed many sores; even his shadow gave strength
to the sick and hope to those that were nigh to death. Therefore
the days that follow the Feast of Pentecost are called the days
of healing.
There was a purpose in this great curing of bodies. The Priests
and the Sadducees had held COU!lsel together, and,in thedays follow-
ing Pentecost, they desired to shut the mouths of these followers of
the Master by taking them in custody and keeping them in prison,
till the people were scattered once more. So would the seed not
have been scattered over many fields if Peter had not of a sudden
risen up in the midst of the people and cured those who were sick
and dying.
The account of the time after the rising of the Master was written,
but this chronicle hath perished.
I would have you know why Peter, who had sinned, should have
been chosen in the later days, as the holiest among those that were
22 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
holy, as the one who had from the Master the charge of the Church.
It was by reason of the wrath of the soul that was in him, so that
there was,as it were, a great burning in his being which gave out the
power of healing. This in a time of sickness was given as a sign
to men, so that the High Priest and the Sadducees dared not, while
the multitudes of strangers were in Jerusalem, lay hand on the
Disciples and put them in prison, for bloodshed and tumult would
have followed.
The priests bided their time, and, when the stranger had gone
from their gates, they had Peter brought before them, and many
were the charges against him. But then the seed was sown and
naught could uproot it.
CHAPTER VI
PETER CONFOUNDS THE HIGH PRIEST AND PERFORMS A MIRACLE
I WILL give you tidings of the works of the Twelve, and how it was
that a great tree sprang from their teachings and gave shade to the
whole earth.
I would tell you of the first miracle, and how the High Priest
and the Captairi of the Temple cortununed with one-another, saying :
" If there be more miracles, then shall we be undone."
So Peter was sought for, and, when they found him, they dared
not treat him as a malefactor, but desired of him that he would
bide the night in a place nigh to the Temple, a dwelling-house of the
High Priest's.
Now the High Prjest was a man of much learning, but one that
had no grace of the Spirit. All the days of his life he had been
tormented by the desire to work miracles and heal the sick.
He was called Annas, and Hanan was one name that he was
known by.
The Captain of the Temple feared the power that the teaching
of the Master Christ would have over the people. But the High
~riest coveted the glory that he knew would come to this unlearned
man if he continued in his curing of men's bodies.
So in the night-time be spoke privily with Peter, saying that
there was much that he, an ignorant man, might learn in the Temple,
and how his knowledge would be greatly increased if he would
study therein and become one of the Sanhedrin. And he promised
THE FIRST PARCH~NT 23
Peter gifts, and aught that he might desire, if he would but tell
the secret of the miracle of healing.
" It was through the grace of our Lord ]esus·Christ and through
no power of mine," was. Peter's answer. "I am but a humble
sinner whom the Lord hath chosen for His vessel, as He chooseth
the hollow of a rock and maketh therein a pool from which those
who are thirsty and fainting in spirit may drink and draw the power
of life."
The High Priest did not believe him, and mocked at his words,
saying: "Thou hast some secret power learned from the hermits
or the Egyptians ; the power that cometh from the stroke of thy
hands or fiom the drawing of a healing vapour out of the air. This
is no miracle of thine; it is but a secret stolen from some wise man."
But Peter held his peace.
Then Hanan upbraided him and struck him in the face, buffeted
him and spat upon him. But Peter was not troubled,but was calm
and still. Through all the hours of the night Hanan raged and
pleaded with him, praying that he would give up the secret of the
healing to one who was wise and would know how to make use of it.
When daybreak had come the angry High Priest thought that
the Council of the Elders would put the fear of' death into the heart
of Peter, and that then he would surrender his secret to him.
So Peter, who was now the chief of the Apostles, was brought
before these old men- strong,in authority, and, by reason of their
cunning speech and baleful looks, greatly to be feared by all who
were brought into their presence to answer for their deeds.
Peter would not be questioned or silenced by them. The grace
of the Spirit filled him, and he spake concerning our Lord ]esus
Christ and the manner of His Rising from the Dead. And, though
the Elders sought to stay him, he would not cease from speaking,
and he showed them that he, who was but an ignorant man, had
knowledge of the inner mysteries of the Temple. .
" These," said Peter, " will I give to the people, and all shall
know of them if ye will but let me go, so that I may spread the
light of our Lord Christ among men."
Now, when they sought to gag Peter and have him removed to
prison, a great clamour arose outside, and entrance was made for
the daughter of a Roman who had authority at that time in
Jerusalem.
She was stretched upon a couch, and, though young in years,
her limbs were wasted so that there was no strength or health in
her, and she could not set her feet upon the ground.
And the Elders, who did not believe in the healing of the lame
24 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
man, made mock of Peter, saying: " Reali this woman, so that
thou mayst prove to us that thou hast this grace within thee of
which thou pratest." But the High Priest gave orders that Peter
should be put in ward.
After much discussion, they cast lots on this matter. Those
who believed that Peter would fail had their way, and he was forth-
with led to the couch of the maiden, which stood in the hall without.
Peter, taking both her hands in his, searched her countenance
with his eyes. And she, having faith, did not falter, but gave him
gaze for gaze, saying : " Master, I know tha.t if it be thy will thou
wilt make me whole." All the Elders had crowded into the hall
and were about him, waiting to see him discomfited and confounded.
They were sore at the manner in which he had preached to them-
as if they were the least of men.
A great hush fell, and of a sudden the maiden's body, that had
been stili and without life, stirred, and was shaken with violence,
as if a spirit possessed it.
She gave a great cry, rose from her couclh, and threw herseli at
the feet of Peter, saying: " Master, I am whole! "
Then Peter took her hands once more in his, and raised her from
the ground, saying : " Maiden, it is not meet that thou shouldst
worship a man who is but a sinner. Worship the Lord Christ, the
Prince of Life, and give Him faithful service ; for He hath healed
thee, not I."
And the Elders were dumbfounded, and, fearing the anger of the
Gentiles, withdrew themselves, saying naught of what had lain in
their hearts and what had been prepared by· them for the undoing
of Peter.
The maiden would have led him to her FaLther's house, but Peter
would not go with her and her servants.
" My people have need of me," said he. And a multitude
gathered to greet him, for the tidings of this new miracle had
travelled with the swiftness of a bird among them. And on that
day Peter was able to speak with many contceming our Lord Jesus
and His teachings.
When Peter had thus triumphed over the Elders, and had silenced
them with the he~ng of the Roman maid, they were afraid of the
multitude ; for they needed the authority of the people to condemn
Peter. Men were saying that here was a prophet come unto Judrea
who was greater than those that had gone before, because he had
healed two who were sore affiicted ; and this the Elders could not
deny, for they had examined the man who lhad been lame from his
mother's womb.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 25
So,at that hour,when the heat of the day on which the maid had
been healed was strongest, and there was quiet, because the multi-
tude had retired within doors, the elders spoke w:ith Peter, James,
and John, and charged them to cease speaking of one who had been
a malefactor, for it would lead to commotion andl violence, and in
the end to their own death.
The three Disciples q.nswered saying: "We have ·no power in
this matter. We are but the vessels that hold the message of the
Holy Spirit, and from us it must be scattered abroad among a
thirsty people."
And they went hence, leaving these learned men sore perplexed,
and, being anxious at heart, sought out the companyofthe Brethren
so that they might gain virtue and strength in tb.e common act of
prayer.
It was·an hour of high import, for the little ship of the Ch~rch
was still but a frail barque, and they knew not how potent had been
the two miracles of healing wrought by Peter.
As they prayed they yearned greatly for a sign that would set
their minds at ease and give them new faith. And again in the
hush came a rushing of wind, and this time the earth was shaken,
and one among them saw fire and the face of tl'le Master Christ
below the flame. Then Peter and the Disciple whom Jesus loved
knew that all was well with the Brethren, and that they were
travelling the road that had been chosen for them.
CHAPTER VII
THE STORY OF ANANIAS AND SAPPHIIRA
Now I would speak concerning the meaning tha1t lies behind the
tale that hath been told concerning Ananias. Much of it was not
written, fot it was not deemed needful for those that came after.
The Twelve had been taught by the Master that they should
share all things in common. To some of them this seemed a hard
rule, and caused some murmuring. So Peter called together the
whole community. Everyone that had been baptiised was present ;
and he spoke concerning the laws by which they :should be bound,
and how they, being one in Christ Jesus, should s:hare all things in
common.
THE SC~IPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Now Ananias, who had murmured most, was called upon to
speak and asked if he had aught to say concerning this law. But
he was confounded, and replied only that the will of the Brethren
was his will.
Peter answered, " There be no will but that of Christ in this
matter;'' So Ananias, with honied words, urged those about him
to share all with one another, for Peter was mighty in speech and
Ananias was a coward.
And so it was settled, and everyone brought their possessions
- and their store of silver to the Twelve, and it was given to certain
of the younger men to apportion to each his share daily. The
tidings of this sharing was spread abroad among the people. Some
did mock, but many observed that the community neither hungered
nor thirsted, and that none went untended. And it was given out
by certain evil-minded persons that they prospered greatly and
lived in ease.
Ananias, who was bitter because of his overthrow by Peter, and
be~use his tum had come for the selling of his land, which was
rich and gave him money in plenty, sought out certain men among
the Senate of Israel, men that were in authority, and said : " I will
acquaint you with the rule of this new sect, and how they seek to
overthrow the State by taking from a man the wealth that he hath
earned or that his father earned for him. There is conspiracy here.
These men do but use the name of. Christ to shield their purpose,
whi~h is the overthrow of all law and authority, the giving to
l>eggars and thieves of the money of the merchants."
Then these men, who had great possessions, were disturbed in
mind, and, having taken counsel with one another, they told
Ananias they would look into this matter ; but they did not give
him what he sought; which was payment for these tidings.
Now he fell into a great sweat of fear, for he had been much
among the Brethren, ever loud in speech and boastful of what he
would do for his Lord. So he was well known and could not easily
withdraw himself. ·
But, thinking thaf certain of the weaker Brethren would follow
him, and as he had a lust after power and greatly desired to be
·known as a prophet, he sowed the seed of discontent in their hearts,
and planned with them to raise insurrection, and by loud speaking
and violence to overthrow Peter when all were assembled in
council.
Set about with his following, he went to the chamber in which
they were gathered together, and thus he had the courage to face
Peter, who was the last to come in. All had awaited his coming,
THE FIRST PARCHMENT
for he was ever first in counsel and wise in speech, seeking to read
the truth as given him by our blessed Master.
He knew that Ananias had spoken with those in authority,
and that he was therefore more than a liar ; he was ·as the
snake that lieth in the grass, and there was naught but poison in
him.
When certain of the elder Brethren had brought in their share
to the common store and a muttering had started amongst those
about Ananias, Peter called out in a loud voice : " Ananias, come
forth and give in thy share to the common store."
He made answer that his mite was small, yet he gave it gladly
and, if he had it, gladly would he give more to the common store.
For he was cowed, and feared to speak out boldly. The eye of
Peter withered up his courage, and he hung his head as he came
and stood in the midst of them.
James and John were next to Peter, but they knew naught of
the evil in this man's heart. It was through the Spirit only that
Peter had learnt of the betrayal and knew that there was canker
in this branch, and that it would rot the whole tree if it was not cut
off and cast out for burning. The wrath of the Spirit possessed
him, for was he not the shepherd of the flock? Among them was
a wolf that would devour all. It was not the lie, but what was
hidden behind it, that stirr~d up within Peter that fury of righteou's-
ness that had healed and now could kill.
About Ananias there gathered a cold, chill air that wound itself
around him like grave-clothes. So close did it become that he was
choked, and on the instant died. ·
The muttering ceased. All were terrified. Peter had but
charged Ananias with lying concerning the moneys he had brought
with him. The· weaker Brethren knew of his evil counsel and of
their own covetous thoughts, so they said nothing, and Peter
spoke concerning the law of sharing one with another, and that it
wowd bring Heaven to earth if all men practised it ; that its prac-
tice would mean the slaying of much that was evil ; so it was
needful that Ananias should die and the Kingdom of Heaven
prevail. '
Now Sapphira was a beautiful woman who loved all that was
rare and costly ; at first she had tempted her husband, saying that
her love for him would wax cold if he gave all to the common store,
keeping back nothing for her.
And Peter was instructed by the Spirit that through the tempta-
tion of her beauty she had been the first to draw Ananias away
from the strait path ; and he knew also that she had much power,
28 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
by reason of her speech and her beauty, with the weaker Brethren :
that she was a poison among them and must also be destroyed.
She came, hoping to see Ananias the leader and the chosen among
the people, and to share his triumph. Seeing Peter, she was con-
founded, and his words smote her as the slayer smiteth, and she
was, like her husband, struck down in the midst of them.
The young men carried out the beautiful Sapphira, and she
shared the grave of the betrayer and the one she had betrayed.
In the early Church much did hang upon this story, for it showed
to the Brethren, even more than the miracles of healing, that Peter
was the shepherd whom the Master Christ, in His stead, had chosen
for His flock.
Now the death of Ananias was voiced abroad ; it silenced the
slanderers, and made the Rulers of the People careful and watchful.
Daily more of the people were gathered within the fold. But the
ordering of moneys and the sharing of them among the Christians
first roused those that were in authority- ! mean those that had
to do with the ruling of the people. It was not the fears of a new
prophet that stirred them, as it did the Scribes and Elders, nor his
strange teaching, that threatened to overthrow the rule of the
Priests within the Temple.
Before the Pentecost, before Peter had become known as the
prophet and the healer among the people, the Priests and the Elders
of the Temple had been at variance with the Rulers and those in
authority.
Then the Captain of the Temple had been afraid to seize the
Disciples. The people would not have been with him in such a
deed, they havingbeen mightily stirred by the signs and wonders
wrought by the Disciples.
Many men of other nations were dwelling in Jerusalem and
round about in those days. The High Priest, Hanan, learnt of
the displeasure of these men, who had much to lose if the State
were overthrown, and he sought them out, for he hated Peter,
who had the power of healing which was denied to him.
The Rulers and merchants and the Elders were gathered together
by Hanan in secret councj.l, and were all apprised of the threatened
revolt and uprising that would come from a body of men who
shared all things in common, and who in time would seek also the·
possessions of those in high places.
These men took no thought of the teaching of Christ concerning
brotherly love, or they held that to be a veil to hide the evil con-
spiracies of the Disciples against the civil order.
So the Jews in authority became as one in their wish to destroy
THE FIRST PARCHMENT
this new sect of the Christians. The people favoured Peter because
of the many miracles wrought by him ; great strength must be
shown by those who desired his undoing. This could only be
obtained by holding the Senate of Israel, in which all the Ancients,
the Elders, and the Rulers would gather together and sit in judg-
ment upon Peter : this would be greater than a Sanhedrin because
of the power of the Gentiles behind it.
Now they felt strong enough to put Peter and the Disciples in
public ward, and, on the morrow of their taking, to bring them
before the Senate to be condemned, for their condemnation was
certain.
CHAPTER VIII
THE ARREST OF THE DISCIPLES
AFTER the death of Sapphira and Ananias a great fear fell upon
the Brethren. Many more believed and magnified the Lord, but
were afraid to join the Brethren and be baptised, for then would
they be subject to the ruling of that community.
Some were weak in the flesh, and said unto themselves, ''This
ruling is hard. If we fail we shall be stricken by this prophet,
and become as dead men, and our souls will be damned."
They knew but of the lies that had been told to Peter concerning
the property that was withheld; they did not know of the secret
betrayal by Ananias to the High Priest of the Brethren ; nor did
they know that he sought to destroy the Church when it was frail.
Peter had learnt of these matters through his power of insight
which is from within.
John was a learned roan, and had a knowledge of the schools,
and this knowledge led him into confusion. This John of whom
I speak was not John the Elder or John the Dreamer, but John
of the Schools. All three were saints, and there was much
confusion at a later time because they bore the one name. Many
of the happenings in the life of John the Dreamer were set
down upon the rolls in the name of John the Elder or in
the name of John of the Schools. Now this John of the
Schools and certain of the Disciples sought out Peter, saying :
" This that thou hast done is an ill thing and much harm will come
of it. Thou hast brought fear upon those that might have been
of our company. Fear, akin to despair, is a deadly sin, brother."
30 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
And John continued, saying: "Many mirades were wrought by
our Master Christ. They were for healing only and for the casting
out of unclean spirits. They were miracles that aroused faith,
not fear. What hast thou to say concerning the slaying of Ananias
and Sapphira ? "
Peter was not confounded, yet he knew that if he could not
satisfy them another must lead, another mu:st be Shepherd of the
Flock.
He made answer: "Yea, the anger of the Spirit rose up within
me, and I summoned it with intent to blast these two sinners, for
they had sought privily to destroy the community of Christ and
to make our preaching and our work of no avail among the multi-
tudes. In blasting these two I have but :followed the teaching
of the Master, when He spake concerning the whole body, 'If
thine eye offend thee, pluck it out, for it wer•e better that it should
perish than that thy whole body should be 1thrown into Hell.' "
And John bowed his head and asked for forgiveness of Peter
for his doubt of him. John had in this matter been guided by the
knowledge of men and not by the knowledge of God.
Yet there is danger in the reading of the words, " If thine eye
offend thee, pluck it out." The judge of the sin must have the
knowledge of the truth, or, peradventure, he will pluck out what
hath health and hath not been corrupted.
Now concerning the gathering together of those in authority.
I have told how old quarrels were healed, and how the Rulers of
the People, the merchants, and those that were counted as the
Elders in J udrea, had held counsel with the High Priest, and how
they agreed that the followers of Jesus Chris1
t were a danger to the
State and to the faith and the old beliefs.
Many of the people worshipped Peter becau:se of the miracles of
healing, and many would have died for the Twelve because of the
message they taught in the Temple and because of the fire of the
Holy Spirit that burned within them. They taught daily in the
Temple, in the hall without, where all may come and speak and
where the High Priest hath no power.
The Disciples made it their rule to meet: in prayer at sunset.
When it was possible, all the doors were shut, and only those that
had been with the Master prayed within and spake of Him at that
hour, so that He might remain fresh within their hearts.
The multitude withdrew at this liour 6f prayer and communion ;
and so it was an easy matter for the soldiers to come in upon them ;
to burst open the doors, and, threatening the1rn with spears, to drive
the Twelve to the place of keeping.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 3I
Once they were lodged within the prison, the Captain sought
out the High Priest and the Rulers, and gave them word that not
one of those that had made sedition and distwrbance had escaped
him ; and there was great rejoicing among these Ancients ; for
now they were powerful and of one mind. They were decided upon
one issue-that they would condemn, not upon the matter of faith,
but upon the ordering of the community, which they would say
was a conspiracy for the destruction of the Sta.te.
CHAPTER IX
THE DISCIPLES ARE DELIVERED FROU PRISON
PETER and the Disciples were cast into a nruTow dungeon, foul
and dim, and made in such a fashion that no man might of his ovfu
strength break through the doors. The Disciplles were cast down,
and in their need they prayed, with Peter leading the prayer. He
bade them be silent, and drew apart, calling upon the Holy Spirit
to enter the temple of his body and so work 1upon it that power
would !be given him to open the doors.
Now I have spoken concerning the Body of Light, and that
there is nigh to it another shape, which is between the visible and
the invisible, which covereth the flesh and which is between it and
the Body of Light. These two Peter cast fortht from him, and his
own mortal body fell into a swoon. He lay so still that some
believed him dead, yet they dared not draw nigh to him, because
he had commanded that they should be still, a:nd watch and pray
in silence.
There are greater spirits that have powers that would seem to
you marvellous if they had but a shape within1 which they might
enter and manifest themselves. But only tho•se that be mighty
of soul may cast the Body of Light from them :and its covering, as
Peter did, so that the Higher Spirit might enter within it and
manifest its power. ·
Now as the Disciples prayed, they did, with. the power of their
evocation,help to give theearthly element that would draw the angel
within the manifest shape of which I spoke. And lo ! it appeared,
as light cometh, and was of the substance of light in the eyes of
the watchers, and yet it had the form of man, that being the form
which Peter had cast from his mortal body.
32 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Then, drawingfrom the Brethren what it needed, the angel opened
the doors of the prison and set the seal of sleep upon the guards, so
that they stirred not, standing in their places deep in slumber.
The Disciples did not move when the doors were opened, for they
had given their promise to Peter to remain still, and would not
break this, even with the temptation of liberty spread before them.
So soon as all that was needful was accomplished, the angel
vanished from their sight. A coldness struck them, and they
trembled, for they were in the presence of the Holiest of Holies.
It passed as swiftly as the flight of a bird. Peter rose up and com-
manded the Brethren to follow him, and they went forth, past the
sleeping guards, and beneath the gateway of the prison-house, out
into the open country, as the day was breaking.
Peter was greatly shaken, for mighty was the miracle he had
wrought ; yet his will was firm and he led all of them to the Temple,
at the time when the people were gathering there, bringing offerings
and prayers or meeting for idle talk at that cool hour.
Those who were assembled there were greatly amazed, and
gathered about the Twelve, demanding tidings of them. Then
Peter and three others that were chosen lifted up their voices,
preaching the Word of the Lord, speaking of His message and His
teaching.
CHAPTER X
JAMES EXPOUNDS THE CHURCH OF CHRIST TO THE ASSEMBLY
WHEN the day was fully come, all the Elders, the merchants, the
Priests, and those in authority, gathered together, prepared with
weighty words and arguments to confound these ignorant men.
The merchants gave little thought to the matter of doctrine ;
they felt that the preaching of the Disciples concerning the Messiah
was a disguise to plot against those who had many possessions.
The Priests and certain of the Elders were afraid, not for the faith
of their fathers, but for their own authority with the people.
" Whereunto will this grow ? " they asked of one another.
" These men would be Priests in our stead, and hold the people's
minds with their vain talk concerning this malefactor, and with the
cunning secrets they have stolen from the old Egyptians ; from a
tomb in Egypt have they stolen the secret of healing, which was
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 33
written upon a scroll and lay beneath the head of a Pharaoh who
reigned in the day of Moses. The secret of the working of miracles
was known at that time to a few amongst the Egyptians, and fr'om
them Moses drew that knowledge, to which was added the mighty
power that was given by the Lord God of Israel. But these men
seek to commune with evil spirits, and with their aid and this
knowledge have they wrought miracles." Such were the tales that
were told by those who sat in council awaiting the coming of the
Disciples.
The officers hied them to the prison and found the guard at their
posts ; all these being chosen men, they were assured that the
Disciples were fast \vithin. ·
"No man hath passed this way since the setting of the sun.
We have watched all night and there was naught but stillness and
silence about us."
Hearing these words, the Captain of the Temple rejoiced in his
heart, for he had feared a miracle ; but he trusted the word of these
men. Never had they failed in their duties. He entered within
the prison, and lo! it was as empty and solitary as the desert. No
sign was there of any man.
The guards were put in ward and others called to hold them fast.
The Captain was possessed with a great anger, and he would not
listen to the words of the guards, who were amazed, for they did in
truth believe that they had watched all night, and all denied that
they had slept even for a moment.
When the High Priest was told that the Disciples were no longer
in hold, but were within the court of the Temple, preaching the
Word of God and speaking of the wonder of their deliverance
through the might of the Holy Spirit, there was much talk, and
these ancient men were troubled at heart, and sent the Captain
and the officers to the Temple.
On their approach there was a great disturbance among the
multitude, who were of many nations, assembled about the Disciples.
They threatened these servants of the Elders, saying: "We will
stone you if ye lay hands upon these holy men."
A great clamour arose. Then Peter, James, and John raised
their hands, making a signal for silence, and the multitude was
obedient. A great hush fell upon it. Peter demanded of the
Captain the nature of his business \vith them. He bowed to the
ground in answer, and, \vith civil words, entreated him and the
Brethrf .1 to speak of their doctrine before the company of the
Elders ; for they would gladly hear more of the Christ whc was
called the Messiah.
cc
34 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Peter read the guile that lay in his heart, and made answer that
. he and the Disciples would go before the Elders if promise was
given that those in authority would hearken to their words. And,
the Captain having sworn that this would be so, they hied them to
the place of assembly, where sat the Elders of Israel.
Once the Brethren were within, the doors were fast shut, and
they were told that certain charges would first be made against
them, which they would be called upon to answer, and that after-
wards judgment would be given.
"The people will give you judgment," replied James. "Hearken
to them." And on that instant a great shout arose from without,
and there was menace in it ; for the multitude that had pressed
, upon the heels of the officers had found the doors closed fast against
them.
Before the High Priest arose and spoke concerning the Disciples
and their doings, a lawyer made accusation, setting forth in hard
words the several charges against them.
These were :· that they sought privily to conspire against the
State ; that one Ananias, who had been of their counsel, had given
testimony against them that it was their design to take from the
rich men their possessions, to rob all those who were traders of
their merchandise, and to take from the Treasury such store of good
as it contained.
This would they share with each other, giving to beggars and
thieves such alms as would lead them to make disturbance and
insurrection, and thus would the civil authority be overthrown.
Now James was the one among the Twelve that had cunning for
these hard words of the law and could read their riddles set as
snares for the unwary. So he rose up and asked, whether this man
Ananias had given them written testimony of the charge that they
were minded to seize all men's possessions and share them with
one another ?
The lawyer answered that this man had but spoken of these
things, and that there was no written testimony.
Then James, turning to the High Priest, said: "Call this man
fromSheol,•that he may render testimony concerning thesecharges."
The lawyer, speaking for Hanan, said: "You slew this man."
"His own lying killed him," was the answer. "And take heed
lest you, by a slip of the tongue, be fed to take the road he hath
followed."
At which the lawyer trembled, fearing the might of this holy
man, and made no answer, sitting as one who had been struck
1 Sheol : the Jewish hereafter.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 35
dumb, making only foolish signs of fear with his hands, and showing
in his countenance his discomfiture.
Then James spoke in full freedom, for all were amazed at the
silencing of one who was accounted the most cunning in words
in all Israel.
" Call Ananias from the dead if thou art in truth the mouthpiece
of the Lord God of Israel," cried James, addre:ssing himself once
more to the High Priest. But he also was sei:red with that fear
that held all who were seated in the place of ass.embly and held his
peace.
And James did teach them then concerning the ordering of
possessions among the Brethren. He told of the words of our Lord
Christ, and how all should share all things one vvith another. Yet
Jesus had not meant that this should be the rule of the State, for
His words were : " Render unto Cresar the things that are Cresar's,
and unto God the things that are God's."
"Men of Israel," said James, "I would have you know that
those among you who seek to share all things with one another
and have not the Spirit of the Holy Ghost within them, nor the
teaching of Christ Jesus within their heart:s, wilU come to nought,
and all their planning for a rightful division of possessions will be
in vain.
" For do you not see that, if the people desir«~ the things of this
world and all that the eye lusteth after, and have not the Spirit of
Truth within them, there will be naught but co1
nfusion and folly if
they would,in the ordering of possessions, have all thingsincommon?
" The Church of Christ should be an image of the Kingdom of
Heaven, and this is the inner meaning of the teaching of the Prince
of Life. He would have us set up the Kingdom Clf Heaven on earth,
so that the joy of the Spirit should reign withiin the hearts of all
men. Man, being subject to his body, must take thought to make
the form of the life that is outward so perfect that it becomes an
image of the spirit in it:s beauty and truth.
" Let there be a State, and let all men obey its laws. But let all
men gather together and hearken to the teachings of those who
have the knowledge of Christ within them, and then, when they
are filled with the Spirit of Truth, let them form themselves into
Brotherhoods, and let those within the Brotherhood share alike
and have a common treasury. Thus will all have ease of mind, and
those with a special gift for the work of the Loord will be set free
from care.
" Those that gather together in brotherhOO<il must be subject
to the ruling of Christ, and must know charity, and seek to help the
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
saints within the order and among the Brethren by love, as well as
by the sharing of goods with one another. There may be many
Brotherhoods within one State, and they shall, if this be so, deal
with one another according to the civil authority, seeking the
common good. Each Brotherhood shall have its own treasury
and its own officers. But in that which pertains to the teaching
of Christ they shall be of one accord.
"These Brotherhoods shall not lay a yoke upon those that would
not be of them. Every man, and woman must enter of his own
free will into the Church, whose first rule is to divide all things
equally among the Brethren. There shall be division, also in work
as in all things, and the saints who are wise in spirit must seek
to order all matters so that there be no envy or jealousy, but so
that the sisters and brothers in Christ Jesus share His Kingdom
of Heaven upon earth in great peace and happiness. The only true
rule for man is that he shall rise above the beasts of the field and
live the truth of the Spirit of Christ Jesus."
Such was the substance of the speech of James. He made clear
to the mind of his hearers that above all things the State must not
be confounded with the Brotherhoods or Churches within it. The
State is for the safeguarding of the whole people and for the order-
Ing of all those matters that demand one common will and mind.
But the Church is for the inward life and must be the image of
the Kingdom of Heaven. The image cannot, save with a few,
be within if it have no outward shape.
Thus did James show that there was no conspiracy against the
State, and that the ordering of the Church of Christ would but give
strength to the State. For all the Brethren within the Church
were content with their lot, and prepared to render tribute to
Cresar and abide by the common law.
CHAPTER XI
THE INTERVENTION OF THE SOPHIST GAMALIEL
GAMALIEL was a just and upright man who had lived among the
Greeks and had been taught to reason in their manner, which is
t~at reason must ever be set apart from feeling or passion, and
that, if a man sets out to be a reasoner, he must ever set his own·
feelings and his fortune upon one side, seeking to gain the truth by
not letting self stand in the way to obstruct the truth.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 37
He had been greatly disturbed by the common report of the new
polity the followers of Jesus would set up in Judrea. It seemed
to him, not a polity, but the congregatin~ together of robbers for the
purpose of making the possessions of all men their own.
He had listened earnestly to James; and his countenance
lightened greatly when he learned that it was peace and the good-
will of Brotherhoods that James expounded, and that a man was
free to choose as he wished in the new order preached by " the
man Jesus," as He was called by the Pharisees.
Great was the joy of the learned doctor as James continued
to speak of the Brotherhoods, and showed that they werenot against
the State, but for the State ; and that they were frugal in their
living, seeking but the good of the whole.
They would, he thought, bear the methods of Greek philosophy,
its orci.er and sequence, into the common life of ignorant men.
" They are high thinkers, and we should not judge them, but wel-
come them to our midst," Gamaliel whispered in the ear of the
High Pij.est. And Hanan, who had been stricken by the fear of
Peter's deadly power, was stirred again to anger, which is the child
of fear, by the words of this wise Pharisee, who was held in high
honour, and from whom he hoped to win a condemnation of the
Brethren.
" You have no knowledge of their evil teachings, nor of the lies
they have told concerning the Sanhedrin in Jerusalem I" Hanan
whispered in answer. And then he rose, saying in a loud voice :
"I have charges to make of which the Elders know naught; and
these charges are such that ye can make no answer to them.
" A man called Jesus did preach among the people, drawing men
from their work ; setting them against the laws of Moses ; telling
them He was the Messiah, the Son of God. He was but a common
fellow, and for the sake of peace our Governor took Him ; and He
was put to death for the evil He had wrought.
" And you, 0 ignorant men ! who would seek our hurt, spread
abroad the tidings of His death, and called us of the Sandedrin
' murderers.' "
And the Elders shook their heads and whispered one to another,
and Hanan continued, saying :
"We straitly commanded you not to speak of this man and of
His crazy boasting. But you have spread His doctrine abroad,
filling Jerusalem with the tale that He was the Son of God, and that
we of the Sanhedrin had slain Him. You have sought to bring
upon us this Man's blood. I herewith charge you with the
blasphemy of calling Him God I There is but the one God, the
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Lord God of Israel, the God of our fathers. The Messiah has not
yet come."
Then Peter, turning to the Elders, said:
· "We bear witness to the truth. I will slhow you that the High
Priest and those that were with him slew the Messiah, the Prince
of Life. And now He sitteth on the right hand of God, and
hath sent us, His servants, to bear tidings of the truth to all
the world.
" Ye may ask, ' What did He show you of the Spirit that is of
God?' He was born in Bethlehem, of the S•eed of Jesse. He came
as the prophets of old foretold, and He did teach what had never
been taught before-the forgiveness of sins,. and the love that ·ont>
man should bear for another. And He showed that He was God
through miracles and signs.
" He raised a man from the dead ; He cast ou.t devils ; He
healed the sick. I did see Him spit upon :the clay of the ground,
and, taking it in His hands, He laid it upon the eyes of a blind·
man, saying, ' Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, and thou shalt see
from this hour.' And that man, who was blind from his mother's
womb, found his sight, and he believed in our Lord Jesus Christ
from that day forth.
"But you have not found your sight--you are blind. You
mocked at our Saviour and our Master whell He, the Messiah, came
to you preaching the law of Moses and adding unto it the wisdom
of the Spirit, and the teaching that.all men should be brothers one
to another, neither greater nor less, seeldmg not their own, but
seeking only the will of God, which is the good of all.
" You have mocked at our Saviour and onr Master. But we shall
bear witness to the truth and to His shameful death. You may
put us in hold ; you may persecute and scourge us, or slay us ~you
slew Him : but, as long as we have lif~. we sbtall bear testimony unto
His name, for ·He hath sent the Holy Spirit of God to us, and this
i£ yet another sign that He was the Messiah.
" I am an ignorant man, yet, through ·the power of the Holy
Spirit which He hath sent, have I healed the sick and opened the
doors of the prison.
" Brethren, Elders, and men of Israeli I do entreat you to be
healed of this blindness, and, even in this hour, to believe in our
Lord Jesus Christ, whom you hanged upon a tree."
They would not let Peter speak further, and were greatly angered
at these words. And.the old men forgot that they were Elders ;
they shouted at Peter and shook their fists :at him.
Gamaliel was not one of these tormentors. He was scornful of
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 39
the wrath of the Elders, and, rising up in the midst of them, rebuked
them, saying :
"You are like unto barbarians. Like wild beasts you would tear
these men. Bawl not at them as if drunken with new wine, or like
the harlot bereft of her lover ! Be men and Ellders, not as the
beasts of the wilderness ! "
And the priests and merchants were ashamed. ·They mocked no
more, and returned to their seats, whispering one with another.
Then Gamaliel, the learned doctor, called the guards who were
without ; and he bade th~m take these twelve men and keep watch
over them, while the Elders spake with one another and judgment
was sought.
CHAPTER XII
GAMALIEL ADDRESSES THE ASSEMBl~Y
WHEN the council chamber was cleared and the Elders were
gathered about the table, Gamaliel asked of th~~m whether they
had aught to say concerning the words of Peter amd James. ·And
one by one they rose and gave their judgmen1t concerning the
defence that had been made by the Brethren. They were of accord
as to the evil seed that was being sown by these men in Judrea and
as to the tares that would spring up from their teachings.
Gamaliel listened courteously to all, bowing to each one as he
ceased and another arose in his place. No man. might read the
thought of Gamaliel ; smooth as a stone was his b1row, and his eyes
told naught of the secrets within ; so that when Hanan, the last
to rise and speak, turned towards Gamaliel, he was glad at heart
because this learned doctor, whom the people loved, seemed in his
manner to be in agreement with these Elders.
"You have seen," said the High Priest, "that these men be no
common criminals. They have at heart the de!Struction of the
State and the destruction of OlJTSelves. This Christ of theirs prated
of the resurrection of His body, and His followers teach this doctrine
to all the people."
When he had ended, Gamaliel rose up to give judgment :
" Fathers, Brethren, and Elders, this man they call the Christ
is dead. What He is now mattereth not to me ! It is by the fruits
of this man's life and teaching that we must judge. I will first
speak of the words of James. He hath shown us that this Christ
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOjPHAS
was wise in His understanding of the nature of man-how he is
half a beast and half a spirit. If he live as ithe beasts, seeking but
his own share of food, and setting at naughtt all those that hunger
and be of his kindred, then the present order of things will continue,
·and the time be at hand when the poor will hunger and there will
be famine in the land. The Christ hath seen this, and shown you
that, if the spirit is to overcome and rule the beast, man must set all
in order, make equal division of possessions, gather others of like
mind who will also make common division, thus laying up a store
for the lean years that will surely come. Tihe salvation of Judrea, ,
Brethren, lieth perhaps in these Brotherhoods."
And, raising his hand, his voice waxed loud, seeking to quell the
mutterings of the Elders, who were sore displeased.
" Thou art indeed a follower of the Nazarene ! " cried one.
"Surely thou art of the company of these men," mocked another.
"Nay, father! " Gamaliel made answer. "I would not be of
these men. By their fruits ye shall know them! These men have
not overcome the beast, as Jesus surely did overcome it, so that it
perished-and by so doing He gave forth a wisdom that is strange,
and yet nearer to the truth than any ! WhaLt do these men teach?
What is their doctrine ?
"They repeat certain of the words of Jesus of Bethlehem; but
they go about the city reviling the High Priest, by charging him
with the slaying of the man whom they caUl their prophet. They
would see vengeance fall upon those that had to do with the hanging
of their teacher upon a tree. They seek 1to stir up the people.
They follow not the teaching in this matter of their Master Christ;
whose words they have spoken this day, sayin1g, ' Love your enemies.
Bless them that hate you.' And so I will ha.ve none of these men ;
for the spirit of the Master ruleth not in all things within them."
Gamaliel had been taught by learned Greeks, and reasoned with
great subtlety, seeking to confound the one side and the other, so
that both might be silenced. Then would he deliver judgment.
He would sh9w that the teaching of the Christ was of the spirit,
but that the Disciples were as other men, and not as gods, and that
he would not be one of them. The charge was made that he was of
their company and should be one of them. So he sought to show
that he, a Pharisee, had contempt for them, as the Pharisee had
contempt for all.
He called to them to hearken to him, sayi;ng:
"I have shown you that I am no follower olfChrist. Now I would
speak concerning these men and what shoulld be done with them.
It would be a hard matter to prevail upon the Governor to have these
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 4I
Twelve crucified ; for they have the knowledge of healing from their
Master Christ ; nay it is more than knowledge ; it hath the power of
the Spirit behind it.
" They have wrought miracles. The daughte1
r of a Roman who
hath the ear of the Governor was healed of a sore disease, was
raised up from her bed by one they call Pete1r, and she walked
from that hour. Therefore these Twelve are no common men ;
some power of the Spirit is within them, and may some day wholly
overcome the beast, so that they shall of a truth be the children of
God. Men of Israel i Take heed what ye do with these men ! "
" They seek to overthrow us. How knowest thou that they be
of God ? Thou judgest in haste I " spake Hana.n.
Then spake Gamaliel. "My counsel is that a watch be set upon
these Twelve. Thus you shall know as the time passeth whether
they be of God or man. One Theudias rose up and told the multi-
tude that he was a prophet. Many gave him wellcome and believed
on him. But they were scattered, for he was vain and foolhardy
and thought but of his own glory.
"There was also one Judas, who sought in the days of the taxing
to stir up the people to turn on those who sought tribute. And
] udas told them that he spake in the name of the Lord and that
they need have no fear, for his cause would prevail. Yet were his
followers dispersed and he was slain."
As Gamaliel spake thus, a great shouting arose from without, and
the multitude demanded with one voice that the prisonersshould be
released and given unto the people, for they were prophets and
healers. and should therefore be given their freedom, so that they
might work further marvels among the people. The turmoil and
shouting were for a short space only, but it caused uneasiness among
the Elders, and they looked from one to another, fearing the wrath
of the people.
When the shouting ceased, Gamaliel spoke o•nce more, saying :
" Refrain from these men, and let them alone ; for if their counsel
or their works be of men, it will be overthrown ; but if it be of God,
you will not overthrow it, but be found to be fighti.Dg against God.
Set a watch on them, therefore, fathers and brethren, but let them
go in peace, for they will work out their own undoing if it be the
will of the Most High."
Hanan and the elders would not let them withdraw unscathed,
lest the people gloried in their triumph and said their Master was in
very truth the Messiah.
So the Twelve were scourged, and they went forth praising and
blessing God because he had counted them worthy to suffer thus.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
CHAPTER XIII
JOHN THE DREAMER, GAMALIEL THE SOPHIST, AND SAUL
IN those days, when the Romans ruled in Judrea, there had been
much coming and going among the nations round about : even the
Jews sought no longer to hold themselves apart from the learning
of other lands. They were wont to go to Athens and to study in the
schools there, to garner the fruits of Greek wisdom, for the Greeks,
though heathens, were famous for the subtlety of their reasoning.
With great sureness could such an one as Gamaliel speak of the
laws of Moses and defend them, when he had sharpened his under-
standing upon the whetstone of the Greek.
Peter had .spoken concerning the teaching of the Master, and it
roused in Gamaliel thoughts of the Spirit as it was spoken of by
the learned men of Greece. It was but to confuse the elder Jews,
who had no knowledge of Greek learning, that he likened man to
dark and light, to the spirit and the beast. Before his discourse was
ended he had shown that these Twelve, with their new doctrine,
did not in any manner transgress the law of Moses. Also that
persecution was like water on a thirsty land, and encouraged the
growth of what it sought to destroy.
Of these and other matters did Gamaliel speak, seeking also with
subtleties concerning the law of Moses to make strife between the
Sadducees and certain of the Priests.
Gamaliel counted for much in those days, and he was drawn
towards the teaching of our Master Christ. Yet, at a later time,
when the Disciple John and Joseph sought him out, he would have
none of it, saying that if all men were as Jesus Christ, then he would
be His servant and His follower ; but, as none were like Him, he
could not be a Christian.
"He taught," said Gamaliel to John, "a doctrine that no man
can follow in perfection. Men will always stumble beneath the
load, or stray into strange paths of error far from the road which
Christ had trod. I have studied His teachings ; they are for angels,
not for men. They are for the Kingdom Invisible, not the visible
kingdom."
And John the Dreamer made answer, "0 Fat)ler of Israel, the
sun giveth forth light, and yet we, being far from it, glory in its rays.
So do we glory in the light of our dear Lord Christ. You speak
concerning His teachings, saying : ' It is for a Kingdom Invisible,
and not for the visible world, which is so far from 'grace I It was in
THE FIRST·PARCHMENT 43
truth of the Kingdom of Heaven that our Master taught ; and we
seek to make its image here on earth. It may be:dim and without ·
light, as the harvest of our dreams is but a fading memory when we
waken. But we cherish the memory of that dream of beauty : it
giveth joy and happiness to us all the day, so that our hearts sing for
gladness. We cannot be as the Son of God, for we are not God, but
men ; but we seek to mould ourselves according to• His image. "
And Gamaliel shook his head in sadness. II Thou art 'young and
full of hope," he said; II thou wilt soon be old as I am, grey, and
with a body shrivelled like withered grass. Then shalt thou see that
dreams, as all else under the sun, are vanity, and leave nought but
bitterness behind."
And John laughed, saying : 11
If thou wilt bide with me in still-
ness for awhile, I will show thee the Dream of our Master for the
future ; thou shalt see that all the Gentiles worship Him and all
nations know Him as the Lord, and learn His teachings, and sing
praises unto Him. All this will I show thee as int a dream ; and it
shall be the truth."
" For thy vision, though not doubting it, I may not stay, 0
youthful prophet," Gamaliel answered. II But if, in truth, all
nations at some future time shall worship Him and sing praises
unto Him, yet will they not follow His teachings, which are fit only
for angels, not for men I I can no longer hearken unto thee, for one
Saul seeketh me, and I must speak with him concerning the true
wisdom which you will find in the laws of our faLthers, and not in
idle dreams. He hath found it so, and he will be a ruler in Israel,
young man, for he listeneth not unto the foolishness of the hour, but
studieth the wisdom of our fathers I "
And John went from the presence of the leamed doctor sad at
heart. For it had·been shown him when he was in prayer that he
must seek out Gamaliel and speak with him contceming our Lord
JesusChrist ; suchspeakingwouldbearfruits for th€: Church of Christ.
But he perceived that the learned Elder had but mocked at him.
Now Saul was a young man strong in body and strong in mind,
but lately come from Rome with letters to Gamaliel, and he was
seeking from this doctor instruction in the law of Moses and in the
mysteries of the Temple.
The mind of Gamaliel, his teacher, was full of the words of John
and of the doctrine of Christ, and he spoke of them to the young
man Saul as II the revelation that had been give~ to the young
Jew." And Gamaliel pleaded for Christ, and revealed to Saul the
beauty of His teaching, subtly building up the edifice of the Church
stone by stone.
44 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
And Saul, who was eager to oppose those who at that time might
set up any revelation that was not according to tradition and
according to his belief, sought to show the evil which such men as
the disciples would bring to Judrea, and even to the Temple and the
law of Moses.
And Gamaliel made soft answers, speaking for Christ in the words
of John, casting fuel upon the fire, so that Saul but disputed all the
more and hardened his heart against the saints.
For Gamaliel, being at heart a mocker, flavoured his words with
the poison of his derision. And it made these Christians seem at last
to Saul like the Evil One that prowleth about seeking whom he may
destroy. And Saul vowed in his heart that he would stir up Judrea,
and dissolve the Church of Christ by J?;.;rsecution.
Gamaliel loved argument, for he was a dialectician, and his aim
was to show this young man from Rome that he was unskilled in
argument, despite his study in other lands. The old man was also
of two minds ; his heart believed in the Master Christ, and his
reason rejected the teaching He had given to Judrea. And there
being in him a war between the heart and the reason, Gamaliel
tried with the play of words to silence the yearning that was
within him.
When he saw that Saul was greatly angered, he spoke no more
of the Nazarene, as some called Christ, but drew the young man into
talk concerning the laws of Moses, seeking thus to gain the measure
of his understanding.
I have told you this tale, because much came of the vision of
John and of his speech with Gamaliel. On alater day Saulbethought
him of his vow, and of the anger roused in him by the words of
Gamaliel concerning Christ. It was he planned what was the first
persecution of the Christians.
CHAPTER XIV
SAUL IS CONFUTED BY STEPHEN
SAUL was circumcised and was taught the law of Moses. In his
childhood he had lived in Rome and in Judrea. He had come now to
Judrea seeking his kindred and to learn the law and traditions of
Israel.
Saul was a man of impetuous temper, and, when he was crossed,
the image of the thing that had roused his wrath burnt as ~ hot
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 45
iron burns, setting its brand upon his memory. He was strong of
purpose, and the words of John that were spoken by Gamaliel,
and twisted out of their form by his subtleties of speech, caused
Saul to think of persecution, so that the anger of his heart might
be sated, and so that he might show the Elders that he, who was a
young man and unknown, could, by his zeal for the Lord God of
Israel and for the laws of Moses, prove his own exce.Uence and
obtain place and power.
The seed that lieth in the earth is hidden, bu1t in its due season
it will spring up and bear fruit. It was thus: with John. He
deemed his hour with Gamaliel as wasted time, but in due time it
bore fruit. The persecution, which was planned by Saul, caused
many Jews who were Christians to flee from Judrea and seek
other lands.
And to these lands they bore the tidings of our J
Lord Jesus Christ;
they ploughed the ground in many places, and prepared it for the
coming of the sower, who was to be one of the Twelve, or one
chosen to teach the Word of Christ and bear liight to the people
who were in great darkness. Behind the Twelve, called the ApoMles,
was ever an Unseen Hand to guide them in their ways and set
their feet on a sure road.
In the beginning they were as other Jews, see!king at first their
own people with tidings of Jesus.
So it was needful that they should be led for1th from their own
nation ; and, casting from them the customs of' their forefathers,
should bear the Word of Christ Jesus to the uttermost parts of the
earth.
Now Saul, in his zeal, sought out certain of the rich men and
Elders of Judrea and spoke with them of the saints.
He showed them that what they believed to be a passing growth,
sprung up in a night, was a deadly weed that would poison the
land of Judrea.
He told them he had heard a young man of the name of 5tephen
saying that the saints, when they were increased in numbers, were
minded to fulfil the commandment of their prophet Jesus, who,
in His anger at the manner of His death, had ordlered His followers
to destroy Jerusalem in three days.
Subtle is the mind of man, and words may be twisted, and an
evil tale be wrought out of fair words. Saul, in his ardour, belleved
the idle sayings repeated to him, and to these wo1rds he unwittingly
added more, seeking to make the charge so grave that it must move
these Elders and rich men so that they would seek to destroy,
in a frenzy of fear, what Saul now hated.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
" These people have a plan," he said, " •whereby they will, in
the heat of the summer~ bring fire to Jerusalem, and, on a night
when the hot wind of the desert blows, they will fire the wooden
houses, and with torches the Temple itself."
He would lower his voice, whispering that the Roman Emperor
had privily given moneys and the promise of more gold to the
Disciples if they would destroy Jerusalem, so that he might be freed
from governing a turbulent people who rendered but a small tribute
to Cresar and would, if sold as slaves, bring fat:more gold to Rome.
Saul was but lately come from Rome. He could speak with
authority, and it was knowp that he had been with certain Senators ;
and so many believed in the tale which he :had told to each as a
secret.
And, as is the way with secrets, it was whispered in the chamber
of every man of repute in Jerusalem; and few knew who had
first brought these tidings to the Jews. Many of the common
people heard tell of it, yet it had not reached tihe ears of the Romans.
For the Jews spoke much among themselve:
s, but shut the doors
of their minds when they had intercourse witlb. the Romans. There
was no trust between these two nations.
Then the Devil possessed Saul, the Devil of pride. When he had
gone forth from the company of Gamaliel he heard the voice of a
young man in a synagogue speaking of the doctrine of Christ.
This was Stephen, to whom the light of ow: Lord Christ was but
lately come, and he was eager and full of zeal, 1
:eaching and preaching
daily among the people.
If Saul had not been angered by the words •of Gamaliel concerning
.the new prophet, he would not have stayed. to listen to Stephen.
But, while his humour was still evil, and while the mockery of the
old man still sounded in his ears, he met with this other who spoke
of Christ-a young man who, in the eyes of Saul, was but a beard-
less boy.
And Saul rose up amo~g the multitude that were about Stephen
and sought to show that Stephen, in his ign.orance, was spreading
false doctrine among the people-doctrine that was contrary to
the Jaws· of Moses.
Now Stephen had learnt the law of Mos•l\S in the Temple 'and
knew it better than most Jews, for it had b~~en his wish, before he
had heard the tidings of Christ, to be a Prie:st and to serve in the
Temple. So he was well able to give Saul back argument for
argument, and to show him that the teaching of the Master Christ
was but the crown set upon the old religion, the old faith wrought
·by Moses and given to him by God.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 47
Saul was not used to the rougher ways of speech in Jerusalem
nor to the gibing of the people. The Jews in ithose days loved to
dispute conceming the laws of Moses, as grea.tly as the Romans
loved the sport of the arena. They knew not that Saul was of
good repute, and had power and influence with the Elders. They
liked not his anger when he was shown to speak ignorantly by
Stephen, who was quick of speech.
Great was the laughter of the people, and so angered was Saul
that he sought out Stephen and raised a hand to strike him on the
brow. Then the people cried out, saying that he had broken the
laws of disputation ; and they cast hirri forth from among them,
tearing his purele raiment and casting earth and dust upon the
fine clothes in which he had apparelled himself for the purpose of
seeking an audience with Gamaliel.
So was it that this young Jew, but lately come from Rome to
teach his people and display his learning, was cast out from among
them when he first sought publicly to make disputation. And
Saul fled before these common people, some being but beggars,
and was much dismayed. And certain of those who were his
friends saw him in this pass and beat off the mob that were at
his heels.
And the seed of a great hatred was sown in the heart of Saul.
From that day forth he rested not, seeking to prepare the people
of Jerusalem for the persecution, seeking with 1the evil tale I have
told you to set them against the saints, so that they would be
rooted up and destroyed.
CHAPTER XV
THE INCREASE OF THE CHURCH : THE APPOiiNTMENT OF THE
TREASURERS
THE disputation between Stephen and Saul was a short space
after the trial of the Twelve. They had gone forth rejoicing in
· their stripes and praising the Lord. Many days p~sed before
Saul's tale had so spread among the people that certain of them,
and they the most powerful, tumed their hea:rts away from the
teachings of the Twelve and saw in them but secret emissaries
of Rome.
While the evil was travelling from mouth to mouth, from chamber
to chamber, the Church of Christ was prospelring, and numbers
...
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
daily believed on the Saviour. In the days before the trial, many
had magnified the Messiah secretly, but had been afraid to declare
themselves openly. And now that it was noised abroad that James
and Peter had confounded the most cunning lawyer in Israel, and
had shown the High Priest that faith in Christ was no new religion,
but that it was the blossom of the old, those who had worshipped
in secret openly made known. to their kindred that they were of
the Church of Christ.
Hundreds came daily to the Twelve and listened to their teach-
ings, and many of them brought all that they possessed and offered
it to the Disciples. The Twelve could not teach and keep charge
of the moneys, making a fair division. It was not within the
power of these few men.
The Jews who dwelt at Jerusalem, it was said, held those other
Jews who came from strange lands to be inferior people. Certain
Cretan Jews, Libyan Jews, and Grecian Jews, made believe that
they were derided and set at naught by those of the Brethren who
had lived their lives in Judrea. This was foolishness, and their
murmurings were unseemly and unjust. They sought for a cause
which would give them a reason for speaking against those who
scorned them. Some of the women, having been neglected through
this sudden increase of the Church, came to the Twelve and
demanded that certain ot their own peculiar people should be set
in authority.
Now these were ill fitted to wield authority. And James, who
was ever the thinker 'in matters that were for the common weal,
told these men of divers lands that the Twelve, having knowledge
of all within the fold, would choose those that were prepared for the
service of the Brethren. And he showed these ignorant men that
those who are ministers and would have authority in the Church of
Christ ~ust be, of a truth, servants, if they lived according to
the teaching that had been given them.
Full of wisdom were the words of James, and these men were
sore ashamed, and they entreated pardon of the Twelve. And
they went forth from their presence content, knowing that those
who are appointed to rule_in the Church of Christ are appointed
also to serve. Then did the Twelve withdraw themselves for a
short space from the company of the saints, and they sought to
build up the shape of the Church.
I have shown the manner in which the threads were gathered
within the distaff of the Lord. I would now speak concerning the
assembly of the Twelve which followed upon the murmurings of
the Jews of other lands.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 49
They came together to sit in council after they had partaken of
the Feast of Remembrance and kept the Hour of the Watch. When
the lesser Brethren had spoken, James rose up among them, and
made his charge concerning the life of the saints at Jerusalem.
" Brethren, we will share with one another as our Master bade
us share. We shall have a treasury, but it must be given over to
certain chosen men who are diligent and versed in the ordering of
households.
" There shall be an order of women that shall be guided in all
things by the treasurers. These women shall wait upon the sick
and fulfil the needful offices of service, so that those who have the
Holy Ghost within them and the knowledge of the Word, may be
freed for the spreading of the light among men."
And all were of one accord in holding that these words of James
should be the foundations of the building of the Church.
Peter held that the men and women who were chosen for these
two orders should never have known marriage, and should take
the vow of chastity so long as they were within the order.
"If they have husband or wife or child," he said, "they will not
be able to render service only to the Church of Christ. They will
seek also to serve those of their family, and thus their labours will
be divided ; they will be tempted to render the greater service to
husband, wife, or child."
Now James was not in agreement with Peter on this head.
"Marriage is needful for many who are fitted for this service; and
must we be denied their stewardship because they are married ?
Will they not work with greater zeal if they have contentment in
their heart, and will they not have greater knowledge of the needs
of others if they have lived with one another according to the
ordinance of the Church ? "
Some of the Brethren went with Peter and some with James.
Now Joseph was called before the Twelve, and he, being a man
of much wisdom, was asked for his judgment in this matter. He
said that with the people of Judrea this ordinance would serve, but
with the Jews of other nations, and with the Gentiles, it would not
serve ; and that those who, at a later time, gathered together people
of divers lands, should use their own wisdom concerning this matter
of service and marriage.
When Joseph spake concerning the Gentiles, there was an outcry;
some were still doubtful as to whether the tidings of our Lord should
be given to the Gentiles. Some held that they should first be
proselytes and observe the law of Moses before they observed the
law of Christ. There were Jews in many lands, and it was held
De
so THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
that these should be gathered within the Chur<:h, and only such of
the Gentiles as had been converted to the law of Moses and had
been circumcised.
Joseph made answer that the matter of these two orders had been
shown to John in a dream, when John had seen what was to ·be
the charge of Joseph and how he would end his life in a far land ;
and that he would not rest till this land, whiich was girt about by
water, was found by him.
There were many white roads, many rou1gh places, and many
waters to cross ; the years would pass and Joseph would be aged.
But when he had come to that land he would set up two orders of
men and women. Each would be for service, and they would build
the Church of Christ in that strange far lamd. And where the
Church was set, there would be a holy charge that would draw many
to Christ. ·
So it came to pass that on that day the order of the treasurers,
or sharers, was made. Lots were cast, and Phillip, Stephen, Nicholas,
and others were summoned from without. To seven of these young
men were given the keys, and to them were given the names of all
within the Church.
And a Scribe was appointed unto them, ~md another unto the
Disciples, whose task it was to make a chroniCle, under the guidance
of the three, of Peter, James, and John, of all the signs and wonders
that had been wrought, and of all that came to pass within the
Church.
CHAPTER XVI
FURTHER MATTERS CONCERNING THE POLICY OF THE CHURCH
A HARD matter for ordering rose up within the Church at Jerusalem
when the Seven were chosen. Some said that it was needful that
all those of one trade should sharetheirmoneysandkeep themwithin
the trade. In this wise the fishermen or the <:arpenters would have
set themselves wholly apart from the other Brethren in the matter
of possessions, and would in time have come to seek but their own
increase and prosperity, to the detriment of tlllose of the saints who
worked not at their trade. The Seven who had been chosen sought
the counsel of James, who was prepared with. his answer :
" The carpenters shall have a certain portion set apart for their
tools from the common store; ~e fishermen shall have a portion
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 5I
given them for their nets and boats ; thus the needs of each trade
will be supplied in full measure. But all momeys obtained by
trading must be paid into the treasury. Brethren, if each trade
setteth itself apart in the matter of possessions, there will be no
true sharing within our Church. ..
" Within our Church there shall be gathered the members of all
trades, beggars and drunken, the wise and the ~~orant, the sick
and the whole, and each one of you shall know that he hath charge
of the other.
" When a Disciple foundeth a new Church, he must seek to
gather within it not one manner of man alone. :For the strength
of the Brotherhood it is needful that divers kinds shall be within
the one community, so that it shall be increased :in strength, each
bearing to the common store his own peculiar talent.
" Prizes shall be given, as the Greeks give prizes for their
games. These will be for those who show the greater zeal in the
work.
" But, Brethren, in your instruction of the children ye shall
· show them that there is no shame like the shame that shall fall on
him who neglects service, and seeketh ease for his body and the
pleasures of idleness.
"The Seven who have been chosen will set no illard measure of
toil upon the Brethren. They shall in.all things be just, and before
any member of our Brotherhood be cast forth he shall be judged
by the Twelve, and they shall give him a hearing. and judgments
shall be given afterwards."
The Disciples laid their hands upon those who were chosen.
This laying of their hands upon them was a custom which signified
the granting of office to another.
The Twelve Disciples granted what had been theirs in this
manner to the Seven. It hath been told by many that the Holy
Ghost was thus drawn to them. This could not be so, for it lieth
within each man to draw the Holy Spirit of God to him. If he hath
faith and purity of heart, then shall it be given unto him in full
measure.
"The Kingdom of God is within you." Such is the teaching of
the Master Christ ; and that signifies the power to draw the Holy
Ghost within you. No man can give to another t:his power. He
can but exhort him, so that he prepare his soul and have it in
readiness for the charge that shall be rendered unto him.
The Seven were good men, pure of heart and chosoen for their zeal.
They went forth upon the work given to them. But only Stephen,
Philip, and Nicholas were truly possessed of the Holy Spirit ; it
52 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
came to them at times, and at times were they as other men, no
light shining out from within them.
This coming and going oftheSpiritwasmoremarked withStephen
than with the other two. When itwas within him it possessed him
wholly. When it visited Philip and Nicholas,it was as the passing
breath of the wind. But when it was not within Stephen he was
greatly changed. Words would fail him, the power to heal went
from him, and he was as a stone is to a living man to what he had
been an hour before. This failing proved his undoing in his hour
of need.
CHAPTER XVII
STEPHEN RAISES A CHILD FROM THE DEAD
STEPHEN, the first among the Seven, was dear to John. John
could speak with him concerning his dreams and of the manner in
which the Spirit visited- him, giving that light of knowledge that
is not of the earth.
In those days the power of speaking in many tongues, the power
of healing and of showing the might of faith by signs and wonders,
was manifested in the Twelve, but not in others.
Now Stephen yearned to draw the tongue of fire to him, the
visible sign of the Holy Presence, and he hearkened diligently
unto John, and so did Philip and Nicholas. One dim and sultry
evening, having prepared themselves, they sought by prayer and
wrestling with the evil that is without, to make themselves ready
for th~t most Holy Spirit.
When dawn was breaking they kept the Festival of Remembrance,
bre3.king bread and tasting wine ; after that they watched about
the table, as I have told you, with joined hands. A great quiet
fell upon all, and they waited in faith till the wind shook the
chamber and little blooms of fire took shape upon the air. And
Stephen, Philip, and Nicholas were filled with the Spirit, and spoke
in strange tongues; and all the while John, who had prayed for
the bestow~! of this light upon these three, did lie as one dead, the
Spirit passing, through the aid of his Body of Light, to the three
youths who had watched all the night through and waited in faith
during that hushed hour for the holy coming.
Philip and Nicholas received the power of speaking in strange
tongues, but Stephen was filled with the light of the Spirit, and it
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 53
told him to go forth and he would find one that needed deliverance
from the darkness.
It was yet early ; few were abroad, and Stephen knew not what his
work would be. He followed a winding road that led without the
city walls, and he did not pause in his journey till the sun was up
and he had come to a rich merchant's house.
I will speak of this merchant, for his tale hath perished. He was
one who had sought to stir up the Elders against the Disciples, for
he feared the loss of great possessions if their Church increased
in numbers.
This man was Gideon, one that lived evilly ; he practised evil in
secret, appearing to be good and holy to those about him and to
the Elders.
When he found his wife to be a believer in our Lord Christ, he
was greatly angered, and threatened to put her from him if she
continued to believe in the teachings of the Master.
Now their child fell sick and lay in a great fever, and she watched
by him night and day. On the night that Stephen watched for
the holy coming, Gideon came to his house a drunkard, with men
and women from the lowest quarter of the town.
They feasted till daybreak in a room beneath the one in which the
sick child lay, and, as the dawn was breaking, the child gave one
loud cry, and a trembling seizing upon him, he died. The mother,
crazy with her grief, went to ·the chamber where they bad been
feasting to stop the merriment and the evil talk, telling them of
the child who lay dead in the chamber above them.
It was then that Stephen entered within the house, as the Voice
bade him, and passed into the chamber where they were feasting.
The woman thought he was but another of her husband's friends,
and yet he was still and strange even to her anguished eyes, and in
a few words she told him her tale. And, having hearkened, he
cried out in a stem voice and bade the feasters be still.
They laughed no more ; there was no more jesting and foolish
talk among them; for Stephen spake with the Voice of the Spirit,
and all idle clamour is hushed by it.
He told them of the dead child, and spoke hardly to the
father, bidding him and his company rise and come to wait
upon the dead.
When they were all gathered in the upper chamber, he took the
hands of the woman in his, and told her that the Master had bidden
him come to her in her hour of need and, if she would believe, her
child would live again.
The father was wailing and beating his breast, crying out, "Ye
54 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
cannot call back the dead. My son is gone from me, and this is
my punishment."
Stephen bade him be silent, and again all were hushed, for the
Spirit caused the light to shine forth from him and it enfolded the
child. Then the young man took the still warm body in his arms,
and whispered into the boy's ear words that were not heard by
those who watched fearfully about these two, the dead and
the living.
Of a sudden the child stirred, and Stephen cried out : " In the
name of our Lord Jesus Christ I bid thee enter again thy body,
and be whole ! "
And the child raised its head and smiled. Then, laying the little
one upon the bed, Stephen turned and chid these evil men and
women of the town, telling them to sin no more, but to seek salva-
tion in our Lord J esus Christ. And he comforted the wonian; and
the husband, not knowing how this miracle had been wrought,
threw himself at the feet of Stephen, calling him prophet and
master.
Then Stephen cleared the chamber, and he drew unto him this
sinner, telling him that it was through our Lord Christ alone that
"the child had been made whole ; and he taught him concerning the
Church and the Brethren and the Word that must be spread abroad
among all men concerning the coming of the Messiah.
This was the first miracle wrought by Stephen, and all those who
saw it believed, and they were added unto the Church, becoming
zealous workers for the faith of Christ.
CHAPTER XVIII
THE STONING OF STEPHEN
I WOULD continue the chronicle of Stephen.
Gideon led his ~e and son with him to the court of the Temple
and told all who would hearken the tale of his conversion ; how he
had been a wine-bibber and one consorting with harlots ; how
his son had been raised from the dead ; and of his own redemption
from evil ways through the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, who had
sent to him the man of God, to wit, Stephen, with pardon and with a
wondrous sign, showing the infinite mercy of the Lord.
Many were Priests who heard Gideon, for he was a man who did
THE -FIRST PARCHMENT 55
evil only in secret, and was held in high esteem by those who knew
not of his evil practices.
These Priests sought out Stephen and entreated him to give them
tidings of Jesus Christ. And the other deacons, learning of the
urgent entreaties of these people, set Stephen free from the charge
of the treasury for the work of teaching and of preaching in the
synago_gue.
As the tidings passed from mouth to mouth, the one miracle
wrought by Stephen became many miracles ; so that when Stephen .
rose up in the synagogue to preach, the court could not contain
the press of people, and Stephen went forth and spoke without,
that all might see him, even if they could not hear him. And the
Jews of divers nations gathered about him, so that the place was
dark with people.
And Saul at this sight was greatly disturbed in mind ; his hate
increased as the fame of Stephen increased among the people ;
and he sought out those merchants to whom he had borne his tale
of malice-to wit, the destruction of Jerusalem through the Brethren
led by this wild man Stephen.
And the Elders and merchants believed his tale, and yet were
they afraid of the people. "If we lay hands on these men," they
said, " we may be stoned or slain, for these ignorant people believe
in the signs and wonders wrought by Stephen."
Then Saul sought out certain Jews but lately come on a pilgrimage
to the Temple from other lands, and he poisoned their minds
against the saints, saying that, if they were not destroyed, the old
faith would meet with destruction and the Je~sh race be scattered
and lost.
Now these men, Cilicians, Libyans and others, had little fear of
the people, for they dwelt not in Jerusalem and their possessions
were in other lands. But they cherished the faith of their fathers,
and were ready to set a snare of words for Stephen when he
expounded the teaching of the Lord unto the people.
The time was ripe for Saul's purpose. Stephen, in the might of
his belief arid in the triumph of his power, had healed others. And
Saul was eager to check this flood that threatened to sweep all
before it...
Now, the law of Moses may be very subtly interpreted and much
misused by men of cunning speech and evil heart. They demanded
of Stephen, when h,e stood upon the·open place teachingthoseabout
him, if he had not said that Jesus of Nazareth was God.
And Stephen made answer that this was so. Then they charged
him with·blasphemy, saying that there was, according tQ the law of
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Moses, but one God, and not several gods ; Stephen had spoken
even of a third, the Holy Ghost, which he had said entered into him
and healed the child that was dead.
Then Stephen strove with them, showing that the Master was the
Blessed One whose coming was foretold by the prophets. And they
made subtle answers, drawing him on to rites and observan~, and
striving to show that he, Stephen, had taught that faith in our Lord
Jesus Christ was all that was needful for redemption from sin.
While they disputed thus, others chosen by Saul mingled with
the crowd-men who hated the Christians and were prepared to
make prisoner any Christian who spoke with authority. Some of
these were hired by Saul, and had money and clothes from him,
to overbear the young teacher when the sign was given, and drag
him before the High Priest.
When Stephen had worsted the strangers who disputed with him,
those who were in waiting rose up and, shouting that he was a
blasphemer and the messenger of the Evil One, laid violent hands
upon him ; he did not struggle, but suffered them to strike him and
spit upon his face, for he was glad to be chastened for the Lord's
sake. And they bore him before the High Priest, who had been
prepared for his coming.
Stephen was not put in public ward, but judged in haste. They
were afraid lest the people might gather together and make
insurrection against them if it was noised abroad that he had been
summoned for trial. The Cilicians and other strangers of their
company made more fully their charges of blasphemy before the
High Priest.
When they had ended, Stephen made answer and strove to show
them all that the teaching of Christ could be made one with the
law of Moses ; that Christ was the chosen one of whom the prophets
spoke ; that the Christians sought not to make division in faith, but
to strengthen faith and show the fulfilment of the old prophecies.
Such was the power of Stephen's speech that Saul feared he
might not be condemned on this matter, so he bethouglit him of a
snare in which he might entrap Stephen. Not by doctrine, but by
a sign, would he catch him in the net. There was danger, even so,
that he might escape from it, but Saul was ready to dare much when
his hate was rou5ed in those days before his redemption.
He spoke Stephen fair, asking questions concerning the power of
the Holy Ghost and how, working within the man, it wauld work
miracles of healing. And Stephen said that this was so, and that
through the grace of this Holy Spirit, which was of God, he would
continue to heal the sick and make whole the dying.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 57
Saul demanded that Stephen be set aside for a space. Then a
man was borne into the assembly whose body had rotted, so that
he had but half his limbs ; he was so foul that the elders hid their
faces ; only with loathing could man or woman look upon this
leper.
Stephen was now led back by his'guards. The trap being set for
him, Saul charged him with the words he had uttered concerning his
powers of healing through the Holy Spirit, and then called on him,
if he were not an impostor and a blasphemer, to render unto this
leper the limbs that had crumbled away, and to make him whole
and clean in the sight of the people.
The multitude pressed within and heard the charge of Saul, and
saw Stephen spent and weary, for he had been teaching for many
hours·and was emptied of strength and will, and not fitted for this
trial. The Holy Spirit hath naught to do with man's body, but
if he be worn and spent it is easier for doubt to enter within his
heart, for fear to combat the faith of his soul. Stephen perceived
that all eyes were on him, and knew that if this sign were not given
the Church would be much injured ; the ignorant would lose their
faith and he, Stephen, would be slain.
But his heart failed him in that hour of trial. He prayed, yet
doubted the answer to his prayer, so the Holy Spirit fell not upon
him, and there was no touch of healing in his hands when he laid
them upon the leper and in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy
Ghost bade him be whole.
The people did not stir. All men watched in silence for the great
change, and Saul set his gaze on Stephen, and was the first to
speak, saying, " This man is still a leper. Wherefore canst thou not
heal him ? Where is thy God who giveth thee this wondrous power
of which thou hast boasted in the Synagogue and in the market-
place? "
And Stephen strove yet again with the leper, but he had no more
power than a dead creature ; and the man whose body had rotted
was led forth from the hall unhealed.
And Stephen made answer to the question of the High Priest,
saying: "Yea, I have failed. The power was not within me. Yet
am I no impostor. You are a generation that seek after signs ;
and lo I because of the evil that is within you, the sign this day has
been withheld from you, even as in the old days. Your people were
led forth into captivity, and the L9rd God of ISrael sent themnosign
because of their abominations. Like them, you are stiff-necked
and seek to persecute as your fathers persecuted the prophets. You
have slain the Messiah and yet are not sated."
58 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Here the High Priest, Saul, and those about him did make a
great outcry, and set themselves upon Stephen, dragging him forth
from the place of assembly. For they were in a frenzy of anger,
and they knew full well that one who had failed in his hour of trial
to show them a sign would by the multitude be counted an impostor,
and no mercy would they give to him.
When Stephen was without the chamber he stumbled, and those
about him set him on his feet. Then one who had buffeted him
more than others cried out, saying, " He burnet1. I Behold the
flame!"
And, indeed, there was a light like of fire in his countenance,
causing it to shine, and about him there was a radiance that was
not of this earth.
For fear and doubt were gone from Stephen, and the Spirit he
had called in vain reigned within the temple of his body now. He
knew in that great moment of joy that the Master had not deserted
him, and that he was deemed worthy to suffer for His sake. All the
great anguish of his failure passed from Stephen on this wondrous
coming of the Spirit, that did so enfold him about that his wounds
gave him no pain, and the rage of his persecutors stirred only a
great compassion within him.
And, raising his eyes to Heaven, and his hand to bless those that
railed on him, he perceived the Master, and saw that He was with
God. And he blessed these people who had been hushed with fear,
and he told them of what he saw in the Heavens.
Then they wavered, muttering and whispering one to another,
" He is a man of God. Let him go in peace. Behold the light
that is about him I "
Perceiving that their temper was changed, Saul called unto
those he had hired, telling them to accomplish their task. And
some obeyed, and they did stone Stephen. Thus he, who was the
youngest of the Seven who were chosen, was the first to yield up his
spirit, dying without pain, blessing those that slew him, passing
from them as a bird through the air, till it be beyond the sight
of man.
Those who saw him die, and had been hired for this purpose,
were sore cast down, and they feared they had slain one who was
the chosen of the·Lord.
When the drunkenness of their anger had passed from them,
they left the b.ody of the dead saint upon the road and they sought
out Saul, saying: "This is an ill thing that you have done, and we
shall have no share in it."
They cast the cloaks which he had bestowed on them before
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 59
him, and also the price of their hire, departing from his presence
with shamed faces and fear in their hearts. For in that last hour
of Stephen, the martyred one, they had seen God.
CHAPTER XIX
THE SHADOW OF PERSECUTION
PHILIP had great love for Stephen, and he waited without the
place of assembly when his brother in Christ was being judged
within. Gladly would Philip have hung upon the cross for Stephen ;
yet he would not raise a hand against the persecutors. When they
dragged him from the hall, maiming and causing blood to flow
from the young body, Philip, by reason of the faith which telleth
man to turn the other cheek, stayed his hand, though. his heart
·burned, and he could not see those who were stoning the beloved
brother for his tears. He knew little of the end of Stephen ; his
mind was away in prayer that anger might not rise within him,
until one touched him on the sleeve. It was Nicholas, who said :
" It is finished. He is asleep."
Then Philip saw the scattered crowd, the blood upon the road
and Saul, who was standing a little apart, watching as a kite watches
the dying in the desert. Near him in the dust lay Stephen, and
gladness was on the face of his persecutor ; but it changed to stem-
ness when the hired men cast their cloaks at his feet and passed
down the road with shamed faces arld heads hung down.
The shouting had ceased. Men whispered one to another. The
sky was dark, and fear was in the faces of those that stood by.
Phillip went to the body, and, kneeling beside it, he prayed aloud,
calling on Jesus Christ to receive the spirit of the brother.
And Saul came to him. Hard and cruel were his words. He
told Philip and Nicholas to cease their praying.
They paid no heed to him till the prayer was ended. Then
Philip rose; filled with the Holy Spirit, he spake with,Saul, saying:
"We shall take out the brother and bury him. Some day you
will leam that this is an ill deed that you have wrought, Yet it
will but strengthen all our Brethren in the faith."
And Saul struck him on the mouth, saying, " Begone ! This
man's body shall be cast into the pit ; no burial shall be given,
for he is a malefactor, and, if you lay hands upon hirn to give him
6o THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
burial, you also shall be counted as malefactors and cast into
prison."
Philip answered, saying : " Brother, thou wilt repent thee of
thy sin ; thou art not so far off from the grace of the Lord Christ
as thou wouldst have us believe."
Then he called two of those who had stoned Stephen, and who
had cast their cloaks before Saul and demanded aid of them.
Without a word these slayers lifted up, with Philip and Nicholas,
the body of Stephen, bearing it along the road. Saul summoned
the other men he had hired that were not yet gone from the place
of the slaying.
But they would not hearken to him. So he turned him about,
and, having gazed upon the face of Philip in great earnestness, he
said: "This shall be required of you ; many shall perish and your
followers shall be scattered. I will root out this ill weed you call
the Church of Christ from Judrea."
Stephen was laid in a tomb. And on that eve the Disciples
gathered together, and they sought qounsel of one another.
John had seen, when in a dream, the vision of many sheep
scattered upon the hillside, and of a wolf that sought to devour
them ; and he saw a lamb that had been slain. By this token, be
knew that the death of Stephen was the sign of a persecution that
would fall upon the Church ; and in that hour they gave one to
another the choice of flight or the choice of holding fast.
They all declared th~mselves prepared for death. Not one
would take advantage of an offer that had been made by a rich
Jew from Athens who would have taken in his train any of the
Twelve who would flee from the wrath that was coming.
But they gave into his charge certain of the weaker Brethren,
and, despite the argument of those who contended that the Church
would be destroyed if the Twelve were taken, cast into prison,
and maybe slain, they would not depart ; for it was the will of the
Lord that they should remain, they who were the Elders of the
Church.
The six brothers who had charge of the ministrations were sum-
moned before them ; they rendered an account of the moneys ;
and Philip and Nicholas told the tale of Stephen's death once more.
These two were released from service, it being thought fit that
they should be disguised and despatched from Jerusalem upon a
mission to S~maria. In Samaria there would be more safety. The
Disciples knew that the Deacons and Lesser Brethren would in all
likelihood be seized upon first.
Now there was a reason for the journey to Samaria. A false
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 61
Christ had arisen there-one Simon. It was needful that the truth
should be borne to that region by two who could be spared by the
Church for the work.
The moneys were taken to a safe place, to a ca1ve in a hill in the
country without Jerusalem. It was buried theroe in the ground,
the Brethren keeping back such portion of it as was considered
needful for the daily bread ofthe saints, the women, and children.
Few preparations were made ; the Disciples could but warn the
people of. the persecution that was coming, and. urge those who
were fearful to seek safety in other lands.
A few score of them assembled end were blessed by the Twelve
before they set out on their journey ; they promised to spread the
tidings of Jesus among the Jews in those countries to which they
hastened in their dread of persecution.
The knowledge of this scourge to come was made known by the
Spirit only to John. No one had brought word of it to them. Saul
worked in secret, and he would not, till the hour was ripe, make
known to the people that the Christians were 1to be counted as
felons and persecuted.
The anger of Saul was not sated by the death of Stephen : it only
made the greater his hunger for the destruction of the believers in
our Lord. He sought out the High Priest, and these two spake with
certain of the Sanhedrin, telling them that the people of Jerusalem
would not so far permit persecution because of the many miracles of
healing wrought by Peter, and because of the signs and wonders
wrought by others who were followers of Christ.
But now one of ·them had failed in his hour •of trial. He had
called in vain upon the Power that gave strength to heal'. Because
of this the common people were murmuring amonig themselves, and
full of doubt, for many had known this leper, and many who were
not Christians counted upon Stephen to make him whole.
Saul, with cunning speech, showed the Elders that this, then, was
the hour when they should go with him to the Governor and bear
testimony against the Christians, saying :
" These people are conspirators. They share all goods with one
another ; so must they be robbers who divide their spoil ; and they
have also a plan to set fire to Jerusalem, and in. the confusion to
pillage those who have many possessions. They speak openly of
certain words of their Master, who declared that He would destroy
Jerusalem in three days. We therefore now ask permission to d~al
with the followers of this malefactor in such manner that the
conspiracy shall be crushed. The people are with lllS, and we require
only your word behind us in this matter."
62 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
The Elders were well pleased with the counsel given.by Saul, and
they asked him to speak .for them when they sought the presence
of the Governor. If he succeeded in this entreaty, then would they
give him charge of the persecution of the saints. This was what
Saul desired. He had authority among the Sanhedrin, though
young in years, and although but a little time before he had been
unknown in Judrea.
He craved above all else the destruction of the Church of Christ,
for his pride was wounded by the triumph of Stephen over him in
the disputation in the synagogue ; and he was haunted by the face
of Stephen in his last hour. It was not the face of one who had been
humbled ; it was the face of a conqueror.
Saul was eloquent when he spake with the Governor, who, being
a weak man, and having learned also from other Romans of the ill
deeds of the saints, gave his consent to the persecution.
It was Saul who had sought out the Romans and sowed the evil
seed in their minds. The net had been spread with cunning, and all
was prepared for the destruction of the Church.
CHAPTER XX
THE MURDER OF THREE DEACONS BY SAUL
IT was Saul's aim to sever the tree from its roots. He did not put
the Apostles in the public ward-it was not lawful that any Jew
s4ould be put to death by his fellows : only the Roman Governor
could pass sentence of death- but he sent officers in search of the
seven Def1cons. These had charge of the moneys and ministered
unto the Brethren, so, if violent hands were laid on them, the
Brotherhood would be crippled and the Church struck as with a
palsy.
Now Philip and Nicholas fled in the night from Jerusalem, and,
in the guise of beggars passed the guards that wei"e set upon the
roads.
There remained Prochorus, Timon, and Parmenas. These three
were full of health and youth and eager for the Lord's work. In
their charge was the scroll upon which was written the names of the
saints, and what share should fall to them.
Seven others were chosen during the persecutions to take the place
of the Deacons, and these were not known to the officers of the
THE FIRST PARCHMENT
Temple. These seven met the three Deacons on the eve when
Philip and Nicholas set out for Samaria, and gave instructions tot he
young men as to the manner in which they should minister to all
within the Church.
When the council was ended, the night was far spent and the
three drew themselves apart. They prayed together, and, having
sought the blessing of James, they chose three roads and parted
one from another.
At midnight Saul had been given full power to deal with the
Christians, and at dawn guards were po"
sted outside the walls of
Jerusalem-all picked men, some having gone privily among the
saints so that they might become acquainted with the faces of the
Chri:;tians.
Now Parmenas, Timon, and Prochorus were not in any disguise,
fox: they thought to flee in safety at that early hour, and were
taken with certain others of the Brethren who journeyed in their
charge.
All were brought before Saul, and these three, being shown to
him as being the Deacons, were set apart.
Saul spoke first with the other prisoners, and promised them
their freedom if they would declare that Christ was a malefactor
and that they believed but in the law of Moses.
All save one-a woman of fearful mind-refused to deny their
Lord, and were sentenced to imprisonment and to scourging in the
presence of the people.
Then Saul spoke alone with Prochorus, Timon, and Parmenas,
and offered them pardon, money, and letters to his friends in Rome,
if they would deliver to him the secret of the Church and the scroll
whereon the names of the saints were written.
The three Deacons only laughed and mocked at their judge
because of his mean bribery. And he made answer: "To-day you
may be full of courage, for your young bodies have not known pain ;
but to-morrow may be you will have a different tale, and willentreat
me for the pardon and the moneys I now offer y'Ou."
And these three young men answered in a mariner that astonished
Saul. They did not reproach him, but prayed in a loud voice for
the soul of Saul to our Lord Christ, beseeching the Saviour to rescue
him from the darkness in which he was enfolded.
And they ceased not from praying, so he could not make them
hear his voice. In great anger he bade the guards set them in a
prison apart from the others.
They were scourged, and when the sun was high in the heavens
they were placed in bonds upon metal, without covering, their
TH:e SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
woun~s exposed to the rays of light, which scorch~d their living
flesh.
They begged for water, but it was denied them, and but for their
faith in our Lord Christ they would have been as all others who thus
were persecuted-their wits going from .them, the spirit straying
from the shrivelled body.
These three were the first who were tried in that manner and
escaped with their reason. When the sun was gone, they were cast
into what was called a prison, but what was little better than a
noisome pit.
Their sufferings ravaged them as few living men have been
ravaged, so that even those that loved them would scarce have
known them after days and nights of this torment.
· Each morning they were loosed from their bonds and brought
before their persecutor, and he tempted them with the pleasures of
life and with freedom from pain if they would call _
the Master a
malefactor and surrender the secret knowledge of the Church that
was in their charge.
And always these three youths prayed for the soul of Saul,
paying no heed to his utterances, the light of faith shining forth
from their eyes. Wh(m the guards gagged them, they prayed
inwardly, but when the gag was removed they broke forth into
prayer again, and it was ever for the salvation of their persecutor.
This was a slow martyrdom, for they were in the prime of their
strength, in the bloom of their youth. No brother was nigh to
them to succour them with healing exhortation and with prayers.
Daily were they tormented by the scalding sun and nightly by the
crawling things of the earth.
Prochorus was the first to yield up his spirit, and, when two
remained, Saul came to them in their prison and his heart was
touched. He besought them to surrender and he would set them
free on that hour.
They could only answer in a whisper, and Saul had to put his ear
to their lips to hear the words ; they were a prayer that the Lord
Jesus Christ would release him from his blindness.
Then Saul strode forth from the prison dark with wrath and
tormented in mind, for it had been whispered in the town that he
had slain one of the Christians, and thus had he broken the law.
These two, Timon and Parmenas, after great crying and after a
great quaking of their bodies, did also pass hence ; and they had
been, as the guards testified, steadfast unto the end.
These guards cast their arms and their clothes from them, and
sought out one of the Apostles on that eve ; and when they had
THE FIRST PARCHMENT
found Th4ddreus they entreated him to baptise them. "For,"
they said, "We have had charge of men that were angels. They
were not mortal. We also believe in their Master whom ye call
Christ."
And Thaddreus, hearing these words, and seeing that they wore
but the robe of the people and had cast from them the clothes of
their office, did bring them unto the Apostles ; and they were, in
a later day, zealous workers for the Lord.
Now there was much talk concerning these three Deacons. Their
guards had gone, and they had gone also. For the guards, fearing
the wrath of Saul, hadsought a place where they might hide, without
Jerusalem.
And the High Priest and Gamaliel ~me to Saul. And Gamaliel
spoke with him concerning the rumour that these three Christians
had been slain.
Saul stoutly denied the charge, saying, -"They and their guards
did conspire together. The guards, being bribed by the Christians,
loosed them, and all ·have fled from Judrea. They are no longer
within my charge."
And Gamaliel spake with Saul concerning the folly of persecution.
But Saul, who was haunted by the four Deacons whom he had slain,
was more than ever set against the Christians, and he would not
hearken unto the old man. Saul saw the shapes of the four youths,
Stephen, Prochorus, Timon, and Parmenas, in dream, and always
were they praying for his soul, beseeching their Master that he
should be saved.
And Saul dared not rest, fearing these visitations ; only when he
was wearied utterly did he sleep. Unceasingly he continued in his
work of persecution, and he was confident, believing in the
righteousness of his deeds.
But, if he halted for an hour, these young men did shape them-
selves in his mind, ever praying·for him. And he knew in his heart
that they had conquered sin and de~th, and that only through some
power of God could they have thus withstood the temptation of
life and its joys. Therein lay the sting for one who still railed against
Christ and told all men that the Master was a sorcerer possessed
by demons. ·
Ec
66 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOJPHAS
CHAPTER XXI
SAUL'S HAND IS STAYED: HIS FAILURE TO KILL THE APOSTLES
Now Saul and the Elders were sore cast down at the stubbornness
of the saints, and they held counsel together.
"Naught will destroy their false doctrine! " said one. "Nay,
nay, the fear of death will humble them ! " said another. And
Saul was in agreement with this speaker.
So Hanan, who thought well of him, drew him aside, and they
sought out the Governor and spoke with him concerning the dangers
of insurrection. They told him that the Chlristians had planned to
set a light to Jerusalem, and in the confusion to make an assault
upon the Roman soldiers and seek to drive them from the land.
Now there had been much talk among tlhe Romans concerning
an uprising of the younger generation of the Jews. So they were
prepared to lend an ear to this tale of a conspiracy. Yet they did
not desire to sit in judgment on these Chlristi!ans. So the Governor
gave to the Elders and certain men of good repute the power to
take life from the prisoners, if it was deeJDed necessary for the
safety of the State.
Then Saul and Hanan chose from among 1their fellows those that
hated the Christians, and to these was given power to judge whether
a man should die. And judgment was decided by voting.
Now it was expressly laid down by the Governor that the Twelve
should not come within the ruling of these judges. He was bound
secretly, by one who was of his kindred, not to permit any hurt to
be done to the Apostles. The father of the Roman maid who was
healed by Peter had made this demand of the Governor before he
departed from J udrea, and this kinsman had much power in Rome.
So the Governor made a bond with the High Priest and Saul, saying
that it would be foolish to lay hands upon the Twelve ; they being
the leaders, it would be more likely to cause a sudden rising of their
followers if they were scourged and cast into prison.
Saul and the High Priest had to conteo.t themselves with the
judging of the lesser saints ; any of these who had preached or
taught in the Temple were held to be guilty of sedition, of seeking
.to cause a rebellion among tlhe people of Judrea. And tlhey were
sentenced to death.
The autlhority of Saul increased witlh tb.e passing of tlhe days
during tlhe persecution. It increased with tlhe spreading of tlhe
tale tlhat tlhe saints were conspiring against: the rich, and against
THE FIRST PARCHMENT
the merchants and the State. For Saul was zealous in his work,
and ceased not from speaking against the saints. He haled them
forth from the synagogues and their homes. And in those days
numbers of the saints were done to death, so eager were those men
for the shedding of innocent blood. Only in this manner could he
escape from the Four Invisible Watchers whom he had caused to
be slain, and who tormented his quiet hours with their prayers for
his salvation.
So it came to pass that, whim the Church was smitten with
persecution, many were cast into prison by Saul. Even the mother
and the babe to whom she gave suck were not spared, if she declared
her faith in Christ Jesus. And all the women and children were
herded together in the public prison, and so many were they, and so
great the press amongst them, that theweaker diedin great numbers.
Few were afraid of death. It was but another wonder that the
old and young, the feeble and the strong, should make a joy of
hardship, should glory in the stripes that were given them, should
rejoice in their hunger and thirst.
Soon the prisons were filled, and, though these were visited by
the Priests and the Elders, who sought to reason with the
saints, yet they held fast to their faith in Christ Jesus.
Now the Elders and the High Priest were perplexed, because
they could not crush out the faith in the prisoners' hearts. And
it became a hard matter to find·lodgment for those who were found
daily to be members of the Church of Christ.
And the Elders sought out Saul, saying : " Thy persecution hath
failed to d~stroy the new beliefs. Still these Twelve teach and
preach, and their followers remain faithful'to them."
But Saul asked them to have patience and give him more power.
Many fled to other towns, and sent succour, money and food, to
those who remained at Jerusalem.
In Damascus there were certain of the Christians who spread
tidings of the Lord, and their doctrine was eating up the people as
fire devours the parched ~ass. Soon there would be no belief
in the Lord of Israeli Soo.n they would wor;;hip only this male-
factor I So the High Priest and Elders gave Saul letters to be
delivered unto those in authority in Damascus, and these letters
gave him power to persecute in that region also and throughout
Judrea.
The zeal of Saul increased daily, and, though he dared not put
the Apostles in public ward, he contrived other ways to put an end
to their labours for Christ. In his cold anger he set a snare for
the Twelve.
68 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Certain of his hired men had gone among the Brethren in the
guise of Christians, and these had obtained tidings of the hour
and the place wherein the Twelve assembled, so that they might
pray together and hold counsel with one another as to the succouring
of those who were in the greater need within the Church. And
Saul did bethink him that if he gave much gold to certain
men who were not officers, but people of bad repute, they would
seek out the Twelve in their Hour of Council and mayhap
slay them.
Then Saul bade certain young men of evil repute to his house,
where a feast and much wine were set before them. No word was
spoken concem.ing the slaying of the Twelve. He did but taunt
and mock at these young men because they had permitted the
Twelve to live, and had let them go unscathed.
Then he told them of the meeting-place of·t:he Twelve, and incited
these youths with wine and words, urging them to stand for the
faith of their fathers and destroy the Church with the sword.
Now Azor was the leader of these young men, and he was quick
to anger. And, the wine having heated his blood, he called on his
companions to follow him and seek out the meeting-place of the
Twelve.
A servant of Saul was prepared to give them guidance, and,
when the night was fully come, they set forth armed with swords
to wreak their vengeance upon the Brethren.
At the gate, Saul, knowing well the temper of these youths,
sought to stay them. They were but the more eager when he,
with cold words, warned them that this was a dangerous work,
and that he would have none of it, f9r he liked not the spilling
of blood.
They showed him .their weapons and laughed at his speech,
promising to bear into Jerusalem the heads of those who conspired
with the "malefactor," as they called the Master Christ. ·
When the sound of their feet had died, Saul turned away with
joyful mind at the thought that those whom he hated more than
he hated the Evil One would soon be dead and ready for burying.
He fell into a muse, thinking of the authority and power that
would be his if he destroyed the Church of Christ, when lo I the
images of the three Deacons rose up before his vision again! Once
more he heard their prayers for him, and these prayers seemed like
bitter taunts rousing all the wrath within his soul.
Crying out upon them, he smote the air, as if he would strike the
flesh of these shadows that were as visible to him in that still hour
as the stars in Heaven.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT
Perceiving his folly, he passed from the chamber of feasting to
a small room that was above it, where he slept. And there he
knelt down and entreated the Lord God of Israel to bless his work,
to exterminate this nest of scorpions before their poison had
perverted the whole race of the Jews.
And he rose from his knees comforted, feeling sure in his heart
that the Twelve would be slain that night, and, with them, the
knowledge and memory of the Christ and all His works. And all
that evening Saul was filled with a strange joy, thinking that he
had triumphed over Stephen and his Brethren, and that these evil
spirits, as he called them, would no longer torment his quiet hours,
sleeping and waking, both in the night and in the day.
The moon gave her clear light to the young men who had feasted
with him ; soon they were nigh to the secret place where the Twelve
Disciples assembled to hold counsel and to keep the Hour of the
Watch. It was needful in those perilous days for them to meet
and seek, through the unison of the Twelve in one Body of Light,
to bathe themselves once more in the Holy Spirit, and thus obtain
guidance for all the Church.
They prayed and partook of the Feast of Remembrance; they
joined hands so that there might be a greater power for the mingling
of the Holy Spirit ·with the mortal spirit. On this night :Peter,
James, and John were greatly stirred and filled with faith, though
they had been warned that men with swords were seeking them,
and at that very time were on their way to slay them.
Azor and his company of fifteen youths beat upon the closed
doors ; on receiving no answer, they opened them and passed
within. But the stillness of this house silenced Azor and his
companions. They had been singing and shouting as they mounted
the hill ; now they ceased of a sudden, and glanced from one to
the other; a great uneasiness fell upon them, and they whispered
that the saints were maybe hidden and would rush out upon them
with knives.
These youths had entered the chamber with drawn swords, and,
when they were all within, their young bodies stiffened, they were
as numb and still as idols in a temple ; they could not stir or raise
a sword, but stared with fearful eyes upon the Twelve, who were
seated with joined hands at the table, and in the midst of the table
was the Cup of Remembrance.
The room was dim and misty, and a strange vapour rose from the
Cup. It passed through the pale air, and it was thick and dense
to the eye : it enwreathed these youths, and pressed upon them
like the coils of a snake. They were choked and strove for breath.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
But the Twelve stirred not, paying no heed, waiting with joined
hands for the revelation of the Spirit.
Many tales were told of that night in Jerusalem. One said that
the Lion of Judah did appear and guard the Twelve; another,
that four beasts, never before seen by man, came out of the mists,
so fearful in shape and in the blazing light of their eyes that none
could face them and live.
But these are tales told by the youths, who in truth saw naught
but mist and the dark vapour, and twelve of the Brethren possessed
by the Holy Spirit.
After a short space the youths felt their bonds loosened. They
fell on their faces and crept from the chamber, not like men, but
like the beasts of the field.
Madness seized upon them, and they fled, as ifdeath itself pursued,
staying for naught by the way, resting not till they were within
the town. And there they sought their kindred, and told of the
strange sorcery upon the hill.
At a late hour Azor sought out Saul, and gave him tidings of
what had befallen his company.
It was hard for Saul. He could not,· for a space, believe the
words of this youth, who was said to be without fear.
Then at last the persecutor knew that he had once more failed
to uproot the tree of the Church, and he fell into a great anguish
of spirit. ·
He knew now that there was some power, not of earth, that
possessed these men, and that he was warring against some Mighty
One who was greater even than Saul. And Saul was a proud man
in those days, and believed that he had greater wisdom than all
the Elders.
Soon the tale of the slayers was noised abroad, and it took many
shapes. Yet the one I have given you is the truth, as it was told
in the Book of James.
Fearing his own dreams, and fearing the reproaches of the Elders,
the mockery of the merchants, Saul hasted away from Jerusalem,
bearing with him letters to one Eleazar in Damascus, who had a
great hatred for the Christians and had bidden Saul to that city
with authority from the High Priest to persecute the Christians.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 7I
CHAPTER XXII
THE CONVERSION OF SAUL ; HIS BAPTISM AS THE APOSTLE PAUL
I WILL speak of the change from darkness to light in the soul of
Saul, for as the sun giveth light unto the moon, so did the teaching
of our Lord Jesus give life unto what seemed dead and cold.
The tale of Saul is for all mankind. It doth show that however
many the sins, however great the evil within the man, yet may it be
purged, and he may through his own faith and the grace of the Holy
Spirit become a prophet and a teacher, a holy one set apart, as Saul
was set apart, a chosen vessel to bear the 4Uth unto the Gentiles.
Now Saul and certain officers of the Temple set out upon the
road to Damascus. It was not the season for the making
of journeys, and there were few upon the road.
The sun gave forth a great heat, and Saul was weary. He had
not slept for several nights, and all his days had been filled with
cares. Certain of the Elders had_spoken with him concerning his
failure to uproot this heresy and he was filled with fury. Gamaliel
had softly mocked, saying, "You have not yet bound Christ.
The malefactor roveth to and fro. Haste to snare the Christ, else
will he come upon you unawares and overcome you I 11
So Saul, as he journeyed, was spent in body and mind. And
he was stricken in spirit, as a tree much bent by the scourging of
many winds. Not the least of his torment was the memory of the
four youths that prayed for him and had been done to death by him.
Hour by hour went by in silence, those in the company of Saul
not daring to speak with him, so "
dark was his face and baleful the
glance of his eyes.
It was nigh to Damascus. 'the company had fallen back a pace
or so to speak together. And lo I as they muttered one to another,
they heard a great cry, and they saw Saul cast up his hands to
Heaven and throw himself on the ground.
No one was about him, no one before him on the road. They
hastened to his aid. As they drew nigh to him, a Voice that was
not Saul's came so softly that it seemed to steal out of the air,
and the wc;>rds it uttered caused them to halt, waiting for the
answer of him who lay upon the ground, as if smitten by a spear.
" Saul, why persecutest thou Me ? 11
These words were sounded three times, and after the third
utterance Saul made answer. But his speech was broken and
strange, and again the Voice was heard by the men of his company,
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOF'HAS
Then sought they who it might be that spoke thus with their
master, and yet was n9t near. There were no trees, no shelter,
upon the road. The land was bare and rocky.
Perceiving naught, they grew afraid, and 1raised Saul up, crying
out, "Master, what ails thee? What is this strange Voice that
calleth out of the air? Master, speak to us and give us comfort ! "
And Saul, opening his eyes, gazed upon them and cried out,
"It is dark I I hear your voices, yet I see nothing! The Lord
hath spoken unto me. I have seen that Chris;t, whom I persecuted,
is, in very truth, the Son of God."
And he told them of the vision of the Master. But they murmured
one with another, saying," His mind is stricken, but let us humour
him, lest he rise up in wrath against us."
So they bore Saul into the house of Judas at Damascus, and
sought out Eleazar, telling him that their master tarried by the
way, sick. It was in their mind that Saul would be whole
within a few hours or when the night was overpassed.
On the morrow Saul was still in darkncess, and the darkness
without was no greater than the fear and gloom within. For he
was not yet whole in the Spirit, and wrestled with evil thoughts.
and with anger that took upon it fearful shapes. In the after-
time he would not willingly speak of those hcours, so great was the
torment, so fearful the anguish of this strong man.
For three days Saul lay in darkness and neither ate nor drank.
He was shaken to the very depths of his being.. Yet he was content,
if it so pleased the Lord Jesus, to rest thus in darkness till death
came to him. At times, it is true, a great despair seized him, for
he yearned to undo the deeds of evil committed by him. Those
whom he had done to death no longer troubled his peace, but he
was fearful lest he should go down into the grave before he had
shown by words that he was a believer in our Lord Jesus Christ.
It was on the third day that a change came to him. The Voice
once more sounded in his ear, and he was told that he might choose
whether he would bear the tidings of our Lord unto the Gentiles
or whether he would even now reject the work that was waiting for
him. And Saul exulted in spirit, and cried out that he was ready,
if his sight were given unto him, to bear testimony to his faith, and
to do the bidding of the Voice, spreading the light among the
heathen.
"Make no answer till I have made clear what lieth before thee
if thou wouldst take this burden upon thyself." These were the
words that sounded in the ears of Saul.
.
Then out of the night there came to him image after image of the.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 73
coming years. Strange were many of them, yet he understood their
meaning as they passed by.
Here was a troop of young men like the young men who had
feasted with him, and had sworn after he had talked with them to
slay the Twelve Apostles. But these youths, imaged thus upon the
night, cursed Saul, and showed their weapons unto him, swearing
that they would not sleep nor eat until they had ~lain him, because
he taught the people that Christ was the Messiah and had risen
from the dead.
And another image succeeded, blotting out this shapt-. Saul
perceived himself tied and bound, and men scourged him with
whips, and spat upon him and buffeted him. In other images he
hungered and thirsted in the wilderness, and he suffered all the pains
of death many times from persecutions by the enemies of the
Church. His own cruel death he saw-his martyrdom among the
heathen in a distant land-and all this toil and pain and tribulation
were for the sake of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Fearful were the images in that blind night that was about Saul.
When they had ceased, the dark was still and deep and once more
the Voice spake unto him, saying: "Choose, Saul! Wilt thou
bear this burden? Thou hast seen the tidings of the years before
thee. Wilt thou receive thy sight and takt: upon thyself this life,
or wilt thou cease from living, and thus escape from this charge ? "
And Saul made answer: "I am ready, Lord 1 Show me the
light and I will follow it ! "
The Voice spake no more unto him, but on that eve Ananias
came unto the house of Judas, and he, laying his hands upon the
brow and upon the eyes of Saul, prayed that they should be opened,
and that he should see. And lo 1 Saul was whole once more and
saw those about him. And he forthwith entreated Ananias to
baptise him, for he was a great sinner who had repented, and was
prepared to show his zeal for the Lord.
Saul was overborne at last ; his stubborn mind was bent into the
shape that was needful, and peace came to him and he rested. For
now was he the servant of Christ, and in service he found freedom
and repose for his spirit.
At the very hour of his repentance, the Lord spake unto Ananias
and commanded him to go unto the house of Judas and bring
healing unto one who was named Saul and was blind. And this
saint heeded his words, hasted forth from his dwelling, and sought
out Saul.
Power was given unto Ananias to give sight both to the eyes and
to the soul of this great sinner. Thus did a man who had no learning,
74 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
and but the simple faith of a child, lead this Pharisee to Christ who
had studied in the Temple and had acquired the wisdom of the
schools, and he showed him that in the teachings of the Lord there
was true wisdom, beside which all other learning is but foolishness.
This is the tale of the healing of Saul. When he was baptised,
they asked by what name he would be known among the Bz:ethren.
And he made answer : " I am vile. There is no name that I am
worthy ·to bear, unless it be one that is a sign of my littleness of
soul, of my weakness and of myfoolishness in thedaysof my youth."
So was the name of Paul chosen by him. And in the days when he
strove with the Gentiles, and the heathen wondered at him and called
him" Master," it was his custom to whisper this name as a reminder
that he was little in the sight of the Lord, and less worthy than the
least among the Brethren.
CHAPTER XXIII
OF THE DIFFERENCE IN DOCTRINE BETWEEN THE PHARISEES
AND THE SADDUCEES
PAUL was chosen for many reasons to be ~ vessel for the Lord.
He had in his childhood lived at Tarsus, in Cilicia ; in his youth he
was also in Rome. So had he knowledge of the Gentiles and their
ways. His father was a Pharisee, and had sought to bring up his
son according. to their hard rule.
So from childhood Paul had zealously studied the faith of his
fathers, and he believed with the Pharisees that a part of man dieth
not. If he had been of the Sadducees, who believe that there is
no rising from the dead, then it would be hard for him to have
faith in our Lord, even after his vision of Him and after he had lost
the sight of his eyes. .
The PhariseeS did not believe that Christ had risen in His mortal
body and had appeared in this wise unto the Twelve.
But the doctrine of the Pharisees was not so much opposed to
the teaching of the Master as the doctrine of the Sadducees, who
believed that there was no resuuection.
The Sadducees believed in the Lord God of Israel ; ih one who
bad created all things for His pleasure, who could quild up and
destroy ; who could once again cause some great prophet to arise
among the people of those who had prophesied in the olden days.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 75
Certain teachers were born again, accOrding to their belief, but
the multitudes, when they died, went down into the Pit, and they
were as the grass of the field that withereth and is gone.
The people gave little thought to what followed death. The
Priests and those who were learned believed that what was holy
in man could not die. It was gathered as the ears of com are
gathered from the fields. The grains were one and yet many, all
being gathered into one store.
There were certain of the prophets and learned men who judged
only by the seasons. As the blossom and the flower withers and
the seed is scattered, so, they said unto themselves, is the life of
man. We die, and yet we live. We live in the children that are
born to us.
It was thus a reproach in their eyes if a woman be barren, or if a
man have no children to bear his name and life among the coming
generations. There were ever _
two ways of thought. And the
Sadducees were of those prophets who cried, " All is.vanity I " for
they saw little purpose in a life that was passed from one to another,
that bore within it no memory, that seemed not to r~ap what it
had sown. In the hearts of these men was only bitterness and
despair.
CHAPTER XXIV
PAUL MAKES PUBLIC AVOWAL OF HIS CONVERSION
THERE were many Disciples in Damascus but lately gathered into the
Church, and there was no leader or preacher among them. So they
were in great dread when they heard of the coming of Saul, and of
those who had died through him at JeruSa.lem.
They gathered together and sought counsel one with another.
Some werP for fleeing unto the coasts, but others, who had their
trades and their families, knew that hunger might be their death if
they left their work and wandered into strange places. Despair
seized upon these Disciples ; they beat their breasts and cried out
that persecution was not to be borne.
If needful they would deny their faith. And they prayed with
one voice, making known their weakness to the Master, beseeching
Him that this cup of bitterness might pass from them, for they were
not able to face persecution and still keep burning the light of the
Church.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Then Ananias appeared among them a:nd said, " I have been
with Saul, brethren." At that a great lamentation arose, and all
in that assembly believed that their last ho·urs had come, for great
was the terror of this evil name. At last, quieted by the strange
bearing of Ananias, who lifted up his voice, giving tpanks unto the
Lord God for His many mercies, they asked of what mercies he
spoke. And he told them of the miracle by the way, and that Saul
was now a brother in Christ Jesus.
At these words Paul entered the chamber, and, making confession
of his sins, showed the Brethren that he was: one of them in faith-
only, the least among them. But with fearful glances they passed
him by, fleeing from that chamber, so that Ananias and Paul of all
that gathering alone remained.
And Paul was greatly cast down, saying : II They will have none
of me I I am as a leper. They will cast me forth from among them."
Then Ananias counselled him to go boldly into the synagogue and
tell the tale of his vision of the Master, and to declare himself one
of the Brethren. At that time they were not yet known as
Christians.
It was soon a:fter the hour of prayer; many were passing through
the court without the synagogue when Paul. arose and called unto
the people to hearken.
Now Eleazar, who had known Paul in past: times and who waited
for his coming so that they might together persecute the Brethren,
was entering the synagogue when he heard a voice that caused him
to halt, for it had command in it and must be heeded. He was
amazed to perceive Paul telling the people of Jesus of Nazareth,
and how this Jesus had come to him and struck him blind because
of his unbelief. And full confession did Paul make of his sins before
his friend Eleazar could believe that this waiS indeed the guest for
whom he had prepared a feast that was to herald the persecution
and destruction of the Church.
When at last he knew that it was indeed the young Pharisee, the
friend of his youth, he passed through the c1rowd and charged him
with lying and blasphemy, with deception, with all the evil that he
imagined to be in the hearts of those who be~jeved in Christ.
Paul answered : 11
Brother, it is thou that art deceived. Thou
liest unto God in doubting the truth that hath been laid before
thee. The Messiah was hanged upon a tree and betrayed by us
Jews unto the Gentiles."
Then there was a great commotion, Eleazar calling upon the
officers of the synagogue to seize Saul, whom he charged with being
possessed of devils. And the people were maJcing a great clamour,
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 77
some saying, " This is Saul, the chosen of the High Priest " ; and
others that he was an impostor ; and yet others that he was a
brother of Saul of Tarsus ; and the people gathered about him so
that, as they disputed, he slipped from among them, and, when the
multitude was scattered by .the officers, Saul was not there. And
certain who were questioned said that he had not been there at all,
and that it was but an idle dream.
Yet again Paul bore testimony unto Christ in the synagogue, so
that what had been rumour and hearsay became knowledge. And
the Disciples doubted no longer, and sought out Paul, welcoming
him to Damascus, and asking him to dwell among them and aid
them if persecution was set on foot by Eleazar.
But word was brought that Eleazar had made a plan to slay him,
and with his servants was seeking him at that very hour throughout
Damascus.
Gladly would Paul have faced the slayers, for he yearned to give
his life for Christ ; but Ananias and another dre.w him aside, saying :
" It is a harder matter for thee to live than to die, .brother. The
Lord ha,s called, so that thou shalt go up into Jerusalem and destroy
the snares thou hast laid there for the saints. The Brethren are
dying daily because of thee. It lieth with the«::, therefore, to undo
this ill thing, to slay the beast thou hast created."
So they hid Paul in a hole beneath a floor, and the servants of
Eleazar sought him ~oughout that quarter of the town. They
walked upon that floor ; yet did they not find Paul. And Eleazar
was greatly displeased. He set a watch at the gates of the city, and
every man who passed out of it was questioned by the guard.
It was the custom during the night to pass goods over·the walls
when the gates were closed and the people slept. So they made
a basket, and they laid Paul within it, and at daybreak he was
lowered from the wall unto the ground and then borne in this wise
over much country, and in the evening, when they were in safety,
he was loosed from his cage.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
CHAPTER XXV
THE CONFOUNDING OF SIMON THE SORCERER OF SAMARIA
I WOULD now speak of Simon and of Samaria. When the Master
still walked upon the earth, a certain man named Simon did summon
evil spirits and did, through their aid, work strange marvels among
the simple people of Samaria. These spirits would, at his bidding,
pelt men with stones, so that they would be persuaded that unclean
spirits were seeking to enter into them and possess them. Then
would they entreat Simon to drive away these evil creatures with
his spells. And on the instant they would cease from their stoning.
Much money was thus paid to Simon for driving hence the evil
spirits he had raised.
Simon would frighten women by causing evil shapes to appear
unto them ; and so cunning was he that they knew not that he had
summoned these creatures and caused them, through his sorcery,
to become visible to the eye. Then they would seek out the sorcerer,
and entreat him to drive away these demons that followed them ;
and he would, with words and signs, and by the power of his will,
cause them to go hence and be no more seen. And these women
gave him money and goods. The men also paid him in kind, and
it was perceived that only those who had money were troubled
by these evil spirits.
But Simon could only work for ill. He had no gift of healing.
If a man were possessed by an unclean spirit, he could not cast him
out from the sufferer. For he trafficked with the demons, and it
is through the power of faith, the power of the Spirit, that men
are made whole.
Now Simon made a .journey to J~rusalem, and he witnessed
certain of the miracles performed by the Master. He would have
sought Him out and spoken unto Him, but it was nigh to the days
of the trial and the crucifixion. And, on hearing that the Master
had been hanged upon a tree, Simon returned to his own place.
But he had greatly marvelled at the faith of the multitude who
had hearkened to Christ, and he yearned for this power over
other men.
So it came to pass that in the days follo~ing Pentecost, he spoke
with certain- dwellers in his own country, and he learned that many
believed in their hearts that Christ was the Messiah, though they
did not speak openly of it. So Simon withdrew himself into a
desert place and there he practised the arts of magic. He grew a
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 79
beard, and let the hair of his head grow long ; and he wore goat- .
skins, and did bear the staff of a shepherd. Then, when he was ·
sure of the obedience of his evil spirits, he came forth from that
desert plac-e and went into Samaria. He spoke unto the simple
people of that land, saying: "I am he that was hanged upon a tree
at Jerusalem, as ye have·heard. I told you that I would rise again
from the dead aBd appear unto you a living man once more. And,
because the people of Samaria are dearer to me than any, I come
unto them and show myself unto them, before I go up to Jerusalem
and take my place as the Messiah."
These were the words of Simon, and many of the simple people
believed that he was our Lord Jesus Christ. And they came and
worshipped, laying offerings at his feet and calling him " Master."
Then was his fame n0ised abroad, and people came unto him
from a great distance, bringing with them the sick, the maimed,
the halt, and the blind, so that he might heal them. But he said
unto them, " Ye be an evil and adulterous generation. Ye
sought to slay your prophet, or have permitted that He should be
slain. I am in truth the Son of God ; yet I will not heal you because
of this evil that ye have wrought."
And they believed that their Messiah was angry, and were sorely
affiicted, fearing that he would bring famine or plague upon the
land. So they sought his forgiveness, bearing him rich gifts, and
begging him to cease from his anger and show his mercy by causing
the lame to walk and the blind to see.
Now, when his possessions were increased and much.money was
his, it was Simon's purpose to set out for the sea-coast and to seek
another land, where he might become a merchant, bearing another
name, who would be held in repute for his wealth, an1l for the
number of his slaves;
Word was brought to the A'postles at Jerusalem that Christ had
risen up in Samaria and was preaching to many, yet was he neither
in his doctrine nor in the manner of his life like unt9 the Master.
So Philip was sent unto the region of Samaria. And when he found
Simon, he bowed not doW!} to him as the pilgrims bowed, but
rebuked him, saying: "I have been with our Blessed Lord. Thou
blasphemest in taking upon thyself His name. Haste to repent,
lest the Holy Ghost smite thee and thy body crumble as dust into
the ground."
Now Philip was young in looks, and Simon defied him, calling
him a beardless boy, and making mock of him. Then, when the
people came and gathered themselves together without hi~ house,
Philip rose up among them, saying: "I am come to bear witness
So THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
to the truth. This man hath deceived you. He is not Christ, for
l have seen the Master, and I know that this fellow is but a sorcerer,
who can work no miracle, nor can he bear to you the true teachings
of Christ. Ask him for a sign and he will not give one unto you.
Yet shall I show you that I, who am the least among those who
followed the Master Christ, may, through the Holy Spirit, heal
those who are sick. For, though I am of little account, yet am I
His servant, and thus I am blessed with His power to hei! and to
cast out devils."
Those who had been with Simon pressed about Philip, b~seeching
him to lay his hands on them and make them whole. And, Simon
being present, Philip made answer to their entreaty by casting out
from one woman unclean spirits, by giving sight to a boy who was
blind, by causing an old man afflicted with a palsy to rise up and
walk, declaring that he was whole ; and there were others who
clamoured to be healed.
And Philip said : " Ask your Messiah to heal you. Let him
show you that he is our Master Christ by giving unto you signs that
shall testify to his being the Son of God."
And when they came unto Simon with these words he was shamed,
and cast himself at the feet of the Disciple, crying out, .. I am not
Christ I I have lied before you all! Yet I am prepared for
repentance, and I believe in our Lord Jesus Christ, and that He is
risen into Heaven and sitteth on the right hand of God."
And Philip had compassion for Simon, and spake with him
privily. And because his anguish was great, and because he had
abased himself and laid his moneys at the feet of this Disciple, he
was received into the Church and was baptised.
I would have you know that Simon in that hour truly repented,
and was greatly shamed ; and he did strive With the covetousness
in his soul, and for a time did he triumph. But his mind changed
as the wind changes. It was in part through fear of the wonders
wrought by Philip that he was led to make confession and to repent
of the evil he had done. So, though his sin was great, it had been
pardoned. Howbeit, those who have intercourse with evil spirits
may not lightly cast them off. So it was that Simon repented of
his repentance ; the old cunning of his nature returned, and he was
tempted ; and evil desires sprang up in his soul when the evil spirits
whispered unto him in the hours of quiet.
Peter came unto Samaria when he learned that many believed
because of the miracles of healing wrought by Philip through the
power of the Holy Ghost ; and when Simon learned that yet another
who had been with the Masterhad come unto Samaria, he bethought
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 8:r
him that these two were not of God, but sorcerers who had great
power through their knowledge of the manner in whi<;h a mighty
Spirit could be summoned, who then became ready to obey them
in all things. So he went to another village where certain moneys
of his were hidden in.the ground. And it came into his mind that
he would buy the Holy Spirit from the Disciples. He would offer
them gold for the secret words and signs which, he believed,
summoned the Spirit.
And, greeting Peter as another. and mightier sorcerer, he made
his request unto him, showing him the moneys, believing that
the sight of them would cause the Apostle to render up his
secret.
Then Peter spake sternly to him, saying : " Thou art deserving
of death. Let thy money perish. Let thy body be Withered off
the earth; for thou hast blasphemed against the Holy Ghost."
I And Simon qu!iked in all his limbs, and besought Peter to forgive,
as the M!ister Christ forgave others, and to withdraw this blasting
curse before his body withered from off the earth.
But there lurked within him all the vanity of a weak man. He
would at any time sell the birthright of innocence and virtue for a
foolish fame that cometh through leadership of an ignorant people.
So, at a later time, Simon fell away once more. And of these
many trespasses- I may write at the appointed hour, setting them
in due order in the chronicle.
CHAPTER XXVI
PAUL AND THE HIGH PRIEST: PAUL'S SCOURGING AND FLIGHT
Now while Paul was lying at Damascus the persecution of the
saints increased greatly at Jerusalem.
The High Priest sought to drink up the Church as an ox drinks
up a wayside pool. The prisons were filled with the Disciples,
and each day the tribunal sat in the place of assembly and sentenced
certain of the saints to death. The Apostles might not preach
even without the walls, a strict watch being set on them.
And in that dread time many hearts failed, the Church was
sorely oppressed, and the Twelve could not succour the weaker
Brethren or comfort them by reason of the guard that had been set
about them. So they prayed ~thout ceasing unt() the Lord that
Fe
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
the Church might be preserved and a miracle wrought before the
rock of faith was riven, before all were scattered by the persecution
of the Elders and the High Priest. For many had fled unt<O Crete
and Cilicia, unto Cyprus and Antioch-wherever there might
be safety.
It came to pass that, in the very hour when Hanan declared to
the Priests in the Temple that he had overcome this heresy and
destroyed the Church, tidings were brought unto him that Saul
had lost his wit!'! and was preaching in the synagogue at Damascus,
declaring that J esus Christ was the Son of God. When this was
noised abroad in Jerusalem, there were murmurings among the
people. And certain of the Elders, who had not dared to speak
their minds, now declared to many that this persecution was evil,
·and that it would lead to turmoil, and peace in the town would
be at an end. As waters whipped by the wind rise in flood,
so did these words rise up, reaching unto the ears of the Governor.
And he was perplexed, and sent unto Hanan, saying that he should
deal less hardly with these followers of Christ, for ill might come
of it, if the rod of punishment were wielded unsparingly. But
Hanan silenced him with smooth words, promising that no harm
would come of it.
As I have told you, Saul was lowered in a basket down the wall
at Damascus ; like a bale of merchandise he journeyed in ·the
company of merchants unto Jerusalem.
It was near daybreak when he came into the city ; and .before
he made himself known publicly he remained in prayer for an hour
or more at the Temple, seeking guidance on that great day when
he would declare for the first time in Jerusalem his faith in ou.r
Lord Christ.
He had set his heart on making confession of his errors id
the presence of the multitude, and before those who hated the
Messiah.
There were few in the Temple at that hour, and it was cold and
dim, and Paul prayed for strength so that he might acquit himself
bravely before his fellow-countrymen and confound his adversaries.
And lo ! as he prayed, a light shone. It was not the rising sun,
nor was it any light within the Temple. It was the Flame of the
Most High, the lamp that perisheth not, that doth not grow old-
the Light Everlasting. And a Voice spoke from the midst of the
flame : " Hasten from Jerusalem, Paul. Bear not testimony in
the synagogue. Thou art not chosen to bear the tidings of the
Gospel to the Jews. Thou art chosen to bear the truth unto the
Gentiles. So go forth from the city gates while the day is yet
THE FIRST PARCHMENT
your.g ; for the wicked are like an adder in thy path, and it is My
will that thou shalt be preserved to speak for me among the
heathen."
Now Paul had a wrestler's soul, and he had not yet learned to
submit in all things to the Word of the Spirit. He yearned to
preach in the city in which he had persecuted, to show the
people the error of his ways, and thus win many souls for Christ.
And he cried out : " Lord, let me speak but once in the synagogue.
Let me tell of the vision on the road to Damascus. Let me abase
myself before the people, so that they shall know Thy name and
believe. Then will I depart in peace."
"Nay, Paul, thy word will not bring peace, but a sword," was
the answer.
Then did this young Disciple beseech the lioly Spirit that he
might be permitted to declare his faith.
" This is through pride and not through humbleness that thou
wouldst thus confess thy sin," was the utterance of the Voice.
" I will not stay thy hand in this matter. Thou must learnthrough
suffering. Go ; speak in the synagogue, if thou wilt ; but ask not
for the protection of the Spirit if thou art beset on the day when
thou speakest."
The Light Everlasting did rise into the air and pass from the
Temple, and lo! Paul was alone. Confused he was in mind, not
knowing which road he should follow. He sought out the Twelve,
but they did 11ot believe in his repentance. And when he was
come among them, and when he had made confession of his sins
and abased himself, they drew off from him, fearing that this was
but another snare that had been set for them.
But Paul cast himself at the feet of James, beseeching him to
hearken.
The Holy Ghost was not with the Apostle at that time, so he
was as another man, without discernment, fearing many things,
his heart faiJ,ing him. Peter was not in Jerusalem, and the Apostles
were cast down and believed that Paul came but to smite them,
and thus destroy the last remnant of the faithful in Jerusalem.
Yet they would not flee, holding fast, choosing death rather than
that they should loose their hold upon the Holy City, where Christ
had died for them.
Then was Paul sorely troubled in mind ; but the Lord appeared
unto him in a dream, saying : " Go up unto the High Priest, and
the Holy Ghost will show thee what thou shalt do in that hour.
And thou shalt loose the bonds that are about the Church. Haste,
therefore, so that a sign shall be given unto My children, and thou
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
shalt be approved by them and chosen to bear My name unto th~
Gentiles."
Then Paul girded up his loins and sought the High Priest at
sunset, when he was alone within his chamber. Hanan knew not
that his fellow-persecutor was in Jerusalem, and was glad at heart
to lay eyes upon him once more. For Saul had been of more service
to him than his right hand, and he believed that this young man
would prevail with the Governor, who, that very day, had sent
him word that his mind was not yet at rest concerning the
persecution.
For Paul had been with the Governor and had spoken with him
privily, confessing that he had erred, ~d had told lies about the
Christ so that he might obtain power with the Elders. And he
besought the Governor to give orders that the persecution should
cease, and the prisoners be freed. Now the Governor was amazed
at these words and gladly would he have hearkened unto them.
But he was doubtful in his mind, fearing the Sanhedrin and the
High Priest. So he would not yield to Paul. 11
Show me that
Hanan is of thy mind ; then will I let this people go." Such was
his answer. " If the Elders and the Priests still seek the blood of
these men, I cannot gainsay them; for some of them have power
in Rome, and mayhap the word of Hanan would overthrow me."
And the Governor was troubled in his mind, for he was a just man,
and he had divined that it was from malice and jealousy that the
J ews thus persecuted the followers of Christ.
So, when Paul was come unto the chamber of the High Priest, he
was welcomed, but the greetings and salutations of peace from the
High Priest, who sought to conceal his knowledge of what had
befallen Paul at Damascus, were received by him in silence.
Hanan spake of the ordering of the tribunal for the judging of
the saints, and of the manner in which the Church was being crushed,
and of the tales that were told concerning evil sorceries that were
practised by the Twelve, showing that they were possessed by the
Evil One. Then Paul could no longer contain himself; with hasty
words he told the High Priest of the vision on the road to Damascus,
and of all that had befallen him since that time. He sought to win
this old man for Christ. Yet are there some that naught will win
from their evil purpose, and Hanan was one of these. Yet was he
ever smooth of speee>h, and he spake unto Paul, saying :
11
Thou hast been dreaming, or mayhap the heat of the sun gave
thee a fever. I do not believe in this vision, nor will I believe in
aught that is not given unto me in the teachings of Moses."
And Paul reasoned with him for a space without avail. Then did
THE FIRST PARCHMENT ss
the Spirit show him how he might manifest the truth even unto
this crafty Priest. So he promised him that, if he would remain
still, he would show him a sign as strange as the sign that was given
upon the road to Damascus. And the High Priest was well-content,
for he believed that no sign would be given, and then Paul would
doubt, and be turned back with cunning speech from the road he
had chosen.
The chamber was dim, but darkness had not yet come upon the
earth. And Paul did gaze-upon the High Priest. And as he gazed
he prayed, yearning with all his soul for a sign that would confound
Hanan. And strange was the vision that was set before them.
There came within the chamber a long green body that seemed
without end, coiling about the walls. And it was evil-smelling and
foul. It had eyes that shone with a red light. And lo l Hanan
looked upon it and knew it to be the old serpent whom ye call
Satan. No sound came unto them as they watched; but the head
of this evil beast drew nigh to the High Priest. No man could stir
within that chamber. Dread had seized upon Hanan like a palsy,
and he could not cry for help.
" If thou wilt not let go the followers of the Christ, this serpent
will devour thee, and thou shalt lie within his belly when thou bast
passed out of Sheol I " Thus spake Paul ; and once more there was
silence. So still was the air, it was as if all living things had died.
The serpent drew closer to Hanan ; and, when it seemed that he,
from fear, would yield up the ghost, it vanished, and there was
thunder and lightning and many voices. And the chamber was
shaken, and the two men within it did cast themselves on their
faces, crying out unto God for mercy.
As a man cometh out of sleep, so did these two pass from out that
hour when the sign was shown, entering once more into the living
world as from some far place that is not nigh the earth.
Now Paul was much shaken ; yet was he the first to speak ; and
he did prove to Hanan that, if he continued in his persecution of
the saints, be would surely die, for another sign would be given him
and he might not come back a second time from the jaws of the
serpent.
And Hanan bethought him of Peter, and bow this Apostle had
smitten Ananias, so that he had died for what was a less~ offence
in his eyes. Then did this cunning Priest know fear ; for he judged
that Christ had taught His Disciples certain secrets found by Him
in Egypt, which was the land of sorceries. And he believed that he
could not fight against these men and live. So, at the bidding of
Paul, he sent word unto the Governor, saying that he was of one
86 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
mind with his brother Paul, and that the persecution should cease
in Jerusalem, and that the prisoners should be freed. So the
Governor gave orders that this should be done, and that the saints
should be permitted to return to their liouses.
Now there were certain of the Elders who were exceeding bitter
in their hatred of the Master and His followers. These men were
members of the tribunal, and some of their kindred were Grecian
Jews who had a great feeling for the Temple and the traditions of
their fathers. These were greatly dismayed when they learne::d that
the saints were loosed from prison. And the Elders, who were
seated at the tribunal, summoned the High Priest unto them. and
he was yellow and shrunken as a shrivelled orange, and could
scarcely speak, so greatly was his mind shaken by that hour passed
in the dimness of his chamber. Yet he made it plain unto the
Elders that he had chosen to be of the one mind with Paul, and that
it was at their word that the Governor had caused the persecution
to cease.
Then a great clamour arose, and the Elders strove with Hanan ;
but he would not dispute with them, for there was no strength in
him. He was dumb through a weakness begotten by fear, and he
stumbled from the place of assembly upon the arm of his servant ;
and the Elders on that instant received word from the Governor of
Damascus, who was under Aretas, the King, that Paul had escaped
from Damascus and had caused much scandal in that city through
his teaching of sedition.
Eleazar, who was of the kindred of the Governor ofDamascus, had
first striven with him ; then, when they sought to seize upon him,
he had been hidden away from the soldiers.
This was the tale of a messenger despatched by the Governor of
Damascus to the Elders. This Governor was appointed by Aretas.
and had full liberty to rule that city as it pleased him.
Now the Elders took counsel with one another, and they were
minded not to act while great heat was on them. So it was deter-
mined that on the morrow they should go unto the Governor and
demand that the persecution should continue until there was no
longer any faith in the " malefactor," as the Master was called, in
J udrea.
When the morrow was come and the Elders were assembled,
Gamaliel appeared among them.
He was much disturbed in mind, for secret tidings had come to
him from Rome. The Emperor would make of Judrea a Roman
province, and it was rumoured that he desired to set a statue of
himself in the Temple at Jerusalem, showing to this turbulent
THE FIRST PARCHMENT
people who it was that, of a tm th, was their mast1er and their god.
He was angered at the smallness of the tribute rendered unto
Cresar, so it was his wish that this stiff-necked people should be put
in bonds-should be forced to give in moneys what was considered
seemly and the due of the Emperor. These rumours from Rome
were baleful Gamaliel had always feared that a h1eavy yoke would
be laid upon the people of J udrea, and here was the menace of a
greater persecution than had been known for many years.
The Elders had respect for Gamaliel, and they kn.ew that what he
foresaw to-day would come to pass on the morrow ; so they
hearkened unto him when he spake unto them,. saying: "Jew
persecuteth Jew; the brother's hand is raised against the brother.
There is division among our people ; so are we feeble and with no
health in us, the prey of the Romans, because th.ey stand to one
another and are of one mind and one purpose. Brethren and
Elders, let us cease from the persecution of one another. Let this
strife with the followers of Christ be ended. So sbtall we be strong
and prepared for the tempest that is coming upon u:s."
And no man lifted up his voice-no man disputed with the
learned doctor. With grave countenances and anxiou:s whisperings
these old men passed from their council chamber. And no word was
borne unto the Governor concerning the persecution of the saints.
Paul yearned for the blessing of the Twelve, atrd gladly would
he have been of their company, so that he might sit at their feet
and learn of the Master. But they would not hold speech with him,
for they feared Paul and the destruction of which he might be the
cause, no revelation having come to them concerning him. So he
went into the synagogues at an early hour, and !>egan to teach the
Gospel of Christ, and to tell of his vision upon the road to Damascus,
and his deliverance from the Evil One.
At that time no member of the Church of Christ taught in the
synagogues. For, in the early days of the persecutioJn, they bad been
driven thence with spears and goads. And some of the faithful had
been slain when they bad preached in open places, so that no man
durst open his lips and preach the Gospel to the multitude within
the walls in those evil days. Great was the uproar, therefore, when
Paul rose up in the midst of the people and confessed his belief in
the Messiah.
Certain Grecian Jews who had been taught to speak in the schools
at Athens disputed with him, thinking with cunning; speech to cau:se
him to stumble. But he spake out boldly, paying no heed to them,
telling of the Master Christ and of His infinite mercy. For He had
forgiven Saul, the greatest ofsinners and the least of:men.
88 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Then, when the Grecians perceived they could not ensnare
him, they bided their time. They durst not lay hands upon him
in the synagogue, for the Governor had made a proclamation that
those who were of the sect of Jesus Christ should not be molested,
and should be permitted to go free ; for they were as the other
Jews of their nation, and under the protection of the laws.
So, when Paul ceased from speaking and went forth from the
synagogue, the Grecians followed him ; but so did one of the saints
who had hearkened to his teachings and was astonished by them.
In a quiet place the Grecians carne suddenly upon Paul, and, having
seized him, they menaced him with rods, threatening to slay him
if he would not declare that he had erred and that Christ was not
the Son of God.
There was no yielding on his part. He would not deny his
Lord. So they scourged him, and forty stripes were given unto
him. Then were they affrighted, for he seemed not to breathe,
and he was left as dead by them upop the road.
Now Barnabas was the saint who had followed Paul from the
synagogue, and had witnessed in silence this persecution of the
one-time persecutor. Strangely stirred was he by this torment
of a great sinner, and he wept for his brother when the Grecians
had departed and he was alone with the dead body. •
But lo ! it stirred, rising and falling back upon the ground.
Then Barnabas found a well near by, and he bathed Paul's wounds;
and, when a little strength returned, he helped him, with the aid
of another saint, to a dwelling-house that was nigh to the road
and in the possession of one of the Brethren-Ceph'as.
When Paul's wounds were healing and the weakness was gone
from his limbs, Barnabas led him unto those who sat as the
Twelve Apostles, and told them of the martyrdom of the new saint
who had dared all for Christ. And they blessed him and talked
with him of the Master. •
The Grecians, learning that Paul, who had preached in the
synagogue, was Saul the persecutor, sought to slay him. For they
had turned back upon the road, seeking him on the day they had
scourged him, so that they might make sure of his name and race.
But there was no one on that road ; so they knew that he had not
died, and they vowed that he would not pass out from 1erusalem
a living matl. .
1 "TheseTwelve were not the Twelve chosen by the Master. They were scatte~d
abroad at that time. But there were ever twelve to sit in their places when they
were not in Jerusalem. These were to the number of one hundred and forty·four.
The twelve here mentioned had some authority as being of this number. When Paul
was at Jerusalem in those days, of the Twelve Disciples who had followed Jesus and
sat at His feet during His life, he spoke only with James and Peter."
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 8g
One night a beggar, who was in the company of others seeking
alms, departed from Jerusalem. Twisted as a sickle was he, and no
man knew that he was Paul. He went down to Cresarea, begging
his way upon the road, and from thence was despatched to Tarsus.
Paul was not known for many years as a teacher of Christ by
the members of the Church in Juda!a. They had but scant know-
ledge of him. They did not seek to hinder him in the time when
the way was prepared for his journeyings. Thus it was that one
who was last, in the west among the Gentiles, became first.
So ye know not, at the beginning of some great work, what will
be the strange end to it.
He who uttereth Alpha may not utter Omega.
CHAPTER XXVII
THE STORY OF DORCAS
IN Joppa, a town that was upon the sea, dwelt a merchant who
was of good repute, strict in his beliefs and one of the Elders of the
synagogue. He was called Levi, and he had but one daughter,
named Dorcas, who was much beloved by her father's friends.
In her youth certain of the merchants of the town sought her
in marriage. But she desired to devote herself to the service of
the Lord, so she remained a virgin, despite the wishes of her father,
who desired that there should be men to follow him of his blood
when he was gathered to his fathers.
Now Dorcas was in the middle years of her life when Levi deter-
mined that they should go up unto Jerusalem to worship in the
Temple, and to trade, and speak with the Elders concerning the
law of Moses. For he loved the faith of his fathers, and, turning
neither to the right nor to the left, would walk only in the ways of
Moses according to the laws that had been graven on the tables
of stone.
Dorcas had given much thought unto the faith of her fathers,
and had perceived that the younger generation of the Jews were
not in any real manner ruled by it in Joppa. They lived carelessly,
practising evil in secret, committing fornication, and privily breaking
the law of Moses, while openly they would demand its observance.
\
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
They were like whited sepulchres in their souls ; and so it was that
Dorcas had set her face against marriage with any one of these
hypocrites. She often pondered upon this falling away from the
faith of their fathers. Yet she could see no way to grace. They
.were an evil generation, that sought only the gratification of their
lusts.
So Dorcas prayed unto the Lord God of Israel, entreating Him
not to be angry with His people, to save them from themselves,
and not to destroy them. And when she was with her father in
Jerusalem there came unto her a light; and she knew that her
prayer had been answered, and that she was, perhaps, chosen as
the one to bear this light unto her own people in Joppa.
It was on this wise. She was in her father's company at sunset,
and they were passing along the road, when, of a sudden, she
perceived a man who was like unto no other man, who was tall
and straight, with the brow of a king and the walk of one having
authority. .Yet his eyes were gentle, and upon his face was a
strange peace, as of one who had lived and suffered the woes of all
men since the world began, so that at last he had winnowed from
them the peace everlasting. Yet there was sorrow in the shape of
his mouth and gladness in his glance. Before him men gave way, as
if he were some great lord, yet he was but poorly clad, and his
sandals were worn, his garments stained and soiled by the dust
of many roads. And Dorcas, looking upon his face, cried out,
"Master! " casting herself at his feet. She knew not that He
was Christ, but her spirit knew Him, and thus gave Him greeting.
Then did Christ withdraw a few paces from t'be road ; and, like
a cloud of flies, the multitude, coming from all quarters, gathered
about Him. Dorcas was still close to Him, and she heard Him
teach the people, speaking in parables, and showing them how
the Spirit is in all things, yet that we must be seekers of the Spirit
or we shall not find it, losing ourselves only in the gross matter
that decays. In simple tales this was told to the multitude. But
the father of Dorcas would not tarry long, and he drew her into
the depths of the crowd, so that she saw the Master no more.
All the evening of that day she gave thought unto the words
He had uttered: and on the morrow, within the court of the
Temple, she heard a young man preaching the Gospel of Christ,
and telling the people that were about him of the words of the
Master.
From that hour Dorcas believed on His name. She did not
again see Christ ; but, by secret ways, she learned more about Him
and His teachings. She might not seek Him openly, for her father
THE FIRST PARCHMENT
had been much with the Priests and Elders, and his bitterness
against the followers of Christ was strong.
He had been told that the Master ·sought to destroy the law of
Moses ; that He derided the prophets and declared that He was
God. And when Dorcas affirmed her belief in the Master, as being
one who, if He was not God, had walked with God, her father struck
her on the mouth, and bade her be silent. And he sought b'y
punishment to wean her from her faith in Christ. So she would
not speak of Him. But, in the days when she had returned to
Joppa, she kept all these teachings in her heart, seeking ever to
shape them into one whole, so that they might be unto her as a
staff of life.
And the evil increased in Joppa, and Dorcas was greatly troubled
in mind concerning her own people. For they had become a
byword and a reproach, and no one might stay them in their wicked
ways.
Now was her father old, yet was he stem of spirit. When Dorcas
spake of Christ to the women, it was made known unto him, and
he commanded her to hold her peace, for, if she did continue in
this manner, he would cast her out of doors.
As a bird carrieth a seed over great distances, and from that one
seed there will spring forth a plant that begetteth many others,
so a whole field of it may, in time, be ripe for harvest. Certain
beggars came unto Dorcas for ahns, and she taught them privily,
and they did believe. Thus were the tidings of Christ first brought
unto the humblest in Joppa, and the rich men, the sinners, knew
naught of Christ. And Dorcas gathered about her good women
who made clothes with her for the 'poor: · And she taught them,
bidding them to keep the Word of Christ from their husbands,
if these might not be trusted to be silent on the matter, so that it
might not come unto her father's ears.
Upon certain days of the week Dorcas and these women gave
the garments they had made unto the poor, and then they prayed
together and sj>oke of the words of the Master. Many more of
these had been gathered by Dorcas from a young man, one of her
kindred, who had come ~to Joppa from Jerusalem for purposes
of trade, and for a few days lived in her father's house.
But evil increased in the town, and Dorcas remained troubled
in mind. Tidings had been given her by her kinsman of the.hanging
of Christ upon a tree, of His rising from tpe tomb, and of how He
had been seen by many of His Disciples. So, when her father
spoke of the evil end of the malefactor, and poured scom u;x>n the
name of Jesus of Nazareth, she held her peace; for the truth was
92 ' THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
treasure~ in her heart, and she would not permit rust to fall upon
it through any sharing of it with those to whom it was not holy.
Now, when the persecution had cast its shadow over Jerusalem,
many rumours concerning it came to Joppa, so that at one time
Dorcas believed that the candle of faith had been put out, and
that she, and her women and her beggars, alone had belief in the
Master. And she mourned the saints many days, and a great
darknes:; of spirit was hers. Her father, with his mockery and his
bitter words concerning the dead saints, gave her no rest, and peace
was gone from her utterly ; yet was it only for a space. She
wrestled in prayer with her fears and doubts, and she triumphed
over them. ·
Then were tidings borne unto Joppa that the persecution had
ceased in Jerusalem. And Dorcas and the saints gave thanks unto
the Lord for His mercy, and now were sure that naught could
destroy the Church of Christ. But the evil increased among
the rich Jews in Joppa and among all those who traded in that
town.
Dorcas spoke unto her father concerning it, and he made answer
that it was no concern of the women. And he bade her be silent,
and remember that, with his passing, there would be none of his
seed to follow after him, so that she had better look to her duties,
and not have contempt for the wickedness of others. And Dorcas
held her peace. But when she was alone she entreated the Lord
to send one of the Apostles unto Joppa. And she prayed that he
might come while yet she lived. She yearned for the salvation of
her people.
Now there came no answer to the supplication of this sister, and
fever visited the town ; and she knew in her heart that she would
be stricken by it. Yet she ministered unto the beggars, and sought
in that evil time to succour all those in the faith who were possessed
of this fever.
When it was nearly ended and she was weaty, she fell sick also,
and soon it was known in the town that she was like to die. Levi
was stricken by this fever, and he \Vas gathered to his fathers while
she yet lived.
And, even in her sickness, her mind was clear, and she knew that
she was dying and that for which she had yearned all her days was
not to be granted unto her.
Dorcas spoke of this deep sorrow, telling a sister who tended her
that it was Christ's will that she should not see the light of His faith
in Joppa. It had been her prayer that she should be chosen for
one great work of the Lord's. Yet this was not permitted, and so
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 93
she believed that she was a great sinner, and she did not die in
peace, bnt died sorrowing.
Now when peace had been restored unto the Brethren, and all was
in order at Jerusalem, Peter determined that he would seek the
saints who were in all quarters without the town. Many of the
saints who had fled from persecution had borne tidings of the
Master to strange lands and to the regions round about Jerusalem.
It was needful that one of the Twelve should go to aid them in their
building up of the Brotherhood. For it was determined that each
village should have its community. All these would look to the
Twelve at Jerusalem for direction except in matters of daily import,
where they would be guided by those who had wisdom among them.
So it was needful that Peter should instruct these saints who were
scattered throughout the land in the ordering of their Churches,
and strengthen their faith with his fiery words. Peter could exhort
men to prayer, to faith, and to love and charity in a manner that
stirred men's hearts, and won them through the workings of the
Spirit rather than through the workings of the mind. This is the
one sure way. Reason is but the unseeing brother of faith, and
only through the guidance of faith can one attain unto that purity
of the whole man that is seemly and is of sweet aspect in the eyes
of God. It is because faith and reason are loosed from one another,
and no longer guide and check each other, no longer keep the same
step, that we of the Invisible seek to show you once again by words
and signs the truth of the Invisible-the truth that Christ died
for you.
Now Peter came unto Lydda, a little town; and there he found the
faithful gathered together ; but they had no shepherd, and not a few
among them doubted. So he abode with them for a space, and
prayed that the Spirit might come unto him, !hat he might show
a sign to these people of doubtful mind.
And he waited and watched, and lo ! one morning there came to
him that stirring within-that sweeping about him of the winds, and
that great gladness which is not of the earth. And Peter set forth
in great joy from the house in which he lodged, and soon did he find
that which his prayers had for many days sought in vain. A saint
had lain stiff and rigid for eight years, as if his body were stone.
He was not guided by the blind Brother Reason, but by the Brother
Faith, who knew the messenger of Christ, and, with the voice of
.?Eneas, the sick man, cried out : " I have been waiting for thy
coming, 0 holy prophet, these eight years. Heal me with the
breath of the Spirit whom thou bearest within thy soul, and this
body of mine shall rise up and walk and leap once more."
94 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
And Peter laid his hand upon him, saying~, " Arise, take up thy
bed and walk."
There were many of the saints assembled a'bout him, for they had
talked of his faith and wondered at it, yet had they not believed
that he could be made whole.
Howbeit, he arose on the instant, and, talcing up his bed, he bore
it from the chamber. Then all the people cried out with one voice,
" He is of God1 " andthey knelt down and g:ave thanks for the sign
that had been sh\wn. Certain of their company were traders, and
they bore the ti~ of this wonder to Joppa.
Now Dorcas was dying when they spoke with the beggars who
were of the little Church of Christ which she had, through her faith
and wisdom, built up in Joppa. And these: beggars were waiting
on the road outside the dwelling-house in which the sick woman lay,
when word of the marvels wrought in Lydda was brought unto
them. And they spoke with one another eagerly, saying, " Mayhap
this holy man will drive forth this plague from Dorcas, if he cometh
but in time." So two, who were runners, departed for Lydda to
find Peter and bring him to the woman who had ministered to
their souls and bodies, and was now herself in need.
The talk of the crowd caused a woman to come forth from the
dwelling-house to bid them be silent. Then came another to
summon them to the sick woman's chambe:r, for she was passing,
and desired to look once more upon these beggars who were to her
as brothers and sisters, nearer to her than her own kindred.
Free to enter the house now that her father was dead, they
passed into the sick-chamber where she lay and struggled for the
life that was leaving her. And on her face there was not the peace
of one satisfied to enter into the rest of the Lord. For her prayer
had not been granted. And the beggars who watched perceived
that her soul was in anguish, and she was as a prisoner beating at
the bars of his cage. They could not cormfort her, for no words
could reach her ; and so they perceived that she passed from her
body sorrowing.
They made her ready for the burial, laying her between clean.
linen sheets, and bearing spices to her. The beggars stayed within
her chamber, mourning and beating upon their breasts. Her kindred
did not put them forth, for she had asked that they should be
permitted to remain and watch by her d~ad body.
Then those who had departed for Lydda to find Peter returned.
And Peter was with them. And he knew why he exulted so greatly
in spirit-that a mighty work lay in his patlll if only he were found
worthy to accomplish it.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 95
They led him into the chamber in which lay his sister in Christ.
And he, beholding her, knew of her yearning through the power of
the Spirit that was within him. And, though he·told no man, he
perceived the Body of Light that bore within it this woman's spirit ;
and it was nigh unto the body of flesh, and seeking to enter into it,
because it had so yearned to remain within it until salvation was
brought unto Joppa, and she had reaped the first fruits of her
sowing in that barren place.
Then Peter cast about her the Holy Spirit that was blended with
his Spirit. And it healed the flesh and made the mortal shape a
temple wherein the spirit of Dorcas might again dwell.1 And the
beggars who watched this holy man saw naught save a little
mist that did hang for an instant about these two ; and they heard
only the words of Peter : " Tabitha, arise. Thy prayer has been
granted."
And lo I her body stirred like one who sleepeth and hath hard
dreams. And all who were present united in prayer for her coming
back from Sheol. And she sat up as they yearned, and smiled
upon them. There was upon her no sign of the plague. Her body
had the colours of health, and her voice was firm and strong as she
gave this holy one greeting.
All were amazed, and the kindred of Dorcas hastened to the town
with the tidings of this wonder. It passed from mouth to mouth
like the wind, so that many men who were evil, and had mocked at
Dorcas and her beggars, went to wait outside her house for the
coming of Peter, sending word that they would hear him speak and
would diligently hearken unto him.
The press was great when Peter came among them. And it was
his hour. The Spirit had uplifted him, and he bore testimony unto
Christ, speaking of His sacrifice upon the cross with such earnestness
that all men believed. And the mockers repented of their evil
talk. Those who had practised abominations came unto Peter
and entreated him to baptise them and show them the light and
the truth.
So Tabitha, when she once more walked abroad, found that a
great work for the Lord had been accomplished through her ; and
that through her dying was there testimony made, and the evil
men and women of Joppa believed on the name of Christ.
1 "I would teU you of a certain writing that was given to the people concerning the
raising of Dorcas from the dead. A chronicler hath said tha~ Peter put forth all
those that were within the chamber of Dorcas. This was but a half of the truth.
The press of feople was great about the bed, so Peter told them to be gone i and all
but certain o the beggars and her kindred left the chamber. Those who remained
did kneel down and watch, and I have written down for you what they saw in
that hour."
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
The harlots cast their jewels and their fi1
ne clothes at the feet of
Peter, the merchantsboreunt~m their moneys, andthe old women
ceased from painting their faces and tyring their hair. Even the
strict Pharisees, who believed, as had the father of Dorcas, in the
laws of Moses, and who held that Christ was a malefactor, changed
their ways of thought and confessed unto Peter that they had
been misled and would now hold to the teachings of the Master.
Peter abode many days in Joppa, for the ordering of the Church
was a hard matter in this town. Those who have been sunken in
wickedness and turn swiftly to righteousness have many devils to
wrestle with, and these oft-times gain the upper hand if there be not
one near them when they stumble, to bear them up with words of
faith.
There was no preacher in Joppa for a space. Yet Dorcas laboured
unceasingly, and she spoke privily with the women, who then
instructed their husbands in the teachings of the Master. Thus
she laboured for many years in Joppa, and when, at last, she died,
the town she loved was cleansed, and there was a smile of peace
upon the dead face.
Tabitha is the first woman who bore the tidings of the Master
unto a people who did not know Him. The chronicle of her labours
has perished, so have I essayed to set it down for you.
CHAPTER XXVIl£1
THE TEMPTATION OF PAUL IN THE WILDERNESS
BARNABAS went unto Antioch, and he we1
nt with more than one
purpose in his mind. He loved that strange man Paul, and had
had no tidings of him ; so he chose to seek out this blazing torch
that seemed to have flickered out. It was easy to journey to
Tarsus, and, when he had come there, tidings were given him that
his friend had gone into the wilderness, and that many days might
pass before he was found. Bamatas was trooubled by these tidings ;
yet he was a man of much firmness of purpose, and no hardship
caused him to turn back from the road he had chosen.
It was about the tenth hour of the day when Barnabas espied a
hut in the wild place where Paul had chosen to lodge, and he per-
ceived one who was more like a skeleton tlban a man. The figure
that rose from the dust and came to give him greeting was tall and
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 9?
·gaunt, and, when salutations had passed between them, this starved
man opened his mouth and ~poke of his life in that desert place.
" Am I Saul or Paul ? " was the question he asked of Barnabas.
" Brother, but for a short time was I filled with the Spirit, then
there camedarkness again. Mineeyes were no moreblinded, but the
wrath of my flesh, and its ha..tred of the Master Christ and His
followers, rose up within me. So did I flee from Tarsus and from
men, fearing that once more Saul would rule over me. And here,
in this loneliness, have I at times been possessed of devils, and I
have yearned for the blood of the m,artyrs. I thought of the joys
of persecution, and the sweet savour that arose from the afflictions
of the prisoners who were tormented by me because of their faith
in Christ. I have wrestled day by day with this Old Adam, Saul,
and at times he triumphed, and I thought but of the manner in
which I might once more prevail .with the High Priest and the
Elders in Judrea so that they would once more persecute the saints.
Now with thy coming, brother, all is changed. I have but one
desire, one faith, one hope, and that is Christ."
And Barnabas made answer : " Friend Paul, the Spirit did give
me guidance in this matter. I knew thy need, so am I come unto
thee to wrestle with Saul for thy soul. This is but the time of
preparation for thee. It showeth that thou hast been chosen for
some great purpose. The Holy Spirit hath withdrawn from thee
for a short space, so that thou mightest stand alone, for only in that
manner mayst thou learn thy strength and thy weakness and to
triumph over the-Old Adam. In the name of the Father, Son, and
Holy Ghost I bid him begone from thee for ever. Saul hath no
further part or lot with Paul. He is dead, and thou art risen out
of this old evil that did torment thee for a space."
Then Paul gave a great cry, saying that the Spirit was come unto
him again. And he was changed from·that hour and was like unto
a man who hath in truth been with God.
For a short space he abode in that wilderness in the company of
Barnabas, and he .did exult in his new strength and was possessed
with faith and the fear of God. That was the last time of failing
with Paul, yet was it not so much failing as the hardening of all
that was weak within him. So that he was, from that day forth,
through his will, a giant among men. He might still be hasty
of speech and stirred to wrath by the enemies of the Church, yet
was he steadfast in all matters of the faith, .and he yielded to no
man in his joy in Christ Jesus, his joy in hardships, persecutions,
stripes, and torments for the sake of the Master.
Paul was ashamed of this time of trial in the wilderness, and
Gc
g8 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
few·knew of it, and when he spoke of his sins, and that he was the
lowest in the Church, he did bethink him of this time of weakness ;
yet he spoke of it to no man save Barnabas, who was truly his
friend and brother.
CHAPTER XXIX
PAUL'S DEALINGS AT PAPHOS WITH SERGIUS PAULUS, THE ROMAN
GOVERNOR. AND ELYMAS THE. MAGICIAN
Lucius, Simeon, and Manaen welcomed Paul, Barnabas, and Mark
to Antioch, and all worked together in charity and love with one
another. So the Church prospered, and the Spirit therefore com-
manded three of these to draw themselves apart, and guided them
so that they ·chose Paul, Barnabas, and John.
These latter passed seven days in prayer and in meditation, and
they fasted so that"their bodies might be temples cleansed in every
part and prepared for the fire of God. And on the tenth day Lucius,
Manaen, and Simeon prayed over them, laid their hands upon
them, and sent them forth upon their journey with the blessing and
the supplications of the faithful at Antioch.
First these messengers of the Most High abode in Salamis, where.
Manaen had prepared men for the tidings of Christ. And there were
many Jews in this town. So the field was wide, and these three
did labour in it early and late, compelling men to hearken unto
them, and ever drawing about them, when theyspoke, the multitude,
·which was not of one race only, but merchants from distant lands,
traders from the east and west, certain noble Romans, and even
men from that land at the world's end which you now call Spain.
These were heathens of a simple mind who found it hard to
understand the teaching of Christ, yet were they eager to believe,
and they spoke privily with Barnabas and Paul, saying, "We hold
this doctrine that ye teach no more than the river-bed holdeth and
keepeth the water that cometh from the hills. Howsoever, we
would serve your prophet and believe in the one God who is Three
and yet One. For in our land we are troubled with many gods,
and they give us little peace, sending us wars and sickness, famine
and sorrow ; they are jealous of the joys of men, and they seek
ever to rob us if there is abundance or a good harvest. Come,
therefore, to Spain·and drive out these gods, and set up this One
God in Three who beareth but goodwill to men. We are weary of
THE FIRST PARGHMENT 99
these lean years and of the torment that cometh from these gods.
If ye visit us they will flee before your Messiah as the darkness
fieeth before·the light."
And Paul promised that, when he was freed from his labours in
the lands that were nigh to Judrea, he would bear the Word unto
Spain, unto the world's end. But he strove to show them that
the Lord might, out of His good will, at times send them lean years
so that they might learn the truth through adversity. Of this
teaching these men had little understanding, yet they departed
in their ships with the sure belief that the Mess;iah was the one
true and mighty God.
Strange were the thoughts of some of the ba,rbarians when they
first heard tidings of Christ. Yet they had more faith than many of
the learned Jews and Greeks. For, as I have told you, a man's
reason oft checketh and holdeth back the other part, which cometh
from the Spirit.
After a time the three b.rethren determined to seek out the evil
city of Paphos. It was many miles from Salamis, ~.nd was so much
the harlot among cities that it had been destroyed by the quaking
of the earth. For so great were the sins of the people that the Lord
could no longer bear the sight of this town. It was buildedonce
more, but it did not turn back from sinning. Once more did the
evil spirits come about the dwellers in it, and their religion was evil ;·
they worshipped a goddess who, it was said, had risen out of the
foaming waves. Beautiful was she, and they made statues of her,
and she had all that the eye of man lusteth after ; :she was beautiful
outwardly, yet drew to her all that was evil.
And at certain seasons naked men and women did come in
procession unto her, bearing her offerings, practising rites that were
foul in the sight of God and man. And Pau1 was stirred to wrath
when he perceived young men and women setting forth to worship
Venus; and he passed among them, smiting this way and that,
casting their offerings upon the ground, and crying out that the
vengeance of God would fall upon this evil town if they continued
thus to worship. He spake in haste, and did not in any manner
choose the ordering of his words.
The people, bethinking them of the earth that was at one time
riven, were afraid, perhaps thinking that here was no man, but a
messenger from the gods, who would give them warning of evil that
was coming. So they gathered about Paul and did him no ill,
hearkening unto his words ; and he spoke much with them, striving
to sow the seed of the Word among these evil men and women.
And Paul destroyed the J,ittle shapes of their goddess ; he did not
100 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
smite the idol, for he chose to work with caution among them,
seeking to win them unto Christ Jesus rather than to compel them to
come unto Him. And so no man laid a hand upon these three saints,
for they were feared by the people, and they spoke daily, wrestling
with the Evil One for the souls of these men and women.
They did not seek to shape a Church among them, but they
gathered certain of the Jews together, and these were gladdened by
the tidings of the Messiah.
One morning, when Paul was preaching to the multitude, they
opened out before Sergius Paulus, the Governor, who was passing
by that way and desired to hear these strangers speak. He was a
man of learning who had looked for God for many years, and he had
some knowledge of the happenings at Jerusalem, for the daughter of
the Roman who had been healed by Peter was of his kindred.
Now Paulus, as they called him, asked Barnabas or Paul to come
into his house and speak with him further concerning the doctrine
he preached. Here was a man of understanding, who could unravel
the teachings of the Master and weigh and measure them. And he
did perceive that they were in truth of the Spirit.
So Paul and he held speech with one another, entering into paths
along which Barnabas might not follow them. They spake of the
wisdom that was of Rome, they spake of the wise men of that city,
who, in times past had studied the mysteries of life and of death,
and had nothing to say concerning these that was of any real
import. Sergius had turned from them, and, now that he dwelt in
the East, he sought for the knowledge and the faith his own country
could not furnish.
He had been with one they called a mage, who had shown him
dark and evil wonders, and had been amazed by the power of the
Invisible as manifested through this man. Yet he was, in the mind
of Sergius, like a nut whose kernel hath rotted. He could not speak
of any doctrine, nor could he shape in words the everlasting wisdom.
And here was a strange man before him bearing that wisdom which
is like no other, which is the firstfruits of the tree of life. For many
hours Sergius sat at the feet of Paul, hearkening unto him earnestly
and seeking with eager words to draw fresh truths from this stranger.
And when Paul was at last wearied, and ceased from speaking,
the Governor cried out that he believed, and that he would be a
follower of the Master, Christ. Then did Paul promise to baptise him
on the morrow. And he gave him his blessing, and left his dwelling.
The sorcerer Elymas lived in Paphos. He was evil in all his
parts, and not like the sorcerer of Samaria, whose powers the
wicked or foolish spirits did play with, and thus make him at times
THE FIRST PARCHMENT IOI
their servants. But Elymas practised the abomilaations that have
ever been needful when man seeks to gain power through the
invocations of Satan.
In that evil city there were certain young men and young women
who were banded together and who wallowed in a slime whose
practices served the mage for his own purposes. He would draw
irom it that power that evokes the Evil One to do man's bidding
lor a space, so that he may seize upon his victim a.t a later time and
cause him to be slave, not master.
Now Elymas came in unto Sergius, and was greatly angered,
for he had been in the procession of young men and women that had
been scattered by Paul. And when he learned that the Governor
belieyed in the words ofthis new prophet he mock•ed, saying that he
was but one of the many Jews who sought proselytes among the
Gentiles.
" This man thou callest Paul cannot show thee any marvel. He
hath no wisdom. He may converse with the spirits. I will, if
thou callest him unto me, confound him with the power that is
within me. I will show him strange and fearful! things that will
bring dumbness upon him, so that he may ceasoe babbling of his
God. I will show him I am master."
Thus spoke Elymas. And Sergius, who had suffered through
those evil spirits he had summoned in past times, became fearful,
and was prepared to put from him the teachings of Paul.
It was therefore agreed that Sergius should lea.d the prophet to
the house of the sorcerer, and there the issue between them should
be determined, there would the hosts of dark and. light contend.
So Elymas prepared himself at sunset. In the early h0urs of the
day he had, through foul rites of which I will not write, gathered
about him a cloud of evil. And, when the sun was gone, he uttered
certain strange words and made strange sigris, then called he
Beelzebub to come out of the deeps unto him 1i'Vith his train of
ghastly beings, upon whom no man who hath not the protection of
the Most High may look and keep himself from being seized and
rent by them.
At the appointed time Sergius entered into the chamber where
stood the altar that was raised unto the prince of the air. Paul
followed the Governor, and was prepared for the contention with
the powers of Hell, for he had prayed that the Spiriit might be about
him in this hour, watching that no harm should oome unto him.
There was a green light in the chamber, and nigh unto the altar
there was dimness, which was like a veil of skin that did hide the
lurking evil.
102 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
And lo ! as Sergius sought to give greeting unto the mage, he
was silenced, and a cloth was given him and he was bidden to hide
his face and cover his head, for there were perils nigh unto him that
were not of earth.
And all the time of waiting Paul spake not, for he felt the fighting
in the air about him,and hissoul was wrestling with the foulness that
had been drawn up from Hell. The Governor withdrew the fringe
only of the cloth from his forehead, so that his eyes might perceive,
and he beheld such ghastliness that his whole body quaked. The
shapes of evil had come out from the dimness of the altar, and they
sought to entrap Paul, who stood there, silent and' unstirred. For
they could not break past the armour of the Spirit that was about
him.
And they, being conf<mnded, turned unto Sergius, and it came to
pass that he cast himself ·upon the ground, foaming at the mouth.
And he was possessed. The mage could not draw forth from him
this foul being, though he strove to master it with signs and words,
the sweat standing upon his brow, his body shaken as a ship by
the winds of a tempest~
Paul bent down and stroked the head of the stricken Governor,
saying : " Come out of him, and be go~e for aye from this man. In
the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, I bid thee go."
And the evil thing went out of the man on that instant, as
Saul had departed from the body of Paul at the command of
Barnabas,
Then this brother in Christ turned unto the sorcerer, saying unto
him : " Child of the Devil·! 0 foul one ! I do lay upon thee blind-
nPss for a season, not in vengeance, not in anger, but so.that thou
mayest be purged of the wickedness which is like unto a cloak of
filth about thee."
In this manner spoke Paul. A darkness which was not of earth
fell uponElymas, and a mighty cry of woe was wrung (rom him, and
from Beelzebub, who passed from the chamber and hastened from
the presence of the Holiest of Holies. And there was a white light
around Paul, that hung about hipllike a radiant shape without his
shape.
Sergius, who now was whole and in his right mind, cast himself
· before the Disciple and cried out : " I believe in thy Goci, master.
Take ~e hence. Save me from this evil.that hath rent me, and hath
nigh destroyed me and stolen·
.my life. I am evil in thy sight, but
spare me."
PaUl would not permit him to speak further, saying: "Thou art
ignorant, and not evil. Study the truth and gain wisdom, then wilt
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 103
thou be able to master the foulness begotten by Elymas the
Sorcerer."
And Sergius did perceive the withered eyes of this man, and he
knew in that hour that the Holy Spirit alone worketh marvels.
So he studied, and sought to learn all that was needful, that he
might be baptised and become a brother in Christ Jesus.
CHAPTER XXX
HEROD'S DEALINGS WITH THE SECOND JAMES AND WITH PETER :
HOW THE ONE WAS SLAIN AND THE OTHER ESCAPED
Now Herod would gladly appear as some great one in the eyes of
the people of J udrea, for he was a vain man and had little wit, but
only this pride in his race and in his name.
He gave ear to Manaen, speaking him soft, and giving him to
understand that he had but a few doubts concerning Christ, and,
were these removed, he would then perhaps countenance His
followers. So Manaen, in the innocence of his he.art, revealed
certain matters that should have been kept secret. :_ae told of the
community of saints, and he spoke of the Council of Twelve, of the
Three within that Twelve who were in very truth the children of
God, for they were at times filled with th~ Holy Spirit of the Most
High. And Herod learned that James had the ordering of the
community, and therefore was, in a manner, the first of the Twelve.
Then came Peter, the preacher and the shepherd ; and lastly there
was John the Dreamer, within whose soul was that glass everlasting
which images the truth o,f the Most High-.
Possessed of the knowledge he desired, Herod said .to Manaen
that he would consider this strange teaching, and perhaps summon
him 'once again, if it were needful.
When Herod was with no man, he bethought him that he might
now, if he seized upon these three men, find favour with the people.
And yet was that not all. He, Herod, believed that the light was
falling upon him,andthathewould take theplace ofthe Christ, whom
these three men followed, and who, to his mind, sought this place
for themselves. He would be the Messiah come to earth once.more.
But first must his soldiers lay hands on these three who sought to
be gods in the eyes of the ignorant people.
104 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
It was the foolish thought of his mean soul that they believed
themselves to be, in a manner, gods. So was he jealous.
There were two men known as James within the Church who
were as like one another as two flowers on the one stem. But the
second Jameswas known to few, and but lately come into the Church.
Yet was he zealous in the ministry, and, if he had not been puffed
up and proud, he would have been chosen as a Deacon.
Now it came to pass that the servants of Herod sought for the
chief of the Apostles nigh to the place of assembly, and they made
known to one who served at the door their need ; and he sought out
James who was not of the Twelve-who was the son, I am told, of
Ephraim. This man did learn that Herod desired to speak with him
concerning the teachings of Christ. And James was glad at heart.
· He would bring into the fold of the Church the Tetrarch, and thus
would he show the Saints that he was as great a teacher as any who
had been with the Master.
So did he bow himself low before Herod, and he chose honied
words that would show the Tetrarch that the Church held his
wisdom in high honour ; and this gladdened the heart of Herod.
He rose up and cast about himself his robe, so that he was like some
strange bird of many colours spreading out her wings in the sun-
shine of praise.
And Herod cried out : " Am I not in truth the Chosen One, the
Messiah ? Prate no more of your Christ, who was but a sorcerer
and a knave ; who was rightly hanged upon a tree ! ·Bow the knee
to the Son of God who stands before thee."
Then he spoke with great swiftness and eagerness of his desire
that the whole Church of Christ in Jerusalem should tum to him
as their Messiah, and should speak no more of Jesus of Nazareth,
the carpenter's son.
It was in the mind of this seeker after folly that he might win
James with words and promises, and cause him to declare unto his
brethren that he had found the truth that Herod was god.
If he would not yield in this.matter he would be done to death.
And James, having hearkened unto the Tetrarch, perceived that he
was beset with a great peril through his own vainglory ; yet was he
glad that he might suffer ; that he could render testimony unto
Christ, and, mayhap, lay down his life for his brother.
So he amazed this ruler by declaring his faith in the Lord Jesus
Christ, and by telling him that he had eaten of the bread of false-
hood that would tum to gravel in his mouth; and that he was the
worst of sinners, for he had sinned against the Holy Ghost by
declaring himself god.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 105
Herod was angered beyond measure, and would have slain him
on the instant, but he bethought himself of the people, and of the
favour he might gain in their eyes if he made a public show of the
dying of the chief of the Christian Church in Jerusalem. Thus it
was that the multitude was gathered together, and a crier made
known that the leader of the Twelve was to die, so that the curse
which the malefactor Christ had laid upon the people rillght be
removed. And this ma.ri, being asked if he was not James, the
leader of the saints, made answer that it was so, and that he had
been chosen as the chief among them.
Then the servants of Herod passed their swords through his body,
and the people made a great shout as he yielded up the ghost,
giVing his life for his brother in Christ Jesus.
There was much stir in Jerusalem, and the people rejoiced at the
death of James. "Now," said they, "the curse will no more be of
avail. Our hunger will be relieved and the sickness will go from
us. The Lord God of Israel was angry with His people because they
permitted these men to set up a false Messiah."
And Peter was sought by the servants of the Tetrarch. He was
preaching in the court of the Temple, so it was easy to seize him
and take him to prism~. He was brought before Herod, who still
yearned to be hailed as the Messiah. He almost entreated Peter
to call him god and fall dowri and worship him. Now Peter was
tightly bound. He could not stir his limbs ; only was his mouth
free to offer up praise unto Herod. But, on the instant that he
declared his faith in Christ,he was gagged and flung back into prison.
The people were pleased that he who was called the clrief of the
Apostles should so easily die. No sign or wonder had been wrought
by him. Was not his life-blood still marking the stones as with the
stain of wine ? So it was held that the Powers Invisible had deserted
the saints, and many assaulted them in the streets, and cast stones
at them, and beat them ; for were they not the cause of all the ill
that had come unto the people?
Such was the common talk, and Herod, who had sought in vain
for John the Dreamer, was content that there should be one living
sacrifice, ana that it should be made to his own godhead in the days
following Easter.
Itwas his desire that this death shouldbe a spectacle which should
stir up all the passions of the beast in the hearts of the people.
Then, when they were prepared through the exultation of perceiving
this sorcerer-as some called him-slain, Herod would come _
forth
in his robe of silver, and the crier, who had, it was said, the loudest
voice in all the known world, would declare him god.
ro6 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Of a surety the people would fall down and WQrship, and thus
would the desire of the Tetrarch's heart be accomplished.
On th'e eve before this festival of death, Peter lay in a dungeon
that was beneath the earth, and there were heavy doors that no
man could stir between him and the light of the stars. He was
hung with chains, for the tale of his opening of the doors of the prison
for the Twelve had. been noised abroad, and many guards were set
about the prison ; and two watched beside Peter, who had not in
his company the Twelve as aforetime.
Now I have spoken with you concerning this Body of Light,
which is what I call the Image of the Man which is invisible. And
it hath a covering that is in parts nigh unto the substance ye call
flesh ; yet is it invisible also. ·
These two be of the inner nature of man; and few may have
dealings with them in the manner in which Peter dealt with them
on that eve.
Now there be High Spirits who, as I have told you, may manifest
themselves and wreak marvels upon your earth if they can find a
shape which they may enter. Yet even more than this shape is
needful. There must be an element that hath substance also;
that ariseth out of the yearnings of men, and out of their faith.
All the saints in Jerusalem were praying without ceasing that the
H9.1y. Ghost should send His messenger and give Peter .freedom.
Now there was one great yearning arising from many, and so
mighty was it, it had this substance that draweth what is high to
what is within the thickness of the earth. For ye. are planted in
what seemeth to the spirits as walls of stones, and are thus divided
from them, and they can only through your aid come unto you.
The prayer of the saints drew the angel of the Lord unto Peter,
who lay in what seemed a sleep ; yet was it a swoon. He had cast
forth the Body of Light and its coverings ; so he lay as one dead,
and his guards marvelled at the deepness of the sleep of one who
was to die on the morrow.
There arose a mist about them, and there came a stillness about
these guards as if they were far from earth. They were not in
truth sleeping ; they were but stilled ; and about them was this
circle of mist that caused them to be the loneliest of living men.
Now there appeared a star; it spread until the whole of the
shape that had been cast from Peter w~ illumined, and so it had
the ·semblance of his bodily image, yet was there an angel within
that did cause it to draw nigh unto Peter. And this High Spirit
touched him, so that his other part should be roused and should
cause his body to stir.
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 107
The chains were cleft ; the guards made no movement. Peter
ar9se, and, because that element I have called the Image was not
within and without his mortal shape, he was still as one who sleepeth
and dreameth, and had no power over himself, the power being
manifested through the great prayer and through the Body of Light
that was now possessed by this High Spirit. The doors we.re
opened through it, and it passed before_Peter, beckoning him
onward, and he followed as ye may follow strange paths in your
sleeping hours.
When the light of the.stars was about him, he ro~ed himself a
little from his dream and was as one bemused, when the angel,
who now was fading slowly, passing out of its shell, passed before
him, and, at the ending of a street, vanished.
It spoke unto Peter before that passing, and he followed the
guidance of its words as a blind man follows the guidance of
another's hand. He knocked at a gate, a.ud knew not, in that
strange time of bewilderment, that it was the gate of a house wherein
the saints were gathered together praying for him with that sure
faith which requires not an answer, for it knows the answer.
A young girl who was named Rhoda heard the knocking, and
went to the door, and, after a space, it was opened. And Peter
went in, and there· was great exultation among the saints. Yet
Peter silenced them, entreating them to make sure that James was
surely hidden, so that Herod might not lay hands on him.
And Peter, before he departed from that house, sent word through
a young man to the brother. For James had declared that, if Peter
WP.re slain, he would come forth and give himself up to Herod.
And Peter changed his robe, and shaved his head and his beard,
darkening his cheeks so that no servant of Herod might know him,
and he bore with him a ~ign which had been obtained by one of the
saints. This, on being shown to the guard set at the gates.of
Jerusalem, caused them to let him pass, they believing he was one
in authority. ·
When he was once without Jerusalem it was easy for him to find.
a sure place of hiding. And so it came to pass that, before the sun
rose, the Twelve were scattered. They had found a sure place
of keeping.
roB THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
CHAPTER XXXI
THE DISCOMFITURE AND DEATH OF HEROD
Now will I spea!k of the sunrise and what was to have been the day
of glory for Herod.
There still was darkness over the earth when Herod stirred in
his sleep, and, opening his eyes, he heard what was like unto the
tread of an animal. It seemed but a fancy, and lie turned his mind
to the pleasing imagery of himself, in his robe of silver, when he
should appear unto the people after the slaying of Peter, and call
on them to worship him as a god.
Now, after a short space, he arose and summoned a slave, w.ho
bore lights into the chamber and the robe Herod was to wear at
the festival. For it was his fancy that he would look upon himself
thus arrayed and hear the flattery of his servants. And he was
well pleased when the light fell upon his robe, causing it to shine
and casting about him a fair radiance.
And lo ! as he gazed upon himself in the glass he perceived
writing in the colour of blood upon parchment resting upon the
table that was nigh him, and he read this writing, thinking it might
contain verses written in his honour by some Scribe. Upon it
there were set forth these words: "Woe unto thee, Herod. Enter
into the rock, hide thee in the dust before the glory of the Lord,
before the terror of His majesty. Fly into the desert places. Hide
thy faee, lest the wrath of God smite thee and give thee but thy
share with the worms." ·
Then was Herod like unto a madman, teari.Dg the parchment in
·many pieces, spitting on it, and then slaying the servant who had
guarded his chamber door with his sword. The blood of his victim
slaked his anger, and his chamberlain came unto him with many
flatteries, persuading him that all was well, and that he would
be bailed as one greater even than the Emperor of Rome, for he
was a god, and but mortal in his outer form, in the clay about
him.
Then, as the light was coming, Herod went into another chamber
and was decked with majesty, so that he might in very truth feel
the might of his kingship, as reflected in the glory of his robes.
And word was brought at that instant of certain men who were
speaking in the court of the Temple to the people. Now these were
of the kindred of James who bad been slain by the servants of the
Tetrarch. And they were declaring unto the multitude that James
THE FIRST PARCHMENT 109
was the son of Ephraim, that he was not one of the Twelve, and
that the Tetrarch had caused innocent blood to be shed.
Before Herod could seek further tidings concerning this strange
matter, one of the Elders, a member of the Sanhedrin, sought
speech with him, and declared that he had but lately come to
Jerusalem from Cresarea, and had learned that his nephew was
taken and done to death by the orders of the Tetrarch.
And this man proved to Herod that he spake the truth-that
James was known to be the son of Ephraim, but that he was like
James the chief of the Apostles, so had he been called one of the
Twelve, and many had been deceived. Now Herod could make
no answer to this charge, and was stirred once more to an anger
that caused him to sweat and shiver~ though it was as yet but early
in the day.
The guards who had been with Peter lay stiff and still until the
angel vanished, departing from the freed prisoner. Then these
men roused themselves up, and were much amazed to find the
broken chains and the empty dungeon. They summoned those
who stood without, and these, also being roused, did protest that
no man had passed their way, and that they had been wakeful and
watching all through that night. They had no feeling that they
had slept, yet could they find no sign of Peter-not even the marks
of his sandals upon the dust of the r0ad.
Time was passing, and the people were gathered for the slaying
of Peter, for the festival of death. So word was borne unto the
Tetrarch that Peter had been stolen away by night from the prison
by armed saints. And one told one tale, and a second another.
Herod could in no way learn the manner in which Peter had been
freed. And he declared that the guards were in leagtJ.e with him
and had loosed him from the prison. So were they to be the blood-
offering to the people.
Then a great clamour arose from without the palace-hungry
men and women calling, " Where is Peter ? What is this tale of
the angel that came unto him and released him from his bonds ?
What is the truth? Let us behold Peter. Give him unto us, if
this be but a lying rumour." And the guards were led forth, and
Blastus came unto the people in Herod's stead. For Herod was
lying upon the floor of his palace foaming like a maddened dog,
crying out and striking with his sword all who came nigh unto him.
And Blastus spake in this wise to the people : " The Christians
came by night unto the prison and overcame the guard and loosed
Peter from his bonds. Here are the men who in their cowardliness
surrendered this prisoner. And they will take his place. Their
IIO THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
blood shall be shed, so that the wrath of the Lord may be stayed,
so that He shall let the prosperous years come again unto His
people."
And the multitude cried out that now in truth a miracle had
been performed, and that perhaps God was on the side of the
Christians. So the people hastened from that place, seeking certain
of the Brethren who had come forth and who trusted the multitude,
believing that they would guard them when they learned of the
wonder of the night that was over.
The people hearkened unto them and believed, and they cried
out that God was fighting for the saints and that Herod was striving
~gainst God. At the door of his palace many assembled, demanding
bread, crying out, "Ye have given us a stone," demanding that
Herod should come forth and declare that he had been deceived,
and abase himself.
Then the guards dispersed the clamorous people and there was
much tumult, blood flowing and many tears shed. Some of the
people were slain and some wounded. And in this fashion was
Herod's day of glory ended.
For a short space he lay sick upon his·bed, and would speak to
no man save Blastus. At night, when the people were sleeping,
he departed privily from Jerusalem. Great was his anger and
his shame, yet he perceived that the people were bitter and
dark in their thoughts of him, so h~. being a coward, chose not
to remain in Jerusalem, but went into Cresarea, where he abode
for a space.
Always in his heart was there this unquenchable desire to be
called a god. Ifhe could but be praised and worshipped, then would
he iii truth be content. And the worm of his vanity gnawed at
his soul ceaselessly, so that he could gainno rest, night orday. And
he, who had been easy in his ruling, now practiSed many cruelties,
and he threatened the people of Tyre and Sidon with massacres and
with persecution if they did not pay him ~uch treasure, and
threatened to withhold all food from them, and, it being a time of
leanness, they became greatly distressed, and they bribed Blastus,
entreating him to appease the anger of the Tetrarch.
Now Blastus was cunning of speech, and he perceived the folly
in the Icing's heart. So he went unto him and spake him fair,
saying : " Master, there be many of the people who say that thou
art god, and that also is my belief. Now honour is to be rendered
unto Cresar, and there are to be games and a great festival in this
city for his sake. Thou shalt put on thy robe of silver and set
thyself upon the high seat in the theatre, and the people, looking
THE FIRST PARCHMENT III
upon thee and upon the wonder of thy countenance, shall forget
Cresar and hail thee as god."
And Herod, after many days of affliction, was pleased, exultingin
the thought that the proud name of Cresar should be abased and
his own exalted in the presence of the people.
So when the day of the festival was fully come, he cast about him
the robe of silver, which had not been worn by hlm since the day
he had foamed upon the ground in Jerusalem. And now of a truth
did he feel that he was the Messiah, the offspring of the Most High.
There were many Gentiles assembled in the theatre, scores of
Romans, and there were people from divers nations, speaking in
many tongues, waiting for the entry of Herod and his court, and
also the representative of Cresar who was to be humbled by the
sight of a god. Blastus had bribed some hundreds to greet Herod
with a holy name and to cast themselves upon the ground in worship.
So when the Tetrarch appeared before the assembly, raising his
hand to the people and taking his seat upon the throne, a great
shout arose : " Hail, Herod, hail ! 0 holy one ! we worship thee
and render thanks unto thee, for thou art god ! "
And all save the Gentiles cast themselves on their faces, crying
out, " In very truth he is a god I Behold the radiance that flasheth
about him I " ·
And many who had not been bribed believed he was some Holy-
One because of the shouting, and because the sun's rays caused the
robes of Herod to shine and give forth light. And, as these men
uttered this monstrous blasphemy, Herod was smitten by the Most
High. His whole body quaked and changed in colour and his face
turned to a purple hue, and he fell backwards into the arms of
Blastus, yielding up the ghost.
This slaying of Herod was a sign for all the generations, showing
what is the erid that cometh to a man who raiseth up his own image
and setteth it as the idol in his heart.
In the death of Herod men may read the signs of their own
mortality ; so shall they not be puffed up or proud, knowing that
their body returneth unto dust, and the Shape of Light, or what
some have called the angel, entereth into the peace of a new life,
which may endureas long as the earth endureth, but which leadeth,
if they be pure in spirit, at a later time, into the presence of God.
PSYCHIC PRESS PUBLICATIONS
ARTHUR FINDLAY'S FAMOUS TRILOGY
ON THE EDGE OF THE ETHERIC
Splritualism•s best seller. Over 40,000 copies sold. 3s. 6d.
THE ROCK OF TRUTH
A challenge to Orthodoxy.
THE UNFOLDING UNIVERSE
Ss. Od.
The evolution of man's conception of his place In nature.
7s. 6d.
INDEX TO
ARTHUR FINDLAY'S TRILOGY
By A. E. NEALE. Contains 15,630 references. ls. 6d.
THE TORCH OF KNOWLEDGE
By ARTHUR FINDLAY. A novel woven around psychic facts.
Ss. Od.
THEY SHALL BE COMFORTED
By MAURICE BARBANELL. This book sets out very simply
the case for Spiritualism. ls. 6d.
THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND
By MAURICE BARBANELL. Survival proved by voices of
the "dead". ls. 6d.
PARISH THE HEALER
By MAURICE BARBANELL. Story of the world's greatest
healer today. ls. 6d.
AN INSPIRATIONAL BIRTHDAY BOOK
By 'BRENDA'. An excellent gift book with philosophical
extracts for each day of the year. Ss. Od.
These books can be obtained from Psychic Press Ltd., 144,
High Holborn, London, W .C.I. The following amounts for
postage should be added :-Up to 3s. 6d.... 3d. Up to
lOs.... 6d.
PSYCHIC PRESS PUBLICATIONS
ADVENTURES WITH INSPIRATION
By HANNEN SWAFFER. Famous people Interpret Inspiration.
ls. 6d.
WHEN MEN TALK TRUTH
By HANNEN SWAFFER. Fiction based on psychic facts.
ls. 6d.
LIGHT IN OUR DARKNESS
By W. S. MONTGOMERY SMITH and E. M. TAYLOR.
Spirit communications from a "dead" wife. ls. 6d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE OLD TESTAMENT
By The Rev. G. MAURICE ELLIOTT. A frank, modern parson
explains biblical "miracles". ls. 6d.
THE PSYCHIC LIFE OF JESUS
By The Rev. G. MAURICE ELLIOTT. Throws a new light
on the wonders described in the New Testament. Ss.
TEACHINGS OF SILVER BIRCH
EDITED by A. W. AUSTEN. The spirit world's philosophy as
presented by the famous spirit guide of Hannen
Swaffers home circle. Ss.
SPIRITUAL SONGS
By Mrs. ST. CLAIR STOBART. A hymn-book freed from
theology.
Without music, Is. Od. With music. 2s. 6d.
MATERIALISATIONS
AND THE CASE OF CLIVE-HOLMES
By HARRY BODDINGTON. The laws behind psychic
phenomena and a medium's martyrdom. ls. 6d.
WHAT MEDIUMSHIP IS
By HORACE LEAF. World-famous medium tells hoV( t11 de-
velop psychic powers. 3s. 6d.
These books can be obtained from Psychic Press Ltd., 144,
High Holborn, London, W.C.I. The following amounts for
postage should be added :-Up to 3s. 6d.... 3d. Up to
lOs...• 6d.
•
PSYCHIC PRESS BOOKLETS
I. THE HUMAN AURA AND HOW TO
SEE IT
Price 7d. .post free
l. PSYCHIC HEALING
Price Is. Id. post free
3. TRANCE STATES
Price Is. Id. post free
The Set of Three-ls. 6d. post free
All by HARRY BODDINGTON
4. THE PHILOSOPHY OF
SPIRITUALISM
By W. H. EVANS Price Is. ld. post free
5. THE PRAYER BOOK X-RAYEO
By MRS. ST. CLAIR STOBART Price 3~d. post free
The Set of five-3s. 6d. post free
Obtainable from-
PSYCHIC PRESS LTD., 144 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON,
W.C.I
THE SCRIPTS OF
CLEOPHAS
A Reconstruction of Primitive Christian Documents
Recorded by
GERALDINE CUMMINS
With a Prefatory Note by john Lamond, D.D.
PART II
Special Edition for
THE PSYCHIC BOOK CLUB
144 High Holborn, London, W.C.I
J'rr~t puhli)IUil Ftl)ruaty lQlR
~umul t:.JrtHm ,\ '&1 tmber ••J1H
J"hr11l '"'''""' jul) tyjb
PRINTED IN
CREAT BRITAIN
BY CILBT. WHITEHEAD
AND CO., LIMITED,
NEW ELTHAM, S.E.9.
THE SECOND PARCHMENT
He
THE SECOND PARCHMENT
CHAPTER I
THE ORDEAL OF BARNABAS AND MARK IN THE TEMPLE OF THE MAGI
I WOULD give you tidings concerning Paphos and of the strange evil
that was practised in that city, fair to the eye but foul to the soul.
It was a spot accursed. And once in a far time God had smitten
it and destroyed it by causing the earth to cast it forth into the sea.
Then was it builded again by a Roman, because the earth and the
sea were fair and it was in all things pleasing to the eye of man.
In the time when Barnabas, Paul, and Mark made their descent
into this abode of evil, many false gods were worshipped there ;
but one was chosen from amongst all others. I speak of Aphrodite :
the image of the Evil One as man sees him in the shape of a woman.
In silver, in gold, the face of this goddess was graven. The young
men carried her upon their breasts as a jewel, and many strange and
secret sins were committed in her name.
So it came to pass that the Holy Spirit caused Paul and Barnabas
and others of their company to seek out this harlot among the
cities of the earth and strive with her, that she might receive the
grace of God and the teaching of the Master Christ.
I have spoken of Elymas the Sorcerer. He was but one of many.
For in Paphos there were gathered together the masters and their
adepts, who had received from Egypt, from Chaldea, and the East
the knowledge that giveth man power to employ the evil spirits
and the dark desires of men.
Now these Magi dwelt in a certain street in Paphos, and went
little abroad. But they sought from among the people of the town
certain youths, whom they instructed in their art ; and Elymas
was one of these. He had powers beyond the ordinary, and was
not content to live among the Magi. With their consent he sought
out the Proconsul and served him ; aiding him in divers ways, he
also strove with subtle advice to draw from him treasure and power.
Elymas was but the tool of those that were greater in wisdom
us
II6 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
and greater also in sin. These had harmed the people by their
practices and through the invisible evil they had thus drawn to the
city. It was not through open example or through display that
they had made the town the mart of wickedness.
Therefore the Lord had appointed Paul as minister unto Paphos,
and there was a purpose in the miracle of darkness which he had
cast about Elymas. It was a sign to the men of evil, showing them
that they were not to triumph and domina•.e the people through
Sergius Paulus, as had been their desire.
The tale of the blinding of the sorcerer soon spread among the
people ; and the multitudes, hearing that their Governor believed
in the teaching of Paul, gathered about him, hailing him as master ;
and some, at his bidding, cast from them the little images of the
goddess, and besought the Disciples to show them the truth and
the light.
So it came to pass that the hosts of evil were roused by the destruc-
tion of the image of their corruption, and gave secret counsel to
the masters. It was determined by them that they shoulC..tempt
the servants of the Lord in divers strange and subtle ways.
They feared Paul, for he had shown that he could read the minds
of men, and he had shown the might of the spirit in his victoryover
the sorcerer. They said : " He is a greater master than we are ;
he hath secret ways of calling up the devils, and we may not gainsay
him. But we will turn the people from him by setting snares for
those who are his followers." So their hirelings went by night and
took with them Barnabas and Mark, pretending that their ministra-
tion was needed by the sick without the town.
Now, within a temple of the goddess, these evil men celebrated
their faith in her presence at night-time, when the gates of the
temple were closed. There were chambers beneath the place of
worship, beneath the earth. To these Barnabas and Mark were
led, where the vengeance the masters dared not wreak on Paul had
been prepared for them. Barnabas and the young man Mark
were put in bonds; and they who were Jews were compelled to
witness sacrifices of fiesh made unto idols, and meat, forbidden by
the Jewish law, was thrust upon them. The blood of unclean
beasts was given them to drink, and they were cast upon the steps
of the altar and compelled to bow themselves before the goddess.
Their tormentors did not weary of evildoing. Having mocked
and spat upon the Brethren, they raised them up and set them at
a board-in their bonds,without power to move their limbs. Crowns
were set upon their heads, and women came tempting them, and
the masters made mock of them, calling to them to adjure their
THE SECOND PARCHMENT II7
propl:tet, and to feast and dance with these women. For, if they
would not, if they held fast to their faith, then would their eyes be
tom from them, and they would be tormented till they yielded up
the ghost. They were given the choice of denying their Lord or
dying for Him after bitter anguish. They would not yield, and
when their lips were freed they sought but to bear testimony unto
the Lord, and to preach His word even in that temple of abomina-
tions. Mark, being young and of a weakly frame, was the first
tormented, and Barnabas was a witness of the suffering of the one
among the Disciples he loved even more than Paul. The sweat of
anguish was his also, though his body was still whole. Then he
cried unto the Lord, for he saw that Mark was failing, and that
his soul might yield to the grievous torment of the flesh. So great
was the might of his prayer and his crying that all those in the
hall-the masters and their women and their youths- were hushed
and stilled. And Mark, whose soul was about to deny our Lord
J esus, repented, and, when his lips were freed, did join in the prayer
of Barnabas.
Then were these two bound, and they were told that they should
no more look upon the light of day, for their eyes would be pierced
and they. would be cast from the temple of the goiidess unto the
people, as a sign that her might was greater than that of the Messiah.
And lo! as the youths gathered about the Brethren, the earth
shook, and the floor of the temple was riven, the pillars were smitten
asunder, and darkness fell upon the people. In that night there
was naught but the crying of stricken men and the weeping and
wailing of women. Those who were not slain fled from the temple.
Barnabas and Mark remained, not stirring, praying for the sins of
these people, and thanking God for the miracle that had been
wrought through the grace of the Holy Spirit.
CHAPTER II
THE DARK HOUR OF MARK AND THE MIRACULOUS HEALING OF ELYMAS
WHEN the dawn broke, Barnabas and Mark were the only watchers
in the temple, and they saw about them the broken pillars and
the altar that was riven asunder.
Nigh to it the goddess lay upon her face. And in that cold hour
Mark was stricken with the fear of the evil that was overpast. He
II8 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
strove to join in prayer with Barnabas, but no words would come ;
and he was shaken as the leaf is shaken by the wind. The blood
gushed from the wounds in his body ; for his flesh had been tom
with sharp weapons by the youths during the second watch of the
night, before the Lord had sent the sign of His presence in answer
to the prayer of Barnabas.
And the elder drew the younger to him, bearing him from the
temple to the house of Merab, a devout woman and a sister in
Christ. There was Mark tended, and sweet ointments laid upon
his wounds. And Barnabas returned unto the temple. And great
was the wonder in his soul ; for no dwelling in Paphos had been
smitten. Only about the temple was the earth rent and mighty
rocks had been cast up from the depths beneath.
There Barnabas, in the lonely hours of the dawn, wrestled with
the invisible evil that was about that sanctuary of Satan. He cried
unto the Lord, entreating him to have mercy on all the souls in
Paphos, and to drive from it the evil spirits that had been summoned
by the Magi, and were in hosts about that city, ever tempting the
generations of men with new and strange pleasures, showing unto
them the fruits of evil and the foul dreaming of the Prince of
the Air.
Thus in prayer did Barnabas seek to save the soul of a whole
people. And, when at last he ceased, his body worn, his whole
being preyed upon by the enemies about him, he perceived upon
the face of the sea, where it lay smooth and still nigh the shore,
the image of a future time, and saw that he had won and lost-
for such is ever the tale of man's strivings after the light.
For many years to come would men worship the Evil One in
Paphos ; yet would many turn from them and be baptised into the
faith of our Lord Christ. No miracle of healing would be wrought
in the minds of the people. They would worship God and praise
Him and then there would be backsliding and they would turn
again to the old foul rites and the practice of strange evil.
And Barnabas went from the Temple heavy of heart, for he had
believed that, after this wondrous sign, all men in that island would
believe in the truth and the light. But when he had come to the
city he perceived a multitude that was gathered in the market-
place, making no loud talk, the men and women whispering ope to
another.
And they looked upon Barnabas and cast themselves on their
faces, crying out, " Behold the worker of wonders I " " Behold
the hero that hath arisen from the sea ! " And they would
have prayed unto him. But he entreated them to hold their
THE SECOND PARCHMENT
peace, telling them that he was but a servant of the one true
God, who had smitten the earth so that men in Paphos might
believe.
And all cried out that they believed, for fear was in every heart.
And Barnabas, gaining new strength through the visitation of the
Spirit, taught the people ; speaking of John, who came as a witness
to Christ, and speaking also of the resurrection of the body, and of
the appearing of Jesus after His burial in the tomb.
On that day hundreds believed and were baptised in Paphos,
and Elders were appointed. All the common people praised God,
whose Word had been borne to them through Paul and through
Barnabas. And some among them called Barnabas the Shaker
of the Earth.
And years after he had left them, some who had heard of
him as youths made an image of this brother, and, calling it a
god, worshipped it, praying to it when the earth was dry and the
fruits of the ground were scorched from want of rain, or when the
earth again menaced to open at their feet.
In secret they worshipped him whom they called The Shaker of
the Earth. But these worshippers were ignorant men. And one
of the Brethren appointed to the charge of the Church at Paphos
learned of this strange belief, and went among these people, destroy-
ing the image of Barnabas, which was not in his likeness, and the
vain imagining of these men who walked in darkness.
Now Paul and his company abode many days in Paphos and
they were well served by the Proconsul ; and the Jews who abode
there made no clamour against them, for they feared Paul. And
so the Church prospered in those first days. And it was determined
that they should go unto Perga, in Pamphylia, where the Word of
the Lord had not yet been spoken.
Mark lay sick of a fever that came to him through the evil that
had corrupted his wounds after those hours of torment in the
temple. In those days, when his body was ailing, his mind was
caught as a bird within the net of the fowler. This net was the
foul images cast forth by the Magi in their wrath against the
Brethren. These might not pierce the veil that guardeth a whole
man ; but they entered within the mind of this youth who was
subject to the humours of his feeble body. So it came to pass that
the images of lust abode with him in the darkness of his sickness.
They were monstrous as the cruelty of the ancients, and they
gathered about the nephew of Barnabas, tormenting him so that
he cried out that he was possessed by devils and that God had
forgotten him. And the company of the Brethren prayed for him.
I20 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
It was his time of trial, and, therefore, the Spirit came not to give
him ease or to help him to endure.
For there are days in each man's life when, like Christ in the
wilderness, he standeth alone ; and it seems to him in that dark
hour that God has turned His face from him and given him up to
Satan and his hirelings.
Barnabas believed that Mark would pass thus from his body,
crying out with foul names upon his lips in his dying. He knew
not that Mark had been chosen for a special purpose, and that the
light of his soul was but dimmed for a short space by these shapes
of evil.
When the fever had abated, his spirit returnedJ and once more
gained governance over his body, and it, being young, became
whole, so that to the Brethren and to Paul he seemed ready once
more for his appointed work, which was the baptising of those who
believed in the Word that was preached to them by the two Elders.
Mark feared the return of the evil that had beset him, and he
sought out certain of the Brethren, counselling them to turn back
upon the road and speaking of the needs of the Church at Jerusalem.
And they went unto Paul and prayed him to let them go, as Mark
was minded.
Having that sight that pierceth the inner man, Paul perceived
that these Brethren were fulfilling the desire of Mark. So he spoke
to them sternly, saying, "Ye seek to deceive me. Ye speak of the
sore needs of the Disciples at Jerusalem, and ye would make it the
cause of our turning back from the wilderness and from the places
where God is not yet known. Oh, ye hypocrites ! ye seek to please
this young man whom ye love."
And they. cast down their eyes, saying, "This is true. Mark
desireth us to urge thee to go no farther, and there is reason on his
side ; but we will not desert thee if thy choice is to continue the
spreading of the light among the Gentiles." And they were all
afraid of Paul, and agreed to follow him, for the might of his spirit
was great in those violent days at Paphos, where he ceased not
from teaching and preaching.
So these younger Brethren spake unto Mark saying that it was
not the will of the Spirit that they should go unto Jerusalem. And
for a time Mark held his peace, yet he was beset by fears that came
again to him in the night-time in the shapes that had visited him
when he lay nigh unto death. For him there was no ease, only the
sore fret of a mind that dreadeth the loneliness of the dark when
Hell openeth out of it.
Now Paul and Barnabas took counsel one with another, and they
THE SECOND PARCHMENT I2I
determined they would cast loose from Paphos and go unto Perga.
And so, in the mart of that city, nigh unto the temple where the
goddess was no longer worshipped, he gave unto the people his last
prayers for the Church and his last exh~rtation.
The temple of the Evil One was empty in that hour, and all the
people came together to hear this worker of wonders and to gaze
upon his brother, whom they had named the Shaker of the Earth.
And one of the Magi stood up and questioned Paul, and strove to
dispute with him, and with mockery to cast derision upon his
teachings, so that the people would tum again to sin and seek
laughter and feasting and the strange evil of those days. But Paul
rebuked him, saying laughter that is foul is the enemy of God.
Then the master contended with him concerning the powers of
the Holy Spirit, and boasted that he, the wise one, could work
miracles which the followers of the God of Judrea could not imagine
or in any way cause to come to pass. At that instant the crowd
broke before a man who stumbled and besought them to lead him
to the High Priest of the God of J udrea. This was Elymas who
saw but night about him, and feared with all his soul the power
that had smitten him.
Paul cast his eyes upon him and bade those about him to lead
the stricken one to the master ; for he, being a worker of mighty
miracles, would surely heal the blind man and make him whole once
more in the sight of all the people.
And the master sought to call up the demons, whispering words,
making signs, and anointing the face of Elymas ; but the blind man,
raising his head, cried out, II This is not the prophet. I see not.
Ye have deceived me, yemen of Paphos. Lead me unto the worker
of wonders, and peradventure he will have compassion and grant
me the sight of my eyes."
Then the master rent his clothes and called yet again upon his
demons, and all the crowd was hushed, watching for the miracle
that should come out of this fury ; but naught came of it. And
yet again Elymas besought Paul to have compassion on one who
was ignorant, for he knew only evil and the foul secrets of the
ancients. So it came to pass that the Spirit moved Paul to lay his
fingers upon the eyes of this fool. And lo ! as the Disciple exhorted
him to see, not only with the eyes of the flesh, but with the eyes of
the Spirit, he cast back his head, and, turning him about, cried unto
the people: II Behold! A cloud of light l Behold, it is day! The
mist passes ! I see you, my brothers ! I am whole, and I believe
in the God that this man worships and in Christ, His Son, for in
my darkness the truth was given unto me."
I22 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
CHAPTER III
DISSENSION LEADS TO THE CAPTURE OF PAUL AND HIS COMPANY BY
ROBBERS: THEY ARE SET AT LIBERTY
THROUGH the raising up of Beelzebub by the Magi the people were
once more led astray, and gave themselves over to the abomination
of these evil men. And these sought out the Priests of the old
worship, and showed them how they might win the people back to
evil through the lusts of the body, while they, the Magi, drew once
more about the city the hosts of spirits that served them; and these
spirits entered into the minds of the people, so that they waxed
gross in their desires and turned away from Christ.
Yet there was always a community of saints in that town, and
no foul image cast at them by the Magi might enter within their
radiant bodies and wrestle with the Spirit for mastery.
I would write now of Mark and of the dispute that arose between
him and Paul.
This was caused by the subtlety of the Evil One who served the
Magi. He drew about Mark strange shapes of fear, making, as I
have told you, a terror of the night hours for him. And Paul was
angered with his brother because of the weakness of his flesh and
because he, who dreaded the perils that lay before them in Perga,
sought to turn the Brethren back upon the road.
When the company were nigh to Perga, Paul rebuked him for the
discontent he had bred in the hearts of his Disciples, and Mark made
answer, saying: "We of Judrea are of the chosen race. It is not
meet that we should give all our lives and our labours to the Gentiles,
who know naught of God. There are many of our own people who
have not heard the Word. Let us go up to Jerusalem and minister
unto them."
And Paul answered him saying: "Thou liest, brother, unto
thyself, as well as unto me. Thou art caught in the evil imaginings
of these sorcerers. Thou hast surrendered thyself to Beelzebub."
In truth Paul spoke in haste, not measuring his words, nor
reckoning with the frailty of this youth, who was still worn and
spent because of the torments he had suffered in the temple.
At that hour Perga was nigh and they could perceive the sea and
the ships. And Mark declared unto the Brethren that he would
return unto Jerusalem, to the chosen people of Jehovah.
And he called on the young men to follow him and to seek the
Gentiles no more. But not one among them stirred. And Mark
THE SECOND PARCHMENT 123
went from out the midst of them and sought his mule to bear him
to the sea.
This dispute caused dissension among the Brethren. And it
came to pass that some among them would not be gainsaid by
their elders, and determined to preach the Word as they were
minded, seeking thus to be first when they were but fitted to be last.
All this had been brought about by the masters of evil, who now
were far from them, yet who could cleave the spaces of the sea and
come before them arrayed in the images of the mind.
But not so in the heart of Paul. After the first stirring of anger
against Mark he surrendered no more to these messengers of evil,
but was calm, like the waters of a pool in the still hour of dawn.
Not with upbraidings but with earnest exhortation he sought to
make the Brethren once more work in unison, warning them that
punishment would fall upon them if they yielded to their passions
and to their jealousy, for they even questioned the leadership of
Barnabas and Paul. ·
And the two Elders, having taken counsel with one another,
judged it not seemly to show themselves in Perga in this wise,
bearing messages of peace and goodwill, when goodwill reigned not
among those who would spread the tidings of our Lord Christ.
Now certain of the Brethren who would not be guided desired to
go unto Antioch. This was through stubbornness and rage,because
they knew that Paul desired to remain in Perga, lighting there the
torch of truth.
They were, therefore, greatly amazed when he agreed with them,
saying: "I shall, as ye will it, accompany you unto Antioch, for
here we may not be few, if we are to teach and preach. Ye are
young and foolish as the ass who strayeth from the path into the
wilderness and is there beset by wild beasts. Ye will rue this
journey, but let ye not be stayed by me. I will go with you, so
that I may call upon the Spirit when ye are in need."
And the young men heeded him not, for they believed in the
wisdom of their youth, and they set forth, leaving no man of their
company behind them.
It came to pass that when night descended upon them they were
far from men and from any shelter. They lay upon the side of the
mountain and sought rest in the hollow of the mighty rocks. This
country was named Pisidia, and it was lonely and empty of honest
men. Only the wild beasts and those who had been banished from
the towns lived in such bare land.
Robbers, who dwelt in the caves among these hills, came upon
the Brethren as these slept. Thinking them to be merchants, they
I24 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
slew some and put the others in bonds, bearing them to the caves
in the hills, where no man might venture if he would save his body
alive. The robbers had often seized those who had great possessions,
and it was their custom to demand sums of gold for their prisoners.
Now, some of the young men were wounded and others lay dead
in the hollow of the rocks. Those that remained whole were fearful
and sorrowful, all their vainglory gone from them. They desired no
more to be first, and were glad to listen to the words of Paul and
Barnabas and again to call these two master.
The captain of this band of robbers was of Antioch, and he
questioned the leaders of this merchant company, as he deemed
them, threatening that, if their kin did not pay tribute for them,
he would have them bound by the arms and hung above fires in the
caves until they were prepared to surrender up their moneys.
And in that time of peril Paul spoke boldly unto these men,
saying : " We have no moneys, neither have we kith nor kin.
Naught do we possess of earthly riches. We are but pilgrims
bearing with us the tidings of the coming of the Messiah, of the
coming of God to earth."
So mighty was the power of Paul when the Spirit possessed him
that these wild men let their fires fall to ashes, and hearkened unto
him hour after hour, only breaking in upon his words with
questions when their understanding failed them.
?aul spoke of the God of Judrea and of His prophets who had
spoken of the coming of Christ ; then of his teaching, the rendering
of love one to another, and the presenting of the other cheek when
one had been smitten.
The captain of the robbers made great mock of this, declaring
that no prophet would prevail upon him to yield to the smiter.
Yet was he strangely stirred at the tale of the rising from the tomb
of the Master Christ, and at his teachings among the publicans and
sinners, the poor and the outcast. And he saw that, of a truth,
these men were not like the wanton pagan priests, andsought not the
pleasures of the world, but were the friends of the outlaws, and their
God had powP.r thtough them to forgive evil, and, it might be, pour
down blessings on those that respected His chosen.
So the robbers, perceiving that these Brethren were in rags and
had no sign of wealth upon them, determined, for the sake of Paul
and Barnabas, to loose them and all their company.
" It is our custom to ask a price from those that we bear to the
caves," he said unto Paul. "From some we have obtained naught
save the joy of witnessing their torment in the fire; from others we
have received much gold. But from you we ask neither gold nor
THE SECOND PARCHMENT 125
silver ; we ask for the blessing of your God, and that ye will beseech
Him to keep for us a fair place in this life to come of which ye speak.
For here have we suffered; from the fair cities have we been cast
out, and our lot is to dwell but secretly at times in the low streets
of towns, or to suffer hardshir upon ti1ese mountains. Obtain for
us, if ye will, a share in that Kingdom of Heaven of which ye speak
and we will let you and your people go."
Then Paul drew the captain apart, and all that night he wrestled
with him for the possession of his soul, striving to cast light upon
his darkness and to show him there could only be a place found for
him if he truly repented and turned from evildoing.
And the captain was much moved, and cried out that he would
give up all and follow Paul, he would suffer persecution with him
and testify unto the Master. But, when day was come, this wild
man looked out upon the hills, and he bethought him of the prison
and the stripes that would be his at Antioch for past evil deeds, if
he went with Paul and sought to serve him. And desire in his heart
grew cold, his courage failing him, for he knew his own weakness,
and that he could not give up his wild life and the joys of its evil
ways.
So, having withdrawn himself for a short space, he bade the
robbers cut the thongs that bound the prisoner, and he addressed
himself unto Paul, saying, " I may not go with thee. Tempt me
no more with thy God. who, though He be true, would lead me to a
death of anguish. I cannot give thee what thou askest of me.
Yet thou shalt be the first man who hath entered these caves from
whom I shall ask no price. Go in peace with thy Brethren, but
come not again to scald my heart with thy tales of this greatprophet;
for I cannot surrender unto Him this free life of mine, nor may I
submit to His yoke. Leave me to my evil ways."
And Paul wept for him, and blessed him, bidding him in his
dying to pray unto Christ; for Paul perceived that, when the last
quarter of the moon was passed, this man would be taken and
would die in torment. So they parted one from the other, and
went forward into the mountains, a great silence about them, Paul
praying for this sinner who had not repented, and would mayhap
be lost to the fold.
126 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
CHAPTER IV
THE VISION OF THE YOUTH WHO WATCHED PAUL IN PRAYER ON THE
HILL ABOVE ANTIOCH
Now some of the Brethren had suffered hurt, and they were sick
and fevered, so that the company must needs tarry by the way,
days and nights, striving to travel but a little distance, and then
staying their course, so that ease might be f3iven to these young men.
It came to pass that their food failed them, and they must needs
nourish themselves with herbs and berries, and drink from the
springs in the hills. And some among them besought Paul and
Barnabas to leave those who had been smitten by the robbers,
and with all haste to seek out Antioch, where the field was ripe for
the harvest. In these lonely mountains were wild beasts, and, if
they tarried thus and were weakened by hunger, they might be
assailed and devoured, for the Brethren were not skilful hunters,
but men of peace and of the tovrns.
And Paul prayed unto the Lord that faith might be given to His
Disciples, and after the prayer was ended he spoke with them,
saying that he would not desert even the most froward among
them, nor would he leave them thus to the beasts in the wilderness.
Their faith being feeble, they might be devoured. But, while their
shepherds abode with them, they need fear neither hunger nor
thirst, nor fevers, nor the evil of living creatures. The fire of the
Lord was about them each night as they slept, and no evil thing
might break through it. No member of that band laid eyes upon
that flame of which he spoke, yet they were comforted by it, and.
slept as if in truth they were within the fold.
On the eve of the Sabbath the Brethren came unto a high hill.
And lo ! at the feet of it lay tlie white town of Antioch, and it was
fair in their eyes, and like the jewels in a crown, as the sun bade it
farewell, passing slowly into the dimness of the night.
Then some made fires, and others sought to tend the sick, and
Paul drew apart, so that he might commune with the Spirit to
obtain guidance for the feet of his children on the morrow. There
was silence and stillness about Paul as he knelt and prayed, and the
youth who served him watched that no one might come nigh unto
him in this hour of the Spirit.
And it came to pass that the eyes of the youth waxed heavy,
while the eyes within opened unto that other day which is near you
and about you, though ye cannot per~eive it because of your earthly
THE SECOND PARCHMENT I27
sight. And this youth slept not ; his mind was swift as the eagle in
those hills, and it perceived that Paul rose up in the company of
Barnabas, turning unto the bright clear light of tlhe sun. For all
was changed ; the dimness gone from among those rocks, and Paul
was still but a dark figure kneeling, and yet again was he with his
face turned to this clear light-two men, one in tbte shadow of the
evening, the other in the whiteness of the morning.
And as he who stood in that other and clearer day praised God
for His mercies, there came a lion out of the rocks and leaped at
him, and for a space these two wrestled with one another, and the
youth might not aid him, for he was without that c:lear day, and he
could not stir in any limb.
And lo ! as Paul strove with the lion, Barnabas laid hands upon
it, and together these two cast the beast from them, dealing it such
hurt that it fled into the wastes and was no more seen by the watcher.
But there was no peace for Paul. As he opened yet again his
mouth in praise, there came to him the fiery flyiing serpent that
lurketh in the hot sands, that dealeth out death to man.
This time was Paul sorely pressed, for the creat\llre had power to
cast at him his foul poison, and was mighty in the strength of his
winding body, which menaced destruction, and, as the struggle
continued, it seemed to crush Barnabas, who was close to Paul in
this strange hour.
Yet again did these two triumph, casting the fie1ry flying serpent
from them. And, when it had hidden among the rocks, there was
once more peace, and, for the third time, Paul sought to praise God
and give thanks unto him.
And lo ! there rose from out the ground a dark creeping thing that
struck at the heels of the Brethren, and it was a viper that had lain
in the grass, hidden from the sight of the two. It pierced, and as
it struck and its poison entered into those on whom it preyed,
the clearness of that bright day faded, darkness n.ot like unto any
night on earth fell upon that wasteland.
The youth heard the voice of Paul, and he perceived his brother
still praying and communing with the Spirit. Blllt Barnabas was
not there, nor was there any sign of that other Pautl who had stood
in the clearness of the day. The moon shone upon the mountain,
casting upon it shadow and light. And lo I the eyes of the youth's
body saw once more, and those within were closed, again caught in
the slumber of the inner man.
Then Paul rose up and gave greeting tothe youth. He perceived
that his watcher had something of strange import to tell him. And
in that hour knowledge of this vision was given unto this young man,
128 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
and he told Paul of all that he had witnessed, and of the interpre-
tation of these three foul creatures that had fought with him.
"The lion, the fiery flying serpent, and the viper are three men
of good report thou shalt meet in Antioch, and they will speak thee
fair. Yet will they seek to do thee hurt wh1en they learn that thou
bearest tidings of the Messiah to all men and choosest not from
among them, but seekest out the humblest and those of small
repute.
" And these three will strive to drive thee forth from Antioch.
Two wilt thou triumph over, but the third shall by secret ways
prevail. This have I seen, and this I do know." The youth
besought Paul to turn his face away from Antioch, and go unto
another city where the word of Christ would prevail.
And Paul made answer, " It is but meet that we should fail in
Antioch, for so the Spirit will have it, that w1e may learn humbleness
of heart, that we may learn to dwell in untison. If I be expelled
from Antioch, I shall rejoice, knowing that this humiliation is sent
unto us so that we may be tried. The triiumph of evil, brother,
leadeth unto the victory of the Spirit, as surely as the hanging of the
Master Christ upon the tree did lead unto the glory of His resurrec-
tion. Speak of what thou hast seen to no man, for this is a true
sign, and the Brethren may not know of it, for they are still weak
in spirit and somewhat far from the grace of God."
Then Paul gave the youth his blessing, a.nd bade him sleep and
forget what he had seen in that other clearer day. For the Word
of the Lord must be accomplished and aUl fulfilled as He spake
through His prophets in the olden times.
CHAPTER V
THE HOSTILE ELDERS OF ANTIOCH: PAUL AND BARNABAS PREACH IN
THE SYNAGOGUE
Now tidings of the coming of the Brethren had travelled to Antioch,
and there were many strange tales concerniing them spread abroad
among. the Jews who dwelt in that city.
It was said that Paul, a learned man, who had sat at the feet of
Gamaliel in Jerusalem andlearnedmuch fromhim of the ancient wis-
dom of the Temple, had become one ofthe newsect ofthe Christians,
THE SECOND PARCitMENT 129
and that he had the keys to a strange knowledge that was given
him by great prophets that had arisen in J udrea.
The tales of his acts and of the acts of the Apostles were much
confused, and they had the substance of truth and the substance of
lies within them ; so that the Rulers of the Synagogue scarce knew
what they might believe, and what they should cast out from their
minds. For it is a hard thing to sift the truth andl separate it from
what is false when it be borne in travellers' tales from afar.
Yet there was in Antioch one who had some lmowledge of the
happenings at Jerusalem, and he of all men held his peace, telling no
tales, biding his time, so that he might perceive the web these
Christians would weave about the people of Antioclh. And the man
was named Nahor, and he was little and dark and 'one of the Rulers
of the Synagogue.
There were two others who ruled with him and had authority
over the Elders among the Jews in that city. One:had yellow hair,
and he was like unto the Lion of Judah. · Such was the talk of the
people. And the other was grey-haired, and quic:k in speech. He
toiled night and day, seeking, when the work of his trade was ended,
to bring unto the Lord God of Israel those heathens that dwelt in
great numbers at Antioch. He was zealous for his !faith, and desired
to draw all men unto the beliefs of his fathers and to nourish them
upon the law of Moses.
And the first, who was likened unto the lion, and was named
Abishail, was a zealous man who delighted in rites and observances,
and loved to hear his own voice sounding in the Synagogue as he
expounded the Scriptures and gave of his learning to the ignorant
people.
These two Rulers had gone much among the :Romans, and had
caused some of them to believe in the God of Judrea, and had
admitted some of them .into their faith, circumcising them, and
thus making many proselytes, who gave of theilr moneys to the
Synagogue and certain privileges to the Jews. ·
Thus it was that these two Rulers welcomed Pa111l and Barnabas,
deeming that Paul, being learned, would win others of the heathen,
causing them to believe in the commandments and the laws given
by God unto Moses on Mount Sinai. They knew that Paul bore
with him some new truth concerning the interpretation of the
Prophets, and they were glad at heart.
For they said unto themselves : "This teacher from Jerusalem,
who has come to us from Antioch and Cyprus, will tarry with us
but a short space, and when he has given of hi:S wisdom to the
people, and is gone hence, then shall we reap the harvest of it among
Ic
130 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
the people, and mayhap among the Romans ; for this man hath
knowledge of them and is of that citizenship."
Now the third Ruler, Nahor, outwardly worshipped the Lord God
of Israel, but inwardly he was given over to vanity and to the
worship of his own being. He desired to be first in the Synagogue
and first among men, so be sought with many strategies to gain
power, that he might rule in Antioch, and yet not be known as its
ruler.
He bad but little knowledge of the law of Moses and of the wisdom
that passeth from one generation to another among those who are
first in the Synagogue. Yet he had knowledge of the means whereby
man is ruled and guided ; and he, being one that could speak with
bonied words, could by craft win those who seek after flattery.
He was sought out by the wives of the Magistrates in Antioch,
and they were guided by his counsels and instructed their husbands
as to the rules of the religion of the Jews.
So Nahor was possessed of much secret power, and he drew these
good women to him by speaking of the only true faith, which was
belief in the Lord God of Israel and in His Prophets. These women
had tired of the many gods of Rome, for they said truly, "If we
propitiate one, we may anger another. And this great God of
whom Nahor speaketh is of good report, and appears to be mighty
in power. We will believe on Him, and win our kin to that belief."
Thus it came to pass that Nahor was much favoured by these
women, and he was oft-times among them. But he was not content,
for he was third in the Synagogue, and ruled by the commands of
the two Elders.
And he sought to be the chief among them, so that he might
remain the wise man and counsellor to the devout woinen through
whom it was his purpose to rule in Antioch. And he was glad at
the coming of Paul and Barnabas, for he thought that these men
might make division among the Rulers, or show their wisdom to be
but a shallow pool in the hour of disputation. Then would he,
Nahor, prove himself to be chief among them, and in the sight of the
women win the crown of wisdom.
It was in his mind that he would stand with Paul and hold with
him in word and deed, turning thus upon the first and second
Rulers, who were set in their beliefs, and held to the rites and obser-
vances that had been given to them by their fathers.
Nahor had heard Peter preach the Word, and he had witnessed
some of the miracles of healing that had been wrought in those days
that followed Pentecost, when the Jews of many nations were
gathered together at Jerusalem.
THE SECOND PARCHMENT
There arose in the mind of this man a vision of himself as the
chief of the Church in Antioch-a Church fashioned by these
strangers; and that he might be, when he had learned the secrets
of these Christians, as great a teacher and a wonder-worker as
Peter, and all men would bow down to him and yield him
obedience in Antioch. Such was the vain dream of the cunning
fool.
So he spake the Brethren fair when they entered into the city
in the valley, and he gave them housing, and, in company with
other members of the Synagogue, also shelter to those who were
afilicted by the hurts dealt out to them by the robbers.
When the Sabbath Day was fully come, the first and second
Rulers held converse with Paul and Barnabas, and asked them to
tell of the new wisdom and the new interpretation of the Prophet,
which it was reputed had been spread abroad in Judrea.
And Paul rose up in the Synagogue, where there was a great
assembly of Jews and proselytes, and he was careful in his speaking,
for first he gave unto those who hearkened the chronicle of the
chosen people of the Lord, showing that, from the days of Moses,
they had been set apart for a purpose by the Most High.
Many times had they strayed from the ways of truth, yet had
there risen up among them the stem of Jesse, and from this stem
had sprung David, who had been the first of his race to know that
one who would spring from him should not see corruption, but
would conquer death through his Body of Light.
And he showed how David, in all the bloom of his days, yearned
to know this mystery, whereby a son of man should live the life
of men, and yet, in his ending, not know the corruption that is the
lot of all the sons of Adam. And David sought in vain, and the
wish of all his years was not granted unto him. But to one who
had sprung from his stock was it given, and through Him was
witnessed by many the redemption of the body. So that the
Scriptures were fulfilled when it was written : " Thou shalt not
suffer thy Holy One to see corruption."
And Paul testified unto Christ, speaking of His teachings, and
of how He had been reviled and persecuted and hanged upon a tree.
But, when Paul spoke of the mystery of the resurrection of the
body, the first Ruler, he that was known as the Lion, was roused to
anger, and he disputed with the stranger; for.he would not permit
that such teaching as the rising of the body and the belief in the
everlasting life should be given in the Synagogue to an ignorant
people.
He was at heart a Sadducee, but did not talk openly of this belief
132 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
in the Pit and in the quenching of all light and life in the everlasting
death.
And Paul spoke out boldly, for he would not be silenced, nor
would he be gainsaid, and Barnabas followed him, speaking of the
Master Christ as being in very truth the Son of God, who could
forgive sins, and had redeemed him from the death everlasting
through the sacrifice upon the cross.
And those that hearkened in the Synagogue were greatly moved,
and they cried out when the Ruler sought to still the voice of this
teacher and sought to disperse the assembly. Then this man was
much angered, and he showed such bitterness in his speech that
the people demanded that he should go forth or be silent.
So he went from the Synagogue, and Paul and Barnabas continued
in their teaching, showing how God had taken on flesh and lived
among men and died for them, so that they should not be utterly
destroyed, cast into the Pit, but that they might rise on that last
day, and find peace and the life that God had prepared for those
that believed on Him and loved Him.
CHAPTER VI
THE GENTILES FAVOUR THE PREACHING: THE DESIGNS AND JEALOUSY
OF NAHOR ARE REPROVED BY PAUL
Now the Rulers of the Synagogue had certain powers, and they
might have removed from this Holy Place those that were not of
good conduct, and some of these might be scourged if they sorely
offended. But, on this day, when the strangers taught, there was
gathered within the Synagogue a great concourse of ]ews and
Greeks and certain Romans.
Many of these were proselytes, and they were eager to hear the
tidings of the prophet who had borne unto the earth the pure
knowledge of the life to come, a life that might be for all who
repented of their sins and obtained forgiveness through the Son
of God, who had taken on Himself the likeness of man and lived
among the poorest and the humblest of the people.
So it came to pass that these proselytes were greatly stirred,
and, being secretly guided by Nahor, they made such disturbances
that the first Ruler of the Synagogue, who had desired to put these
THE SECOND PARCHMENT 133
strangers out, was, for the sake of peace, compelled, with certain of
his following, to leave the place of worship, so that he might not
hearken to what was an offence and bitterness to llli"ll.
And Paul, after Barnabas had ceased, continued speaking,
saying: "We be not working against the law of Moses, as one
among you has alleged, though we hold that through Christ all
things are justified, but not so through the law of Moses. He was
the first. And, as ye know, in springtime first there is the root,
then cometh the branch, which was John, who bore unto us the
baptism of repentance, and after that was the flower, which is
Christ ; and from Him cometh the seeds of a great Church, which
shall not be for one nation only, but also for the heathen, for the
Gentiles who have not known God.
" And there shall be no superior people ; to all shall be granted
mercy, and those that be pure in heart shall inherit this Kingdom
of Heaven of which I have spoken."
Paul turned unto the second Ruler, who strove to hinder him
in his speech, and he addressed him in the words of the prophet of
Israel: "I have nourished and exalted children, and they have
rebelled against me. Hearken unto this, 0 ye people, and beware,
lest ye shut your eyes and close your hearts, perceiving not the
sign which is given unto you.
"For then shall we turn unto the Gentiles, if ye despise the
truth and harden your hearts, as the High Priests and those in
authority hardened their hearts, and delivered unto death the Son
of God, the Prince of Light."
And now there was great tumult. For those who were strict
Jews, believing in the law of Moses and in the rite of Circumcision,
were greatly angered, and, rising up in company with the second
Ruler, sought to make an end and cast these strangers from their
Synagogue.
Certain of the proselytes would gladly have continued to hearken
unto Paul, who, in their eyes, was in very truth the Messenger from
the Most High, but the saints were not minded to raise disturb-
ance, nor would they have aught but peace in that H0ly Place.
So they went forth, and many Greeks and Romans gathered in
their train, beseeching them to give them further tidings of the
marvel of this Gospel, which was not like unto the ancient wisdom,
but like naught else under the sun.
Now I would speak of the th.ird Ruler, of Nahor, who had appeared
unto the youth in the semblance of a viper upon the hillside on the
eve of the Sabbath.
I have spoken of his vainglory, of his desire for power, and he
134 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
was greatly rejoiced, for there was division among the Jews, some
taking the part of the saints, and some the part ofthose who upheld
the law of Moses, and derided what they called the false god of
fools. It was N:thor's purpose to set up the Church of Christ in
Antioch through the preaching and teaching ofPaul andBarnabas.
Then,when they had gone to reap in other fields, he would be hailed
as the prophet, and he would be in authority, and the Romans
wboruled in that citywould bow down to him, for, after thepreach-
ing in the Synagogue, they favoured the new teaching. Did it not
make of them sons of God, equal with the chosen people and heirs
of eternal life? These Romans had feared the many and cruel
gods that had been set over them according to the false teaching
of their men of learning. Now theywere freedfromtheseavenging
gods, and had come out from the darkness of their errors into light.
Theywere greatly rejoiced at the promise of salvation, the promise
of a brighter, clearer day when this day of earth was ended. Ye
know not the fine savour of this joy that cometh with the first
tidings of the Master; foryehavedwelt always with the knowledge
of Him, so He is not for youin that first loveliness thatwas as the
dawn for these Greeks and Romans.
Yet, as a cloud gathered quickly, so gathered storm and anger
among those Jews who feared the overthrow of the law of Moses,
and therefore spoke with harshness and bitterness against the
stranger. Bht their words would not have prevailed if it had not
been for Nahor and for the vainglory that burned within him.
Certain of the saints lodged within Nahor's house, and, having
tidings of a snare that was set for them by the two Rulers of the
Synagogue, he warned Paul that it was intended that he and
Barnabas should be taken by night to the mountains, where they
would be bound to stones in a solitary place in that ·wilderness, and
left there to be torn to pieces by the wild beasts or to die of hunger.
There was truth in this tale, so the Brethren were housed in
quarters near the dwelling-place of the Chief Magistrate. His wife,
who had hearkened unto Paul on the Sabbath in the Synagogue,
desired to have speech with him, and, when he was in her presence,
he spoke out boldly, saying that she, as others who repented, might
be baptised and might become one of the children of light.
She questioned him, and, being greatly amazed by the wonder
of h'is words, cast her gold and silver ornaments before him, her rich
apparel and her treasure, telling him that all these would she give
unto the Church of Christ, and she would from henceforth live
simply, worshipping the one true God.
Now Nahor liked not this great fervour, for he feared that his
THE SECOND PARCHMENT I35
power over this woman, who ruled her husband and thus in a manner
ruled Antioch, would be withdrawn from him and bestowed on
this.stranger, who, tempted by it, might remain in Antioch, going
no farther upon the work of the Lord.
So he chid this woman for her excess of righteousness, and he went
from her chamber with a darkened face, following Paul to his abode.
It was Nahor's purpose to demand of Paul some surety, to ask for
the first place in the new Church which was to be founded at
Antioch.
And Paul seemed to have little or no understanding of his desire.
He would not apprehend the great work that might be wrought
by this man, nor hold for much that he was high in the esteem of
the Romans and certain of the Jews.
And it came to pass that Paul spoke of the Master and His
saying that the first should be last and the last first. Then Nahor
ceased from fair speech and honied words and demanded of Paul
the chief place in the Church of Christ at Antioch.
The saint made answer, "Thou art ignorant of righteousness;
thou hast not submitted unto the righteousness of God."
Then Paul went to the threshold of that chamber and beckoned
to a crippled man arrayed in foul rags and covered with sores.
At the sign from the saint he arose, stumbled forward upon his
sticks, and, when he was come unto Paul, he cried out, " Thou
knowest that I believe in the Master, and would serve our Lord
Christ in all things."
"This crippled beggar," said Paul, turning unto Nahor, "I
would set above thee in the Church of Christ. I do know that
yesterday from sunrise he had naught to eat, for the people were·
in a fever passing to and fro, so they forgot this cripple. When
evening had fallen he came upon a crust, yet he would not eat,
for he found one that was poorer and hungrier than himself, a woman
of the town who ha:d not eaten for two days, she having been cast
out from the mart where she was to be sold for moneys.
"Now, Brother Nahor, canst thou give up all as this q~an hath
given up all ? Art thou prepared to be smitten for the sake of
Christ, to be buffeted, to receive stripes, and mayhap to die in
torment for His sake? If this be so, thou shalt be equal in the
Church with my brother the beggar, who hath faith and hath
shared all with the woman who hungered·and was in the eyes of
all men soiled."
Nahor made no answer. He went from the presence of Paul
greatly in wrath, his heart set against the Church. For he believed
that Paul was his enemy, and sought to humiliate him thus before
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
the sweepings of the town. And this fool believed that the saint
was in his own image and desired power and the ruling of others,
so he sought to overthrow one who might contend with him for the
chief place in Antioch.
Thus it came to pass that Nahor turned against the company
of the Brethren, and, in the darkness of his ignorance, he searched
for some plan whereby he might destroy the Church of Christ and
make of none avail the labours of Paul, who had thus shamed him.
CHAPTER VII
NAHOR POISONS THE MINDS OF THE WOMEN OF ANTIOCH
NAHOR sought the women who were held in honour in Antioch,
the wives of those Romans who had authority in that city, and he
asked them to come to the garden of the house of a friend, where
they might talk together. They believed they would there be
given further tidings of the strangers and of the Gospel they were
bringing to the Gentiles.
When Nahor presented himself to them they gathered round
him like bees, and entreated him to lead these strange men
unto them, so that they might be further instructed in the mystery
of the God who had come to earth, taken on mortal flesh, and then,
through the might of His Spirit, conquered death and walked once
more among men in the body that had been pierced with holes and
rent in divers places.
And Nahor answered that he had not come to speak with them
concerning the teachings of Paul and Barnabas ; he had come to
tell them of the evil purpose that was in their hearts.
These men, he said, were as beggars in their own land, and had
been among the multitude who had spread themselves about the
wise man and the prophet who was known as Christ in Judrea, and
they had hearkened unto His words, but not for any good purpose.
They sought only to use the sayings of one who was no longer upon
earth, and therefore could not testify against them, to advance
their own name, to gain riches, and to have authority over the
Gentiles.
It was true that Paul was not one of these lowly men, but he had
not been among the people who had hearkened to Christ ; he had
THE SECOND PARCHMENT I37
come to Jerusalem at a later time, and he had perceived that he
would not be chosen to be among the wise men, to be one of the
Sanhedrin; so he had in his anger sought out those in Jerusalem
who were of the new sect that followed Christ. And among them
he was reckoned as being but of little account, so he sought the
Gentile, thinking to persuade him that he was the mouthpiece of
the one who had been called the Messiah. In this manner he had
gained much wealth, which had been hidden by him, and he went
thus from city to city obtaining gold and treasures from the foolish
and the unwary in the name of the Prophet Jesus.
And here in Antioch he had fooled the wife of the Chief Magistrate,
and, not knowing the guile of his nature, she had given him much
treasure, believing in his persuasive speech, believing in his poverty,
and that she was giving all to his God that was delivered unto him.
But of a truth this was not so. He had kept this treasure
for himself, and he was but a robber and a dissembler, seeking
thus to live upon the folly that is in the minds of some men and
women.
Then were those who had gathered about Nahor much exercised,
and they said unto each other: "We were prepared also to give
up our possessions, as this man Paul instructed us. Yet we have
not been deceived so far, nor shall we fall into the snare into which
our sister hath fallen." And they returned to their dwellings,
where they spoke with their husbands, and gave them tidings of the
folly of the wife of the Chief Magistrate.
Now she was one who had strange and fiery moods, and when
she was possessed with zeal it was like unto madness for a space,
so that she heeded not the counsel of her reason, but gave herself
up wholly to the fire that burned within her.
And so it came to pass with her, as it is ever with those who seek
not counsel in the quiet of their hearts, that she turned bitterly and
with great heat against the things she worshipped, and gave herself
over to a hatred that was as powerful as the love and zeal that had
possessed her but a few hours before.
The tidings were borne to her by Nahor that she was called the
fool of Antioch, that it had been given out that a babbler, a seeker
after folly, had persuaded her to give up to him all her treasure.
And when she made answer that Paul was a prophet who sought
not his own, Nahor reported to her the talk of the Jews, and spoke
words of condemnation th~t had been uttered by the Rulers of
the Synagogue.
And scarcely had Nahor ended when the women came into their
presence, and they were like ants, seeking with mocking speech to
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
sting the vanity of this woman and drive her into a frenzy and
humiliate her because of her pride.
When they had thus stirred her to wrath, they withdrew, and
she knew that they would make sport of her with others, and, if she
did not act in haste, she would of a truth be humiliated to the earth
in the eyes of all who were of good repute. So she went to her
husband and she told him a tale that Nahor had prepared and given
her as wise counsel, and as the only speech that would serve her
if she was to hold in his eyes, and in the eyes of all, the esteem of
those Romans who were in authority in that city.
Her husband was slow of wit, and he was prepared at all times
to hearken unto her, and when he learned from her that these
strangers had come only to make disturbance inr that city, that
they sought to set Jew and Gentile the one against the other, he
was much perplexed in mind, and said, " If this be the truth, they
shall be cast from the city, so that the civil ordermay be maintained.
We are on the eve of the Sabbath. If the people are stirred up on
the morrow by the speech of these men, then shall I give forth the
decree of banishment and the city shp.ll be freed from the presence
of these strangers.''
With this answer was his wife well content, and yet she was much
amazed when she learned that the treasure she had surrendered
to Paul had been given to the poor, and that fair division had been
made among the multitude of beggars who hungered and had not
had their fill for many moons in that city, it being a time of dearth,
the land having been scorched for want of rain.
This tale of the bestowal of her possessions was borne to her by
a slave, and when she spoke of it to Nahor he denied it, calling the
slave a liar. And in those days no man accepted the word of any
slave.
Yet at a later time, when the Brethren had gone from Antioch,
this woman learned that he had spoken what was true. And she
learned also that many would have died in that time of need if it
had not been for the bread and corn that had been given to the
people through the sale of her treasure.
Such was the tale, and the woman was in that hour greatly
shamed, and she turned again unto the teachings of the Master,
sending messengers from the city to seek out those that served
Him, so that they might come unto her, baptise her, and make her
a member of the Church of Christ.
THE SECOND PARCHMENT 139
CHAPTER VIII
THE EXPULSION FROM ANTIOCH
THERE was much stir in Antioch during the days that followed the
speech of Paulin the Synagogue. Men sought out andspoke with one
another concerning the tidings of the Gospel and these strangers who
had a fire and a fervour in their talk that wrought upon the minds
of those who were yet as babes in matters that concerned the
mystery of God.
The Greeks and Romans sought out the Brethren at all times, so
that it was deemed needful that a watch should be set about them;
and, as the days passed, the anger of the first and second Rulers of
the Synagogue waxed mighty ; and they went to and fro among
their own people, saying: "We must lay hands upon these men
when they rise up and teach on the Sabbath, and let them be so
buffeted that they shall not come again to Antioch, but will fly
hence to the hills."
And on the eve of the Sabbath the· Rulers, becoming fearful of
tumult, sent word by a sure hand to Paul and Barnabas, warning
them of the rude buffeting that would be bestowed on them if they
did not haste them from the city. And certain of those who served
in the Synagogue came with this greeting to Paul and B~rnabas,
and offered themselves as a guard that would accompany them from
the city and set their feet upon the road that led to the mountains.
And Paul made answer: "Naught but the guile of evil men shall
uproot us from the soil of Antioch. We are not afraid of persecu-
tion, and gladly would we suffer torment and stripes on the morrow,
for then, of a truth, men would believe in the tidings that we bear
to them and in the earnestness of our purpose. We shall speak on
the morrow. Naught shall silence tis, for the multitude need our
words and our prayers." .
All that evening the people passed to and fro in the streets speak-
ing with one another, shouting or crying out, or demanding of the
passers-by if they were for believing in the new God, the Messiah,
or if they were for the law of Moses and the Rulers of the Synagogue.
And· some who, in their reply, displeased them, were beaten or
hunted through the streets and by-ways. It came to pass that
there was no rest on that eve in Antioch. Strange tales were told
concerning the wives of those in authority, and some maintained
that Paul was a robber who had stolen the treasure of the Chief
Magistrate ; others contended that he had come into that c1ty
140 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
with much gold and had bestowed it on the beggars, so that they
might rise up and make disturbance.
Thus it was that the minds of men were as a cauldron, bubbling
and seething with their tales and with the furies aroused by them.
And so the Chief Magistrate, perceiving all this strange stir, this
passing to and fro, was prepared to hearken to the words of his wife
when she came unto him, in her anger demanding that the stranger
should be cast forth from the town.
Like a green place in a desert was the quiet that reigned about
the Brethren, they being gathered together in prayer, and Paul
and Barnabas seeking in the silence of their souls that wisdom that
cometh only from the Spirit.
Few slept in Antioch that night, for men had taken sides, and
some felt that this Gospel was of a truth the greatest wonder that
had ever come into the life of man. At sunrise these did set them-
selves about the Synagogue, waiting for one whom they now knew
to have been blinded for a short space by the vision of God.
Soon the multitude increased so much that the guard was sum-
moned to keep a way for those who came and went, and for the
people in authority who sought to enter the ·Synagogue, so that
they might hearken unto Paul. Certain of these came because of
the tale that the wife of the Chief Magistrate had been persuaded
to give up all to this strange man, and others came to learn more
of Christ and His strange passing from the earth.
Yet when Paul sought to speak in the Synagogue the Rulers
called on those who served them to silence him. And there was
great tumult, some saying, "Yea, yea," and some "Nay." But
the Rulers prevailed with the people; and the saints went from the
Synagogue and spoke to the multitudes of the uncircumcised who
were without, saying: "These Jews are not worthy of that life
to come of which we bear you the glad tidings. They seek but the
darkness of the tomb, so turn we unto the Gentiles, and Greek and
Roman shall share in that heritage this people hath cast from them."
And one cried : " Is it not enough that we agree unto the law of
Moses? Would ye lay other burdens upon us? "
And Paul made answer : " The law of Moses was but half the
measure. We bear to you the full measure in the Gospel of Christ.
Ye will not find all that is needful for salvation in the law of Moses,
but in the death and rising again of our Master Jesus ye shall obtain
forgiveness for your sins, and shall, if ye have faith, attain unto that
life everlasting to which He hath prepared the way."
And the people gave a great shout, and some leaped into the air,
and others saluted their fellows upon the cheek, showing thus their
THE SECOND PARCHMENT
joy in these words, that were to them more marvellous than any
tale of the heathen gods or any tale of the God of Israel.
Paul and Barnabas exhorted them with great earnestness, striving
to win them for Christ, so that they would seek baptism before
the setting of the sun. For it was known to the Disciple of
Damascus, as some called him, that evil was at hand and the time
of their hold upon the hearing of this people short.
And, even as he spoke, the word was passed from one to another
that way should be made for the guard of the Chief Magistrate.
And lo ! there came a silence, and the people danced no more for
gladness, but huddled together as sheep upon the mountain who
have knowledge that the wolves are near them.
Then was the decree of banishment from that city delivered to
Paul and Barnabas. They were not permitted to say any word in
their defence, but led unto the dwellings where they had been
housed, and there they were bidden to take with them what they
possessed, and, under guard, led through the streets to the gates of
the town.
The multitude of Greeks and certain of the Jews followed the
soldiers, crying out that this was an ill deed, and praying the
Disciples to return unto them; but then there came bands of Jews
sent by the Rulers of the Synagogue, who drove hence those that
had goodwill for the saints. And,being Pharisees, and stili necked,
they did cry out upon the name of the Master Christ, givingutterance
to such foul words concerning Him and His teachings that the
Brethren stopped their ears, and prayed that grace should fall
upon their persecutors and remove the blindness from their withered
souls.
When the guard had led the Disciples without the town, they
closed the gates, so that no man might follow them or have inter-
course with them. And these soldiers, being of a cruel temper,
with their spears pricked the bodies of the Brethren, and their
mouths gave utterance to the foul blasphemy that bad been spoken
by those who served the Rulers of the Synagogue.
Then were Paul and Barnabas o;orely grieved and angered because
of the ignorance of these men. They cast from their sandals the
dust of that town, declaring that they would not return to a city
where such blasphemy had been uttered, and that it should return to
the darkness of the shadow of death that endureth, and have no
knowledge of the truth and the light.
When the soldiers had departed, and the Brethren had turned
their backs upon the city in the valley, there was sorrow among
them, and they set forth upon the road with heavy hearts ; for it is
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
an ill thing to give over a city to the Evil One and the night. And
lo ! as they climbed the hill, there came a voice from behind them
bearing to them salutations from the people of Antioch.
Paul and Barnabas turned about, wondering at this summons,
fearing some evil. Then they perceived certain youths whose
clothes were rent, and whose limbs were stained with blood. These
spake with them, saying: " Masters, we have risked our lives to
come unto you, so that we might entreat you at some future time
to return again to Antioch; for many in our city believe in your
words, yet dare not defend you because of the anger of the Jews
and the decree of the Magistrate. But come again unto us when
there be other Rulers in our Synagogue, and then shall all hearken
unto the tidings that ye bear unto us concerning the Messiah."
Paul and Barnabas blessed these youths, telling them to guard
the truth and write it upon the tables of their heart ; and that they
or their Brethren would return unto Antioch when the time was
ripe for the harvest.
Thereupon the youths sought the blessing of the saints and
departed, leaving them to wonder at their own feebleness of faith,
at their own heaviness of spirit. For they had not failed in Antioch,
as was their belief ; they had laid the first stones of the Church of
Christ in that city in that hour, and they were filled with the peace
of the Holy Ghost. All fear and weariness left them, so that they
were glad of heart, and prep~ed to preach the Gospel in !conium,
a city that lies nigh a great plain, that is not far from Antioch,
and·at that time had many Jews within its borders.
CHAPTER IX
THE WORK AT !CONIUM STRENGTHENED BY THE MARVEL OF THE
FINDING OF WATER
Now !conium is two days' journey from Antioch, and the road to
it passes through a barren, sun-scorched wilderness. In the days
when the Brethren journeyed through it, the dust of the road rose
up, gathering about them, and the insects arose and tormented
them; yet were they joyful, and they sang praises unto the Lord
as they journeyed in the heat of the noonday.
Their souls surrounded themselves with peace as with a nest made
witp grass ; so they feared naught, being upheld by the Holy Spirit,
THE SECOND PARCHMENT 143
who had entered into them when their faith mcreased, and they
were no longer cast down and heavy with despair.
There were many Jews in !conium, and one named Nathan gave
the Brethren welcome and shelter. They bore with them letters
from certain of his kin in Antioch, and he was eager to learn tidings
of the Messiah.
Thus they lacked neither helpers nor followers in those first days
in !conium. Nathan called together his friends and his kin, and
these, being of the Synagogue, besought Paul and Barnabas to
teach in it, and relate to the people these truths that they bore with
them from Jerusalem as the wind beareth seeds from far lands.
Now many believed when they spoke in the Synagogue, and the
Gentiles came also to hear the new masters who had come from far
places, and some were baptised and others were much moved in
heart and believed.
Only one, Tharamysis, a favourite of the Tetrarch, made mock
of them, saying that he hated his neighbour as himself, and all gods
and men were in his eyes evil, so that he would not worship this god
who had borne love unto the world.
"Yet shall this god bend you to his purpose," Paul made answer,
" and there shall come a time when thou shalt seek for his love, and
then mayhap thou shalt eat of the bread of affiiction and sorrow for
the blasphemy thou utterest in this hour."
And those that were nigh to Paul knew that the spirit of prophecy
was upon him. They besought him to speak further, and they
silenced the young man who sought only to jest.
Then did Paul show them that naught but the love of the Master
Christ could redeem the world, bear light into dark places, and give
peace to the afflicted and distressed.
"We seek to bear unto the earth the image of the Kingdom of
Heaven, and first must this hatred of man for man be blotted out,
then shall the Church of Christ be so shaped in love and charity
that there shall be peace and tranquillity for men, and they shall
live as Christ lived, sharing one with another the things of the earth
and the things of the Spirit."
And the sayings of Jesus Christ who was God were recited by
Paul in that time, so that many were converted, and the Brethren
sought to shape a Church in that city that should gather within it
both Jew and Gentile.
There came messengers from Antioch, and one among them was
Nahor. These spoke with the Rulers of the Synagogue, charging
Paul and Barnabas with treason to the law of Moses, and with the
utterance of blasphemy concerning the prophecies of Isaiah and
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
those of old time, who spake of the coming of the Messiah and of the
wickedness of a generation that would not know him.
Nahor and his compaLy claimed that the High Priest at Jerusalem
and the council of the Elders would be first among those who would
give greeting and worship to the Messiah. " But he hath not yet
come," these men maintained, "and certain of the people of
Jerusalem, for their own advancement and to gain power over the
people,.seek with a false tale to deceive the chosen people in all those
lands in which they dwell."
And so the Rulers of the Synagogue were dismayed, and they
brought the saints and the messengers from Antioch together.
Then there was disputation between them, and the Tetrarch,
learning of it, summoned them to his presence, and called on them
to speak, each in his turn, and make known their teachings and the
cause of their dispute.
Whereupon Paul and Barnabas rose up and confounded these
messengers, smiting them with many words, showing of a truth that
Jesus Christ was the Son of God. And when they had made an
end, the Ruler spoke unto them, saying : " Ye have the power to
exhort and ye do stir us up with your speech ; yet have ye shown us
no sign or wonder. Wher~fore we may not believe. But if ye be
in truth the Disciples of a God who hath come to earth, ye will show
us some marvel ; then, if we be satisfied, we will believe your
testimony and worship your God."
Now the day was nigh to its end and the multitude dispersed,
so Paul made answer that on the morrow, or on the day that followed
it, he would show the people a sign if the Holy Spirit would send
it unto him.
And all that night he abode in prayer, yet there was on the morrow
but emptiness in his mind, and so was it with the Brethren, and for
some days there came no sign, no voice that would guide them and
help them to bear testimony "unto Christ. But all had faith,
knowing that, if it was the purpose of the Spirit to win the people
of !conium unto the teaching of Christ, a sign would be given or a
marvel shown.
I have declared unto you the manner in which this town was set
upon that barren plain. It is nigh to a mountain, watered by the
springs of that mountain ; so it is green and beautiful in the sight of
men, with orchards and gardens, with flowers and fruit that deck
it about as a king's daughter is decked with rare garments andcostly
jewels.
Now the plain was dusty and barren and yielded naught to man,
so the people in that city depend upon the land that is round about
THE SECOND PARCHMENT 145
it, and,·if there be a drought, the husbandmen ar1e hard set to live,
and th~people of the town suffer also, for without water man is
without life. _
And it came to pass, in that first season in which Paul and
Barnabas dwelt in !conium, that the water clave to the mountain
and the springs were dried up on the hillside ; ;and the common
people made lamentation, and were afraid that all would be scorched
up, and that they would suffer need, and the plague and dearth,
which is the handmaid of death, visit them.
When tidings of their need were borne unto Paul and Barnabas,
the emptiness of mind went from them, and tbtey knew in that
hour that mayhap the sign of water would be given them.
So they went unto the Rulers of the people and.bade them come
unto the mountain. There did Barnabas declare unto them that
he would, through the Holy Spirit, lead them unto water, and
cause it to gush out in abundance, so that the fields should not
perish from dryness, and the people should be saved from dearth.
" Ye cannot make water out 'of dust ! " mo•cked the Rulers.
" Of a truth, if ye were able to do this marvel we should worship
your God, but we know that these many days it hath not raked,
so that ye cannot find what is not there." '
Then Barnabas prayed, and, when his prayer was ended, he
stretched out his arms, walking along the hillside with head bowed
down ; and a hush fell on all, and the Rulers followed him with
doubting gaze.
Of a sudden his arms were bent towards the ea1rth, and he called
unto the Brethren to come and seek in the ground for the treasure
that the people desired.
And when they had digged a little way, water gushed out, and
many came and filled their vessels, yet more wa.ter came, and it
was a spring that failed not, but gave forth full measure to the
people.
Then, at the bidding of the Spirit, Barnabas stretched forth his
arms, once more seeking what was, of a truth, th.
e very life of the
people, and once more water gushed out from the scorched earth,
and once more did the people fill their vessels ; rund this time they
lifted up their voices and praised the Messiah, the God of the
stranger.
On that hour were many baptised, for the finding of this water
was a great marvel. And some scores of men we:re·baptised in it,
and thus was Christ glorified on that day, the unbeliev,ing Jew and
the heathen being shamed and silenced.
The Rulers turned their faces away from th•e mountain, and
Kc
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
they went unto their own places in the city much displeased because
of the sign that had been shown that day unto them. Hard and
stubborn were their hearts. They hated the saints, who preached
humbleness of life, who bade them not to be puffed up or proud,
to show with works and faith, and not wiith idle acts of worship
and much speaking, that they believed in 1
the truth and the life in
the living God.
CHAPTER X
ON THE ADVICE OF THECLA, PAUL :LEAVES !CONIUM
FoR several seasons the Brethren abode in !conium, and they
rested not from their labours with the setting of the sun. For
they sought out the poor in the mean stree:ts when they had come
in from their toil, and also they went in unto the merchants who
feasted in the night-time, and were prepared, when they were
filled with wine, to hearken unto the strai1ger and make sport of
him. Yet there was little mockery made after the first hour of
teaching, and even the wine-bibbers were roused from the heaviness
that the grape of that land begetteth, and they hearkened as to
some tale of a poet or of a minstrel, so strange and wondrous seemed
to them the miracles wrought by Christ when they were told by
Barnabas, who was truly named the Son of Exhortation.
So the days and nights in Iconium passed as swiftly as a weaver's
shuttle. And the barque of the Church might have been shaped
within the first season of the Disciples' staty in Iconium if it had
not been for Nahor and his followers, who were like unto a foul
brood in a hive, seeking evet the destruction of purity and truth.
So were men swayed, as the leaves, one way and yet another
way, and there was much confusion in their minds. Contention
grew sharp among both the Gentiles and the Jews, and few dared
speak out boldly for the Master Christ, though in secret they
espoused His cause.
And lo I with the strengthening of the sun, there came a great
wind across the plain, bearing within it dust and sickness to the
people of that town. And then the Jevvs who had come from
Antioch told the common people that this sickness and these clouds
of dust were a sign of the wrath of God at the presence of the
stranger 'Within the gates of that city.
THE SECOND PARCHMENT 147
Thus it came to pass that both high and low were afflicted in
divers 'illanners, and so they turned their faces away from those
who had boz:ne unto them the gift of water and the tidings of the
· mystery·of God. Now Luke was of the company of the Brethren,
and he had been chosen as the Scribe and the physician of Raul,
who at times was ailing in health, needing the succour of one who
was learned in the use of herbs.
For Paul had, though of great strength, a stiffening in his b<,mes,
and strange pains from them that twisted and knotted his limbs
at times, causing him to be bent, and in later days he seemed but
small in stature because of this sick1_1ess of the body. Yet he was
ever stout of heart and firm of purpose, and thus, with the aid of
Luke, did he conquer the infirmities of his flesh.
In the time that the sickness fell upon !conium, men and women
were stricken with a plague of boils, and this was grievous unto
them. The young women were shamed, fearing to show their
faces to their lovers or their husbands.
Then it was noised abroad t_hat Luke had gone in unto the poor,
and had cured them of this sickness that was foul in the sight
of men. So the threatenings against the strangers ceased, and
they were sought out by reason of the power of healing within
them.
There was a certain woman of honourable state named Thecla,
who was beautiful and famed in that city for the sweetness of her
countenance, the light of her eyes. She was the beloved of Thara-
mysis, and they had often mocked at the saints, deriding their
poverty, their gospel of love, and their lack of possessions. Now
she fell sick, and she, like many others, lost her loveliness, and
her face was so perished that she could not bring herself to look
upon it, hiding it with a veil from the eyes of all. And she would
not give audience to l'haramysis, for fear he should seek to look
upon her countenance, and, perceiving the ill the sickness had.done
unto it, lose his love for her ; for then she would be in much anguish
of spirit, for he was in very truth the light of her life and in all
things dear to her.
But, knowing of his hatred of the saints, she sent unto them
secretly, asking that Luke should be led into her presence and
heal her, giving her back that loveliness so prized by Tharamysis.
Yet, when Luke stood before her, she was much disturbed and cast
down, entreating him to tell no man that he had been summoned
to her presence.
And Luke made answer: "It is not needful that I should stay
my tongue, for thou wilt at a later time declare urito thy kin that
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
I have been with thee. I will heal thee of these boils if thou wilt
but pay me the price that I shall ask of thee."
She showed him gold, and told him it might be his in abundance
if he would heal her, and set the bloom of health upon her cheeks
once more.
And he made answer : " I desire only that thou shalt hearken
unto my words for a short space, permitting me to tell the tale of
our Master Christ and of the forgiveness of sins that cometh from
Him alone."
Then did Thecla promise him audience at any time he might
choose to seek it, and he, being learned in the use of herbs, healed
her of the sore disease that possessed her. Yet, when she was once
more beautiful in the eyes of men, the desire to show the light of
her countenance was gone from her. She passedhernights wrestling
in prayer, and in the daytime she hearkened unto the teachings of
Luke and any of the Brethren who were expounding the Word of
the Lord.
Now many tales were told of Thecla and of Paul in that city,
for she was the first among the women, and in high repute for her
loveliness and the nobility of her birth. When she had once heard
Paul speaking in the market-place she would hearken unto no
other, seeking ever to sit at his feet and hear his words.
So a great scandal arose, and, if you hear strange tales of Thecla,
give them no credence, for she was pure in heart and sought but
the truth and the life.
Howbeit, the tidings of what was called a noble maiden's madness
were borne unto Tharamysis. He had for many moons been kept
from her company, and he had in this obeyed his own desire as well
as hers, for, being one who sought but the joys of life, he would not
soil them by looking upon the evil that had tainted his beloved,
the ill that had marred her countenance.
When he learned that she had been baptised, he was much
angered, and sought her presence, demanding that she should put
from her the teachings of these Jews and give herself unto him in
marriage. She strove with him, seeking to remove the blindness
from his reason, and to make of him a believer in the Messiah, but
he would not be gainsaid and in great bitterness went forth from
her presence.
Now in those days the power of the Spirit was bestowed upon
Paul and Barnabas in abundance. And they healed certain of
those who suffered from the fever borne to them by the hot wind
of the plains. And daily they went among the people, exhorting
them to be whole in Spirit as well as in body. And so it came to
THE SECOND PARCHMENT 149
pass that a community of saints was shaped out of the faith that
had been born through these signs and wonders. Men and women
remembered the miracle of the water and the cures wrought by the
strangers, and so they cast themselves at their feet, calling them
"Master," praying that they might be led to Christ.
And Tharamysis, who had at first only mocked the saints, now
sought their undoing. He held speech with Nahor, and together
they devised an evil that would, they believed, rid the city of this
pest. For there was naught in the teaching of the Disciples that
they could favour or bear with in any mann~r. No man who
putteth himself first will ever give heed to such teaching. So, one
for the sake of love, and the other for the desire of power, sought
the destruction of Paul and Barnabas. They were to be set upon
and stoned by hirelings, who should not cease from smiting until
they were slain.
But, before these men were given their charge, Tharamysis spake
with the Tetrarch, hoping to poison his mind and cause him to cast
forth the saints from !conium. The Tetrarch 'was a just man ; he
bethought him of the water that had gushed out from the side of the
mountain, and, though he would not believe in the teaching of
Paul, he would not do him hurt in any manner.
And Tharamysis went unto TheCla; speaking her fair, and hearken-
ing unto her talk concerning Christ and His saints ; for the young
man desired to learn the hour Paul and Barnabas would be without
the company of the Brethren, so that they might the more easily be
taken and smitten.
Thecla sought with words of love to win Tharamysis from the
evil that possessed his soul. And he was so stirred by her beauty
and by the wine of which he had partaken that he spoke of the
ill thing he had devised and of the death .that awaited Paul and
Barnabas. He deemed that it would be easy to smite them, for
on that very day there had been much disputation, Jew and Gentile
contending in words with the saints in the market-place.
Now Thecla led her lover on with honied words, causing .him
to betray all the secret thoughts of his heart, so that he cried out
that not for another day would he endure the presence of·Paul in
Iconium. Then this young man fell into the sleep of wine, and
Thecla, summoning one of her household, charged him that he
should seek out the saints anp give them warning that they would
be slain on the morrow, for there would be gathered together a
mighty company of both Jews and Gentiles, who for gold would
surely stone them, and thus put them to death.
The messenger bore unto this noble woman the answer that the
ISO THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOIPHAS
saints were not afraid, and would continue to abide in !conium ;
for there was much work for them still in this city. Then, heeding
not the peril to her good name, Thecla went out into the night and
sought the presence of Paul, and she made known unto him
the whole design of Tharamysis ; and she showed him letters
from Lystra and Derbe, from certain of her kindred who desired
tidings of the strange men who had wrouglb.t so many marvels in
!conium.
" There are others who have need of thee. Fall not into the
snare that hath been set about thy feet, but baste unto the people
of Lystra, who are likely to hearken unto thee and give thee
welcome." Such was the speech of Thecla.
And Paul bethought him that fur many months he had contended
with the Jews in !conium, and, because of their hatred and their
bitterness, much good fruit had been lost ; many of the heathen
who might have believed had turned awa.y once more into the
darkness of their idolatry.
There were few Jews in Lystra and Derbe; few were there,
therefore, to hinder the work of the Lord ; and the people, being
untutored and simple of mind, might the more easily be moved to
embrace the faith of Christ.
Fierce as the evening wolves were the unbelieving Jews in Iconium.
So Paul was weary and sick at heart, desiring only that he might
no more look upon the face of his own people, who had so often
mocked and derided the teachings of Christ.
The njght was dark, and Thecla, through a youth who was of her
kin, secured the right for the saints to pass without the city
gates. And that night they fled from !conium, seeking the road
to Lystra.
When day was come, Paul knew that in his flight he had been
guided by the Spirit. When they were gone from !conium the
common people would mourn for their comforters and their healers,
and would esteem the more highly the teachtings of those who bad
fled from their midst. Then would their faith in Christ be
established upon a rock, and naught would shake it or root it up
from the soil of their simple hearts.
THE SECOND PARCHMENT
CHAPTER XI
PAUL AND BARNABAS ARE AT FIRST TAKEN FOR GODS AT LYSTRA:
THE TERRIBLE DYING AND RETURN TO THE BODY OF PAUL
IT came to pass that in Lystra the Brethren drew about them
many of the husbandmen, and, when Paul could walk forth once
more, these were· gathered together in the market-place waiting
to hear the words of the stranger.
They were a simple people, who would hearken to any traveller
who bore them tidings from the great cities, and it was the common
talk that Paul and Barnabas had dwelt in Cyprus, and there had
seen many of the gods ; and stranger still was the tale that these
men had, in eastern lands, had intercourse with a god who was the
enemy of Jupiter, and would, in the days to come, seek to wrest
the earth from him.
Now it seemed wise to these poor, simple folk that they should
hearken unto the stranger and seek to learn from him which god
would prevail, for it might lead to the undoing of the people, to the
destruction of the harvest, if they worshipped a god who might be
overthrown.
Thus spoke they one with another in their own tongue. But they
had understanding of Greek, and so they could follow the words of
the preacher, yet were their wits so thickened by toil that they were
but confused at first by the tidings of the Messiah who had been
hanged upon a tree, and had died so that they might be forgiven
their sins and obtain a life of ease in the world after death.
They believed that this was the promise of the God of the stranger.
So they were eager to hearken unto Paul when he stood among
them, and, beckoning with his hand, demanded silence. But a
beggar, who had been a cripple all the years of his life, crawled to
the feet of Paul, and, in a loud voice, besought him, if he were in
truth the messenger of the God of Judrea, to cure him and
make him whole. Now Paul bent down, gazing with earnestness
upon the beggar, seeking that light of faith in his counten-
ance which is needful if the Spirit is to pass from the master to the
ailing map.
And Paul perceived that there burned within this ignorant man
the pure fl.arrtes of the Spirit, and so he doubted not, but prayed
that the power might be given him to heal.
And lo I there came that strange stirring within him and the
whisper of voices in his ears; he was filled with the joy everlasting.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
and cried out, " Rise up and walk, for behold the Spirit is with thee
and me and it maketh thee whole."
Then did this man, whose limbs had never borne him, rise up and
leap into the air, and run across the market-place, as swiftly as the
youth runneth in his hunting or in his games.
And the people were amazed and trembled, and first they mur-
mured, saying, "We have been blind. These are not men, but
gods." Then they cried out in their own tongue," Behold, Jupiter!
Behold, Mercurius ! These are the mighty gods come down to
earth to give us increase and to bless our lands."
And the multitude drew apart from the Brethren, and, as they
spoke but their own language, Paul and Barnabas did not know
that they had been hailed as gods. So they thought that the people
were turning against them, and would perhaps cast them out from
their midst. For their countenances were fierce and their cries wild.
Then Paul and Barnabas went to the house wherein they lodged,
and lo ! as Paul entered it, Timothy cast himself down at his feet,
calling him "Master," and declaring his belief in Christ and in the
power of the Holy Spirit. For Timothy had some learning, and
now at last had he understanding, and that faith in our Lord Jesus
Christ which remained with him through all the persecutions, even
unto death. ·
The people sought out the Priest, and bade him loose the oxenthat
were to be sacrificed in the temple without the town consecrd.ted to
Jupiter. They cried: ·~ Jupiter hath come to earth and is walking
among us, and in his company is Mercury ! " For Paul they held
to be Mercury, as he spake many words, and he had not the height
of Barnabas, whom they hailed as Jupiter.
They bore garlands of roses and other flowers and meat offerings,
the oxen that V{ere to be sacrificed, unto the house in which Paul
and Barnabas abode. And, when these two perceived the Priest
and the multitude, and learned that these men believed the gods
were come to earth and were among them, they prayed unto God for
guidance ; then, casting themselves into the midst of the worship-
ping people, entreated them to hearken unto their words, to believe
that they were but the messengers of the true God and humble
men like themselves.
But the people ceased not from worshipping, and the Priest
raised his lqlife, seeking to slay the oxen and make a sacrifice on the
instant that would appease these gods. And he was fearful, and
could not for terror perceive the meaning of their words.
So they rent their clothes, for they knew that this would be a sign
that might be comprehended by one who had knowledge .of the
THE SECOND PARCHMENT I 53
worshipping of gods ; and the fear passed from the hearts of the
people, and they rose up, making great tumult, aJ.ld demanding of
Paul and Barnabas some testimony as to their land and their gods.
And in that hour they spoke much concerning Christ and the
signs and wonders He had shown ; and the people listened in silence,
striving to grasp at the truth, which was as far beyond them as the
brow of the hills from the valley.
But there came to the Priest messengers from Nahor and the
Rulers of the Synagogue in !conium. These sought to make the
Priest and his people believe that Paul and Barnabas were magicians,
who held intercourse with Satan, and through his aid would work
miracles that would rouse the envy of the gods, who would punish
the people for listening to them and worshipping them.
The Lycaonians of Lystra had little knowledge of Satan, but they
perceived that they had erred in calling these men Jupiter and
Mercury, and feared the anger of their false gods; so they cried out
against the Brethren, casting stones at thein, reviling them, and
seeking to lay hands on the person of Paul and Barnabas.
The Brethren fled from that town. And Paul sought with words
to stay these poor heathens, entreating them to hearken to him.
And in that hour of need, as he stood alone facing their anger, he
cried unto the Spirit, praying that yet another miracle should be
wrought through him, and these tamed as the wild beasts of the
wilderness when they are led captive into the cities.
But the Spirit is, as I have told you, as the wind, and no man
knoweth the hour of its coming or its going. It led not that multi-
tude captive. They were deaf to the speech and the pleadings of
the saint, casting stones at him, striking him upon the face, and
trampling on his body when it lay upon the ground.
Many of them were drunken with wine, others were drunken with
fear; so they stayed not outside the temple of Jupiter, but sought
their cwn houses. For they still feared that the wrath of Jupiter
might suddenly fall upon them as fire falleth from the skies. They
believed that they had been bewitched and fooled, and must pay
the price of their folly.
•
Thus was Paul preserved from death ; and in that hour when he
lay upon the ground, sorely wounded and distressed in body, he saw
once more the face of Stephen, and it was like the face of an angel.
Then he knew that this was his punishment for his murder of that
brother in Christ ; and thus the anguish of his soul was eased.
He passed peacefully into the darkness of a swoon. Yet he lay
thus but for a short space, for his soul sought freedom from that
tom body which was no longer to be borne as a lodgment ; and so
154 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
his breath was like the flutter of wings, coming quick and short, as
the life sought that outer life, and the harbourage of the Invisible
to which Paul was nigh in that hour.
Of a truth he died, and his Spirit rose from the clay and yet again
beheld Stephen, his tortured face and the bloody sweat upon his
brow. And lo I a Voice spoke unto Paul, saying: "Take the hard
road back to earth ; thou art not washed clean of thy early sin.
Thou shalt die daily, suffer persecution a thousandfold, so that thou
mayest by expiation obtain the peace everlasting. Thy time is not
yet come. Enter again into the body and testify unto our Lord
Jesus Christ."
And a great anguish was Paul's, because he had thus passed
through the gate of death and must return once more to the clay
because of the slaying of Stephen in that past time, and because
the Church had need of him. There is no torment like unto the
torment of the return to the dead body; and this was the price Paul
paid fqr his own redemption.
He spoke only to a few at a later time of that hour when he was
without the body, when Stephen came unto him and bade him
coffin himself once more in the clay. For it was grievous pain to
Paul to remember the hour when the freedom of the Kingdom was
his and then was wrested from him, so that the purpose of the Lord
might be fulfilled.
CHAPTER XII
ON THE ADVICE OF TIMOTHY, PAUL LEADS THE BRETHREN TO DERBE:
GAlUS APPOINTED SHEPHERD OF THE FOLD THERE
THE Brethren had fled before the angry people; and now, when
they perceived the multitude had scattered, they became bold, and
in the twilight sought for Paul, calling to him, entreating him, if he
had voice, to make an answer. The people had dragged his body
outside the town. It had been their purpose, before fear seized
upon them, to carry it to the temple of Jupiter and perhaps offer
it to their god, so that his wrath might be appeased.
There were but kites near Paul when the Brethren beheld his
body ; and they were sure as they gazed upon it that life had fled,
and that their beloved brother in Christ had left them in this perilous
time, when men were in wrath a~ainst them, and they had no mm
among them who could guide them.
THE SECOND PARCHMENT I 55
For Barnabas, though of a kindlier nature, was one who could
comfort ratr.er than lead. And thus they mourned for Paul in
that dim hour, breaking into lamentations, and praying that his
soul might find rest in our Lord Jesus Christ.
And lo ! the body stirred.' It rose up from the ground, and the
voice of the dead gave them greeting, and they durst not utter a
word or raise their eyes, so stricken were they with wonder at this
rising up of the dead.
When they recovered from their amazement, they sought his
guidance, and he bade them return with him to Lystra, and seek
the house of Eunice and Lois, where they might obtain shelter for
the night and healing for their wounds.
One cried, " We are afraid, master, they will set upon us, and this
time all will be slain. Let us go hence while the darkness is still
a covering to us, for we greatly dread the messengers from Nahor,
the J ews of Antioch, who will not cease from pursuing until we are
utterly destroyed."
Howbeit, Paul would not hearken to this entreaty. He bade
them follow him. And, leaning upon the shoulders of Barnabas
and that new Disciple Timothy, he walked once more, seeking the
road to the street where was the dwelling of Eunice and Lois.
The gates of the city were open, and there was no guard
watching by them. The streets were empty of people ; no man or
woman stirred abroad ; the doors and all the openings to the
houses were fast closed, and a great hush was over that once
clamorous town.
The Brethren believed that this was a sign sent from God unto
them to give them heart.
They were made welcome by the kindred of Timothy, who gave
them food and treated their wounds, so that no man suffered more
than be was able to bear. And there was great rejoicing among
them, so that when the sun rose on the morrow they were prepared
to follow Paul into the market-place.
It bad been given out that the first sorcerer, who was known as
Paul, had been slain, and that only his bones, which had been picked
clean by the birds, remained without the town. So ease had come
to the minds of the fearful people, who believed that the death of
Paul would give satisfaction to their false gods, and that it might
stay their wrath, and sate their lust for a blood-offering.
And lo I as the sun rose and the people set about their work,
they perceived the strangers once more walking abroad in their
city. Whispers went from mouth to mouth that the dead were
walking ; that Paul the Sorcerer was once more among them.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
A great fear and bewilderment fell upon them, for they main-
tained that no man who had been slain could thus re-enter the body
and live once more in that ravaged habitation. So, of a truth, Paul
was not human, and, if he we're not Mercurius, he was some other
god, and they were, therefore, afraid to approach the Brethren or
to lay a hand upon them. The people were as if a serpent gazed
upon them. They dared not stir from the market-place, and there
was a great silence as Barnabas spoke unto them of the Messiah
and the words of the Gospel concerning the salvation of those of the
Gentiles who lay in darkness.
But, when Barnabas ceased from speaking, the Jews who had
come from Antioch and !conium went among the Gentiles and
sought once more to incite them againstthe saints. Then Timothy
entreated Paul and the Brethren to go unto Derbe, to one Gaius,
where they would find lodgment. There might they scatter. the
seed of the Gospel and teach the people, who were gentle and with-
out malice, who would gladly hearken unto them.
Timothy argued that, after a short space, the unbelieving Jews
would return to Antioch and !conium, then would the people of
Lystra be freed from tne venom of their tongues, and they would
listen to the teaching of the Brethren ; and this counsel seemed
good to Paul.
He hearkened to few men, but Timothy, though young in years,
was one of them. He was much loved by Paul, who held that he
possessed the wisdom of the Greek and the fervour of the Jew, these
two making him a mighty weapon that could destroy all disputation
or trouble among the Brethren. There was no difficulty that
Timothy could not overcome with his understanding and his eager-
ness ; so he became the companion of Paul in some of his later
journeyings.
Now Derbe is near a lake, and is a town remote from others.
The people had little knowledge of the doings of other nations, and,
there being no Jews among them, they had no knowledge of Christ
nor of the God of Israel. So the tidings the saints bore them were
as strange an4 fresh as the Garden of Eden to Adam in tht:: dawn
of the first day of Creation. And these people were greatly moved
by the tale of a loving God who was not like their cruel gods, but
had compassion for all men.
So many at Derbe embraced the faith of Christ, and Gaius was
appointed shepherd of that fold, for he was a man of understanding,
who at one time had studied in the schools at Tarsus, and he was
won through his wisdom, as the people of his townwere won through
simplicity, to a faith in Christ.
THE SECOND PARCHMENT 157
Here the Disciples rested, and here Paul became whole in body,
for he had been sick unto death after that wrestle between life
and death at Lystra, when Stephen had appeared unto him first
as a comforter, then as a judge, to sentence him to be once more a
prisoner in the flesh and subject to the cruelties of man.
CHAPTER X:UI
PAUL'S TALK WITH THE CAPTAIN ON THE VOYAGE TO ANTIOCH:
PAUL'S INTERCESSION SAVES THE SHIP FROM DESTRUCTION
PAUL, Barnabas, Luke, and the company of the Brethren obtained
passage in a ship that bore to Antioch• rare and precious mer-
chandise, to be sold to the rich Romans who dwelt in that city.
And the captain, who was free in his speech, said to the travellers:
" If we meet a tempest, and if tne ship laboureth sore against the
wind, I would more gladly cast into the sea the men who travel
with us than these treasures ; for they are of great price, and few
men are of the same worth as even the beasts of the field."
And Paul perceived that this man, though he jested, was one
who possessed great wisdom, not gathered from study in the schools,
but in his journeyings to the east and west. So, when the watch
was set, and the wind blew fair and the ship rode as a swallow over
the waters, Paul sought out the captain and talked with him con-
cerning his many journeys by sea and by land.
And the captain spoke of the edge of the world, of strange islands
that were near the very borders of the earth. These lands wer~
fair to look upon, and were peopled by men who had little knowledge
of the earth. Some of them knew not even of the greatness of Rome.
and were glad to hearken to the tales of travellers.
Paul, hearing of the people that thus dwelt in darkness, nigh
to the setting of the sun, hungered for these souls, yearning for their
redemption, and he asked of the captain the manner in which he
might journey to these islands, and whether the people that lived
upon them believed in gods, or whether they worshipped fire. Had
they tidings given them of the one God alone ?
The captain made answer : " Of a truth, master, they worship
strange gods. In these matters they have little learning. But,
as the Greeks have gods, so have these barbarians gods with strange
1 Io Syria.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
names, who are cruel, even as our gods are cruel. Many of the
people of my own nation no more believe in them. They say these
graven images are but vanity. We must worship man, not god.
Such is the new teaching of the learned men in the schools. I have
in my time hearkened to them, yet I do still have faith in the old
gods. They reign in Heaven, but I care not for them, and at times,
when there is a contrary wind, or when the storm beateth about
my ship, I hate these gods, for they have no mercy or charity. If
they cared for men, they would punish the evildoer. But they let
the wicked flourish, and by them are men of good report chastened,
and at times severely punished for their virtue. I look upon these
gods as the enemy of man. Yet I fear them, for they cast spellc; upon
the sea, causing it to boil and seethe when they are angered, and
causing many good ships to perish out of mere wantonness of spirit."
Then Paul opened his mouth and spoke of the one God ; of His
only Son, who had been hanged upon a tree, so that all men might
come to believe in the one God, and might put from them the graven
images of the false gods-these false gods beings but evil spirits,
children of Belial, of the Host of Satan. They persecuted men,
calling themselves gods when they were but of the Pit and of the
Evil One.
And Paul spoke of the Prophets, of their prophecies concerning
the Son of God, who would take on flesh and bear to men the
promise of the life everlasting.
" If the peoples of the earth will hearken to the teachings of
Christ, which we are bearing to the Gentiles, then, of a truth, will
the host of darkness be dismayed and cease from persecuting,
fleeing as the shadows before the rising sun. The Messiah gave His
life for sinners, so that all men might believe on Him and the image
of the Kingdom of Heaven be shaped upon the earth."
For a space the captain was silent and troubled. For, though he
spoke against his own gods, yet he would not have a stranger speak-
ing ill of them. And he declared himself in this wise : " Master,
mayhap your God is good, and mayhap He careth for the children
of men. But ye have not shown me by any sign that He is not an
evil spirit. You call my gods evil. Zeus is my persecutor, you
say. Now tell me for what reason I may believe that your Holy One
is true and my gods are foul and false.''
And Paul spake of the miracles wrought by Christ, of the miracles
wrought by His Disciples through the Holy Spirit, which had been
sent to them by Him. But the captain was of a stubborn mind, and
he made answer:" I have hearkened to the tales of many travellers,
master, and they are filled with such marvels, the known world
THE SECOND PARCHMENT I 59
could not contain all the wonder of them. Yet I do not doubt you.
I only ask that you show me a sign, so that I may believe in your
God and in His mighty power."
And Paul bade the captain bide his time, for, if the Lord God
desired to reveal Himself to him through a sign, then would a sign
be given. But all were not worthy, and no sign might be given
him. Then a silence fell upon these two, and Paul, making no
sound, prayed that this man might be saved, might be turned from
the unbelief which was as a cloud about him.
As night fell upon the sea there fell a great mist and darkness
with it, that, as the hours passed, did not rise or hghten. And the
captain became bewildered, not knowing to what quarter he was
bound. Then, out of the night, their appeared many little stars,
and these were the lights of a ship that drew nigh to them. The
captain hailed this ship, yet no answer was made to him, and the sea
was hushed, and the wind whispered no more in the sails. So the
captain sought to follow this ship through the mists, for he feared
the coast that was not far from them, according to his belief. There
came little p)lffS of wind that caused the greater vessel to draw
nigh to the silent ship that made its way before them through the
blackness.
And lo ! as they gazed upon it, the crew cried out with one voice,
" 'Ware, captain. Behold the ship with the burning lamps."
.And as they cried the wind freshened, and they heard the sound
of waves smiting the shore. Then they knew that they were in
great peril, being nigh to the Spears, evilly-shaped rocks that are
spread around that coast. "Call upon thy God to work a miracle,"
said the captain, " else we shall all perish, for the wind presses us
hard, and I know not in this night how I may shape my course."
Paul prayed. The ship with the burning lamps vanished, and
there was naught but darkness around them and the loud noise of
the waters breaking on the rocks. And Paul instructed the captain
concerning the manner in which he should guide his vessel, bidding
him have no fear, for the Lord had hearkened unto his prayer.
And the captain obeyed Paul ; for his mind was distracted, as he
had knowledge of the dangers that beset the path of the ship.
It was day, and still was the. darkness of this mist about them,
imprisoningthem sothat no eyecould perceive theland, norcouldany
man, even in the light, perceive the rocks that are near that shore.
The crew prayed to their gods, while the Brethren prayed unto the
Lord. And lo I the mist lightened, and there was a whiteness all
around. The waves made no great clamour, for the ship, guided by
the word of Paul, passed through the dangers that were about it,
!60 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
wheeling outwards, away from the coast, so that, when the mist
had lifted, the barque was once more upon the open sea, and both
men and treasure were saved from a sure destruction through the
sign that had been given by Paul unto the captain.
And when day came, and he could shape his course once more, he
cast himself at the feet of Paul, crying out that his God was the
only true God. For He had regard for me1
n, and had saved all in
that ship from perishing by reason of the 1guidance He had given
them.
And the saint made answer : " Of a truth my God hath guided us
through the perils that were spread as a sna:re about us. And your
gods, being the children of Beelzebub, sought to destroy us by
sending us this ship, which was but mist transformed into a shape
that would lure us on to death. Captain, you will again be in
danger as you ply your trade upon the waters. But, if you will
believe on our Lord Jesus Christ and pray unto our Father, as I shall
teach you, then you need not fear the winds or the tempests. For
even if these, despite :vour prayer, do shake and break your barque
into fragments, and devour you and the crew that serve you, yet
will you find no kingdom of the dead, as it is called by your learned
men, but shall, after your passing from this life, enter into the
Kingdom of Heaven, which hath been prepared for those that love
the Master Christ. You shall, in truth, be heir to the life everlasting,
and to a joy without ending, if you do now repent, and, turning
from your false gods, which are but evil spirits, worship the one
true God."
And the captain and his crew hearkened from that day forward
to the teaching of the saints, and were, at a later time, baptised
in Antioch.
CHAPTER XIV
PETER AND PAUL TAKE DIFFERENT SIDES IN THE DISPUTE ABOUT THE
POSITION OF THE GENTILE CONVERTS IN TilE CHURCH AT ANTIOCH
THERE was much rejoicing among the Brethren in Antioch when
Barnabas and Paul ca:me once more among them and rehearsed the
tale of their journeys, and spoke of the signs and wonders wrought
by the Spirit through them in Cyprus, at Paphos, in Antioch,
!conium, and Lystra. And when the elders had hearkened unto
them, Paul spoke unto all the faithful who were gathered together
THE SECOND PARCHMENT :r6:r
to hear the tidings the travellers bore them. There were many
Gentiles among the saints in Antioch, and they were steadfast in the
faith of Christ, and even more eager to bear testimony unto him,
and to lead his life, than the devout Jews, who were wary in all
their dealings with the Brethren who were not of their race.
Now Antioch, at that time, was a great city, and was the glory
of Asia and the abode of the men of many nations. Its gardens
and houses were fair to look upon, and it was a city where men spoke
much of God, and disputed with one another concerning the mystery
of life and death.
In a grove upon the slopes of Silpius stood a mighty temple built
by the Greeks in past days. And it was the place wherein they
worshipped Apollo and Diana, offering unto them blood sacrifices,
polluting the very name of god with the fornication and the foul
arts practised by them. And Paul and Barnabas declared that
they would overthrow these gods, that they would not by violence
cause their destruction, but through wisdom and through the
preaching of the truth would they win all men from them.
Now the city was governed by an assembly, but the Jews, who
were in great numbers, obeyed one called the Archon, and he, being
a Jew, yielded in matters of faith to no man in Antioch. When
hewas in doubt ne sent messengers unto the High Priest in Jerusalem
and sought counsel from him.
Now when Paul and Barnabas had been but a score of days in
Antioch, the number of those who believed in Jesus Christ was
mightily increased. For these two went forth among the Gentiles,
teaching in the market-place, teaching even beside the groves of
Apollo and Diana. And men, hearing that the people of !conium,
of Pamphylia, Pisidia, and Cyprus, were turning unto Christ, and
had come to believe in Him and His name, were moved to believe
also to seek baptism.
It came to pass that, on the Sabbath, when Paul taught in the
Synagogue, the Gentiles pressed in to hearken unto him ; and so
great was the multitude that the building could not contain them,
and certain of the Jews feared that soon the Gentiles would be in
greater numbers than they in the Church of Christ, and would
seek to destroy belief in the law of Moses and in the ancient covenant
of the fathers in Israel.
And Peter, coming at this time to Antioch, was sought out by
the Archon, who declared that he could not reason with Paul, who
was like one possessed,, seeking out the common people, gathering
within the fold vagrants of every race, baptising them, and making
them equal heirs with the devout Jews of Christ and His Kingdom.
Lc
I62 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
ThenPeter declaredthatJesus had bidden His Disciples to go unto
the ends of the earth, bearing His Gospel to thepeople in every land.
The Archon cried : " Let Paul and his Brethren go forth once
more and teach among the heathen, for these Gentiles will cause
trouble in our Synagogue and among our people if they increase
in numbers as, each day, they increase, while the Apostle of Antioch
is among us." For Paul had been named thus because of his
zeal for the Lord's work.
However, Peter would not yield to the word of the Archon, who
had declared his belief in Christ, yet feared the harvest that might
be reaped if all men believed in His name. Thus it was that Peter,
who had come for a season to Antioch, was beset by the Archon
and certain Pharisees on the one hand, and, on the other, by Lucius
and Manaen, who desired only the Church's increase. And to those
who would cast out the Gentiles, separating them from the believing
Jews, he made answer in this wise.
On the morrow following their conversation with him, he stood
beside Paul, and preached the Word of Christ unto the Greeks,
who were going up to the temple of Apollo to do homage to their
false gods, and certain merchants who hearkened to him besought
him to come into their dwelling and eat with them, so that they
might hear further tidings of the Messiah. And Peter, being
stirred by their earnestness and their desire for the truth, went
into their dwellings, not one day only, but on several days, teaching
without ceasing, sowing the seed of the Word wherever the soil
seemed fruitful.
Now many even of the J ews who had half believed in Christ
had not bidden Peter or Paul into their dwellings ; for they were
slow to yield themselves wholly to the new truths, and feared to
be seen in the company of the Disciples. So it came to pass that
the Archon sent messengers unto Jerusaiem to certain of the
Pharisees who believed in Christ, but yet held that the law of Moses
came before Him and was, therefore, greater than His teachings.
And among these saints was one named Gershon, who desired to
be a chief among the people and held in esteem because of his
wisdom. So he journeyed unto Antioch in the company of certain
Pharisees, who held with him that the Church was for the few
and not for the many, that it would be corrupted and befouled by
the multitude if they came to believe in Christ and sought to be
members of His Church. Now Gershon and Abinadab were held
in high honour by the Rulers of the Synagogue at Antioch, it being
a town of less repute for learning in the law of Moses than Jerusalem,
the Holy City. ·
THE SECOND PARCHMENT
So it came to pass that one day, when evening had fallen, Peter
was summoned into the presence of these Pharisees, who were
lodging with the Archon, and in their company were the Rulers of
the Synagogue whom they had won to their manner of thinking.
And those who had hearkened, in all humbleness of heart, to the
preaching of the Apostles now spoke sternly unto Peter, declaring
that they would close the doors of the Synagogue to the Gentiles
and to those who believed in Christ, that they would cease from
teaching His Gospel, and would adhere only to the law of Moses,
if Peter did not turn from the Gentiles, cease from seeking them
in their homes from that time forth, and make an ordinance that no
further Greeks, Romans, or other heathens should in Antioch be
received into a Church which was designed for the Jews above
every other nation under the sun.
Then was Peter roused to anger, and he disputed with them,
seeking to show them that the teaching of Christ, when He spoke
of charity, alone should bind them in their dealings with the
Gentiles. Yet they would not cease from threatening disturbance
.and dissension in the Church if be would not yield to them. So
at the last, to save the saints, to preserve their peace, he declared
that he would remain the Apostle of circumcision, and would go no
more among the Gentiles in that city, but speak only to the Jews,
working among them as Paul laboured among the Gentiles.
From that day he went no more with him into the market-place,
and he would not, as the leader of the Church and its Bishop in
that town, go unto certain noble Romans who bade him to
their dwellings so that they might be instructed in the Gospel
of Christ.
And the Rulers in the Synagogue, Gershon and the Archon,
rejoiced because Peter would live no longer with the Gentiles, but
held himself apart, going in only unto his own people.
And lo I when the Sabbath was come, in the presence of the
Elders and the Rulers, Paul charged Peter with a falling away
from charity, and blamed him for refusing to go unto the Gentiles,
who desired to have tidings of Christ from the lips of one who had
known Him. Then Peter made answer that the people of Judrea
were his charge, and that he must, for the sake of the Church in
Antioch, maintain the law of Moses, else there would be dissension,
and the Church would be scattered through the divisions caused
by those who held that they must not in any manner depart from
the rites and observances ordained by Moses.
And Paul made answer : " If thou at one season livest after
the fashion of the Gentiles thou shouldst not seek to compel the
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOl?HAS
Gentiles to live after the fashion of the Jews. For I do read this
as thine intention in this matter.
" It is not meet that the children of men should hunger when
the table is loaded with bread. The Master Christ would have all
men know of the truths He bore unto them. If ye will not permit
the Gentiles to share with you in the belief in Christ Jesus as the
Son of God, the Messiah, then let the law perish, let men live no
longer by rites and observances. Let them live by faith only, for,
of a truth, the law may grow to be a graven image, which ye will
worship, and forget, in your worshipping, the Lord God of our
fathers and the Messiah, the Prince of Life.••
Whereupon there was a great outcry, the Rulers smiting the air
with their hands, and declaring that on the morrow must Paul be
cast out from the Synagogue and from th•e Church. And for a
space Peter strove with them, yet they would not hearken, and the
assembly was .dispersed, the Archon, the Rulers, and the Pharisees
of Jerusalem taking counsel with one another, Peter being among
them, and seeking ever to quell their clamour and to hush the wild
words that fell from their lips.
Some declared that Paul should no longer be permitted to live ;
that in the years that were past he had persecuted the saints,
and now sought to destroy the saints by guil.e, to cause the Church
to perish from within. As the kernel of a nut dies first, so would
the faith of the Jews be first destroyed, and after that all would
shrivel up and perish.
And Peter sought to defend Paul, saying that he had wrought
miracles among the Gentiles, and thus it wa:s shown that the Holy
Spirit had entered into him and he was thertefore the chosen of the
Lord. Those of the Brethren who declared that he should die,
and did accuse him of secret plotting against the Church, were in
danger of Hell fire. For no man may call. his brother "Raca,"
and no man who hath not been filled with the Holy Spirit may
judge another in this haste.
Then the Archon declared that, if Peter was on the side of Paul,
all the devout Jews of Antioch would withdraw themselves from
the Church, and it would thus be destroyed and would be scorned
by all men. For they, the Pharisees, woulld not hold with one
who declared that the law must perish, so that faith might have
its fulfilment.
After many hours of disputation it was determined that Paul
should appear once more before the Elders, and they would decree
that he must teach the law and set it before the tidings of the
Gospel, demanding of all those Gentiles who would be baptised
THE SECOND PARCHMENT
that they must first be circumcised and be known as proselytes,
so that the glory of the ancient faith should increase and all men
yield unto the law of Moses.
Now Barnabas was not of the same tempered metal as Paul,
and his soul was n..uch affiicted with doubts concerning the wisdom
of his fi:iend and brother in Christ. And, at the bidding of Peter,
he reasoned with the penitent of Damascus, and did protest to
him that he had not been one of the Twelve nor had he served
Christ many years, so was he forward in his declaration concerning
faith and the law, and he should hearken to the Elders, who had
been chosen to be first in the Church.
And Paul loved Barnabas, so he would not dispute with him,
holding his peace. Thus it was that the Rulers consented to speak
with Paul once more, for they were led to believe that the persuasion
of Barnabas had caused him to repent of his errors. And, when
he had come to the place of assembly, Peter rose up before the
Rulers and admonished him, demanding that he should ask their
pardon for having, in his anger, cried out that the law of Moses
should perish rather than that the Gentiles should be lost to the
Church.
Peter said: "It is a time of great peril for all Jews. In the years
that are past the Greeks have contended against them at Alexandria.
The Romans sow dissension among us in Judrea, and seek t9
persecute us by subtle means. They sought to set up an image of
the Emperor in our Temple in the past ; they seek ever to destroy
our faith. There are enemies on all sides of us, and, though there
is peace between Jew and Gentile in Antioch, yet we know not how
long this peace will reign. And so it behoveth all Jews to stand by
one another and cherish the faith of their fathers."
Then Paul rose up, demanding that there should be silence until
he had made an end of speaking. And first he as'Ked forgiveness
of them if he had in any manner derided what was to them holy.
"But I do affirm," he declared, "that the Messiah came to save all
men, and, if we lay the burden oftircumcision and of the observances
decreed by Moses on the Greeks and Romans and the people of
other races, then will they turn from our teaching and remain in
darkness.
"Now I went privily to Jerusalem in a past ,time and I lodged
with our br.other in Christ, with Peter, and for many hours I
hearkened unto his teaching, and he hearkened unto my design
that I should go forth among the Gentiles with the tidings.of the
Messiah; and in that time he agreed with me, ttat the Gentiles,
being ignorant of our law and set against many of the rites practised
166 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
by us, should not be compelled to hold with them. For before all
else cometh belief in the Messiah, and in the redemption of men
through Him. I went not forth, therefore, without authority.
Peter was of one mind with me in this matter, and he cannot
deny it."
There was much murmuring among the Rulers and among the
Pharisees, and one among them rose up, saying: "We live in peace
at Jerusalem. We are not persecuted in these times of peril; yet
we may not look for mercy if we thus welcome among us Greeks
and Romans who hold not with us. The High Priest and the
Sanhedrin will use their authority, and seek to afflict us in divers
ways, if Paul thus gathereth all men within the Church. Even
those in Jerusalem at this hour who do not believe in Christ hold in
respect and reverence James the Just, who is chief among us.
" Howbeit, they will hold him no longer in esteem, and they
will not hearken unto him when he preacheth the Word of Christ,
if they learn that he favoureth the doctrine that is taught by the
Apostle of Antioch."
Once more the Rulers admonished Paul, and demanded that
he and those who followed him should yield to them, and baptise
only those Gentiles who were proselytes and believers in the law
of Moses. But he would not hearken unto them, speaking with
heat and fervour ; and so greatly did he anger the Elders that
certain clapped their hands upon his mouth, bidding him hold his
peace.
Then Peter called upon them to lay no hand upon the brother,
and he declared that this matter, being of weighty import, could
not be determined in Antioch. Wherefore he would go up to
Jerusalem, and hold counsel with the Disciples, so that an ordinance
might be given forth that would bind all who were members of the
Church of Christ.
The Pharisees did not like this ruling until they reflected that
they would go unto J ames and John, who dwelt in Jerusalem, and
set them against Paul in this matter, so that the Twelve and their
Brethren would declare an ordinance that would shut the doors of
the Church on those of the heathen who held not with the law
of Moses.
These men, therefore, designed that Paul should remain in
Antioch ; and so they agreed that he might continue to preach
among the Gentiles in that city as it would please him. And Paul,
who knew naught of this snare, was tempted by the rich harvest of
souls in Antioch, and stayed behind so that he might reap the fruits
that were thus spread before him.
THE SECOND PARCHMENT
Peter had no knowledge of their purpose in this favour that they
had seemed to grant the brother. So in parting he blessed him,
and bade him continue to labour even in strange vineyards for
the Lord.
CHAPTER XV
PAUL IS REPUDl.\TED BY HIS FATHER
Now it is needful, so that ye should have understanding of the
council in Jerusalem, that I should write of that earlier journey
when Paul went up to Jerusalem before he took ship with Barnabas
and sailed for Cyprus.
I have told you how these two were blessed by the Rulers of the
Church at Antioch, and how they kept themselves apart from the
people, fasting and praying, so that the Holy Spirit might descend
upon them.
One night the winds of God once more passed through the chamber
in which Paul abode. He perceived the radiance of the Spirit
which floated about him, till, drawing together, it became one
white tlame, and a voice came from the midst of the flame, saying,
"Paul, go thou up to Jerusalem before thou scttest forth upon the
sea; let the Elders-Peter, James, and John-commend thy work,
and set the seal of their belief upon the Gospel that thou shalt
bear unto the Gentiles."
And Paul, who had no thought of such a jeurney, was astonished
for a short space at the counsel that was thus given him. But,
when he spoke of it to Barnabas, the elder brother cried out that
it was a revelation that they must obey, that mayhap there were
matters of high import that the Three-James, John, and Peter
-would impart to them.
There went unto Jerusalem in the company of these twain one
whom Paul loved-Titus. Now Titus was of the kin of Luke, on
the one side, and, on the other, he was of Greece, so he had not
been circumcised and he could not enter into the company of the
devout Jews. He sought to serve Paul, who was ailing at times,
and had to withdraw himself from the company of men, his sic.!,<-
ness being unsightly in their eyes.
In those times, when Luke was not nigh unto Paul, his kinsman,
Titus, served him and cherished him. Now, even in those days
I68 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
tidings had been borne unto certain of the Pharisees who believed
in Moses first and in our Lord Christ as in one who was but the
fulfilment of the law, that Paul went in unto the Gentiles at
Antioch, and lived in the company of the uncircumcised, so they
set a watch upon him when he came unto Jerusalem.
It was reported unto my master, of whom I am the scribe, that
the father of Paul learned that one of his company named Titus
was uncircumcised, and conformed in no manner to the law of
Moses. Other charges were made against Paul to Haran, his
father. ·
And he, being one of the sternest of the Pharisees, causec.l Paul
to come unto him, arid he strove to search his heart, setting him
many questions concerning the law of Moses. In all these matters
Paul made answers that were according to the faith of his fathers.
"Yet thou goest in unto the Gentiles, thou sittest at meat with
them," cried the Elder; "thou dost transgress in thy deeds, yet
in words thou observest the law of Moses that demandeth of our
race that we should hold ourselves apart from the lives of the
Gentiles."
Then Paul declared unto his father, "For many season5 I have,
as thou knowest, held myself apart in Tarsus, preparing myself for
the preaching ·of the Gospel of Christ. And it hath been revealed
to me by the Holy Spirit that I shall fail if I seek to lay the yoke
of the law of Moses upon the Gentiles. I shall but baptise them in
the name of our Lord Jesus. Thus shall I win many to belief in the
one living God."
nen was the old man wrathful, and he declared : " I believe
not in this Holy Spirit, in the mystery of this revelation of which
thou hast spoken. I have sought to give thee freedom in thy
belief. I have set no bridle upon thee, though it grieved me sore
that thou soughtest not a high place in the Sanhedrin, that thou
no more abodest in Jerusalem, and didst cast from thee the heritage
that might have been thine-thy place among the Elders in Israel.
Now do I perceive that thy Jesus, whom thou callest the Christ,
will overturn our laws and sow division among our people. The
hour has come when thou shalt choose between thy father, thy
kin, ana thy Christ.
"If thou goest unto the Gentiles in the company of the uncircum-
cised, and preachest this Gospel of faith, and gatherest within this
new sect those who hofd not with the law of Moses, I shall cast
thee from me, tear thee from my heart as the great wind teareth
the roots of a tree from the ground. Thou shalt have no part nor
lot in my possessions. I shall not, as I have done heretofo~e, give
THE SECOND PARCHMENT
thee moneys so that thou canst live the life of wisdom. Frolll
henceforth, if thou heedest me not, thou shalt labour with thy
hands and thou shalt eat the bread of affliction ; for my curse shall
go with one who, being of my loins, shall turn his face away from
the faith of his fathers, and give himself over to the foul living of
the Gentiles."
Paul was much afflicted in spirit, and he strove with the old man,
entreating him not to lay his curse upon him ; but Haran was as
finn of purpose as was his son, and he would not yield to him con-
cerning this matter. He gave orders to his servants that the doors
of his house should be shut in the face of his godless son.
Even when his daughter entreated him to pardon the one who
would bear his name for ·him, and was of his seed, he would not
yield. So it came to pass that Paul gazed no more ~pon the face
of his father, and it was a great sc>rrow to him. He wept as he
declared unto Titus, in that hour when he was cut off :
" I have given up all for Christ. Do likewise, then mayest thou
come with me across the sea and preach the Word to the people
who are in darkness. The Spirit hath revealed to me that through
faith and not through works, not through the law of Moses, shall
the Gentiles be won for Christ."
And Paul went in unto the three fathers of the Church, unto
]ames, Cephas, and John, and he spoke of the revelation that had
come unto him upon the breath of God in Tarsus, while he studied
the ancient wisdom and the teachings of Christ through many
seasons apart from men.
And these three marvelled at the knowledge that Paul revealed
unto them, and at his sure judgment of men. They had passed
their lives in Judrea, and they knew that they had! not the learning
that would be needful if they would wrestle with the learned among
the Romans and the Greeks.
Then Paul spoke of his desire to win the Gentile ito Christ through
the words of Christ alone. They were of one accord with him, for
they perceived that he had been filled with the Holy Spirit, and
they durst not gainsay one who had been bidden in this manner
to bear the tidings of the Gospel unto the nations who knew neither
Moses nor the Prophets. They gave Paul but one counsel-they
bade him remember that the saints were in great need in Jerusalem.
Many hungered in that time, so they bade him seek gifts and
moneys for the Church at Jerusalem, so that the Brethren should
not perish in those days of need.
I would have ye know that, when the governance of the saints
was devised, it was found that they could not share alike, they
I70 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
could not give up all they possessed to the treasury. It was com-
manded that each man should render some part of his possessions
to the Deacons ; so that, there being such measure within the
common store, no saint might suffer hunger or perish.
But, when the famine fell upon the Jews, money might not buy
food in Jerusalem, and Paul and Barnabas had borne corn in their
train when they journeyed unto Jerusalem from Antioch.
Now Paul assured Peter, James, and John that the faithful would
ever be mindful of their Brethren in Jerusalem; that he would
cause those whom he won for Christ to believe it was above all
things needful that the Church should be one in things of this world,
and in the things of the Spirit.
Then the Apostle of Antioch received the blessing of the Three,
and took his leave of them. And it came to pass that he tarried
a day and a night in Jerusalem because of the hurt that was done
to Titus, a loved brother in Christ. The sister of Paul was the
wife of one Helib, a Pharisee, who had no liking for the saints and
who had set the father of Paul against his son, bearing unto him
tidings of the work of Paul among the Gentiles at Antioch.
So, when this Elder learned that Titus, who was of the company
of Paul, was uncircumcised, and when he learned that his father-
in-law had cast out his first-born, then was he emboldened to seek
out, with certain of his servants, the friend of his kinsman.
They set upon Titus when he stood without the Temple, calling
him an unbelieving dog, smiting him upon the face, binding him
with ropes, and casting him into a ditch without the town.
A traveller heard his lamentation, and took him from the dung-
heap upon which he had·been cast, bearing him unto the lodging
in Jerusalem in which Paul abode.
Then was Paul much angered, and this young Gentile sought
to stay his wrath, saying : " Speak not of this unto thy kin. When
my bruises are healed, let us go hence from Jerusalem, for, if we
tarry, these Pharisees will seek your destruction, and the work of
the Lord will be hindered."
So Barnabas, Paul, and Titus went from the Holy City, much
uplifted in spirit because the Apostles had blessed them, and had
bidden them permit the Gentile, if he was weak in the spirit, to be
absolved from the observances of the law of Moses.
THE SECOND PARCHMENT 171
CHAPTER XVI
PAUL PLEADS THE CAUSE OJ;" THE GENTILES IN SAMARIA
Now I would write of the council and of the third coming of Paul
unto Jerusalem.
The people of Samaria were simple of mind, and they had no
liking for the wise men among the Pharisees and Sadducees, who
were of Jerusalem. And thus it was that they hailed Paul as a
worker of wonders, and were of one accord in their acclamation of
him and of Barnabas, praising God for the works these brothers in
Christ had wrought among the heathen. The tale of their triumph
sped before them, travelling as a bird to the south, and joy was
roused among the saints in Jerusalem because of the zeal of these
Samaritans, because of the marvels that were told concerning the
journeyings of Barnabas and Paul. .
Now the glory of man ever stirreth up the beast in man. Certain
of the Pharisees who hated Paul gathered together and imagined
evil counsel against him. They would confound him with their
learning when he camt unto the Brethren, and they would demand
of the Twelve that the staff of the teacher and preacher should be
taken from a Disciple who had, to their mind, becolll:e one of the
Gentiles and turned from the faith of his fathers.
It was determined, because of the mighty tally of the saints,
that the Elders, the Apostles, and the Brethren should give to
Barnabas and his company greetings in a wide space, in the country
without the city. And Paul, as he prepared himself for this hour
when the whole Church of Christ would welcome him, and hearken
unto him, was filled with gladness, and he forgot the heaviness of
his spirit when he went from Jerusalem with the thought of his
father's curse within his mind, destroying his peace and causing
him to be weary of living.
When the Three-James, John, and Peter-had blessed him,
he lifted up liis voice and spoke unto all the saints who were
assembled about him. And his words were a stumbling-block,
and caused confusion among the Pharisees. For he said unto them:
"I was bidden by James, Cephas, and John to bear the Gospel of
Christ unto the Gentiles ; and when I asked of them whether those ·
of the heathen who were weak in the Spirit should observe the law
of Moses, should be circumcised, they bade me use my own discretion
in this matter, absolving those who were unable to bear the burden
of these rites that are holy in our eyes."
172 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
And lo ! Gershon rose up from the midst of the people, charging
Paul with falsehood, and demanding of the Elders that they should
deny these words of the brother and rebuke him for such evil
speaking.
Howsoever, Peter rose up and declared that Paul did not lie, that
they had determined, because Paul was one who received the Holy
Spirit and was instructed by the Holy One, that he should be free
to bind or loose in all that concerned the law of Moses and the
teachings of the P.rophets.
Then Helib, who was knownio be a kinsman of Paul, spoke with
much heat and bitterness of the sorrow he had brought unto his
father. And he demanded that Paul should be no more chosen
to go among the Gentiles and to teach the Gospel of Christ. For
he was deceived in his belief that·the Holy Spirit had instructed
him on this matter ; it was but the messenger of Satan who had
ensnared him.
Whereupon Barnabas turned unto the people, saying : " The
Spirit hath wrought many miracles through Paul. It caused a
cripple to rise up and walk in Lystra. A sorcerer was smitten with
blindness in Cyprus. Many were healed by Paul in Iconium. And
the multitude were brought unto Christ through the wonder of the
words the Spirit spoke through our beloved brother. There are
Brethren who came with us from Antioch who are prepared to
testily to the works of the Spirit that were wrought through him."
And lo I Paul raised his hand and gazed upon the Pharisees,
asking for silence. They were hushed by the light of his eyes for a
short space, and the people marvelled at the radiance of his counten-
ance; for from it shone the light that cometh from God alone.
And he cried out : " Men and Brethren, who are we that we
should despise the Gentile ? Where are our mighty works ? Have
we shown the Gentiles that we .love them even as our Master Christ
bade us love all men? We have sent unto them teachers, but in
naught else have we served them. The wealthy among these
despised Gentiles have in times past made rich gilts, sending com,
figs, and wine unto the saints who hungered in Jerusalem in the
days of dearth. They have shown us a charity that Christ did
command, and what charity have ye shown them? Ye have not
rendered unto them the goods of this world, neither do ye show them
the charity of the Spirit. Ye will not loose them from one jot or
tittle in the observances of the law.
" Yet they are not fashioned, by reason of the many generations
of the heathen that went before them, to bear the full burden of the
law. Ye would cast them out from the company of the saints as if
THE SECOND PARCHMENT 173
they were dogs. Ye would let them return unto the abominations
of idolatry. Ye would cast them once more into darkness, because
they have not yet reached the full measure of your strength ;
because they have not the heritage of power to practise and observe
that came unto you from our fathers. Think well before ye judge
the Gentiles who believe in Christ. They are as little children, while
ye are like unto grown men. If ye will but have charity they may
in time be led to hold with certain parts ofthe law of Moses. Then,
indeed, shall we of the Church of Christ triumph."
And Paul spake of the zeal of the Galatians and of their turning
away from lust and evil, of their desire to worship but the one God,
to be freed from the bondage of many false gods. But his power to
hold in silence the Pharisees failed him as the fire that had been
kindled within him became spent, the light of his eyes dying, his
body bent with weariness. And there came the warning of sickness
to him, the strange cloud that would gather about him at times.
And, seeing that he was failing, the Pharisees raised up their
voices once more and cried out that he was a blasphemer, seeking
to sow division among the Brethren, to wound and maim the
Church of Christ, seeking to overturn belief in the Most High, and
destroy the faith of the people of Juruea, the chosen race.
A great clamour arose, and for a short space the multitude would
not hearken unto James, who strove to still their crying. An<i
some declared that they would no more believe in Christ if such
teachings were to be given forth in His name. And others disputed
with them, saying," Paul hath spoken truly; we must have patience
with these Gentiles, we must let them grow until they be of the full
measure of man. Let us be charitable and we shall win them."
And, when the saints had lost somewhat of the heat that first
possessed them, they became silent, and hearkened unto the ruling
of the father of the Church.
James spoke unto them, saying: "This teaching of the law of
Moses is a matter of grave import. We may not give judgment
upon it now. We shall pray that the Holy Spirit may come unto
us and reveal the will of God to His people. Dispute not with one
another concerning this matter. For then shall we become a shame
and a byword among our enemies. They will point the finger of
scorn at us. So go in all soberness unto your homes, and leave unto
the Apostles and the Elders the judgment in this matter."
Then James lifted up liis hand and blessed the multitude; and
they obeyed him, going unto their dwellings in all quietness and
holding their peace, speaking not even to their wives of the grave
dissension that had arisen among the Brethren.
174 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
CHAPTER XVII
AFTER MUCH DEBATE PAUL IS GIVEN POWER TO FREE THE GENTILES
FROM THE OBSERVANCES OF THE LAW
AND James, being wise in his knowledge of what swayed the hearts
of men, in the day when the saints assembled together, bade Gershon
and the brother-in-law of Paul first speak of the trouble which had
caused many hearts to burn, and had made certain of the weaker
Brethren to fall away from faith.
Now Paul's brother-in-law was a poor speaker, and he did but
maintain again and yet again that Paul had been corrupted by the
Gentiles, and had lived according to their loose manner ; that he
had been the last and greatest sorrow to his noble father ; that he
was a blasvhemer, and should be cut off from the Church, cast out
from among them.
When he had ended, Gershon spoke as a learned Pharisee and
related unto the multitude the acts of Abraham, Isaac, Moses, and
all the Prophets. And they were wearied by the heaviness of his
tale, for the Spirit was not in him, and he spoke as a Scribe who
recited the text he writeth in a manner that escapeth the ear. For
the thoughts of the Scribe are often far from his writing.
And when Gershon had spoken there arose other Pharisees, and
in their vehement anger they declared that Paul was a malefactor,
and that he sought to destroy the nation of the Jews by striving,
with the guile of the serpent, to uproot the faith of their fathers by
sowing dissension among them in this manner. " Thou art the
tool of the Roman," they cried. " Thou art the curse that cometh
stealthily by night, that ever beareth, by subtle devices, ruin to
our people."
And the multitude did make a hiss at Paul, and their murmuring
had the anger of a crackling ftre in its sound.
Doubt, like a crafty enemy, stole within the hearts of many who
had heretofore steadfastly upheld the Apostle of Antioch in all his
words and doings. So, when Peter raised his hand for silence, he
felt that the whole multitude were set against the words he desired
to utter. Yet he did not falter or fail, for he had rued that hour
in Antioch when it had seemed needful, for the sake of the Church,
tliat he should tum his face away from Paul.
And he spoke unto the saints in this wise·: " In past days, when
I was doubtful, and believed that the law of Moses was greater than
the teaching of Christ, I prayed unto the Lord for guidance. And
THE SECOND PARCHMENT I75
He sent the Holy Spirit unto me and showed me that I might judg~
no man, common or unclean." And Peter spoke of the vision that
had been granted unto him, and of Cornelius and those Gentiles
of his company. These had been filled with the Spirit, and had
spoken in many tongues. These had prophesied and praised God,
yet were they uncircumcised, and they would not conform to the
law of Moses.
"The Gentiles cannot bear the burden of works," cried Peter.
" They are not of our race, and we may not ask them to conform to
what hath been too hard for many Jews. I would let you read the
secrets of my heart. I would open all the chambers of my life to
you. I do in this hour declare that the burden of the law hath been
too heavy for me. If I fail, wherefore should I demand of the
Gentiles that they should practise what hath been beyond my
strength ? "
And there were many in the multitude who were won by this
confession of the saint-by his humility, by the manner in which he
had laid bare .to them the secrets of his heart. For it was the
custom with some of the Jews to crush down into the silence those
weaknesses which had caused thein to fail many times in the observ-
ances 41 the Temple. And they had oft buried their shame as- a
man burieth his gains in the earth, so that no man may count them
and gaze upon them repro;tchfully.
Now James called on Barnabas to recount the tale of his
journeyings among the heathen. And first he spoke of Paphos,
and of that night when evil men who worshipped the foul Aphrodite
had bound himself and Mark unto the pillars in the temple of
the goddess, and had committed abominations in their presence,
threatened them with the murder of their eyes, so that they might
no more look upon the light of the sun. And how God had sent a
quaking of the earth, causing the temple to be riven asunder,
causing the pillars to fall. And how He had thus delivered His
chosen with a strong hand, casting out the evil men, confounding
them when they were in the midst of their abominations.
And Barnabas told of the dryness of the earth in !conium, and
of the miracle of the water which had been wrought through him.
He spoke of the zeal of the Phrygians and the Galatians, of their
simple faith in Christ Jesus, and of their charity to one another.
"We who are Jews hold ourselves to be purer and nearer to God
than any other people," was his word," yet we are filled with malice
and uncharitableness. Though we have within us the learning
and the wisdom of the generations of the Prophets, we contend with
one another, and are farther from grace than many of the Gentiles
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
of Galatia, who have become members of the Church of Christ and
are brothers in the Lord."
Paul, who had been ailing, now rose up in the midst of the
Brethren. And those who looked on him whispered to one another
that death was casting its shadows about him, for he had been
shaken and spent since the marks upon his body had opened and
his blood had flowed forth.
These marks were not hid by his robe and his sandals. He
spoke softly in the first moments, like one who is afar off on some
mountains and haileth his brother in the valley. Yet all the
people were still ; they whispered not to one another ; they were
in awe of the ghastliness that was imaged in the countenance of this
Apostle.
Howbeit, as he continued speaking, his voice drew nigh unto
them once more. It was no longer a far-off cry. He was like unto
one speaking in the midst of them, and shaken with the violence
and power of a great spirit.
He spoke of the days in Antioch, in Pisidia, and of the people
without number who would gather about him and hearken unto
him, so that there were times when those who were not nigh unto
him heard no sound, but were content to wait and gather up the
whispered words of his teaching passed from mouth to mouth.
And Paul caused those who were tender of heart to weep when
he spoke of the aflliction of his body, and of the manner in which
the stranger in Lystra gave him shelter and succour. "And these
devout persons," he cried, "who are thus filled with the love that
is of Christ, ye would cast from you, because they are not circum-
cised, .because they worship not according to our manner. It is
by faith and by the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that ye will
win the Gentile. And, at a later time, when he hath greater
knowledge, he will seek to observe the law of Moses. But ye may
not compel men ; ye cannot lay upon them what seemeth in their
eyes a bondage ; ye can but win them by example. Ye will never
win them by threats or by commands."
And he told them of the man who had been healed in Lystra.
He spoke of the stoning in that town, and of his own death, and of
that grievous hour when Stephen had appeared unto him, and had
bidden, him once more enter within the clay. For he must, in
affiiction, in suffering, in perils by sea and by land, accomplish the
work which he had caused to be wrested from Stephen by his early
dying in the bloom of his years. And Paul confessed his shame, and
declared his purpose to win for Christ the heathen for whom Stephen
had first been chosen by the Spirit.
THE SECOND PARCHMENT
And the people cried out that they believed in the work and
the words of their brother in Christ. They were with him in all
matters, and he should not be bound by the Pharisees. Then did
Paul, who had held these people through the invisible power of his
Body of Light and through the Spirit, fall back and lie as one who
is so spent naught can raise him up or break the spell of his
weariness.
James perceived that Paul was overwrought, and that he could
not dispute further with his enemies. So the chief among the
Twelve gave his judgment forthwith. And he declared that Paul
would.receive the blessing of the Twelve, and that they would, in
certain matters, give him power to free the Gentiles, but that in
all that pertained to purity of living they should be bound if
they were to be baptised and become members of the Church of
Chric;t.
So it came to pass that the Apostle of the West was justified,
and his enemies confounded, in that hour. And the saints were
directed to pray for Paul and Barnabas when they set forth once
more to labour among the heathen and those who knew not God.
Me
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
CHAPTER I
PAUL TOLD TO CO TO PREACH IN MACEDONIA :: THE BRETHREN
CONVERSE CONCERNING THE BODY ON THE VOYAGE TO NEAPOLIS
I WOULD on this eve show you how the door was opened to the
nations of the West by the Apostle of Antioch.
It was on this wise. Paul, Silas, and Timothy bore unto the
people of Phrygia and Galatia the decrees of the Twelve. They
assembled the Brethren together in the cities, Elders were elected,
and they taught the Gentiles according to the word of the Master.
Now Paul desired, above all things, to go unto Ephesus, where
many worshipped false gods, and where the Jews fell away from
the faith of their fathers ; but he would not seek out this city until
the Holy Spirit had spoken unto him, until the Hour of the Watch
had been kept.
I have told thee that there is given to each man an invisible
shape, a Body of Light, and, if the man willeth '.vith all his might,
he may cast forth the shape of light, and the Great Spirit will enter
therein and manifest himself unto the man.
Now PaUl had in his company Silas and Timotheus, and he
bade them keep the Hour of the Watch with him, so that he might
know the will of the Spirit. At his bidding, they kneeled and
joined hands in prayer, in a quiet chamber, far from men. And
Paul fell into a swoon, lying as one dead, casting forth his shape of
light, while the Brethren prayed without speech, and silence
gathered about them, as the silence in the heart of a lake.
Now Timotheus had not ever before kept the Hour of the Watch,
so he was afraid. But dread passed from his soul when the stilln~
passed, and when the watchers heard the sweeping of great winds
about the house. And there was the sound as of the roaring of
seas in their ears, so that wonder and awe smote them, and they
cast themselves upon their faces before the flame that burned
above the head of Paul, who lay wrapped in his swoon, as still as
the rock in the earth.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
And, after a short space, all sound died. The flame faded, and the
watchers raised their faces from the ground once more.
Timotheus gazed at Paul, and whispered unto his brother, "The
wind hath bound his soul up in her wings." But Silas made a sign
unto him, signifying that there should be no word uttered until
the sleeper waked.
And there came a change in that chamber. The light fled once
more, and the accursed thing did enter therein. And the Brethren,
feeling its presence, wrestled with it and prayed, and they fought
with the shadow of an older night than the night of the sun.
For when man seeketh what is good, the Hosts of Evil are ever
roused, and do contend against him.
But the prayers of Silas and Timotheus guarded Paul in that
dread hour, and when he stirred once more all evil had passed from
the chamber.
And he spoke unto them, saying : " I was caught up into that
Heaven where reigneth the unsearchable mystery, and word hath
been given me which is strange indeed. I may not preach in Asia,
and the Holy One hath bidden me hasten westwards, not halting
by the way, or seeking to preach the Word unto the people."
And on the morrow, when they set forth at the bidding of the
Spirit, Paul was sore cast down and perplexed, for the Hour of the
Watch had not borne unto him the tidings he desired, and he knew
not what lay before him.
But Timotheus and Silas were light of heart. Joy came to them
as the bird's song in the morning, and it was with them all the day,
abiding in their memory.
And thtiy journeyed westwards and then northwards ; and still
was Paul sore cast down and perplexed in mind, for he knew naught
of the deep purpose of the Spirit.
And, as they journeyed in haste, the heat of the sun overcame him
and sickness fell upon him, that old enemy that had tormented him
through many seasons. Then he prayed unto the Lord to put an
end to his doubts, to send him some counsel that would cause the
darkness to pass from his mind. In his sickness he thought of Luke,
who had tended him before in his joumeyings. Howbeit, Luke had
gone from his company, and in those early days he had not been
much with him. But now Paul yearned for this healer who could
comfort him with his speech as well as with his cooling herbs.
And, because no word was given unto them, Paul determined to go
to Bithynia and preach the Gospel in that region.
So when the sickness had left him, they set forth upon the road
to this province; and, in the heat of the day, they sought shelter
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
and rest. In that hour Paul could not sleep ; he bethought him of
his backslidings in other days ; and he pondered upon his past
wickednesses, wondering whether it was the will of the Lord that he
should no more preach His Gospel to the Gentile. The fear that he
was not worthy possessed his soul, giving him no rest. So he
roused his companions, bidding them set forth with him upon their
journey into Bithynia.
And, when Paul faced the road, he perceived one that barred his
path. Tall and straight was this man, gentle was his face, and on
it was a strange peace, as of one who had lived and suffered all the
sorrows of man since the days of Adam.
And this figure stood between Paul and the road to Bithynia.
And the saint cast himself down in the dust, crying out, "Master,
Thou hast come unto me once more, Thou hast answered my prayer
though I am all unworthy."
Timotheus and Silas saw naught, but they knew that Paul was
in the presence of some Holy One.
And he was charged to tell no man of this vision, and a voice
spoke, saying : " Paul, this is not the last time I come unto thee.
I bear thee a charge. Thou shalt preach unto a fierce people, a
people of deep speech, of a stammering tongue. And they shall
hav.e understanding of thee. Set not foot in Bithynia, but go west-
ward as thou hast been commanded."
And the figure vanished-there was but the stillness of noonday
about them.
The saint spoke of the charge that had been given him, so they
turned back once more upon the road; and, when evening came, they
halted in the evil town of Artemaia, and that night they lodged
there, but they had been bidden not to preach in those parts. Yet
was Paul sorely tempted when, on the morrow, he perceived the
people going in procession to their goddess, and bearing images of
her upon their breasts.
Paul besought the Lord to permit him to go among this multitude.
And he prayed in the silence, but no voice answered, no word came.
For the Spirit goeth where it listeth, and no man may summon it, or
tell the hour of its coming. He can but open his heart to receive it.
It came to pass that the company of the saints shook the dust of
this town off their feet, and they travelled westward, bearing letters
to certain Jews in the region of Troas.
And when Paul perceived the sea the doubt as to his work came
upon him once more. Many times had he prayed for light since the
road to Bithynia had been barred to him. But no light was given,
nor could he enterinto that state beyond time and space andmemory
r86 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
again, for the power was not with him ; and :vainly had he, in the
company of Silas and Timotheus, kept the Hour of the Watch in
Artemaia.
Now the Brethren were weary; and so they were in heavy sleep,
resting in a barn in the town of Troas, when Paul perceived a change
in the darkness about him. And the eyes of his inner being were
opened, and there stood before him the one for whom he had greatly
yearned, the physician who had tended him in a past time.
Yet he was strange in his manner, and his body and shape seemed
light as air, and not solid as the flesh of man.
And Paul gave him glad greetings, but, when he would have taken
his hands, Luke drew from him, saying : " I visit thee in sleep,
bearing the messag'e of my people. Come over into Macedonia and
help us. It is in that region the work of the Lord awaits ye.
Behold, this is the bidding of the Spirit."
And, as the words were uttered, Luke passed hence, and a deep
sleep overcame Paul, so that it was not until the morrow that he
waked to the new charge that had been delivered unto him.
When he went forth from the sleeping-place, the master of the
house came unto him, saying, " There is one without who seeketh
thee, and would hold speech with thee."
Then was Paul led into the presence of Luke, of the one whom he
had desired above all others in his sickness ; and, when they had
given each other greeting, Paul asked the saint if he had been with
him in the hours of the night.
The saint made answer that he had come unto Troas from
Macedonia, and that he had no knowledge of Paul and the Brethren
till that very hour when one of his kin had spoken of the strangers
who lodged with Sheva the Jew. And, learning their titles, and
learning also that they had come from Antioch, he had sought
them forthwith.
And when Paul spoke of his dream, Luke was much amazed,
perceiving in it the guidance of the Holy Spirit. In that very hour
they determined they would take ship for Macedonia, and seek to
preach the Gospel to the Gentiles in that land.
They spoke of their design to Sheva, and asked him to give them
counsel concerning the ships that traded and came and went between
Macedonia and Troas, and whether he had kin in Greece and would
give them letters unto those who were of his race.
Howbeit Sheva, though he believed in Christ, desired that they
should not preach the Gospel in those lands, but that they should
abide in Troas. So he uttered dark speech concerning Greeks and
Macedonians and the many evil practices of these Gentiles.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
Then was Luke roused to wrath, and he spoke •with bitterness to
this brother, saying: "The people of Athens are evil; they are like
unto the children of Israel, who raised up gods of gold and wor-
shipped them in the ancient days. Many are the images they have
set up, and foul are the lives of this people. But the men of
Macedonia yearn for God and desire a teacher, one who will bear
unto them the truths that were hidden until Christ came into the
world and revealed them unto us. You are unjust and speak
falsely if you contend that the people of Macedoni2L are like unto the
Greeks who are of Athens."
And Luke continued speaking with such heat that Sheva was
overcome and was shamed, so that he sought out .a shipmaster who
served him ; and he bade this man bear the Brethren in his vessel
unto Neapolis, and that he should treat them wiith all honour, as
they were the guests of Sheva.
As the J ew owned in part the vessel of the shipmaster, he might
not be gainsaid. And the Brethren gave thanks unto this merchant,
bidding him farewell ; and, because he was cast down at their not
tarrying in that region, they promised that one of them should come
unto Troas at a future time and spread the teaching of the Gospel
among the Jews in that town.
On another eve I would tell ye of the words the Brethren uttered
concerning the worship of idols, concerning the tllree orders of life
in the body, concerning that grace that winneth man from the beast
and the body, persuading him to pass from that death ye call life,
that torment when the soul continually yieldeth itself up to the fret
of being. to the pains of the flesh.
The Brethren shall talk of that putting on of Christ, of that
loosing of the garment of mortality, so that, even though it still
may cover you, it may not confine or restrain you, bind you down
so that you are a prey to every ill, to every sorrow. For it is
possible that man may win to the joy of the Spirit, to that
peace that passeth understanding, while he beareth the burden of
the body.
Yet is the burden, through that freedom from what is carnal,
light as the air about the drifting swallows.
Now all boded well for the travellers. The sea was smooth and
dark, and the wind in no way unfavourable. The sun smiled upon
them, and peace reigned in the hearts of the Brethren ; and Silas,
Timothy, and Paul gathered about Luke and spoke with him con-
cerning the call that had come unto them to preach the Word to
the Gentile. They questioned him concerning his design in coming
unto Troas from his own land.
.£88 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
And he made ·answer, "I have long desired that the Gospel
should be home unto my people. I have watch~d them these
many days, and I have perceived that they yearned for the truth,
yet they could not find it ; for they are living in the darkness of
ignorance, in the kingdom of the blind.
" I prayed unto my God daily and nightly that the Word of the
Spirit should be borne unto them, that they should be redeemed
from sin and from this bondage of ignorance. I am slow of speech,
I have no words when I face the multitude, or I should have spoken
boldly unto my people concerning Christ. There are few Jews in
Philippi, yet they are devout, and they will be well inclined
towards you.
" But those of my people whose need is sore are Gentiles, and I
have heard them speak of the breaking up of this old world, of its
passing away into the shadows because of the evil that increaseth
and waxeth wherever men are in great numbers.
" And so weary was I of the speech of this people, I prayed with
all my might for guidance. And behold, one morning as I arose
there was cast into my mind the purpose that I should journey into
Antioch in Syria and seek out the saints. I feared that they might
not come unto my people, because the name of corruption hath
been set upon them and upon all Greeks. Yet, so urgent was the
voice within me, I could not be unmindful of it, and I took ship for
Troas, thinking that I might seek out Sheva and ask his counsel.
For he hath been in Antioch and in Jerusalem, and he believed in
the Master."
And Paul questioned Luke concerning all the nations in those
lands to which they were bound. Luke assured him that he would
be welcome in Philippi, because many perceived .the decay of men
in tha.t city, and they, believing that the end of the world was at
hand, would hearken to the words of Paul and Silas.
" So shall ye prevail with them," he said. " They yearn for the
truth and the light. Their learned men possess not the store of
knowledge that is the inheritance of the teachers in Athens. So
they will not hinder you with cunning speech, with false subtilties,
nor will they twist about you the rope of windy discourse.
" They have open hearts · and the desire for knowledge. Ye
shall be received with all honour; but the minds of the learned
men of Athens will be closed against you. Go not unto them, for
they hold that they are the salt of the earth, that all knowledge is
theirs. So, if ye contend against them, their words will be as grapes
of gall.
.. They have no belief, no faith in aught save the evil of this
THE THIRD PARCHMENT r8g
world ; their speech will be as the poison of dragons, if ye seek to
spread the tidings of the Gospel in their city.
"And the multitude, who have not their knowledge, are delivered
over to the worship of images, and to the foulness of living which is
begotten by the worship of shapes of stone, of marble and ebony
and gold."
Then Silas cried out : " Let us not abide in Macedonia ; let us
go forthwith unto Athens." And he turned unto Paul in great
eagerness, saying : " Master, thou shalt destroy their altars, break
their images, and cut down their groves. Thus it is written in the
Scriptures, and thus it shall again be fulfilled, so that once more
testimony shall be rendered unto the living God.
"Oft-times I have heard tell of the abominations that are prac-
tised by the people of Athens. Certain of the Jews from Athens,
who come up to Jerusalem, have told me that this mighty city is
like unto Sodom in its wickedness, that all within it have turned
their faces away from God. There is no health in them ; they
seek after the lusts of the flesh, and mock at those who would live
chastely and follow virtuous ways."
Now Paul had hearkened in silence to the Brethren, and he scarce
seemed to heed them, so still was he, his eyes set upon the dark
waters and the passing birds.
Howsoever, he lifted up his hands, casting them towards the
west, saying: "All the Gentiles live in sin; not one among them
is pure. We may not judge the people of Athens before we judge
ourselves, for few even among the Jews possess the grace of the
Spirit, that pure loveliness that is of God alone. All have sinned,
for it is in their nature to sin. Journey back with me unto the
beginning of time, when God made the world and saw that it
was good.
" Three orders of beings He fashioned. First were there the
stones and metals ; these ye may perceive, yet they do not beget,
neither do they grow or die. The second order begetteth, and
groweth, and perisheth after its day is overpast. The plants and
the beasts are of this kind. These have no reason within them ;
they are vacant of mind and without understanding. To the
third order hath been given a glittering sword, and it may cleave
in twain the one who wields it, utterly destroying him. Man is its
bearer, and this sharp weapon is the knowledge of good and evil,
which hath pursued him through all the years, through all the
generations. It is his torment and his joy.
"Now man is not one, but two, by reason of the peculiar gift
that God hath given him. The beast hath no knowledge of evil,
rgo THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
for he hath not understanding ; so is the beast not the prey of the
Evil One, as man is his prey.
"It hath been written that knowledge increaseth sorrow., That
is only when man is carnally minded, when he is given over to the
lusts of the flesh ; and in these last days the flesh and the body
wholly govern the man. Wherefore God hath chosen this time
to send His only Son into the world, that men might, through His
death upon the cross, be freed from the bondage of death and
become heirs of the Kingdom of God.
" For all are gone astray, all are governed by the beast that is in
them ; and only through the Gospel of our Master Christ may they
be freed from this death. Through it they may learn so to subdue
the evil-of which they make a counterpart in their graven images
-that they become unmindful of pain and fret and every ill, that
they so master themselves that they enter into the sure peace of
the Spirit. And then to them the body is naught, for the grace of
God is wholly theirs, causing them to be born again ; causing them,
while still upon the earth, to be in no way subject to the creature;
to be the children of light, partakers of the Kingdom of Heaven."
Now Timothy was well instructed in the teaching of certain of
the learned Greeks, and he spoke unto Paul, saying: "Wouldst
thou have us hold in shame our bodies? There are some in these
lands to which we are bound who cry out against the vileness of
their bodies, even though they know naught of God. If, in truth,
our bodies are a shame to us, then should we, according to such rule,
slay ourselves, and thus free the Spirit from the chain that may
bind it to Satan."
And Paul made answer : " Hold not your body in shame unless
it be foul through evil doing. Command it, reGarding it as being
given for your trial, so that ye may wrestle with it and so order it
that your spirit is its master and not its slave."
And he continued, saying: "I have learned from travellers
that the multitude in these lands, even in their idolatry, even in
their uncleanliness and fornication, seek ignorantly after God.
But so fearful are they, they see in all the elements gods, and what
they perceive are but vain images. They cannot sift the false
from the L-ue. Yet is their desire to know what is of God, and
even their learned men would fain have understanding of the
Creator of all things.
"They search for God through meditation and in solitary days.
They know not that through faith and through love for their
neighbour they shall find Him. It is my purpose to gather together
in each city both Jew and Gentile, and cause them to worship the
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
Master, cause them to break down the wall that standeth between
my people and those of other nations. For the Kingdom of God
may only be drawn to earth if all are g_athered within His Covenant.
And, if many abode without, then would it be hard for those within
to fashion and build the Kingdom of Christ, which is the sign of the
Spirit, as the Empire of Rome is the sign of the body."
And now the Brethren were all hushed, for the tints of the sea
were darkened, and they perceived land upon its outermost edge.
So they knelt together, offering up a prayer in silence, asking for
guidance in this new world that would soon be spread before them.
CHAPTER II
THE TEACHING AT PHILIPPI AND THE SLANDER OF THEMESIUS
ALL the night the vessel abode nigh to the island of Samothrace,
and on the morro"' they sailed unto the mainland ; and in Neapolis
they set their feet upon the earth once more. It was a town of
no great size, and Paul would not abide within it. For his zeal
had eaten him up with the desire to spread the tidings of the Master
in the famed city of Philippi.
Few Jews abode in that town. It was no great mart for trading,
and those children of Judrea who were of it had forgotten much
that concerned their faith and their race. Yet was this well, for
they were not minded to dispute with Paul. And one named
Elkana gave them glad greeting when he learned they were of
Jerusalem.
He was one who had workers for hire, and he took Silas into his
service, yet he had no place for Paul and Timothy. Howbeit they
were of good heart. For this old man, who was a friend of Luke,
sheltered them in those first days, though he could not give them
work, and they did not lie upon the cold ground 'neath the stars,
which might have been their lot ; they possessed naught save the
coats they wore, their staff and script, as Christ had commanded
them.
And they went softly among the people, seeking those who might
hearken to their words ; and these they summoned to a quiet glade
nigh to the river. There they spoke concerning the Messiah, and
their tidings were strange in the ears of the Macedonians.
And certain women came to hearken to their teaching. For
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
great was their freedom in this city. They might come and go
and trade with men, and they were resolute, firm of speech, and
without fear. Paul was troubled at first by the boldness of their
manners ; they questioned him as a learned Pharisee might ques-
tion, setting before him hard sayings. And he rebuked them for
this unseemly hardihood, saying : " Ye speak of matters that
neither slaves nor women can understand. Ye should not in any
manner be froward, seeking in humbleness of heart to hearken in
silence to the Word of the Lord."
A woman named Lydia, who wore rich garments and came unto
Paul in the company of her slaves, made answer: "Master, how
may we know the manner in which we shall measure our humble-
ness, if we are not permitted to question thee and obtain from thee
the store of wisdom that thou bearest within thee from J udrea.
All my days have I longed for the teacher who would give unto us
the truth concerning God and the life to come. Therefore do not
spurn us ; but be patient, so that we may become the followers of
this Jesus whom ye call the Christ."
And Paul perceived that this woman had far greater understand-
ing than the women of Tarsus or of Judrea. She had learned from
a Rabbi much that concerned the practices of the Jews and their
belief in Jehovah. So he rebuked her no more, but sought to speak
of all the sayings and doings of Christ which he had harvested in
his heart.
There was a man named Themesius, who came unto the place of
prayer by the river. He was a Macedonian who was much in the
company of the Romans, and he hearkened unto Paul, not because
of the teaching of the saint, but because Lydia sought him out and
spoke of the marvel of his words.
Now Themesius desired Lydia in marriage, for he coveted her
many possessions, and she had been inclined unto him until the
Brethren made entry into Philippi.
From the hour she hearkened unto Paul and Silas she was, to the
mind of this Macedonian, bewitched. She would talk of naught
but the words of the strangers. She would not in any manner
please Themesius, dealing with him as if he were a stock or a stone.
So he was greatly set against the saints, and plotted their undoing.
Howbeit, all spoke well of them; and so great was the press on
the Sabbath, when they taught by the riverside, that it was needful
that they should continue their teaching when evening was come,
not ceasing till dumbness from much speaking and a heavy weari-
ness fell upon them.
Now Themesius went unto Elkana and spoke evilly concerning
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 193
the saints, telling him that they came into that city to trouble the
minds of the people, so that they might be set against the Romans
and against their customs.
And when Elkana would not credit his words he bade him attend
the gathering by the river on the Sabbath. And there, after Paul
had spoken for a short space, Themesius sought to set a snare of
words for him, saying : " Master, thou speakest of one God and of
His Son, Jesus, who came into the world to redeem man from sin,
and I have learned from thee that He was hanged upon a tree, and
that it was under the rule of the Roman that He was thus done to
death. Thou wouldst have us believe that God came to earth in
the guise of a malefactor, and, further, thou wouldst set upon high-
above the Emperor-one who died this shameful death. Thou
deniest, therefore, that the Emperor is the God of all the earth ?
Thou seekest to overturn the rule of the Mighty One, before whom
all should bow. Ye are in very truth blasphemers and mockers."
Then Silas arose and made answer, saying: "Pilate, the Roman
Governor, spoke with Jesus our Master, and he greatly marvelled
at the wisdom of His words. He was so smitten by His judgment,
so stirred by His presence, that he commanded all who were about
him to withdraw.
" And a slave, who watched, hath related unto us that this
Governor bowed himself before the Master, crying out, ' Of a truth
God is with Thee. Thou art holy. Thou are not of this earth.
I would beseech Thee, therefore, to use of Thy great power and
vanish from this chamber, passing through the multitude, and
shaking the dust of Jerusalem from off Thy feet.
" ' These Priests and Rulers are jealous of Thee, and if I do not
please them they will raise up such tumult among the Jews that
blood will be shed, and I shall be a shame among my own people
and will suffer at their hands.'
"And Jesus, our Master, bade Pontius Pilate to be of good cheer,
for it was written that He should give His life as a ransom for many,
and therefore the Roman should not withhold Him, but should
surrender His body to those jealous men who desired His life. For
the clay of the body was naught, and through its torment would the
Scriptures be fulfilled.
"Then was Pilate bewildered in mind, for he perceived that Jesus
was of God, and he could not understand what was to him a riddle
of words. He took counsel with certain other Romans who were
of his following, and then he went before the people and declared
that Jesus was a just man and innocent of evil doing. And, so
that the blood of this man, who was without sin, should not be laid
Nc
194 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
to his count, he washed his hands in the presence of those who
demanded that Christ should be crucified."
And Silas spoke of the rising of the Master on the third day from
the tomb, of His exhortation to the Twelve when He came among
them ; and he spoke of the miracles which had won all the hearts of
the people-miracles wrought by Him before fear possessed the
Rulers- and this fear, being the seed of jealousy, had caused them
to seek the death of the Master.
Here did Paul-take up the word, and declared unto the people that
it was needful that ]esus, the Son of God, should die for them. Only
through this sacrifice might they be redeemed from death and Hell.
And the Philippians were much moved when Paul spoke of the
pardon for all that Christ had borne unto men. They pressed
eagerly about the saints, and Themesius perceived that he had
failed to ensnare the Brethren. Then was he angered ; he shot out
a lip at Paul and Silas, deriding them, flinging base words at them,
declaring that they were traitors who sought the undoing of the rule
of the magistrates, and that they should be cast forth from the town.
Certain of the people turned cold brows upon him, but others
wavered, drawing away and murmuring among themselves; and
one of them was Elkana. He was a man with a fretful heart, and
he feared lest he had erred in giving shelter to these strangers.
So he plucked Themesius by the sleeve, drawing him apart and
questioning him concerning his knowledge of these three who lodged
in his dwelling.
And Themesius sought with slander and lies, that were twisted as
a serpent's body, to set the old man against the saints. And he
caused such dismay and dread to enter into the mind of Elkana that
he promised to close his doors to these strangers.
CHAPTER III
L'YDIA AND SILAS : MEDITATION OVER PHILIPPI : THE BRETHREN
FIND SHELTER WITH A SLAVE
Now when the people who gathered about Paul and Silas were
dispersed, there still stayed in their presence certain of the women
who had hearkened unto the Brethren when they first taught on the
Sabbath by the riverside.
Lydia and Syntiche were among these devout persons, and Lydia
THE THIRD PARCHMENT rgs
was filled with zeal. Themesius had kindled the torch of faith
within her. His words, which }le had designed for her beguiling,
for the leading of her away from the saints, did but win her and bind
her the more closely to the doctrines taught by them.
Now she desired to find favour in their sight; for she believed
that they bore with them the teaching that would heal the souls
of all men and preserve the Macedonians from the decay and
from the corruption that were stealthily spreading among them.
She asked of Paul what were the chief virtues, those that Jesus,
his Lord, commended. And he made answer : " Charity and love.
More beautiful are these than wisdom, more beautiful even than
the respect and duty which are still held in much esteem by
certain of the Greeks and Romans."
Then was Lydia rejoiced in heart, and she bade the saints unto
her dwelling, where was set out food and raiment ; and these, she
told the saints, were set apart by her for the poor.
And behold, her gates were opened unto them ; and the beggars
pressed within, each man and woman who had naught receiving his
share when the servant of this good woman had borne testimony
to their need.
And Paul learnt that when Lydia dwelt in Thyatira she had been
instructed in the faith of the Hebrews, and she had desired to
fdllow out their observances. In many things she was ignorant,
and she had confused certain of their practices, but she had drawn
from what knowledge she had obtained the sure belief that she
should render unto the poor the firstfruits of her possessions.
In those days, when she dwelled at Thyatira, she had no great
possessions, but she was a skilful needlewoman, and she had
perceived that the colours of many of the cloths that were fashioned
into garments perished. So she sought, in the study of herbs, in
the study of juices, to devise some means whereby richness of hue
could be procured for the raiment of the Greeks, they being a people
who delighted in joyful apparel.
And it came to pass that Lydia communed with certain of the
weavers in her city. After much searching she was able to procure
the purple that the people of Macedonia loved, but, because of its
costliness, cannot obtain unless they possess great wealth or much
treasure.
Then did Lydia prosper; and, though she gave of the firstfruits
of herlabour to the poor, yet her possessions and herslaves increased.
And she and her husband went unto Philippi, where they hired
workers who were skilful in the weaving of cloths, and in the
colouring of the robes and tunics that were worn in those days.
196 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Howbeit, there cometh ever, as the companion of joy in the life
of man, a dark brother whose name is sorrow; and he is to all as the
shadow is to the body. And though for a while ye take no note of
it, yet shall ye, in some hour when the light passeth, perceive this
dark brother of tears.
So, when Lydia had dwelt but for a season in Philippi, her
husband, whom she loved, sickened and died. Then was she
distraught, and only the joy of her charity could console her for
this grievous sorrow.
The passing of her beloved led her to desire the more earnestly
knowledge of the world to come, of the life everlasting. And
behold, the saints bore unto her that wisdom, that sure hope for
which she had greatly yearned.
When the beggars were all gone from her dwelling Silas blessed
her, telling her that she observed the teachings of the Master Christ
and was in truth His faithful servant. Then did they take their
leave of her so that they might seek out Luke.
And, having come to this brother, they spoke with him concerning
the fervour of the Macedonians. And they were exceedingly glad
because the Lord had opened the eyes of this people, and there was
the promise of a goodly harvest to be gathered from among them
for the service of our Lord Jesus Christ.
The saints went unto a high place nigh the city, where they took
counsel with one another concerning the Church they would raise up
in that town, and concerning those who were of good report, who
might become Elders and Rulers if the Spirit so willed it. Then,
when all was determined, silence gathered about them, and they
fell into a holy muse.
The evening was fair, the sun like somo:: gorgeous hird spreading
its wings of gold about Philippi. And, gazing upon the roofs of
the houses, the streets, the glinting streak of the river, Luke cried
out, "It is a city of beauty, a city to catch the heart I "
And Paul softly admonished him, saying : " This city is as thy
love. It is dear to thee as the hole in the hills is to the fox, as the
nest to the young bird. Yet thou shalt, with the passing of the
years, give of thy love to all the cities of men, not holding one dearer
than another, seeing, even in the evil towns, beauty, and finding,
among the most wicked of men, nobleness of heart."
Paul spoke further, saying : " I seek not to rebuke thee for this
pride of thine in Philippi,for still Tarsusis dear to me above all other
cities. And I am weak in the flesh when my mind turneth towards
it, and I yearn for it, desiring to live in that town of wondrous
learning, where the wise commune with one another, where there is
THE THIRD PARCHMENT I97
much that would rejoice the heart. Yet ·it is needful that I should
not abide in any place, but that all my days should be spent in
journeyings to and fro, for short is the term of my life and great is
the work that lies before me. There are times when I fear that my
flesh shall fail, that I shall be no true husbandman of the Lord's."
They spoke no more with one another, seeking the road to the
dwelling of Elkana. For the night was gathering about Philippi,
and their host desired ever that his doors should be closed at sunset.
Howbeit, when they came unto his house they could not enter
within it. All was fast shut, and no voice .nade answer when they
called. They were perplexed and dismayed, and turned about,
seeking tidings from a neighbour who was also a Jew.
And he said unto them: "Elkana hath given me this command
to bear to you. Ye shall no more enter within his house, nor shall
ye sit at his board. For he hath learned that ye seek to overthrow
what is the rule and custom of this city. Ye will cause trouble,
and tumult will arise within its borders if ye go not hence. He
hath learned many evil things concerning you. So let you not
abide in this street, but leave us in peace, for we would not have
the ordinances of our people, nor the rule of the Magistrates, troubled
by you."
Now were the saints disturbed in mind. They feared that some
enemy sought their undoing. And Luke, who dwelt with one of
his kin, could not offer them shelter, for the dwelling was strait and
narrow. Yet they were in no way provoked because they had no
lodgment for the night. "The stars shall be our candles," declared
Timothy ; " we shall suffer no hurt if we rest without the town
among the olives."
And lo I as they passed down the street one came l1Ilto them in
mean attire, and cast ~elf before them, saying : " I have
hearkened unto you, and I have believed in your words of truth,
and your speech concerning all being one in Christ Jesus hath
caused me great gladness of heart. For your Christ is therefore
the God of both bond and free.
"And now, masters, if I have found favour in your sight, I
would beseech you to share with me my shelter and the straw
whereon I lie. I am but the slave of a merchant, yet shall ye in
no way suffer hurt if ye deign to abide within the sleeping-place
that is given to me for this night."
And the bondman, who watched over certain possessions of his
master, led the brethren to the place of his watch. There did they
find shelter and warmth, for it was winter, and the chill of the
night increased with the passing of the hours.
198 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
CHAPTER IV
LYDIA COMMUNES WITH HERSELF AND DETERMIN'ES TO BE BAPTISED:
HER INTERVIEW WITH THEMESIUS : SHE SHELTERS THE BRETHREN
Now when the saints had gone from the company of Lyd!a she
sought her chamber. And there she communed with her past life,
spreading it before her inner vision as rich broidered garments of
gold and purple might be spread before her fleshly eyes. And she
perceived that all the Lord had bestowed upon her in those early
days was good and seemly; even the great sorrow that had fallen
upon her was as a token from God and like unto a lantern lighting
a dark road. For she would not have sought the Lord with such
diligence if she had not suffered and known the evil of loss.
And, as she considered the pa~t. she perceived that it contained
within it all her future, that it created what was to follow. Then
she turned her mind to dreams of coming days. And she perceived
also that these were good. For it was now her purpose to seek
baptism, to be sealed with the Spirit of love and faith, to strive in
works, and in prayer to be faithful unto our Lord Jesus Christ.
And she was comforted, because she called to mind the words
of Paul, who had assured her that, if she were worthy, she would
look upon her husband once more in the kingdom of the blessed.
Great was her joy, because the saints had shown her that the
worlds of the dead and of the living were not far from one another.
Through the remission of sins she would be freed from the bondage
of everlasting death ; and, when her full time was accomplished,
pass into the world of the ever-living, which was called by her
people the home of the dead.
Lifting up her eyes·to the light, she arose, and, calling her servant,
bade him seek out the habitation of the saints, entreating them to
come unto her. The desire for speedy baptism consumed her
being. She could not tarry when a deep purpose of this kind filled
her mind ; by natw·e she ever craved to accomplish her thought
with a deed.
She went forth from her dwelling, walking in the cool of dawn
in her garden. And she was going to and fro among the herbs when
a slave came unto her saying that one desired to speak with her.
Deeming the saints had hasted to come unto her dwelling, she
bade the slave admit this person to her presence.
And lo l Themesius bowed himself before her, excusing his visit
at that early hour because he bore tidings of import unto her.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 199
She bade him speak in haste,.for there was much before her in the
coming hours of the day.
And he said unto her: "I have ever held very dear thy life and
·thy happiness. Thou art a widow, with no bro•ther or husband
to safeguard thee from ill. Thou knowest little of the evil that
lieth in wait for good women who are earnest in well-doing. So
I have come to warn thee against the stranger."
And here Lydia spoke swiftly, cutting short his speech with her
question : " Speakest thou of the strangers who oome from Troas ?
Speakest thou of the messengers of God ? "
Themesius made answer: "I speak of those Jews who have
come to trouble the peace of our town and to set the people and
the slaves against the Rulers. These men have been cast out
from the dwelling of Elkana because of their evil speech, because
they set up this Jesus as being greater than the Emperor. Now
Elkana is much respected by all, and his judgment is sure. Where-
fore I would that thou follow in his ways. Go no more to hearken
unto these babblers of folly; close thy doors to them."
Then was Lydia greatly angered, and yet she strove to hide her
wrath, for she read the heart of this man and knew him to be
cunning and crafty in his devices.
" Thy speech is smooth as the oil of olives," she declared, " thou
devisest evil imaginations. I heard thy words when thou spakest
unto the saints by the riverside. Thou wast jealous of them
because the people hearkened to their words. And so thou hast
borne unto Elkana evil tales concerning these holy men. He hath
hearkened unto thy words, for he is a fearful :man. Wherefore
thou hast prevailed with him.
"Now I have bidden the saints to my house, so that they will
baptise me. And as thou hast taken their shelter from them, I
will seek to constrain them to abide within my dwelling."
And Themesius made answer : " Grave scandal will arise if they
lodge with thee. Hast thou given any thought to what will follow
on the heels of this welcome of beggars and outcasts ? The people
who buy of thy goods will not come unto thee, for the Romans will
turn against those who seek to confound authority. And thou
shalt be in an evil case ; thy treasure will melt away and thou
wilt be deserted by all."
And Themesius besought Lydia to heed his words, to do as
Elkana-to drive these strangers forth from her gates.
As he spoke a slave came unto his mistress, saying: "Behold,
these men of God await thy pleasure."
Then did Lydia command her slave to lead forth Themesius
200 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
from her house. And, even as Themesius gazed darkly upon her,
she bade the slave give word to all to shut her doors to this man
from henceforth.
He sought with entreaty and much speaking to win her from this
purpose. But she would not heed him, passing from out the garden,
seeking the saints who awaited her coming in the hall of her abode.
She led them to a chamber, and when they had set themselves
about her at her bidding, she spoke unto them, saying : " Masters,
I am all unworthy that ye should come into my dwelling ; but, if
my works for the poor have found favour in your sig~t. I beseech
you to baptise me and to make me a follower of your;Master Jesus
Christ."
Then, when Timothy had baptised her, and when the saints had
baptised all those who dwelt in her house, she spoke once more
concerning her works for the poor.
And she asked the saints to abide in her habitation. It was
large, and there were many workers who laboured within it, so she
deemed that the Brethren might thereby find souls to be saved,
and might cause it to be a place wherein others might gather who
desired to shape a council of Elders and a Church in Philippi.
The Brethren were well content to abide there, and they were
freed for the work of the Lord. She would not permit them to labour
in her service, and thus render her measure for measure. She desired
that they should give all their days to the teaching of the pe0ple.
There were many women known to her. These she summoned
into the presence of the saints, and so a great number were in time
gathered within Christ's fold in that town. And Luke was rejoiced
in heart, for he perceived that he had not erred in seeking out Paul,
and in telling him that the Macedonians would hearken unto his
teaching and welcome him to their midst.
CHAPTER V
THEMESIUS HAS RECOURSE TO MAGIC
HowBEIT, the evil man, when he is crossed, waxeth doubly strong
with the heat of his baffled yearnings. And Themesius rested not,
but went from one to another in that town, spreading over it a
net of evil words.
He bethought him of those who work in magic, of a maid who
was known as a diviner, and was much sought after because of the
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 201
spirit which possessed her at times, which could speak with her
lips, declaring the future of man and his past to him.
So Themesius questioned a servant concerning these workers in
magic. And the servant spoke of them on this wise :
"In the old days the magicians could hew the moon out of the
skies and cause it to descend and rest upon the rim of the earth.
They stayed the winds in their courses, even the hot desert wind
of the south. They changed stones into beasts, and they caused
beasts to appear in the shape of men. The birds and the dogs have
uttered in the speech of man. Many and marvellous have been
the works of the magicians.
" Howbeit, those who possess this maid have not the power of
the ancient sorcerers, yet, if ye give them gold, they will show you
strange things, and they may contrive for you the undoing of your
enemies."
So Themesius sought out the workers of magic. And he found
them in a dim chamber of stone, where they burnt incense, where
there were·strange perfumes from herbs. And they sought to show
him the marvels they could work. One laid his hands upon the
brow of Themesius and cast about him a foul, sweet air, drawing
it forth from an instrument. Then he bade Themesius look upon
a peacock. And when he had gazed upon this bird and perceived
its feathers of many colours, the magician caused him to breathe
the more heavily that evil sweetness. And, behold, the peacock
was changed into a serpent, and again it was changed into a dog
that spoke unto him; saying: "Thou shalt drive thipe enemies
from this town, yet thou·shalt not prevail against them. Thou
shalt triumph over them, yet they will overcome thee. So it is
written, and so shall it be."
And all this while the maid lay still upon the ground, stirring not,
seeming to sleep.
Howbeit, Themesius had knowledge of the ways of these workers
of magic ; and when the dog faded into the dimness and the peacock
once more stood before him, he declared : " I have heard the dog
utter the words of the people, nay, rather, ye have bewitched me,
causing me thus to hear him. Yet were the words that came unto
my hearing spoken by this maid who hath not stirred, and lieth as
one who sleepeth."
Then the three withered men, the owners of the maid, were
angered by his words, and they denied his charge, and offered to
show him further marvels. But he bade them cease prating, and
declared his will unto them. " Your practices cannot in any
manner serve me. I would win the favour of the people in the
202 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
market-place. Ye are not in good repute with the merchants in
this town."
And here did Themesius pause in his speech, for the fierce old
men did gloom upon him, thrusting out their fingers, that were
like birds' claws, protesting that they were much sought after by
rich and poor, by even the wives of the Magistrates.
And they named one who was held to be the noblest in position
among the women in Philippi. "Eneda," they declared, "came
unto us and bade us search for certain earrings of gold, for certain
jewels of great costliness which had been stolen from her. And,
behold, the spirit possessed the maid, and she gave Eneda true
tidings concerning them, telling her that the robber was one whom
she held in high esteem. And this was so ; and through us, there-
fore, were the jewels found and rendered unto their owner.
"Lovers who are cast down and sick at heart, come unto us,
and we render unto them their desire. Merchants, when darkness
hath fallen, come in singly to this chamber. They ask of the
spirit of the serpent that possesseth the girl counsel concerning
their ships upon the sea. And she telleth them whether they will
make a fair journey, whether the winds will be contrary, whether
the sea robbers will ravish their vessels and take their crews captive.
" All believe in the words that are uttered, and therefore we are
held secretly in high repute. Outwardly those in authority may
not do us honour, yet do they show us ·their favour secretly, paying
us in treasure for our great services to them."
And Themesius made answer, " It is the maid that serves them."
Whereupon the elder of the withered men protested : II She is
ours ; we gave a fair price for her ; and if it were not for our protec-
tion she could not serve all who seek what is hidden, who desire
that revelation should be made to them concerning their destiny.
All believe in the words uttered by the serpent, who is known as
the Snake of Knowledge by some, and possesseth the girl, causing
her lips to utter at our bidding what shall come to pass."
Then Themesius said unto them: "I will pay you gold if ye will
set certain words of shame in the mouth of this maid, and cause
her to follow my enemies and to cry them down, so that the
multitude sha,.ll believe that these people are evil."
And the magicians answered him: II We can command this
maid to follow your enemies, and she will obey us, but we cannot
command the spirit that entereth within her, and is the master
when the words of wisdom are uttered by her."
Now Themesius believed that these men feared authority, and
would not, because of this dread, set speech that might be unseemly
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 203
in the mouth of their slave. So he sought not to press them
concerning it, but took his leave, saying he would return again.
This wily Macedonian knew that, if the maid spoke evilly con-
cerning the saints when they went to preach among the people,
then the multitude would look with disfavour upon the strangers.
For many among them were superstitious, and their minds would,
therefore, be closed against the saints, their defences sealed against
their words.
Wherefore Themesius visited the workers of magic once more,
and they permitted him to speak with the. maid alone. She was
a tender plant, slender and fair ; strange were her glances, absent
her manner, so that she did not seem to hearken, so that it would
/ seem hard to win her wandering mind.
Howbeit, when Themesius spoke unto her, bidding her speak after
the fashion he had devised, she made answer: "Sir, thou wouldst
have me command my master. The slave may not order his ways."
" Of what master speakest thou ? " Themesius asked.
"Of the spirit of the serpent," said the maid. "When he
possesseth my body he casteth the coverlet of sleep about my soul.
Give thy commands to him a,nd not unto me."
Then was the Macedonian perplexed in mind, and he believed the
maid played with him. He chid her, and threatened her with stripes
and punishment if she would not do his will. And, being fearful,
she besought him to pardon her and promised to obeyhiscommands.
So she was led into the market-place, where she perceived the
saints. And a tale of words was given her that she should utter
at a certain hour.
When the time for teaching led the strangers to the riverside
she was to cry out, and with much crying to defame them, causing
a scandal and much talk in the town.
CHAPTER VI
SYNTICHE CAUSES ELKANA TO BE ASHAMED: PAUL REPROVES HER
PRIDE
Now it came to pass that a certain woman of noble birth, named
Syntiche, heard that the saints dwelt in the house of Lydia, and
she learned also that Elkana had cast them forth from his dwelling.
So she went unto him and asked him how it was he had committed
this ill deed.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
He declared that the saints sought to undo the authority of the
Emperor, that he had been told that their prophet Jesus was not
dead but living, and that they would set Him up in the place of
the Emperor if they could first win for Him many followers with
their false tales.
And Syntiche answered that the Jew had hearkened unto tale-
bearers; that there was no truth in such idle talk as had been borne
·to him; and that it was a dishonour to his house to cast the stranger
from his board; and all those Jews who abode in that town would
tum their faces from him.
Being firm of purpose, Syntiche determined that she would
destroy this scandal with another; for she had not yet learned to
render good for evil. She believed with all her heart in the glad
tidings borne by the saints unto Philippi.
And, being mighty in fervour, and desirous that the people should
believe, she sought out other women, and spoke ill of Elkana to
them. She declared that he would cause the tribe of the Jews in
Philippi to be a byword a~ong .their Brethren in other cities, for he
had broken the law concerning the welcome that is given to the
seemly stranger who cometh from far places and seeketh to sojourn
with the people of his race.
So those of the Jews who abode in Philippi made much talk
concerning the saints ; and through this much speaking were led
_to hearken unto them. Then did they believe in their words, so
-that they cast black looks at Elkana and he was shamed.
He sought out the saints privily and entreated them to lodge
once more with him. Syntiche, who would not be outdone in well-
doing by her sister in Christ, bade Paul and Silas to her dwelling,
and entreated them to be of her household. When they declared
that they might not depart from the one who had offered them
shelter in their need, Syntiche was provoked against Lydia. And
she spoke hard words unto her, saying : " Thou settest a bridle
upon these holy men ; thou wouldst prison them in thine house.
Set not thyself up in this unseemly manner, for it ill becometh a
trader in purple. Let these good men go ; I would fain welcome
them to my dwelling. There will come unto it the Magistrates and
all those who would not enter into the house of a merchant of
coloured cloths."
Being wise in many things, though quick to anger when her
authority was disputed, Lydia sought out Paul and asked the saint
to give judgment in this matter. And he rebuked Syntiche for the
sin of pride, saying that there should be neither high nor low, that
within the Church those who excelled in righteousness were first,
THE THIRD PARCHMENT ::zos
and that only through humbleness of spirit might she conquer this
sin of pride in her name and in her power in that city.
Syntiche abased herself in the presence of them all and besought
Lydia to pa,rdon her. Yet was she for a space set against those
things which Lydia devised, and she was seldom in those days of
accord with her.
I give unto you this tale of small contentions because they will
show you how the desire for well-doing is oft perverted ; and even
among the holy women there was at times no small disSension
because of their zeal for the works of the Lord.
CHAPTER VII
THE EMPLOYMENT OF MAGIC WORKS AGAINST THEMESIUS : PAUL
EXORCISES THE SPIRIT POSSESSING THE MAGICIAN'S MAID : THIS
LEADS TO RIOT
Now on the Sabbath, when the Brethren made their way to the
riverside through the press of the people, the maid was led by her
masters, who had received moneys from Themesius, to the place
of the gathering. And as the people drew away from the saints
at their bidding, the maid was thrust forth from among them, so
that she stood so close to Paul she touched the hem of his robe.
Then did she cry out with such loudness all the people were
hushed. They whispered one to another, " The Serpent of Know-
ledge speaketh ; let us hearken to him."
And all who were about the saints were moved by the words of
her crying : " These ·are the slaves of the mighty God, and they
are come unto Philippi so that they may show the people the way
of salvation, so that all may be saved through them."
And when the people sighed with wonder she spoke yet again,
and her speech was of the same import, though the words were
changed, and her whole body was cast about as a shaken leaf by
her crying.
Themesius .was greatly angered, for he perceived the people
believed in all that she uttered ; and he whispered unto her masters
his command: "Lay hands on the maid and bear her from among
the people. She hath not obeyed me ; she hath used words that
were forbidden by me. Punish her, and I will come unto you again
and declare my will to her."
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Now the will of an evil man is like unto a sharp sword that,
when in the hands of its possessor, smiteth blindly all who lie in his
path.
This Macedonian now hated Lydia, and, because he hated her,
he desired her the more. He yearned to cast her down, to abase
her pride, and he knew that through the overthrow of the saints
only could he thus encompass her undoing.
There were many of the Roman stock in that city, and they were
wealthy, possessing authority, possessing a good name with the
people. Howbeit, they liked not the Jews, for they had little
understanding of them. They accused those who were of J udrea
of craft, of a peculiar pride ; and oft were there disputations between
the people of the two races.
Clement, the son of the Chief Magistrate, owed money to a certain
Jew; and, being one of a wasteful nature, he could not return what
was borrowed in due season. His father had spoken sternly unto
him concerning this debt, and he had shamed the young man before
his household when the lender sought his dues.
So Clement held that all Hebrews were his enemies, and he gladly
inclined his ear unto Themesius, who spoke to him concerning
seditious strangers who had come from Judrea with a tale concern,.
ing one of their own race whom they desired to raise up above the
Emperor, thus overthrowing all authority.
Now Clement bore the words of the Macedonian to his father,
and required of him that he should consider the menace that thus
rose up like a wolf's head in Philippi.
The Magistrate was old, stout of figure, not easily stirred by
the words of youth. And he declared that he would wait until
testimony had been borne him concerning the strangers. There
were many who came and went in that town ; only the fool
hearkened to wild talk concerning them.
So Clement was discomforted, yet he was not thus led to forget
the strangers. He went among the Romans, speaking to them of
the evil men who were within the gates of their city, who sought
to sway the hearts of the multitude with the turbulent wind of
treason.
Wherefore there arose, like a gathering tide a silent anger against
Paul and Silas. And they knew not that there were these evil
wishers among the householders of Philippi. They continued to
pray and preach, spreading the tidings of the Lord among the
people.
Soon all the Jews were led to hearken, and they were not like
to those of their race in other cities. They treated the Brethren
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 207
civilly, and many of them were baptised, becoming fervent believers
in our Lord Christ.
Themesius went once more to the chamber where abode the
workers of magic. He asked them whether they had punished the
girl for her foolish crying.
They made answer: "We have praised her, or, rather, we have
rejoiced because of the words the spirit uttered. Since that hour
many have come unto the girl demanding counsel, for they were
amazed at the words she uttered, and the ignorant declare that
the gods speak through her. So we prosper because she hath thus
cried after the strangers, and we will neither punish her nor strive
with her concerning the words that are uttered by her lips."
Then Themesius sought to win them with bribes ; but they would
not be gainsaid by him, for the gold that many bore unto them
because of the maid was greater than the price the Macedonian
could name to them.
And these three withered men lay in wait for the saints daily,
watching their goings out and comings in ; and when they went
unto the river to preach to those who were devout, these workers
in magic summoned the girl, bidding her follow Paul and Silas
through the town and not cease from her crying.
It was not needful thus to command the maid. Strangely
stirred was her whole being when she drew nigh to Paul ; and she
declared that there was a white radiance about him ; that joy was
hers when she bathed within it ; and there was truly the glory of
the great God around him.
TherP.fore she lifted up her voice, calling to the people to bow
down before this mighty one, declaring his holiness. And, though
the saints entreated her to be silent, she would not be stilled,
increasing her clamour, her body cast about as a vessel upon a
wind-blown sea.
Now harm was wrought through the cries of the spirit that ruled
the maid. In the early days, when first the saints taught in Philippi,
only seekers after God, those who desired true wisdom, hearkened
to the teaching of the Brethren.
The Serpent of Knowledge became the talk of the whole people.
And the voice, which was sharp and clear as the call of birds, sum-
moned those who were curious or wanton of mind to the assembly
by the riverside. These sought, in jest and rude play with one
another, to cause such disorder devout persons might not hearken
unto the words of the teacher.
So Lydia asked the three ~ld men to keep the slave within their
dwelling at the hour of prayer. Howbeit, they would not yield to
208 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
her demand, for their treasure increased daily through the witness
the maid bore unto the saints.
And one evening, when many had gathered about Paul through
the loud crying, anger possessed him ; he could no more stay the
words that he had many times held back from utterance.
He turned him about, gazing with intentness upon the girl ; and
she bowed herself down before him, her cryings stilled as he spoke
unto her, bidding the spirit to come forth and no more to seek
lodgment within her body.
For a space no man stirred. The talk of the people was as the
drone of hees. It entered not into the hearing of Paul nor into the
hearing of the girl.
She did shiver and shake, and the creature that possessed her
wrestled with the will of the saint, striving against his holy worcts,
but in vain. They cast him out and he returned no more, the maid
from henceforth being freed from this unseen master.
Howsoever, those who had paid the price for her were provoked
to wrath. for they could not restore unto its lodgment the Serpent
of Knowledge. They declared that Paul and Silas were in league
with demons. And, when the people were once more gathered
together to hearken unto the preacher, they cast themselves about,
leaping into the air, crying out, at the bidding of Themesius, "These
strangers have plotted to burn our city ; they would overthrow the
rule of the Magistrates ; they would rob the people of Philippi of
the fruits of their labour. They seek the undoing of all."
And Clement rose up, declaring : " These men utter words that
are true ; these strangers desire our humiliation ; they would forbid
the customs of the people ; they are in league against the State.
Come, let us seize them and slay them. so that evil may not prevail."
Then there was a great tumult; for Lydia caused certain of the
Jews to gather about the saints. These strove with the multitude
who had been provoked to wrath by the wild words of Clement and
the withered men. Yet, being few, they might not stay the Romans
and Greeks who carne against them.
All fell away; the two saints stood alone in the midst of their
enemies, who, though they were as beasts in their vain ignorance,
were abashed when they faced the Brethren. For the earnest
countenance of Paul, and the gentle dignity of Silas, and that
strange power that is of the Spirit, baffled them, holding them back
for a short space.
Howsoever, Themesius would not be gainsaid, and he caused
men to sling stones. Some of the women who watched were cast
to the ground, others were wo1mded. And the three workers in
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 209
magic made great noise, beating upon shrill-crying instruments of
music, and uttering spells that caused hardihood to enter into the
youths, who laid violent hands on Paul and Silas, dragging them
into the courts with loud clamour. ·
Then the withered men rejoiced, with speech and evil sounds of
music rousing the multitude to even greater wrath.
CHAPTER VIII
THE CIVIC PRIDE OF THE CHIEF MAGISTRATE OF PHILIPPI WOUNDED
BY THE RIOT: PAUL AND SILAS PUNISHED: LYDIA'S INTERVENTION
PRESERVES THE CHURCH
I WOULD write of the Magistrates who rule Philippi. They were
not Greeks, but of the seed of the Romans, and their earnest desire
was to cause their town to be a pattern of order, so to shape its
governance that peace should reign within its borders. And they
designed that the fear of riot should so fill the hearts of the citizens
it should be like a circle of ringed spears protecting the common-
wealth from the shedding of blood, from that woeful civil disorder
that oft causeth the destruction of great cities.
Now the father of Clement was puffed up with pride because
under his rule Philippi prospered, because the traders came and
went peacefully, because the customs of the Romans were observed.
Dearer than treasure, dearer than the joys of feasting, dearer than
costly apparel, dearer than aught else, was the order and peace that
reigned within the town to the heart of this Magistrate, who was
like unto the first citizens of Rome in the love he had for the law and
its observance.
Now there came unto Philippi four envoys from other regions.
And they said to the Chief Magistrate: "We have heard of the
fame of thy city, and we arc come to study the manner of its rule,
to sit at thy feet and be instructed by thee ; so that we may apply
the knowledge we shall thus gain to the ruling of our own towns."
Then was the Chief Magistrate greatly exalted in mind. He led
his guests through the noble courts ; he showed them the hall of the
strangers, which was hung with rich broidered work in blue and
purple and divers colours ; he led them, while it was yet dark, to the
summit of a high tower. And they watched the dawn, clear as
crystal, spreading over the city, lighting up the white walls of
Oc
2IO THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Philippi, causing them to shine as if they were precious metals, in
the hush giving to all a wondrous beauty that stirred the hearts of
the strangers.
And the Chief Magistrate said unto their leader, Galbus: " Sir,
I ·would bid thee to a feast in the cool of the day, and the citizens
shall gather together to greet thee. They will bear thee tidings
concerning my humble labours for their welfare. I have not spared
my health or strength. My nights have been sleepless, all my days
surrendered to my work for the perfecting of this town.
"And now, in my age, I delight in it; for we have no disorder
among our citizens. They are faithful subjects to the Emperor,
and would gladly die for him.
" I have not easily builded up such civic virtue. In past years
I caused the youths to be instructed in the virtue of obedience to the
laws and loyalty to the Emperor. And now, if one spoke words of
treason in the streets, be would be torn to pieces by the multitude ;
naught could stay their anger.
" Howheit, it would be incredible if one were thus to preach
sedition ; the very earth would be revolted and would rise up against
him.
"Ye will perceive the greatness of the spirit of this people, and
ye will know that a few- two or three- who have understanding can
labour thus perfectly, shape their city, causing it to be a precious
stone in the treasure of Rome."
Now the envoys believed the words of the Chief Magistrate,
though.he seemed to take his ease, and to have that air of well-
being that is not usual with those who labour sorely early and late
for other men.
And the strangers went to their chambers to prepare themselves
for the feast that was to be held in their honour.
And lo l as they assembled in the great hall, the noise of tumult
smote upon their ears, and, hasting forth, they perceived a multitude
of men slinging stones and striking one another. They perceived
women and youths cast upon the ground, and people who ran by
them with fear graven on their countenances.
They demanded of one of these the cause of the tumult.
And he made answer : " The multitude have rebelled against
authority; the ]ews would cast down the rule of the Emperor ; they
strive to seize the town. Hasten to some shelter where ye may not
be attacked and slain."
Then did the strangers seek the Magistrates in the market-place.
These were gathered together and were apparelled in their costly
robes, so that at the banquet they might do honour to their guests.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 2II
They went to and fro, casting up their hands to Heaven, and
their conversation was as the cackling of geese, no sense or reason
in their words. For all were dismayed at the sounds of tumult, at
the rumour that the hidden enemy was within their gates and sought
to put the people of Philippi to the edge of the sword.
"Not since remembrance was vouchsafed to man," declared one,
" hath there been such disorder. It is the end of all civil rule ; we
shall be cast out; there will be an uprising of the slaves and we
shall be slain."
After a short space a messenger came unto the courts, saying:
"The multitude bear unto you for judgment the leaders of this
revolt against authority. The guard has quelled their followers,
and, after much stem fighting, overcome them, scattering them
like chaff."
Then was the disorder in the courts stilled. The Magistrates
were no more dismayed, rejoicing in what they believed was a great
victory over the hidden enemy who had striven to overturn
authority. ·
So fearful were they, they believed in these false tales. They
knew not that those who were called the enemy were but two men
of God, who had striven to still the tumult, who had raised no hand
against the violent men who sought their undoing.
And behold ! the press of the Greeks and Romans opened out ;
and Paul and Silas, bound and bleeding, were flung at the feet of
the Rulers, where they lay, faint from the blows that had been
dealt them, their mouths filled with dust, their raiment tom, causing
them to seem like the Wild robbers of the hills.
Galbus, one of the envoys, said unto a Magistrate : " Strange
is the disorder 'of this city. Thou hast declared that naught but
peace reigneth within it, and that its citizens are an example to all
the nations."
Now Galbus was a mocker, and to the Chief Magistrate these
were bitter words. Yet he could not gainsay them. Wherefore
he became possessed with fury, and he declared : " Great is our
shame. Seek not to humble us the more with thy speech."
Then did he and those about him cast off their costly robes,
dividing them in many pieces, so that no man could wear them at
any future time. And this was a sign unto the people that the
offence of Paul and Silas was grave, and in a certain manner it
comforted the Chief Magistrate, who was woeful of countenance
and utterly cast about by the overthrow of all that was dear to him.
The withered men thrust themselves forward at the bidding of
Clement, and, like bulls, they bellowed out their accusation.
212 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
" These thieves of the commonweal, these ravishers of our homes,
seek to set up as Emperor a Jew named Jesus. They would lead
the common folk against their Rulers. They declare that men
should not be bound by the Roman law, but should give themselves
over to rebellion, to lustful devices. They teach the people treason,
scattering among them evil talk concerning the Kingdom of their
leader Jesus, which shall cast out the kingdom of our father and
our god, the Emperor.
"We demand the lives of these two men, who are but lost and
wandering slaves, who came from across the sea, fleeing from their
masters."
And the workers of magic gave utterance to many other words.
Yet even men will weary of talk, and at last will there come an end
to their windy speech.
When they ceased, Paul rose up demanding silence, so that he
mi~ht make an answer to these charges. And, as the Rulers still
were earnestly employed in the tearing asunder of their raiment,
it might well have been that Paul could have gained a bearing for
his defence.
Howbeit, Themesius had the wicked spider's eye, which perceivetb
all that might happen-what lieth behind and what lieth before.
He caused great clamour to arise among the people, who demanded
that these traitors should forthwith be cast into prison, for they
had mayhap confederates abroad, and that an example should be
made so that no slaves or Hebrews should rise in.revolt against the
established order.
And the father of Clement bade the guard yield up the two
prisoners to the lictors, that they should be punished with many
stripes and then cast into prison, into safe bold.
All the people shouted their joy, for they were eager, desiring to
make sport of the torment of the saints, punishment of others being
ever the delight of lustful men.
The guard drove forth Silas and Paul, and they could not make
known to the Magistrates that they were falsely judged, being
Roman citizens and not straying slaves. Thus did the lawmakers
break the law.
And the clamour of the multitude quenched the voices of the
prisoners, who were smitfen with many strokes, so that their senses
faded from them, and they fainted away in the presence of the
people. .
Some of the Hebrews, who had come to believe in Christ, whispered
one to another, saying: "Behold, if Jesus be in truth the Son of
God, He will break the newcords about Paul and Silas as the thread
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 213
of tow when the flame scorcheth it. Or mayhap Jesus will cause
a cloud to descend from Heaven and gather the saints away within
its folds."
Howbeit, though the skies· were dark they cast no dim dews
about them, concealing them. No sign was vouchsafed, no men
among the persecutors were smitten. In triumph they bore the
bruised Brethren to the place of their keeping.
And Lydia heard the murmuring among the congregation of
those ':Yho had been but lately baptised, and she bade them enter
within her garden of herbs.
She would permit no man among them to lift up his voice lest
he should deride the saints. And she spoke many earnest words
of exhortation unto them, though Paul had declared unto her that
silence was the seemly woman's part, that they should not be heard
in the assembly.
Yet this godly woman knew that it was an hour of peril for the
Church in Philippi, and neither Luke nor Timothy were nigh ; for
they had gone in the company of Syntiche to a certain Roman
who had the ear of the Magistrates, and might be persuaded to
instruct them concerning the error of their judgment of Paul and
Silas in the agora.
And Lydia admonished the assembled people, saying: "I have
heard your whispering and muttering. I have heard you declare
that our Master Christ was verily not God because He sent no sign,
no cloud of dark dew from Heaven, that would bear away the
saints, as hath been done of old time to the prophets when they
were in need. Behold, ye men of Philippi, ye are faithless ; ye are
dead unto Christ, our Master. For ye do not perceive that, even as
He suffered many things at the hands of the unbelievers, so must
his Disciples suffer. And their stripes and torment are but a sign
sent unto you so that yc may believe in the glory of Jesus, who
rose from the dead on the third. day, who watcheth over all the
faithful, trying their hearts and their bodies in order that they may
be purified of all grossness, living, not after the flesh, but after
the Spirit."
Now there were many among the men assembled who were
afraid, and desired to desert the fold of Christ. They feared the
scorn of the multitude, the condemnation of those who wished them
ill. And they bethought them they would secretly fall away, going
no more among the Brethren. For they deemed they had been
deserted, because no miracle had been wrought in the market-place.
Lydia divined their cowardly purpose, and was determined to
wrestle against this fearfulness. So, having spoken unto them for
2!4 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
a short space, she bade each man in tum rise up and declare whether
his faith was in Christ, or whether he would go forth from the
Church, casting in his lot with the unbelievers, the followers after
Satan.
And first there arose an Elder, and the words of denial were
prepared within him. But when they should gush forth he became
as one who is stricken with dumbness, his eyes cast down before
the stem gaze of Lydia.
And she said unto him : " Brother, I perceive that thou art a
faithful believer in our Lord Jesus Christ, and in this Church of His
in Philippi, and in the revelation that hath been given unto these
holy men who now lie in the prison ? "
The Elder bowed his head in assent. And then Lydia sum-
moned Elkana and spoke in the same manner unto him. He also
was fearful of heart, desiring to renounce his belief in Christ, to
separate himself from the saints. Yet was his tongue in bonds
likewise, and he had not the hardihood to utter his denial in the
presence of this good woman. So he bowed his head, seeming to
assent to her words.
And all those others who were assembled, yielded unto the firm
demeanour of Lydia, and were constrained by her resolution to
abide within the fold of Christ.
Thus ye may perceive that it is the shepherd who must be proved
above all others. And one woman or one man is as the voice of a
great multitude if that one soul be firm of purpose and filled with
the Spirit of God.
CHAPTER IX
THE EARTHQUAKE MAKES IT POSSIBLE TO ESCAPE: THE JAILER'S
CONVERSION
Now a strange stillness fell upon Philippi. No wind stirred the
leaves ; no talk was there in the streets ; all had gone home at the
hour of sunset. Men were wearied with their shouting and their
tumult, troubled by a secret fear. Strange had been the happenings
·of the day, and stranger seemed the swift-gathering darkness and
the hush that fell upon Philippi.
The prison was a small way removed from the houses of the town ;
there was a guard withoutit and a keeper within. These also were
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 215
silent, for they felt the unseen menace, the threat that seemed
contained in the blackness that now was all about them.
When the faintness had passed, the two prisoners had no fear;
the peace of the Lord reigned within their being. They rejoiced
in their tribulation ; and so glad were they because they had been
found worthy thus to suffer that they lifted up their voices, breaking
the hush with songs of praise, with psalms and much thanksgiving.
And those wicked men, who were imprisoned for stealing, for
murder, and for deeds of violence, hearkened unto the holy words of
triumph that were uttered by the saints. And they beat upon the
walls, asking Paul and Silas to speak unto them, to declare their
purpose in that prison, and wherefore they sang joyfully in these
evil dungeons.
Then did Paul and Silas bear testimony unto Christ, instructing
these wild and ignorant men, telling them of the forgiveness that
would be bestowed on all if they would believe and seek to lead a
new life.
And they would have continued speaking, for these men were
eager and amazed at their tidings, if the guard had not come into
the dungeon and rebuked the saints, bidding them hold their peace.
For there was some great evil abroad ; the people of the town were
fearful, and there should be silence, so that this winged devil might
peradventure pass by the town of Philippi, wreaking no ill upon it.
Then did stillness fall upon all.
And, having perceived that the prisoners were fast bound, the
jailer retired to his chamber, which was without the cells, between
them and the prison gates.
There this man cast himself down, and rested in a muse, with the
words the saints had uttered to the wicked men spread before his
soul. He was a Roman, upright in nature, the possessor of certain
stern virtues.
He loved order and design ; he followed a seemly manner of life ;
his days were set about with duties that were surely fulfilled by him.
And, as his life on earth was thus clearly shaped, so would he have
the life in the world to come shaped with the same plainness. Yet
was all hidden from him ; the mystery of death and the passing of
the spirit were dark and unsearchable. And he was fretted
because he could not divine what followed the withering up of his
body, its passing away.
Now the words of Paul had stirred the jailer's mind, a mind
wherein there had lurked other sayings borne unto him by one of his
kin concerning the strangers whom the kinsman had called the
prophets of the most High God.
216 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
And when he had asked whether the teaching of this mighty God
would be, because of its obscurity, concealed by those in authority,
the man had answered him : " Ye might as .easily hide the wind."
And this saying was true, for, behold, the words of Christ were
uttered in the darkness on that eve, and had come like healing balm
to this jailer, soothing the fret of his soul. Within them was the
sure promise of a life to come that was not as a noisome pit of
disorder, but was seemly and well ordered. All those who were
righteous would be the subjects in that Kingdom.
This was the meaning the jailer had read into the words of the
saints. And he was glad at heart, for he held himself to be pure in
all his ways, and his days had been filled with righteous deeds. He
held that these two strangers were just and God-fearing because
of the nobility of their words, many of which had been garnered for
him, as I have told you, by his kinsman.
He was in a manner perplexed. He deemed it strange that those
who spoke with such power and truth should be led to lodge within
this prison. And his perplexity twisted and turned, finding no
straight path to follow.
And he uttered his desire : " I would that I might perceive some
token, some sign whereby I might know that these people have
received knowledge from the rulers and law-givers of the skies."
As there came no answer to this utterance, the jailer turned him-
self about, soon passing into a deep sleep, for the air was heavy,
bearing within it the thick drowsiness that comes from the juice
of herbs.
Now Paul and Silas slumbered not; their wounds did bleed, and
where the chains bound the bruised flesh there was much pain, so
that they were tormented. And, after the weariness of that evil
day, it seemed·as if they could not for one hour more bear the
bondage of their bodies. Their souls yearned for the infinite
freedoti1. And still, like burning coals, their bound limbs seared
their spirit, and they prayed in silence that they might be spared,
that death might visit them before the day did spring upon the
night, scattering it.
And lo ! there came a dull tumult on the air, as if a multitude
were dealing the earth heavy blows.
And then there was a ceasing for an instant of that dull noise.
Behold l the ground did rise up, the stones of the walls did yawn,
the saints were twisted, cast about, and flung from the stocks of
wood to which they had been bound.
And there beat upon their ears mighty sounds, and there were
strange, lost cries coming from out the blackness of that vast night.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 217
The earth did once more leap, and the door of the cell was cast
outwards, the posts to which it was bound being drawn away as if
some unseen hands had removed them, and caused the road to
freedom to open before the saints.
Then there was great moaning and crying out from the prisoners
who were in the dungeons, and Paul lifted up his voice, saying,
"Peace, all is well."
No man would hearken. The chains had been loosed; they were
free, the doors open ; the guard fled. Yet such terror had entered
into the hearts of these prisoners that they lay upon the ground as
if they had been stricken with palsy ; even their crying ceased. For
the greatest of all fears had smitten them with dumbness. They
scarcely breathed in the silence that followed the quaking of the
earth.
Now Silas whispered unto Paul : " The way is open. Let us pass
through the hole in this wall and gain our freedom."
But Paul rebuked him, saying : " We are in ward. Let us not
flee ; for then would it appear that we had done evil and fled from
our shame."
As they bided beside the riven stocks, the loosed chains, they
perceived that there was a paleness without. The darkness was
passing ; and they saw in the room beyond a man who stood weeping
in the loneliness.
He did mutter and moan, raising up a sword to his breast,
lamenting: "The prisoners have fled; I have failed in my duty;
death shall be my portion."
And Paul had pity on him. He called out, saying: "We are all
within. None of those in thy charge are gone from thy keeping.
Summon the guard, and I shall abide their coming. Put up thy
weapon; we give thee our word as Roman citizens we shall'rest here
till thou returnest again with thy followers."
And the jailer sought for these men who had fled into the open
country, fearing lest they should be swallowed up in a pit that did
gape in the earth at the prison door.
There was no more shaking ; there fell the old quiet upon the
land. The affrighted guard returned unto their charge. And
they kindled torches so that they might discover all the nakedness
of the riven prison.
And the jailer bade his followers see to the common men, who
had been too stricken with fear to seek their freedom.
When the guards went unto their charge, this just man bore his
torch of flickering flame into the presence of the saints.
And there were great beads of sweat upon his brow as he cast
----~-
2!8 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
himself before them, saying : " The demons are all abroad this
night, their monsters unchained. They may yet cause the dragon-
hearted earth to open and devour us. 0 servants of the High God,
show me how I and all my household may be saved. We have
lived virtuously ; we have sought not in any manner to offend
what is holy ; we desire but to serve the Master of the skies.
" Entreat Him to descend in His might and wrestle with the
foulness that hath spread abroad over Philippi. Show me how I
may serve your God; instruct me in the manner in which we may
be saved."
Paul declared that through the baptism of water and through
faith in Christ would he and his children be saved. And he bade
this trembling Roman·utter with him the prayer of our Father.
When the words "Deliver us from evil" were spoken, the
jailer ceased shuddering, the peace that is of the Spirit stilled his
limbs.
He had quaked and been shaken by the horror of that death of
duty which he had sought in his anguish, when he had believed
that he had failed in his trust to those in authority. Paul had
rescued him from that sorrowful end ; and, he heaped upon him
many broken words of thankfulness. All his service and his life
he offered unto the Brethren.
They were sorely spent from suffering and from the night's
torment, so he led them to his dwelling. And his wife and slave
in that dim hour were roused from their swoon of terror, and were
bidden to tend to the grievous bodily hurts of the prisoners.
Precious ointments and cooling herbs did cause them ease of
being, and soon was Paul once more filled with burning zeal. He
forgot all save the rescue of these pagan souls from the darkness of
their unbelief and error.
He told them that the earthquake was not the work of demons.
It had been sent as a sign, so that all men who had passed that
night in Philippi should ever remember it, and should also bear
within their memory that the uprising of the earth had followed the
scourging Qf the servants of Je§us Christ.
"We are the least among men," declared the Apostle, "yet,
because we bear witness to the holy words of the Son of God, He
hath chosen to deliver us from the torment. of our bonds, to open
the prison doors for us. Thus shall many believe the words of our
Master Jesus. And I know that even the Rulers of Philippi will be
constrained by this testimony, and they will permit us to depart
in peace."
Then the jailer was baptised by Silas; and his wife and slave
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 219
asked that they too might share this blessing of water and be
cleansed from the impurity of their unbelief.
Yet this just man, who had such faith in Christ, doubted that
the saints would be pardoned. He feared they would be slain,
and besought them to put on his tunics, to change their countenance,
so that it might be as the face of another. Then he would have
them flee from the town southwards, taking little rest until they
had passed over the borders of Macedonia.
A pitcher holdeth but a measure of water. His mind was
emptied of thoughts of duty ; only zeal for the safety of the saints
possessed it.
Howsoever, Paul bade the jailer believe, for the Voice had placed
the words in his mouth concerning the pardon of the Magistrates,
and there was no cause for fear.
" They will come unto me, mayhap, and, after their fashion,
demand my pardon." Such was the bold speech of prophecy
which cometh not from the fearful flesh of man, but from without
his body, from his imperishable and invisible part.
CHAPTER X
SYNTICHE ENLISTS THE GOOD OFFICES OF JUNIUS
./ Now when darkness was swooping like some black being over
Philippi, Syntiche, filled with wrath and with fears for the saints,
sought out Junius, 1 one of Roman blood who was of her kin and
possessed much wealth. So was he held in high honour by the
Magistrates, such men regarding gold pieces as virtues, and ever
worshipping the deluding strength of the golden calf, which strength
is as naught when the Spirit' seeketh its own.
And Synti.che bowed herself before this Roman, entreating him
with many prayers to go unto the Chief Magistrate, and to tell him
that two just men had been falsely accused and must forthwith
be released from prison. For they preached peace and bade the
people go softly, obeying their masters, and ever heeding their
commands.
"They command obedience to th~> laws and to the Emperor.
They might, with their teaching, raise up pillars of security that
1 This name was first given as Felix; later it was written that Junius was his other
name, and he was subsequently referred to as Junius.
220 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
would bear the burden of the commonweal in days of peril. They
desire to render service to the town; they seek not its undoing."
And Junius made answer : " I may not meddle with such matters.
I know that these strangers are men of peace; I have hearkened
at times to their words. And, though I am no believer in gods,
and believe but in the demons that torment all men, high and low,
in their little span of life, yet, even if these strangers have not
offended in their speech, even if this riot was caused by their enemies,
I will not seek out the Magistrates and plead their cause. Where-
fore should I thus cumber myself with the wrongs of straying
slaves? "
Here did Syntiche cry out angrily, declaring that the saints
were not bondmen, they were of good repute and name.
Howbeit, Junius spoke, saying : " If they are not slaves they
are the l~ast among men. Such cattle do not concern us, 0 kins-
woman of mine. I will not, even for thee, demean myself and
entreat the Magistrates to pardon them." ·
Neither tears nor prayers would prevail with this man. He
mocked at his cousin, telling her that she had been fooled and was
the preyof the crafty and of the men without names, the common
Hebrews, who were but dirt upon the earth.
Then Syntiche rose up proudly, saying: "These are Roman
citizens, and ill will come to this town and its Rulers because they
have caused Silas and Paul to be smitten with rods. It is a shame
that shall not easily pass away from the fair name of Philippi."
Then was Junius much provoked, his countenance cast down;
and he reviled the Magistrates for their folly, and spoke unto his
kinswoman, saying; "I commend thee for thy wisdom in bearing
unto me this tale of injustice.
" The matter is of great import, for the whole city may suffer ;
the Chief Magistrate may be removed from his place of honour ;
a fine may be demanded from the people. There is no telling the
end of this evil. I will hasten unto the Rulers and will declare unto
them the great wrong that hath been dealt out to Roman citizens."
Now all those who were of Philippi prided themselves on their
kinship with Rome. They boasted that they were an example to
the people of other cities, because Roman order and rule were
faithfully followed in that'city.
And Junius was dismayed at the dire offence that had been
offered unto Paul and Silas. So, though night had cast its dark
embrace about the town, this rich man set forth, passing through
the still streets. And, having bidden Syntiche farewell, he went
forward from her door, his mind intent upon his purpose.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 221
CHAPTER XI
THE VISIT OF JUNIUS TO THE CHIEF MAGISTRATE
THE father of Clement had been, on that eve, a sore affliction to his
slaves and to his kindred. For he was still filled with rage against
the saints, who had caused him to tear his robes asunder. He
declared that he was bowed down with shame because, in the eyes
of the envoys, he was a reproach, and his praise of Philippi and its
people had appeared to them as lying boasting.
They had said one to another-and their word had been borne to
him-that he was a vain peacock who was without wit, who could
but spread his tail of folly in the sun, giving himself the glory,
imagining vain things. .
They would not tarry for the feast that was to be held on the
morrow, as that day of turmoil would not permit of its enjoyment.
And the Magistrate mourned because these strangers would go to
their towns bearing with them the tidings of his vainglory and of
his fall.
His wife would not bide in his company, so fierce were his words,
so likP. an old bereft scold was he. And only in the punishment of
his slaves could he find ease from his pain. Yet even that had not
power for long to charm him. He was not wholly evil, and so he
bade them seek rest and leave him to his perplexities.
The heavy air weighed upon his stout body and increased the
fret of his soul. He knew not how to bear the burden of his
affliction, and would have gone forth to pace the silent streets
if Junius had not entered the chamber.
And when his eyes lighted upon his wealthy friend he perceived
that there was much concern writ upon his countenance. It was
long, and drawn as a bow that is pulled by the archer. It bore
upon it, in the eyes of the woeful Magistrate, a fearfulness that
caused this Ruler to cry out, "Bear ye evil tidings? "
"Yea, sir, very evil," was the answer of Junius.
" There can be no greater evil than that which hath been com-
mitted," declared the old man. " I am indeed hardened to
affliction. There be few that have suffered as I have suffered in
these past hours. There can be no greater shame and tribulation
for me than what hath come to pass."
In this manner do ignorant men ever speak when th~ Lord lightly
chastises them. Of a truth they know naught of _
tribulation, and
222 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
deem the little thorns of life to be like unto the great piercing spears
of true trial and disaster.
When the Magistrate cast himself down with weary mutterings
and groans, Junius said unto him, "I am come unto thee at this
untoward time because I have learned that these men who were
scourged by your orders are Roman citizens. This is an ill thing
that hath been done. Haste to summon the Magistrates, so that
they may on the instant hold counsel. For we shall suffer severely
if these strangers seek to appeal, to make a noise concerning their
unlawful punishment.
" The tumult that arose in the town is a light trouble, but as a
feather on the wind when ye compare it with the injustice that hath
been done through the orders of our Rulers. Summon, therefore,
the council, and consult with them."
"I may not rouse them at this dead hour of night," declared the
old man. " I do not credit your tale ; it is but idle gossip that hath
been borne unto thee."
Now the father of Clement was as obstinate as a yoke of asses.
And, though Junius contended with him concerning this matter, he
would not yield, saying at the last that so cruel had been his misfor-
tunes this further ill could not have truth in it. Not even the gods
could continue thus to persecute him; their hearts could not ~e of
such stony hardness ; they would be softened at the sight of his ·
afflictions and no more torment him. Wherefore he would not
send messengers unto the Rulers ; he would now seek rest, else
would he perish from his weariness.
And, even as the old man declared that he could bear no more,
there came a thickening in the air. A breath like the flutter of a
bird passed through the chamber, and the torches winked, the light
seemed to darken.
And behold ! as the two men gaped upon one another, terror
causing them to stand straightly,making no sound, the chamber did
seem to move, strange noises came unto their ears, the ground
beneath their feet did shake, and they fell upon their faces moaning
and crying.
Then did all their wits for a space go from them. It seemed as if
they were in the grasp of some great being, and were cast about,
clawed and clutched at in the blackness. For the winking flames
had died ; there was naught but a dark void about them.
The measure of the night might not be counted in that dread
hour. For time is but as the spread of a bird's wings. It is and it
is not. Ye cannot in any manner set bounds upon it when the
whole being is ·possessed with fearfulness, when death appeareth
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 223
to come out of the far distance, to bend over you and give you
greeting.
Thus it was that, when a wise slave bore into the blackness light
from without, he perceived upon the ground, not those masters who
ruled all his days with sternness and with the menace of the rods ;
he saw only two gibbering, gaping fools, pitiable because of the
nakedness of their fear.
In a short space, when they had been restored by wine, and when
it was perceived that, though the house was seamed and rent in
divers places, yet was there no peril and it was whole, then did the
two, who had lain humbled upon the stones, no greater than the
beggars of the town, assume once more authority, giving forth .
commands, casting high looks about them.
CHAPTER XII
THE MAGISTRATES IN PERSON RELEASE PAUL AND SILAS
THERE entered within the chamber affrighted men bearing tidings of
the evil that had come upon Philippi.
"The earth hath given up the dead," cried one. "The bodies
are cast out from their cold beds." " The living people are all
devoured by the rocks and stones which the demons have flung up
at us from the depths," cried another. " I saw, when the rending
and shaking ceased, the white shapes of old men and women whose
faces have been hidden from us a score of years. ..,.hey did pass
up and down, and I knew that they were dead, and h. .:;tolen away
from the darkness of the kingdom below."
" The stars are all scattered; many have descended among the
vineyards in the country without the town," cried yet another.
"And these great lamps of Heaven are darkened and dimmed by
the wrath of the earth. Truly the end of life hath come, and all
shall be gathered away before the dawning of another day."
Again the Magistrate became fearful. Howbeit, he would not
show his dread to these people ; and he commanded the slaves to
clear the chamber. Then, in the quiet, the two men and the wise
slave did wait for the strokes of the gods, that would in their belief-
for all men believe in the hour of peril-destroy Philippi and mayhap
the whole earth.
Howsoever, the dawn looked out once more from the dark
224 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
casement of the night. And when it dimmed the glimmer of the
rush-lights the Chief Magistrate sighed, saying : " Our days are
not yet ended."
"The beast hath passed," muttered the slave.
"We must consider what lieth before us," said Junius. "Sir,
the prisoned stranger hath been forgotten by thee."
" Thou speakest of the men who were scourged ? " the Magistrate
asked. "Forasmuch as they assuredly bore ill to this town let us
not keep them in our minds. Let them bide where they lie."
"Master," declared the wise slave," it is meet that thou shouldst
speedily deal with them. Thou knowest not what secret harm may
be caused by their presence among us."
Now this man spoke boldly at all times when he was alone with
the Magistrate, for the Ruler was like unto an empty vessel, and it
was needful that-the wine of another's wit should fill it. Wherefore
he hearkened fo the voice of his slave, oft seeking his counsel.
And he turned to the servant, saying : " Who and what are these
people who trouble our peace, who cause many to rise up and make
tumult ?"
The slave answered him, saying: "Some men declare they are
the children of the flying evil that pa.
c;.c;ed over Philippi, shadowing
it with its wings this night."
" And thou wouldst have us believe that they put spells upon the
ground," asked the Magistrate, "causing theli foul father to rise
from within it and cast about our town as a ship is pitched and
tossed upon the sea? "
"Even so, master," the slave answered. "These strangers are
not like unto Romans, nor unto Jews or Greeks. They cried not
out when they were punished with the rods ; when their blood did
flow no moaning passed from their lips. They are not mortal ; and I
would have thee know they raised no insurrection among the Jews.
That was an idle tale borne unto thee by the guard, who desired to
win thy favour. These two strangers speak in an untoward manner.
They utter words that are not seemly concerning the State. Yet
they did not in any manner seek to stir up the people, to seize upon
authority.
" They seem not to suffer as we suffer ; their talk is not as ours.
They are mayhap the spawn of gods who mated with the daughters
of men , or they are begotten by the flying evil, as is the belief of
many. Fear them, but let them go hence. They caused the earth
to quake, the hood of night to clasp all Philippi in such folds of
blackness many feared the light would come no more unto us. Be
wary, therefore, in your dealings with the stranger."
THE THIRD PARCHMENT zzs
Now both Junius and the Ruler declared they believed not in such
folly. The gods, they said, were vain imaginings. These two were
but as other men. Yet, even as the Magistrate and the rich
merchant thus denied the words of the wise slave, they, in their
hearts, believed in them. For they held that the strange terrors
of the night had been designed by some power unseen, and they
were fretted lest this power should set upon them severally, and
mayhap destroy them.
So, after the Ruler had called his slave "many times a fool, and
the son of generations of fools," he bade him summon the Magis-
trates, ~it was needful that they should consult together concerning
the quaking of the earth.
And when these greybeards met once more their talk dealt not
with the safety of the people and the shaking of the ground ; they
spoke but of the two men from whom it would seem there had
sprung all the ills of the night, and all the tumult of the day that
was passed.
"We fear them," they murmured. "They ·will, if they remain
among us, raise up much wickedness ; they will be as a nest of vipers.
Let us, therefore, send them forth from our town, so that their
poison may be spread in other cities where men are not wary and
watchful."
And the serjeant was summoned, and bidden to go unto the
prison, and to command the jailer to loose the two who were in his
charge ; and he was to command them to go hence from Philippi,
and yet not to menace them, but to treat them with all civility.
When the serjeant delivered the word of the Rulers to the jailer,
he went gladly into the presence of the saints, telling them that of
a truth their God had worked a miracle; they might depart in
peace and no harm would be done unto them.
But Paul demanded that the serjeant should deliver unto him
the order of the Rulers, and spoke haughtily in answer to him,
saying: " We are Roman ci .izens ; we will not steal away as if we
were men of no repute or name. We are not thankful to your
Rulers for what ye call their mercy. Return unto them and instruct
them concerning the offence that hath been committed by them.
We were smitten with rods without trial, and we might cause much
harm to come unto Philippi if this were mad~ known. It is well
for the Rulers that they did not scourge us after what they would
deem a trial, else would they have suffered grievously. We shall
not go forth from Philippi until the Magistrates themselves have
come unto us and declared their error."
The serjeant was amazed at the hardihood of Paul; but so
Pc
226 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
quelled was he by his presence and his utterance he disputed not
his bidding, bearing his tally of words to those in authority.
" There is no end to misfortune when once it enteretli within
our dwelling," declared the Chief Magistrate. And he was greatly
angered because he might not be angry with these men, because he
dared not visit the heat of his wrath upon them.
He rose up, put on his robes, and went unto the prison. And,
when he was in the presence of the saints, Paul admonished him,
showing his knowledge of the law, and seeking with sharp words to
scourge these Rulers, even as he had been scourged by them.
And they dared not in any manner contravene his utterance, for
they knew that they were in his power, having erred against him.
Wherefore the Chief Magistrate humbled himself to the dust before
the saints, not commanding them, but beseeching them for the sake
of the peace of the city to go hence.
And, as Paul knew that if he defied·the Magistrates he might do
harm in hindering the spreading of the teaching of the Gospel, he
therefore gave his promise that he would turn his back upon Philippi
forthwith.
CHAPTER XIII
LUKE'S GRIEF OVER PHILIPPI
Now the saints departed from the house of the jailer and they went
to the abode of Lydia, and there they were welcomed by Luke and
Timothy. These two brothers in Christ told them of the night's
happenings. They had gone in the company of Syntiche to the door
of the house of Junius. And then it had been deemed wiser that
they should withdraw and pray for her while she pleaded with her
kinsman.
For many hours they entreated the Lord for the prisoners, and
besought Him to soften the hearts of the Rulers. For it was held
by many that they would sentence Paul and Silas to death on the
morrow.
And they welcomed the shaking of the earth, looking upon it as
a sign that they had not been deserted by the Lord their God. And
they rose up when the quaking ceased, going forth among the people,
comforting them as they passed to and fro, crying out with fear,
some among them crazed with the terror of this mighty sign of what
they deemed was the wrath of the Invisible because they had made
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 227
a tumult, and had evilly treated the Slaves of the Fearful One, as
they called Paul and Silas.
Then was a council held. Timothy, Paul, Silas, Luke, and
another brother in Christ communed together concerning the Church
in Philippi.
And the Philippian declared that such was the ignorance of the
common people they would in truth hail the two saints as evil
magicians if they went once more among them. He spoke of the
Gentiles, not of the Jews of that city. Wherefore he deemed that
Paul should go hence, and should, in the company of Silas, seek out
the tribe of the Hebrews in Thessalonica.
There they might find many who would hearken unto the Gospel
and they would not in any manner offend ; for the Magistrates
were less easily stirred up in that city; and, if the Jews within it
came to believe in Christ, they might strengthen those who were of
the Church in Philippi.
Now Lydia was summoned, and, when she learned that Paul and
Silas must go hence, she was greatly afflicted. She besought them
to abide in secret in her dwelling ; to remember that time beareth
forgetfulness with it ; that when a season was passed they might
go forth once more among the people.
Howbeit, Luke declared that the Magistrates were sorely dis-
mayed ; that they would learn that Paul and Silas tarried within
their city ; and, because they feared them, they would cast them
out and mayhap cause them to be secretly ill-treated ; so it was
needful for the sake of the Church that they should depart
forthwith.
After Paul had readied himself for the journey in the day that
followed, Luke came unto him and was cast down in spirit, and
spoke unto the Apostle, saying: "I have lost faith, and doubts
pursue me. No rest was mine in the night hours. For all my
mind hath l;>een shaken by the shame of Philippi."
And Paul questioned him concerning this shame. Then the
physician answered him, saying: "Master, the world is a wilder-
ness, and men are as the untamed earth in all the cities of the
Empire. Yet I held that the people of Philippi were not as those
of other towns. I believed that this city of mine was as a garden
of herbs, as a fruitful place to a stony land. Now I am confounded,
for I perceive that the people of this town are but as others, and I
have assuredly done an ill thing in beseeching thee to come across
the sea to Philippi."
Then Paul said unto him: "Brother, have I not told thee that
the day would come when thou wouldst give thy love unto all
228 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
citieS, when thou wouldst no more choose this home of thine, giving
unto it all the riches of thy heart ? "
And here did Luke speak once more, saying : " What of thy
vision at Troas? The tale of it greatly uplifted me, and it caused
faith to burn within me and joy to reign in my soul. Now is that
vision a parable without sense or reason in my sight. Wherefore
was it given unto thee? For behold, the people are set against
thee, and all our labours are in vain.
" Those who believed are falling away through fear. I am one
who is dumb when I seek to speak unto an assembly of the people.
Thou wouldst give Philippi into my charge, and I am not worthy
or able to bear this burden."
Then Paul sought to comfort him, saying: "It hath been the
will of God that we should be cast out and that thou shouldst abide·
here in the company of Tim?thy. Let us welcome this ruling.
It may be that the time hath come when thou shouldst be as the
one shepherd of a flock that is dispersed. In this manner thou
shalt learn to be master of thy speech ; thou wilt in truth spread
the teaching of the Gospel with greater wisdom than a stranger
among thine own people.
"For thou knowest their ways, and the Spirit will come unto
thee, setting in thy mouth the words of truth that will win the
people. Wherefore be not cast down because of the ill thing that
hath been done in Philippi. Learn from it that thine own city is
no greater than another ; that there are foolish and ignorant men
in all towns of the earth ; and let ye severally believe that they
may yet be won for Christ through the infinite mercy of God."
CHAPTER XIV
LUKE RECOVERS THE MAGICIANS' MAID AFTER SHE HAS BEEN
BEATEN
Now when the tumult was ended, the withered men returned unto
their abode, still sore at heart, for the maid had not once been
possessed by the Serpent of Knowledge since the hour when Paul
had cast him forth from her body.
There had been led unto her men of wealth, who desired tidings
of gold, tidings of love, or tidings concerning the falseness of their
slaves or of their wives. And the maid had remained dumb in their
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 229
presence. She could not utter ; the player who did draw for her
the melody from thP. Invisible no longer governed her being.
And the witheren men had many times rebuked her. They
would indeed have pwiished her with rods if the old woman, who
was the wife of the eldest of them, had not forbidden such torment.
This woman was named Maena, and she was barren. Wherefore
she loved the girl, and had in_past times cherished her at the bidding
of the withered men. For they had caused the inaid to live softly,
so that she might not lose the gift of knowledge.
Thus it was that Maena came to love one who was but a slave,
who was dear to her as the bird in the nest is to its mother.
She led the maid away from the ·tormentors, comforting her,
speaking kind words. Yet was the girl filled with fearfulness, for
she had lived as free from care as the flowers till the invading spirit
had been cast from her.
And she asked of Maena whether she could guard her from the
rods in the coming days if still the dumbness held, if the Serpent
would not utter.
The old woman sighed, saying that she doubted her power, which
lay but in hard and bitter words. If her husband were besotted
with wine, then he would not heed. and no man could at such times
come between him and his purpose.
Now the maid was summoned into the presence of a merchant
by her masters. And one of them, drawing her into the dimness,
did show her a goad, saying that he would bruise her with it if she
remained dumb, and did not render unto the stranger the tale of
words concerning his destiny, which he desired.
Then was the maid led before him ; and she closed her eyes,
silently beseeching the Serpent to 'enter within her once more.
But it would not come ; and the stranger waited for the tidings
sought by him.
And, as she made no sound, his patience went from him. He
questioned her concerning his house and the goods with which he
traded. He sold precious stones, and he had many in his posses-
sion at that time. He asked of the Serpent whether he would sell
them for much gold, and whether the house that had been builded
by him for his bride would please her. And would they dwell
therein? And would they prosper, living in ease and plenty?
And, because of her fear, the maid made pretence that the invad-
ing spirit was once more within her, and spoke with her lips. She
declared that the merchant would prosper, that he would sell these
precious stones for much gold, and that his riches would increase
with the years. It was ordained that he should live in the house
230 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
he had builded till the span of his life was ful6lled, and it would
bear to him ease and gladness.
Then the merchant rejoiced. And he praised the maid to her
masters, saying that many of his friends had obtained true tidings
from her in past days. So was he assured of the truth of the words
she uttered concerning him.
And the withered men set a costly robe upon the girl, and it
was a sign of their pleasure because she could once more earn
moneys for them.
Howbeit, there was great uneasiness in the mind of this child.
She lay in the darkness on the night of the quaking of the earth,
counting as beads upon a thread her many fearful doubts concerning
the words she had uttered, which werenot the words of her master,
the Serpent of Knowledge.
And, as one who was young and unlearned, she believed, when
the earth was cast about, that it was a sign sent unto her alone.
It was the Serpent who thus declared his wrath because she had
spoken as with his words.
When day came once more she went forth from the place wherein
she slept, seeking the old woman. And behold, when she entered
into the dwelling, she perceived upon the ground the one who had
cherished her. She stirred not when the maid called. She lay as
if sleeping.
Then, as the girl drew closer, her eyes fell upon a dark stain of
blood, and she saw that the old woman had a grievous wound in
her side.
She called her name once more. Then did the workers of magic
enter within the chamber, and one cried out, saying: "Astone from
the wall fell upon her ; she is dead. Seek not, therefore, to rouse
Maena, who will return no more."
And, even as they spoke roughly to her because she had not
given them tidings of the rending of the earth, there came into their
presence the merchant who had sought the counsel of the. maid
when it was held that the Serpent possessed her.
And he was very wrathful, demanding his money from the keepers
of the girl. And he declared that they were robbers and liars.
" Behold, my house hath been torn into many pieces, rent like an
old cloth. At the dawning of the day robbers came into my riven
dwelling, and I am despoiled of all my treasure. My house is not ;
my fortune is not. I am as the beggar of the roads. And this girl
hath lied unto me. I shall declare her tale to all men. And ye
shall learn through tribulation no more to deceive honest and
worthy people."
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 231
In this manner the merchant lamented and menaced the maid,
so that the darkness of a great fear gathered all about her and fever
twisted her mind. Strange cries she uttered, and wildly did she
moan when her masters came upon her with rods.
And her terror caused her to faint away. Many hours passed
before she was once more whole in mind.
The three workers in magic, who were sorely afflicted, did seek
through the drinking of much wine to comfort themselves, and to
strengthen them in their hatred of the maid and in their purpose of
punishment.
For now they knew that, even if the spirit on•ce more possessed
the slave, the people would not hearken to it; tllley would declare
its words were false.
So when evening was come they dragged her •out from the hole
wherein she lay, and they smote her with m<my strokes, thus
quenching the pain of their blind wrath and greed.
The time came when she cried no more, and lay so still they
deemed 'that she was dead. And they bore her into the dimness
of the night, determining that they would cast Jber body into the
river and speak no more of her. For their wrath was spent, and
they feared in their hearts lest some evil might light upon them if
her spirit was now joined with that other powerful spirit that had
come upon her from the Invisible at times.
And one among them said: "Let us bear her body to the door
of Lydia's dwelling. The men who have been the cause of all our
misfortune, and have thereby caused the death c::>f the maid, have
been freed from the prison and abide within this house. Let them
perceive the evil they have wrought, and, peradventure, people
will believe they have slain the maid."
Then were these wicked men glad, for they held that they would
thus be avenged upon Paul. And vengeance was even dearer to
them than gold.
Now Luke rose while it was yet dark, because he could not sleep,
the saints having determined to go from Philippi on the morrow.
And still the shame that was his because of the evil wrought by
the people of his city devoured his whole being, so that he could
find no peace anywhere. And even the power to pray was gone
from him. For shame is like a demon that entereth within the
man, driving out the ruler and governor, seizing upon his whole
mind.
All the doors of Lydia's dwelling were fast closed, and Luke
could not enter therein. Wherefore he wandcered to and fro,
waiting for the first bud of the dawn.
232 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
And behold, dark shapes came from out the greyness, and men
passed him by, bearing some burden with them.
Luke halted and stirred not, fearing they were thieves and had
some treasure in their possession, which they sought to bear away
before the breaking of the day.
Greatly amazed was he when they set down what he deemed
was a precious charge upon the road, and then hastened from it
without sound, passing into the pale night.
Once more the saint was alone, and once more his shame besieged
his mind, so that it was not until the eye of day opened in the skies
that he halted beside the dark burden that had been laid down at
the door of the seller of purple.
He swiftly perceived that this was not what he deemed it-that
it was the body of a girl who lay like a withered flower on the earth.
Now Luke forgot his own pain in the affliction of another. His
heart was stirred with a great compassion, and he sought to draw
the fluttering spirit once more into the tom body.
When breath came once more from the lips of the maid, he bore
her in his arms to Lydia's door, and, having roused a slave through
his knoc~ing, he sought out her mistress ; and together they tended
the girl, who was waked from her swoon through the care of the
physician.
CHAPTER XV
HOW THE MAGICIANS' MAID WAS PRESERVED
IT was a time of preparation. Fear of those in authority had,
like a cruel frost, parched up the zeal of many. There was much
coming and going, and Lydia and a few Brethren, who were faithful
believers in Christ, gathered together about the departing saints,
so that they might hearken unto sweet counsel and hear within their
memory their exhortation and their blessing in coming days.
Now Paul sought rest when he had comforted these afflicted
ones. And it came to pass that he, for a short space, abode alone,
all withdrawing so that he might secure the needful repose before
his journey, upon which he would set out in the company of Silas
in the cool of day.
He had not learned of the coming of the girl, for the fret and
hurry of the hours and matters of great import had led Luke to
keep his lips closed concerning her. Wherefore, when Paul arose
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 233
and went forth from the chamber, he knew not the girl who lay in a
shelter without.
He perceived that she was sick; and, as was his wont, he spoke
unto her words of cheer. But she rose up declaring that he sought
to bring harm upon her, and she was mightily. provoked, crying
out blasphemous words.
Then did Paul seek to quieten her. And again she reproached
him, pouring forth speech that was like unto a polluted stream,
raising such clamour Luke entered within the chamber. And when
he perceived the girl he divined that the demons did wrestle for
her. And he made a sign unto Paul to draw away, for he feared
the life might go from the slave, forasmuch as all her bones did
shake and her wounds burst forth and bled.
So, while Luke succoured her, tending these hurts, Paul knelt
down and prayed that the blast of God might not smite her, for
still she continued to utter foul blasphemies.
And behold, the Master of Herbs, with his soothing touch and
gentle acts, compelled the sufferer to come out of her frenzy. The
evil words, that seemed to be uttered by some man, who spoke
deeply and strongly, ceased from sounding through that chamber.
The child lay there white and still, all the strange evil gone from
her face.
Now that she was quieted, the Brethren communed together
concerning her. And Luke told them the tale she had given unto
him in the early day concerning her punishment by the withered
men, and how they had cast her down, when she lay in a swoon, at
the door of Eudias, such being a name by which Lydia was known.
Now slaves were, in the eyes of most men, accounted as the beasts
of the field. Oft-times, if they were weak and ill-made, they were
accounted lower than the sheep, the oxen, or the asses.
And one of the Brethren, a Philippiaii, said unto the saints :
" This maid is but a chattel ; she was bought for a price by the
workers of magic. Let her be borne unto them again. If they
learn that the girl liveth and is within this house, they will declare
that Lydia stole her away from them in the night-time, and evil
will come of it."
Luke made answer : " She is a child, and our Master Christ hath
bidden us cherish the little ones. Still is she in her early years.
These men will slay her in their wrath if she is yielded up to them."
"Thou mayest not rob a man of his beast," declared another;
"thou canst not withhold from him his slave, one who hath not a
spirit within her, who is no better than the dumb crea:tures who do
move about the earth."
J
234 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Then Silas lifted up his voice, saying : " Hearken unto the words
of Christ concerning the bondman and the bondwoman. He
declared the bond as well as the free are the: children of our Father
in Heaven. Do therefore unto them wha.t ye would that they
should do unto you. If they serve you wtell, praise them, giving
them meat and raiment. If they serve yo•u ill, punish them not
with strokes, but show them that, as ye deal righteously with them,
so should they render unto you the same measure.
" Strive with their ignorance. Let them learn that in each build-
ing every stone hath its appointed place. Some are hidden away
and bear the burden of many ; and thus d•o they fulfil their part.
Some are beautifully wrought, are set in the high places, and delight
the eye ; yet they do but fulfil their part also. Wherefore it is meet
that ye should render unto the bondman the love ye would render
unto a brother, cherishing him in his need,, succouring him in his
afHiction.
"Such was the teaching of our Master Jfesus. Now this maid,
who is but a child, will assuredly die if she is returned unto the
workers of magic, who are workers of evil. The foul words she hath
uttered were set in her heart by them, the blasphemies she hath
cried were the blasphemies they spoke in her presence when they
conversed with one another.
" Let the Brethren seek, therefore, to buy this maid from her
masters, so that her life may be saved, so that her spirit may not
go down into the Pit."
And the will of the Bre~hren was declared unto Lydia, and she
sought out one of her kin who believed not in Christ, yet was a good
man who desired to serve her.
The maid was borne into his house privily. Then he went unto
the workers of magic and offered them a price for the maid, whom,
he declared, he had found lying upon the road.
Now if these men had known .hat the gold was Lydia's they
would have rejected it, for they knew that: she had sheltered the
saints; but, as it was rendered unto them by a stranger, they gladly
received it ; and thus was the maid freed from her bondage.
When she was once more whole she served in the household of the
seller of purple. And for a short space she was evil in her utterance,
and would not believe in the living God.
Howsoever, Luke strove with Satan for her soul. And it came to
pass that because she loved the Master of Herbs, who had tended
her in her sore sickness, he prevailed in the la.tter end. And she was
baptised after a season had passed, becomin1g. as the other slaves in
the household of Lydia, a member of the Clilurch of Christ.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 235
CHAPTER XVI
THEMESIUS CAUSES TROUBLE : THE HEALING OF CLEMENT
Now, after Paul and Silas had set out upon their journey for
Amphipolis, Luke strove to·gather the believers together once more.
And some for a space made pretence, because t~ey feared Lydia,
that they were faithful brethren in Christ.
But the wind of evil talk passed through the city. Themesius
sought to make war upon the saints, and many and wicked were
his devices.
He went in unto Lydia and spoke words that were smooth as
milk. He declared what he called the mind of the rich Philippians
-"All are turned against this Jesus. They believe that He is not
a God, but a demon ; that He hath caused the earth to quake, and
that further ills will fall upon Philippi if the ]iews hearken unto
His followers."
And Lydia answered him, saying : " Thou hast gone about the
town making a noise like a dog, setting fears in the hearts of the
people. I know thy ways, thou crafty one. I will not hearken
unto thee, for I believe that Jesus is the Sinless One, and that He
was hanged upon a tree so that all, through His dying, should be
saved if they repented and believed. Go hencce and trouble me
no more."
Then did Themesius menace her, and his words were like wasps,
and poisoned Lydia's peace ; for he declared unt'o her that he had
desired her in marriage, and that if she would not yield unto him
he would set the rich men and women of the town against her, so
that they would not buy goods from her. He would affright them
with tales concerning her zeal for Paul and SilaH, her zeal for the
God of the stranger. Then would she suffer loss, and all her trading
go from her.
And Lydia answered him, saying: "If it is needful, I shall sur-
render my house and all my possessions for the sake of Jesus, my
God. I would be a beggar and a slave rather than give up my faith
in Christ. There is no adversity that can cause me to falter or to
fail. For my belief is more than my life to me, more than all the
treasures of earth. Wherefore thou mayest rage as thou wilt
against me ; I shall not yield."
And Themesius fulfilled his menaces, for he was devoured by a
base anger. He sought out those who bought rich apparel and
spoke cunningly unto them, so that they went no more to buy goods
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEO:PHAS
from Lydia. And she found that her trade dlwindled, that the robes
fashioned by -those who worked for her were not sold, and daily she
lost money, yet she feared naught. Sb.e desired but to work for the
Master Christ. And so, though her possessions in this world .
dwindled, she gathered a goodly·store in Heaven.
Howbeit, those who had for a short space still held to their faith
in Christ, now, through fear, did cast His Cmss from them. Because
of the hatred of the people, they sought one another no more in the
fellowship of prayer, in the breaking of bread, in the tasting of wine,
in all observances of the saints.
And when Luke visited these wavering, affright~d Brethren, he
learned from them that they had been menaced by those who traded
with them, who bought of their goods, or who benefited them in kind.
And the Jews declared: "We believe thy words are true, and
we would, if the teachings of Christ found favour with those in
authority, gladly hold fast to the doctrines you teach and to our
faith in Christ. But we may not lose all for Him. We have wives
and children. It is needful we should earn our daily bread. We
cannot, therefore, serve thy Master, who dwelUeth in one world while
we dwell in another."
I have told you that,when Luke lifted uphis voice in the assembly,
speech would fail him. Yet wa.S he a cunning scribe, and could set
down on parchment all the wondrous sayings of the Master.
And now he perceived that the time had come when it was needful
that he should speak out boldly, not fearing, not caring, giving unto
the people the gold of his written word.
For many days no saint had preached by the riverside. Tidings
had been borne unto them privily that the Magistrates would
punish anyone who spoke thus openly of Christ. So only certain
Jews assembled on the Sabbath together, pra.ctising the observanceS
according to the law of Moses.
It was the early season of the year. And it came to pass that,
on the Sabbath, at the time when these peop!le would disperse, Luke
rose up among them, calling unto them to bide with him, for he
would give them tidings of the mystery that lieth beyond the tomb.
And, even as he raised up his voice and silence fell upon all, there
did sound in his hearing noble and beautiful speech ; and as it came
unto him word by word he did utter it.
"Brethren, some among you have doubted and feared. Ye
have not known, even through baptism,,the Spirit that descendeth
upon those who yearn for it in all singleness of heart. Without
the blessing of the Spirit ye shall indeed fail, and your prayers
shall be as empty in their sounding as the lonely wind.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT ~37
" Wherefore do ye thus falter arid fall away? Ye have not
faith ; ye cannot believe that, if ye believe, ye shall have with you
the All Powerful One, ye shall be guarded and guided by the Holy
Spirit of God.
" Believe, therefore, in Christ, and ye shall not lose all, but gain
all ; ye shall win to perfect peace and understanding in the Kingdom
of our Father.
" The life of the body is as the life of the young grass ; it groweth
up, withereth, and passeth away. But all ye' men of Philippi
possess souls, which do not thus pass away ; which pass from out
what is but a vain show, a bewilderment, into the clear light of
the world to come.
" Therefore let ye give no more thought to the needs of the body.
Let all your heart be set on the needs of the soul. Is the raiment of
man, forsooth, of greater worth than man ? The hour cometh
when the Spirit shall reign upon the earth, when this town, this
land of yours, shall go hence, passing away as a. season, breaking
up, dissolving.
"Hasten, therefore, before that dread time t•o prepare for the
life of the Spirit. Have faith in Jesus, who is truly the Messiah.
Believe on Him and ye ·shall be saved."
Now Clement had come unto the assembly because he had
learned that words might be uttered concerning Jesus. And he
desired to make a tumult among the Jews, whom he hated. He
rose up, therefore, crying out upon Luke, declaring : " This man
is one of those who plotted against the Emperor and the
common-weal. Let him be cast forth from :Philippi, and we
shall thus be freed from this evil brood that came across the seas
unto us."
Then did certain youths, who were not of Jutdrea, seek to lay
hands upon Luke. An~ they cast him to the ground ; and he
would have died, mayhap, beneath the feet of many, if certain
Jews, who had been angered by the whispered mockery of Clement's
followers, had not_made a ram of their living bodies, casting them-
selves against the people, causing them to scatt~r and disperse
before them. ·
Then some cried, " Peace l Let us go quietly to our homes."
And there was a silence, a stilling, as when the wind is
hushed and its brother tarrieth, not speeding from out another
quarter.
Howbeit, the hearts of men are evil when their blood is stirred.
One slung a stone, and it smote the forehead of Clement. He was
fell'ed to the ground, and other stones followed,, and many were
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
the hurts of the Greeks and the Jews. And there would have been
a bloody and grievous tumult if word had not been borne by a Jew
that the guard was coming in all haste.
Whereupon the assembly was dispersed as wheat-ears in harvest.
Soon there remained by the riverside only the two saints, Timothy
and Luke, and one who was a faithful brother and server.
He said unto them : "Tidings of this new turmoil will be borne
unto the Magistrates. Assuredly ye will be seized, and mayhap
ye will be condemned to death. Let us hasten to my dwelling,
and there shall ye l;>e hidden till this tumult is forgotten."
And Luke and Timothy went in the company of this brother to
his abode. And because there fell a grievous hail, and it thundered,
no man stayed them ; the guard went not abroad tillit was overpast.
And thus were Luke and Timothy in a sure and safe hold when
search was made for them.
It came to pass that Clement became sick unto death ; for there
arose a fever from the wound in his forehead. Wherefore his
parents were much distraught ; he was the one son of their age,
and great was their yearning for him.
Those who had skill in the tending of wounds were all summoned
to him, and they declared that he would die, that naught but a
marvel would save him. They said unto the Magistrate, "if it is
the·gods' pleasure his life may be saved, but no skill of man can
keep within the body the fleeing spirit."
Then the mother mourned and lamented, and all the day she
cried out against her husband, reproaching him for this great
sorrow. And he was distraught because he could not in any
manner silence her.
Howbeit, the wise slave counselled him, saying : " Let ye gather
together certain noble women, and mayhap, if they come in unto
her, they will comfort her and hush her cries. Let her not perceive
thee any more, and let these who are her friends be assembled
about her."
And behold, when four of the women of repute in Philippi bided
in her chamber, the wife of the Magistrate ceased from her crying.
And, having reviled her husband for a short space, she remembered
once more her sorrow, and asked of these women whether they
knew any marvel which might be wrought that would preserve her
son alive.
Three of them in turn did counsel her to be prepared for the
passing of the youth, to resign herself to what was the will of the
gods.
And, even as they spoke, Syntiche, who was the fourth woman,
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 239
cried out : " It is not the will of the gods, forasmuch as there is
but the living God, who ruleth all the world, who did send His Son
to walk upon the earth for a brief while in the guise of man.
" Behold, this Son of the Most High did give unto certain of His
Disciples the promise of the gift of the Holy Ghost. And those
who were thus dowered can work marvels if it be the will of God.
One of these men abideth in Philippi, and assuredly, if he will
entreat the Lord, his Master, he can call back Clement from the
gates of death."
Then the mother besought Syntiche to send in all haste for this
worker of marvels, for her son was dying.
Syntiche declared unto her : " This man is named Luke, and he
was the preacher at the riverside when the tumult arose, it being
devised by his enemies so that he might be cast into prison. For
they hate him and are jealous of him. Now, if tihe Ruler maketh
a vow that this holy saint shall go free, and shall be held in honour
in this town, then will I discover him unto you and he will heal
your son."
And the mourning mother straightway gave orders that her
husband should be summoned, and the tale of Luk•e and the needful
vow were related unto him.
He was one who, even in the hour of his sorrow,. desired to abide
by the rule and observance. Wherefore he declared himself on
this wise:
"If the offender can save the life of my son, I will let him go in
peace, but he must not tarry in this city. He shall not continue
to cause disorder to arise among the people. Such is my will. If
he cannot cure Clement he shall be bound and put in hold."
Syntiche was wroth, and would not, she said, dis;cover the Master
of Herbs for those who might evilly handle him. And the Magis-
trate menaced her, for he declared that she was plotting against
the commonweal. Yet she held firmly to her words. And the
sorrowful mother cried out upon her husband, so• that he yielded
in a measure, though not in full measure.
It was determined that, if Luke failed to cure the dying son, he
would be given his freedom and would be banished from the town.
If he worked a marvel, and drew back the life once more into the
body, he might dwell in peace in Philippi, and honour would be
rendered unto him.
So Luke passed once more through the streets of the city, and
was led unto the sick man, who lay as in a swoon, his body wasted,
his colouring of a strange blueness, as if the limbs had already died
and were but as the clay to which they should retum.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Many came within the chamber. And no word was uttered as
Luke passed his hands over the youth ; ;and he drew from the
vessel certain juices of herbs, anointing tile wounded parts, with
careful hands binding up what was needfuLl. And, as the people
watched, Luke knelt down, praying unto ,our Lord Jesus Christ,
beseeching Him that this youth might not pass hence while still
he was in the bloom of his years.
And in the after-time some declared tha.t they had seen about
the fingers of the saint a white mist that was pale as the dews of
dawn. It rested above the wound upon the brow ; and the Master
of Herbs, who had arisen, held his hands outspread as if in blessing,
and ever the whiteness hovered below them, seeming to gather
and verily to enter within the wounded part.
Now, in the after-time, some declared that they perceived a flower
like unto a flame above the head of the sai.Jnt, and there streamed
from out its glow the ,white radiance that came from beneath the
fingers of the one who thus stood beside the dying man.
Howbeit, others declared that they saw maught ; yet they were
smitten with a dumbness, a stilling of all their parts, S!) that it
would seem as if their bodies were not of them, were drawn
away.
The spell of silence was broken by the siglhing of the young man,
whose limbs stirred, whose arms were raised to Luke's ; and then
fell back once more as the Master of Herbs sitroked the air above his
limbs and whispered words that no man could understand.
When the stroking was ended, he tumed him about, passing
through the press of the people, uttering no word ; and upon his
face was graven the sickness and the sufferimg of the youth.
He had asked that he should abide alone in the hours that followed
upon his work. And when he came forlth once more into the
presence of the people the strange image of another's pain, another's
weakness, was gone from his countenance.
And behold, Clement also was changed. The fleeing spirit
returned once more into his body, the bloom of life appeared once
more upon his limbs; and he, who had been dumb for many days,
asked for water and for food.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
CHAPTER XVII
LUKE FAILS TO HEAL JUNIUS
Now it came to pass that there was much talk among the
people concerning the miracle of healing wrought by the Master
of Herbs. And in the closets of the city there was whispering
among men of repute concerning this Jesus who was named
the Christ by Luke and by the strangers who had been of His
company.
I would have you know that when the Master of Herbs abode at
Philippi before the coming of the saints, he had hearkened unto the
talk of the men of repute and learning. And because they spoke
much of the corruption of the times, of the failing of righteousness
and virtue, and that no man knew of God or had understanding of
the mystery of life and death, Luke had judged that these men
were prepared for the sowing of the seed of the Word ; the hour was
with them when they could joyfully receive the light and the truth,
being one in Christ.
Howbeit, when Paul and Silas were come unto Philippi, these
men of repute and of learning would not visit the assembly by the
riverside. And in a later time they could not perceive that the
tumult and scandal that arose were but as the foam upon the wave.
So they did draw themselves away, and they turned themselves
about, blushing as a woman.
Ye will perceive through all the ages, in every land, that th~ men
of repute and learning will, like their kin in Philippi, hold in scorn
what is new and strange. And because of the contention of lewd
persons, and because of the turmoil made by the common people,
they will not entertain the doctrines that are taught, however true
they be, however beautiful.
Now, after the healing of Clement the Chief Magistrate held a
feast in honour of Luke. And there were bidden to it those in
authority in the town. Wherefore there came a change in the
minds of those learned persons who had derided the teachings of
Paul, who had declared that there was no more reason in his words
than in the babbling of the waters of a brook.
They said one to another : " Who is this Jesus ? Who is this Son
of God of whom the stranger hath spoken ? In past times Luke did
heal the sick with cooling herbs, yet he did not cause to halt any of
those who were bound for the shores of death. Now, in the name
of this Jesus, he hath drawn back from the Kingdom of the Invisible
Qc
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
the spirit of Clement ; he hath caused a body that was dead to come
alive. Let us enquire into this matter."
So, in the days that followed the feast, Luke was once more
sought out by the men of repute who would not hold speech with
him when he was in the company of Paul. And they asked him to
give them tidings of these new doctrines which had been preached
by the stranger.
"For the wisdom of our fathers appeareth in our eyes to be
vanity," they declared unto him.
And Luke made answer : " It is well thatt ye should have such
understanding in this matter of knowledge. For, of a truth, in
past days ye possessed but the treasures of darkness ; ye did study
the learning of the fallen spirits, and ye believed in their cunning
words.
"Yet is such knowledge as theirs bitter as the sea; it is as worm-
wood and ashes, bearing unto men a rottenness that causeth his
soul to decay and foulness to corrupt the whole being."
" Behold, Jesus my Master hath borne into this world the treasures
of light, knowledge that is pure and undefiled, that true wisdom
which cometh only from the source of all life, from the living God."
And Luke declared unto these Philippians many of the sayings of
Jesus, and he did show them that this world was as a dim chamber
in which were fearsome shadows and strange evils. Whereas the
Kingdom of Christ was as beautiful and free as the wide earth
before men and beasts walked upon it.
"The simple as well as the wise shall be th.e children of our Master
Christ. All men will bow the knee to Him when He cometh in His
might and His glory. He careth not for •offerings of silver or of
gold, for offerings of blood. He desiretbt only that those who
believe in Him shall be pure in heart, and shall in all things seek to
do His will."
These men of repute believed not in the g,ods of their fathers, and
they had been led into the slippery, deceitful ways of night because
belief was gone from them.
Now did Christ's words come unto them as the dawn of the first
day of earth. And they delighted in His tl)achings, and those who
had courage were baptised and believed in the Saviour.
Many who were beggars, after the healing of Clement, believed
and were also baptised ; so that there was a, goodly company of the
faith.ful in Philippi. And they were first won by the miracle, and
then did slowly gather within themselves th.e store of Christ's words
as they were spoken by Luke and Timothy.
Howbeit, the power of the Spirit abideth not always with the
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 243
saints of God. And as the wind riseth and falleth, so did tbe
fortunes of the Brethren in Philippi.
It came to pass that Junius was smitten with a grievous fever,
and they sent word unto Luke, saying: "The power of thy God is
with thee ; come and heal, therefore, this sick man."
Much talk and stir was there among the people. And the multi-
tude assembled without the house while Luke, who was within, did
strive with the evil that possessed Junius, causing him to be
shrunken, to wither away as the fading leaf in harvest-time.
Yet, though the saint prayed with all his might for the coming
of the Spirit, there came no stir within his being, no lighting up of
all his soul. For God had willed that Junius should die.
At sunset his body lay still and his spirit passed.
Word was borne unto the multitude who were waiting without
for tidings of a new marvel. And they made a great outcry when
they learned that the physician had failed to heal the rich man.
Anrl those who were within the chamber of death desired to lead
Luke forth by a secret way, so that violent words might not be
fiung at him, so that he should escape the wrath of the people.
Howsoever, Luke appeared unto them. And, such was the
nobility of his mien, those who cried out against him, who called
him a vain dissembler, a foul wizard who preached not truth but
lies, were hushed, and compelled for a space to hearken unto him.
He spoke on this wise: " Junius hath died, and I cannot draw
him back from the dark way into which he entereth. The Holy
Spirit of God might have come unto me and healed him, but it was
not meet in the eyes of the Lord that Junius should live.
" Wherefore He would not bestow on me the power to heal him.
I would have you know that, though my Master would not give
unto me the life of this man, yet shall He again and yet again, if
He willeth, give unto me the lives of others ; and no jot or tittle of
the teachings of Jesus are changed because Junius hath died.
" The words of Christ abide with you always, and, if ye believe
on Him, death shall have no dominion over you. When your
spirits rise out of your bodies, it shall be as if they passed into a new
day. They shall know no sorrow when they thus enter into the
Kingdom of the Blessed.
" Wherefore this death, about which ye make a turmoil, is a
little thing, no more than the casting off by a tree of its coat of
leaves. No more than the sleep of winter is this death.
"Believe, therefore, that Junius is not dead; he sleepeth heavily
and hath no dreams. And he will arise from that slumber, and, as
a new man, he will face into the light of the Kingdom of God."
244 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
When Luke ceased from speaking there arose no sounds from
among the people. They were held as in the net of the thrower by
this vision of a world beyond the tomb. Each man bethought
him of the hour when death would still his limbs, stealing his body's
breath. And they wondered whether they would enter into the
dark ways, or whether it was the folds of a deep sleep that would
gather about them. And the lonely mystery of dying caused them
silently to disperse and to seek their homes.
Though Luke had quelled the people with his words, yet they
did not blot out the harm that came from the slipping away of the
spirit of Junius into the infinite.
Some said one thing and some another ; and a cloud gathered
about the saints once more. Howbeit, though certain drew away
from the Brethren, becoming enemies of the Cross of Jesus, yet
there remained faithful a number of persons of repute, and always
was Lydia steadfast inher belief.
She had given unto those saints who were beggars much of her
store of wealth, and she did send by a sure hand offerings of money
and of apparel unto Paul and Silas.
And while these two abode in Thessalonica they received again
and yet again gifts from the seller of purple, who had added unto
what was hers the offerings of others, so that there was no woman
in Philippi who denied herself more than this good woman, who,
possessing little, possessed all, which was the love of our Saviour
Jesus Christ.
CHAPTER XVIII
THE ENCOUNTER ON THE ROAD TO THESSALONICA
AND Paul and Silas were heavy of heart as they set out again upon
the road to Thessalonica.
It is not easy even for a great master like Paul or a saint like
Silas ever to face forward into new cities and strange ways, to pass
through tempest and darkness, and ever to feel that there is the
white, still day beyond.
They bore letters unto certain Jews of Thessalonica who were of
the kin of Sheva, and they knew that in that city there would be
work for them, and so they might provide themselves with bread.
After much journeying they came nigh to Amphipolis, and they
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 245
set themselves down, seeking rest. And behold, there passed that
way a man who was twisted in his body, and there was weariness
writ upon his face. He walked in an ungainly manner, as if he
were filled with new wine, and he fell at the feet of the saints, lying
there as in a swoon.
They perceived that it was not wine that thus caused him to
stumble and fall ; it was the need for bread that had stricken him.
And, when water and food had caused the wanderer to come
again unto himself, the saints conversed with him.
He hung down his head, saying : " Masters, I have not the price
of the food thou hast given me. And, though I am homeless and
possess naught, yet I have vowed that I shall never beg, and shall
I take no service from any man unless I can requite him. In what
manner, therefore, may I pay thee in hire for this timely succour
of thine? "
And Silas spoke unto him, saying: "We are followers of Jesus,
the Son of the One God, and He hath bidden us share our posses-
sions with others. There should be no pride, brother, in sharing
with us our repast. Our God would call no man a beggar, for all
who live and move are His children ; and, therefore, when we
possess abundance, we give little in thus rendering thee a share of
what we eat.
" We will take but one service of thee-the remembrance of our
offering to thee in thy need. In the coming days thou wilt prosper,
mayhap, and when one who is hungry passeth by thy door, even
though he doth not seek thee out, search thou for him. That is the
price of the bread and wine we have rendered unto thee on this eve.
" Thou art only a beggar if in thy prosperity thou forgettest the
need of others. So be not shamed in this, thine hour of need. In
thine hour of ease, when thou tumest aside from the poor who
hunger, then, indeed, shalt thou be lower than the meanest amongst
those wanderers whom thou deridest mayhap as beggars."
And the stranger was much moved by the words of Silas, and by
the story of jesus as Paul did relate it unto him.
. And, when they
ceased £r01n speaking,hebesought them to go with him into Amphi-
polis. There work for hire awaited him, and he desired that the
two saints should not pass by the city of his birth.
"Behold," he said unto them, "it is a }?rave town, girded with
waters, set in them as a silver ring. Ye will find many who will be
glad to hearken to your tidings of Jesus, the great Lord of the earth.
Pass it not by, therefore, but be of-my company; fo'F I fain would
hearken again to your marvellous words."
And Silas was sorely tempted to enter into this city and abide in
246 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
it. But Paul called to his mind the hour they entreated the Lord
in prayer at Philippi. And there had come to them in the silence
the sure knowledge that they should preach the Word in
Thessalonica.
Wherefore they gave unto the young man the ,greetings of the
road. And he was cast down and weeping as they passed from
his sight.
I would have ye know that when Paul ~d Silas taught any man
who had understanding in the quiet of the fields, they could move
and stir him so that he was exalted as by the melody of harps, and
tears might be drawn from him as from this stranger, who had been
sorely affiicted by misfortune and hardship in past days. So was he
in heart and mind prepared for their words.
Silas had bidden the young man follow him. And he had sorrowed
because, having no more faith in life, he feared to tum from the
work and shelter that was before him and ~;et out once more upon
the hard road.
CHAPTER XIX
PAUL'S FIRST PREACHING IN THE:SSALONICA
WHEN their journey was ended, the saints abode in the dwelling
of a Jew, who was known to his own people as Joseph, and to the
Gentiles as Jason.
He was a man of many parts. And when he learned from the
writing that Paul and Silas bore tidings concerning the promises
of the Prophets in the Scriptures, he was eager in his welcome to
the Brethren, and offered them food and shelter.
Now Jason was poor, and he had many children who must needs
be fed. The saints, therefore, declared that they would work for
hire, and thus would they be a burden to no man.
Paul fell sick, and yet he would not yield to his pain, but laboured
daily, wrestling with the weakness of his jaesh, refusing to yield
unto it.
For he ever declared that, if he failed and faltered because of his
body's need, he would at some time fail and. falter in the things of
the Spirit.
He was wasted, and could scarcely walk, on the first Sabbath,
when the time came for him to lift up his voice in the Synagogue
and bear testimony unto Christ.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 247
Yet, such was the firmness of his purpose to speak in that hour,
he would not permit Silas to preach in his place to the congregation.
And, because of the greatness of his yearning for the souls of those
of his race in that town, the Holy Spirit came unto him and dowered
him with the strength that was needful; so that he spoke with the
firmness and might of a priest in the bloom of his years, in the pride
of his first manhood.
Now many tales had been borne unto the Jews who hearkened
unto Paul concerning Jesus of Nazareth. Some had declared that
He sought to lead the Jews in revolt against the Romans; others
bad borne tidings unto this people that He was a great healer,
wbose enemies He bad caused to be slain ; and yet others said that
He was an impostor who had set Himself up against the High Priest,
wherefore he was punished by the Governor, who bad banged Him
upon a tree.
And there were certain Jews, but lately come from Antioch, who
declared that Christ was a great prophet, whose like had not been
known since Isaiah had declared the Word of the Lord to His chosen
people.
So the Synagogue could scarcely contain the press of the multitude
that thronged within it, and all the doors were OJlened. And,
gazing upon these Jews, Paul was moved to the roots of his being.
For they were dear to him, his own people, yet were they strangers
to the land in which they abode.
And he spoke the words of the Scriptures, showing them that
Moses had been a witness unto Christ, that Elias and the Prophets
had declared His coming.
" ' He shall be called the Prince of Peace, the Everlasting Father,
the Wondrous Counsellor.' Such was the testimony of Isaiah,"
declared Paul. " And from his lips was delivered the promise that
the Messiah would reign over His people, bearing peace unto them
if they would hearken to His words."
And Paul showed how John the Baptist had come as His fore-
runner in the appointed time, and how the Master Jesus had, with
many wonders and miracles and with the wisdom of His teachings,
made plain His Godhead unto the people.
Then Paul spoke of His shameful death, which was needful so
that all men should be redeemed from sin through His blood and
through His torment.
And Paulset thecrown upon this exhortationwhen he spokeof the
rising of the Master from the tomb, and of those days when the
CrucifiedOneoncemoretaughtHisDisciples andwalked amongthem.
So earnest was the Apostle in his speech, so wrought upon was
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
his body by his Spirit, that all who hearkened were amazed. They
sought not to reason concerning his teaching ; they could but exult
in its wonder and in its strangeness. They went forth from the
Synagogue declaring one to another that they had listened to a
mighty man of God, who, of a truth, was possessed of great wisdom
and power.
But in the days of the week, when the Jews had considered the
meaning of his words, they were cast down, and some among them
spoke with bitterness of him, since they held that he had failed to
expound the Scriptures, because he had been deceived in his belief
that Jesus was the Messiah.
And Jason said unto Paul: "The Brethren murmur and peep,
and they utter dark sayings concerning thee. For we have ever
believed that the Messiah would come unto His people as a con-
queror, who would cast off from them the yoke of the oppressor,
who would put the Gentile in Judrea to the edge of the sword, who
would set the nation of the Jews above all the heathen, giving them
dominion over -the whole earth.
"Jesus, your Master, whom ye h~ve called the Messiah, hath been
slain in a shameful manner at Jerusalem, and ~ Gentile hath
sentenced Him. Surely the Messiah, when He cometh, shall assume
Lordsllip over the Gentile? "
And Paul made answer : " Of a truth, brother, thou hast spoken
well. Jesus, my Master, shall be Lord of ali the Gentiles. He shall
rule through the Spirit, and His Kingdom shall be of the Spirit.
" When the Sabbath cometh again, I will show the people that I
have not deceived them, that I have expounded the Scriptures
truly, according to the promise that was given to our fathers in the
ancient days."
CHAPTER XX
PAUL CONTENDS WITH NETHAN
THERE abode in Thessalonica a learned Jew named Nethan, who
was an earnest searcher of the Scriptures, and went much among
the Gentiles, seeking to win them to a belief in the Lord of Hosts.
It was his dream that all men should in time come to believe in
the faith of his fathers. And early and late he laboured among the
Greeks, striving to gather as proselytes those who were of good
repute who would hearken to his words.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 249
Now he was an Elder, and he sent greetings unto the Pharisees
in Jerusalem by the hand of one named Imnah. This friend was
the comrade of his dreams, and shared in all his labours.
Together they designed a mighty change in the hearts of the
Gentiles, who would hold, when they came to believe and were
circumcised, that Jerusalem was the Holy City of the God of all the
earth, His Temple-as Mount Sinai was to Moses-the Holy Place
wherein God communed with the elect.
Now Nethan might not go from Thessalonica, but Imnah went
up to Jerusalem to worship at the Feast of the Passover, and to
speak with certain learned men of the Sanhedrin concerning the
need for the Elders among the Jews in every Roman city to cast
out their nets and to draw within them the people in each town.
Thus would Judrea conquer the Gentile through the words of the
Scriptures, and those who ruled over them would be governed by the
chosen people ; and so would the captivity be changed and pass
away through the winning of, the Roman and the Greek to the
teaching of Moses and the Prophets.
When Imnah returned to Thessalonica, allr the Jews spoke of
Paul, and it was the week that followed the Sabbath when he
preached in the Synagogue.
And many doubts had arisen in the mind of Nethan concerning
this new preacher who had come across the sea. And when he had
hearkened unto the tidings of Imnah concerning Jerusalem, these
doubts turned to fears. He learned that Paul had disputed at
Jerusalem and at Antioch with those Pharisees who claimed that
the Gentiles should be circumcised and practise all the rites and
observances as ordained by Moses.
The Apostle was, therefore, in the eyes of this Elder, one who
might pervert the people, causing the ignorant to stumble and
mayhap to turn from the faith of the Jews.
Now Nethan was slow in the ordering of his deeds. He perceived
that it was needful that he should cause discomfiture to fall upon
the stranger, that he should be dealt with subtly by argument and
reason, so that the people who praised his words should be led to
perceive that he was but as a hollow tree, that there was only
emptiness in his teaching.
Thenwould theybe turnedagainsthisdangerousdoctrines, and they
wouldnot, iftheywere Gentiles, strayawayfrom the fold ofJudrea.
In Thessalonica certain rich proselytes gave moneys to the
Synagogue ; and Nethan, though he was devout and a noble
dreamer for his people, believed that wealth and powerful persons
should be the pillars to uphold the faith that was to be as the sun
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
lighting up all the world, drawing it away from chaos and darkness.
So, on the second Sabbath, Nethan rose up in the Synagogue,
and he sought not to tax Paul with the looseness of his teaching at
Antioch concerning the Gentiles. He sought first to cause him to
fall into disfavour with the people by saying that Jesus, whom he
called the Messiah, was falsely named ; that the Messiah, accord-
ing to the words of the Prophets, would come in might and glory,
and all the nations of the earth would be set under His feet and
under the feet of His chosen people.
This Jesus, Nethan contended, had offended the Sanhedrin,
had been declared an impostor by the High Priest, and, therefore,
He was but an envoy of Satan who had taken upon Himself the
flesh of man so that He might deceive the Lord's people.
And Silas lifted up his voice and spoke, not in his own words,
but in the words of Jesus, showing the people that the teachings of
the Master were pure as a little child, simple as the mind of a
shepherd of the hills, rich with a wisdom that was greater than all
the learning of the Priests, and marvellous with the truth that
could have come but from God alone.
When Silas ceased from speaking, Paul rose up, saying : " The
Prophets have shaped for you the image of Jesus when they declared
unto you that He would suffer for the sins of His people., that He
would bear the burden of all sorrows, that He would know the
anguish that possesseth the hearts of the oppressed.
" The Prophets were persecuted and slain by our own people,
and Jesus also was tormented and caused to be shi.in by the men
of our own race ; and thus were the Scriptures fulfilled.
"Jesus was wounded and bruised for our sins so isheinvery truth
the Messiah. For His pain and woe were thus foretold by thE'
holy men of God. Through the death of Christ shall men be saveu
if they will believe, if they will take into their hearts His teaching,
and live according to the wisdom of His words."
Drops of sweat did stand upon the brow of Paul as he wrestled
for these people with much reasoning and with fervent speech.
And though Nethan contended with him, yet again he could not
match himself against the saint.
And those who watched the countenances of the people read
upon many o{ them their belief in the words of Paul. And, when
all were dispersed, the tidings of the preaching in the Synagogue
spread throughout the city.
Many Gentiles, hearing of the man of learning who had come
to Thessalonica with strange tidings, greatly desired to hearken
unto him.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
And one came unto Jason and asked him whether the teacher
who lodged with him would speak in the market-place, so that the
heathen might hearken unto the truths he taught..
Howbeit, Paul declared that he would not speak unto the Gentile
until the third Sabbath was over-passed. For he reasoned within
himself, and he divined that Nethan, and others who were of his
mind, would strive to turn those Jews who desired to believe ag;Unst
the doctrines he delivered unto them.
And he warned Jason, saying: "Brother, I have preached the
Word of the Lord in many cities, and ever the Evil One riseth up
and seeketh to pervert the hearts of those who would believe in
Jesus, seeketh to ensnare me by stirring up envy and jealousy.
There cometh a time of tribulation for us in the city. We shall,
mayhap, be despised and persecuted for righteousness' sake.
"Wherefore I would desire thee to cast me fortlh from thy house-
hold,if thou art not prepared to face such trial for the sake of Jesus,
tl1e Son of God."
And Jason cast himself at the feet of Paul, saying: "Verily,
master, I have hearkened on this Sabbath unto one who is greater
than any man I have ever known. If thou art, as thou hast declared,
the least among the servants of Jesus, then in truth He is God.
And shall I forsake thee because of the promise of persecution ?
Shall I turn from the messenger of the living Godl ?
" It were better for me that I should be as the dung of the fields
than that I should deal with thee treacherously in thin'e hour of
need, 0 wondrous man of God."
And Paul was much moved by the words of this simple Jew.
And he baptised him and those of his household forthwith, blessing
them, declaring them the first members of the Clnurch of Christ in
Thessalonica.
CHAPTER XXI
EVAGRlUS AND THEONE
IN the days of the week, at the hour when the laLbours of Paul for
his bread were ended, he spoke unto certain devout persons who
came unto the house of Jason and hearkened to his words.
There was among them a young Greek named Evagrius, 1 and he
attended these discourses in dark habits, and his, face was hidden.
For he was sprung from the noblest stock in Th,essa.lonica, and he
1 Evagrius was also known as AristarchtiS.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
desired that these Jews should not know that he was among them.
Only Jason was aware of his name and his station. And Jason had
promised to hold his name as a secret, breathing it to rio man.
Now Evagrius was weary of all things under the sun. He had
studied in the schools of Athens, and had found no ease for his
yearnings in the subtle parables of the wise men of that town ; he
had journeyed in many lands ; he had sought in women and in
feasting for the joys of Heaven ; and still were they denied him.
Neither learning nor riches could give unto him that heart-ease,
that sure peace, that is the heritage of the children of God.
When he returned once more unto Thessalonica, a certain noble
woman of the Greeks named Theone was worshipped by the young
men of his generation. She did ravish the minds of all who beheld
her, and poets shaped their dreams about her.
Her husband was old, and like unto a moth that gnaweth what
is comely, destroying it. Yet he could not destroy the beauty of
Theone, nor in any manner rule her ways.
She sinned much, and was weary because the world, having
given her aJl, had given her naught. Her husband's treasure was
no joy to her. She lay upon beds of ivory, and she was clothed in
rich apparel that was like unto a peacock in its many hues. And
slaves and the merriment of feasting, the wit of the poets and their
worship; might be commanded by her in full measure. And
yet she wearied of them; great was the heaviness of her spirit
because all she could desire was rendered unto her.
She knew not sorrow nor pain at any time, wherefore she knew
not joy. She had hearkened to the wisdom of the philosophers,
but she had no knowledge of the wisdom of the Spirit. She had
plucked all the fruits from the tree of life, and they were, for all
their glory, but vanity in her eyes.
She had never striven or suffered ; she had never known denial.
Wherefore she was sick at heart and miserable in soul.
Howbeit, Evagrius, when he returned unto Thessalonica, was not
like others, but was strange and cold with her. So she, who had
been as the ashes of a fire, did glow with yearning for one like unto
herself-a noble Greek without hope or joy, for whom life was a
poor vanity.
And in time this man was stirred, and became her friend and
lover ; and they did find happiness in their converse with one
another, because each, having borne the burden of too great posses-
sions, could know the need of the other, and comfort might thus be
sought in their heaviness and disenchantment.
Now Evagrius, ever seeking new distractions, went unto the
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 253
Synagogue on the first Sabbath when Paul spoke to• the congregation
of the Jews. And this man of vanity was mightily stirred by the
presence of the saint and by his speech. Neither in Athens, Rome,
Alexandria, nor in the cities of the east bad be met with such
doctrines, nor with such a wondrous zeal as was shown by Paul in
his exhortation.
So, on each evening of the week. one silent and weary spirit did
hearken unto the words of life spoken by Paul ; and the thirst of
this man was quenched by the marvel of the Gospel of peace.
It showed unto the subtle-minded Greek a way by which he
might be redeemed from his own weariness. He determined, there-
fore, that he would change the manner of his whole life. He had
aforetime possessed all, and therefore possessed naught. Now
would he follow in the footsteps of the Apostle, and, possessing
naught, possess all.
And he went unto Theone and declared his mind to her. And
she, who could not be stirred, was moved by the strange words of
the young Greek, who had been like unto Solomon in his discontent
and heaviness, yet now was like unto the pure flame of a candle,
eagerness burning up his being.
She was jealous of the new prophet, as she called Paul. For
Paul had on many eveningsdrawn unto him Evagr:iuswith the power
of his words; and Theone, therefore, was denied Jllis company.
Now she was cunning in her dealings with men.. And she did not
deride the teachings of Paul whenEvagrius declar•ed them unto her.
She hearkened readily, and only after he had spoken for an hour or
more did she take up the word, saying: "Thou hast spoken of the
holiness and purity of this man. Thou hast utte1red strange words
concerning the Kingdom of the Spirit, which Jesus, his God, will
plant upon the earth.
" I learn from thee that only what thou callest: the Spirit ruleth
Paul ; that he is a being from another nobler life ; that he is not
mortal, because he desireth neither beauty nor wine ; because he
desireth neither treasure nor soft living ; because he hath surrendered
all so that he may fulfil the commandments of His Master
Jesus."
And Evagrius cried out eagerly : " Of a truth thi!s man is spotless ;
naught will turn him from his purpose. He is possessed by this
pure Holy Spirit of which I have told thee; and to him temptation
is naught. He worshippeth Christ, and Christ filleth all his life."
"Lead this stranger unto me," said Theone," and I will steal him
from Christ. All men yield to me when I desire to ·win them from
another. This Paul will be turned aside by me,. and he will cast
254 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
from him that great work of which thou has1t given me the measure
in thy words."
And Evagrius obeyed this woman, and went unto Paul, beseeching
him to speak with one who might render senlice unto the Church in
Thessalonica if she were persuaded by his teaching.
Now Theone had perceived that the young Greek was a new man,
that joy was his and heaviness had departed from him. Wherefore
she was envious and wrathful. She had lost thereby a companion,
and one who shared with her that woeful comtempt for all things on
the earth.
She desired to destroy the gladness of Evagrius and to cause him
to turn to her once more.
So she was decked in glorious robes, and bracelets and rings were
hung upon her by her maidens. For she desired to ravish Paul
with her beauty and with the wonder of her riches.
She lay upon her couch when he entered into her chamber, and
• for a short space she would not stir or utter any word, though
Evagrius again and yet again declared the presence of the saint.
It was Paul who at last compelled her, with sudden harsh speech,
to rise up and hearken unto him. He spoke on this wise :
" I have learned from Evagrius that thou. art weary of the vain
show and pomp of thy easeful days. Having lived but for worldly
delights, thou seekest now to learn of what is not of this carnal
world, of what is of the life everlasting."
And Theone gazed upon the saint and showed him the comeliness
of her countenance ; and she did speak sweet words to him, her voice
lovely as the melody of viols. Yet he heeded her not. He spoke
unto her as if she were one of her slaves, a creature of no account.
And he revealed unto her the precious words of Christ, the promise
of salvation which would be the portion of aU who truly believed.
As she hearkened to him, Theone forgot her design, forgot the
loveliness of her own body. And she bowed her head, trembling
before the dread speech of the stranger.
For, as Paul continued his exhortation, he spoke of the end of
the world ; of the new time when Christ, the Son of God, would
descend once more among His people and. would rule over men
and women.
Then would there be anguish and gnashing of teeth for those who
believed not, who lived only to be corrupt and to sin, who gave no
thought to their fellows and decked themselves in costly raiment,
sharing not their treasure with another. And such persons would
be cast into perdition, into the realms of nig'ht and sorrow.
And Paul lifted up his voice, rebuking this woman because of
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 255
the riches about her, because of the graven images in her house,
because of her jewels and the wealth of the golden chamber wherein
she lay.
And, before he ceased from speaking, she rose and, bowing herself
to his feet, entreated him not to curse her, to be merciful, and to
show her the truth and that pure wisdom that would guard her
from the evil day.
"Sir, beseech thy God to pardon me," she cried. "Tell Him
that I will.obey His teachings in all things, that I am in no· way
froward. Ask of Him to give' me of that peace eternal which thou
hast said is for the elect alone."
And Paul laid his hand gently upon her head, saying : " Daughter,
thou hast strayed far from righteousness, and yet, because thou
hast lived in ignorance of the Spirit, thy sin is not grievous, if thou
dost repent, and prepare now in all humility to lead a life pure and
undefiled, preparing for the speedy coming of our Master Jesus
Christ."
And Theone promised that she would change her manner of
living, that she would seek to obey his words.
And, after the saint was gone from her chamber of gold, she lay
there weeping and mourning for the young life of darkness and sin
that was over, that could no more be summoned back than the seed
that joumeyeth upon the wind.
It was the presence of Paul and the light that did shine forth
from his eyes that quelled this woman of folly and weariness. It
was the strong joy of one whose whole being was possessed with zeal
for Christ that caused the creature of vanity to mourn her vileness,
to cast her jewels from her, to tear down the golden hangings of
her chamber.
But it was also the fear of that hour when the Son of Man would
come in His glory to judge the earth that did work upon Theone,
so that she, who had made a mock of life and death, now bowed
before that mystery ; and her soul melted away with fear lest
Christ should come swiftly in the night-time and she should not be
prepared. Thus would she be cast into the strange evil that is the
portion of the wicked and those who have walked in foul ways.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
CHAPTER XXII ·
THE FURY OF NETHAN
THE talk concerning Paul in Thessalonica was like unto a rising
flood. Naught could stem its course. And Imnah and Nethan
were greatly troubled in mind because of it. Jews of power and
wealth such as Shamman and Azel openly declared their belief in
Christ and desired to follow the Master.
After the Feast of the Passover, Imnah had dwelt for a season
in Jerusalem and for a season in Antioch. He had learnt of the
dispute among the saints, when certain of them had risen up against
Paul because he desired that the Gentiles should not have the
bonds of the law of Moses laid upon them if they became believers
in Jesus Christ.
And so it came to pass that, when Nethan and Imnah had taken
counsel with one another, ·Nethan sought out Paul and declared
his mind to him.
" Thou art a man with a golden store of words ; but they do
serve thee falsely, because thou hast in thine ignorance been led
to believe in this Jesus. Turn thee again from such beliefs ; go
forth as a teacher of the law of Moses among the Gentiles and I will
give thee letters to the Jews in all the cities. I will give thee moneys,
and thou shalt cause both Romans and Greeks to worship before
the ever-burning lamp. For it is my design, and the design of many
of the Pharisees, that we shall, as fishermerl, cast out our nets and
draw within them our Governors.
"These Romans have no faith. They have turned from their
false gods, and wander blindly in dark ways, seeking the truth.
Cast thy belief in Christ from thee, and verily I will make of thee
a great teacher, who shall be a power among the heathens.
" I know many of the men in authority at Rome. Thou wilt
surelypersuade them if thou bearest letters from me untothem. But
first shalt thou tear the folly of Jesus the Nazarene from thy heart."
And Paul was greatly angered, and rose up, calling Nethan a
tempter, bidding him begone from the house; bidding him, when
his heat was overpast, to search the Scriptures, so that he might
learn that Jesus was the Messiah, as had been foretold.
And Nethan went unto his own place, and his soul was as the
furnace of a smith. There did glow within it a hatred that naught
could quench, that so possessed him the desire to be avenged
upon Paul became the one purpose of his being.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 257
He perceived that his dream that all should coJDe to believe in
the law of Moses, and sl_
10uld look upon the Temple at Jerusalem
as the home of their God, might be harmed or come to naught if
such teachers as Paul preached Christ unto the Gentiles.
And the fears of Nethan were fulfilled in this matter when he
hearkened unto the words of Paul on the third Sabbath at the
Synagogue. 1
For the Apostle lifted up his voice, saying: "Many Gentiles
have come unto me and have desired to know whether they too
might not share with you the faith in Christ my Master. And I
have welcomed them, telling them that there is no difference
between Jew or Greek, between Jew or Roman. If the Gentiles
believe, and will walk in the light according to the teaching of
Jesus, they shall, through their faith, be saved The yoke of
the law shall not be set upon them if they are not prepared to
bear it."
Then did some of the Pharisees cry out against Paul, but he
silenced them with the eloquence of his pleading for all those souls
who were in darkness, who must be easily led, tended with gentleness.
If they believed in the one God and in His Son, then would they
so order their ways the observances of the law ~ould not be required
of them.
And Paul, with glorious words, did vision for those who hearkened
the wonders that awaited the children of Gad. And he showed
them how the Romans might all believe if they were won through
faith ; but they could no more be won through the works of the
law than the 1Egean Sea could be raised up from its bed and set in
the midst of Egypt. ·.
"Our fathers," declared Paul, "were not able to fulfil all the
works of the law. How, then, can men, whose fathers have not
for generations studied these practices and observed them, be able
to bear this burden ? If they believe in the Messiah, it is not needful
that it should be borne by them."
Now Paul had been overbold in his speech, and he caused certain
of the Jews to waver and fall away. And these did gather about
Nethan, and consulted with him concerning what they deemed
was a heresy in the doctrine of this preacher.
And Nethan worked upon their minds as the potter upon soft
clay, so shaping them that their respect for Paul turned to hatred ;
1
" Paul and Silas spoke in the Synagogue on three Sabbaths only, but they abode
for a full season of the year in Thessalonica, preaching unto the Hellenes and unto
the Jews in the market-place. They were but for a short space in .Philippi, whereas
in Tbessalonica the moon travelled many times across the sky, many times through
its quarters, before they tied from the town."
Rc
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
and soon were they prepared to aid Nethan in his designs against
the strangers.
They went unto the Rulers of the Synagogue and persuaded
them to forbid Paul the right of entry therein. And he was told
that the doctrine he taught was false, and that never again would
he be permitted to lift up his voice in the assembly of the Jews at
Thessalonica.
Tidings ot' the exhortation delivered by the saint on the third
Sabbath were spread abroad among the Gentiles. And when Paul
spoke in the market-place he was acclaimed by the people of repute.
These rejoiced because they need not, through rites and observances,
win favour with the Lord. In truth the yoke of Christ is easy for
those who desire to be freed from the beast and to live according to
the Spirit.
Azel and Shamman, who were rich merchants, asked that Paul
and Silas should abide in their house and work no more at their
trade, devoting their lives to teaching and preaching.
But neither Paul nor Silas would dwell therein or be a burden
to these men. For they knew that only from certain of the elect
could they thus receive care and lodgment.
Azel and Shamman were as the plants that spring up in a night.
They had not been tested and tried. And so Paul and Silas laboured
all the day and in the hours of darkness, taking little rest. For
when they worked not for bread they worked for the souls of the
people. And daily the congregation of the Brethren increased,
and there were many more Greeks than Jews who came to believe
and were baptised.
And those God-fearing Gentiles who attended the Synagogue
went no more to it, and would not give offerings to the Priest, inas-
much as they departed from the fold of ]udrea and were lost to the
Synagogue.
Then were the Rulers and Nethan and Imnahmightilyprovoked.
They were proud of the proselytes won by them in past times, and
they were consumed with a jealous wrath, so that they imagined
wicked devices whereby they might cause hurt to come to Paul,
Silas, and Timothy. .
For now Timothy was of their company, the bearer of gifts from
Lydia and the Brethren in Philippi. These Paul received gladly,
for they were a testimony of the deep love and charity of these
faithful brothers and sisters in Christ.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 259
CHAPTER XXIII
THE HEALING OF DAVID: REACTIO'N AGAINST PAUL
Now I would write of the shameful change in the hearts of the rich
Jews of Thessalonica.
Many of the Greeks of that town came to believe in Christ because
of the words of promise concerning the Kingdom of our Father in
the world to come.
And among those who were baptised were some who went hungry
and suffered from the need of those days. So, when the Church was
shaped and the Elders were chosen, Paul spoke unto them, declaring
the Master's will.
" Men and Brethren, it was the rule, as given unto us by the
Twelve Apostles, that we should all be counted as members of one
body. And though we may not share all things in common, as
was Christ's will, yet may those who have treasure give such share
of their possessions to the congregation no member of it shall hunger
or fail through hardship.
"Thou dost not wound thy hand or smitethy feet; thoucherishest
all thy members. Wherefore we should cherish all the children of
our God."
Now Nethan and Imnah rejoiced when this teaching of Paul's
was borne unto them. For in their tribe there was much money
greed ; and they sought out Shamman and Azel and recited unto
them a tale concerning the saints.
"These men seek your gold, not for the people, but for themselves;
they are beggars, who through false teaching and with many
promises seek to muffiethe understanding, to castabout youryearn-
ings the garment of a false dream. Then, when they have gathered
y0ur treasure, they will depart in the night-time and see yolir faces
no more."
Now Shamman and Azel had bidden Paul and Silas to their
dwelling, and had desired to do them honour, not because of the
truths they taught, but because they desired to make a show of them
to the people, and because certain noble Greeks held their teaching
in high esteem.
On learning of their.doctrine concerning the sharing of possessions,
thes~ rich Jews had been saddened. and they were now greatly
distressed in inind when they learned from the lips of the enemies
of the saints that a snare had been set for them, and these men
were but seekers after their gold. So they withdrew from the
z6o THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
congregation and they hearkened no more to the words of
life.
Howbeit, Paul continued to win the favour of the Greeks. And
be could not walk abroad in peace, so many would follow him and
entreat him to speak of Christ and the coming of His Kingdom,
when all evil and sorrow would pass away.
At Thessalonica, in the first season of the year, there were many
more Greeks than Jews who were baptised and who came together
to worship. Now among them was a woman named Amena, a
widow who had one young son, the light of her age and a joy to
all who beheld him.
This youth, David, fell from the tower of his master's dwelling
and lay as one dead upon the stones. Then did the mother make
great crying, and she sought in her sorrow to slay herself when the
boy was borne to her own place upon a bier, and he was set out for
his home in the earth.
And it came to pass that Paul, returning from his labours at
sunset, walked hard by the dwelling of the widow. And he asked
of one who watched by the door why this lamentation came forth
from it.
The one who watched was a believer, and he said unto Paul,
"Master, thou hast told us that Jesus is the Lord of time and sleep
and death. There lieth within this dwelling a youth who fell from
a high place, and he is dead, and behold, his mother is crazed with
the grief that possesseth her. Let ye come into this house of
mourning and let this woman find favour in your sight. Mayhap
ye will entreat the Lord of death that he yield up to the stricken
mother the spirit of this youth."
And Paul made no answer, but he entered the chamber of the
dead, and he and Silas set themselves about the bier, praying softly
to the Saviour for the soul of this child.
And behold, the mother ceased from her long crying. And,
though the people pressed within, they uttered no sound, watching
the two saints who knelt beside the bier in the gathering night.
Strangely sudden was the labour of Paul for this boy. He did
rise up and pass his hands across his brow, whispering certain
strange w0.r::!s in his ear and breathing in his nostrils.
Then did the body stir, and there came from the lips of the dead
the sigh of a sleeping soul. And again Paul passed his hands above
the boy and called him by his name.
It roused him, so that he rose up ; and, gazing upon his mother,
he asked her wherefore she wept and·why these strangers were
all about him.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
Then the people cried out : " The Lord of death hath given thee
back thy son through this holy man, and he is himself mayhap
a god."
The woman cast herself at the feet of the saint and strove to
worship him. But he admonished her, raising her up and telling
her that her son was whole through the mercy of Jesus Christ, and
Him only should she wor-Ship and serve.
Now the tale of this marvel spread abroad among the people.
Through it many more were added unto the Church. And Paul
was glad at heart ; his sickness went from him. For a space he was
neither tormented in the flesh nor in the spirit.
And the people of Thessalonica were his joy- the crown to all
his labours, as he declared.
But evil worked in the darkness. And, now that Shamman and
Azel were turned against Paul, Nethan and Imnah were strengthened
in their purpose, which was to cause the death of the Apostle and
those Brethren who were with them.
And these crafty ones took counsel with one another concerning
the snare they would set for the strangers. They fear~d to have
them slain by any of the hired men who at times will work such
deeds of darkness.
They perceived, also, that now that there were many Greeks who
believed in Christ, it would not serve them to slay their leaders.
Wherefore they imagined an evil device. They summoned to their
presence certain of the youths of the town, and declared unto these
that Paul and Silas desired to overthrow the rule of the Emperor,
and to set up in his place one named Jesus, and that this Jesus,
whom they would crown King of Thessalonica, of Philippi, and of all
Macedonia, was hidden in the house of Jason, the merchant.
At the appointed hour he would be led forth, and the Christians
would hail him as Lord and Master and overthrow authority in the
town, seizing the reins of government.
And these cunning J ews declared that they dared not speak of
this conspiracy to 'the politarchs; for they were inclined to favour
the :stranger and to be deceived by his words.
So Nethan offered the youthsgold if they would go forth and make
an outcry and an assault upon the dwellings of those who believed
in Christ. Thus would the commonweal be preserved ; and, because
of the treason that would be revealed, the Rulers would not dare to
punish those who had done violence so that they might save the
city from the rule of this man Jesus.
And the youths believed the words of the Jews. And it was
determined, when they had partaken of a feast of food and wine
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
that would stir them up towrath, that they would go forth stealthily.
and first seek out the house of Jason, so that they might seize upon
Paul and Silas and their king Jesus, who, Nethan declared, was
hidden in his house.
David, the boy who had been healed by Paul, served these young
men with food and wine. And, when he learned from their talk
of their design, he hastened from the table. And, passing from
the house of his master, he sought out Jason and warned him of
the evil that would shortly come upon him.
Then were Paul and Silas led secretly t•
o the house of another
saint, and they were prisoned in a chamber 'neath the earth. And
lo I as the door did close upon them,there came the sound of turmoil
from the street without.
Many voices cried. And they did utter together words concern-
ing the treason that was plotted against the Emperor, which had
been set in their mouths'b;y Imnah and Nethan.
" Where are these traitors ? " they cried!. " Let us find them,
seize them, and cast them to the moles and bats ; let us slay them
and give their bodies to the dogs. They seek to overthrow the
rule of the Emperor ; they seek to bring rui.Jn and hunger and hard-
ship upon our town."
The young men entered the dwelling of Jason and seized upon
him and upon his children. And these the:y buffeted and bruised,
dragging them through the streets, spitting upon them, causing
them to be a derision in the eyes of the peop:le.
And they entered into the houses of certain of the Greeks and
Jews who had declared their belief in Jesus. These they haled
forth, calling them traitors and casting them upon the ground, so
that certain among them perished in the prem> on that woeful eve.
These young men, being crazed with wine and wrath, seized the
moneys and goods and other possessions of the saints. And some
of them they burned, and others, such as the moneys, they pre-
served as the wage for their evil work.
Then they hastened to the market-place, where they were
challenged by the captain of the guard. And when be learned from
their leader that they had seized the King of the Christians, one
Jesus, he believed them, and bade them lead this man before the
politarchs so that he might be judged for his !treason to the Emperor.
The press of the people was great. And in that hour of stir
it was bard to read the faces of the prisoners, so that the guard
could not perceive the stranger who was called Jesus, but they
believed that be was being led captive by th.e young men.
And behold, when the Rulers came forth and desired to know the
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
cause of the tumult, the press of the people fell away ; many among
them scattered. Then their leaders perceived that their prisoners
were all men of the town, that there was no stranger among them,
and so they remained silent when the chief among the politarchs
said unto them ;
" Ye speak of one Jesus, who maketh a conspiracy against the
Emperor, and of Paul and Silas, his followers? Where are these
men, so that I may question them and learn of the tumult which
.ye declare hath been roused by them ? "
And for a short space no man could make any answer. But
Nethan, who had not been at first among them, now came forward,
declaring his accusation with great boldness.
"This Jesus," he said unto the Ruler, "hath been declared King
of the whole earth by His servants, Paul and Silas. And they led
Him stealthily to the house of Jason by night. It was their purpose
that they should suddenly declare Him Ruler oJ Thessalonica."
CHAPTER XXIV
DAVID SLAIN IN RESCUING PAUL FRQA.f THE JEWS AT THESSALONICA
Now, when Nethan spoke of Jesus on this wise, one of the politarchs
held up his hand, demanding silence.
He had hearkened unto the teaching of Paul, and he had believed
that Paul spoke of a God who might govern what was known as
the sect of the Stoics. And, as he was well inclined to their doctrine,
he was ill pleased when this man spoke of Jesus as a conspirator
who was in their midst, and might cause the people to rise up in
revolt against the Emperox:.
And he said unto Nethan: "Paul has assured us that Jesus was
the Son of God and that He was slain by the people of your race."
Now Nethan denied this, boldly saying that it was a false tale.
"'Forasmuch as Jesus,' Paul hath declared, 1
rose from the dead
on the third day and walked amongst men once more.' And now,
if ye will send the guard to search the town, ye will come upon Paul
and this Jesus who hath been designed by the stranger as the Ruler
of Thessalonica.
" From city to city have these men gone, seeking ever to win
followers for their King Jesus; and alwa}'S do the people turn
against them and cast them forth from their towns. Tumult
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
ariseth because·they question the rule of the Emperor and because
they declare that Jesus will come amongst us and rule over all
the earth."
And, when Nethan had ceased from speaking, the Jews made
a great clamour, demanding that the strangers, who were traitors,
should be seized and cast into prison because they sought to over-
turn the rule of the Emperor.
And, though Evagrius rose up among them, and contended that
Paul and Silas were but teachers who sought to lay upon the people
a new rule of life, and newer and nobler ordinances, they would not
hearken unto him or disperse quietly.
And with each moment, ac; the tumult increased, the politarchs
became the more afraid, so that at the last, to silence the people
and to save their own name from the breath of treason, they gave
orders that search should be made by the guard throughout the
town for the strangers.
And it was decreed that the people should go in due order and
peaceably to their homes.
But they were like unto men filled with the burning fever of the
marshes. Naught would gainsay them or hinder them in their
purpose. They set upon those who were held to be believers in
Christ, and some of them were cast forth from their dwellings and
scourged. Others they threatened with death if they would not
declare that Paul and Silas and their Master Jesus were traitors
who conspired against the commonweal.
Now I have told ye that the two saints were hidden in a chamber
beneath the earth, and the sound of the turmoil came unto them
but as the sound of the distant tide upon the shore.
And they knelt together, keeping the Hour of the Watch, praying
for the souls of all the faithful in Thessalonica.
Paul was in great anguish of spirit, because he feared that his
children, as he called them, would suffer much tribulation at the
hands of the ungodly. But as he prayed a stillness fell upon him,
and, casting forth his Body of Light, he lay as one in a traveller's
sleep, while Silas watched beside him.
And Silas, who was awake, saw naught, yet knew he that great
presences were in that chamber, and it was holy in that hour.
Paul, as he lay between the visible and the Invisible, perceived
white, shadowy hands and pale robes and the faces of certain of the
saints who had fallen asleep in Christ Jesus. And they said no
word to him, yet they smiled and passed away from his vision with
such untroubled mien, the everlasting peace fell upon the soul of
the watcher.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
And, even as he was loosed from his swoon, he heard the words :
" I will shelter thee in the covert of My wings."
There came a knocking at the door. And David, the youth
who had preserved their lives, entered from without. He declared
unto them that there was a great outcry, that bands of evil men
went to and fro seeking the saints so that they might slay them.
The Rulers were afraid to hinder these unruly youths, for they
declared that they sought Paul in the name of ~sar and for the
good of the whole people.
Now the chamber in which the Brethren were hidden was known
to certain among the Elders of the Jews. And so it was held by
the faithful that it would assuredly be searched when the tumult
had abated and when the Jews considered in all calmness of mind
how they might lay hands upon Paul.
Wherefore David led them forth from this secret place, and three
of the Brethren watched in the street without. These did cast about
Paul and Silas the dark cloaks of merchants, and they led them by
narrow paths from out the midst of the town towards the sea.
Howbeit, Nethan and lmnah were crafty in all their devices, and
they had set in certain places watchers, who did cause to halt those
who passed that way.
And three or four of these servants of the Jews compelled the
saints to halt, and demanded of them their business, commanding
them to show their faces in the light of the torches. For a coverlet
of mist had dimmed the stars, and darkness hung thickly about
them.
Then Paul spoke out boldly, saying that they were Roman citizens
and had journeyed iJ?. haste to Philippi, and he bade these men fall
back before him.
Now, when Paul chose to command the common people theywere
ever quelled by his manner, and would, if they were not stirred up
against him, perceive in him one who was noble and had the right
to order their ways.
So, like foolish, noisy dogs, these servants of the Elders fell back
before the saints. And Paul and the Brethren mounted the steps
that were before them, and they did reach the open land above
before a cry sounded up to them warning them of their peril.
For one of the J ews had said unto a comrade: "There goeth
Paul the preacher, and another who followeth aft~ Jesus is of his
company."
And, when the servants of Nethan learned that they had let Paul
pass, they hastened after the saints. And lo I they were met in the
narrow way where the steps did climb the hillside by the youth
266 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
David, who had feared these men and had therefore tarried behind
the saints.
He perceived that they had drawn their knives, and he knew that
they had divined that Paul had passed them by.
So he cried out the words of warning, and he drew his weapon
from beneath his cloak, challenging these men. And they bade
him begone, else they would slay him. But, though he had not yet
reached manhood, he faced them, bravely joining battle with them,
making a great outcry.
And for a short space he held them with his clamour and fierce
looks. Then, perceiving that he was but a boy, they fell upon him
and slew him.
Thus David, whose life had been saved by Paul, yielded up his
life joyfully for the saint, and was it of great worth. For the saints,
hearing his cry, hastened forward, gaining the road that had been
builded by the Romans. And there they came upon horses, which
had been led to this place, so that they might hasten away towards
Berea once they were without the town.
And through the darkness of that night they travelled swiftly.
Soon were they far from their pursuers, and once more seeking a
strange city where they might spread the tidings of our Master
Christ.
Now, I would have ye know that it was ordained that Paul
should be cast out of many cities, that he should be like unto a
spear that would prick the hearts of all the people ; so that some
would be stirred up and exalted by the stroke of this weapon; so
that others-the unworthy Jews-should be so pricked by his
teaching, and by the sharpness of his preaching, that they would
turn against him and cast him forth from their town.
Thus the tidings of the Gospel would spread throughout many
lands ; and always would it come through persecution. In Thessa-
lonica it was Paul the Jews hated, for he sought not, as Silas, to
win them with soft speech. At times his words were hard and
bitter, and he would spare no man.
So that many would be angered, and would hold that he was too
arrogant of speech and of mien, setting himself above the most
learned in the town. ,Yet Paul spoke at times as if he were the
humblest among the Brethren. And many believed that truly he
was an evil and secret sinner because he did oft declare unto them
that he was the lowest among men, and not worthy to bear the
Word of Christ unto the heathen.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
CHAPTER XXV
EVAGRIUS, JASON, AND AZIZA BEFORE THE POLITARCHAI
I WOULD give unto ye the tale of theBrethren's affliction at Thessa-
lonica. On that night of violence many were ill-treated and many
were scourged, the goods in their dwellings seizeq by the youths
who served Imnah and Nethan. And Evagrius, who was rich and
had power among the people, soon divined the cause of this assault
upon the saints.
So he summoned his own slaves, the slaves of Theone, and certain
other Greeks who had hearkened to the teaching of Paul and were
well inclined.towards the saints.
He told these men of the snare that had been set for all who
believed in Christ, and he bade them follow him and aid him to
defend the Brethren.
Jason, who had fled from his tormentors, gathered the faithful
among the Jews about him. And they did arm themselves with
stones and clubs, meeting the bands of youths with these rude
weapons. And they were of service, a flight of stones casting many
of these robbers to the ground.
Howbeit, the guard, who came upon the fighters, could not divide
the sheep from the goats, the evil from the good. They seized
Jason and Aziza, who defended their dwellings, and they even laid
hands upon Evagrius because he contiriued to pursue the .workers
of evil, smiting them when the others had drawn away before
the guards.
Now Nethan was cunning in all his contrivances, and he had
sought out the guard, leading them to the place where the faithful
strove but to hold their families and their homes in security from
the invader.
And he gave gold unto the guard, and did set words of wickedness
into their mouths, so that they accused Evagrius, Jason, and Aziza
when they were led before the politarchai.
Speaking according to the bidding of the Jew, the Captain
declared that Jesus had fied in the darkness from the city. And iri
His company was His servant Paul, who was to command the
army of the Christians who would rise up and overthrow authority,
causing Jesus to be their Ruler and Governor.
The first among the politarchai was hooped in his back and nigh
in age to the eagle. And he had gathered much wisdom through
the long years of his life. So he perceived that no true tale was
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
uttered ; and he knew-not through knowledge, but through under-
standing--that lies were being told him ; yet it was hard for him to
overcome the lie.
And he said unto the Captain, " Thou bearest unto me false
measure. I am assured that Jesus was no living man. He was the
god of these strangers as Zeus is your god. It is not contrary to
the law that the people should worship gods. Let them but render
due homage to the Emperor and they may seek to shape their
manner of life and belief according to their understanding."
Then Imnah came forward and declared his accusation : " These
people have not rendered homage to the Emperor. For they have
uttered words of treason concerning him. They speak of the
Kingdom of Jesus, which, they declare, will engirdle the whole
earth ; they go among the people, promising them ease and joy if
they will serve Jesus, who is to reign over this kingdom, who will
fling the Emperor from his throne, casting him into darkness.
" Much harm has been caused by this Paul, who has poisoned the
minds of many with his evil words. He is fled from Thessalonica.
Is there not in his flight sure proof of his guilt ? Is t!here not in this
night of blood and tumult a further showing of his design to capture
the city for his Lord ? "
The Magistrate contended vainly with Imnah. And he was,
despite his wisdom and his years, overcome by the subtle-tongued
Jew.
The politarchai became fearful. They held counsel with one
another. They declared that if they pardoned th.e stranger the
tidings of it would be borne to other towns, mayhap to Rome. And
they would be accused of treason.
So they determined that they would send the guard after Paul
and his Brethren, and that when they came upon them they should
bear them for trial to Thessalonica. Thus would no stain rest upon
the names of the Rulers of the town.
When the old man perceived that he could not prevail with those
Rulers, when he perceived also that he could not escape from the
snare set by the Jew if he defended Paul, he bade the politarchai
consider the tumult that might arise if these strangers were led
captive to the city.
" Let them be sentenced to banishment. Let them not be
permitted to enter our town again."
And, when this edict was given forth, there arose a great clamour,
and the Jews demanded that E~agrius, Aziza, and Jason should be
punished for·treason, which had assuredly been committed by them.
Now Evagrius was not one who sought to speak in discourses.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
He scorned the common people in the days of his youth, and he
held that those who contended with them in long speeches did soil
their whole being and became unclean of soul.
Howbeit, since he had hearkened unto Paul, there had arisen
within him strange yearnings which his mind could not rule over ;
and these now caused him to demand that all men should be silent
and should give ear unto him.
In the days when he was a heathen, so possessed with pride was
he, he would have remained silent before those who were to him no
better than the mire of the streets. And, because he was honoured
in Thessalonica, the multitude held their peace when he spoke unto
them.
"I can show you, fools and babblers, that ye are but seekers after
folly and after lies. What is truth ? It is what the common
people of this earth deny. What is goodness? It is what the
rabble will not practise. What is virtue, and what is understand-
ing ? They are the rare adornments of the elect alone. For behold,
the common people of this land are no more than the plants that
grow. They have no knowledge; they seek the light but for their
own ease and betterment.
" Wherefore. ye men of Thessalonica, or those of you who are as
the roots of the field, ye cannot discern what is false or true. Ye
cannot measure in any manner the weight of the words that are
uttered in your presence. Paul and Silas are wise men, gifted with
the treasures of discernment. They have gathered the fruits of
knowledge and havespread themout beforeyou. They havedeclared
unto you the words of Jesus their Master, who was the source of
knowledge.
" They have said His Kingdom is not of Macedonia, neither
is it of Rome or Judrea or Egypt. His Kingdom is of a nobler
earth than ours ; His empire is beyond the sun, beyond the stars.
And there doth He reign, and there will He receive those who can
apprehend His sayings, those who are not as the roots of the field,
without minds, utterers of empty words, no better than the dust
from which they came.
"Jesus, the Lord of life beyond the tomb, seeketh not to rule
over this land nor any kingdom of the earth. He yielded up His
body to the scoffer and the fool, permitting them to torment it
because they were as ye are : so without understanding He would
not humiliate Himself by contending with them. And, that He
might show that they could not overcome Him, he caused His
body, pitted with the holes made by nails and turned into the
semblance of c:kath, to rise up and walk among them once more.
270 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
"Jesus, as Paul hath declared, will in His own time come once
more among you, not to conquer the earth, but to gather unto
Himself the elect-those who have understanding and are found
worthy to live in His Kingdom, which is beyond the sun, beyond
the sta.FS.
'' So now I ask of those who deny my words to lift up their voice
and accuse me of treason, and thus shall they show themselv~ to
be witless as the roots that live in the darkness of the ground."
And no man dur~t speak when Evagrius made an end with these
words of scorn. For they would not be counted among the fools
and babblers. And this noble Greek, having been ever a man of
silence, was respected now as Solomon for his judgment.
The Jews would have disputedwith him if they had notperceived
the change in the countenanre of the people; so they held their
peace.
And the politarchai, having whispered together, declared their
will.
"Jason, Evagrius, and Aziza shall be seized and their possessions
taken from them if Paul cometh again to Thessalonica. We cannot
read aright the parable of Jesus. But Paul has mightily provoked
the people with his sayings. And so he shall not cause disorder
with his presence in this city of ours.
"And we do hold that, though treason hath not been committed
by Jason, Evagrius, and Aziza, yet they have been led, through
ignorance, into foolish ways by these strangers, and so shall they
give security that the cause of tumult shall not rise up amongst
us again."
Then the people gave a great shout of joy, and both.Jews and
Hellenes returned peacefully to their homes.
Now the politarchai had, according to their vision, been wise and
circumspect. They had rebuked Evagrius for the pride of his
speech, and they had bound him in such a manner that he would,
because of his wealth, seek to hinder Paul from r~tum~g once more
to Thessalonica.
And, when he had considered the matter, Evagnus was put out
of heart. And Jason, who had hearkened diligently to the words
of the saints, caused him to be the more cast down ; for he rebuked
him for declaring that Jesus was one who turned from the common
people, who 5comed all but the elect. And high words passed
between these two, who might have together gathered the faithful
within the fold.
Let ye read from this that in times of temptation, when Satan
walketh abroad, ye shall in no way permit him to cause those who
THE THIRD PARCHMENT
are upright to contend with one another and thus to become a
derision in the sight of evil men.
In his weariness of spirit Evagrius sought out Theone and declared
his bitter thoughts to her. But she, too, had been galled by the
sharp devices of Nethan and lmnah. For they had spoken evil
concerning her to her husband ; and he had admonished her, say-
ing that she had given his gold unto men who plotted against the
Emperor, who sought to overturn his rule, who desired to overthrow
those in authority, the governors of the people.
And he declared that he would expel her from his house and
accuse her of treason, causing her to be a shame among her kin,
if she sought out these followers of Jesus and made known to all
that she was one of them.
Now this old man had permitted Theone to live evilly, to commit
all manner of sin, and, only when she turned to Christ and sought
to live virtuously, did he thus wrathfully condemn her and give
commandment to his slaves to watch her in her goings out and
comings in. And so Nethan and lmnah prevailed, as evil will
prevail for a time.
The noble Greeks in Thessalonica had been well inclined towards
the teaching of Paul and Silas, not only because of the wonder of
their words, but also because Theone, who had ruled them through
her loveliness and her pride, was an eager pleader for the strangers
and their Gospel of truth.
Now that Theone's ~ps were closed, and now that. the common
people, through the cunning of the Jews, had caused scandal to
gather about Paul, so. that his name became a thing of disrepute,
they turned their faces against the new doctrine, and many among
them fell away from the Church.
And thus were the faithful winnowed for the Lord, thus were
the tares cast out from among the wheat. But, as is the way of
life, blades of wheat that might have grown and ripened were
plucked up also and cast away.
Howbeit, Jason and Aziza gathered about them privily many
who were in doubt. And they spoke with such earnestness, some
of these Greeks and Jews declared they would not fall away, but
would secretly meet and worship together Jesus, the Son of God,
who had given His life for them.
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
CHAPTER XXVI
TIMOTHY DISSUADES PAUL FROM TURNING BACK TO THESSALONICA
PAUL, Silas, and Timothy hastened through the night towards
Berea. And, when the darkness was thinning, Paul groaned and
cried out, " I can go no farther. My children, who look to me in
all things, are behind me in Thessalonica, and there is no one among
them to guide them and aid them in this hard time.
"I am failing them, yea, I am treacherous, betraying my Master
in thus fleeing from His people, who will need me sorely in the
coming days."
And, so powerful was the word of Paul, the Brethren turned back
upon the road with him, though they had learned from the Thessa-
lonians who were with them that a sure death awaited them if they
entered the town while the people were wrathful and while tumult
prevailed.
Howbeit, Timothy was one who had a great understanding of his
master Paul, and it was his custom in no manner to hinder the saint
when first he planned .some act that was perilous or fooliSh.
Timothy would let him go a little way with it, and then would he
in all quietness show the dark side of the undertaking to the Apostle.
So, as they journeyed, he spoke of the harm that Paul would
bring upon the faithful in Thessalonica. He declared that many
more might be slain, and that then belief would perish from the
hearts of those who remained.
"The bloom of faith in Thessalonica is tenper and fine," were his
words, " thou wilt cause it to wither away if thou art taken in this
town by our enemies, who are many and powerful."
And Paul groaned in the spirit, for he knew that Timothy was
wise in his reasoning,and that he must needs turn his back upon the
unfinished work.
" I may plough up the ground in each city, yet I am never
permitted to watch the seed in its growth and in the beauty of its
ripeness," he cried out bitterly. And then he turned him about
once more, away from the sea and from those strangers whom he
had come to love.
Paul shed tears in the dimness of the night as they travelled
onwards. Howbeit, man changeth as the days change. And when
the:saints perceived Berea, peaceful and untroubled in the virgin
air :of dawn, sorrow fled away from them and they were glad once
more.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 273
Meliah, a kinsman of Jason, welcomed them joyfully, offering
unto them the shelter of his dwelling and all that was therein. For
he was a follower of Christ, a zealous and faithful believer.
So it came to pass that, when Paul had prayed for an hour alone,
he rose up, declaring that all was well; and that he rejoiced in the
will of the Lord, who had permitted the Jews to cast him out from
one town so that he might preach the word of truth in yet another.
CHAPTER XXVII
EVAGRlUS MOCKS DEMAS' IDEA OF HOW TO SERVE CHRIST; PAUL
SOJOURNS IN BEREA.
THEONE bade Evagrius to her dwelling. And she spoke with him
earnestly concerning Paul and Silas. She desired that he should
follow after them, bearing letters to certairi nobk women in Berea,
telling them of the Seerof Tarsus, and of certainwondrous knowledge
that was his concerning a revelation of God, the Unknowable, who
now was to be known through His servant Paul.
Even as Theone spoke of these letters, and of the need for secrecy
because of her husband's wrath, a youth named Demas entered the
chamber; he was wild in his looks, his raiment all in disorder.
And he cried out eagerly : " I have learned, Theone, that thou
believest also in Jesus, thatthou art one of thosewhohave hearkened
unto Paul. NowI would have yourcounselconcerninghim. Thisday
my father was told by a Jew that I was a .follower of the stranger,
and my father rebuked me. And he declared that he would not
give unto me my rightful heritage if I continued to believe in Jesus.
" And I made answer that I could no! obey him, that naught
would turn me from my faith in Christ. So my father hath driven
me forth from his house and hath bidden me return only when this
madness, as he called it, was gone from me."
Then Theone declared her envy of Evagrius and Demlj.s, because
they were men and could follow the saints, sharing their poverty,
their tribulations, serving them according to their needs.
And Evagrius made answer that he ~·:ould not be a fool like
Demas, that he would not surrender all his possessions and follow
the saints in their journeyings.
Then did Theone utter many words of scorn, deriding Evagrius
and praising Demas. And she·gave her letters to the youth, and he
promised that he would deliver them to the women of Berea.
Sc
274 THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Howbeit, Evagrius spoke on this wise : " I am one who can work
for Christ in my own time and in my own manner. Each limb of
the body hath its appointed labour; the hand may not serve the
body as the eye servetl). it. If I become a beggar I am naught.
Here in this city, while I have my shareof possessions, I am respected.
Here I have a name that is held in honour. So with many my word
is of weight.
"I would ill serve my Master Jesus if I sought to serve Paul and
Silas, for it hath ever been my part to command. I should be but as
the rotten branch that falleth from the tree ifI thus cast myself away.
" Wherefore I shall live according to the state of my fathers in
this town, and I shall seek among the people those who have under-
standing, and I will win them for Christ.
" He will be the better served by me if I thus labour according to
the measure of my strength. And let Demas, if he be wise, bide in
his father's house. Yield, and yet do not yield to him. Win him
by persuasion, and thus thou wilt be able to render a greater service
to Christ than if thou art led by thy folly to seek a life of hardship.
" Each man hath his appointed burden. Let him not take up
what is too heavy to bear, else will he fall by the way."
And Demas cried out : " Thou art as a caged bird caught by bars
of gold. I cannot be bound as thou art bound. Before Paul was
known to me he was known to my dreams. I had understanding of
.this great master when first my eyes beheld,him. It was as if he
had been with me all the days of my youth, one invisible for whom
I watched, one unseen yet the desire of all my soul.
" And so, when I hearkened unto Paul, he was no stranger to me,
he was the master, the king of my dreams, for whom I had waited
many seasons.
" I will seek out Paul and Silas, and I will be the bondman of
Paul. ' I shall wash his feet when he is weary, anoint his head and
tend him in sickness.
" I shall labour for him with my hands, so that he shall be free for
the work of preaching the Word of Christ. All the years of my life
shall be surrendered unto Hini, and I shall not at anytime lookback.
Gladly shall I give up all for Paul."
And Evagrius mocked at the youth, telling him that his soul had
not, and could not, grow wings. Wherefore he would, like a clipped
bird, fall to the ground, and mayhap perish.
But the youth heeded him not. And, when he had come to Berea,
he delivered the letters of Theone, and then he sought out Paul
and prayed that he might be of his company.
And, so earnest was the young man, Paul received him, and
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 275
promised so to instruct him he might in time preach the Word and
speak with his own race concerning the works of Christ.
There were devout Jews in Berea who had not for many years
gone up to Jerusalem, who were eager for knowledge, and believed
that the time was ripe, that the hour when God would manifest
Himself was at hand.
They were amazed to learn that the Son of the Most High had
been born of a woman and had lived among men in J udrea. And
they feared lest it were some false tale. So they studied the Scrip-
tures, so that the word of Paul and the word of the Prophets might
be compared the one with the other.
Some of these Jews were learned, yet they could not find aught
that was foolish or false in the teaching of Paul. And soon all were
agreed that Jesus was the Messiah, asJ1ad been foretold.
Paul spoke much with the women, who were Greeks and had been
instructed in the wisdom of the wise men of Athens. Yet they had
not been satisfied, and now were they glad, because they perceived
that the wisdom of the wise men was but a poor thing when the
Words of Life were imparted unto them.
And these women besought Paul to remain in their town and to
journey no more, but to be their shepherd, their teacher.
He was perplexed in mind, and still he yearned to return unto
Thessalonica. It was a great town, and fair had been its promise
for the Church. But word was borne to Paul that Jason and the
Brethren would suffer grievously if he appeared again in that city.
So he promised the Greeks that he would bide for a season in
Berea. And it was his design that if good tidings were borne unto
him from Philippi he would return once more to it. For he was
full sure that his vision at Troas of the need of Macedonia was not
yet fulfilled.
CHAPTER XXVIII
THE SUCCESSFUL DECEPTION OF EULIA CONFOUNDS NETHAN'S
SCHEMES: HE TRIES TO CONTRIVE PAUL'S MURDER
HowsoEVER, Nethan rested not. He learned that Paul was
preaching Christ in Berea, and so his mind was filled once more with
mischievous imaginations.
He sought out the politarchai, and he told them that Paul would
stir up the people of Berea, and that he would cause them to rise,
and mayhap to contend with the people of Thessalonica.
Sc*
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
Paul had been banished from Philippi, and was held to be a man
of evil repute by the Magistrates of that town. In the cities of
Galatia he had caused the people to make a turmoil. He was in
truth a sore danger to the commonweal.
And the politarchai sent a warning unto those in authority in
Berea.
Fearing they might not heed what was written, Nethan went
himself to that town and sought an audience with the Rulers.
He bad learned from certain of the Jews that many of the people
believed in the teaching of the strangers, and would not be easily
turned from their faith in the one God and the Messiah.
So he was careful with his words, speaking smoothly, uttering no
evil concerning Silas and Timothy. For it was his purpose to
divide the three saints, to cause Paul to be cast into prison or to be
driven forth from that country. Then he believed he could mould
the minds of Silas and Timothy, causing them no more to believe
in Jesus the Nazarene.
He would offer them gold, and promise them work and a place of
authority in the Synagogue. And he believed that these men
could not resist such bribes, for they were poor in their attire, and
they laboured sorely so that they might eat hyssop and bread. It
was the saying of Nethan: "Ye may sway the heart of man with
love, but ye shall sway their minds with gold."
Now in Berea there was a certain Greek whose word commanded
the respect of those in authority. He was a Magistrate, and
possessed much land, many slaves, and a wife named Eulia, who
was fair to look upon, who had also power and possessions.
She was a woman of learning, and she sat at the feet of the saints,
hearkening to their discourses and treasuring their words in her
heart. So she was mightily displeased when her husband recounted
unto her the evil tale of Paul as it had been related unto him by
Nethan.
And she declared that the Jew was a liar and a deceiver, that his
words were as false moneys, that Paul was the great Seer of Tarsus
who would kindle the lamp of God, causing it to shine forth over all
the earth.
Howbeit, her husband Euxine would not be constrained by her.
He told her that the Jew had a good name as a merchant, so must
his tale be true. And he led Nethan to his dwelling and bade him
recount his chronicle again.
And, when he had ended, Eulia summoned her slaves and bade
them remove Nethan from her presence, for he was loathsome as
the creeping darkness in her sight.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 277
Her husband was greatly angered, and promised Nethan that he
would tell the Rulers this tale concerning Paul, and he would be
flung forth as the lice that are foul and destroy what is comely.
But Eulia was a woman who could contrive strategies ; and
she knew the soul of man was as a tapestry, into which could be
woven many figures and devices if the woman were a cunning
worker.
So she put on costly apparel, and a feast was set.out in her garden
for her husband. And, when he came in wearied after the heat of
the day, she spoke soft words to him concerning his labours for the
commonweal ; and she marvelled at the work he had wrought for
the people. Truly they were safe from adversity and from the
plague of the lean years while he was in authority.
And she set a garland upon his head, chanting to him, causing him
to drink much wine. Then she told him that the slave had recited
unto her sayings that were vile, that had been uttered by Nethan
about Euxine. And he had mocked at her husband, laughing at
him for his foolishness.
And the slave at the bidding of Eulia, repeated the words that
had been put into his mouth, words that had not been uttered by
the Jew.
Then was Euxine roused to wrath and was prepared to hearken
unto his wife. And she did show him that the Jew was a jealous
man, who hated Paul because the saint had declared that both Jew
and Greek were equal in the sight of Jesus, his God.
And so it came to pass that the hood of dark imaginings that had
muffted the understandings of the Ruler was cast away from him.
And it was the lie told him by his wife, and not the truth she had
uttered concerning Paul, that had enlightened his soul.
He sought out the Magistrates of the town, and he spoke the
words his wife chose for him. They were of great weight with these
men, and tney believed, as she had declared, that Nethan was one
of the contentious Jews who strive to raise disputations and to
cause the men of other nations to war with one another.
They learned from the husband of Eulia the tales she had con-
trived, when, without knowing but through divination, she had
declared that Paul was driven forth from Thessalonica by the plots
of Nethan.
The noble Greeks of Berea closed their doors to the enemy of
PauL And they·went unto the Synagogue so that they might
hearken to his teaching and study ihe truths taught by him.
Paul rested for a space in that town, waiting for a call to come to
him from Thessalonica. He had learned that there were divisions
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
amo~Jg the Brethren in that city. Evagrius and Jason were not
agreed in matters of doctrine, and Paul feared lest the Church
should be cleft asunder, and thus might be weakened, and perad-
venture perish.
Howbeit, Nethan was one who could not be turned from his
purpose. There did bum within him such deep anger he could not
find peace even in the night-time. And, so tormented was he by
his jealousy of Paul, he went once more to Berea. He journeyed
privily, and did not make known his presence to many.
Now some of the Jews in Berea were not content, because so many
Greeks hearkened unto Paul and strove to be first in the assembly
of the faithful. They held that, because of the Promise, the Jews
were the chosen of God ; and so Nethan came with his evil tales in an
hour when certain of the Hebrews were prepared to welcome wicked
words.
And he told them that it was the purpose of Paul to cast dishonour
upon all Jews. The prophecy that in them all the nations of the
earth would be blessed was one that Paul sought to undo by setting
up as a God a Nazarene of ill fame.
Wherefore Paul was but a messenger of Satan. And he would
sow discord among the members of the congregation, so that the
order of the Synagogue would be overturned and faith in the living
God would pass away.
Then would tribulation and hardship fall upon all because they
had hearkened unto the servant of the Evil One.
Certain of the Jews made a vow that they would slay Paul, and
they cast lots with one another as to the man who should'seek out
the saint and smite him so that he died.
And Nethan declared that Silas and Timothy were deceived by
the words of Paul, and that no hurt should come to them. For
they would follow the observances of Moses, and would work no
harm among the people if the man of Tarsus was removed from their
company.
The Jew knew that trouble would arise if the three saints were
set upon ; for the Greeks were powerful, and would punish those
who made an assault upon alL
Now a young man named Micah was chosen as the slayer of Paul,
and he studied his ways, and learned that, after the labours of the
day, it was the custom of the saint to rest for an hour, and then to
go forth and teach the people in the cool of night.
Micah hid his weapon beneath his tunic and went unto the
dwelling of Meliah, where Paul lodged. And Demas was standing
nigh the door. And there was no other man or woman at hand.
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 279
The people were abroad ; it was a quiet hour and a time for a secret
deed of blood.
And the Jew said unto Demas : " Is Paul, thy master, within?
For I bear him greetings from the Ruler of the Synagogue."
And Demas made answer, " Yea, it is the hour when he sleepeth.
Let your greetings wait, and I will deliver them unto him when he
is roused."
But Micah made pretence that he must deliver into the hand of
Paul the letter that had been given him. And he told Demas
that there was a tumult in the market-place, amd that be should
go and witness the turmoil, which concerned a certain stranger who
had broken the law of the town.
And Demas went a little way, then did be turn himself about,
returning to the door. And he came upon Micah, who was hasten-
ing from out the dwelling, his face strangely twisted, yellow as the
lemon, and trouble in his eyes.
He would not tarry, nor would he answer Demas, who strove
to stay him, and, fearing some evil, to question him concerning
his baste.
Now, on that day, when Paul was passing along the road after
his labours, an old woman, a slave of Eulia and a believer, asked
him to halt and to come unto her mistress, who desired to hold
speech with him.
And, when he excused himself, the woman besought him not to
return to his dwelling.
He would not have hearkened to her if she h:ad not plucked at
his robe, holding it fast, declaring : " Master, it is according to
foreknowledge. Go not to your dwelling ; rest not in it. On this
eve the wind of the wandering dead is abroad. My heart is troubled
for thee, 0 holy man. There is danger when the dead are not
sleeping, but are about us and about thee, watching for the coming
of another."
And Paul told the slave that her talk was foolishness. Howsoever,
he followed her into the presence of Eulia ; and he perceived that ·
this noble woman was vexed in spirit. And when the door was
closed she declared that the old woman bad been troubled for an
hour or more. And she had the power of foreknowledge.
Then Paul answered that he feared naught, that he lived but
to do the will of his Master Christ. And, when his hour was come,
he would gladly face the torment of passing. Amd he spoke of the
need for all the saints to be of good heart, to have faith, so that
terror would be to them a thing of naught, which could no more
stir the mind or draw from it the sour wine of anguish.
280 "THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
CHAPTER XXIX
HOW NETHAN'S PLOT BECAME KNOWN : IT IS DEEMED BETTER THAT
PAUL SHOULD LEAVE BEREA: HE TAKES SHIP FOR ATHENS
THE husband of Eulia entered the chamber. As he stood upon the
threshold of the room he cried out, " Paul the Seer hath been slain.
Word has been borne to me that he slept upon his bed, and that
one came and smote him with a knife, so that he yielded up the
ghost."
Great was the a.rt:.azement of the Gentile when the living man
stepped forth from the shadow and uttered words that proved there
was no hurt upon him, that he was whole in all his parts.
And the Gentile declared that he would go forth and seek true
tidings concerning this tale. And he bade Paul rest within
his house, for he feared that some mischief had been plotted
against him.
After an hour or more Euxine returned in the company of Demas,
and the two had together shaped the true chronicle, since they
had gone among the people, gathering from them many tales that
had been woven about the slaying of Paul, as it was called.
The one who had sought his life had entered into a dark room,
and his sight was dimmed because of the shining brightness of the
day without. He could not perceive with anysureness all the gloom
contained. But, perceiving the bed, he smote it with a knife, and
a child, who had not been seen by the slayer, cried out in fear.
This man of blood believed that the cry came from the lips of the
saint, so he smote the robes that were heaped upon the bed, and,
casting his weapon from him, fled from the chamber.
Now it was the knife of a Jew, and Euxine believed that
some conspiracy had been made against Paul by the wicked
men of Thessalonica, and that they would not rest until they
destroyed him.
It is not easy in a town like Berea to hide from all dark deeds
that have been contrived. And so it came to pass that, in the day
that followed the deed of Micah, a Jew went unto the Ruler of the
Synagogue and told him how five young men of their race had
vowed they would slay Paul.
And this youth feared that the lot would fall to him, as Micah
had failed. So he besought the Ruler to free him from his service,
to send him to another town, for he would not shed the blood of
one of his race. And he gave the names of his comrades to the
THE THIRD PARCHMENT 28I
Ruler, when the Elder had promised he would not reveal them to
those in authority.
He told this man that Nethan of Thessalonica had declared that
Paul must die, else the whole race of the Jews would suffer grievously
from him in the after-time.
And, as Nethan was powerful and dangerous as a poisoned
spear, the Brethren besought Paul to depart from that land, and to
bestow upon Silas and Timothy the charge of the Church.
They would wait there for a short space, and, if other Rulers were
appointed in Thessalonica, they would return into that city, and set
the Church in order and heal the rents that had been made in it.
And Euxine . promised that he would seek to unwind the
mischievous designs of the Jews, and he would mayhap so deal with
them that Paul might come again to this land in peace, and the
Gentiles would welcome him.
And, when this man promised he would thus remove the evil
from the path of the saint, Paul consented to journey to the sea ;
and he resisted no more the entreaties of the Brethren that he should
depart, so that his life might be preserved.
Paul scorned danger, and was greatly distressed in mind that
it should be deemed needful that he should leave the Brethren in
this hour of uncertainty, when the Church was menaced by those
who should have welcomed it from their hearts.
And Eulia strove to comfort him, saying: "Strange and pure
as the wild flowers of dawn have been thy words, 0 great master,
and we shall always study them and treasure them as the most
precious of gifts. In a short space this evil plot will be revealed,
and thou shalt return from Athens. Then shalt thou win all the
souls in this land for Christ."
So Paul departed once again in the night-time, journeying to
the sea and taking ship for Athens. He was mucli weakened by
sickness when the heat of the season increased, and his strength
was overcome by the pains that possessed his limbs.
Howbeit, once he was upon the sea, the sickness departed from
him, and his soul was uplifted. He talked much with Demas,
who had been in Athens in other times ; and he became glad of
heart because he journeyed into the city that was known as the
Well of the World's Wisdom.
And Paul declared his design unto the youth concerning Athens.
In it abode many wise men, who, if they were persuaded that Jesus
was the Messiah, might give of their knowledge to the service of the
Master. Then would there be forged a noble weapon that would
overturn the defences of the powers of darkness, that would cause
THE SCRIPTS OF CLEOPHAS
the men of learning throughout the Empire to hearken readily to
the words of life.
Now Paul was one who builded great visions, who quarried from
the depths of his being mighty works for Christ. And though at
times he saw naught but decay and darkness before the people of
his generation, in other hours, when he was eager and whole in
body, he would believe that he could engirdle the whole earth
with the Churches of Christ, and so prepare the multitude for His
coming, few of the people would be lost and cast into the darkness
of the Pit.
The winds were fair, and soon the ship drew nigh to Pirreus,
and Paul perceived the Shining Spear of Athens, as was named
the goid weapon of its goddess.
He was stirred in mind, and gave thanks unto God, when he
perceived the town of his dreams spread out before him. And
he had the yearning of the reaper who goeth forth among the yellow
blades of wheat, rejoicing in the rich harvest that will fall to his
sickle.
The Word of Christ had been borne unto Rome, but no saint
had preached in Athens. And it was esteemed to be far greater
in wisdom than Rome, and far more wealthy in men of learning
and discernment.
And Paul believed that he would capture the people of this town
because they had searched through many generations for the
hidden gold of truth ; and so they would understand its worth
when it was laid before them. All the people of Judrea would
marvel if the students who thronged the schools in this town came
to believe in the Messiah and in the coming of the Kingdom of God.
Oft-times, when Paul entered into strange cities, into new lands.
he was fearful of spirit, and he would believe that failure must be
his portion, that the J ews and Gentiles would not hearken to him.
But, in the hour when he entered the city of Athens, no dread
possessed him. He believed that he would change the soul of this
ancient town; that whete there was so much wisdom there would
be the mightier faith ; and that men who had sought God zealously,
though in foolish blindness, would be prepared to worship Him
when the darkness was lifted from their sight.
GERALDINE CUMMINS
THE
CHILDHOOD OF JESUS
5/- "Great Psychic Book" SJ-
" In simple narrative that amounts to genius and in English that has no superior
in anything I have read, the story is told.... There is in every line a rhythm
and beauty which no living writer can match.... The whole work rings with
sincerity." - PSYCHIC NE.WS.
"The descriptions of nature in Galilee are beautiful, and one is conscious of a
poet speaking in some of the author's loveliest passages.... It is a pleasure to
commend a graphic and reverent interpretation of the Master's youth." .
THE. RE.CORD (The Church's oldest Newspaper):
"It is a book that paints a picture colourful and tenderly lovely."
6/-
SUNDAY RE.FE.RE.E..
FREDERICK MULLER LTD.
BEYOND HUMAN
PERSONALITY
Great Sequel to the Great Success
THE ROAD TO IMMORTALITY
(4th Thousand)
6/-
"The whole is intere.sting.•.. The chapter on Prayer is very fine."
SIR OLIVER LODGE.
"There is no question that the book will comfort and give new hope to the
bereaved and that it will be of incalculable interest to all thinking men and
women."- YORKSHIRE. OBSE.RVE.R.
" ... They throw light on many of the profoundest problems of human existence.
. . . The book is full of very striking material."
ABE.RDE.E.N PRE.SS AND JOURNAL.
"The remarkable utterances in this book.... To those who have lost loved
ones this book may indeed bring real consolation."-BRIGHTON HE.RALD.
" By far the most important communication of its kind ever received from the
Other Side. putting in the shade even The Rood to Immortality."
SHAW DESMOND in THE. TWO WORLDS.
IVOR NICHOLSON & WATSON
Obtainable from all bo::ksellers or from
"PSYCHIC NEWS," I« HIGH HOLBORN, W.C.I
Postage 6d. extra
GERALDINE CUMMINS
PAUL IN ATHENS
Sf- (The Cleophas Scripts. Vol. II) Sf-
" ... This gorgeous narrative ... every chapter in the volume contains some
new richness.... A human drama so wonderful, so heart-searching in its appeal
to every pitiful emotion. ... In Paul in Athens I found myself arrested again and
again by the beauty of the phrases-as lovely a.s those of the Bible."-LIGHT.
"Paul in Athens is excellent : an amazingly able presentation."
SIR GILBERT PARKER.
" . . • Amazing in its beauty of utterance and directness of appeal."
THE TWO WORLDS.
"But what invests these writings with a permanent value is their inherent
significance and the illumination they cast upon a period of which so little is
kr,own historically."-THE REV. JOHN LAMOND, D.D.
7/6
THE GREAT DAYS
OF EPHESUS
(The Cleophas Scripts. Vol. Ill) 7/6
"Here is a sustained, authoritative, and detailed account of the beginnings of the
Christian Church, ... for those who have read the preceding volumes, the
wonder inspired by such writings will be only deepened.... Every simile, and
of these every page has its example, suggests the East and the unconscious
poetry of an early time. There are internal evidences that make the miracle of
this chronicle stand out as something entirely remote from our time...."
E. CE. SOMERVILLE, Litt.D., TIME AND TIDE.
"An extraordinarily interesting book."- EVERYMAN.
" A vivid narrative which fills gaps in the sober and restrained record of the Acts
and relates particularly to t he period of the writing of the Co rinthian Letters.
• • • It is worthy of note that in these scripts it is John the Elder, son of John
the Apostle, who is the author of the Fourth Gospel."
PREB. DR. WINSTANLEY, CHURCH OF ENGLAND NEWSPAPER.
" No one can read t his work without being profoundly impressed by the writing
of Miss Cummins."-MERCURY, TASMANIA.
PUBLISHED BY RIDER & co.
34 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON, E.C.4
PSYCHIC PRESS PUBLICATIONS
ADVENTURES WITH INSPIRATION
By HANNEN SWAFFER. Famous people interpret inspiration.
ls. 6d.
WHEN MEN TALK TRUTH
By HANNEN SWAFFER. Fiction based on psychic facts.
ls. 6d.
LIGHT IN OUR DARKNESS
By W . S. MONTGOMERY SMITH and E. M. TAYLOR.
Spirit communications from a "dead" wife. ls. 6d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE OLD TESTAMENT
By The Rev. G. MAURICE ELLIOTT. A frank, modern parson
explains biblical "miracles". ls. 6d.
THE PSYCHIC LIFE OF JESUS
By The Rev. G. MAURICE ELLIOTT. Throws a new light
on the wonders described in the New Testament. Ss.
TEACHINGS OF SILVER BIRCH
EDITED by A. W. AUSTEN. The spirit world's philosophy as
presented by the famous spirit guide of Hannen
Swaffer's home circle. Ss.
SPIRITUAL SONGS
By Mrs. ST. CLAIR STOBART. A hymn-book freed from
theology.
Without music, Is. Od. With music, ls. 6d.
MATERIALISATIONS
AND THE CASE O F CLIVE-HOLMES
By HARRY BODDINGTON. The laws behind psychic
phenomena and a medium's martyrdom. ls. 6d.
WHAT MEDIUMSHIP IS
By HORACE LEAF. World-famous medium tells how t<> de-
velop psychic powers. 3s. 6d.
These books can be obtained from Psychic Press Ltd., 144,
High Holborn, London, W.C.I. The following amounts for
postage should be added :-Up to 3s. 6d.... 3d. Up to
lOs.... 6d. ·
PSYCHIC PRESS PUBLICATJONS
ARTHUR FINDLAY'S FAMOUS TRILOGY
ON THE EDGE OF THE ETHERIC
Spiritualism's best seller. Over 40,000 co,pies sold. 3s. 6d.
THE ROCK OF TRIUTH
A challenge to OrthodOX)'·
THE UNFOLDING U"IIVERSE
Ss. Od.
The evolution of man's concepCion of his place in nature.
7s. 6d.
INDEX TO
ARTHUR FINDLAY'S TRILOGY
By A. E. NEALE. Contains 15,630 references. ls. 6d.
THE TORCH OF KNO,NLEDGE
By ARTHUR FINDLAY. A novel woven around psychic facts.
Ss. Od.
THEY SHALL BE COMIFORTED
By MAURICE BARBANELL. This book s•~ts out very simply
the case for Spiritualism. ls. 6d.
THE TRUMPET SHALL SOUND
By MAURICE BARBANELL. Survival p1
roved by voices of
the "dead". ls. 6d.
PARISH THE HEALER
By MAURICE BARBANELL. Story of the W<Jrld's greatest
healer today. ls. 6d.
AN INSPIRATIONAL BIRTHDAY BOOK
By 'BRENDA'. An excellent gift book wrth philosophical
extracts for each day of the year. Ss. Od.
These books can be obtained from Psychic Press Ltd., 144,
High Holborn, London, W .C.I . The follo,wing amounts for
postage should be added :-Up to 3s. 6d.... 3d. Up to
lOs.... 6d.
PSYCHIC PRESS BOOKLETS
I. THE HUMAN AURA AN'D HOW TO
SEE IT
Price 7d. post free
2. PSYCHIC HEALING
Price Is. Id. post free
3. TRANCE STATES
Price Is. Id. post free
The Set of Three-ls. 6d. post free
All by HARRY BODDINGTON
4. THE PHILOSOPHY OF
SPIRITUALISM
By W. H. EVANS Price Is. Id. post free
5. THE PRAYER BOOK X-RAYED
By MRS. ST. CLAIR STOBART Price l~d. post free
The Set of Five-ls. 6d. post free
Obtainable from-
PSYCHIC PRESS LTD., 144 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON,
W.C.I
SPIRITUALISM'S NEWSPAPER
containing
THE LATEST NEWS ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
THE BEST EVIDENCE FOR SURVIVAL
THE FINEST EXPOSITION Of SPIRITUALISM
BY ITS LEADING THINKERS
2d. EVERY THURSDAY
Obtainable from any newsagent or bookstall;
or write for free specimen copy to
"Psychic News," 144 High Holborn, London, W .C.I
~,,,,,~,,,,,, , ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.
I -
~ PSYCHIC BOOK CLUB ~
I -
I -
: SEPTEMBER CHOICE ~
1 I
I I
I ,
: THERE IS NO DEATH :
I I
I I
: By FLORENCE MARRYAT :
I I
I I
: This book will be sent to members on or about September lOth :
I I
1 I
·------------------------------------------'
