{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__clymer___the_hermetic_concept_of_success.pdf","mytitle":"The Hermetic Concept Of Success","mylang":"de"}
THE
HERMETIC CONCEPT
OF SUCCESS
*& *
SOURCE OF TEACHINGS
The present Monograph is based on, and is a
Digest of, the writings of Hargrave Jennings, the
Rosicrucian Initiate; Richardson, greatest of all
modern Occult Masters, and the Philosophy of
Fire, by R. Swinburne Clymer, M.D., wherein full
credits are given.
THE
HERMETIC CONCEPT
OF SUCCESS
The Hermetic Key That Will Unlock the
Door to Achievement
Teaching the Laws Which Make Consummation Possible
on All Three Planes of Being: Physical,
Financial and Spiritual
M IND, THE ARCH ITECT AND BUILDER
The Arrangement of the Laws as Taught by the Initiates,
Masters and Adepts Belonging to the Hermetic School;
the Application of These Laws to Modern Conditions
and Environments; Their Interpretation Making
Them Applicable to All the Affairs of Life,
and All Notes Throughout the Text
By
R. Sw in b u r n e C lymer, M. D.
Sovereign Grand Master
of the
C o nfederation of I nitiates
(Registered)
Published by
T H E PH ILO SO PH ICA L PU B LISH IN G COM PANY
BEVERLY HALL, QUAKERTOWN, PENNA.
Copyrighted 1938
PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING CO.
For the protection of the vast number of Aco­
lytes and to maintain the purity of the Arcane Sci­
ence, and at the same time prevent the contaminat­
ing influence of profane commercialism, the terms
“Secret Schools,” “The Initiates,” “The Great
Work” and “Soul Science” have been protected by
registration in the United States Patent Office at
Washington.
THE HERMETIC CONCEPT
OF SUCCESS
For more centuries than man is willing to admit,
it has been a fundamental belief that the successful
business man could not be a spiritual success. To
attain worldly honors was to risk heavenly bless­
ings. Those seeking spiritual gifts, such as salvation
of Soul, had to forego riches and honors and the
good things the earth has to offer.
Furthermore, though the fiat was cast in the be­
ginning of time that men must “live by the sweat of
their brow,” it has been the dream of most men to
be able to evade physical effort and attain a position
which would permit them to live in luxury and idle­
ness.
Lastly, it has been a universally accepted belief
that all things of a spiritual nature would have to
be accepted in faith and, however great the faith,
could not be demonstrated.
Every single one of these conceptions is funda­
mentally WRONG. Man can achieve success and
honors honestly and without the exploitation of his
fellow-men. He can attain the highest spiritual de­
velopment, a complete Soul Consciousness of his
own Divine origin, and at the same time achieve
worldly success. Riches and honors may go hand
in hand. It depends upon the methods pursued.
Those who have reached spiritual enlightenment
5
The Hermetic Concept of Success
now know that labor is not debasing. It is essential
to mental and physical well-being. The fewer the
hours of labor, the greater the opportunity for the
animal or carnal nature in man to become debased
and bring destruction to himself and others. Labor
is honorable; it is desirable; it is destructive only
when enforced beyond reason—the Divinely appor­
tioned eight hours a day.
Spiritual enlightenment and Soul Consciousness
are not alone a matter of faith. They can be dem­
onstrated by first accepting the fundamentals with
a faith strong enough to apply them to the activities
of life and mode of thought, and then by bringing
into manifestation those powers which alone belong
to the Soul and the Soul’s relation to God (the
Creative energy) and all that is governed by the
Divine Law which governs the universe and all that
is therein. Fiat Lux! And man shall know.
6
THE HERMETIC CONCEPT
OF SUCCESS
The Hermetic Key That Unlocks the Door
to Success
Material success is the clarion call, sounding the advance of all
men in this, the twentieth century of achievement, in the realm of
physical science and spiritual knowledge.
Success is a science. It is governed by its own Laws, which are
absolute when properly applied. To gain real success, the heritage
of every free-born man and woman, one must consciously and
scientifically mass his or her potential qualities until they resem­
ble in force the movement of a mighty current and then choose
the one quality which is strongest of them all and the desire for
whose gratification is most overpowering. When thus massed and
the one quality has been selected, the ability to direct this force­
ful energy will be at the command of the individual, to be di­
rected as desired, and with the assurance of returns conforming
to the energy released.
In the very beginning success must be aimed high. The Law,
call it God or Father if you will, under which we are born and
whose children we are, desires and directs that we shall seek for
much and choose from the best of all that is laid up in the great
Universal storehouse.
Success can be grasped by being fully prepared and constantly
master of the situation and by and through the activity of a posi­
tive, controlling and directive Will—a Will which never wavers
or falters in any situation or under any condition. There is an
old saying descriptive of being thus ever ready: If you see a star
falling and can clearly make a wish before that star disappears,
your wish will come true. Basically this is true. It indicates that
the desire is so embedded in the mentality, so constantly in mind,
7
The Hermetic Concept of Success
that it supersedes all else and must draw to itself the thing
desired.
We who most succeed in the accomplishment of a set purpose
are we who, standing firm, fix a certain mark, prepare ourselves
for the purpose in mind, and from this the Will never swerves or
changes. We say truly: “Irrespective of physical conditions, no
matter what opposition is offered, the prototype of it within our­
selves claims it as its own.” Thus the ego or real self moving for­
ward step by step, from vantage to vantage, in the end conquers,
as it has a right to conquer by reason of superior fitness and
stick-to-it-ness. The human Will, fortified by knowledge, derives
its liberty from the freedom of the Divine Over-Soul, to which it
is allied and related, and which desires the success of all its in­
dividual units.
From Abram to Abraham
We find in the book of Genesis a description of the Soul’s
growth from darkness to the heights of sublimity and illustrated
by a type of man called Abram. After a long and useful life and
when he had reached the age of ninety and nine years he was able
to talk with God. Before that time and during all those years he
was merely a type, a negative, having all the possibilities of the
God-man, but failing in the direction of any of these potentiali­
ties. But when he was ninety and nine he fell on his face; that is,
he liberated himself of the activities of the carnal senses and was
then able to recognize and communicate with the Godhood or
Divinity within himself. At last the spiritual or Soul man was
brought into spiritual consciousness. Previously he had attained
to nothing more than all the generations which had gone before
and represented mankind in toto. Now, by self-recognition of all
his forces and powers, the Soul-fire or spiritual self within had
become awakened, and he became a god and father and a leader
over many nations, which, mystically interpreted, indicates that
he had become Master over the natural forces resident in man
generally and awaiting awakening and direction. He was hence-
8
The Hermetic Concept of Success
forth called Abraham; that is, father—a creator or exponent in
his own right.
Nothing on Earth Is Unimportant
In the Divine Logos, or Spiritual world, success is symbolized
by the Veiled Lamp, or Absolute Wisdom.
In the intellectual world it is prudence directed by the or­
ganized and developed Will.
In the physical world it is circumspection directing action
through knowledge, science overcoming mystery.
Thus we see in unfolding life that prudence is the armor of the
Sage or Initiate. In physical life circumspection leads man to
avoid the rocks and breakers of unrolling or unfolding destiny,
teaching him to beware of treason to either God, the Law or his
fellow-man, lest the reaction of the Law take again from him all
that he has gained and even that which belongs naturally to
himself.
All choosing the Veiled Lamp or the road to Wisdom as their
guide in all their acts, even in the merest trifles, will never submit
to defeat in anything worthy of doing. Nothing on earth is actu­
ally unimportant; a pebble may alter the destiny of both man and
empire, and as a rule it is the smallest incident which sometimes
leads to the greatest achievement. An infinitesimally small thing
left undone because of its seemingly unimportance is the key to
failure all along the line and makes ultimate success impossible.
The loss of a tiny screw in the largest and most intricate mecha­
nism may cause it to be useless, though otherwise perfect and
capable of functioning to complete satisfaction.
“Know All Things, But Remain Thyself
Unknown”
In the search for success, let all remember that if speech be
silvery, silence is golden. Therefore, if he who seeks success can
keep silent, the odds are in his favor. More failures can be traced
9
The Hermetic Concept of Success
to words idly spoken, secrets revealed or offense given through
looseness of tongue than to all other factors combined. “Know
all things, but remain thyself unknown” should be on the escutch­
eon of all who seek the ultimate in success.
The law underlying success is that of Love. Love’s messenger
is attraction, a magnetic force. Once comprehending how to send
forth the message of success, one can draw all things lawful unto
himself, because that same Law of Love demonstrates the Law of
Vibration, which again is attraction of its like in another form.
This does not, in its true application, encompass drawing to the
self anything for a selfish or unworthy reason. He who loves self
alone shrivels and consumes himself under the intensity of his own
self-kindled fire. Success under spiritual law must have as its
intent and purpose the benefit of the self, to be sure, because all
things begin with the self, but it must have another motive as the
impelling purpose. Man is lawfully permitted all things which
are for his benefit and enjoyment, but there must be the opposite
of the Law also; that which will bring benefit to others and be
for their welfare.
Success may be considered as a triad, three sided. Each side is
absolutely necessary for the building of a symmetrical structure.
These three are: Desire, Preparation and Expectation or Recep­
tion. In this, our present age of the recognized power of the un­
seen or Occult forces, there is freely opened to many a method or
system of thought higher than any ever before known to the
intellectual faculties or the human Soul. In fulfilling the promise
to those constantly seeking to realize the presence of the Most
High, or operation of the Law now functioning, great things have
been revealed and continue to be revealed.
The great and mighty experiences of the past have brought us
the conditions for the present realization. The present opening
up of the funds of Wisdom, the sweeping changes and onward
march, unfold all knowledge of the Law and of Him who is back
of the Law and enable us to make use of the Law and harmonize
ourselves with the operation of the Law. The sublime promise of
10
The Hermetic Concept of Success
the Future is: All wisdom will be given those who now are willing
to master the Law and its application to the works that should
be done.
The Fountain of Life Is Within
All substance expresses' ideal embodiment. Evil is no more than
a misapplication and misuse of ideal substances and results in
abortions of the ideal. All things are the evolvement of that sub­
stance, plus its application. Substance is the material out of
which all matter is formed. From the substance we must neces­
sarily draw our supply in one manner or another, the method not
being particular so long as it does not infringe upon the rights of
others.
If we Occultly affirm: “God (the Law) is my supply,” then, to
truly and logically manifest according to the affirmation, we must
look within, as did Abraham, to the fountain of life and source
of all things, of which the outer man is but a reflection, or, as
voiced by Hermes: “The inner is like the outer, the lower like the
higher,” thus drawing the attention from the environment to the
inner reality. BUT, if that inner condition or reality be in chaos,
then it is not to be expected that perfection will issue. “Like
attracts like” and, equally true, “Like produces like.” Such is the
Law; “Each after its own kind.”
We have a right, as demonstrating one of the three sides of
success, to expect so-called miracles or wonders which are the re­
sult of the unwritten, yet operating, Occult Law. If we hold our
i eyes steadily fastened upon the one Divine Cause, unselfish Love—
God in manifestation—nothing is impossible that can enter the
thought of man or be pictured by his imagination. God imagined,
• and it was so. Man, being the microcosm, a small replica with all
its part of the whole, he likewise is the same power in limited
form.
This drift toward bringing forth and manifesting our thoughts,
desires and expectations is a do- trine promising speedier and
more pronounced methods for attainment than any hitherto em-
i
The Hermetic Concept of Success
ployed. It is growing more and more prevalent under the present
conditions, of perceiving for ourselves the creation or manifesta­
tion of our thoughts—a materialization of the inner potency in
the outer form.
The Spiritual Element in Man Should
Always Rule
A new heaven or a new earth in another sphere is no longer
looked for or thought necessary. Hands are already upon the
ploughshare of production and reproduction, clearing away with
as little confusion as possible the erstwhile impossible social and
economic conditions; building the paradise of success upon God’s
promise of abundant supply, which may be tapped just as quickly
as we recognize the Law of Personal Responsibility and Equal
Exchange. This is simply to state that success on all planes, ma­
terial and spiritual, may be obtained by a superior and scientific
understanding and application of mental and spiritual Laws in
their direction of material affairs, conditions and environments.
This heritage is awaiting those whose hearts are filled with the
desire for rightness and fairness, who are trying to live a rational
life, one free from taint and degrading tendencies. Those who are
striving for money, honor or power alone—things which are no
more than the symbols of success, and to satisfy carnal appetite—
will not succeed and would never be satisfied even if they did
succeed.
All true success results from man’s ability to collect and prop­
erly group atoms of energy. One must preserve the inherent no­
bility of Soul in order that the grouping may be harmonious and
the inner Law of power be expressed. The world does not furnish
one single example of permanent and constructive success but
that based upon the principle that in the conflict of forces the
spiritual elements in man must overcome the tendencies of Na­
ture’s diverse law. There can be no contradiction of this state­
ment when all the facts of spiritual law leading up to success are
understood.
12
The Hermetic Concept of Success
Generally considered and classified, worldly success is now a
form of progressive disease. The greater the success, the more
intensive the selfishness and the hunger for power. Possessions
become an obsession, no longer to be properly applied along ave­
nues of construction, but to be hoarded. As the selfish desires
increase and progress, cruelty becomes part of the nature so that
others are sacrificed in the accumulation of a still greater hoard.
This is not real success. It is merely an accumulation which
gradually corrodes and destroys man, body, mind and Soul.
The Invitation to the Golden Feast
“Come, all things are now made ready. Behold, I have prepared
a feast for you.” This is the perpetual invitation out of the in­
visible silence. The rest man must do. It is we for whom the
repast is set. It is we who must accept and eat, digest and assimi­
late the food upon the table, before we can come into individual
contact with the Universal storehouse of supply of all things.
The table is set. The work of God now rests. It is for us to act.
This Law has been repeatedly pronounced to us, but we have
failed to apply it. We are still the slaves to our inertia. We still
innately feel or subconsciously believe that either the world owes
us a living or that some other force outside of ourselves should be
compelled to feed, clothe and supply us with our needs. We are
forgetful that in sight of the Law no man is greater than another.
Each must be responsible for himself. No human creature is so
important to man, to the world or to God, so as to be made an ex­
ception and be compensated for weakness and idleness.
Why not begin to improve at once the opportunity for under­
standing and knowledge such as will enable us to do our part in
the building of that most subtle of mansions—character—the Soul
strengthened by effort and enlightened by inner development,
which must crown every ultimate, known success. We must will­
ingly, aye, even gladly, cast away our own idols, which we worship
and caress, so long as we cling to them and delude ourselves in
thinking them realities.
13
The Hermetic Concept of Success
So long as the idea that poverty—so-called ill fortune or failure
—is husbanded by us, believing it to be something beyond our
control, just so long'are we inert to burst the fetters which bind
us to weakness and slavery in some form. Through such mis­
conceptions we deprive ourselves of our inherent freedom and
remain our own gaolers.
To some it may be a startling assertion when we say that we
can actually make our life just what we choose it to be. Never­
theless, it is fundamentally true. We can fulfill our desires as
surely and as truly as we learned to walk and talk. It does require
effort and patience, but effort becomes a pleasure when results
begin to appear. Success is as much a part of man’s destiny and
as truly an obligation as it is a possibility when his forces are
husbanded and properly directed along avenues of construction
and accumulation.
Consciousness is the center of attraction for all success. It is
the Universal Light for our own individual sight. All we can at­
tract by our own mental volition, by our individualized, vital
force, becomes more and more keenly powerful in expression as
the atoms of life become more and more spiritualized. We may
with profit watch our desires unfold from bud to blossom, from
blossom to fruitage as we progress, and judge with a degree of
certainty what the ultimate result will be.
Consider the Lily
The lily of the field and pool has been held up to us as a sym­
bol of true spiritual progression with a perfect reliance of the
source of supply. Of it has been said: “It toils not, neither does
it spin.” Why not? Because it knows its own perfection lies in
the intangible secret of the “Father and I are one,” or “The Law
which gave me existence will, if obeyed, vouchsafe my well-being.”
It knows, symbolically speaking, before bursting its covering on
earth, that by adjusting itself to the conditions of darkness and
silence for a time this very condition of rest will cause It to gen­
erate a force with which to pierce a wall of great thickness and
14
The Hermetic Concept of Success
lift its head into the brightness of the sunshine. It knows its
petals will be touched with color, the like of which no artist can
imitate. Its contour of form cannot be chiseled by mortal hand.
And yet the same spirit which permeates the lily also leavens
man’s Soul into larger type. The exact proportion of the life-
giving ray is not lessened nor added to in either case; it is simply
a differentiation of the modes, of the grouping of atoms.
But this is not the whole story of the lily. The lily obeys every
law of nature without question, because it is true to its own nature.
It does neither toil nor spin, it is true, but neither does it ask
anything of any man or the world. On the other hand, it gives
everything without recompense: its beauty, its encouragement to
the weary and sorrowful, and offers itself as a lesson of the gen­
erosity of God or the Law which created it. It spins not, nor does
it toil, but it gives and continues to give until its life span is ended.
The lily accepts the Law. Unconsciously, it is true, but it is
according to its nature. In man faith for a time must take the
place of such ready, unquestioned acceptance. Faith is lacking in
man because he bases all his conclusions on the actions of other
men, unaware that their actions are not in harmony with the Law
and, therefore, abnormal actions.
Faith must, for a period, take the place of actual knowledge.
Faith then turns into knowledge. At first we can only know by
that subtle and certain guide which is known as intuition. Lo­
gicians claim this to be a defective faculty, but it is as much a
God-given power as any other visible and manifested faculty.
We cannot cognize the “substance of things hoped for” until we
feel within ourselves that it exists. It is the feeling or inner sens­
ing, the consciousness, the Soul-sense, that brings us into complete
faith and which is so much needed. More than aught else, it is
necessary to better the condition of the thousands of struggling
Souls who seek a less painful fate than the slavery and bondage
which have been fastened upon them.
15
The Hermetic Concept of Success
Soul Consciousness Gives a New Meaning to Life
We are all truly magicians. We handle our wand of destiny
according to our own Laws. If we know the Law and direct it
scientifically and with a masterful hand, we walk on to
thrones (1). Fate and circumstances are manacled under our
feet. Hitherto the possibilities of the Adam man (the carnal
man) have not been fully recognized or appreciated. Man h,as
been blinded to his capabilities by ignorance. In our present cen­
tury of magnificent potency and accomplishments, in this period
of revelation of man’s power over physical things, we are able to
claim our God-given inheritance or royal prerogatives if we obey
the Law. Thence we may begin to climb the heights attainable
in the mental and Soul realm, no longer puppets of fortune to be
ground down by the wheel of fate as it rolls pell-mell over us. On
the contrary, man may be ruler of his own world kingdom. With
thought so polarized, the mind unfolded, the Soul conscious, life
takes on a new meaning and glimpses a view of “that yet to be.”
(1) Napoleon is our greatest example. He set forth to
conquer a world. His thought-desire was Brotherhood. As
he progressed in his plans he was destined to become con­
scious that, though he did establish such a Brotherhood on
earth for man, after his task was finished and he passed on
there would be none among all he knew either fit or capable
of maintaining such an Ideal State. As a result of this awak­
ening he conceived the idea of a son so that he might leave
the government of his conquered world to his own progeny.
Selfishness naturally followed the lowered Ideal, and all he had
sacrificed, suffered and fought for was lost, and he himself
became the circumscribed slave of the forces he had awakened
but could not continue to direct.
All win success in some degree. It may be only successfulness in
being miserable and incompetent, but this proves we could be
otherwise if our powers and energies were properly exercised and
used. We are as free to enter the Light as we are to linger in the
darkness of the Light’s shadow.
16
The Hermetic Concept of Success
It Is a Delusion to Think That the World
Owes Man a Living
What, in reality, does success mean? Some answer: accomplish­
ment. This alone does not fill the conditions of true success. Be­
hind all accomplishment, in its broadest sense, there lies a subtle
something called by the wise “the upholding of accomplishment.”
In common parlance, “nothing succeeds like success.”
Success is not merely in attaining a certain status in the affairs
of men. To succeed and then to lose that which had been at­
tained is the height of failure. But to succeed and then to be
strong enough to apply and direct that which we have attained
and obtained, to the greater betterment of ourselves and to the
benefit of all others—that is success in truth.
There are thousands of experimenters in the professions, in the
liberal arts, amongst artisans of all varieties of work, amongst
traders in all kinds of commerce, who are simply standing on the
average mass equality. Only here and there is one who cares to
labor with patience to make for himself or herself a brilliant
success. All the rest of the mass still live under the delusion that
either God, the World or Society (Government) owes them a liv­
ing. These are the most pitiful failures because they never become
conscious of their own handicap as a result of their ignorance of
the operating Law.
However, doing as others do, accumulating perishable material
which may be lost or taken from us tomorrow, is not success. It is
no more than a symbol of the real which may be ours. The in­
spiration does not appear, as so admirably expressed by the grand
old poet Virgil. In singing of a winning crew in a boat race he
concisely said: ‘‘Possunt quia; posse videnter”—they are able be­
cause they seem to be able—and which we moderns would state
as: “They are able because they believe themselves capable of
winning.” This is success. It is not simply accomplishing a task.
It is the inspiration which is the heart’s wish that gives the power
of adding accomplishment to accomplishment. Each step must
17
The Hermetic Concept of Success
bring renewed vigor and courage for a higher and greater effort
on the next occasion of necessity.
Doubts and Worries Keep Man From
Being Successful
Our accumulating doubts and worries, the single but deep-rooted
fear, are potent to withhold success from us where otherwise we
would come into our own. Such doubts and fears may even finally
reverse the vibratory forces accumulated as a result of our knowl­
edge and the efforts of our training. Failure is never the result of
the things we need not being ready for us, but because of our
weaknesses, the courage to go forward, lack of inner perception—
these are the things that win for us in the struggle.
We are like the lady of tradition who, after earnest and im-
passionate prayer to the Lord for rain, immediately after nullified
all the vibrations she had set in motion by her conclusion of:
“I don’t believe it will.” The mass of humanity are like that.
They live in the borderland of misfortune and non-success; they
are always about to be but never actually blessed because they
stop short just when success might be achieved. Even in those
instances where unbelief does not give birth to a positive and
impassable barrier, it is nevertheless a serious and impending
drag on their energies and efforts, frequently sapping and neu­
tralizing the life forces and preventing its expression in the ac­
complishment of a worthy object or noble purpose.
Lack of preparation frequently nullifies every effort made, even
destroying the benefit of success itself. It is much as when the
man of business casts forth the fiat: “I am going to put forth all
the exoteric means at my command and win success.” He does so,
and the response is immediate. But despite the success, ultimate
results demonstrate that there existed doubt in his innermost
thoughts and heart. When he made his declaration he failed to
make provision for enlargement, for storage capacity to provide
for the business he invoked and expected. As a result, the large
volume of business he commanded was well within his grasp when
18
The Hermetic Concept of Success
he found himself without the facilities to handle it successfully.
John the Baptist voiced this Law of Preparedness when he
said: “Prepare ye the way of the Lord; make his paths straight.”
That is merely to say: “Qualify yourself and clear away the
physical rubbish, so that the inner Consciousness can work out
the Law you invoke for yourself. When seeking success along any
avenue of endeavor, plan, prepare and act as though success had
already been achieved.” This is preparing for success by expecting
success.
Success Requires an Intensified Desire
God’s promises never fail when we comply with the condition
of His or the Law. He says most emphatically: “Ask and ye shall
receive.” Why do we fail? Because we question, we doqbt; our
faith is not as great as the proverbial grain of mustard seed.
It was not thus with the biblical character Noah, who believed
and consistently preached in an age of unbelief, incompetence and
degradation. Not alone did he preach the things he felt were to
happen; he made full preparation for the fulfillment of the
prophecy. This was all done under a continual fire of doubt and
utmost discouragement from all sides. The fear of opinions of his
fellow-men affected him not one iota. The building of the ark
went steadily forward until it was completed. According to the
sacred records, he and his alone obeyed the Law and were amply
rewarded for their faith.
It is the underlying motive and not the surface conclusions
which determine the ultimate result of all human activity. One
constantly sees man toiling as did the fabled criminal in Tar­
tarus who, trying to roll a huge stone to the top of the high hill,
always found that, as he had but one more effort to make to
finish the task, the stone would again be lying at the bottom,
necessitating the work to be done all over again.
This is the manner of success men and women often vouchsafe
to themselves. More or less content to drag out their existence in
distressful poverty or suffering under the excuse of “what is the
19
The Hermetic Concept of Success
tt-
use?” which acts as a sedative, deadening the activities of posi­
tive action and endeavor, they fail to gain the mountain peaks
of accomplishment and success; the moving power of the mighty
Will, which is man’s Divine heritage from his Creator, is im­
peded and obstructed.
There is no success in such instances, nor can there ever be,
because all active desire for it has become dormant, and even the
ability to plan for it has faded into nothingness. Without a
single salient point or aim, the necessity for success becomes a
myth in the chain of such an existence. He who resorts to any
stupefying influence, irrespective of its nature, on mind or body,
encases himself in an adamantine envelope from which even the
shock of a major misfortune can seldom free him.
“Success or Chaos Is Mine”
There is a wide difference between carelessness and content­
ment. It is not a manifestation of contentment, but of careless­
ness, which holds man in the vilest surroundings such as could
readily be changed for the better if the effort were not lacking.
The person who is so held by environments and circumstances
has little right to dream of success because only the worthy, those
making the necessary effort, are entitled to the reward of their
endeavors to improve both themselves and their surroundings.
“He who seeks success in untried fields,” says a teacher, “must
bum his bridges behind him. He must be prepared for any or all
of the deprivations that can possibly beset the Soul as a part of
the discipline of attainment.” True, he may never be called upon
to endure, but he must be willing, always ready, ever prepared to
pay the price success demands. He who seeks success in an un­
tried field or along new avenues, with the thought in mind: “If it
fails I can always return to my old position or environment,” has
the seeds of failure actively growing in his subconscious self. The
thought of success is: “I will try. I will try yet again and again.
I will refuse to even think of retrieving or admitting the possi­
bilities of failure. Success or chaos is mine.”
20
The Hermetic Concept of Success
Thus far we have considered only exoteric success—the symbol
—which the worldly wise as well as the philosophers have dis­
coursed upon through the ages with more or less practical effect.
There is another side of vantage, also called success.
A biblical writer enjoined upon us to “seek ye first the kingdom
of God and His righteousness, and all these things (power, wis­
dom and possessions) shall be added unto you,” but who is there
seeking religious inculcations and biblical injunctions in connec­
tion with the search for worldly success? How little the mass
appreciated the age-old truth that, whether they be cited as God’s
Laws, religious inculcations, Nature’s Laws or the Laws of Suc­
cess, they are but ONE and the SAME Law—the underlying
principle of constructive activity, and that whatever is construc­
tive must build, must bring forth, must bring possessions to the
one directing the operation.
Man Is a Harp of a Thousand Strings
The Sages, teachers or Initiates in communicating knowledge to
the pupil and others frequently employ an Occult language, per­
haps a word or two, often so seemingly inappropriate that the whole
thought seems juggled and almost incomprehensible to the aver­
age mind. So it is with the quotation just given.
What is signified by the phrase, “Kingdom of God”? “King­
dom” is a term frequently used by Initiates and Magi, the wise
and learned, to signify power and dominion, the exaltation of the
spiritual, mental and even physical.
The Kingdom of God, then, must be the power of the Divine or
unseen, of the unlimited, as distinguished from the purely human
and limited. Hence, the Acolyte seeks the power of God, of Om­
nipotence, as of first and greatest importance toward accomplish­
ment. It is not consistent to think that we are to sit down in an
inane, lifeless manner and simply wish for success, waiting for it
to come to us, especially when we remember that God, or the
Creative, producing Law, is ever active. We are to seek, which is
to say, put forth every effort, all power to attain that which we
21
The Hermetic Concept of Success
seek; cultivate and awaken every possible vibration of latent,
potential drawing power within us. That we cultivate every fac­
ulty so assiduously that when, Occultly speaking, the Master of
Hearts passes his fingers over our “Harp of a Thousand Strings,”
it may be well tuned and responsive to the slightest vibration of
all that is lasting and desirable here and now, as well as in all of
future time.
Man Must Harmonize Himself With the Law
of Supply
Having sought on all planes and even “taken something by
violence” as commanded, we are really and truly prepared with
the one means that can render man powerful, insuring to him
uninterrupted success. It is only after we attain this point that
defeat becomes impossible. It is then, when rising to the con­
sciousness of our “oneness with the Father,” which is to say, with
all reality, that all things become possible.
It is essential that we be thus fully armed and equipped and
living and dwelling in the consciousness of the certainty of power,
to make it possible for all other things to be added—to flow—or
be drawn—toward us. We must not alone develop the magnet
which creates and draws success to ourselves, but that such suc­
cess and increase in plenty be of benefit to others as well (2).
More than even this, we must open the way and show the path to
others who are seeking the route we have taken. Self-help is first,
and, having been helped, it is mandatory upon ourselves to be of
help to others.
(2) The sun is a nucleus of cosmic rays, and these ray
are continually thrown off and attracted to the earth by
means of the earth’s magnetism. These two, the rays of the
sun and the earth’s magnetism, give life to all things living.
Man must imitate the sun. Having become a reservoir of
power and success, he should freely and willingly “cast such
influence upon all he contacts.”
The Hermetic Concept of Success
It has been truly said that “Man’s power is greater than he is
aware of, and the depths of the forces of the mind have never
been fathomed. He can do all things, once he truly believes and
is willing to fully enter into his ‘oneness with God,’ or which
might be differently stated as ‘when he is willing to wholly har­
monize with the Law of supply.’ ”
Let us give some consideration to this phase of our subject by
placing emphasis on the fact that in the final analysis God is all,
in all and surrounding all. We must either admit this or declare
there is no God and that matter is the only reality. This last
statement has no basis in fact, because the merest tyro in physics
is fully aware that matter is ever changeable and, therefore, but
temporary. If, then, in seeking success and inner advancement
we accept it as truth and with full faith, that his (God’s) power
is within us, and everyone to the degree of his consciousness, and
that this power be sought first, the “upholding of accomplish­
ment” may truly be expected and ultimately realized.
“I and the Father Are One”
Success, implying and embracing constructive accomplishment,
is of itself an attractive center toward which all allied things are
drawing, again impressing upon us that “nothing succeeds like
success.” The movement toward such success commences as soon
as the thought of such possibilities is established in the mind and
changes to probabilities and then to an absolute certainty. The
Initiates of the Secret Schools have always taught that Jesus, him­
self an Initiate, because of his attainment of Soul Consciousness,
performed his apparent miracles by the application! of his knowl­
edge of Laws unknown to the mass of mankind.
His work was in no sense supernatural, since he used natural
means, but was entirely in accordance with the Laws of the Her­
metic and Alchemic Schools, the changing or transmutation of the
gross into finer elements. The Law best understood by him and
of which he spoke most frequendy and emphasized most was that
of oneness of the Creator with the created.
23
x
The Hermetic Concept of Success
This he enunciated fully when he said: “I and the Father are
one.” In other words, he sought for and found the kingdom of
God within himself, and which by right belongs to all men who
are willing to accept the Law and attain as a result of obedience
and the practice of the precepts taught. Quite frequently he em­
phatically stated that whatever he was or had done, other men
might do and be.
Appearances are misleading unless they are accepted as settled
facts. That which frequently appears a failure may, under proper
direction, prove a magnificent success. Nor is it always true that
the things which appear to be either failure or success count most
in The age of fulfillment, but rather is it the inspiration and the
aspiration which is the incentive and which offers the inducement
to others, | As the great Temple of Atlantis was once buttressed by
the mountain beds, so now it stands at the bottom of the ocean,
still fulfilling its mission, though not apparent to mortal eyes.
Nature Perfects Herself Only After
Her Own Kind and Species
It is well known to all searchers of Occult truth and for the
higher life that in all ages there were those called the “wise ones”
—the Magi—searching for success, the Philosopher’s Stone, and
called it the “Great Art.” When questioned concerning their aims
they answered: “We seek to change or transmute all base metal
into gold; incidentally, to find the recipe for the Elixir of Life,
which transforms all who quaff thereof into a continuous life of
health and Immortality.” It is these who were the founders of the
Secret Schools, who evolved the plan of life and who have been
the guides of all who truly seek.
In the confessions of capable and tireless pioneers who, having
labored for centuries to blaze through the wilderness of the ma­
terial world a new path to success, we frequently find statements
like this:
“Wherefore, I conclude, believe me; leave sophistications and
all those who believe in them; flee from their sublimations, con-
24
The Hermetic Concept of Success
junctions, separations, congelations, preparations, disjunctions,
connectors and other deceptions. And let those keep silent
who affirm a tincture other than ours, which is not true, and brings
no profit. And let them keep silent who speak of sulphur which
is different from ours, which is concealed in magnesia (philosophi­
cal) ; and who wish to derive quicksilver, except from the red
servant, and other waters than ours, which is permanent, which
unites to its proper nature and moistens nothing save that which
is one with its own nature. Nature perfects herself only after her
own kind and species.”
From these carefully veiled instructions we interpret in plain,
simple words that we cannot manipulate matters simply to pro­
duce results in any condition or position of living; it is the influ­
ence they yield over all other things which is the ultimate con­
sideration. Especially is this true of all healing which material
medication does not produce; likewise, and beyond question, is it
so of the conditions which we have in mind—Success.
It must be conceded and accepted that all the effective, vibrat­
ing, vitalizing forces are the result of continually exerted individual
Will. The Will is our portion of the Universal spirit—the main­
spring of the golden coil—power, the kingdom of God which is
to be found within ourselves.
Desire Is the Foundation of All Success
We have already called attention to what is said to be an old
Persian saying: “If one sees a falling star and can formulate a
wish before it ceases its fall, that wish will be granted.” The
foundation of success, it cannot be too frequently reiterated, is
the complete permeation of the mind by the thought desire which
permits its instant utterance under any condition.
Desiring success in business, success fortressed by aspiration and
inspiration, we must possess the courage to be perfectly honest
with the inner self and keep within the limits of the Golden Rule,
which might be paraphrased as: “Do not unto others that which
you would not have them do unto you.” Otherwise fear and weak-
25
The Hermetic Concept of Success
ness will breed dishonesty; through these will come failure. Faith
in, and consciousness of, one’s power, once acquired, is half of the
victory in achievement in any chosen direction.
To attract the things necessary to make life vital and com­
mendatory, the God (Universal) power within should be con­
tinually given recognition. This can be cultivated. How, you
ask? By the constant assurance of yourself that you are seeking
to become a conscious individual which necessarily must be a child
of God. Thus one need never allow a dishonest or dishonorable
thought to creep into the consciousness, nor permit any dishonesty
to creep into a transaction. Each negation allowed within the
consciousness will necessarily weaken the individualism; will
build enervating elements into the physical-spiritual structure and,
if permitted to remain, work toward self-destruction. The elimi­
nation of all imperfect elements from the realm of Soul building
will ultimately establish Divine Harmony in the microcosm or
little world which is man.
Man Must Find His Own Center
of Consciousness
To become a perfect magnet, an instrument of attraction har­
moniously tuned, we must tune ourselves to the Keynote of the
universe, the Macrocosm; to the Law which is Infinite because
unlimited and never changing, and to the Love atmosphere which
alone can light the fires of the Soul center.
Once coming into complete unity with the spiritual essence on
our threefold plane, we will be unable to encompass dishonesty
in any phase in our efforts toward success, and, unbelievable as
this appears in a world of almost universal dishonesty (3), dou­
ble dealing will not be necessary, nor any help, toward true success.
(3) It is questionable whether any age known to history
or to man was so honeycombed with dishonesty as the pres­
ent period. Nations scrap treaties made with each other as
of less worth than scraps of paper. They war with each other
26
The Hermetic Concept of Success
without possessing the honesty or decency of declaring war.
Nations war upon their own citizens, destroying them as
though they were so much vermin. Nations practice confis­
cation of the property within their borders belonging to other
nations or nationals without thought of recompense. Indi­
viduals of nations and families repudiate their contracts with­
out a thought of responsibility. Manufacturers and unions
enter into solemn agreements, only to break them at the
slightest misunderstanding. Property is destroyed as though
it had no value and without a thought that the destroyer is
responsible for the destruction. In all the realms' of the deal­
ings of man with man there apparently is but one contract
still held intact—the poor man’s signature upon the face of
the collateral whereon he borrows money. This being true,
nations universally face disaster unless they ijight-about-face
and accept personal responsibility for their! contracts and
exile their rulers who refuse to do likewise.
Any failure to recognize the sense of power flowing from the
inmost being—our own conscious center of consciousness—breaks
the connection or contact with the Great Center of; both the Mac­
rocosm and spiritual spheres, rendering man cowardly and im­
potent toward actual accomplishment. Until a man attains con­
sciousness of his own worthiness and that he is too much a man
to be untrue to himself, he will be unable to find the Christos
which is his own Illuminated Soul and known to men as the
Christ. True, he may find the outer, the material man, Jesus, and
therein put his trust without awakening his real or ideal nature
and find himself in the darkness of failure. Here again we find
that the Master-Teacher uttered a scientific truth when he said
that the kingdom of righteousness (rightness) must first be sought
and, when found, be immutably made a part of the Soul.
Success Is for All Who Make Themselves Worthy
Not until we recognize the Law of Personal Responsibility and
awaken the consciousness within to at least an appreciable degree
27
The Hermetic Concept of Success
will the power be ours to draw to ourselves the things needful for
everyday life. Not until we achieve to this state will the beggarly
spirit of ignorance, fear and weakness leave us and free us; and,
as children of an all-embracing Father, we may command—be
potent to command—our loyal and princely birthright.
Any amount of worldly goods may be bestowed upon us or be
accumulated by us, but if we still be beggars in spirit, what avail
is it to us? How long will we have it before it will be taken from
us? Let us truly live and, so living, also give the same privilege;
yea, more, to our fellow-men which we claim for ourselves, though
be careful and have the strength that the vicious take not advan­
tage of our generosity and fairness. If we do thus, then very soon
eternal forms will be clothed with robes of glory, symbolizing
power, possession and potentiality; and poverty and squalor, the
warp and woof of the garments in which fear wraps herself, will
flee us.
Success is for all who make themselves worthy of it. In the at­
tainment it is not so much the outer substance with which we must
deal, but the spirit of abundance which awaits the inner call based
on the assurance of readiness. Neither is it people or things with
which we must trade in order to fully enter into possession of our
estate. We are assured that our “kingdom is within us.” If this
be true, then it is certain that the king or the “Master” of the
estate reigns there. It is the Master’s realm, and His throne is
there. The one Spirit of which our Consciousness is a part reigns
forever and permeates all matter. We are part, or may be part,
of the Great Whole; therefore, the wide earth may be in our grasp
as may be the heavens above us. It is our heritage, but we must
earn it and have the strength to take it. We are everyone bom to
success and the lawful heirs as part of the whole. There is noth­
ing the matter with the title or the legacy, but we must be able to
prove our right, for the judge upon the throne who applies the
Law can neither be bought nor misled. None can take our share
from us, but we may lose it by lacking the proof of our
worthiness.
The Hermetic Concept of Success
To Know—to Do—to Dare—to Keep Silent
Our principal study and care, the object of our search and
work, is the sclj. The machine we must learn to handle carefully
and with skill is the mental-physical, the human creature which
can set at naught all laws, both spiritual and Divine. How can it
be otherwise? Time and again we have been impressed with the
self-evident truth that “the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak,”
as well as that “a house divided against itself cannot stand.” We
know from many experiences how weak the flesh is, how strong
carnal desires. It is a serious and most difficult matter for us to
tune our dual elements to a harmonious key when the body, vig­
orous in its physical perfection, is capable and able to demand the
helpful guidance of the Soul’s Consciousness to the harmonious
octave above.
In our search we must diligently avoid all that weakens the
body under the excuse that this will permit and manifest the
spirit’s willingness. It is only the intense, everywhere-present,
illimitable power of the spirit (Soul Consciousness) which can
make the flesh willing to know, to dare, to do and to keep silent.
Unless we compel on the instant the consenting attention of every
part of our body, a voluntary compliance and obedience, as the
instrument of the awakened Soul, we will always be decidedly at
a disadvantage. Such an uncontrolled body is much like a balky
horse whose driver can never be certain of obedience, or an in­
opportune resistance resulting in loss. In every instance relating
to the mutual concern of the body and Soul the Soul must be
acknowledged an absolute director and dictator.
Concentrating the Will to One Set Purpose
Thus having the lower, the carnal, mortal self in obedience
rather than mere subjection, knowing that within reach there is a
table bountifully spread with all the good things the earth can
supply, and yet know that unless the hand is put forth to partake
of those good things, we will surely starve to death, although in
the midst of plenty, it becomes necessary for us to fulfill our part
29
The Hermetic Concept of Success
and stretch, forth our hand to help ourselves. Thus truly is it
said that “the Lord will help those who help themselves.” All
things being arranged, we must voluntarily, consciously and will­
ingly fulfill our part in the Divine drama and thus assure our­
selves of success.
The one axiom as unchangeable as the law of the Medes and Per­
sians, as essential to success as is the earth for the domiciling of
the race and the accumulation of things material, is the persistent
projection of Will with a set purpose and the co-joint effort to
obtain that which we desire.
The force insuring the accomplishment of any definite purpose
is Universal energy. Knowing this to be true, our entire existence
is to be aligned with this Universal essence that it may be directed
by our conscious efforts, just as we would control and direct a
powerful but highly complicated machine. In this manner we
energize action with a part of the Universal or Divine Energy
which is generally called God.
Once set into motion, this Universal force works constantly
along the avenues in which it is directed. It may be a day, a
month or years before the necessary dissolution and readjustment
of the old material, the old self, will give place to the formative,
inspiring conditions required for the new structure.
During the entire process of reconstruction the Great Work is
carried forward atom by atom. Moment by moment the old is
forced to give way to the new. The ultimate result, the perfection
and the means of attainment all are a part of the new life, the
new being, and mean success.
Mutual Exchange Is the Law
Success is not an accumulation of money, the winning of fame,
nor yet the cultivation of power. All these are desirable and ad­
vantageous, but it is the settled conviction of the spirit, the Soul
within, of the inability of mundane conditions to resist the silently
expressed desire which the Higher Self directs.
Man declares: “I am success!” And every single declaration,
30
The Hermetic Concept of Success
in proportion to the intensity of the vibrations set in motion by
the command and the efforts made, will bring him nearer to the
end to be achieved. Success is at once the cause and the result of
itself. We make or mar it for ourselves. Not only can we com­
mand helpfulness from others, but by the same unalterable Law
we are compelled to be of service to others in the proportion we
have been helped. The Law is mutual exchange, yet, strange as it
may appear, we lose nothing by it, but gain as we give.
There is a simple illustration of this. The man who has become
successful in a financial way is a capitalist. He seeks for invest­
ment whereby he may increase and perpetuate both his capital
and his power. He decides to bring fuel oil into a vast, outlying
district not heretofore served. He must purchase the right-of-way,
he must buy and lay pipes, he must build storage tanks and finally
he must connect the supply lines with the source of service. All
this commands an immense outlay. It is a huge risk, but in this
respect it concerns only himself.
In order to accomplish his desire so that he may reap the bene­
fits, he must buy an immense amount of material, giving work
and income to many; he must employ men to lay his pipes, giv­
ing them an income, and finally he will make life easier for the mul­
titude of people and at less expense for heating than they paid
before. The benefits to the mass of the one man’s desire to make
a profit are unaccountable, and despite the fact that his idea was
a selfish one, nevertheless, he has accomplished, and continues to
do, an immense amount of good. But that is not the end; the
fact that such a man has amassed a fortune demands of him that
he subscribe to many public charities, and good is done which
otherwise might have been impossible.
Suppose this man had concluded that the means he had accu­
mulated were sufficient for his needs and the needs of his family,
and that further efforts were useless, then factories would have
remained closed, countless workers idle, poverty apparent and
heating laborious and expensive. As it is, selfishness has been the
means of benefiting a countless number. Such selfishness is not
evil, but constructive and helpful. It is only when selfishness robs
31
The Hermetic Concept of Success
others, degrades or exploits them or takes rights and privileges
from them that it is evil and destructive. Time and again these
latter days the benefit becomes the welfare of the many, and thus
the good of one is simply expressed as “One for all and all for
one.” Divine justice thus emphasizes the truism that success is
the common property and the heritage of all.
“All Things Are Possible to Him That Believeth”
Are we in need of special help along some particular line? Do
we wish to free ourselves of all doubts? Is it our desire to free
ourselves from the destructive, enervating, paralyzing sense of
fear which dominates our thoughts, feelings and desires? If so,
then by every possible known means we must train the mind and
the eyes to look high above the entanglements of the material
conditions and see the radiant glory and brightness of the Ideal—
the real success. We must hold the gaze steadily upon that
thought-ideal which is to be built, must realize with all our heart
that the probabilities and possibilities exist and set about the
building of them. We must never be laggard in accepting the
ever-present invitation of the Law: “Come, for all things are now
made ready.”
The Master-Teacher said: “Whatsoever ye ask, believing, ye
shall receive.” So many ask, but in their heart of hearts there is
not the slightest faith that it shall be so, nor is there sufficient
faith there to induce them to make the necessary effort to obtain
that which they seek. It is an inert request, coming forth from
the mouth, induced by a selfish desire. Then there is that other
injunction; or shall we call it a promise? “All things are possible
to him that believeth.” This is a Law of the Soul known and
taught by all the Initiates, and might we not well here call atten­
tion to the fact that, great and almost unbelievable as have been
the teachings of the Occult Masters, everything they have taught
or now teach, improbable as it may appear, is covered by this:
“All things are possible to him that believeth.”
It is the unquestionable (even in his mind), conscious belief
32
The Hermetic Concept of Success
in himself which enables the financier to manipulate the market
or stock exchange successfully. “Unto him that hath shall be
given” was the inculcation of the meekest of all men. Why? Be­
cause the possessions in hand or under his control give him reason
and cause to believe he can gain more. This gives him faith and con­
fidence in his own power. It illustrates the phrase: “Nothing suc­
ceeds like success.” A purse well filled with the symbol of power
and success assures success much more readily than an empty
pocket and a hopeless outlook. The latter has nothing; therefore,
for want of incentive and encouragement, he constantly expects
still less or failure if he makes an attempt to succeed. His fears
thus active unconsciously draw to him less instead of more, and
thus we see illustrated another axiom: “The thing that I feared
has come upon me,” though it would be more truthful to say:
“My fears have caused good fortune to forsake me.”
How Miracles Are Wrought
The doubter—and they are multitudinous—will naturally
question: If man be a failure, how can he believe in his own
capability to succeed? It is simple. There is a Law of the mind
which provides that if a proposition be repeatedly set forth, even
though it be thoroughly doubted at first, it will in the end, sooner
or later, be accepted by the latent consciousness within as true.
This is an Occult Law and underlies the certainty that he who
tries and tries again, however great or many the failures, will
ultimately succeed, irrespective of the seeming impossibility of
the thing he attempts to do. Thus are miracles wrought. The
sooner the failure accepts this Law as a truth, even against all
the odds of environments and the bondage of circumstances, the
quicker will he be able to taste the first fruits of achievement.
Such acceptance and application of the Law will reveal the secret
spring opening the doors to success.
We must refuse the suggestion of the possibility of failure to
reach either the mind or the Soul. Such a suggestion must be
considered as a mortal enemy to be eliminated at all cost. We
33
The Hermetic Concept of Success
must insist, even though it be mechanical at first, that we are
gaining, winning in the battle and visioning success.
Let him who hath not consistently refuse to see the lack and as
courageously fight the possibility of envy of the success of others
entering his heart and consciousness. Let him insist at all times
that he is becoming what he desires to be, then gradually, deep
in his heart, believe in the possibility,—faith will spring forth and
grow. Faith will blossom into assurance, and assurance is the in­
centive to achievement. At all times while seeking success think
and live exactly as though success were already a fact. Thus one
thinks and acts success, and the vibrations sent forth will be such
as to draw success.
In the attainment of any goal there is work for the Soul to do;
it must feel, aspire and reach forth for that which is desired. It
must contact the .ZEtheric spheres of the God-world or Cause-
world-plane wherein all things are created by our own thought-
desire long before the slightest shadow of exterior manifestation
can appear.
“Unto Him That Hath Shall Be Given”
There is an equitable Law, as part of the science of human
life, teaching the Soul that cheerfulness and expectant realization
of the fulfillment of desire are far better for its growth than un­
certainty and worry, both of which are grounded on doubt. “Unto
him that hath shall be given” is no longer to be considered an
unjust Law. The self-recognition of our own magnetic power of
attraction is the basis of this Law. With this in mind we have
the reason why the man who keeps faithfully the Ten Command­
ments fails to win in the game of life, while the man without prin­
cipal succeeds in amassing a fortune and gains recognition. The
latter has become part of the Law of being as important in its
essence as the whole ten other Laws, whereas the one who keeps
the Ten Commandments has ignored that most esoteric Law of all
Laws—the command to believe and to receive.
Not only are we human magnets ourselves, but we are com-
34
The Hermetic Concept of Success
posed of an aggregation of forceful, life-centering atoms, every
one of which is a magnet. Each atom is a center of life, pulsating
toward a polarization such as every individual may claim for
himself.
Vitalized energy is expressed by its own mental activity. Every
function of the physical body should be thus vitalized in order
that, at the command of the ego or alter-self, it may express itself
as a creator and manifestor. It has been shown that brain sub­
stance is found in the finger tips of the blind. Why should it be
found there and nowhere else in the body save its commanding
position—the skull? The brain substance accumulated in the
finger tips of the blind is resultant of constant and effortful con­
centration at that point of the body.
God is concentration because concentration is centralization,
and centralization absorbs everything unto itself and forces and
compels it to unite with itself. The first atom of brain matter
must then have been a manifestation resulting from concentration,
hence a part or an essence from God. Why not diffuse such es­
sence in all parts or functions of the body? Thus, each would
become an independent and conscious thinker, co-operating for
the good of the whole (4).
(4) This is the ideal for governments. The effort must be
toward making every citizen a self-governing unit, all units
working in harmony with each other. Every unit must ob­
serve the Law, as must the central sphere, the directing body.
Centralization must be in the individualized unit, all units
working toward a central unit. Thus will the “least be as
great as the greatest among you.”
Recognition of supreme life force or energy through all parts of
the whole is the basic philosophical thought for success along all
lines: health, love, business, harmony, continued youthfulness
and Immortality of the Soul.
Love Is the Supreme Law in Development
It is not years which cause time to express the wrinkles upon
35
The Hermetic Concept of Success
the face, the decrepit attitude of the body nor the decadence of
any of the senses; it is the diffusion and lack of conservation of
the life-carrying, fluidic essences called by one of the prophets
“The wine that is found in the cluster.” It is the waste of life or
vital forces which impress the signature of age upon the body,
which draws the shades of death about the most beautiful of God’s
creations and finally drops the curtain of shadows, diaphanous
though it be, between the mortal self and Immortal sphere. The
waste which clogs and decays comes through self-indulgences of
every kind: anger, lust, dissipation, over-feeding and ignorance of
the Law which would conserve our forces—the Law that holds
within itself the function of teaching us wisdom, giving us knowl­
edge of the correct moment to act and to close the door of the
Secret Chamber wherein is centered the most precious of all gifts,
the Soul’s recognition of God or the eternal verities.
This can and must be attained through the mental attitude and
recognition of the needs of both body and Soul. The body must
be made the perfect symbol of the Soul’s expression and manifest
power, mental and spiritual development.
Love is the supreme Law in development. It is the ideal foun­
dation upon which must be builded our mansions of success. The
most subtle demonstration of this law is through the union of the
masculine and feminine principles in united expression. Such a
union is the focus of all creative energy whose exoteric action and
ultimate is success. It is individualized vitality by which is gen­
erated and then expressed the closeness or oneness with the “I
AM TO BE” principle of existence. Through its potentialities
regeneration has its beginning. In the process of regeneration the
essence of transmutation is engendered. By the recognition of
one force as important as another, through and by conscious ef­
forts toward concentration, is the ultimate attained, whatever
it be.
The Four-Square City
These various considerations make it plain that the centering of
36
The Hermetic Concept of Success
sex force is for a far higher purpose than physical creation or
self-indulgence, because in the enfoldment of this function is
wrapped the germ cell, the cornerstone, the foundation principle,
upon which must be built the “Four-Square City,” the “Royal
Square,” the indwelling sphere of the Living God. In this manner
we lift the floodgates linking us to the Universal supply. The
waters of Life and Consciousness pour over the ego, and all the
intricate machinery of being, from atom to organ, quivers and
thrills at the impact; transmuted force becomes continuous and
establishes equilibrium, which is how success is won.
In the search for the soul of all things there must be no barrier
to the individual Soul when once it has found its own Center.
Each step brings it into a higher perception of life; the mystery
of life becomes unveiled; wisdom is the Book whose leaves are
turned for the reading. The Soul of man has already accom­
plished much of its mission toward the completion of its own
symbology, but there are yet many steps to be taken in rounding
out the human mold to a perfect symmetry.
The man whom nature has fortunately endowed with a body
fit for the residence of a god, who expresses the masculine quali­
ties to a superlative degree, is one who should cultivate the passive
graces until his individuality is crowned with the graciousness of
the ideal feminine, while the timid, guileless woman must add to
her own innate chastity the masterful quality of the masculine
Soul and so express in her type all the attributes of a perfect
incarnation.
“Let There Be”
It must be constantly held before the mental vision through
which the ideal is formed that, by conservation, perception and
correct use, the life forces are lifted up, and all existence is fused
into the Ineffable Light—the Golden Fleece. This has been the
search of the ages. The acme of all effort depends upon the per­
fect understanding that sex exists in every atom of existent life
and that sublimation is the aim and end. Manifestation is dual.
« 37
The Hermetic Concept oj Success
The duality is masculine and feminine—active and passive, posi­
tive and negative. One cannot exist without the other because of
the attracting unity—the law of action or harmony—as a result
of the command: “Let there be.”
Life is more or less constant change; change is progression;
failures are part of life and result from ignorance. So-called
failures should be forgotten by magnifying each success. Look
for and believe in victory, and the awakening and unfolding Soul
will do. the rest. Forget small annoyances by visioning greater
opportunity. Then in summing up affairs we will find that our
investment in faith has paid large dividends.
f In all the affairs of life, while taking the morning bath, pre-
/ paring for breakfast, walking for the car, walking from place to
I place, going to lunch, keeping an engagement, at all times have
in mind the thought: “I am doing these things because they will
\ advance my success, for now I am becoming more and more con-
\scious of my alliance with the Divine Law—God.” /
Insist to yourself that all is well, as it should be and for your
own good. Smile and see the sun shining. Sooner or later you
will express all this in your face, the light in your eyes, the way
you walk. Others will begin to notice the change, be attracted to
you and open to you the opportunities for your success. Fully
half of your work will be accomplished.
It is through obedience to the Law that we are enabled to
“commune with the angels.” The ministration of the Hosts of
Paradise will begin as soon as the lower self is delegated to its
proper position—in the background where it no longer has power
to keep the good things of life away from us.
The Law of Success Is Concentration
From the Father’s house the demand will be supplied accord­
ing to the daily needs. The supply will never be lacking except
because of the non-recognition of the inherent (God-given) power
within us. However numerous and accumulative our miseries and
•
38
The Hermetic Concept of Success
so-called mishaps may be, if we become conscious, as we will, of
the oneness with the Source of all that has been, is or shall be,
we may always win the battle and come into our own. Let us
build by our faith and efforts a foundation made of such sub­
stance as cannot sink. Let it be upheld by the eternal Law, which
is incapable of destruction.
When once we know what the “kingdom of God” is and come
into our own through our efforts, we will know how to create suc­
cess without wounding ourselves or others in the conflict. Having
the faith to work and wait, we will become fully awake to the
fact that man can neither give nor withhold from us except as we
permit it. Success in life, the basis of all worth-while accomplish­
ment, is not a matter of luck or chance, except in a few instances
due to Karmic reaction. It is a matter of proper training and
equipment for the race and the end to be attained, the goal to­
ward which every energy of mind and body must be directed, and
should be one which Nature has fitted the aspirant to achieve.
Steadfastness of purpose is admittedly an indispensable quality
because the Law of success is concentration.
It is necessary to bend all the energies to one point and to pro­
ceed without looking to right or left. The range of knowledge has
increased so enormously that, except in rare instances, the brain
of one man cannot master more than one subject The man who
would succeed in the world must single out the line of activity
which he designs to make his specialty and into that pour all the
energy of his nature. Broad culture and many-sidedness are beau­
tiful things in theory, but it is the men of single vision and in­
tense purpose (5), who steel their Souls against every desire that
interferes with their chosen one, who accomplish the difficult work
of the world and who are everywhere in demand when human
need is greatest.
(5) This has in mind some special vocation: Law, medi­
cine, business, invention. Besides the vocation, one should
have an avocation, be this music, art, literature or spiritual
39
The Hermetic Concept of Success
subjects. Here again we see the operation of duality. The
vocation is one’s business; the avocation is one’s spiritual
need.
Success Cannot Be Won on Proxy
Everyone seeking a successful achievement should carefully
study his own nature and know his own strong points of charac­
ter as well as his weaknesses. Everyone bom has some special
talent which will indicate the direction in which he can succeed to
the best advantage, success being the result of placing themselves
where their special talent may be made available and applicable.
The successful man in any calling is the one who can truly
say: “I am master of at least one thing.” With the exception of a
few master minds, the men whose names have been handed down
to us by history are those whose lives were devoted to some single
great achievement and who gave their all to such purpose (6).
(6) A single purpose may be many-sided, as, for instance,
inventions. The great musician is not satisfied with master­
ing one composition. All music is his goal. The great artist
no sooner finishes one masterpiece when he starts another.
Art is his guiding star. So along the whole line of achieve­
ment.
It was Charles Dickens who said: “Whatever I have tried to
do in my life, I have tried with all my heart to do well. What I
have devoted myself to, I have devoted myself to completely.
Never put one hand to anything on which I would not throw my
whole self [mind, body and Soul], and never to affect deprecia­
tion of my work, whatever it was, I find now to have been the
golden rule.”
Whether your life shall be successful or not is a question which
must be answered by yourself alone. No one can do it for you;
it cannot be done by proxy. A real desire to succeed is the first
requisite, and if that be strong enough, all opposing barriers will
give way before it. Strong determination and perseverance will
40
The Hermetic Concept of Success
bring you to the goal of success and prosperity. The real differ­
ence between men, the weak and the powerful, the great and the
insignificant, is energy properly directed by an invincible deter­
mination. A purpose once fixed, then death or victory. This
quality will do anything that man or God can do in this world,
and neither talent, circumstances nor opportunity make a life suc­
cessful without it.
Man Lives Under the Law of Labor
The rules of conduct which will bring success are those which
heed the dictates of the conscience—the God-consciousness within
us—and rather lose an apparent advantage than win it by doubt­
ful methods. The obedience given to the voice of conscience will
not ultimately require the sacrifice of any real advantage. On the
contrary, it will lead to an honesty of character that is of the
greatest aid in achieving lasting success. Disappointments and
difficulties will be encountered and must be overcome by energy
and determination to win and add strength rather than weakness
to achieve victory in still greater conflicts.
The list of men who have overcome what appeared to others
insurmountable obstacles is a long one and includes practically
all of the Immortals. Difficulties may intimidate the weak, but
they only act as a wholesome stimulus to men of vision and reso­
lution. All experiences of life serve to prove that the impediments
thrown in the way of success may be overcome by activity, con­
centration and perseverance and, above all, by a determined
resolution to surmount difficulties and stand up manfully against
seeming misfortune.
There are many who in their eager desire for success overlook
the difficulties in the way; there are as many others who see
nothing else. The first class sometimes fail, but the latter rarely
succeed.
Success is not possible without labor, and labor is not only a
necessity; it is also a pleasure and the law of our being, for is it
not written: “By the sweat of thy brow shalt thou live”? It is
41
The Hermetic Concept of Success
by the active use of the powers and forces given us by Nature
that we find happiness, peace and the perfection of our character.
More and more do we hear the murmur and complaint of an
ever-increasing number against the law of labor under which we
live, without reflection on their part that obedience to it is not
only in conformity with the Divine Will, but likewise necessary
for the development of the human- and God-intelligence within
us, and also for the thorough enjoyment of our common nature.
Thoughts of Love and Good Will Are
Returned With Interest
Of all wretchedness, idleness is the worst. Those whose lives are
barren of utility, who have nothing to do except to gratify their
animal senses, who become embittered because of their selfish
self-consciousness and who, though too inert to work and accumu­
late for themselves, envy all who do. The lot of the idler and of
those only partly employed is not to be envied, for idleness means
the loss or refusal of opportunity and, therefore, the decay of all
the inherent, God-given powers.
It is the workers, those who never count hours, whether rich or
poor, who have given the world all that is enjoyable today. To
the men who have been forced to work from necessity or who
have chosen to work from choice, and to all those who have
thrown all their heart into their work and have loved work for its
own sake, we owe all of the great achievements which have made
it possible in this century for the laborer to command more of the
comforts and luxuries of life than a king could a short century ago.
The men who succeed know what they want to do and who in
addition apply the power of Will and Concentration are those
who know how to avoid obstacles in their path or to remove
them. He who infringes on the rights of others builds barriers
which will surely prevent him from attaining his end, because he
defies the Divine Law which governs success. It is possible to win
42
The Hermetic Concept of Success
success, honor, laurels, etc., without wronging one human Soul,
and no success which is secured by degrading others can be
lasting.
He who wins peace of self and carries happiness (contentment)
with him every day of his life wins success that is worth more
than any other, and success of this nature can only be won by
carrying always in the mind, even when in the midst of conflict
and contention, thoughts of kindness and love to all. When you
send out thoughts of good will and charity to others you receive
in return influences of the same nature. If this be continued
throughout life, every step taken will be aided and directed by
the powers and principalities which govern the universe, whether
we believe it or not.
Spiritual harmony in one’s own organization produces an easy,
perfect rhythm of harmony in all we have to deal with and opens
the road to success, while the man who is full of the spirit of
combat may be certain that he will be forced to fight every inch
of the way. We frequently arouse in others the thoughts we
cherish in ourselves, even though such thoughts are not native
to them.
Physical Man Must Be the Foundation
for Success
Firmly fix in your mind the eternal truth that success depends
upon you alone and then proceed to work to bring about the
conditions which will bring success in the particular field of en­
deavor to which you are devoted, and you will assuredly win it,
only be certain that you do not sacrifice the greater for the lesser.
Cultivate enthusiasm for your chosen pursuit. If there is no
real love for the work that you are doing, you cannot hope for a
perfect mastery of it. Enthusiasm makes the driest details of
labor attractive and inspires confidence and hope. The quality of
romance or enthusiasm is a stimulus to the mind which leads one
43
The Hermetic Concept of Success
to do his best, and it should be cultivated, as it was implanted in
the mind for a wise purpose.
By far the best training for ultimate success is to be found in
experience bom of successive failures; no failure is final which
does not break the spirit and turn the desires away from the goal.
Failure in one instance should merely serve to warn in the future
how to avoid the mistakes which led to it and serve as a guide to
future success. There is no failure for him who never despairs and
is ever ready to try again with greater determination than ever
before. Not until a man knows by experience the strength of the
opposition which he must overcome is he able to muster his own
forces and lay his plans in such a way that he will win in the end.
Why be content to bow the head and meekly acknowledge that
the force of your environment is too strong for you to overcome?
Why spend day after day, year after year, in complaining of your
hard lot? The discontented man is ever an easy prey to ill health
and vicious influences. Be up and resolve to win your rightful
place in life and realize your own conception of what life should
be here and now. Cease your inertia and stop cringing like a
slave; resolve to conquer and you will become the conqueror.
The physical man must ever be the foundation upon which to
build and develop the successful man, and as his intellectual
powers develop he will have the knowledge to discriminate and
know. But not until we recognize that man has an emotional and
affectionate nature do we hold the key to the situation. Man needs
something more than food for the physical and emotion for the
intellectual nature; he has deep down in his heart a ceaseless
craving to love and be loved, and when he is working for the
things he loves, the things which the Soul alone can know, he puts
forth his best efforts. The Secret Schools base their philosophy
and training on the requirements of the threefold nature of man:
body, mind and Soul, and seek to develop all three natures har­
moniously. The spirit is always ready for its influx; the rest
must be prepared.
44
ADDENDUM
The terms embodied throughout the text of these Monographs,
such as Occult Science, Arcane Science, Alchemy, Soul Science,
Hermetic Science and Mysticism, are virtually synonymous and
are used interchangeably, referring to the same process in differ­
ent degrees or stages. Likewise is this true with such appellations
as the Hermetic School, the Arcane School, the August Fraternity
and the Rosicrucian Order, as these refer to the source of the
teachings and of which the Masters were Initiates.
The ideals which motivate such training are clearly indicated
throughout the text. For those who sincerely and earnestly seek
the true Wisdom taught through the Occult Arcanum, the Door
will open if they but knock and are insistent on their admission.
A beautiful Monograph, “The Secret School," has as its subject
the Rosicrucians and their work, and another, the “Confederation
of Initiates,” suggests the nature of the training in the Higher
Occult of the .flsth Priesthood. Either of these brochures will pro­
vide a contact for the sincere aspirant with those who will direct
him to the Path of Higher Attainment. Upon request, copies of
one or both of the Monographs will be forwarded.
The key to admittance to Hermetic Science has always been:
“I am willing and eager to begin.” Let this desire be manifest by
those who apply.
Address:
DEPARTMENT OF INSTRUCTION
Beverly H a ll
Quakertown, Penna.
