{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__bryan___the_ballard_saint_germain.pdf","mytitle":"The Ballard Saint Germain","mylang":"de"}
THE BALl^VRD
SAINT GERMAIN
Brockwre NO. 5
Copyright, January, 1938
Gerald B. Bryan, D.C.
.
'- Reprinted July- 1938
; ! v . :
'-'
;
t
I
!
•
'1-.,
FORMER PUBLICATIONS
Brochure No.
1,
"the
IAM experiences of mr. g. w.
BALLARD," shows conclusively how dates and subject mat
ter in the Ballard bopjcjitlisprQye.lhese experiences.
Brochure No.
2,
"the
I
AM teachings of mr. g. w.
BALLARD," indicates how widely the Ballard teachings are
at variance with the Christ teachings.
Brochure No.
3,
"the
I
AM doctrines of mr. g. w.
BALLARD,"
a
critical analysis of Ballardism, its "Blue
Lightning," cataclysms, entities, and taboos.
Brochure No.
4,
"THE source of the ballard WRIT
INGS^' showing that .the Ballard writings are
a
wholesale
appropmtion\.fpcttrj tHe works of other authors.
Thei price,
is
:35c .each, postage 5c. Order from your
book dealer or from:
DR. GERALD B. BRYAN
456
S.
Western Ave.,
Los Angeles, California
GIFT OF
TABLE OF- CONTENTS •
FOREWORD 5
WHO WROTE THE "I AM DISCOURSES"? ... 7
TAMPERING WITH THE "I AM DISCOURSES" . . 9
SAINT GERMAIN'S EARLY MESSAGES .... 12
MARIE CORELLI'S "LIGHT AND SOUND RAY" . . 14
WHO AND WHAT IS THE BALLARD
"LIGHT AND SOUND RAY"? 16
EARLY DAYS OF BALLARDISM ...... 22
THE ASCENDED MASTER IDEA 26
THE HISTORICAL SAINT GERMAIN 28
THE "ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR" OF
THE SAINT GERMAIN ACTIVITIES .... 30
AN ASCENDED MASTER HEADS A BUSINESS . . 36
THE SAINT GERMAIN PRIVATE LETTERS ... 38
MORE "ASCENDED MASTER" MESSAGES ... 42
BLASTING WITH THE "BLUE FLAME" IN
ANCIENT AND MODERN BABYLONIA ... 44
THE COMMERCIALISM OF AN
"ASCENDED MASTER ACTIVITY" . . . . 46
THE GREAT DECEPTION 48
DEDICATED TO THE FRIENDS
Who for the cause of Truth and Right-
eousness haw aided in the preparation
Mtd pthtk*ti*n of this
FOREWORD
In former brochures of this analytical series dealing
with the Ballard "I AM" teachings much factual evi
dence was presented proving that Mr. Ballard's recorded
experiences in his two books, "UNVEILED MYSTERIES" and
the "MAGIC PRESENCE," are not "Real and True," as he
says they are in his foreword to his first book. It was
shown that these alleged experiences actually covered a
period of three years when he only had two years in which
to live through them. An official communication from
the Cunard White Star Line was printed, testifying that
Mr. Ballard did not sail to Europe as alleged. It was
shown that many of his so-called "transcendental experi
ences" were plagiarized from books of occult fiction,
written many years before his alleged experiences with
the great "Ascended Master Saint Germain." Many
other revelations as to the unreality and untruth of these
experiences were given; also philosophical comments
showing the dangers of certain of the Ballard teachings
and practices, and their anti-Christ nature.
Since then the writer has gathered a great deal of addi
tional evidence giving further proof of the fraudulent
nature of the Ballard claims. A communication from the
Commissioner of Mines of the State of Colorado states
that he knows nothing of the marvelous mine in Colorado
mentioned in the "MAGIC PRESENCE," and that in his opin
ion it is a fake. Official inquiry reveals that the "Dia
mond K Ranch in Wyoming," or anything similar to
Mr. Ballard's description of
it,
is
non-existent; that he
and Mr. Gaylord did not stop at the Grand Palace Hotel
in Denver as alleged. Furthermore, there
is
no evidence
obtainable showing that Mr. Ballard was "on govern
ment business" at Mount Shasta as he said in his book:
5,
he was, nor of his having undertaken "travels in the Far
East" previous to his alleged Shasta experiences in 193®,
as his book asserts he had, nor of having been in India
during any part of his life. The fictitious nature of these
so-called experiences is well authenticated.
In the present work—BROCHURE NO. 5
—an inquiry-
will be made into the authenticity of an individual who
assertedly is responsible for Mr. Ballard's "transcendent
al experiences," and who has allegedly given to the world
a new system of attainment embodied in the "Saint Ger
main I AM Instruction." This individual, whom we
shall designate a« the "Ballard Saint Germain," is pre
sented in the Ballard books as the. great "Ascended Mas
ter" under whom "this beloved Sister and Brother (Mr.
and Mrs. Ballard) have gone through thirty years of
strenuous, conscious preparation." (See page 244 "I AM
DISCOURSES.") Not only this, but this individual today is
actually the guiding "spirit" of tens of thousands of the
Ballard students who pay him homage equal to, if not
even greater, than that shown Jesus the Christ.
Certainly, if we are able to prove that this individual
is but a figment of the imagination of the Ballards, or
merely one of the psychical entities whose name is legion,
it must be evident that the whole Ballard-Saint Germain
system falls on the strength of it. Take away their "Saint
Germain," prove that he is but a Ballard fake, then there
is nothing left but a lot of plagiarized material and fan
tastic imaginings, and there is no real Source or Author
ity for their teachings as claimed. It will be the purpose
of this FIFTH BROCHURE to prove that this is a fact, and
that the whole thing is a gigantic hoax, built, maintained,
and supported as a psychic fraud and a money-making
racket.
6
WHO WROTE THE "I AM DISCOURSES"?
f
The first two books of the "Saint Germain Press" were
written, it is claimed, by Godfre Ray King, pen name
for Guy W. Ballard. The third book, the "I AM
DIS
COURSES," claims another authorship. But there
is
con
siderable confusion as to who really
is
responsible for
it,
as we shall see.
]
We pick up this book and find that on the outside cover
and on the inside title page the author's name stated:
"BY THE ASCENDED MASTER SAINT GER
MAIN." On the page preceding the title page, howeverj
we find the words: "OTHER BOOKS BY THE SAME
AUTHOR," and below
it
we find listed not only the
Godfre Ray King books, "UNVEILED MYSTERIES" and the
"magic presence," but also the book of "I AM ADORA
TIONS AND AFFIRMATIONS" written by Chanera, pen name
for Mrs. Ballard! The authorship of all these books
is
therefore greatly confused. They have all been attributed
to the "same author," when there were supposed to be
three different authors. But let us investigate further.
After the title page comes the "AUTHOR'S APPRE
CIATION." IF Saint Germain
is
the author of this
book, as claimed, we would naturally expect to see his
signature or name at the bottom of the "Author's Appre
ciation," but on the contrary we see the name of Godfre
Ray King! And this
is
what he says, in part:
f
"It
is,
With sincerest gratitude, that
I
acknowl
edge the blessed assistance of LOTUS RAY
KING, whose untiring effort has enabled ME
to bring forth 'UNVEILED MYSTERIES,' 'THE T<
magic PRESENCE,' AND the
'I
AM Discourses/
V
in their present, splendid form.. . ;..»/-
All credit
is
given LOTUS for editing these
7
books . . ."*
In this same "Author's Appreciation" Godfre Ray
King thanks three members of his official family for
their gracious assistance in perfecting the manuscripts."
It is a fair question to ask why it was necessary to "edit"
and "perfect" the statements of an Ascended Master who
is incapable of making mistakes? Why should there have
been any human tampering with a "Perfected Being's"
dictation?
Then in this so-called "Ascended Master's book" we
find there is an "EDITOR'S NOTE," signed by Lotus
Ray King. This reads in part as follows:
"The words of Jesus, as quoted throughout this
I Series of books BY Godfre Ray King, are the
i authentic statements He uttered . . ."
Again is Godfre Ray. King credited with the author-
snip of not only the first two books, but also the so-called
'Saint Germain book. But Mrs. Ballard herself (as Lotus
Ray King.) comes in for a good deal of the credit too!
She is the f(Editor" of the Saint Germain book.
It is peculiar that in this book composed only of dis
courses by Perfected Beings that there should have been
any necessity of paying tribute to an "Editor." Such a
work as -these "Ascended Master Discourses" are sup
posed to be certainly should require no editorship. It
only requires a good printer. The real reason for this
acknowledgment of editorship and confusion of author
ship lies in the fact that this so-called Saint Germain
book and the two former books are under the joint author
ship of both IVtr. and Mrs. Ballard \ and both, it seems,
♦ The italics,, capitals, and bold lace type in %t quotations are bur own, unless
©thermite ttatefc
6
had to get their due credit. The evidence of this will be
more fully seen as we proceed with this analysis.
TAMPERING WITH THE "I AM DISCOURSES"
If Ascended Masters dictated the discourses in the third
book, then certainly there should be no human tamper
ing with their work. If these Perfected Beings are in
capable of making mistakes, as it is claimed for them,
then what right and authority have two earth beings to
make changes? What right have they to change sentences
around to suit their own purposes? What right have
they, for instance, to change the name of Saint Germain
to Arcturus? This they have done, and other things, as
we shall now prove.
By referring to page 357 of "THE I AM DISCOURSES"
you will see "ARCTURUS INDEPENDENCE DAY
DISCOURSE," dated July 4, 1932. This discourse was
supposed to have been dictated by the great Ascended
Master Arcturus. Yet this very discourse originally came
out in manuscript form some years ago as having been
delivered by SAINT GERMAIN! I have in my posses
sion a copy of this original discourse, and it clearly bears
Saint Germain's name as having delivered it. It was so
presented to the original Ten Day Class in Chicago back
in the summer of 1934, and it was so read to some of the
eastern classes when the Ballards first began their lecture
tour. Yet, later, it was changed to an ''ARCTURUS"
discourse for probably no better reason than the fact that
the star Arcturus at that time was getting considerable
publicity at the Century of Progress Exposition at Chi
cago, and they needed, no doubt, another "Ascended
Master" with a high sounding name to help put their
work over. Thus it became an "Arcturus Discourse," and
9
the "mighty Saint Germain" had for once to give way
to the ascendency of another—a "Star Being.".
This is not the only instance of Ballard Ascended
Masters swapping discourses. Let us relate another.
Refer to page 292 of the "I AM DISCOURSES." There you
will find a discourse by "Cha Ara"—the Ascended Mas
ter of "Attar of Roses" fame, who said he "brews his
own" perfume, and who said he would endeavor to bring
some of it to the Ballard students, but never did. Now,
"Cha Ara" was not this Ascended Master's original
name. You who have read the Spalding books know him
by another. This discourse was originally dictated by
"Emil," one of the characters mentioned many times in
Baird T. Spalding's books: "LIFE AND TEACHINGS OF THE
masters OF the FAR EAST," and whom Mr. Spaldingcalls
his Master. Mr. arid Mrs. Ballard in the early days of
their "message-receiving" were very much interested in
the Spalding books. What more natural, then, for them
to think that they had contacted Spalding's wonderful
Master? I have a copy of the original communication
from this "Master," which was read by Mrs. Ballard at
their original ten day class in Chicago, and the name
distinctly reads "Emil" and not "Cha Ara." Further
more, in this original discourse the following appears:
"As most of you have read the books— 'LIFE
AND TEACHINGS OF THE MASTERS
OF THE FAR EAST,'—you know where I
said: 'You see Imperfection where we see Per
fection.'
"
This sentence has been totally left out of the printed
version of the Cha Ara discourse. The reason for doing
this is very evident. It would have revealed that this
so-called "Ascended Master" was but one of Spalding's
10
"Unascended" Masters, and that wouldn't do for a hun
dred per cent "Ascended Master Teaching." The Bal-
lards didn't think about this in the early days, but later
as the movement developed under a so-called "Ascended
Master" direction, they had to relegate Mr. Spalding's
"Emil" to the background and bring forward their own
"Cha Ara." We have not been informed whether this
swapping met with the approval of Emil or not.
Now, read the following from this same original dis
course, which again shows their indebtedness to the Spald
ing books. Emil speaks:
"In closing, My Mother, the Hostess, Jast,
Neprow, and others of 'whom you do not know
but who know you, send greetings . . ."
These are well-known characters in the Spalding books,
but it wouldn't do to have these Masters who are as-
sertedly still living on the earth plane have anything to
do with the exalted Ballard "Ascended Masters," so their
names were conveniently left out of the "I AM DIS
COURSES." In the place of "others of whom you do not
know," the words: "others of the Ascended Host," were
inserted. (See page 297.) The Ballards thought this
would effectually conceal that this message came from a
lower earth-plane Master, or from an ordinary medium-
istic source; but you know deception, as well as murder,
will some day out.
We have space only for one more instance of tampering
with "Ascended Master" discourses, and this has to do
with Saint Germain's reference to Father Divine of New
York City. The following quotation is taken from the
original Saint Germain Discourse of November 21, 1932:
"Most of you have heard of and some of you
II
have seen the power of the 'I AM Presence'
acting through ONE OF THE 'BROTHERS'
in New York. That power of precipitation,
healing, etc., can only come through the un
divided attention being held constantly on the
great 'I AM Presence'."
The Ballards told from the platform that by the
"Brother" in this discourse was meant Father Divine!
And Mrs. Ballard during the New York Class in Octo
ber, 1934 made the following statement:
"Father Divine is a very great soul; his mani
festations are real, but if people go to hear him
because of curiosity, they will find there just
what they take in their consciousness."
Later, for reasons best known to themselves (and
imagined by others), both Saint Germain and the Bal
lards evidently had a change of mind concerning this
"power of precipitation" that was acting through "one
of the Brothers," so this entire reference was deleted
from the original discourse and was not printed in the
book version. Just another sample and example of Saint
Germain's amazing occult knowledge and the Ballard
method of covering up "his" mistakes as well as their
own.
SAINT GERMAIN'S EARLY MESSAGES
In Mr. Ballard's "unveiled mysteries" he says he
first contacted Saint Germain on the side of Mount Shasta
in August of 1930, and that this experience was the be
ginning of his understanding of the "Mighty Presence
Within" and the use of the "Light Rays."
But do you know that his wife, Edna W. Ballard, was
receiving "I AM" messages from Saint Germain before
12
1930' I have before me a typical Saint Germain dis
course entitled : .
*
"Private Instruction of the Light"
By Saint Germain
To EWB in November, 1929
This discourse describes the "Dazzling White Light,"
the "Electronic Structure of the Atom," the "Mighty I
AM Presence," and other Saint Germain conceptions—
and was not so private, as it was even read at their public
classes.
Strange, is it not, that the feminine side of the Ballard
household should be getting Saint Germain messages ht-
fprt Mr. Pallard did? Strange also that no "Light and.
Sound Ray" was necessary to get it. This famous "Ray"
did not come to them, they say, untiJ 1932.
The "Light and Sound Ray" is therefore not necessary
in this work of receiving messages ; for if it came to them
for the first time in 1932 at their home in Chicago, then
it was not present in 1929 when EWB received the mes
sage. And yet this message is a perfectly good Saint
Germain message; in fact, better than many of them.
But there is a further background to all of this, an
additional set of "Saint Germain Messages" that ante
dates those received in 1929 and 1932, as we shall now see.
Persons who have known Mr. Ballard for as long as
thirty years have stated that he has been—or has tried
to be—a medium most of his life. AI90 that he W4&
giving messages to others, purporting to come from Saint
Germain, long before his alleged experiences with this
Ascended Master in 193ft on Mount Shasta, IBut in those
days these messages were not from "Ascended M«tf*u"
< They were merely the ordinary kind of messages,
40 any medium might receive. The "Amended Master
13
idea" had ilot then been conceived. Also these messages
did not come over the wonderful "Light and Sound Ray."
That, too, was a later invention,' brought about by cir
cumstances and opportunities which we shall now reveal.
MARIE CORELLI'S "LIGHT AND SOUND RAY"
i ^Judging from the statements that others have made,
who have known Mr. and Mrs.. Ballard in Chicago, it is
very evident that both have had a predilection for occult
fiction. Mrs. Ballard worked at a metaphysical book
store in Chicago, which permitted her to browse around
in the strange stories of the occult. I have it on good
testimony that she would copy sentences and paragraphs
from these books, and would take books home with her.
Together, she and Mr. Ballard Would do what they
called "research work." It is quite probable that included
in this heterogeneous array of psychical reading material
was a book called "THE SECRET POWER," written by that
"rriost popular of occult fiction authors -^-Marie-Corelli.
This book was copyrighted in 1921 by Doubleday, Page
& Company, but is now, I understand; out of print, and
-hard to secure. Read the following from this book- and
Judge for yourself whether the "Light and Sound Ray!'
-was' given to the world in 1932 by the great "Saint Ger
main" or whether it was plagiarized at that time, by two
Chicago people from the iiterary work of this well-
-
known author, Marie Corelli: ^ . ■
-
Morgana, the heroine of 'this book, is in the cabin of
"iver airship over the Sahara Desert in the quest of the
Yhythical <rGolden City," which tradition stated was built
in the- ethers over the Sahara. Then suddenly her airship
'is
:
held "stationary -against a wall of etherie force, and a
*
ws^ffTluteitiafl'ceu lights the interior ofrthe^abitL A voiee
14
sounds in her ears:
"I am speaking on the SOUND RAY."
(Page 225, "THE SECRET POWER.")
Morgana holds her breath in mute wonder. She learns
that her airship cannot enter the Etheric Golden City.
"Our city is guarded and fortified . . . We
arc surrounded by a BELT OF ETHERIC
FORCE through which nothing can pass."
(Page 225.)
"She asks many questions about' this marvelous Etheric
City, and with characteristic feminine intuition ami
curiosity says r" " ' -
"You can taik to me on the SOUND RAY . . .
You should equally be able to project your own
portrait— a true similitude or yourself-*— on a
LIGHT RAY." (Page 229.) .-: '
-
There is a pause, and then
!".
.
,,". . . The cabin was filled with
a
pearly lustre
.
.
,
.
and in the' center of this as in an aureole
.
"
stood
a
nobly proportioned FIGURE, clad in
:
gbM-coloiifed garments" fashidhed after the early
-:- -«v Greek models." (Page 229.)
' - --:
Is
it
n^t evident that Marie Corelli's novel — judging
from the above arid other known factors in the case-
started the idea of the "Light and Sound Ray" in the
Ballard household? Did'
it
nor also" give them the idea
of the "Golden Ethefic Cfty,*1, which has been the sub-
fact of ntany
a
-Saint- Germaia discourse? Did
it
not
•^Hnilariy provide the- Ballards with the idea of
a
"gold-
clad figure"- projecting himself along -a Light Ray — the
fliighty Saint Geftnain himself?- a.-.-
"
Tis V'furifHer cvldeiibe of plagiarism, please note that
Morgana at the close of this book withdraws into tkt
*
Golden Ethtric City," and it is said :
"Morgana lives — and can make her voice heard
when she will along the 'Sound Ray' . . . For
there is no distance that is not bridged by light
..." (Pages 341-42.)
Likewise, Mr. Ballard states in "unveiled mysteries"
that he too withdraws into the Golden Etheric City. Ac
cording to this account all three of the Ballards and the
ever-present Saint Germain take a little sojourn there
seventy thousand years ago.
"On the seventh day, the Brother from out the
Silence returned and enfolding the KING and
Ballards) within his own bjgzing aura, wUh-
his CHILDREN (&»i'«< Germmu and the thr«
drew into the GOLDEN ETHERIC CITY
OF LIGHT." (Page 61, "UNVEILED MYSTER-
IES.")
But unlike the heroine of the Corelli novel, all three
of the Ballards are back here on earth to tell the tale.
In this way, no doubt, was the "Light and Sound Ray"
idea of the Ballards conceived. It was fed on imagina
tion, energized by psychic phenomena, and in time a
lusty, tangible "Ray" was thought into being. It not^nly
fooled others, but perhaps even themselves,
WHO AND WHAT IS THE BALLARD "LJOflT
AND SOUND RAY"? .
: The claim is made in the "I AM biscqursss" (page
5rv) that the "Voice" that spoke over the Light a«4 Sowd
Ray in the Ballajd home in Chicago in 1932 was VPHX-
SICALLY audible to ewrymne in tJu . ra*m" #ttf 4fee
(«aly people who were ever permitted to -fif»»r. fhjs -^ipice
were the Ballards themselves!
Now, if this voice, as claimed, was physically audible,
then it would not only require physical ears to hear
it,
but some sort of
a
physical mechanism to produce it.*
Vocal cords are the established procedure of producing
voice. But whose vocal cords were used? The logical
inference
is
that they were the vocal cords of one of the
only three physical persons in the room. Which one?
Mrs. Ballard doubtless, as claimed, took the message
down on paper, and can therefore perhaps be eliminated.
Donald, being psychically inclined, would of course be
a
possibility, but many things point to the probability that
Mr. Ballard's own vocal cords were the ones that were
used.
If so, then he either used his own vocal cords, or some
outside entity used them. If the former, he would be
speaking as he does on the public platform. If the latter,,
he would speak, as
it
is
said,- "under control," as
a
trance
medium might.
The whole mystery of the Light and Sound Ray seems
to be merely this: Mr. Ballard saw or thought he saw a
Ray of Light. Perhaps he did hear or imagine that he
heard
a
voice. There have been numerous instances of
this, historic and otherwise, and there
is
nothing remark
able about it. Only this voice would be psychically and?
NOT physically heard. Mr. Ballard no doubt repeated
audibly what he heard or thought he heard, and the
"Voice" could then really have been "physically audible-
to everyone in the room," as claimed.
It
would, however,,
in this case be merely Mr. Ballard's vocal cords vibrating
* In scientific spiritualistic experiments there seem to be well-attested cases of,
puUermlited mechanisms which produce physical sounds.
17
and not those of Saint Germain, nor of any mysterious
voice coming along a Light Ray.
Mr. Ballard stated on the platform that Mrs. Ballard
took these "messages" down in longhand, not being able
lo write shorthand, and that "Saint Germain" spoke
quite rapidly. It would, of course, be impossible for her
to get these messages down verbatim. Therefore, when
later. she wrote them out on the typewriter, she: doubtless
filled in the gaps and broken thoughts with her own
ideas and phraseology. Mr, Ballard either accepted the
whole message as his very own or as Saint Germain's; or
.else he. felt. that Mrs. Ballard deserved a lot of credit
for "editing" or fixing them, up, which he acknowledged
in his "Author's Appreciation" printed in the Saint
.permain. "I AM .discourses." .. , ...
.
« This, entire "Light and Sound Kay Episode" is acted
.out at ea;ch of the Ballard PUBLIC, classes, in broad day-
, light ,or. under electric light. .Mr. .Ballard, comes out
and says :
"Now, Dear Hearts, I shall give you the mes
sage that Saint Germain flashes to me irt letters
of Living Light."'
' ;
He closes his eyes," and the great "Ascended Master"
'
messagfc'is delivered by means of Mr. Ballard's own vocal
"cords! So far, he has delivered "messages" from seven-
'
teen different "Ascended Masters." Note the astounding
'
fact that all but two of these great Beings have used
Mr. Ballard's own pet expression of "Dear Hearts"!
'Saint Germain uses
it,
likewise Jesus and the Great
Divine Director. Even the Lady Master Nada. We
might expect that the Tall Master from Venus would
break. forth into some original expression, but not so!
Likewise the Old Man of the Hills and the Great God
18
of the Mountain. All these and most of the others use a
goodly sprinkling of "Dear Hearts" throughout their
discourses, as well as other Ballardisms. The Great
Divine Director (See page 4, April, 1937 "VOICE") says:
"We no longer HEAR TELL of such a thing as imper
fection." The Lady Ascended Master Nada (See page
307 "ascended master discourses") repeats: "You
never in nil your life HEARD TELL of such happiness
as Pearl, Rex, Bob, and I are having." Mr. Ballard may
think that he sees "letters of Living Light," and he may
imagine that he sees Saint Germain or some other great
Master at the projecting end of a beam of light, but to
the audience (unless it is in a bad state of mass hypnotism)]
it is merely Mr. Guy W. Ballard himself!
It is noteworthy that.in the so-called discourses received
in their dining room in 1932 and published in the book
of "I AM DISCOURSES/' that this expression of "Dear
Hearts" does not once occur. But when Mr. Ballard
started to use this expression on the platform in 1935,
then all these other "Ascended Masters" started in to use
it also!
There are other differences between the discourses de
livered in 1932 and in the latter day discourses delivered
on the public platform. The former are superior to the
latter, which are mostly harangues about "vicious indi
viduals" criticising him and his work. May not the fol
lowing probablities account for this difference?
In the Ballard household the psychic atmosphere was
prepared. The Light and Sound Ray Episode occurred,
as they say, in the dining room. Why the dining room?
For the reason that there is a table there, and it is quite
probable that they were sitting around
it,
as mediums do,
19
with the idea of getting a message. They probably had
done this many times before, for messages had been re
ceived previous to this episode. But this time it was.
different. Mr. Ballard had been away for a couple of
years, and had made as he claimed certain contacts
with Saint Germain. Don, too, had developed in that
period of time, and Mrs. Ballard had been doing much
reading of occult literature. And so three mediumistical-
ly-inclined people sitting together at the dining room
table brought through something. Mr. Ballard spoke
mediumistically as he never had before ; or perhaps even
Don contributed to the messages, in a somewhat similar
way as he delivers his "Saint Germain Invocation for
America" on the public platform. The presence of all
three persons sitting together was seemingly necessary in
order to make real contacts with "Saint Germain,"
"Emil" (Cha Ara), and the other "Ascended Masters.""
Is this not why they have held on to Don in their work,,
and is this not why they are constantly repeating the
statement: "By the Power of the Three Times Three"T
The above will no doubt account for some of the dif
ferences between the 1932 messages and the latter day
platform messages. But in addition, the evidence points
to the fact that Mrs. Ballard had a great deal to do with
the writing of these earlier messages. Much of the
dynamic intensity and part of the phraseology (she does
not use the "Dear Hearts" expression) is doubtless due
to her. She not only recorded these messages, as claimed,
but she "edited" them. And she no doubt edited them
very freely, which is another name for re-writing.
The messages that Mr. Ballard delivers on the plat
form lack, therefore, not only the elements of this "closed
group mediumship," but also the benefits of Mrs. Bal
20
lard's "editorship." In the uncertainty and confusion of
public appearance on the platform the "living letters of
Light" do not always flash before his eyes, and so he has
to manufacture words and phrases as he goes along. Pro
fessional mediums have this same difficulty in getting
"contact" with the other side, and so they have to at times
"fake a message" as it wouldn't do to tell a good-paying
customer that nothing was coming through. These "As
cended Master messages" give Mr. Ballard opportunity
for venting his feelings against "vicious individuals" criti
cising his work, for he himself takes no blame for this con
demnation of individuals and movements, despite the fact
that his own vocal cords utter these scathing condemna
tions. Poor Saint Germain is blamed for it all, and is
made to say: "The Messengers have never condemned any
activity and never shall"! ("ASCENDED MASTER DIS
COURSES," page 55.)
It is seen, therefore, that their wonderful "Light and
Sound Ray" is not at all necessary for these platform
messages; nor for the dining room messages, edited by
the "brains" and more widely read member of the family.
It was a good sales point, however, and it fooled their
audiences into believing that these messages were not the
ordinary mediumistic kind. Their "Light Ray" is mere
ly psychism, and their "Sound Ray" is merely Mr. Bal
lard's voice. Mr. Ballard himself almost let this secret
out when he stated the following to his Los Angeles audi
ence in 1935.
"Through this visible Light Ray, Saint Ger- i
main's voice spoke as audibly and as strongly
as MINE does now."
Naturally it was just as strong and audible as Mr. Bal
lard's voice. // couldn't have been otherwise! Also his
21
"Great Divine Director" almost gives his secret away in
his discourse recorded in the July, 1937 "VOICE".
"Do not let appearances scare you out .... Sin
ister destructive things .... will turn tail and
run in a hurry! Believe it or not! .... Our un
fortunate critics say to you: 'Well, does that
sound like the language of an Ascended Being?
Well, you HEAR me dictating to you!'
"
In other words, all that is necessary is Mr. Ballard's
vibrating vocal cords!
The only real mystery about this Light and Sound Ray
business is how seemingly intelligent and sane people
can accept it. The only conclusion that sensible people
can arrive at is that GODFRE "RAY" KING himself is
the "Light and Sound Ray" — aided and abetted by the
two other members of the "RAY KING" family.
EARLY DAYS OF BALLARDISM
We come now to a bit of Ballard psychology, plus
human credulity, which will explain how they were able,
despite the falsity of their claims, to put their work over.
Throughout many years they had taken courses from
occult and metaphysical teachers. They had read a lot
of occult fiction. They had browsed around in spiritualism
and the various New Thought cults. But none of these
things had brought surcease from the poverty which pur
sued them. The money simply wouldn't come out of the
Cosmos as some of these cults promised it would, but it
might come through the sale of books purchased by hu
man beings! So they started out to capitalize on their
stock of heterogeneous metaphysical information.
They began to do "research work" at their home in
22
Chicago, compiling papers, lessons, and perhaps getting
a few psychic messages. But this joint work was inter
fered with by Mr. Ballard suddenly leaving Chicago
owing to a few gold mine deals which didn't work out.
He was away for about two years, living part of that time
in Los Angeles under the name of Dick Gilbert. The'
research work, however, continued. He attended classes
in metaphysics and visited the public library. Also he
was getting "messages" from Saint Germain even in that
early day. Mrs. Ballard continued with her research
work in Chicago. The Saint Germain 1929 "message"
came to her by her own psychism or was given to her by
Mr. Ballard, which we have already mentioned.
The gold mine affair in Chicago, which had resulted in.
a Grand Jury indictment against Mr. Ballard, charging
confidence game, sort of died down. He returned very
quietly to Chicago, and the joint "research work" started
again. But the old poverty was still with them. Some
thing had to be done about it.
It was at this time, no doubt, that the so-called "Light
and Sound Ray" manifestation occurred. This combined
with the "Ascended Master" idea, together with their
reading of such books as Baird T. Spalding's "SUN-
SERIES", gave them the idea and the enthusiasm to put
their work over. Their publications, however, would be
the "SAINT GERMAIN SERIES". They would utilize the
marvelous experiences contained in occult novels and
write them up as absolutely "Real and True," as actual
"transcendental experiences" that came to one "Gddfre
Ray King." Spalding had written of his personal. experiU
ences with the Masters of the Far East, and At* books
had sold, whereas the usual run of deeply occult treatises
lay upon dusty shelves. They would put the spark of life
23
in occultism by making it real and true. They would
create a living hero — not a mere fiction one.
They couldn't, of course, make their work too much
like Spalding's. They couldn't even utilize the Spalding
(masters, although they had been getting messages from
tthem. And so, as we have shown by their own discourses,
Spalding's master "Emil" was changed to the Ballard
great Ascended Master "Cha Ara." Although the Bal
lard "Ascended Masters" were "magnificent God-like
Beings," they would make them more tangible and acces
sible than the less magnificent, un-Ascended Masters.
Also they would make gold, jewels, mines, and other
material things eminently desirable and easily obtainable.
They would really make practical use of the old "I AM"
idea. So it was re-christened "The Mighty I AM Pres
ence," placed arbitrarily a certain number of feet above
one's head, and made subject to the decrees and demands
-of the human personality.
While all this research work and message receiving was
going on, the Ballards had been conducting small classes
to a closed group. To these students they read manu
scripts of the "Saint Germain Discourses," but exacted
promises from them that they would not reveal this "As
cended Master Teaching" to anybody — not even to
members of their own families. It was very, very secret.
They exercised a good deal of caution as to who came
to the classes because of Mr. Ballard's gold mine activi
ties. They did not want the Grand Jury charges to come
to life. However, it was no doubt this very caution that
helped to put them over, for people thought these teach
ings must be very wonderful because of their great se
crecy and the fact that all were not permitted to attend
the classes. When some of these people a few months
24
later saw these same very, very secret "discourses" in book
form, and freely given to anybody who had the price,
they had their first taste perhaps of the deceit of the Bal
lard system.
Their first publication in the "Saint Germain Series"
of books was "UNVEILED MYSTERIES/' copyrighted 1934.
As expected, owing to its "true story" nature, it caught
a certain amount of attention at once. But there was no
outstanding volume of sales. They needed a wider out
let, perhaps a lecture tour, which would put their book
over. But here they were up against difficulties. The
book had been written by "Godf re Ray King." They had
planned not to have Mr. Ballard known in it. To go out
on the lecture platform would reveal the real author of
these books. Some of the metaphysical students would
know that Mr. Ballard had never gone to India as the
book claimed for Godfre Ray King. Besides, there were
people to whom he had sold mining stock, and these per
haps would want an accounting. Already they had had
the humiliation of people getting up at their "secret"
meetings in Chicago, saying something like this: "All
this is very wonderful, but if your Ascended Masters
can do so much for you, why don't they help you to return
the money people have invested in your fake gold
mine?" Such people were promptly and unceremoniously
ejected from the meeting.
Around this time they contacted a man who was sin
cerely interested in their work, and who had a wide ac
quaintance through the eastern states. This was an oppor
tunity for their lecture work, which they decided to em
brace, despite certain difficulties that might arise regard
ing the contents of "UNVEILED MYSTERIES" and Mr. Bal
lard's earlier activities in selling gold mine stock in Chi
25
cago. It is noteworthy in this regard that the Ballards do-
not hold open classes in Chicago, their own home town,
as they do in practically all the other large cities. They
were advertised in the east at first as "Mr. and Mrs.
Godfre Ray King," but later as the lectures progressed
and the money began to come in, they began to operate
under their real names. The only change being that Mr.
Ballard's given name, "Guy," was changed to "George."
The great Saint Germain had told him that he was the
reincarnation of George Washington! This, however,
was a whispered secret to members of their intimate
"I AM" family. To their later audiences they were
openly presented as "the wonderful people who today
are occupying the place that Jesus the Christ occupied
two thousand years ago!"
THE ASCENDED MASTER IDEA
Saint Germain was the great "Ascended Master1' who
put the Ballards over. By use of this word "Ascended''
all the other Masters — Theosophical, Rosicruciah, and
Hindu -— were placed in a subordinate position, and the
Ballard Masters, Saint Germain, the Great Divine Di
rector, the Lady Master Nada, and a score of others were
simply in a class by themselves, absolutely "Perfect Be
ings," possessing God-like powers.
The magic name of "Saint Germain" came to have a
real influence over tens of thousands of students. Saint
Germain said this and Saint Germain said that, and that
was all the authority the Ballards needed to get their
students to obey. If a meeting was to be held, even of
the most trivial importance, the great Saint Germain
called it. If a student was to be dismissed, it was Saint
Germain who did it. If a student was to have honors and
flattery heaped upon him because of servitude to the Bal-
lards, it was Saint Germain who "in his humble way"
bestowed the necessary platitudes.
Saint Germain became the imaginary Genie of the
Ballards, more wonderful — and certainly more human
— than Aladdin's lamp. They discovered that it was
only necessary to say "Saint Germain wishes this," or
"Saint Germain wishes that," and it was done. They said
all this showed the power of their work; but what they
didn't mention, and what their poor credulous students
didn't see, was that all these things were done by the
students themselves. It was not accomplished in a magical
sense at all. Human beings did it — the Ballard students
— with their hands, their pocketbooks, and their talents.
They worked hard to serve this great Being, whom they
had never seen, and some students gave their very all.
They were sold into bondage. They were required to do
foolish things. They burned their books and their black
clothes, they gave up the eating of onions and garlic,
along with a score of other things. They arrayed them
selves in white clothes and decreed from morning till
night in order to come into the "Ascended Masters' Way
of Living." Whatever the Ballards wanted their students
to do or not to do — no matter how foolish — was ac
complished by the magic name of Saint Germain. He
became at once the "open sesame" to every good thing
— for the Ballards.
Now the favor of such an exalted personage was jeal
ously guarded by the Ballards. No one else without the
sanction of the "Messengers" could contact him. Mr.
Ballard on the evening of December 26, 1936, at the
Shrine Class in Los Angeles, was quite disturbed over
some of the students who had reported that they had
27
contacted Saint Germain. "Why, don't you believe any
of this silly nonsense," said Mr. Ballard, "Saint Germain
told me when I first contacted him that if he ever com
municated with anyone else in the world, he would tell
me first!"
Throughout the Ballard books, and platform utter
ances, the students are promised that some day they would
see Saint Germain in the tangible body. And when they
do — or imagine they do — they are promptly told that
Saint Germain and all the other "Ascended Masters" only
come to Mr. and Mrs. Ballard and their son Don. Some
of the students have even been discharged by Saint Ger
main himself for confessing such a heretical thing.
Clearly the ownership of Saint Germain is vested in
the Ballards and no one else. They copyright his state
ments, and try with all their power to hold on to his per
sonality. But it seems that he does elude them occasion
ally. Not only do their own students say he contacts them,
but it seems that rival organizations are being visited by
him also. I know at least four different non- Ballard or
ganizations that claim the great Saint Germain comes to
see them!
I wonder what the real Comte de St. Germain thinks
of all this. What a price to pay for greatness! having
your name misused and your personality distorted into
something that was not, is not, and never can be.
THE HISTORICAL SAINT GERMAIN
There are voluminous works dealing with this enig
matical character of the eighteenth century, to which the
reader must be referred. Suffice it to say here that Le
Comte de St Germain was a real historical character
28
who lived and labored on earth as do other human beings,
and was not at all the mythical, impossible personage the
Ballards depict him to be. He unquestionably had cer
tain developed powers, so much so that history records
him as a necromancer, but he was and is not the psychic
"Jumping Jack" that hops around obeying every whim
and caprice of the Ballard family.
The real Saint Germain appeared at the courts and
congresses of nations. He influenced the destiny of kings.
His advice and counsel were sought by the high poten
tates of Europe. He left certain tangible records of his
earth existence, in the form of portraits, letters, manu
scripts, and correspondence, although modern historians
do not always agree upon their authenticity. His person
ality and abilities have been well attested by his contem
poraries who valued him as a friend and adviser, such as
Louis XV of France, Prince Karl of Hesse, Frederick the
Great, Lord Clive of India; and authors such as Dumas,
Sue, and Balzac seemed to have personally known him.
Against these historical facts, we have in the Ballard
Saint Germain, an unreal, fictionalized person — a
psychic being who bears no record of his existence. He
does not appear at the courts and congresses of modern
nations. Despite his professed love for America, the
President of the United States does not know him, nor
is there a single Congressman who has claimed to have
dealings with him. There is no handwriting extant.
There is no manuscript, nor book, nor anything tangible
and real that the Ballard Saint Germain has ever left.
His "precipitations" are a myth, and his "comings and
goings" are in keeping with the changing necessities of
the lives of his creators.
He is not the strong, masterful personality that iirflu
29
enced the destiny of nations, but is an unreal, intangible
entity, or imaginary being, who is eternally making prom
ises to the members of his "beloved family," but always
without fulfilling one of them. His composite picture
graces the stage of the Ballard classes, alongside of a pic
ture of Jesus the Christ, and the "precious students" are
told that these two are working together in getting over
the "I AM" Message to the world. In this work he is
Owned body and soul by the Ballards. No one else in this
great Nation numbering thousands of brilliant men and
women is fitted to receive "messages" from this "Great
Being." Not even their own students — only Mr. and
Mrs. G. W. Ballard and their son Donald.
How utterly absurd! And what blasphemy to place
this hypothetical creation, this product of human minds
and astral forces, alongside of Jesus the Christ!
THE "ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR" OF THE
SAINT GERMAIN ACTIVITIES
In the early days of the Ballard work they were fortu
nate in securing the services of a man whom they made
the "Associate Director of the Saint Germain Activities."
This man had a wide acquaintance among metaphysical
students, and was a good organizer. He became sincerely
interested in the Ballard teachings, feeling that they
really had something worthwhile, and so he did not spare
himself in helping them to start out on their lecture work
in the fall of 1934. He borrowed money for them, ar
ranged their lecture tours, sold their books, and helped
them in many ways to put forth their message.
Saint Germain was naturally appreciative of this good
service, as he might well be. So every now and then he
30
would write letters to this man, making suggestions about
how to carry on the work and encouragement for him to
continue in the Saint Germain service. All these letters
were written and signed on the typewriter and given or
mailed to him by the Bollards. Even their first and fore
most "Associate Director," the man whom Saint Germain
referred, to as "My Very Remarkable Pal" did not rate a
direct contact with this Ascended Master. Below is an
excerpt from Saint Germain's letter to him of September
16, 1934:
"You would always be free to let the individ
uals know that LOVE GIFTS could be ac
cepted, but that the Messenger 's themselves may
not even suggest it. It would be perfectly right
-' for each group to understand that' they- are to
» take care oi the EXPENSE of the Messengers
Not yet being a Messenger, as these two are,
.- . it
is.
entirely within your province to offer sug-.t .
... gestions which these Messengers may not do.
'
SAINT GERMAIN." .
The hypocrisy of this letter
is
very .evident. The "Mes
sengers" could never ask for "love gifts," but their own
official "Associate Director" could. Behind' this barri
cade of "Ascended Masters" and "Associate Directors"
the Messengers could take shelter, offering hints about
getting in the money and making certain that their ex
penses would be taken care of, but without openly seem
ing to do so or caring anything about such material things.
As an additional instance of this subtlety of hiding be
hind somebody else, read the following excerpt from
a
letter written by Mr. Ballard to
a
metaphysical lecturer
who had complained that his mailing list had been used
without his authorization:
"Your greatly mistaken idea about the list of
31
names I shall endeavor to correct. We ourselves
have never asked anybody for a list of names.
Whatever — (naming their own business mana
ger) — may have done, he did on his own initia
tive and we do not in anywise feel responsible.
GWB/PBC."
Paraphrasing the words of their Saint Germain, "It is
all right for a Ballard official to use an unauthorized list
of names from another school, but the 'Messengers' may
not even suggest it!"
Now notice one of th« congratulatory messages sent
to their first "Associate Director" and his family. His
wife, by the way, was told that 9he was one of the sevea
"Angel Devas," of which only three were in incarnation.
She was therefore beyond the human stage— an Angel
Being! That is flattery filled to the brim, pressed down,
and running over. But despite the fact that she was an
"Angel Deva," they refused to let her in the room where
Saint Germain was dictating his discourses to the three
human being, who alone among all of teeming human
ity had the privilege of listening to their "Master's"
voice. Saint Germain's letter follows :
"Beloved Ones of Light: It is my joy to bring
to you this Message of Light and greeting today
that I may voice to you my deep appreciation of
your loyalty and service to the Messengers, My
self and the Work. Let that Great Light within
you and OUR BLESSED DEVA (his wife)
. . . expand until It fills your world with Its Daz
zling Light . . . My Love enfolds you always,
SAINT GERMAIN."
Now read another one of the Saint Germain typewrit
ten letters sent to this man two months before he met with
a serious accident experienced while in the service of the
32
Ballards:
"BELOVED STUDENTS AND M¥ AS
SISTANT DIRECTOR: It is with great jay
that I convey to you in words my deep appre
ciation of your loyal sincere service, the bless
ings and benefits of which SHALL GROW .. )
DAILY . . . One day you shall know that this is
one of the Greatest Thanksgivings you have ever
known, for I shall stand in your home when yon
are at your dinner, dispel and consume all
psychic forces about your home . . . Consciously
accept this in its fulness and you will find great
er happiness and HEALTH than you have
known for some years . . . May the joy of your
service ever increase, My Very Remarkable Pal
and Blessed Family. SAINT GERMAIN."
About two months later, this man who had been prom
ised such "happiness and health,'* which would "gran/
daily," and who was Saint Germain's own "Remarkable
Pal," was hit by an automobile and found in nearly a
dying condition on the roadway 1 Please note that this ter
rible accident occurred while he was in the service of Jthe
Ballards and their Saint Germain. He was returning fron»
their Washington class, and had just gotten out of the
Ballard car in Baltimore to ask directions when he was
hit. He was taken to the Johns Hopkins Hospital, an'dl
Mr. Ballard dispatched a wire for help to a mental heal
er somewhere in North Carolina, evidently not having'
any faith in his own Saint Germain. This Ascende^
Master gentleman, by the way, was peculiarly silent about
the whole affair. His flattering letters to hts own "As
sistant Director" and "Very Remarkable Pal" suddenfjr
ceased; and for months, as this former valued workeir
lay maimed and crippled, no news came frcm this "Asr
cended Master." . :
*
The Ballards continued on their lecture tour, no doubt
33
Sincerely and deeply shocked at the whole affair, but pow
erless to bring their Assistant Director back to a speedy
recovEry'j.'nor could they explain why it was that such an
accident, -had occurred in .the service of the Ascended
Masters, - Nor could they later explain why it was that
shortly afterwards, while in Florida, they too had an
automobile accident. I quote from one of Mr. Ballard's
letters:
"Our car turned over and my ribs were fractured
and Lam just now catching up my correspondence."
In'Aprll'bf 1935 the Ballards arrived in Los Angeles,
having been fortunate enough to secure the services of
another man, of ability who had a wide acquaintance
among metaphysical, students. They went over big in
this "City. of the Angels," where so many metaphysical
C'ults'h^ve.', flourished. All' along they had thought that
their Assistant Director would join. them on the Pacific
<C<?ast after his recovery, but the first few classes in Los
'Angeles niust have convinced them that it was not neces
sary fdr him to come. Therefore, the services of Saint
Germain were once more enlisted. This gentleman had
.pot sent a message to. his "Very Remarkable Pal" and
•^Assistant Director" since his accident, a period of nearly
four months, but now it was. really necessary to do so m
.the service of the Ballards. Their former "valued help
er" was to be laid off, and Saint Germain was enlisted
"to let him down as easy as possible. Therefore under date
fit April Z, 1935, at Los Angeles, Mr. Ballard wrote his
former 'Assistant Director — the man who above all
Others had been responsible for their success — a lette^
from which I quote in part
"I do not understand your silence. We are hear-
34
ing reports from all directions that you are tak
ing up other work. If that is your wish, we may
not interfere for you are always free. But do be _
kind enough to give us full accounting of all re«
ceived on the "Magic Presence" and "Unveiled
Mysteries." We were on the RAY last night, th<
first time since New Years. Find enclosed Saint
Germain's letter to you. . . .
G. W. BALLARD.n
This effort to find an excuse to lay a former valued
worker off is pitifully weak. The "Assistant Director**
makes this clear in a four page letter to Mr. Ballard in
answer to these accusations, from which I quote:
"Dear George : It is positively not true that I am
or have been taking up other Work. It is also un
true that I have been silent. / have answered all
your letters promptly on their receipt . . . etc.
. . . etc."
-
Mr. Ballard replied very briefly to this long letter, the
principal statement being:
"Since you say my letters have caused you so
much distress, there is only one thing for me to
do and that is to be silent, which I shall do."
That was Mr. Ballard's last letter to his former Assis
tant Director. The Saint Germain letter, previously re
ferred to, now follows:
"MY DEAR BROTHER: I congratulate you
on your recovery from so serious an accident
I want you to know if it had not been for the
presence of DON and your good Deva with you,
you would have instantly passed from the body.
-
I may not go into the cause back of this at pres
ent, as it would in nowise help. Since that time
a very vicious vortex of human suggestion has
endeavored to form about you. Do not ever lig-
35
ten to its destructive suggestion . . . etc. . . Those-
who try to harm the Messengers or the work are-
the most unfortunate of human beings . . . etc . . ..
Be very careful in the use of your limb until it
is thoroughly strong. In time it will be as strong;
as the other, if given sufficient care. I shall en
deavor to write you again ere long. My Love
and Blessings to yourself and family that you
may enjoy the full Perfection of your 'Mighty
I AM Presence.' SAINT GERMAIN."
Thus after a four months silence, the great Saint Ger
main who can speak through Mr. Ballard every day on
the platform with the greatest of ease, congratulates his
former "Very Remarkable Pal," (but now only his "Dear
Brother") on his recovery — and admits that he didn't
have anything to do with it! He puts half the honors of
his Pal's recovery on Donl when it was the surgeons at
the hospital, and his wife who cared and prayed for him,
.who brought him back to life. Also Saint Germain gives
some "very remarkable" Ascended Master advice about
his leg. Furthermore, he never wrote again as he said
he would endeavor to do. How pathetic it is to consider
that when the Ballards could no longer make use of the
man who became penniless and broken in body in their
service, that their Saint Germain — the Ballard equal of
Jesus of Nazareth — also forsook him.
AN ASCENDED MASTER HEADS A
BUSINESS
Saint Germain, among other things, is gifted with a
rare business sense. He is not only in control of the des
tiny of the United States of America, and, as the Bal
lards say, the real "father of our country" (Mr. Ballard?
is only the reincarnated George Washington) t but in ad
36
<iition to all this he is HEAD of the Saint Germain Ac
tivities of Chicago! Under date of September 27, 1934
the Ballards dispatched the following to their "Associate
Director":
"His Blessedness — SAINT GERMAIN —
has left us free to do certain things in regard to
the BUSINESS, but he is HEAD of
it,
as we .
no longer possess anything so far as our per
sonalities are concerned. THE BALLARDS."
Just how true this "no longer possessing anything" is,
is
revealed in another letter written two and
a
half months
later and signed by Mr. Ballard, wherein they become
greatly exercised over their book percentages and profits
for themselves, and the ever-ready Saint Germain
is
right
there to back them up.
"We cannot give anyone 50% and have anything
left for OURSELVES, and furthermore, we are
not going to do
it
. . . SAINT GERMAIN said
in
the beginning that 30 and 33 1/3 was the
limit to be given anyone
.
.
. Our greatest open
ing for the book sales
is
through the class work
.
. . Saint Germain said that he wanted US to
have $1.00 per copy CLEAR on all books as
HIS GIFT TO US. GEORGE."
If the Ballards no longer possess anything for them
selves, why do they demand, like Shylock, their pound
of flesh — the "Saint Germain Dollar" — on all books
sold? In this same letter Mr. Ballard goes on to reveal
some of the startling commercial possibilities of this
"Ascended Masters Work," and drops
a
hint as to who
originated it.
"/ am the channel that has made all this possi
ble, and
I
do not intend to be swallowed up by
this terrible commercial thing that has always
37
forgotten the ORIGINATOR of a thing from
which others have received MILLIONS . . . !"
However, this idea of his of "receiving millions" has
recently been denied by his latest "Ascended Master"
supporter, who, oddly enough, calls himself David Lloyd.
GEORGE W. Ballard, the reincarnated George Wash-
ton, helped this gentleman to make his "Ascension" off
the side of Mount Shasta.
"Precious Ones, do not let the silly human re
ports go forth which have been spread at times,
that they (the Ballards) are flourishing with
money. All they have is the Love Gifts of the
students to carry on the work. Not so long ago
the report went forth that they had plenty of
money. The Love Gifts from that class did not
take care of the express on their trunks, but they
never complain . . . DAVID LLOYD, As
cended Master." (Page 217, "ASCENDED master
DISCOURSES.")
But what about the "Saint Germajn Dollar" on all
books sold? And what about their daily decree suggested
by "Jesus" himself: "These books shall be the most
sought after books oft the face of the planet!"
THE SAINT GERMAIN PRIVATE LETTERS
Saint Germain has not only been exceptionally gener
ous in dictating messages to the Ballards, but also —
through the Ballards — it is his happy duty to send per
sonal letters to other members of his "happy family."
The Ballards refer to these personal letters as follows*:
"All, who have been named as Accredited Mes-
| sengers, have each received a letter from Saint
38
I Germain through us and are subject to His Di- \
rection through us." (April 1936 "Voice,''
page 26.) . .
One would think that these marvelous "Ascended Mas
ter" letters would be mysteriously precipitated before
the thrilled student, as they were said to be in "UNVEILED
mysteries." But no, it seems that they are merely tapped
out on the typewriter by Mrs. Ballard herself, and instead
of being signed in Saint Germain's "beautiful, script,"
ihey were signed on the typewriter! . .. .. .
•
These Saint Germain epistles — when not condemna*
tory — are usually effusions of flattery^ This alone should
cause these students to be suspicious of them, for flattery
is the mark of the "Great Deceiver." Here is one such
letter given to twelve students at the original ten day
class in Chicago during the late summer of 1934':
"These beloved students who have come .into
this class are ALL far advanced souls, wjth ,
whom WE have been closely associated before^
wherein very great Light has reigned. All of
this group that are here were' in association in »
the civilization of 70,000 years- ago . . .'Mr. A, *
and Mr. B were councilors in that period; Mr.
' C was Mr. A's son at that time; Mr. D was:
Mr. B's son; Mr. D's present wife was' at that
time his sister ; Mrs: E was a sister of the mother
of Mr. D; Mrs. F was then Mr. A's sister'."
These twelve students were not only related by the most
intimate blood ties in the past, but they were, 'it seems,
without a single exception, all wonderful people; not
a black sheep in the family. . .
"Mr. G was an aeronautical engineer and 4
great musician both vocal and instrumental ; the j
younger son was, a scientist and philosophe'.r of |
-39"
"
the True God ; Mr. I was chief of the staff of en
gineers and was a builder of some of the most
exquisite buildings of that time; Miss J was a
'
musician and singer of great merit with an
amazing soprano voice. Miss K was a scientist
. and astronomer in masculine form . . . Each one
! of the group was embodied
a^t
the time of Jesus,
etc., etc,"
Someu»f the members of this "happy family" have
•quit'the Ballards or have been dismissed, and are not now
nearly so wonderful. Flattery turns to quick condemna
tion in this Saint Germain family, as some of these "Bles
sed Ones** have discovered. Read the following letter that
was sent tlirough the U.
S.
Mail to
a
former valued offi
cial- —
a
man whom the Ballards stated just TWO
MONTHS BEFORE would be "forever blessed" for
his wonderful service to them, and as regards the "motive
in his heart" they and Saint Germain knew
it
to be "pure
and .true as
a
diamond." This Saint Germain letter
is
here, given just as
it
was written, with the exception that
the personal names are left out:
. Washington, D. C,
.'
.
Nov. 26, 1935
>"Be*
C
—-)
Yew are now dismissed from amy further privilege or
authority to serve the Messengers, Myself, or any other of
the Ascended Masters in this embodiment.
To willingly try to deceive earnest students seeking their
freedom in the Light
is
unpardonable. You have made
yourself
a
claw of the sinister force in coming into associa
tion with
(
).
My pity goes out to you and
{
),
for your complete freedom for both of you was at hand
when the Messengers were in Long Beach. There was so
1
tmich good tn both of you and now to allow
it
to be so dis
torted as has been done. Too late will you cry out in agony
.
for the mistake you have made.
Your earth span
is
very short. Make your peace with
40
your God and call on the Law of Forgiveness while there
is yet time, less you deprive yourself of opportunity in the
next embodiment. Do not try to bluff such deception
through any longer, less you do this thing again in the next
two embodiments.
When you willingly put yourself under the Red Light,
you cut off the White Light.
My Love and hope goes out to you, that you may yet
face about and calling on the Law of Forgiveness, call suffi
cient assistance to cut you free of this sinister claw.
I AM making this one last attempt to help you. Choose.
The All-seeing Eye of God is upon you.
SAINT GERMAIN"
Now what was the terrible crime that this former val
ued worker committed to deserve such a letter? He had
discovered that a certain metaphysical teacher had been
conducting classes in the "I AM" philosophy prior to the
advent of the Ballards; that this teacher had a chart very
similar to the "Chart of the Presence," and that this chart
was sketched in 1922 — long before the Ballard chart.
This caused him to question the priority of some of the
Ballard teachings, and opened his mind to other discrep
ancies and certain of their business methods.
A rival organization could not and would not be tol
erated by Saint Germain, so this letter was dispatched
post haste from their hotel in Washington, D. C. In
scribed on the upper left hand corner of the envelope
was: "FROM THE BALLARDS, Hamilton Hotel,
Washington, D. C." It was sent registered, airmail,
special delivery — return receipt demanded — and mark
ed "Important." The letter itself was written on the type
writer, and signed "SAINT GERMAIN" — on the
typewriter!
Further comment i3 hardly necessary. Its utter lack of
41
Christian spirit and its implied threat —- "Your earth
span is very short" and "Too late will you cry out in
agony" — indicates the type of mind that composed such
a letter. The recipient of this infamou* document —
after two years — is still very much alive, showing that
not only do the Saint Germain promises and predictions
fall short of fulfillment, but his threats also do not work.
That a Master of Wisdom could have composed such a
letter is unthinkable.
MORE "ASCENDED MASTER" MESSAGES
The following is the type of "sales promotion letters"
that Saint Germain, the "business head" of the Ballard
interests, would occasionally get out to those who were
working for him. .. ......
"To recommend and call to the attention of your
friends and students UNVEILED MYSTERIES, THE
MAGIC PRESENCE, and THE I AM DISCOURSES and
the BOOK OF AFFIRMATIONS when it is ready will-
be the greatest service you can ever render to any
human being and can only bring you happiness
and good in return.
It is indeed a great service you are rendering.
The Light within you is expanding rapidly and
' -
you are drawing closer within your Mighty
Presence in your recognition and adoration ...
. I. trust, ere long,, we shall meet face to face. My
Love enfolds you ALWAYS,
SAINT GERMAIN"
The recipient of the above, despite Saint Germain's
"always enfolding Love" was fired from his organiza
tion less than a year after. The following is an excerpt
from a Saint Germian letter written to another valued
worker: . . . . ; . .
42
"My Blessed Beloved Brother and Friend: It
is with great joy that I congratulate you on
your splendid cooperation in spreading the
'Light' ...
I do think it is important for you to change the
location of your home as soon as convenient
where you can have a place free from vermin
and where you can maintain an even heat . . .
SAINT GERMAIN."
I believe this is an outstanding record of all time where
in a Master of Wisdom ( ?) has advised his pupil how to
get rid of vermin! Could Saint Germain have forgotten
to tell him about the "Violet Consuming Flame?" Why
not use that on them instead of confessing defeat, and hav
ing his pupil move out? And if that wouldn't do
it,
why
not "BLAST" them with the "Blue Lightning?"
Saint Germain, unlike others of the truly Great Teach
ers, doesn't mind at air his "picture" being sold and pa
raded before the multitude, as the following will show:
"I think
it
best for my picture to be sold at the
class through the Saint Germain Press, and the
Sindelars. It can only bring good and blessing
and cannot bring anything but good to me. It
is
quite all right with me ...
I
think
it
quite right
to confine its sale to these channels.
SAINT GERMAIN."
Why confine this "blessing" to two channels? Why not
give others the blessing of selling this "exact likeness" of
the Great Saint Germain? One of their former associates
concisely gives me the answer: "More money — no dis
counts!"
This "Ascended Master," who could pick gold coins
out of the air by simply desiring to do so, nevertheless in
the early days was concerned about having
a
plac.e for the
43
"Messengers" to stay when they came to town, as the fol
lowing will show:
"If you can have a place where you have an
extra room for the Messengers whenever they
are in reach of your home, I think it will be quite
sufficient for the present . . . My Love enfolds
you always. SAINT GERMAIN."
Today, however, in spite of their professed lack of
"Love Gifts" to take care of the expressage on their
trunks, the Ballards and their official family put up in
-elaborate suites at the most expensive hotels.
BLASTING WITH THE "BLUE FLAME" IN
ANCIENT AND MODERN BABYLONIA
Saint Germain is discouragingly imitative. He cannot
seem to originate anything really new. His "Light and
Sound Ray" is old. His "I AM" teaching dates back to
Moses, and before. His "Cleansing Violet Flame" has
been part of many thrilling occult stories long before he
;sat down on the mountainside with Mr. Ballard and told
him how to burn up the Karma of a hundred lives.
And we have discovered that his destructive "Blue
Ray" — the powerful "Blue Lightning" — is old, very
old. The ancient Babylonian priests used it six thousand
years ago, just as the Ballardites use it today, to destroy
the entities that surrounded them and to "BLAST" those
who opposed them. The following is a translation from
cuneiform writing on ancient Babylonian clay tablets-
copied from a book in the public library.
"Gilgamesh, thou Mighty of the Mighty!
Lord of the Red Flames, Lord of the BLUB FLAMES,
of the clouds and darkness.
Hear, O Mighty One. Let thy THUNDER descend and
44
BLAST die SPIRITS that haunt mv pathway!
Amen, Lord of the GOLDEN LIGHT, King beyond all
Kings.
Command thy MESSENGERS of the Yellow Flame to
consume and destroy all obstacles that mock me!
Hear, I command!"'
Is there not something strangely familiar and modern
about this? Has human nature changed in six thousand
years? We find ourselves wondering what it was that
destroyed Babylonia, and wonder at the forces that are
playing through the modern Babylonia of today. Note
in the following typical Ballard decree how history is.
"
repeating itself:
"Mighty I AM Presence . . . Mighty Astrea . . . Oromasis,
Lord of the FLAME!
Send Legions of Thy Angel Devas of the BLUE
LIGHTNING cz Divine Lore to seine, kind, and remove
within and around me and my world all ENTITIES —
carnate and discarnate forever; if they be of human crea
tion, annihilate Ihem . . .
What we decree for ourselves, we COMMAND for all
students of the I AM . . .
We thank Thee . . .
It is done this instant . . .
Compare these two decrees and note their startling sim
ilarity. "Mighty of the Mighty" becomes the "Mighty
I AM Presence." "Gilamesh, Lord of the Blue
Flames," becomes "Oromasis, Lord of the Flame." The
Babylonian "Thunder" becomes the Ballard "Light
ning." Both decrees deal with a "consuming, destroying,
annihilating FLAME," directed and projected to destroy
all that opposes them, but particularly "SPIRITS" or
"ENTITIES." In both the word "command" is used,
and the Babylonian "Amen" becomes the Ballard "We
thank Thee." This translation from this ancient Baby
lonia decree or curse even contains the word "BLAST,"
so prominent in practically all the Ballard decrees of this.
45
nature, as for instance :
' -
"Project the Blue Lightning . . . into the condi
tions of Europe, and BLAST the Cause and
Effect of that war and all disturbing conditions
from the face of the Earth forever; and into
T. -. ANY ACTIVITY that seeks to interfere with
the success of the I AM work!"
. In the inner circle of the Ballards' "Official Family"
special "decrees against individuals" are given to pre
vent them from speaking the truth about this movement.
-Actual NAMES are spoken! I give one such decree as
follows, but necessarily shall have to eliminate the three
persons' names against whom the Ballards' destructive
forces are directed.
"Mighty I AM Presence . SILENCE FOR
EVER, mentally and physically, all human
activities from ( ), ( ), and ( ) con
cerning Saint Germain's Activity and all under
this radiation!"
Now this is Black Magic, and is as far from the Christ
as darkness is from light. The sooner their poor deluded
followers realize with what malevolent forces they are
playing, the sooner will normal conditions come in this
modern Babylonia.
THE COMMERCIALISM OF AN "ASCENDED
MASTER ACTIVITY"
It is very evident from what has been presented in this
brochure that in addition to this movement being a means
of influencing the lives of thousands of people through the
power of mass hypnotism, it is a money-making racket.
Look over the list of wares that the Ballards offer their
public — books, magazines, pictures, charts, pins, rings,
folders, seals, book marks, victrola records, etc., all of
46
them sold at mighty good prices.
Take their book business alone. They claim to have
250,000 students. They have four standard-sized, cloth-
bound books, which they virtually require all their stu
dents to own. They receive — if their Master's promise
'
to them holds good — a "Saint Germain Dollar" for
each book sold. That means a million dollars for them,
not for the work, but for them personally, in accordance
with Saint Germain's promise to them. Actually, how
ever, they make more than a dollar on these four books.
/'UNVEILED MYSTERIES" cost them,. I am authentically in
formed, 233/2 cents each on the second edition of 5,000
copies. At $2.50 for this book, and $275 for. the other
three, they stand to make a huge profit. These books, and
.the other. "I AM" merchandise, are engineered to be sold
through the classes to escape the usual dealer's discount.
Their little paper-bound book of "I AM decrees" was
printed on a press secured through special donations from
students; yet these same students had to pay ONE DOL
LAR for
it,
when an ordinary commercial printer
could have produced
it
for less than
a
dime!
This commercialism ki the Ballard work would not be
so reprehensible had they really
a
genuine and authentic
commodity to sell. The sensible person expects to pay
a
good price for good merchandise. But the Ballards sold
intangibles. They sold promises. They sold "Ascensions,"
counterfeit "Ascended Masters," and fabricated "trans
cendental experiences." They borrowed, purloined, and
faked their merchandise a-nd then sold
it
to
a
gullible pub
lic at the highest market price for the genuine article.
They sold spiritual knowledge at materialistic prices un
der the guise of an "Ascended Master" teaching, They
took the creative and spiritual work of others, mixed
it
47
with their own psychism and imagination, then presented
it to the buying, credulous public on a golden platter,
demanding payment in like toll. They took thousands
of dollars aways from their followers on the strength of
promises — and promises alone — knowing full well,
unless they were the most thoroughly deceived people on
the face of the earth, that they, could not possibly deliver
the gocds.
THE GREAT DECEPTION
This counterfeit Saint Germain "Ascended Master In
struction" has deceived unnumbered thousands through
out our land. It has broken up homes; it has caused
insanities; it has worked a great crime against one of
God's creations— the animal kingdom. And the end is
not yet. Dictatorship in its worst form — coming as
it does under the guise of religion — is manacling the
minds and souls of its followers. A sort of Fascist
psychic rulership has risen, and is preparing the minds
of its dupes for national dictatorship. And all this is
being done under the deceptive caption of "SAVE
AMERICA!" — when what is really intended is to
"ENSLAVE AMERICA!" It is a subtle activity of
of the anti-Christ forces coming forth with cleverly
baited metaphysical and patriotic formulas, but, in
wardly, something entirely different — and menacing.
The Ballard Saint Germain is representative of a
psychic dictatorship, which would lay hold upon our
people and sway them by mass hypnotism and black
magic forces into the particular molds desired by what
ever future political system best fits in with a Fascist
picture. The reader would do well to have nothing to
do with him, nor with any of his works.
The "I AM" Denes
THE JALLARD
SAINT GERMAIN
By
GERALD B. BRYAN
Brochure No. 5
The "I AM" Denes
THE BALLARD
SAINT GERMAIN
By
GERALD B. BRYAN
Brochure No. 5
