{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__bowen___the_occult_way.pdf","mytitle":"The Occult Way","mylang":"de"}
THE OCCULT WAY
By
P. G. BOWEN
PRESIDENT : THE HERMETIC SOCIETY, DUBLIN
Author of “ The Sayings of the Ancient One”
TH E O C C U L T B O O K SO C IE TY
Paternoster House, Paternoster Row
London, E.C.4
P r i n t e d i n
G R E A T B R IT A IN ,
A T T H E A N C H O R
PRESS, T IPT R E E ,
: : e s s e x : ;
Dedicated
to
T he Memory
“A E”
CONTENTS
PART I
FAO*
C L E A R IN G T H E G R O U N D
Seven lessons in Practical Occultism— Lessons addressed to
Learner— Who the Learner is— Rules for Learner— Origin
of Lessons— Terminology of Lessons— Glossary . . . 1 3
L esson I
T H E P H ILO SO PH IC FO U N D A T IO N
The A B S O L U T E — IS-NESS— L IF E , the Root of Existence—
E V E R B E C O M IN G — The D IV IN E T R IN IT Y — Man the
Symbol of Life— Concluding Hints and Mantras . . 23
I L esso n II
T H E P R A C T IC A L FO U N D A T IO N
The first Trial— Self-examination— The Power that Moves— Early
difficulties— Habits— (a) Unconscious habits, (b) Semi­
conscious habits, (c) Conscious habits— Psycho-analysis—
Appetites— Virtue and Vice— Closing Mantram . . . 34
L esson III
T H E T E N V IR T U E S
Information not Knowledge— Character of true Teacher— D u ty of
Learner— D uty of Teacher— Occultism, the Science of Life—
The Ten Virtues : practice of, the first step— Imagination and
its use— The problem of Harmlessness— The problem of
Truthfulness— The problem of Justice— Comments upon the
three problems— The Virtue of Purity— The Virtue of Self-
reliance— The Virtue of Charity— The Virtue of Contentment
— The Virtue of Discrimination— The Virtue of Simplicity
— The Virtue of Self-surrender— Advice and warnings—
Concluding Mantram . . . . . . . 59
L e s s o n IV
B A L A N C E
Balance gives freedom— Balance gives possession of Soul— The
Soul and its analogues— The Step— The Cell— Birth and re­
birth of Soul-Elements of human manifestation— Comments
vii
V ili C O N T E N T S
PAGE
upon the Elements : Self, Energy, the Sphere of Ignorance—
Practical exercise in Balancing the Forces— Notes on Con­
ditions— Comments on glyph of Powers of Being— Concluding
Mantram . . . . . . . . . 91
L e s s o n V
IN V O C A TIO N
Soul found, only to be lost— Disciple, a Conscious servant of
Life— A ct of finding Soul makes man a Disciple— Disciple, a
"Companion of Eternity”— Glyph of the Powers of Being
re-examined— IN V O CATIO N explained— Invocation, a privi­
lege and a right— Modes of Invocation— The Guardian Lords
— Sound— Colour— Number— Idea— Scripture study— Rules
of Study— Poetry, study of— Music, study of— Art, study of—
Nature, study of— Ceremonial Magic— Concluding advice and
warnings— Closing Mantram . . . . . . 1 1 5
L e s s o n VI
E V O C A T IO N
Desire cannot be destroyed— Self can be freed from Desire— Self
must vitalize and command Desire— The Snare of Mysticism
— W ithout Scientific knowledge Learner liable to fall into
mysticism— The goal of the Scientific Occultist, to be Con­
scious minister to all life— Invocation frees from Lower Powers
— Evocation gives command of Lower Powers— Reasons why
Evocation must be practised, tabulated— Evocation governed
b y same laws as Invocation— Greater risks and difficulties of
Evocation— Evocation, practised through (a) Physical
training, (b) Reading, (c) The Theatre, [d) Study of Humanity,
(e) Teaching— Comments on physical training (see also Lesson
vi, Part II)— On Reading— On the Theatre— On Study of
Humanity — On Teaching — Concluding advice — Closing
Mantram . . . . . . . . . 140
L e s s o n V II
N A T U R A L M AG IC
The ancient Mystery schools— The Druids, the Master Initiators—
The priests of the Old Gods and of the Mother— Laws of the
Ancient Mysteries still hold— Attributes of the Magician— The
Four Magic Weapons of the Druid : Compassion, Harmony of
Soul, Skill in Action, Universal Vision— Comments on the
"Four Weapons” ; "The weary Animal" ; The "Sorrows of
the Child” ; The “ Mind of the Stranger” ; The "E ye that
Sees Nature” ; The "Heart that Comprehends Nature” ; The
"Courage that lives with Nature”— Skill in Action— Univer­
sal Vision— The Vision on the Threshold— The M A ST E R —
Nature of the M A ST E R — The Iniation— Closing Mantram 162
C O N T E N T S IX
PAGE
PAR T II
T H E L E A R N E R ’S Q U ESTIO N S
ON : L esson I . . . . . . . . 189
L esson II . . . . . . . . 194
L e s s o n III . . . . . . . . 197
L esson IV . . . . . . . . 200
L esson V . . . . . . . . 203
L esson V I (contains instructions in Physical Training) . 206
L esson V II . . . . . . . . 217
Miscellaneous Questions . . . . . . 219
L A S T W O R D S ..................................................................................... 223
P A R T I
CLEARING THE GROUND
In the beginning, earth was without form
And void
And blackness covered the great deep.
T he FIRST STEP towards success in any task is taken by
learning all that can be learned of its nature, and of the nature
of the effort it will demand, without actually embarking upon
it. The step is completed by attentively considering one’s own
nature, and deciding in the light gained through the study
whether one possesses the power, and above all the will, to do
what the work will require. To leap into action without some
such preliminary movement will mean that the chances of
failure, which naturally and inevitably accompany all human
endeavours, will be greatly increased ; and if this is true when
the task lies in the everyday world, it is doubly true when it
lies in the Occult Realm, for there human values do not
obtain, and indeed are often reversed.
A task, in the form of Seven Lessons in Practical Occultism,
is placed before the reader of this book. He may decide to
undertake it, or he may n ot; but before making his decision
he should, as a person of intelligence, endeavour to learn all
that it is possible for him to learn of the work to which he is
invited, and thus furnish himself with clear-cut reasons for
whatever attitude towards it he chooses to assume.
To aid the prospective student in taking his first step, this
prefatory, unnumbered lesson is given. All who look to profit
in any way from the book, even though they do not contem­
plate making it a definite, practical study, are earnestly
advised to give the lesson the closest attention. Success in the
field of Occultism is at best difficult to achieve, but it is apt
to become impossible unless the instructions herein set forth
are held firmly in mind as a background for all subsequent
effort.
13
i4 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
The seven numbered lessons are addressed to the Aspirant
who seriously desires to fit himselffor Discipleship, but who, in
the absence of a competent guide— a person not readily found
— finds himself unable to understand, much less to apply the
rules laid down in recognized Occult Classics, such as Light on
the Path, The Bhagavad Gita, The Voice of the Silence, and others
of equal status. For him I write and for none other. For the
more advanced student who has himselffound the Way, or has
attracted to his side an expert teacher, I do not write : such as
he do not need the elementary instruction which is all my own
knowledge permits me to give. For the student who is still
wedded to Authority I have no word either : were he to
exchange the authority he now favours for mine it would help
him in no way. But to the Learner who has still an open mind,
even though he has followed after many guides, gathered a
store of occult information, and built up conceptions of the
Inner Worlds and the Way thereto, I may speak with profit-
profit both to him and to myself, for none can give without
receiving.
It may be thought by some that of students of the type I
have in mind the number must be few, but that is not my own
opinion. I believe that many such exist in every walk of life—
though perhaps not in circles professedly occult— and that
their numbers are steadily increasing. Yet, admitting the
possibility that I may be mistaken, and that real Learners are
few, nevertheless those few call for help, and it is in answer to
that call that these lessons are given. To ensure that the help
proffered is made real and effective an effort proportionate to
that which the teacher makes is demanded of the Learner, and
the first aspect of it which he is called upon to manifest takes
the form of carefully studying and endeavouring to comply
with the following rules :
(1) . Do not come to this book with the idea of finding in
it a watertight philosophy of life, ready-made. To provide
you with that is not its purpose, but to direct you into the
beginning of a Way of Living— a way which if diligently
followed will lead you on, step by step, to discovery for yourself
of all the truth of life you will ever need or ever can use.
(2) . Do not attempt serious concentratedstudy ofthe lessons,
C L E A R I N G T H E G R O U N D 1 5
or practice of the exercises described in them, until you have
first read the whole book with attention, and have obtained a
fair general comprehension of its scope and method, thereby,
throughyour own thinking, establishing in your mind confirmation
of what is taught in the present lesson.
(3) . Do not, when once launched upon definite study, pass
any lesson without some certainty that you have grasped an
appreciable portion of its meaning, and without having made
a determined effort to practise the exercises taught in it.
(4) . Do not attempt any serious study of Lessons V, VI,
and VII until certain of a thorough understanding of Lessons
III and IV, and until you have gained proficiency in the
exercises described in them.
(5) . Do not attempt the practical work outlined in Lesson
VII until consciousness of real power has evolved in you.
(6) . Do not embark upon this study with the idea that it
will in a year, or in five years, or in any number of years,
develop you into an Adept. If you do so you are likely to be
disappointed. If studied, understood, and lived out, the lessons
will put you in harmony with the hidden Laws of Life, and to
be thus should be your sole ambition. Mot until you have
developed knowledge such as will enableyou to know an Adept when
you meethim, orreadhis words, willyouyourselfapproachAdeptship.
(7) . Do not confine yourself immovably to the practices
outlined in the lessons, but use them as guides in framing
exercises for yourself.
(8) . Do not judge the lessons by the standard of accepted
authority, but by the standard of Life. If you find that the
teachings contradict authority, as doubtless you frequently
will, look out earnestly upon Life itself and ask if they con­
tradict it.
(9) . Do not struggle to reconcile the teachings with
favourite preconceptions of your own ; if you do so you will
end by building yourself a beautiful Castle of Illusion. Strive
to come to the study with a mind swept clean of preconception.
(10) . Do not for a moment forget that you are a Learner,
and that the lessons are addressed to Learners, not to men in
general who in no way aspire towards the Occult Path. This
book contains no panaceas for the ills of the world, therefore
i6 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
do not search for them, but seek always the Path of Wisdom,
for wisdom will show you the cause and cure of all ills.
(n ). Do not imagine that the advanced lessons are of
greater importance than the others ; each in its own place is of
equal importance with every other. Give equal study and
thought to each, and none will be easier or harder to master
than another.
(12) . Think of the giver of these lessons, if you find it
necessary to think of him at all, not as a law-giver, or a
preacher, but as a slightly older Learner— a Pupil-teacher.
(13) . Think of the lessons as lessons, not as sermons, rules
of conduct, or codes of morals.
(14) . Put away all desire to be learned, and think only of
learning. Knowledge is co-existent with LIFE : LIFE is eternal :
therefore of learning there is no end.
Do what you can to recover the “child stateyou have lost” .
In the form of the child, Life holds up before your eyes for
your instruction a living example of the true Learner. The
adult dignity of the Western student weighs him down and
shuts him away from the Path of Learning, just as the “ great
possessions” of the rich man in the Gospel story shut him out of
the Kingdom of Heaven, because it causes him, materialisti­
cally, to include his Inner Being within his consciousness of
physical maturity. Information, falsely called knowledge, is
by the Enemy, Authority, spread in profusion in the path of the
adult, who therewith builds an exitless prison, and sits in it,
and dreams that he is free ; but, of the same material, the
child, the Learner, builds him a bridge to knowledge, and in
freedom walks upon it safe from the snares of the Foe.
Origin of the Lessons.
In what particular school of occult thought have these
lessons their origin ? This is a question certain to be asked, at
least by students experienced in occult studies. Ideas and
practices suggestive of Raja Yoga may be distinguished in some
of the lessons. Others (particularly in Lesson IV) may be
noted that can hardly have origin anywhere but in the
Qabalah, and its glyph, the Tree of Life. Others, again, point
to the Arhat Philosophy or Theosophy of H. P. Blavatsky as
C L E A R I N G T H E G R O U N D 17
their source ; and others, still, to The Ancient Mysteries and
Druidism. But while all these systems appear, in some measure,
to have been placed under contribution, the curious inquirer
may find it difficult to ascribe the lessons as a whole to any
known occult school.
To affix labels to himself, his ways and works is one of the
commonest and strongest instincts of man, and it is one which
the average student of Occultism shares quite equally with
other men. It is an attribute, however, which the Learner
should seek to eliminate from his nature, for it is but one of the
disguises in which the Sense ofSeparateness, the demon that keeps
strife alive in the world, constantly manifests. Should I (as I
would) refrain from referring these lessons to any particular
occult source, leaving them to be accepted or rejected entirely
on their own merits, it is certain that students and others would
label them for themselves, and equally certainly label them
wrongly.
The system outlined— for outlined is all it is— in the series
of lessons I present, and in the answers to questions which I
give in Part II of the book, does not originate in any of the
Occult Schools commonly known and already enumerated.
The general ground-plan— the seven numbered steps rising
from an unnumbered foundation (the present)— is derived
from a system followed by an obscure circle of students
of Occultism (of which I myself am a lay, or “ externe”
member) which has its working centre in the Middle East.
This Circle has no name that would convey any meaning to
the Western reader. It claims no particular “ Tradition” , but
should the reader insist on ascribing it one he may, without
undue inaccuracy, call it HERMETIC, remembering that, in
the words of an elder brother, “ Hermetic Philosophy . . . is
the boundless ocean of Truth, the central point whither flows
and wherein meets every river, as every stream— whether its
source be in the East, West, North, or South.”
So much it is necessary to say concerning the source of the
teachings I give, but in saying it I do not desire it to be
thought that I am disclaiming individual responsibility for any
ideas contained in the book or for the manner in which they
are presented. Quite otherwise : I merely desire to make
B
i8 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
clear that I am not the creator of the material I handle, but
rather am an interpreter, and that I accept an interpreter’s
responsibility.
Here I think it is but right to say that my knowledge of
Occultism, philosophic or practical, such as it is, has not,
except to a very minor extent, been derived from study of
books. With the sole exception of the little manual Light on the
Path, of which I knew the substance in another language
twenty-five years before I encountered the English version,
there is no other occult work in any European language that
I have ever read through completely. I accept H. P. Blavatsky
as the direct agent of advanced teachers, and have a profound
respect for her knowledge, but of her great works I have only
read as much as sufficed to convince me that she KNEW.
My remissness as a student may possibly shock certain
readers, and were I a documentarian, or anything but what
I am, an interpreter, it would be inexcusable ; yet I myself
feel it a profound advantage to know little of the written word.
To the vast majority of Western students, books, or at least
a few genuine Scriptures, are an absolute necessity; but
heterogeneous reading of occult literature, while the student
yet lacks real knowledge of his own, is the most fruitful of all
sources of spiritual confusion.
Terminology of the Lessons.
Unfamiliarity with standard works on Occultism leaves me
without that command of occult terminology which most
Western students appear to possess, and has compelled me to
evolve my own. Whether or no I thus suffer a disadvantage
I do not know, but think not. Easy familiarity with Sanscrit
and Hebrew terms appears to have left many young Theo-
sophists and Qabalists labouring under the delusion that the
application of those terms to certain conceptions makes the
conceptions themselves understood by the student and by
those to whom he speaks.
It is, of course, impossible to dispense with special terms
when writing on Occultism, and it is not easy to prevent them
from degenerating into mere labels ; but it is my belief that
foreign terms, the exact meaning of which cannot be rendered
C L E A R I N G T H E G R O U N D 19
in English, are far more likely so to degenerate than those which
one’s native language is capable of furnishing. For this reason
I employ none but English terms in these lessons ; and in order
to leave their exact meaning in as litde doubt as possible
I herewith append a Glossary, which, if carefully studied,
should greatly minimize the terminological difficulties which
the lessons would otherwise present.
It should be very clearly understood that the meanings
I attribute to the various terms listed are merely those which
they bear when used by myselfin this book, and that I am in no
sense attempting to dictate how they should be understood
when used by others. For example, when I define the term
“ Soul” in a certain, perhaps unfamiliar, way, I am not declaring
that that and no other is the true meaning of the word, but
simply that that is what I myself imply when I use it.
GLOSSARY
ABSOLUTE, THE
(CAPITALS)
Adept (Proper Name) ..
Aspirant (Proper Name)
BEING (CAPITALS) ..
Being (Proper Name) ..
being (Common Noun)..
CAPITALS
CONSCIOUSNESS
(CAPITALS)
Disciple (Proper Name)
disciple (Common Noun)
DIVINE TRINITY
(CAPITALS)
DIVINE VIBRATION
(CAPITALS)
ENERGY (CAPITALS)
Energy (Proper Name)
energy (Common Noun)
EVERBECOMING
(CAPITALS)
Everbecoming (Proper Name)
everbecoming (Common Noun)
God (Proper Name)
IS-NESS or BE-NESS : the First Principle
of existence. (See Lesson I.)
A man who by a conscious effort of will is
able to free his Being from the in­
fluences that condition the human
Being, and thus obtains possession of
superhuman power and knowledge.
A candidate for initiation into Discipleship.
(See Learner; Neophyte.)
The same as LIFE.
The complete or real nature of man, or
of any entity.
Everyday meaning.
Words and terms printed in CAPITALS
refer to the ultimate or noumenal nature
of beings, things, and conditions.
The noumenal principle of Consciousness:
one of the three ultimate elements
that interact to produce LIFE. (See
EN ERGY and SUBSTANCE, also
Lesson I.)
The accepted pupil of an Adept: one who
by his own efforts has found the Spiritual
Path.
Usual meaning : follower.
L I F E : B E IN G : the metaphysical syn­
thesis of noumenal CONSCIOUSNESS,
ENERGY, and SUBSTANCE. (See Les­
son I.)
Same as DIVINE TRINITY.
Noumenal or unconditioned energy: the
second of the three abstract elements of
LIFE. (See Lesson I.)
The metaphysical dynamic principle in
man, or any other entity. (See Lesson
IV.)
Ordinary restricted meaning.
LIFE as manifest in its single attribute of
“Eternal, ceaseless motion” : its aspects
eternally passing into itself. (See Lesson
I-)
The perpetual passing of the lower into the
higher Self in man.
Usual meaning.
The anthropomorphic deity of the Christians
or other religionists, not recognized as
existing by Occultists.
Spiritual Beings which in long past world-
cycles transcended the human phase of
Becoming. Planetary Spirits.
20
god, or gods (Common Noun)..
GLOSSARY 21
Guardian Lords (Proper Name)
INITIATE (CAPITALS)
Initiate (Proper Name)
initiate (Common Noun)
Italics
Learner (Proper Name)
LIFE (CAPITALS) ..
Life (Proper Name)
life (Common Noun) ..
Magic (Proper Name) ..
Magician (Proper Name)
MASTER (CAPITALS)
Master (Proper Name)
MOTHER, THE (CAPITALS)
Mother, The (Proper Name) ..
The Spiritual Entities or Energies that
manifest in Sound, Colour, Number, and
Idea.
One of many names given to the great
Being, the Father-Spirit of this planet,
■ w
h
o by emanation of his Energies into a
Centre of dormant life (the seed produced
by an evolutionary cycle of inferior
degree to his own) initiated the evolution
of our planet and all its life, and still
governs it. THE INITIATE is himself
the perfected product of an evolutionary
cycle analogous to that through which
our world is passing. He is not the
creator of the world any more than a
human father is the creator of the child
he begets.
He is known by very many different
names both abstract and personal:
TH E MASTER, THE GREAT SACRI­
FICE, THE SILENT WATCHER,
THE ANCIENT ONE, THE MASTER
MAGICIAN, THE DIVINE PYMAN-
DER.
The student should carefully avoid
thinking of the Father-Spirit as a
supreme Being in any sense other than
relative to this world. (See also Lesson
VII.)
The same as Adept.
Ordinary meaning.
Where terms are italicized it intimates
that a deeper, more spiritual meaning
than the ordinary should be looked
for.
The same as Aspirant or Neophyte.
The ultimate NOUMENON of all existence.
(See BEING, D IVINE TRINITY, etc.,
also Lesson I.)
The spiritual or immortal life of the human,
or any other entity.
Ordinary restricted meaning.
The' synthesized power of Invocation and
Evocation wielded by an Adept. (Lessons
V, VI, and VII.)
An adept.
TH E INITIATE.
When preceded by the definite article (The)
Master in the "Hermetic” Schools means
the same as The Buddha— that is, a man
who has transcended human evolution
but pauses on the threshold of a higher
world to aid struggling humanity. In
a more general way the term is applied
to the Arch-Adept who stands at the head
of a particular Occult “School” , or phase,
or sub-phase of human evolution.
The noumenal element of SUBSTANCE.
Universal Nature : the synthesis of laws
or conditions governing evolution of
Conscious Being.
22 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
Nature (Proper Name)..
nature (Common Noun)
Neophyte (Proper Noun)
PATH (CAPITALS) ..
Path (Proper Name)
path (Common Noun) ..
Proper Names ..
SELF (CAPITALS)
Self (Proper Name)
self (Common Noun)
SOUL \
Soul / .........................
Sphere o f Ignorance (Proper
Name)
SPIRIT (CAPITALS)
Spirit (Proper Name)
Spirit, A (Proper Name)
SUBSTANCE (CAPITALS) ..
As above.
Everyday meaning.
Same as Learner and Aspirant.
The Spiritual Life. (See Lesson II.)
The Way of the Aspirant.
Ordinary meaning.
Words and terms which in ordinary usage
are Common Nouns indicate when
printed as Proper Names conceptions that
are higher or more spiritual analogues of
their common meanings.
LIFE, as the Noumenon of Self-conscious­
ness.
The Higher or Ruling Consciousness in
man.
Any aspect of self more limited than the
foregoing.
See Lesson IV for full exposition.
See Lesson IV.
Same as LIFE : BEING.
Essential or real Being. Being.
The essential Being of any entity when
freed from the limitations of any evolu­
tionary cycle becomes a Spirit relative
to it. But a man when speaking of his
essential or immortal Being, as distinct
from the things that condition its mani­
festation, may rightly declare that he is a
Spirit.
It would be entirely correct to define
Soul as the reflection of the Spirit, com­
plete and perfect only inasmuch as the
Body of Knowledge that contains it is
complete and perfect. It is not that
which the Spirit is, but that phase of itself
which the Spirit has brought to per­
fection.
One of the three noumenal elements of
LIFE. SUBSTANCE must not be con­
fused with Matter. It is simply the
negative of CONSCIOUSNESS. Matter
is merely an appearance resulting
from interaction of CONSCIOUSNESS,
ENERGY, and SUBSTANCE. It may
be called VOID, but only in the sense
that physical space is void. Science sees
space as a field of cosmic energy, or, as
some say, an ocean of "Ether” . Occult
SUBSTANCE may be regarded as a
metaphysical "ether” filling metaphysi­
cal space.
Lesson I
THE PHILOSOPHIC FOUNDATION
“THE SECRET DOCTRINE establishes threefundamental
propositions:
(a) An Omnipresent, Eternal, Boundless, and Immutable
PRINCIPLE on which all speculation is impossible since it tran­
scends the power of human conception, and could only be dwarfed
by any human expression or similitude. It is beyond the range and
reach of thought . . . ‘unthinkable and unspeakable'
H. P. Blavatsky : The Secret Doctrine.
T he first postulate of Occult Philosophy, whether that philo­
sophy is of the East or of the West, is an ABSOLUTE, but of
the real meaning of the conception very little appears to be
understood by students in general, or even by many who take
it upon themselves to teach. O f the latter there are some who
it is impossible to believe lack the correct understanding, yet
who for reasons very hard to appreciate make confusion trebly
confounded by referring the term THE ABSOLUTE to
states of Self-conscious Being, which are absolute relative to
a particular evolutionary cycle transcended, but are in no
sense whatsoever THE ABSOLUTE of universal Occult
Philosophy defined by H. P. Blavatsky in the words above
quoted.
As to this “First Fundamental Proposition” of The Secret
Doctrine, as a definition it would be entirely unexceptionable
if only the comments which “ H.P.B.” makes upon it were
distinctly separated from others on the same page that refer
not to the First PRINCIPLE, but to the First CAUSE, or
Noumenon, of manifest Life. But her exposition as it stands,
on this page 14 of her own edition of The Secret Doctrine, has
left multitudes of earnest students in the deepest confusion
as to what her “ABSOLUTE” really is.
24 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
When attempting to convey to others some understanding
of occult truths a writer is inevitably faced by difficulties not
encountered in other fields of endeavour, and of these, by no
means the least is that of inducing the average student to
divert his mind away from regions which he has come to
imagine as lofty and spiritual, but which are in reality wholly
illusory, and to direct it upon the actual Book of Life, which
lies open before him to read if only he will. Words such as
“soul” and “spirit” , and many others, which in default of
better we are constantly compelled to use, have, because of
old associations, the effect of diverting the thoughts of the
Learner from contemplation of innumerable patent truths
lying all about him upon the face of this “solid earth”, and
of sending them wandering in search of reality into the depths
of physical space, which Physical Science itself declares to be
a mere illusion.
Nothing is more illustrative of the foregoing remarks than
the confusion which prevails concerning this idea of an
ABSOLUTE. Let any intelligent person but divorce from his
mind those misty notions concerning transcendental “ Seventh
Planes” , and the life beyond them, and he cannot fail, when
once the fact is indicated, to perceive that the only possible
assertion that is ABSOLUTE, that can be made concerning
LIFE, and all that is included in that term, is that it IS. The
Principle ofIS-NESS is THE ABSOLUTE. H. P. Blavatsky says
that BE-NESS rather than BEING is the ONE ABSOLUTE,
but unintentionally (or perhaps intentionally— who knows ?)
proceeds without any clear intimation of change of subject to
discuss not the former but the latter, and thus has bewildered
thousands of her readers. (A)
IS-NESS is the sole principle in all life that cannot by any
means whatsoever be modified, abolished, exchanged for
something else, or known at all apart from the things that
ARE, the life that IS. “But,” the bewildered Beginner may
very likely object, “ this IS-NESS does not produce anything,
nor explain anything. Whence came it ? Something must
have caused or created it. The idea compels us to return once
more to the conception of a God behind all things.”
One can but repeat: “ Open your eyes and look upon the
T H E P H I L O S O P H I C F O U N D A T I O N 25
fact for yourself.” IS-NESS, the ONE ABSOLUTE, neither
explains nor is it to be explained. To argue that any power, or
any God, has produced it is to argue an absurdity, for if such
a God is, IS-NESS is His First Principle, and must have
preceded him.
One of the great obstacles to understanding of THE
ABSOLUTE is that ofthinking of it as a cause. A cause, because
it is inevitably conditioned by that which it causes, cannot
be absolute. IS-NESS cannot be conditioned, and does not
cause anything. To speak of THE ABSOLUTE as the “ Cause­
less Cause” , as H. P. Blavatsky is alleged by some of her
followers to do (but as I think she does not), is to add but another
element to the Cauldron of Confusion.
When once it is thoroughly grasped this conception of THE
ABSOLUTE, simply as IS-NESS, serves the Learner in a most
important practical way : it eliminates from the mind once
and for all every lingering shadow of beliefin an extra-Cosmic
“ Creator” , and thus deals a fatal blow at the power of authority,
of which faith in a separate God is the ultimate root. If the
root be destroyed, the power, though it may for a period
preserve the semblance of life, must inevitably lose strength
and wither, and finally die without hope of resurrection.
Further than I have gone it is not profitable to go in
discussion of THE ABSOLUTE. IT IS, but IT is unknown
and unknowable. With that which is unknown, but potentially
knowable, Occultism has supreme concern, but with that
which is unknown and unknowable it has no concern at
all.
LIFE.
Passing now from the ABSOLUTE IS to the things that
are I come first to consideration of that which is the root, or
Noumenon, of universal existence. This is BEING in the
abstract, but I shall call it simply LIFE, since the term BEING
is apt to cause misunderstanding. LIFE is being infinite and
eternal, but not a being, nor yet the collective hierarchies of
Beings that constitute the manifested Universe, for all these
are but limited expressions of it. LIFE is the unmanifest Logos
of the Greek philosophers. It is that which in the Gospel
26 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
according to St. John is called “The Word (which) was with
God” , meaning that it is the thing which is nearest to THE
ABSOLUTE, the unknowable Principle of IS-NESS, and like
it is in itself, in its actuality, eternally unknowable. Yet LIFE,
though eternal and infinite, is not absolute, for it reveals itself
in an infinitude of modifications of itself, whereas IS-NESS
is subject to no modification whatsoever.
LIFE possesses a single attribute, which is said to be itself,
the quality of EVERBECOMING. In her great work, The
SecretDoctrine, H. P. Blavatsky speaks ofthis EVERBECOMING
as “eternal, ceaseless MOTION” . In Eastern Occultism it is
called “ The Great Breath” . To the man who will but open his
eyes and use his understanding it is everywhere manifest.
Whether we survey the Universe of Universes as a single
Being (which it is, since no expression of LIFE can be other
than alive), or a man, or a tree, or an atom, we see this “ eternal,
ceaseless Motion” revealed in an endless procession of aspects
of LIFE passing into LIFE itself. Look, for example, upon
a tree in Springtime when new shoots are being put forth, and
buds are unfolding into leaves. You perceive a certain form,
and you call that form “tree” , and think that you know what
a tree is. But tomorrow look again upon the tree, and ask
yourself if what you perceive is really the appearance you saw
yesterday, and called “tree” . Have not the buds unfolded
further ? Have not the shoots lengthened ? Is not the form before
you subtly, but none the less actually, different from that which
you looked upon yesterday ? Is it not the fact that what you
now call “ tree” is not the appearance to which yesterday you
gave the same name ? Suppose you were an intelligent visitor
from another planet who knew nothing of the life-forms of this
world, and were shown a tree in Winter, you would depart to
your own world believing that you knew the tree. But if six
months later you repeated your visit, and were shown the
same tree, do you imagine that you would associate the second
appearance with the first ? Assuredly not.
What then is this thing you call “ tree” , which on no two
successive occasions presents quite the same appearance ? Have
you ever seen the actual tree ? Obviously not. You have been
giving the name of “ tree” to an endless procession of appear-
T H E P H I L O S O P H I C F O U N D A T I O N 27
ances which a certain aspect of LIFE presents to you, but that
aspect, the real Tree, you have never seen at all : it exists in
your consciousness only as an idea to which you find it impos­
sible to give form. Where is the “ tree” you perceived yesterday,
and where, tomorrow, will the “ tree” be which you perceive
today ? Both will have vanished for ever, absorbed into a form­
less, never-manifest IDEA.
It has been said that in order to perceive the reality of a
tree one would have to be able to perceive in a glance its whole
life-course, from the seed from which it sprang, through all its
phases of growth, onward to its fall and crumbling to dust. Yet
comprehensive though such a vision would be, it would reveal
only a limited aspect of the reality, for the existing “ tree” is
merely a phase of the life of a seed, and another seed will
continue the life of the tree when it has fallen and crumbled
into dust. The life-course of the tree from seed to seed, if
perceived in a single vision, would still be no more than a passing
appearance, like all other appearances existing only to vanish
on the instant into an idea, or consciousness of a REALITY,
which, though called by a myriad names, never has, and never
can have, a manifest form.
The ultimate REALITY into which all appearances
eternally pass and are lost is LIFE. The eternal procession
of its aspects eternally vanishing into the Noumenon, LIFE
itself, is the EVERBECOMING, the “eternal, ceaseless
Motion” of the real UNIVERSE. LIFE is ; but it is manifest
only in its sole attribute, EVERBECOMING, which is
ITSELF.
Has the Occult Doctrine any mode of explaining LIFE and
its manifestation other than that outlined ? it may be asked.
Certainly it has, but none, I think, likely to explain it better.
Obviously LIFE itself cannot be explained by any man,
however wise, for man himself is but a passing phase of its
attribute, EVERBECOMING, and can know the REALITY
of which he is an appearance in no way other than by con­
sciously being Everbecoming. There is, however, a more
metaphysical mode of approach to the subject, and for
the benefit of those who prefer that method I will here
state it.
28 T H E O G C I I L T W A Y
THE DIVINE TRINITY.
BEING (or any Being) in ultimate metaphysical analysis is
a compound of three elements, neither of which has any
independent manifestation, or is knowable otherwise than in
interaction with the other two. They are CONSCIOUSNESS,
ENERGY, and SUBSTANCE. All three exist in everything—
in every aspect of LIFE, whether that aspect is perceived
objectively through the senses or subjectively as an image in
Consciousness, as a thought or a feeling, or in any other way.
By the degree to which any one element is conditioned by the
other two the nature or character of every Being and thing is
determined. Thus in low forms of manifestations such as
minerals CONSCIOUSNESS is so closely associated with
SUBSTANCE that the condition permits only the most
limited manifestation of ENERGY. On the other hand, in
Elemental manifestations CONSCIOUSNESS and ENERGY
associate so intimately that SUBSTANCE is hardly exhibited
in them at all.
Now LIFE, the ultimate NOUMENON, because it mani­
fests to perceiving Consciousness always in Being, and never
otherwise, is itself conceived to be a metaphysical compound
of the three primary elements each in its noumenal, or uncon­
ditioned, state. LIFE is therefore pure CONSCIOUSNESS,
pure ENERGY, pure SUBSTANCE, and equally neither,
but a thing entirely inconceivable— an unconditioned compound
of the three.
In an endeavour to express a conception essentially inex­
pressible, the Masters of the Mystery Schools of the lost
Mediterranean World described this unconditioned compound
as a metaphysical VIBRATION occurring outside of Time and
Space, wherein the unconditioned elements, CONSCIOUS­
NESS, and SUBSTANCE incessantly displace each other,
and ENERGY is the VIBRATION itself. The same Masters,
and their successors the Hermatic Adepts, also called this
VIBRATION the DIVINE TRINITY, while their brethren
of the more distant East called it simply THAT.
O f this DIVINE A C TIV ITY the only conception possible
to human mind is that of a ceaseless and eternal veiling of
bright CONSCIOUSNESS in the body of dark SUBSTANCE,
T H E P H I L O S O P H I C F O U N D A T I O N 29
and a ceaseless and eternal melting of dark SUBSTANCE in
the embrace of bright CONSCIOUSNESS.
Narrowed into terms of Time-Consciousness, “Divine
Activity” manifests in the manner already indicated, in the
phenomenal Everbecoming of which man himself is a part.
The DIVINE VIBRATION is everywhere; everywhere,
everlastingly, the man of awakened perceptions may perceive
the bright body of Consciousness merging itself in the dark
body of Substance, and again emerging from it in the shining
form of the Child, KNOWLEDGE.
The Six-pointed Star within the Circle of Eternity, the most
ancient of the sacred symbols of the world, had its origin in an
attempt to suggest the nature of the DIVINE VIBRATION.
Is the DIVINE TRIN ITY a Self-conscious Being? It
cannot be, for IT is infinite, and Being implies limitation. In
IT all Beings have their Noumenon, and in IT as uncon­
ditioned CONSCIOUSNESS the Consciousness of every
Being has its Noumenon. DIVINE BEING is all things but
possesses no thing; IT possesses no Self, but IT is the ONE,
the only true, SELF.
Man : the symbol of LIFE.
Through its myriad aspects LIFE eternally speaks of its
nature to man, but most clearly and unmistakably does it speak
through man’s own Being. In himself man possesses a living
witness and symbol of LIFE universal. The Masters of the
ancient world taught that man is the Microcosm— the Cosmos
in little— and over the door of every temple and shrine of the
Mysteries they inscribed the words : “ Man, know thyself/” In
lessons like these all that such a saying may imply cannot be
expounded, but certain clues that may help to place the
Learner on the way to discovery ofits deeper significances may,
and should be, given. If studied diligently, the brief hints which
here follow may develop into the first, but by no means the
least important, of keys to understanding of LIFE.
In the formula “ I AM 7” every man expresses conscious­
ness of individual being. “ I” is the symbol of that which speaks,
and “7” is the symbol of that which is spoken of. “ I” never
changes. From the first Self-conscious word spoken by a man
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
30
to the last he utters before quitting this earth-life, he declares
an unchanging awareness of Being when he speaks the words
“ I AM ” . But not so when he says, “ I AM 7” , for here he identi­
fies his simple consciousness of Selfhood with phenomenal
aspects of his Being which are incessantly changing ; with his
physical nature, with his emotional nature, with his mental
nature, with what he and others term his character, a synthesis
of all other aspects of his Being. All these attributes, separately
or collectively, he terms “7” . Thus he has ever with him a
speaking symbol of LIFE infinite, eternally changeless, but
in its manifesting attributes eternally changing. Though he
knows it not he proclaims that he is LIFE itself whenever he
utters the magic words “ I AM 7” : “ I (LIFE) AM 7 (this
aspect becoming myself)” .
Concluding Hints.
Here ends this first lesson. It is not, and is not intended to
be, in any sense a full exposition of the Philosophy of Occultism,
not even of those few fundamental postulates discussed. Like
all others of this series of lessons, its purpose is not to inform
but to spur into activity in a certain direction the consciousness
of the Learner. Through that activity, and in no other way,
results will accrue to you in due time— results in the form of
true knowledge of your own. Information of a certain quality, in
limited quantity, is a powerful stimulant to the appetite for
knowledge, impelling the recipient to seek ways and means of
his own of satisfying it. But more than I have given would, I
conceive, at this stage in the lessons, be a hindrance, not a help,
because by creating the illusion that it itself was knowledge it
would kill in you desire to seek understanding for yourself.
From the brief and fragmentary outlines of the basic
principles of Life that I have given much that will be illuminat­
ing can be made to emerge, if only they receive from you a due
measure of attention. As an exercise strive to discern what their
implications are as respects those familiar doctrines : Spiritual
Evolution, Reincarnation, and “Karma” . Cast from your
mind whatever conceptions you already may have concerning
these “laws” , derived from what you have read elsewhere,
and, Starting from the principles expounded in this lesson—
T H E P H I L O S O P H I C F O U N D A T I O N 31
the root from which all “laws” spring— proceed to evolve your
own understanding. Knowledge of these and other occult
doctrines is not to be gained from exposition of, or speculations
concerning, their nature, but through study of LIFE changeless
in EVERBECOMING. (B)
This exercise of reformulating generally accepted doctrines
from first principles is valuable in the extreme, but it may also
prove extremely difficult, unless you are so fortunate as to have
come to this study unburdened by ideas derived from previous
study of an occult nature. In your early efforts you will with
certainty form many erroneous conclusions, but remind yourself
that it is exercise, not a conclusion to effort, that you are seeking,
and your errors will translate themselves into steps in the
Ladder to Knowledge. You cannot avoid falling into bewilder­
ment at times, but do not permit bewilderment to cause you
to despair, for if we were never bewildered we should never
strive for light and clear-seeing. When in difficulty do not rush
for help to other books and teachers, for to do that is like
attempting to change horses in mid-stream.* If your difficulty
is overpowering, and nothing that this book can give serves to
mitigate it, then you are invited to refer it to myself.
In conclusion, study, and if possible commit to memory, the
following quotations : they are the word of Masters who
KNEW.
AN HERMETIC POSTULATE.
As is the Inner so is the Outer ; as is the Great so is the
Small; as it is Above so it is Below : there is but one Life and
Law. Nothing is Inner, nothing is Outer ; nothing is Great,
nothing is Small; nothing is High, nothing is Low, in the
DIVINE ECONOMY.
AN ASSEVERATION (.HERMETIC RITUAL).
In the beginning, Earth was without form and void, and
Darkness covered the GREAT DEEP. Then from DARKNESS
a VOICE sounds, sending its echoes throughout non-Being,
and these are the words which it speaks :
* This advice does not, of course, apply to books recommended for use
elsewhere in the lessons.
32 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
I am all that was. I am all that is. I am all that is to be.
I am all forms; all forms live in me, but ALL-FORM is
not I, but only my fleeting shadows.
I am all power ; all power moves in me, but ALL-POWER
is not I, but only my changing aspects.
I am all wisdom; all wisdom shines in me, but ALL­
WISDOM is not I, but only my fitful gleams.
All knowledge, all power, all substance live in ME, and
I am in them and manifest through them, but I am also above
them, and beyond them, eternally unmanifest.
FROM THE “ KENA UPANISHAD,\ *
BY WHOM impelled flies the forward-impelled Mind ?
BY WHOM compelled does the First Life go forth ?
BY WHO M outbreathed is thisVoice wherewith men speak ?
WHO, in truth, is the BRIGHT ONE, who commands
voice, sight, and hearing ?
TH AT which they call the Hearing of hearing, the Mind
of mind, the Voice of voice, THAT is the LIFE of Life, the
Sight of sight. Setting That free the Wise Ones passing from
this world open the Gates of Eternity.
Sight goes not thither, nor does voice go thither, nor mind.
We have not seen, nor do we know how knowledge of That
may be given ; for That whereof we desire to speak is the
KNOWN and the UNKNOWN also.
Thus have we heard from the Masters of Old, from the
Wise Ones who went before us :
THAT by which voice is not spoken, THAT through whose
power voice is spoken : THAT, verily, know thou as the
Eternal, not this that here they serve.
THAT which thinks not through the power of Mind,
THAT through whose power the Mind thinks thoughts :
TH AT verily know thou as the Eternal, not this that here they
serve.
* This Upanishad (and certain others of those great Sanscrit Scriptures)
long ante-dates the Aryan invasion of India. From collateral evidences which
I have had an opportunity of examining I have little doubt but that it is a
fragment of one of the higher invocatory rituals used by the Priest-Kings of the
lost Mediterranean world.
The existing Upanishads are obviously but disconnected fragments.
P. G. B.
T H E P H I L O S O P H I C F O U N D A T I O N 33
THAT which sees not through the power of the eye,
THAT through whose power the eye sees sights : THAT verily
know thou as the Eternal, not this that here they serve.
THAT which hears not through the power of hearing,
THAT through whose power sound is heard here : THAT
verily know thou as the Eternal, not this that here they serve.
THAT which lives not through the power of the Life-
breath, THAT through whose power all Life breathes here:
THAT verily know thou as the Eternal, not this that here
they serve.
C
L e sso n II
THE PRACTICAL FOUNDATION
M a n y a man has essayed the steep ascent from the plain of the
personal human life to the summit of the lofty peak where
remote and dim shine the GOLDEN GATES that bar the
OCCULT WAY, and has failed and fallen, not because the
Ladder by which he climbed was unsound in itself, but because
the ground whereupon it rested was unprepared and unstable.
It is taught that the PATH lies in SELF. The Ladder by which
the Aspirant ascends is therefore in Self, and the ground upon
which it stands is in self.*
For the Adventurer there is no certainty or safety but that
which he secures for himself by tests carefully planned and
patiently applied to the Ladder and to its resting-place, both.
Self-testing may with much truth be said to be the beginning
and the continuance of progress upon the O CCULT WAY.
O f end it has none, for the Selfthat tests selfgrows and changes
as it labours, and changes that upon which it labours ; and the
SELF that tests Self is infinite and its works eternal.
For you, the Learner, preparing to take your first upward
step, self-testing takes the form of self-questioning. Commence
by putting to yourself the questions I shall presently suggest,
and to them, in the light of the comments that accompany
them, give answers that are true to the extent that truth is
known to you. Do not rest satisfied with such answers as I may
supply, but insist on receiving your own from within yourself.
Accept no answer, whether your own or that of another, as
final, for ultimate truth cannot be known to you, nor to any
man however wise. This, if you are a true Seeker and honest
with yourself, you will quickly discover, for whatever answer
you evoke by your self-questioning will when formulated
* See Glossary.— O.
34
T H E P R A C T I C A L F O U N D A T I O N 35
become another question, and the answer to that another,
and so on to no end. In making this discovery you will be
facing the first great trial of the many you must meet and
overcome before you pass the GATES OF GOLD and become
an accepted Disciple, for a sense of utter ignorance will
descend upon you, and a conviction that truth is unattainable
and effort foolish may seize you and fling you into a spiritual
maelstrom that will hold you helpless throughout this fife.
Against this foe be on guard, constantly strengthening yourself
by the reminder that ignorance realized is no enemy, but a
friend— a teacher whose counsel is most necessary to enable
you to take the first step in true learning.
Self-examination.
At this early stage of the lessons I do not advise definite
study of Occult Scriptures, but I suggest that you have by you
the following manuals, and when doubts and difficulties
assail you, open one of them at random and ponder over the
first sentences that meet your eye :
The Bhagavad Gita (Charles Johnston’s version).
Light on the Path.
The Voice of the Silence.
The Sayings of the Ancient One.
Help of an unexpected nature comes often through this
practice.
Turn now to consideration of the questions and my com­
ments :
QJJESTION I. Do I accept asfact that the Being of Man is
perfectable ?
COMMENT. If you cannot with truth answer YES to this
question it will show that you lack the philosophic foundation
that Lesson I is meant to provide, and are not yet quite ready
to begin the practical work. Study Lesson I again, and then
ask yourself to what end you aspire, if you do not aspire to
become perfect even as LIFE itself is perfect. To that question
only one true answer is possible, namely : “ To the endthat I gain
ower andknowledge not shared by others.”
Ambition such as this lurking within you will form an
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
36
insuperable barrier to true progress, and the importance of the
test that compels the hidden demon to disclose himself may
therefore be appreciated. Enemies of his nature live and
flourish only in darkness ; they shrink and die when dragged
forth into the Light.
Should the question bring forth YES as answer, do not rest
content. Test its truth by further questions. What do you mean
when you assert that you believe your Being to be perfectable ?
Is your belief similar to that of the average man when he
declares that he believes in his own immortality or in the
dogmas of his Church, merely a pious hope or an unreasoning
faith ? If so it is not the kind which an Aspirant to Discipleship
should entertain. Real belief, or FAITH, will make your
essential perfectability a truth to you as axiomatic as that the
whole is greater than any of its parts. Without this FAITH
attempt no forward step, for to do so will be but to enter a fog
of doubt. Doubt is an enemy that not merely hinders progress,
but often turns his victims into dark and profitless by-paths.
Having found an acceptable answer, ask next :
QJJESTIONII. With what motive do I seek the PATH?
COMMENT. Eastern teachers regard this question as
absolutely fundamental, and not until it is answered rightly
and understandingly do they consent to advance the would-be
Disciple a single step. Here it is placed second, for Question I
starts a train of thought that leads towards understanding of it,
and makes a right answer possible more quickly than would
otherwise be the case. It is possible, and indeed probable, that
the work already done will take you immediately to an answer
that is correct in essence, thus :
“/ desire to attainperfection” ;
but left in that form it is by no means sufficient, for its true
significance may be altogether misunderstood. It serves a
purpose in provoking another question that will bring under­
standing nearer :
QJJESTION III. What is perfection ?
COMMENT. Study of Lesson I together with reading of
other occult Scriptures will bring forth the ready answer :
“ Perfection is union with DIVINE BEING.”
QJJESTION IV. How is DIVINE UNION achieved?
T H E P R A C T I C A L F O U N D A T I O N 37
Answer : Byfollowing the OCCULT PATH.
QUESTION V. What is the PATH?
COMMENT. It is not likely at your present stage of pro­
gress that you can with clear understanding say what the
PATH is. I will give the answer therefore in the following
form, as a key that may open the mind to a right comprehension
of this much misused and misconceived Occult term :
The PATH is LIFE, EVERBECOMING.
COMMENT. At this point it may be well to turn back once
more to Lesson I and study again all said there concerning
LIFE and its one attribute, EVERBECOMING. From that
and from study of Man, the symbol of LIFE, you may come
to understand that in the human Being there is also an Ever-
becoming that corresponds, or rather that should correspond,
with that of the DIVINE TRINITY. Actually, as man is, his
Becoming is not in true correspondence with the DIVINE
ATTRIBUTE, for all the aspects of his conscious Being pass
into identification with the tiny spark he calls Self, not into the
infinite flame of the one true SELF, as do all other aspects of
life.
The PATH is the EDEN of the symbolic Mystery drama
of which fragments survive in the Book of Genesis. Man before
the FALL was an unselfconscious Being, and lived and moved,
as do all such Beings, with the EVERBECOMING of LIFE.
Then in the GARDEN the Serpent— the symbol of the Power
of Evolution, the analogue of ENERGY that draws CON­
SCIOUSNESS into and withdraws it again from its negative
aspect, SUBSTANCE— lifted up his head, and to Adam,
unconscious man, through Eve, his negative aspect, brought
the Apple of Knowledge. With eating of that fruit came the
FALL, for Adam became aware that he lived, but perceiving
of his Being, as yet only the Shadow that clung to earth, made
the tiny ray of Consciousness that cast it before him the Sun and
Centre of his whole system. Thus alone of all beings man is an
outcast self-exiled from EDEN, a wanderer from the PATH,
and so must he remain until, again through the Woman, the
SAVIOUR comes to earth, and takes him by the hand and
leads him homeward. That SAVIOUR is Consciousness of
a Self that is spiritual and knows no separation from the
38 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
infinite SELF that is LIFE. When the Saviour is bom and
recognized by man, man ceases to be a wanderer and becomes,
now in full consciousness, once more a part of the eternal
EVERBECOMING.
Through study and thought, to which my comments are
merely suggestive stimulants, there should come to you in due
time an answer to the all-important question : “ With what
motive do I seek the PATH ?” And this may be :
“ Idesire to be the PATH,”
OR, with greater clarity :
“/ desire to be EVERBECOMING.”
In such being is the true UNION that Masters of the
Sacred Science know, and all true Adepts and Disciples con­
stantly seek : a ceaseless, eternal activity in conscious identi­
fication with the EVERBECOMING, the eternal ceaseless
MOTION, the one attribute of LIFE which is itself, not in any
endless rest in Nirvana, nor passive bliss in the bosom of God.
An intellectual understanding of the foregoing exposition
and its implications is all that you who are not yet a Disciple
can look to gain. As an achievement it is important, but it
should not be overestimated nor regarded as anything more
than a step. Intellect is a most necessary instrument, and
should be utilized to the full, but it cannot give you the Con­
sciousness of the Disciple. It can lead you to see and to know
the Path of the Neophyte, but can give no vision of the true
PATH, for the GATES OF GOLD stand high above the
World of Mind on planes towards which you may aspire but
to which as yet you cannot rise.
The Power that Moves.
Having learned the nature of the task you have chosen
and seen in what direction your field of action lies, you have
possessed yourself of the analogues of two of the Elements of
LIFE— CONSCIOUSNESS, and SUBSTANCE, its negative.
To enable you to move to your task you have now to possess
yourself of a true analogue of the third Element, ENERGY,
and that is the Power of Interest. None will deny that without
interest it is impossible to become absorbed in a work, as one
must if one would do it well, and with profit to oneself and
T H E P R A C T I C A L F O U N D A T I O N 39
others, and if that is true of an ordinary task it is incomparably
more true of one such as this, which is the greatest that a man
can undertake. Therefore examine yourself most closely before
you attempt to move, and make certain that you have that
Interest in the work which the work merits.
At this suggestion you may, possibly, or even probably,
cavil. The answers given to the questions already put prove,
you may think, that you have real interest in the work. You
may argue that you would not be studying these lessons at all
unless profoundly interested ; yet do not be too confident. It is
by no means easy to know by what power one is moved. Self­
testing should never cease, and should be carried out through
every available avenue of approach to knowledge of your
Being. It is easy to be drawn to this study by interest that is by
no means interest in the actual work itself, but is rather desire
for reward of one kind or another, that may, you conceive,
result from the effort. Should this be so in your case your
efforts will not advance you towards the true PATH, but will
take you still farther astray into some profitless parody of it,
for you will be led by a false self, as almost all men are, and
not by your Higher Self, the true analogue of the one supreme
SELF. O f lesser selves active in your Being the number is
legion, and each struggles incessantly to preserve its own
existence and strengthen itself by drawing into its service the
vitalizing Power of Interest. From these enslaving usurpers
no escape is possible except through unremitting self-observa­
tion and self-questioning. (A)
Initially it is not likely that your motive power will be
interest in or love of the actual work. This is natural and
inevitable, for of its nature you have as yet no real conscious
knowledge. The best you may hope to learn of yourself is that
you are moved by a thirst for knowledge ; but if you love
knowledge for its own sake you are not far astray. If you seek
knowledge because of the distinction and power its possession
confers you are the slave of a lower self and cannot move until
you have gained freedom.
O f the host of illusions that befog the average man there is
none greater than that which bids him believe that he is a
single individuality living and moving under the rule of a
40 T H E O C C D L T W A Y
single Self. The opposite is the truth. Far from being a true
self-directing entity he is really a disorderly army. He has no
stable selfhood, but is moved by whatever one of an almost
infinite number ofselves succeeds for the moment in dominating
its fellows by virtue of conditions that favour it. He thinks
fondly that he has Free Will, but in truth he has nothing of
the kind, not that any extra-cosmic Power compels him, but
that the army which is his Being knows no commander. Should
you doubt the truth of my words and think that you have
Free will try to initiate a course of action and hold it un-
deviatingly to an end preordained. You will find if you care­
fully watch your reactions that you have attempted the
impossible. You will hardly have selected your course when the
self that has chosen becomes the object of attack by a host of
other selves, each seeking dominance for itself. True you may,
with many stumbles and by devious ways, ultimately struggle
through to your goal, but to succeed in this does not mean that
you have exhibited True-willed action, for you have held no
direct course. To holda direct course, not toreach an end, is thehall­
mark of Free Will. Great conquerors and world leaders who
seem to march over all obstacles straight to their ends are often
cited in support of the contention that man has Free Will.
The argument is unsound and shows lack of understanding of
the subject. Those men in gaining their ends exhibit Strong
Will, not Free Will, just as you. may do in gaining yours, but
between Strong Will and Free Will there is a profound
difference. Strong Will is not will at all, but the manifestation
of an abnormally developed separate self—in other words a
desire. “ Strong Will achieves conquest through conflict, but Free Will
remains atpeace in astrongholdthat cannot be assailed.” Strong Will
is the manifestation of a purely separate self. Free Will is the
manifestation of a Self united in harmony with the Laws of
LIFE. Consider the effortless inevitability of unconscious
elemental activity : in it Free Will manifests, though the
manifestation is not that of a conscious Being ; but imagine a
man self-consciously identified with LIFE, and in elemental
activity you will see true analogues of his actions. Upon this
much misunderstood subject some further light will be thrown
in later lessons.
T H E P R A C T I C A L F O U N D A T I O N 41
The GREAT WORK, attainment of conscious union with
LIFE, EVERBECOMING, entails transformation of the
turbulent hosts of the lower selfhood into a disciplined army
wholly subservient to the Higher Self of man, the witness and
symbol of the one true SELF. It begins with the first question
which the Higher Being of the Aspirant addresses to the lower,
and it ends in what was called by the Masters of old the state
of SIM PLICITY— a state which is symbolized in the formula :
“ I AM /” . In that SIMPLE state Self has identified itselfwith
SELF, and knows itself in its single attribute, EVER-
BECOMING, the Noumenon of a disciplined Being, once a
disorderly lower selfhood.
Early Difficulties.
How to be sure that the Watching Self of the moment is
the true Higher Self and not a masquerader is a problem that
troubles many Learners. To it there can be but one answer :
there is no certainty in all the universe outside the HIGHEST SELF.
Do not look for certainty, for to do so is to work for reward and
to live in Time, not in Eternity. Not while you are yet a
Neophyte, not until you are the Master of Wisdom standing
for a moment upon the Last Threshold, your human cycle all
behind you, will you have certainty, and then certainty only
of all things human, not of all things DIVINE. O f the nature
of that certainty no man can tell, yet you have with you always
a witness and symbol of it, for there is no moment when you
do not stand at the close of one cycle of experience and upon
the threshold of another. O f what you have wholly experienced
you have certainty, for all that was real in it has been assimi­
lated into your Being and become a part of it. O f that which
you are, of your Being, you are certain. There are some who
will argue against this assertion and say that they are not
certain of anything, but that is merely because they are
thinking in intellectual and personal terms and not under­
standing what certainty means. It is Self that gives certainty,
not the instrument through which Self expresses itself. You
cannot say “ I AM ” without expressing certainty. It is when
the intellectual consciousness which is infinitely less compre­
hending than the Self tries to understand the Being that
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
42
uncertainty appears. How can the part have knowledge of the
whole ? Does the mind question its own existence ? No, it
questions only that which is not itself. O f that which I AM, I
am certain and ask no question. O f that which I am not I
have no certainty, and it I may question. But question not for
the sake of certainty, for to desire it is to desire possessions;
the Disciple seeks not to possess but to BE.
The Watching Self of the moment is never the true SELF,
for SELF is LIFE, which is but is not manifest. The Watching
Self is but a gleam, for the moment of its dawning, the witness
and'symbol of LIFE which is infinite LIGHT, but passing
instantly, as it becomes active, into a shadow, a phase of the
one attribute, the EVERBECOMING. As such it becomes
immediately subject to observation and question by another
and deeper Self; and from this understanding has arisen the
ancient Hermetic KEY to occult progress, which may be
rendered thus :
“EXAMINE THE EXAMINER, WATCH THE
WATCHER, JUDGE THE JUDGE.”
Let profit and interest be but found in this process of
continuous self-examination and self-watchfulness, and the
foolishness of seeking certainty or any fixed results will become
evident. The Hermetic K E Y truly and diligently applied will
unlock every door that bars the way of the Learner, but much
work must be done and many difficulties overcome before true
skill in its use is acquired.
To deal in detail with all obstacles likely to confront you
while taking your earlier steps is wholly impossible, for their
number is legion ; but one or two prevalent types may be
considered to illustrate how all may be conquered. Few believe
that danger of any kind may accompany expansion of con­
sciousness, for few understand that thoughts and feelings are
active beings, living selves, each and all intent upon ruling the
Being and holding captive the Higher Selfthat would withdraw
from their toils into union with LIFE. No enemies, no prisons,
no snares appear to the uninstructed man to exist within him,
because he is a blind slave, living in a prison, and moving, when
he moves at all, but from one cage to another. But all this
changes with his first effort to move in conscious freedom. At
T H E P R A C T I C A L F O U N D A T I O N 43
the first question which a Higher Self addresses to a lower the
enemy discloses himself and makes the Questioner the object of
attack. The assault may come in any one of a multitude offorms,
but the examples I shall now give will show how all may be met.
(1) . Let it be supposed that a certain order of thoughts and
feelings— really a hierarchy of lesser selves— constantly moves
the Being into ways and actions that are narrow and un­
profitable. At last your Higher Selfwakes from its lethargy and
sees these lower beings as they are, and marks the ends towards
which they move. For a moment it stands free of its prison and
beyond the reach of its gaolers, but only for a moment. Upon
it with swiftness its enemies launch an attack, an assault that
in consciousness assumes the unlooked-for shape of a swarm of
excuses for the deeds of the foe. Often, as doubtless experience
has already taught you, semi-consciously at least, the escapee
is overwhelmed by these excuses and taken captive once more,
unless, as you now are, he has been forewarned by a more
experienced guide. Yet even though on guard and braced
against the wiles of the enemy you will have no certainty of
continued freedom, for to stand firm and shatter the first
attack is but to invite another of more subtle nature. Strange
and unexpected are the shapes which the legions of the lower
selfhood may assume, and one that may insidiously ensnare you
is that offear andhatred; not fear and hatred of external things
but of what you are wont to call yourself. Often a man over­
comes, as he thinks, a low desire, only to become obsessed by
fear and hatred of the self that manifested in it. His state is not
improved, but rather worse than before, for fear and hatred
hold him even more closely identified with his lower being
than does the manifestation of that Being which he imagines
he hates. . . . To fear and hate a lower self may perhaps be
right for one who knows no consciousness but the personal,
but it is wholly wrong for the Learner who has begun to move
on the O CCULT WAY. Think of no being, whether a fellow
man or an aspect of your own selfhood, as either friend or foe.
Think of each and all as teachers— as servants that bring you
experience, the food upon which your real Being nourishes its
growth.
(2) . When all enemies appear to have been defeated and
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
44
scattered, and the Self stands contemplating its victory, be
prepared, for the foe in his most subtle and dangerous disguise
is creeping upon you unseen. Without warning, without
knowledge on your part that you are attacked, you are seized
and bound, and the name ofyour captor is Spiritual Pride. Some
would call it Self-righteousness. It is a conviction that because
you have shaken off the toils of certain lower desires, feelings,
and thoughts, you have attained. To think you have attained is,
as you may realize, to throw yourself out of the calm embrace
of the EVERBECOMING into the fiery arms of a self that
dwells in separateness. This manifestation of the separate
selfhood that I call Pride is protean in his aspects. He is the
true King of the lower worlds. Not until his power is broken is
any true union with LIFE possible. It is not too much to say
that if you can maintain yourself watchful of and detached
from Pride you are doing all a Learner can do to hold the way
of Becoming. The Mystery drama of which we have parts in
the Mosaic books of the Old Testament teaches excellently the
lesson I would convey. In it Moses stands as the symbol of the
Higher Self of man, and the Children of Israel stand for his
Becoming Being. From Egypt, the purely material life, Moses
led Israel out into the Wilderness, which is the subjective,
mental-emotional realm. Through the Wilderness he guided
them, preserved them from dangers, defeated their enemies,
and conveyed to them the commands of “ God” . Across Jordan,
the Threshold of the Spiritual Life, into the Promised Land,
the O CCU LT PATH, he might have led them also, but Pride
seized him. Not in the name of the Lord, the symbol of LIFE,
did he strike the Rock and draw forth the Water, the Spiritual
Energy that preserves life in the desert but in prideful depen­
dence upon his own power. Therefore not he but another led
the host acrossJordan.
To defeat Pride in all his subtle guises live out unceasingly
the rule :
“ Examine the Examiner, watch the Watcher,judge the Judge.”
Habits.
Self-observation and self-examination, though at first
laborious, and in their results uncertain, quickly develop into
T H E P R A C T I C A L F O U N D A T I O N 45
an established habit, and as such become the best, indeed the
only sure means of controlling other habits, many of which
are wasteful of energy and obstructive of progress. Proper
understanding of habit is necessary, and I will now, therefore,
give the subject some brief consideration.
O f habits there are three main types : (a) Unconscious
habits that express themselves in automatic action, (b) Semi­
conscious habits that express themselves sometimes in auto­
matic or semi-automatic action, and sometimes with the
conscious knowledge of their possessor, (c) Conscious habits,
more often known as desires and passions, ofwhich the possessor
is fully aware, but which he cannot control or inhibit.
(a) Unconscious habits.
The whole life of the body apart from voluntary muscular
action is a standing example of unconscious habitual activity.
The body of man, and of every other living being, originated in
a simple protoplasmic cell, and the governing principle in that
cell is now the Self in man. By division and continuous sub­
division the cell evolved the fully developed body, and as the
process proceeded its governing principle transferred itself
from a body of one cell to another of two, thence to one offour,
and so on, leaving behind as it moved replicas ofitself, as it was,
to govern the cells and cell-groups it once controlled. Thus to
each it gave a habit which continues to manifest auto­
matically. Study this illustration with care, for it is an
important key to understanding. I will revert to it again in a
later lesson, and from another angle.
With the purely unconscious life of his Being the Neophyte
in Occultism should have no concern whatsoever. O f the
Beings (all aspects of SELF) active in the life of cell and organ
you should in no case attempt to become cognizant, nor
attempt in any way to interfere with their functions, for to do
so may easily lead to most disastrous disturbances— to disease,
insanity, even death, and worse. Works on Hatha Yoga written
by persons of no true knowledge, and read by students more
ignorant still, are fruitful causes of injury to foolish dabblers in
Occultism, injury often of an irreparable nature. That healing
can be effected and health maintained by centring the “will”
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
46
upon the body or upon any ofits organs is the grossest delusion.
The exact contrary is the truth ; for though results, which to
the limited mind of the ordinary man may seem beneficial, are
frequently produced by such means they are completely out­
weighed by injuries occasioned to other departments of Being
of a deeper and more subtle character ; and the more disastrous
of these may manifest only in another life. True Spiritual
Healing is done in a wholly opposite way, namely by with­
drawing conscious attention completely from the body and
uniting the Self with LIFE. That highly occult book the Bible,
when understood, makes this very clear. Whence came the
healing power of Jesus ? Through, it is said, the FAITH of
those heeded. That FAITH meant axiomatic acceptance of Him
as he was, as the human embodiment of a Being wholly
identified with LIFE itself, and made the acceptor a sharer in
the same union. That which is united with the DIVINE
TRIN ITY cannot be otherwise than perfect.
(b) Semi-conscious habits.
Under the heading of semi-conscious habits are included
activities of body and subjective nature of great variety. O f
these, though the great majority manifest automatically, all
may be brought into consciousness if attention is directed upon
them. Unlike habits of class (a), which, as explained, are
creations of the unconscious governing principle of primitive
Being, a true analogue of LIFE, semi-conscious habits are all
creations of the human, separate Self—aspects in which it wax
once active, but from which it has partially withdrawn, leaving
them to act semi-independently. Accordingly they may all be
cognized and controlled, modified or inhibited. They furnish
fields of experience for the Learner from which much that is
important may be gleaned.
Let us now, for better understanding of the subject, consider
a specific example of a semi-conscious habit. The power of
walking is such, though not usually so classed. While developing
in infancy the act of standing and moving absorbs the entire
conscious attention, but as growth proceeds the Self gradually
detaches itself from concern with it and leaves its control to a
less and less intimate aspect, until in adult life it is possible to
T H E P R A C T I C A L F O U N D A T I O N 47
walk with speed and certainty with thoughts wholly abstracted
from the act. Practically everyone has had experience of this,
and knows that the action was executed with perfect efficiency,
thereby receiving demonstration that a self capable of acting
without reference to the Ruling Self was in control.
The self that manifests in the power of walking is but one
of a large number that serve man in somewhat similar ways.
Consider the many habitual activities of civilized man which
are carried out semi-consdously, and often wholly uncon­
sciously, such as dressing and undressing, sitting in a chair,
writing, using knife and fork, and many others— all are acts,
which, like walking, once occupied the full attention of the
Self, but have been delegated to the control of an unobtrusive
aspect that now acts as servant of Self, and frees it for its own
higher work.
As a rule these servant selves work most efficiently when
least disturbed by attention from the Higher Self. One may,
for example, walk easily and safely along a rough and narrow
path with the mind full of abstract ideas, yet should attention
be directed upon placing the feet and holding the balance
progress becomes laboured and difficult. From facts such as
these the idea may arise that the Self rises or evolves into wider
and wider freedom upon stepping-stones, not exactly of “dead
selves” but upon living aspects that progressively relieve it of
the necessity of attending to duties that once engaged its whole
attention. Or, to put the idea in another way, that the Self, by
constantly educating aspects of itself to take its place, frees
itself to move upward into constantly widening spheres of
Being. The more perfectly does it educate them the more
perfectly do they function, and the more detached from and
unconscious of them does it become when it leaves them.
These various suggestions are thrown out not as items of
information but as stimuli to thought, as indeed is almost all
which I say in these lessons.
It often happens that lesser selves responsible for the
control of semi-conscious habitual activities perform their duties
inefficiently, for the reason that they have been imperfectly
trained by an imperfect Ruling Self. In such cases, instead of
helping the Ruler towards greater freedom, as they should,
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
48
they continually obstruct it. A bad habit of walking, for
example, may be developed in youth, and now in adult life
the feet shuffle and stumble, the body stoops, and laboured
progression distracts the Self from its own higher functions.
What is the remedy ? The Higher Selfin such case should turn,
actively cognize the offending servant, evict it from its office,
and assume control itself. It may then, with will and attention,
re-educate the body in the art of walking efficiently. Having
done so it may gradually withdraw its attention and delegate
control to an obedient lower aspect, which in due time may
become relatively independent.
Give careful study to the foregoing paragraph and try to
discern its implications, for in it is contained the secret of
ordering not merely obstructive habits but hampering lower
selves of every kind. Whether the lower selfdealt with manifests
in objective or in subjective activity the same technique
operates : first the Ruling Self clearly cognizes the offender,
which of course implies detachment from i t ; next it deliber­
ately descends and dispossesses the delinquent of its office,
thereby, in effect, annihilating it by absorbing it into itself;
finally, having trained another aspect to do the work efficiently,
it gradually withdraws and leaves the new deputy to work
without further interference. The more efficient a servant self
is the less does it obtrude its existence upon the attention of the
Master Self, until when perfect in its task it ceases to be known
at all, and though still acting individually becomes virtually
identical with its creator.
This and other expositions, as already pointed out, are not,
and are not intended to be, clearly informative, but partake
rather of the character of symbols. The implications of the
teachings just given are very far-reaching, and if grasped will
give understanding, not merely of the technique of self-control
but even of those abstruse Eastern doctrines Nirvana and
Avitchi. The real value to you of these lessons will not come
through any items of definite information they may supply, but
from the new growths that spring up in your mind through
your own attempts to interpret them. Teaching that is occult
in any real sense of the term can never be conveyed in clear-cut
phrases after the manner of a Guide Book. There is a natural
T H E P R A C T I C A L F O U N D A T I O N 49
law that compels that they be given only in the form of parable
or allegory. (B)
As for habits that are purely idle, and that do nothing but
waste energy, they may be dealt with exactly as described,
except that when deposed there is substituted for them an
aspect of Self that manifests in STILLNESS.
It sometimes happens that the Self having dispossessed a
lower aspect of its office, and partially educated a successor,
fails to withdraw, and to a large extent persists in identifying
itself with the aspect that should be deputizing for it. Thus it
not only neglects its own higher experiences but it usurps a
field from which a more primitive self may profit. A good
carriage of body, for example, is an excellent and helpful
attribute, but if it should absorb the attention of the Ruler of
the Being it becomes evil. Engrossed thus, in a form of activity
which should be delegated to a minor aspect of itself, the Self
becomes captive to Physical Pride. From this captivity the only
sure means of release comes through application of the Her­
metic KEY.
Subjective habits— that is habitual modes of thinking and
feeling of a semi-automatic character— are sometimes useful
servants of the Self, but when disorderly and disobedient, as
is usually the case, they are far more subtly obstructive than
bodily habits. To cognize them is far less easy that to cognize
those that manifest in objective activity, for their sphere is more
nearly adjacent to that of the Self, and it is, accordingly, more
likely to identify itself with them. Few men know real freedom
from the thrall of thought and feeling habits, and this applies
also to the Learner, though naturally he is less bound than is
the average man. Self-watchfulness alone does not always
suffice to free him, but fortunately there is always help at hand
for those ready to receive it.
When I assert that there is help at hand, let me not be
misunderstood. I do not imply that an Adept Teacher, or even
one such as I with a little elementary occult knowledge, stands
ever waiting to help all who need, or who may call for aid.
The help to which I refer is that which any intelligent man may
receive from a kindly critical or candidly critical friend, if only
he will accept and use it. Unfortunately, it is seldom that any,
D
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
50
not real learners, exhibit intelligence, and consequently they
must, as the world in general does, continue to suffer from
themselves.
What a friend, and sometimes a book, can do, if you give
heed to him or to it, is to call attention to such items in your
character as a tendency to argue hotly over trivialities, to
cling unreasonably to your private opinions, to seek dis­
tinction by being “ different” from others, to flee criticism by
appearing to agree with everyone, and characteristics of a
similar nature, too numerous to mention, all of which show
that you are enslaved by rebellious lower selves. Your helper
cannot fight your battles for you, but he can, if you co-operate
with him, help you to see your enslavers as they are, and to
that extent to detach yourself from their toils. For the rest you
must struggle and conquer or fail by virtue of your own
strength or lack of i t ; but victory must ultimately be yours if
only you remember and act upon the infallible “rule of
battle” : “Examine the Examiner, watch the Watcher, judge the
Judge”
Irrational tendencies such as those mentioned, and others
of a still more disturbing and obstructive nature, are very
often manifestations of primitive selves which, denied normal
expression in childhood or youth, owing to repressive home,
school, or social conditions, now seek outlet in these ways. It is
not too much to say that few civilized persons have any
rational basis for their ruling mental and emotional habits.
The little selves that so manifest are crushed and buried under
the weight of our unbalanced civilized conditions, and lacking
all normal means of expressing their energies find a substitute
in these devious fashions. Civilized humanity is really the slave
of legions of hidden demons, which, if only men could be led
to see and understand, would be known to be the main, if not
the only, cause of the senseless strife and fear of strife that fill
the world with unhappiness. These things should be understood
by the Aspirant, for the Prince of Peace, his Higher Self, must
sooner or later, and in the manner already described, descend
into the lower prisons, minister unto the imps of darkness by
uniting them with his own Being, and rise again, leaving bright
winged seraphs to fill the places they once held.
T H E P R A C T I C A L F O U N D A T I O N 51
Psycho-analysis.
Here it may occur to the Learner that a readier means of
dealing with obstructive subjective habits than that which I
advise should be the process called Psycho-analysis. A word on
this subject may therefore not be out of place. The philosophy
I outline and the theory of Psycho-analysis have obviously a
good deal in common, though the latter is expressed in very
different terms and lacks the universal basis which Occultism
has. Between the practices I recommend and those of Psycho­
analysis there are analogies also, but there the kinship between
the two systems ends. Occultism has no quarrel whatsoever
with Psycho-analysis, not because they may operate side by
side in the one field but because their fields of action are wholly
different. Occultism, in fact, really begins where Psycho­
analysis leaves off. The latter is a specific, and often very
effective, method of treating definite psychological diseases,
whereas Occultism is for those only whose psychic health is
already above the average. The opening lesson insists upon this,
but to re-emphasize it does no harm. The Psycho-analyst
has his analogue in the physician, and the Teacher ofOccultism
his in the trainer of athletes. The diseased person goes to the
healer to have something donefor him. The sound person goes
to an instructor to learn how best to do somethingfor himself
In Occultism there is nothing but disturbance and disap­
pointment for those who bring no gifts to the work. “ To him
who hath shall begiven, andfrom him who hath notshall be taken away
even that which he hath” seems a harsh saying, yet it expresses a
profound truth. Not the highest teacher, not the highest Being
in the universe, can bestow knowledge and power upon one
who lacks capacity to learn. The unfit who clamour to be
taught gain nothing when a teacher responds to their impor­
tunities ; on the contrary, they lose, for they forthwith anchor
themselves to his authority and lose whatever small power of
self-direction they had before. In what I teach there is nothing
new. Every teacher, high or low, down the ages has taught the
same. “Ask andye shall receive", it has been said, and it is a true
saying. The ignorant and unready ask, but the measure of
their request is their own narrow ignorance ; and it draws to
them not a saviour but an enslaver, not a guide but a misleader.
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
52
Beware of the teacher who assures you that the work and the
way are easy and pleasant : he is, if not a wilful deluder, a
blind leader of the blind. A true teacher, if importuned
prematurely, will try to help you, but he will do so by waking
you to knowledge ofthe dismaying obstacles that lurk concealed
within you and which must be overcome before you take a
single step towards knowledge.
Conscious habits.
All aspects of the character with which Self is consciously
and habitually identified are Conscious habits. Some are known
as virtues and some as vices, but to the Occultist all are good,
for, whether they give freedom to the Self or temporarily
enslave it, all furnish it with forms of experience without which
it could not progress. No such thing as positive vice or evil
exists in the lower selfhood, for it is made up of Beings that are
primitive and undeveloped, and whose activities are altogether
right and good relative to the sphere to which they belong. But
for the Higher Self to descend from its own loftier realm and
usurp the functions of a lesser self (as already described), and
remain as conscious lord of the lower legions, that indeed is
evil when done by a Self that has touched true knowledge, the
only real evil in the universe. But it is highest good if a Self
descends but to rise again, leaving a raised and obedient host
to labour as he has taught them ; it is indeed the labour of the
Christ that He did in Hell.
It is not my purpose to deal over-minutely with conscious
habits at this stage in the lessons, for the subject in one form or
another belongs to the whole series, and cannot be fully
understood until the lessons have all been studied. A broad
outline of the practical work is all this lesson is designed to give;
an outline which will, it is hoped, be gradually filled in and
made into a detailed picture by the study and work done upon
later lessons.
O f the habits that make up the prevailing character those
most apt to trouble the Learner are ruling passions and desires
that urge towards actions which to the Judging Self seem
unprofitable, if not actually evil. Often, to the beginner on
this Path, the hosts of common worldly desires that adhere to
T H E P R A C T I C A L F O U N D A T I O N 53
all assume the appearance of a crushing burden, and how to
lighten and bear it is his greatest problem. The KEY,
“ Examine the Examiner, watch the Watcher, judge the Judge” ,
if intelligently applied, will serve here, as elsewhere, and the
following example illustrates its use :
Should you become aware of the insistent call of a lower
self, in the form of a common worldly desire, proceed thus :
Call up from deeper realms of Being a Self more detached
than that which hears the call of desire and finds it irksome.
Let it be Judge of the judge, and let it ask the latter, Why are
you thus troubled and disapproving ? Does disapproval free you
from bondage to that more primitive Being which so insis­
tently struggles to express itself? It does not. On the contrary,
your attitude identifies you with the Being of which you dis­
approve, as you must know if you but pause to think, for you
call it You thus involve yourself in a struggle that will
end you know not how. You hold your gaoler in check, and
he holds you, and you swing in a barren circle, one about the
other, without either gaining the freedom he desires. That is a
state that cannot endure, for it is contrary to the Law of
Becoming. It must end, and in one of two ways : your shadow
may prove the stronger, and drag you in identification with
himself into the expression he craves. Gratified, he will relax
his grip for a period, and allow you once more sufficient
freedom to recognize your miserable slavery. Alternatively he
may leave what appears to be victory in your hands, and,
exhausted, sink into what seems sleep, or death ; but beware, for
he is neither dead nor sleeping ; when you are most confident
and least watchful he will arise, invade your own inner realm,
and in subtle and unsuspected form assail you far more terribly
than before, leaving your last state far worse than the
first.
Thus may the Judge of the judge speak in you, and if you
give him heed your afflicted Self will turn to him and merge
with him. With his wider and clearer vision you will achieve
truer comprehension of your clamorous lower aspect and of the
nature of its demands. It may prove itself to be no more than
an old established habit— a self which, though it has long since
worn out the sphere it moves in, nevertheless persists in
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
54
wandering idly in it in order to preserve its separate life. If so,
it is not difficult to deal with it, for now that you cognize it
clearly you may descend and dispossess it, and withdraw again
leaving STILLNESS in its place. But— and this is the more
likely— it may prove to be an aspect that has never yet had its
rightful expression, and that cannot while it lacks it be dis­
possessed and absorbed. The expression it demands is a right
and necessary form of experience without which your Becoming
cannot continue, and therefore you must grant it. This, living
as you now are, aloofand detached with theJudge of thejudge,
you can do with free will, and without any sense of being
dragged down and enslaved. A self that receives freedom only
at the will of the Higher Self is a servant, not a master. To
understand this is to hold the secret of Peace and Power. (C)
Conscious habits are sometimes called appetites, and the term
is not inapt, since they express desire for experience, which is
the food upon which real Being lives and grows. Like the
so-called physical appetites, these desires are sometimes true
indicators of the needs of the Being, and at other times are
false guides that urge, for the gratification of the self they
express, consumption of material that is not needed and
cannot be utilized. Patient self-watchfulness will always reveal
the true character of an appetite. Those that are false can be
dealt with as already described, always remembering in your
attempts at controlling and disciplining them that your efforts
must be preceded by the establishment of a thoroughly
detached attitude. Without this no good results can be
expected. But under the remote watchful eye of the Judge of
the judge all aspects of the separate selfhood such as those that
manifest in love of power, love of wealth, love of pleasure of
every kind, grow progressively less demanding and finally
vanish, or are transmuted into higher analogues of themselves.
In transmutation there is a certain danger that should be
noted, for the higher analogue of a primitive desire may well
prove a greater enslaver than its prototype, should self-
satisfaction in it be permitted to develop. To lose love of a
mundane pleasure only to replace it by a more enthralling love
for a more aesthetic form of pleasure is not a gain but a loss.
Hereby the complete fallacy of the common advice, “Destroy
T H E P R A C T I C A L F O U N D A T I O N 55
a bad habit by replacing it by a good” , is revealed. Cultivate no
habit but the habit of using the KEY.
Certain appetities, just as is the case with unconscious
habits, can never, while we wear human forms, be totally
absorbed, for they express aspects of the Being whose services
are indispensable to existence and progress. Appetite for food,
drink, and sex experience are the more obvious examples of
these, but it should be considered that each has its analogues
in deeper Being also. None of these can be eliminated, but all
grow less demanding under the eye of the Judge of the judge.
Attempts to control, discipline, or starve them into obedience
by refusing to gratify them are worse than useless, for all that
can be effected in this way is to divert their energies into deeper
Being, and give their hidden analogues an abnormal and
sinister power. To regard them as evil, as so many good
persons—especially nominal occultists— do, is to demonstrate
one’s bondage to them.
Sex and the sex appetite, which is so universally regarded as
a problem, is no problem, but a deeply significant symbol to the
Occultist, and so, indeed, though perhaps in slightly lesser
degree, are all other appetites. Sex is treated somewhat more
definitely in a later lesson, but its full significance cannot be
revealed in elementary instructions to a Learner.
Virtue and Vice.
Take care when first you begin to survey Life, and your own
Being, that you do not fall into the error of labelling their
multitudinous manifestations as virtues and vices. These things
are in themselves neither good nor evil, but all can be made
agents of good or of evil according to the way in which they
are used by the Higher Self. Each is a step, and like a step in
any ladder may be used as a means of either ascent or of
descent. The whole Being of man is a phase of the EVER-
BECOMING of LIFE, a step in the ladder of universal ascent.
That great occult Scripture, Light on the Path, says :
“ The vices of men become steps in the ladder, one by one as
they are surmounted. The virtues of men are steps . . . but though
they create afair atmosphere and a happyfuture they are useless if
they stand alone.”
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
56
The true significance of those words has eluded multitudes
who have read them. Many indeed, even some who would
claim the name of Occultist, have condemned them, and other
sayings in the same book ; but you, the Learner, who have
begun to look upon life and who have studied this lesson, should
begin to recognize their truth. Virtue and vice as men under­
stand the terms are merely conditions that surround Self, that
it permits to hold it, to drag it down, or uses to enable it to rise.
Consider the following story of real life :
It concerns two brothers, sons of an old and honoured
English family, brought up in the traditional English way,
educated together in boyhood, together sent to the University,
the elder to study for the medical profession, the younger for
the Church. But there their paths separated. Within a few
months the younger had left the college and the country, and
had emigrated to Africa, where eventually he took up as his
permanent occupation the profession of Transport Rider in
the desert territories, a calling which is, perhaps, as rough,
wild, and adventurous as any on earth. . . . Those who follow
it have no home, no country, no laws— social, moral, or ethical
— but their own. Their standards would, in many ways, be
regarded with horror in peaceful England, but none the less
they are of a character with which only a man of outstanding
courage, honesty, and will could comply. In his line this young
man became a noted figure, admired by his fellows and
respected by those he served.
The elder brother followed the lines laid down for him.
He became a highly respected medical practitioner in his
native county, married well, brought up a family, became a
pillar of the Church, and in all ways what the world would call
a thoroughly successful and virtuous citizen.
For twenty years the elder remained ignorant of the where­
abouts and occupation of the younger, then chance brought
him knowledge of the truth. Horrified at what he imagined to
be the wastrel and reprobate life of one who bore his own
respected name, he conceived it his duty to go to Africa and
effect the rescue and reclamation of his brother. The sequel
was somewhat sad, but illuminating. Far from rescuing or
reclaiming the “ black sheep” , he himself, after a briefresidence,
T H E P R A C T I C A L F O U N D A T I O N 57
fell under the influence of that strange and, in some respects,
sinister land, and took to ways of living which self-respecting
men, either in England or in Africa, despise, and was ulti­
mately saved from his own weakness by the efforts of the man
he had come to rescue.
The moral of the story is not difficult to discern in the light
of the teachings given in this lesson. The younger brother
showed, from the first, a much more developed and powerful
individuality, or Self, than the elder, in that he chose deliberately
a course of his own in preference to drifting placidly with the
favouring stream of conditions; and he continued to exhibit
this power of individuality in Africa, by there mastering, and
not yielding to, adverse or seductive influences. His brother,
on the other hand, never was called upon to assert an inde­
pendent Selfhood. Throughout his life he manifested exactly
those qualities his home conditions were expressly designed to
evoke. With all his appearance of virtue and respectability he
was never more than a distinguished landmark in his
surroundings, and never had any more real virtue and
individuality than has a stately oak in a peaceful park;
all this he fully demonstrated by his reactions to African
conditions.
Here it may be well to point out to those not true learners
who may read these lessons that I do not imply that a man
should deliberately defy custom and convention in order to
assert his individuality. That is neither the teaching nor the
moral of the story. . . .
I tell the story simply to show that Life, if one will but
open one’s eyes and look upon it, or rather within it, can teach
more than can many books. It is always and everywhere before us
asking us to learn, yet men, it would appear, prefer ignorance,
and pass it by with eyes close-shut. Not so the Learner ; he has
chosen to see and to read ; but his task is one that daunts many,
for to learn to see in a world wherein all are blind is to quit
companionship for loneliness.
Before the eyes can see they must be incapable of tears.
Before the ear can hear it must have lost its sensitiveness.
58 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
Before the voice can speak in the presence of the Masters
it must have lost its power to wound.
Before the soul can stand in the presence of the Masters
its feet must be washed in the blood of the heart.
(“The First Four Rules” : Light on the Path.)
(1) . Labour always like one who seeks a Royal Reward for
a task well done ; but find your reward in work continued and
never in work completed.
(2) . Rejoice if your lot is happy ; but if it is miserable
rejoice also :Joy and Sadness are your twin slaves joined from
birth, and they must serve you together or serve you not at all.
(3) . Love Life, for he is the Great teacher ; but love Death
also, for he is the other Self of Life, who alone can teach you
nothing.
(“The First Three Steps” : The Sayings ofthe Ancient One.)
Lesson III
THE TEN VIRTUES
Although in lessons given as these are much of the instruction
necessarily takes the form of information, the giving ofinforma­
tion is but one of the less important duties of a teacher.
Information is not Knowledge, but a means whereby Know­
ledge may be acquired. Knowledge is not WISDOM, but has
been called the Ladder to WISDOM, and WISDOM is the
goal of the Disciple.
The Ladder of Knowledge does not stand ready prepared
and erected for the use of the Neophyte : he has to fashion it
himselfwith pain and labour, and experience is the material with
which he builds. Facts and ideas that come to him from his
teacher, though knowledge to the teacher, are not so to him :
they are specialized fields of experience which if diligently
explored yield results which when assimilated become Know­
ledge, the Body of Real Being.
A true teacher of Occultism possesses Knowledge, and
must always speak with the authority that Knowledge confers,
for if he does not do so his words will not be winged with power,
and will fail to impress the minds of those that hear them, no
matter what hidden WISDOM they conceal. But the Learner
must not accept authoritative statements passively, as facts
not to be questioned, but with active appetite, as a hungry
person accepts food, knowing that it will satisfy him only when
eaten and digested. Information passively accepted is not
merely useless to the acceptor but a hampering burden, for it
adds to the load of illusions that weigh down the Aspirant the
further illusion that in it he has received knowledge. But
information rejected because contrary to existing ideas, because
difficult to assimilate, or because foreign to habitual trends of
thought, or for any other reason, is so much useful material
59
6o T H E O C C U L T W A Y
wantonly or neglectfully wasted. Study this ancient Key to
Wisdom :
“Nothing isfalse ; nothing is true; all things that exist are but
masks of Truth ; accept no thing ; reject no thing ; learnfrom study of
all / but above all learnfrom the Learner."
A true teacher is a director, a guide, an admonisher, and an
adjuster. He directs his pupil into profitable Fields of Ex­
perience and shows how best they may be explored. He warns
of dark places and snares in the way. From his own store of
Knowledge he supplies specialized forms of experience, as
correctives of errors and weaknesses, due to mal-assimilation of
other forms ; and this last is his most important duty. In­
formation is thus a remedial agent rather than a balanced food
for the growing Being, but to be effective it must be used, not
admired, stored away, and forgotten.
Other than the foregoing the teacher owes no duty towards
his pupil. The latter has to stand and walk, and recover if he
falls, according to the measure of his strength, and must not
look to another to save him effort. He has undertaken a task
that does not consist in getting easily and swiftly to the end of
a journey, but in learning to stand firmly, to walk steadily, and
ultimately to run at speed over a rugged and narrow path.
Occultism : the Science of Life.
That great teacher H. P. Blavatsky once defined True
Occultism as :
“ THE SCIENCE OF LIFE: THE ART OF LIVING."
No more than can the art of playing a musical instrument be
mastered by hearing the theory of music expounded and by
watching a musician play can the Art of Living be learned at
second hand. The Laws of Life may be expounded by a
teacher as the theory of music may be, but not until they are
practically applied by the Learner can they have a living
meaning for him.
Having established a firm basis from whence to make his
effort through diligently applying the advice given in Lesson II,
the Aspirant should now begin more definite and concrete
attempts to live according to the Laws of Life. To live according
to those laws is to live virtuously, and for that reason it was laid
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 6l
down of old by the Wise Men of the East that the practice of
certain cardinal Virtues must precede any rousing of those
hidden powers of Being controlled by the Adept, use of which
makes the man more than man. The Virtues said to distinguish
the true Disciple are enumerated at great length in that
inspired Eastern Scripture the Bhagavad Gita, but for a
Neophyte to attempt to live out each of these would complicate
his task unnecessarily ; therefore, for practical purposes, they
are usually synthesized into a series often, of which number the
second five are regarded rather as complements of the first
than as Virtues complete in themselves, thus :
(a) , (i) Harmlessness; (2) Truthfulness; (3) Justice;
(4) Purity ; (5) Self-reliance.
(b) . (6) Charity ; (7) Contentment; (8) Discrimination ;
(9) Simplicity ; (10) Self-surrender.
In practising the first five Virtues (a) the Neophyte is
considered symbolically to have raised his left foot from the
ground and placed it upon the first step of the Ladder of
ascent to the Golden Gates of the Disciple’s PATH. In
practising the second five (b) he is considered to have raised his
right foot and brought it up to join the other, and thus to have
taken one full step upward above his common humanity. How
to exercise consciousness in living out those Virtues is what the
present lesson is designed to teach.
To live is to BE. To live virtuously is to BE virtuous. “Am
I virtuous ? Can I be virtuous ?” These among many other
questions you, the Learner, have now to ask yourself. To them
you are required to give true answers, founded not on belief
but on knowledge gained through direct experience. It is easy
to say, “ I am harmless ; I would not hurt a living thing ; I
respect truth above all things ; I love justice and hate in­
justice” , and so on. Such are answers which all well-meaning
persons would give, but they must not satisfy the Aspirant to
Discipleship. Never should he rely upon untested belief, least
of all upon belief concerning his own qualities. Excellent in­
tentions he may have, as have multitudes who are far from the
WAY, but in no way can they help him in his quest, and may
easily do the reverse. There is, as in many such, profound truth
in the old homely saying : “ The road to Hell is paved with good
62 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
intentionsHell is but a name for darkness and ignorance ; and
it is through neglect of, or refusal to profit from, the experience
that life exists to provide that darkness and ignorance come.
Knowledge through experience has therefore to be sought, for
without it you cannot say with truth whether you are virtuous
or vicious. (A)
Imagination and its use.
It may be thought that if dependence has to be placed
solely upon what experience may bring, the life-span of the
average man is far too short to permit of much being added
to the stock of knowledge possessed by him as a birthright.
That would be true were he limited to experience of a purely
concrete, objective nature. The highly artificial conditions that
surround civilized man give him little or no opportunity of
becoming aware of the hidden forces or selves that live within
him, and to exchange those conditions for others calculated to
evoke such knowledge is seldom within his power. Fortunately
for the Learner, he is by no means dependent upon purely
objective experience. He has an instrument within his own
Being that can if rightly used give him all he needs for his
instruction. That instrument is Imagination. What Imagination
actually is I shall not discuss in this lesson, but if necessary it
may be considered in later lessons. All that now concerns the
Learner is to know that it exists, and is a faculty that enables
the mind to form pictures of events and conditions that may
have in the present or the future, or may have had in the past,
an actual or potential existence. Furthermore, Imagination
allows the Self to enter into association with those mental
images, and thus to have experiences as real as, and even more
profitable than, any obtainable in objective life.
Imagination is feeble and ill-controlled in average man,
which is only to say that he has little vision of and command of
the legions of the lower selfhood, but in the advanced Occultist
it becomes a powerful instrument that makes him practically
independent of objective experience. By its aid he may in a
few years, often in a few days or even hours, acquire knowledge
that the objective experiences of many lives could not give.
A warning to the inexperienced Learner is here necessary.
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 63
No attempt to develop Imagination for its own sake should
ever be made, for to do so will be but to build a prison for the
Self. There are teachers who, doubtless believing in their own
knowledge, teach practices designed to develop the power of
Imagination, but in truth they are either quite ignorant of
the nature and aims of true Occultism or their own aims are
different. The control which the practices they teach produces
over the power of Imagination is merely an appearance and
not real control at all. What actually results from the practices
is that the Self acquires some little power of moving about
within the vast engine-room of the lower selfhood, and like a
child amuses itself by watching the working of the machinery
from different points of vantage ; it does not become free of
its prison. In other, though perhaps not more revealing, words,
Self becomes more and more identified with Imagination by the
practices against which I warn, whereas to detach Self from
Imagination and from all other instruments of experience is
in all cases the aim of the true Occultist. All the powers that
are ever needed or that ever can be used by the growing Self
are already at its disposal, and to command and use them is
its task, not to strengthen them nor yet to evoke others. The
right to invoke and evoke power will come in later stages of
progress, but it is a right that has to be earned by first setting
the Self free from the thrall of the Powers of the Separate Life.
The exercises now to be recommended, which form the more
concrete work of the present lesson, call for the use of Imagina­
tion, but of such Imagination only as you have normally at
your disposal, and which in fact you already use whenever you
attempt to picture your actions in, and your reactions to, a
future or a problematic set of circumstances. Call up a mental
picture of any situation such as you conceive may confront you
in actual life, imagine yourself involved in it, and strive while
living through it to manifest in action and attitude one or more
or all of the Ten Virtues. Three examples of hypothetical
situations are given below. The first calls for exhibition of the
Virtue of Harmlessness, the second for that of Truthfulness, and
the third for that of Justice. Before reading my comments,
which come later, conceive yourself the actor in each case, and
decide as best you can how you may manifest most fully the
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
64
Virtue or Virtues called for by the conditions. Make a special
note of such reactions to the conditions you conjure up, as you
may happen to experience in thought and feeling.
(1) The Problem of Harmlessness.
You are a man in the prime of life, in a well-paid position,
married, and with a younger sister dependent upon you.
Suddenly your country is plunged into war and threatened
with invasion by a powerful neighbour. Universal military
service is proclaimed and you are called to serve as a soldier.
You are pacifist by nature and conviction, loathe the idea of
fighting and shedding blood, and determine to avoid serving
as a soldier if by any means it can be avoided. Consideration
reveals three possible methods of escape : (1) By claiming
exemption from fighting service on conscientious grounds, and
serving in some non-combatant capacity; (2) by boldly
defying the law and refusing to serve at all ; and (3) by fleeing
the country and taking refuge with your wife and sister in some
country not involved in the war.
As a Beginner upon the Occult Way, which, if any, of these
three courses should you take in order to exhibit Harmlessness
most fully ?
(2) The Problem of Truthfulness.
You are the agent of a firm that employs, in skilled and
unskilled occupations, several hundred men. A man whom
you know slightly, and whom I shall call Smith, calls at your
office and begs for help or work. You are sympathetic, being
aware that he is in need and has an ailing wife and a large
family, and you tell him to call upon you next day, when you
will furnish him with a recommendation that will procure him
employment with your firm. That evening, while walking
homeward through an empty street, you see a man dart from
the door of a grocer’s shop with several packages clutched
beneath his coat. Obviously a thief! He rushes past you and
you see his face : it is your acquaintance Smith ! To denounce
him to the shopkeeper is your first thought, then you remember
his sick wife and hungry children, hesitate, and pass on.
Coming to the end of the street you perceive that the fugitive
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 65
has been stopped by a policeman, who is questioning him
suspiciously. The thought occurs to you that it is your duty to
tell the officer what you witnessed, but after a moment’s
hesitation you again pass on your way. Near your home you
meet a detective-sergeant whom you know, and in the course
of conversation ask him what he knows of Smith. You are told
that he is a thoroughly unreliable character who has frequently
been convicted of petty theft. You go home perplexed by the
situation, dissatisfied with your own behaviour, and puzzled
how to act towards Smith should he demand that you fulfil
your promise and recommend your principals to employ him.
How have you manifested the Virtue of Truthfulness in
your interview with Smith, in your attitude and actions
towards the crime you witnessed, and how in the light of what
you have learned from the detective ought you now to act ?
Bear in mind that you are a devotee of the Virtues and have to
exhibit Harmlessness as well as Truthfulness.
(3) The Problem ofJustice.
You are asked by a philanthropic friend to undertake a
certain mission on his behalf, as he himself has reasons for
desiring not to be known as a principal in the matter. You
promise to do as he asks. He then gives you a sum of money
and asks you to distribute it equitably, and in strict proportion
to their respective needs and merits, between three men whom
I shall designate X, Y, and Z. He gives you their addresses and
you proceed to execute your task. Inquiry proves that X is a
prosperous tradesman and in all ways a most worthy man ;
Y is a poor, dissolute, sycophantic person, and a notorious
gossip ; and Z is a dubious if not a criminal character without
visible means of subsistence.
How, in the circumstances, should you act in order to
manifest most fully the Virtue ofJustice, bearing Harmlessness
and Truthfulness in mind also ?
Neither of these three problems is what is usually called
imaginary. The first presents a situation that might well
confront hundreds at any time and no doubt has confronted
E
66 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
many in the past. The second was related to me by a business
man as an actual experience he had had. The third was brought
to my notice by a young friend recently, and was alleged by him
to be an actual problem of his own. From this it may be
understood that the actual effort of imagination called for in
such exercises is not, except in a minor degree, one of visual­
izing special conditions, but is rather an attempt to live
through, mentally, an easily realizable situation, and mark what
thoughts and feelings result from the process. Beginners in the
practice are liable to err in two ways : first by inventing, or
trying to invent, original and complex situations, after the
fashion of a short-story plot, and second, by approaching the
problem as one does a riddle and striving (largely by guesswork)
to discover the right answer. That is not the way to profit from
the practice. There is no question of any “right” answer. It is
not a rule of conduct that you are, or should be, seeking, but
knowledge of the forces or selves that move you, and that are
excited into action by particular conditions. Later in the lesson,
when the real meaning of the Virtues is better understood, the
object to be gained by attempting to manifest them will be
explained. Select therefore for your practice situations that are
easy to realize, and for them it is not necessary to go far afield.
They abound, little noticed, in daily life, in the lives of friends,
in newspaper reports, and, in a somewhat lesser degree, in
books. Examples such as those I have given are not for daily
use, and are given only for illustrative purposes, for con­
sideration of them helps, in early stages of progress, to give the
necessary understanding of the law of virtuous living. When,
with use, the imagination has been developed into a powerful
instrument, new and complex experiences may be evolved, but
the time for this is not yet. Be in no haste to reach it. There is
truth in the old saying, “ The more haste, the less speed” , for haste
implies desire to attain, and the Disciple should not desire to
attain but only to BE. Deal with the experiences that lie close
about you with the instruments nearest to hand, and in due
time you will find wider fields and more powerful instruments
waiting to be utilized.
Why seek experience through imagination if all needed lies
close at hand ? it may well be asked. The answer is that, though
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 67
experience does surround us, we perceive but little of it and
utilize still less. Furthermore, even when perceived, it recurs
with insufficient frequency to permit of its being fully utilized
and assimilated into knowledge. When used as suggested,
imagination enables the Learner to recall any situation again
and again, and to explore it and re-explore it, each time with
added knowledge, until all it has to offer has been absorbed.
But, it may be objected, numbers of persons make a habit of
living over and over again through every experience, and gain
nothing from the process, but rather lose. All this is admittedly
true, but such persons are not using imagination. Rather are
they slaves to it, or to its lower analogue, fancy.
Comments.
I now turn to consideration of the problems propounded
and will assume that each is my own.
(1) The Problem of Harmlessness.
I begin by consideration of the three courses open to me,
alternative to serving as a fighting soldier and becoming guilty
of the crime of taking life. The first seems the most direct and
simple way of escape from my difficulty. I call on my imagin­
ation and picture my appeal to the authorities, and their
decision that I be given the option of serving either as a non-
combatant soldier or as a worker in a munition factory. Shall
I in either service succeed in manifesting Harmlessness ? As a
non-combatant, though I shall not hurt others with my own
hand, I shall give the fighting troops important help by
relieving them from duties which without such as I would
absorb much of their time and energy. As a munition worker,
also, I shall help to hurt and kill, by supplying the army with
instruments of slaughter. I ask myself if one who makes it easy
for a murderer to reach his victim, or who supplies him with a
deadly weapon, is in any way less guilty than the assassin
himself. I am unable to think that he is so. My first alternative
will therefore not enable me to escape harming my fellow men.
Will the second serve me better ? If I adopt it I make myself
a criminal in the eyes of the law and of my fellow countrymen,
and shall certainly suffer imprisonment. Unquestionably a
68 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
criminal, no matter what the motive for his crime, is an open
enemy of the State and of all law-abiding citizens. If imprisoned
for his offences he consumes food that loyal persons may need.
He keeps men who might be actively defending their country
occupied in the unprofitable task ofguarding him. He has made
himself essentially an aider and abettor of the enemy. Even less
than the first alternative will the second serve me in my desire
to be Harmless. There remains the third, and this at least
promises a certain means of continuing harmless, though one
I am loth to adopt. I spur my imagination and strive to
visualize the conditions it offers. If I adopt it I shall become
an exile from home and country, and shall leave the latter
weakened by the loss of one potential defender, and by that
much the more liable to injury at the hands of the enemy.
More pressingly important is the fact that I shall lose my
present means of livelihood, and consequently expose my wife
and sister to hardships and privations which they are less fit
to endure than I. Yet for these I compensate them by saving
them from the risks of war. At this latter thought I pause : am
I certain that my project will give them security ? Have I any
certainty that the country of my exile will remain neutral,
or, even if it should remain so, that it may not be invaded by
the enemy as a stepping-stone towards attack upon my own
country ? Might I not in the fancied security of my new home
wake to find invaders in my neighbourhood and my wife and
sister exposed to outrage ? Would my devotion to Harmlessness
prevent me from fighting and killing in defence of those dear
to me ? I cannot deceive myself into thinking that it would.
From this thought another emerges : is one who stands by and
permits injury to be done less guilty than one who does it ?
Through this thinking it becomes plain, past all doubt,
that there is no possible way in which Harmlessness can be
exhibited in the circumstances hypothesized. In every direction
its manifestation is strictly limited by conditions, and in none
that it is possible to conceive can it be, even remotely, perfect.
If I am to live out the true Virtue it is certain that I shall have
to find other means of doing so than by rushing about from one
set of conditions to another. To a Learner no understanding
more important than this is possible, although its full impli-
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 69
cations may not be perceived without much more thought and
study.
Harmlessness as a phenomenon, like all other things and
qualities in this manifested world, exhibits itselfin two aspects,
a positive aspect and a negative aspect; and it is only in the
interaction of, or in the contrast between, these opposing poles
that it is known at all. In its reality as VIRTUE it is not
manifest, for it is, as all things are, LIFE itself. LIFE alone is
perfect. In LIFE positives and negatives are equal and identical
in a noumenon that is equally both and neither. In manifest Life
positives and negatives (and all things) exhibit themselves
separately ; but as that manifestation is most perfect which is
nearest in condition to LIFE itself it follows that perfection in
the phenomenal world emerges when a balance is established
between the units of any of the “ Pairs of Opposites” . Man
therefore exhibits a Virtue most completely when he balances
its positive manifestation exactly with its negative. In his
world— his conditions— he becomes most Harmless when he
refrains equally from inflicting harm and from permitting harm
to be inflicted. To increase or decrease the relative intensity of
either the positive or the negative aspect of anything is not to
bring more of its reality into the world, but the contrary. All
that results from it is greater and greater unbalance, and in the
words of an ancient ritual : “ Unbalance on earth is the smoke of
the Fires of Chaos” .
The age-old error of imperfect man, from which the
Learner must free himself before he can compass a single
upward step, is the illusion that he can change the world while
he himself remains unchanged. He creates an appearance of
progress by pushing the centre of gravity of his conditions
farther and farther towards a particular pole of Being, and
calls the result of his efforts “ good” , yet with all his works he
has not in any way increased the sum total ofgood in the world
even as he understands that term.
In producing civilization man has brought about an extreme
and precarious unbalance of human and natural forces. I do
not contend that civilization is without value to the race; far
from i t ; for the Occultist knows that nothing that exists is
devoid of value. Civilization has an important use, though
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
70
unhappily few avail themselves of i t : it permits manifestation
of many gleams of the hidden Divinity of man, in the shape of
charity, justice, philanthropy, and their numerous derivitives,
and permits man to demonstrate to himself and to the world
his actual kinship with the Teachers and Saviours of all ages.
But it is not understood, even by the few who perceive those
gleams, that manifestations of actual good come only from high
aspects of man’s Being and not from his Centre, the Self. The
Self, the Focus of the Life of man, has not risen, but remains
half sleeping as it was before civilization was known. Conse­
quently the Being of man— of the whole of civilized humanity—
remains at the mercy of conditions that exist in an extreme
state of unstable equilibrium. Why does man fear war ? Not
merely the individual but the mass of civilized men live in fear
and horror of war. Would this fear exist if the Self, the Focus of
Life in man in general, were awake and active at the level of
those special conditions called civilization ? It would not, for
there would be nothing to fear : war would be impossible. The
fear that exists is felt not by the true Central Self but by its
(admittedly) loftier, though unfree and unstable, aspect, which
lives with the conditions it has made and called civilization. It
arises from Self’s recognition of the fact that opposing it is a
negative duplicate of itself, which for the time being it is able
to outbalance, but which may at any time rise into dominance
and swing it— the positive, “good” self—and its conditions into
ruin, if not into utter annihilation.
Is the imagery I use too “ Occult” ? To you in your present
stage it may be, but before these lessons end its meaning will
become evident. Let it be, however, considered that though
civilization gives man great powers for positive good, the
negative aspect of those powers makes for evil and destruction.
Another war on the scale of the last would surely destroy
civilization, and those that survived it would find peace and
stability in conditions of a semi-barbaric nature, exactly
suited in fact to the true stable consciousness centre in average
man. In intensifying his control of conditions man has for­
gotten his true Self, and, like the Prodigal, has left its house to
revel at distant phantom boards— banquets, which one breath
of the wind of destiny would change into tasteless husks.
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 71
True Virtue must not be sought in conditions, for to do so is
to admit your bondage to them. It is to be sought and found
only by living with the true Self, and in it ever withdrawing
towards the FREEDOM which is LIFE. From consideration
of this Problem of Harmlessness you may learn that in the
outer life of action there is no escape possible from the bondage
of the “pairs of opposites” . By them are all your ways and
works conditioned. In striving to be positively Harmless you
are in every instance forced to be negatively harmful, in that
your action permits injury to others. The real Virtue cannot
exhibit itself in action, for it is LIFE itself. Your conditions,
whatever they may be, should be regarded by you as fields of
experience existing for your instruction, and nothing more.
Therefore you should not flee from them, but should accept
them, and by experiencing them to the uttermost wear them
out and become free of them for ever. In The Bkagavad Gita,
Krishna, the personification of the highest SELF of this planet,
points out to his pupil, the Kshatriya Prince, that the natural
duty of a soldier is to fight, but tells him also to be indifferent
alike to victory and defeat. In this life the great Key to Virtue is
natural duty, for in concentration upon duty there is least
inclination towards any pole of manifestation. Admittedly,
for the Beginner to distinguish accurately where duty lies is
frequently difficult and needs experience. But that experience
may be gathered quickly through the work and study these
lessons provide, if only you approach them with an open mind
and concentrate upon the act of LEARNING.
Comments : The Problem of Truthfulness.
Having lived in imagination through the successive experi­
ences that go to constitute this Problem of Truthfulness, I am
forced to concede that in promising employment to a man of
whose character I knew nothing I acted neither rightly nor
wisely. My motives— compassion for the sufferings of the wife
and family and in a lesser degree for the man himself—were,
taken by themselves, very worthy, but in no way could they
absolve me of my promise to protect the interests of my princi­
pals, which tacitly or actually I gave them when I became their
agent. A dishonest employee might well cause them serious
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
72
loss and damage, and in committing them to employ Smith
I was unquestionably neglectful of my duty, and consequently
negatively untruthful.
Passing to the next phase of the problem I perceive that it
also involves the question of natural duty. Every citizen is
bound, morally at least, to aid in protecting the persons and
property of fellow citizens, and to assist the officers of the
law : whosoever claims the rights and privileges of citizenship
has given a tacit if not an actual promise of allegiance to the
State. Again, therefore, I was negatively untruthful in that
I failed to denounce Smith to the shopkeeper and policeman
both. I am likewise guilty of negative harmfulness towards
the shopkeeper in that I permitted the thief to escape with the
proceeds of his theft. Having now learned the character of
Smith and seen my past behaviour in a true light it remains
for me to determine what course to take when Smith calls
upon me to fulfil my promise to procure him employment.
Here it may be interesting and instructive to consider
a solution supplied by a Beginner to whom I propounded this
problem :
“ I should tell Smith when he calls upon me that I had
witnessed his crime, and had learned from the police what
character he bears. I should exact from him a promise of
future rectitude and a guarantee that he should, when
circumstances permit, anonymously compensate the grocer
for the goods stolen. In return for these pledges I should
fulfil my own promise and obtain him the employment he
desires. Privately I should resolve, should Smith break his
promises and act dishonestly, to compensate my principals
for any loss sustained at his hands. Thus I should rectify
my own previous neglect, and not merely that, but should
become the means of relieving the sufferings of Smith’s
family, and perhaps of enabling him to live an honest life
henceforward.’’
Probably human ingenuity could devise no better solution
of the problem than this, yet the fact remains that from the
Occult point of view it is no solution at all. I aim to live out as
perfectly as possible the Virtues of Truthfulness and Harm­
lessness, the reality of which exists in LIFE, above and beyond
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 73
all conditions, but this solution does not place me above
conditions, it leaves me as fully subject to them as I was before.
What gain is there in struggling from the meshes of one net
into those of another ? My friend’s ingenious solution depends
for success or failure upon a single and decidedly weak link,
Smith’s future honesty. If that gives way, and general experi­
ence suggests that it most probably will, what then is the
position? I may compensate my principals for any loss sus­
tained, but in doing so must necessarily reveal to them the
whole story, a thing that humanly speaking cannot but shake
their confidence in my business capacity, if not in my probity.
Whether they accept compensation from me or not, it does not
follow that they will refrain from prosecuting Smith. Should
they prosecute it will be impossible for me to avoid being called
as a witness, and the whole story will be revealed in court,
leaving the problem more complicated than before. Should
they not prosecute, at my request, then they and I become
conspirators guilty of the crime of compounding a felony.
The further the imagination takes me in pursuit ofa solution,
through creation of fresh conditions, the more obvious does it
become that Virtue is not to be found by such means. As
shown in my comments upon Harmlessness, true VIRTU E is
unmanifest, and is approached in manifestation only through
equipoise of its positive and negative phenomenal aspects.
That equipoise is always most certainly found through the
strictest concentration upon the duty at hand. DUTY IS THE
KEY TO VIRTUE.
The question of positive untruthfulness does not arise in
this problem. There are multitudes of truth-lovers who think
it admissible and indeed absolutely right to be negatively
untruthful. “Speak truth when compelled tospeak; if not keepsilence”
is an aphorism often quoted with approval, one which at first
sight seems to express wisdom, and indeed does so if it is wholly
understood, as it is not by those who quote it. Most true it is
right to be silent if not compelled to speak, but what constitutes
compulsion is the real question. In our problem, if questioned
by the policeman I must tell what I witnessed or be guilty of
positive untruth. Why, then, should I think silence justified
when I am not questioned ? The policeman is merely the objec-
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
74
tive symbol of the law— of the conditions that involve me, which
I have to experience fully in order to become free of them. To
accept them when they manifest objectively (as in the police­
man) and to evade them when they are only subjective merely
serves to perpetuate them, for it is acknowledgment of their
power over me. It places me and keeps me upon the plane of
the lower selfhood, of which conditions are merely the Macro-
cosmic manifestation, and holds me back from the freedom
of true Selfhood also called true Virtue. The lower selfhood
must live in itself, and by so living work out its life-cycle and
die ; I do but give it continued life by identifying myself with
it. The PATH is approached by living always in the Higher
Self that Ever withdraws, and thus leaving the lower legions
free to pursue their own paths to their own ends ; and the key
to success in this effort is always NATURAL DUTY. The
rule is summed up in the Scriptural aphorism : “ Whatever thy
handfindeth to do, do it with all thy might.”
Comments : The Problem ofJustice.
The importance, already demonstrated, of D UTY as a
natural guide to Virtue is in this Problem emphasized yet more
strongly. In daily life situations not voluntarily sought con­
stantly confront us, and together with those to which natural
duty calls are all-sufficient for our instruction. Notwithstanding
this we often go voluntarily, as we think, but in reality im­
pelled by disorderly selves in the shape of wandering desires
and uncontrolled thoughts, into spheres of activity not our
own, to our loss and bewilderment. O f this the problem now
under consideration is a direct example. The web of circum­
stance outlined should never have enmeshed me. No voice
of natural duty compels me to undertake the task proposed by
my philanthropic friend. No pledge to obey hisinstructions ought
ever to have been given by me while ignorant of their nature.
But having given the promise, does not devotion to the
Virtue of Truthfulness compel me to execute it ? To that
question I must give answer according to my wisdom, for I,
only, am a law unto myself. If I understand that the mani­
festation of any one Virtue is always conditioned by the others,
I shall know how to find an answer. Imagination should enable
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 75
me to visualize in some measure the situation that will result
from meticulous adherence to my promise, and to estimate
whether the conditions will permit of a true balance— of Harm­
lessness, Truthfulness, and Justice— being held. On the other
hand, if I withdraw my promise, do I in any way offend against
Harmlessness and Justice ? Perhaps my friend has some very
urgent reason for his request, and may suffer injury if I refuse
it. But is it my duty to speculate concerning his possible
motives, and allow myself to be swayed by an idea that may
have no substance outside my own mind ? Certainly it is not.
If my friend has good reasons for what he asks of me, let him
confide in me, and I shall respect his confidence and may then
agree, or not, as I see wise, to help him in his project. It may
well be that his motives are not good ones, and that in obeying
him blindly I may be assisting him to harm others ; but I must
no more allow myself to be swayed by that consideration alone
than by the first, nor by anything but VIRTUE. Let it be
thought that Truth and Wisdom are one. Wisdom cannot
be manifested by ignorance. A pledge given blindly is itself an
offence against truth, for ignorance cannot know whether
conditions will permit of its being observed. (B)
But assuming for the purposes of the lesson that I feel bound
by my promise, how can I decide on a just division of the
money ? I have two standards to guide me, but their appli­
cation leads to results mutually contradictory. First I may
decide to give each of the prospective beneficiaries a sum
proportionate to his moral worth, in which case X ’s share
would be very large, Y ’s inconsiderable, and Z ’s merely
nominal. Second, I may make their material needs my cri­
terion, in which case Z, who has no apparent means of liveli­
hood, would get the larger share, and X, who is well-to-do, only
a nominal sum. It therefore seems to be impossible to execute
true justice in the matter, for what justice is I do not know.
From this quandary I gather a lesson of extreme importance
to the Aspirant, namely that I cannot manifest a quality that
has no Being in my consciousness. Out of my difficulty I may
now see two ways opening, the first through consideration of
the truth that every man, whatever his condition in life, has
already had perfect justice meted out to him by the great
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
76
LAW of BEING ; hence if I give an exactly equal sum to each
I come nearest to the action of the LAW, for “ the sun shines
equally upon thejust and the unjust", and how each profits depends
upon the nature of each. The same result will also be achieved
by returning the money to the donor, and telling him that I
have no power to act equitably in the circumstances.
Failing will and wisdom to act as above, or feeling that
some division of the money must be made, then let me recall
that wise but little-understood saying, “Render unto Caesar the
things that are Caesar's and unto God the things that are God's", and
in material things make material standards my guide, thus
giving to Z the larger and to X the smaller sum.
Some further comments upon the use of Imagination as
illustrated by the foregoing problems will be made before the
lesson closes, but before coming to them the remaining seven
Virtues must have a brief consideration.
(4) Purity.
It is said that to know the real meaning of any Virtue is to
know also how to live it, and this is particularly true of more
abstract Virtues such as Purity. It is a truism to say that
Purity manifests in a pure life, but what pure living really
means is understood by few. The majority of men, whether
nominal occultists or not, if they were to attempt a definition
at all, would probably define Purity as abstention from gluttony,
drunkenness, sensuality, and other of the grosser forms of vice ;
but the Occultist gives the term a much wider, and in many
respectsquite different,interpretation. O fhisviewunderstanding
is best gained through application of the Hermetic Postulate :
“ As is the Inner so is the Outer ; as is the Great so is the Small;
as it is Above so it is Below : there is but one LIFE andLA W.”
Rightly applied, the Law of Analogy thus formulated opens
all Gates to Knowledge, but as is the case with all Keys which
unlock the Doors of the Mysteries its use is fraught with
certain dangers, the nature of which no teacher can predict.
They spring from the nature of the Learner himself, for he may
through ignorance, prejudice, or misconception allow false
analogies to delude him, or delude himself by false application
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 77
of those that are true. See therefore in analogy, as in all things, a
mode of experience from the use ofwhich Knowledge will come.
The physical body is an analogue of the real Being of man.
Through study of it and of its needs understanding of Real
Being may be gained. The body needs food to sustain its life
and promote its growth, and experience is the food of Real Being.
Food containing inassimilable elements which neither
nourish the body nor stimulate it into healthy activity is
impure and causes the body to become impure. Food that is
impure compels the body to waste energy in elimination of the
burdensome substances it contains, and impairs the strength
and checks the growth. Food containing impurities of certain
kinds kills the body, for the effort it is forced to make in order
to expel the inassimilable substances exhausts its energies
completely. Food that in moderate quantities is pure becomes
impure in excess, and causes corresponding impurity of body.
Food that in certain circumstances is wholesome may in others
cause illness. Food that is good for one person may harm or
kill another.
These and other well-known, but not always remembered,
facts have their correspondences in Experience, the food of Real
Being, and in that Being itself. Any form of Experience what­
soever that the Being is capable of assimilating into Knowledge,
or that stimulates Being into healthy activity, ispure ; all other
forms are impure in one degree or another.
Idle habits, restless pursuit of fresh interests and sensations,
are impure forms of Experience ; the first because they are but
empty husks, the second because they are usually both in­
assimilable, and in bulk far in excess of requirements. More
dangerous than they are attempts to develop occult powers,
or questing after psychic phenomena, for their effects on Real
Being are analogous to those created in the body by drugs and
stimulants. Like the latter, they delude by producing an
illusionary appearance, or sensation of power— power, indeed,
is actually roused, but is expended not in growth and healthy
activity of Being but in neutralization and elimination of
matter that the Being is unable to assimilate into Knowledge.
Pursue diligently the foregoing line of thought and it will
in due time lead you to knowledge of what the Virtue of Purity
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
78
means, and how to live it. As a further help bear the following
definition in mind : A pure Being utilizes all Experience and
converts it into Knowledge. Experience that cannot be made toyield
Knowledge is impure.
Perfect Purity of Being would mean capacity to assimilate
into Knowledge every form of experience this human Sphere
can afford. Such a condition would obviously imply finality— ■
the close of the human cycle when all is comprehended by, or
absorbed in, a Self that itself is identified with LIFE. Average
man, the Neophyte, Disciple, even the Adept, is far from
finality, and for him the Way of Purity is always the way of the
Buddha, the Middle Path, called also the Path of Natural Duty.
What in the way of experience to select and what to reject
is a problem that always troubles Beginners who will not think,
but like lazy infants demand to be borne in the arms of an
elder, or by him led by the hand. Do not select, and do not
reject ! The mode of experience that lies nearest is always the
most profitable. To pure-living physical man natural appetite
is always a certain guide to the type of food his body most
needs, and this true appetite is in the outer Spheres a true
analogue of the ENERGY manifest in the EVERBEGOMING
which phase by phase sweeps Being ever nearer to BEING,
Selfever nearer to SELF. In man Karma (that grossly misunder­
stood Eastern term) stands mid-way between the ENERGY
of EVERBECOMlNG and natural appetite as an analogue
of both. It is the Energy of Self-becoming in man, and it bears
him into the exact Fields of Experience his Being is most fit
to profit from because they spring from that which the Being is.
Why then does the teacher invite his pupil to partake of
special experiences instead of leaving him to the guidance
of the Law ? The answer is that, if not blind or a pretender,
he does exactly that. The teacher is part of the Law. If a true
teacher he works consciously with the Law. That form of
experience to which he invites is that which the pupil is ready
to receive : he does not invite the man who is not yet a Learner
to partake of it, but on the contrary warns him insistently
that he will find it indigestible, if not actual poison. Let it be
remembered also that the Being of the Learner is very impure,
for man’s appetite since he fell from EDEN has become
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 79
corrupt, and guides him not to food for true Being but to the
husks that the Prodigal shares with the swine. Man as he now is
is sick, his Being is corrupt, and when consciousness of his
unhappy state dawns upon him he seeks a physician to guide
him back to health, for he has no power to help himself. That
physician is the teacher. The man who has entered the PATH
has found health of Being, and though he has a Master needs
no teacher. A teacher is for the man who, knowing that he is
sick, earnestly desires to be w ell; he is for no others, neither
for the well nor for those who though sick are unaware of their
disease. In his capacity of physician the teacher prescribes
for his pupil what, to pursue the analogy, I may call a special
diet, in the shape of modes of experience, not such as a truly
healthyBeing mayneed but as means ofcorrecting former errors.
Realization of the fact that to him, in his present stage of
progress, true Purity is impossible, is of the highest importance
to the Learner. “ I f we say we have no sin we deceive ourselves and
the truth is not in us.” In no way can all contained, even in a
simple form of experience, be assimilated. From it a residue
always remains as it remains from the most easily digested food.
For the Being as at present constituted this is not a bad thing,
but good, for it stimulates progress in two ways : first, by acting
as a reminder, received unconsciously in early stages of de­
velopment, that growth proceeds as much through casting off
as through building up ; and second, as another reminder,
that while anything remains that cannot be assimilated, growth
of Being is not complete ; for ultimately All must be absorbed
into ALL.
The Middle Way, a state of balance achieved in a Thought
of Self that does not act but surveys the activities of its lower
aspects, is the one sure means of securing all the Purity, all the
Virtue, that can manifest in our imperfect human phase. No
more than in self-indulgence is Purity found in asceticism.
Asceticism is not the antithesis of self-indulgence but merely
another name for it. The ignorant Aspirant who flees the
world and takes refuge in desert hermitage, or in monastic
seclusion, usually binds himself all the more securely to his
lower nature. In starving his body and depriving his human
mental-emotional nature of its normal expression he does not
8o T H E O C C U L T W A Y
realize that he is indulging other aspects of his Being, no more
lofty, in that he struggles for personal salvation or for super­
human power. The average man or woman living a normal
good life, and troubling not at all about “salvation” and
“ power” , is ofter far more pure, in the true sense, than the
hermit, monk, or nun.
This is not to assert that all who follow the monastic life are
merely exchanging worldly indulgences for others which they
think will profit them more. On the contrary, that life may in
itself be the very experience the Being needs most, and if so
it is the way of purity for those who take it. The Catholic
Church shows some appreciation of the Law in its rule that
a postulant must have a vocation.
Monk and nun may live a life of Purity, but they cannot
rightly claim greater Purity ofBeing than can the Learner who,
in his normal life, lives always in harmony with the Eternal
Becoming. In the Cloister, as in the World, true balance of
Being enables true Virtue to manifest. If balance is absent,
whatever Virtue appears does so by grace of special Con­
ditions and is therefore not VIRTUE at all.
(5) Self-reliance.
Upon what Self may reliance be placed, when the Self of
the moment that surveys and guides the Being is not stable,
but ever withdraws and loses itself in another more deeply
placed and ofwider vision, and when the wisdom of today proves
that of yesterday false, and will itself be proved false by the
wisdom of tomorrow ?
The intelligent but inexperienced Learner when approach­
ing the practice of Self-reliance will inevitably find the fore­
going, or a similar question, arising in his mind. To it an
answer of a philosophic nature may be given, such as may
satisfy the questioner, but one that comes through experience
is always best when it can be obtained.
Let it be conceived that you and I, as Learner and Teacher,
are in direct contact. You have come to me seeking instruction
in the Art of Living, and I have shown you the way, in the
manner exemplified in these lessons. Your mind is of the
active, not passive, type, and you ponder deeply over all I have
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 8l
said and taught, with results which I will assume to be as
follows :
Part of my teachings you have accepted without question ;
part you have rejected ; and still another part you have neither
accepted nor rejected, but have put asideforfuture consideration.
Can you say why you have passed these judgments ? You
will reply, because instinct, reason, or intuition dictated them.
Who and what are those authoritative powers to which you
give those names ? You are compelled to admit that they are
yourself, or aspects of Self. Ask them what authority they
have to judge, and no reply will come,/or to question Authority is
to slay it. Ask now of the Asker whether he also does not think
to enthrone himself as Judge, and he may murmur admission,
and then die.
Thus in a few brief questions and answers you demonstrate
the fact that Self is no fixed resting-place, but is rather an
endless ladder which you mount step by step. As you tread
each step you name it Self and rely upon it to support you, but
you prove, as you leave it, that your reliance is not upon it,
but upon a higher which it has helped you to reach.
And upon what, ultimately, does your reliance rest ? Not
upon the step on which you stand, nor upon the next which
you will reach, for both are selves, but upon the Ladder which
is Self.
Reinforce this understanding by consideration of another
aspect of our relationship. What in the first instance prompted
you to come to me ? You had, as an intelligent man, some
ideas of your own concerning life and how to live it, no matter
whence derived. Those ideas were manifestations of a Self
that directed your Being, and you obeyed their authority
for a period. Then the light of another Self, that bade you
come to me, dawned in your Being. You obeyed and came,
but in coming the thought of profiting from my leading half
veiled the light ofyour own inner leader.
Live out in imagination the steps you travelled to the point
where now you stand and you will perceive Self-reliance
constantly exhibited, not indeed by resting in any Self but by
constantly quitting self for higher Self.
Honestly and persistently practised, Self-examination,
F
82 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
reinforced by the exercise of imagination, brings through Self­
experience constant additions to knowledge. Before long you
may learn a fact always distasteful to Beginners, and doubly
distasteful to the ordinary student, that most of what is called
reasoned or intuitional knowledge derives in reality from
authority. Reason, you may assert, convinces you that what
I place before you is Truth, yet in so asserting you unconsciously
lay claim to knowledge which I do not possess. I do not know
that my words are Truth. I know them only as symbols that
point towards Truth— Truth that, even if I knew it, I could
not express. Your acceptance of my words is not therefore
acceptance of Truth, but only of an aspect of it, limited and
conditioned by the instrument through which it comes,
MYSELF. My words are but an expression of my limited
Selfhood and in accepting them you accept me.
Give deep consideration to the hints I give— they are hints
merely, and in no sense complete expositions. Study also the
“ KEY” .
“NOTHING IS FALSE ; NOTHING IS TRUE ; ALL
THINGS THAT EXIST ARE BUT MASKS OF TRUTH ;
ACCEPT NO T H IN G ; REJECT NO T H IN G ; LEARN
THROUGH STUDY OF ALL, BUT ABOVE ALL LEARN
FROM THE LEARNER.”
No interpretation of this aphorism is needed that you cannot
readily and more profitably evolve for yourself. By acting
always in accordance with it you will place yourself in union
with the Everbecoming of Life, and will wake to the truth
that in manifest Being there is no final arbiter, no enduring
Self. And yet the more securely do you establish yourselfin this
attitude the more certainly do you identify yourself with a
Self that is enduring, and that though ever changing remains
for ever SELF. In ever relying upon that Self you exhibit
Virtue and in no other way. It is not the SUPREME SELF,
the ONE, for that ever retreats, but it is its Light in the worlds
in which you live, its witness and its symbol. Rest in devotion
in it and it will bear you on, until at last knowledge of THAT
which you are becomes yours, of that infinite LIFE that
EVER EXISTS in its EVERBECOMING.
Harmlessness, Truthfulness, Justice, and Purity when
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 83
practised bring you to Self-reliance, yet only when the latter
is achieved do the other four become fully realized. Self-reliance
is the universal solvent that separates false teaching from true,
for the first leads away from it and the last leads towards it,
and by that sign is their quality revealed. And yet, paradoxi­
cally as ever, to the Self-reliant there is not in the universe
anything that is truly false and evil, for whatever the limi­
tations of a thing may be it is a mode of experience which when
assimilated leads towards knowledge.
“ To the pure all things are pure” : evil exists not in any
teaching however corrupt it may seem to be, nor does evil
befall those who ignorantly or innocently accept it as truth,
for to them it gives the experience they most need ; but evil
does lie in wait for those who consciously, and for their own
narrow purposes, follow any path ; and above all it awaits
those who teach, and know their teachings to be false.
With practice of the Fifth Virtue will come realization of
the fact that in all instances the Virtues condition one another.
It is a highly important item of knowledge, and its many
implications should be diligently followed out. Study and
practice of the next Five Virtues (b), which enables the
Aspirant to complete his first upward step, will reveal still more
clearly the conditioning influences one upon another of all the
Virtues. It is through your own living and thinking, ultimately,
that all knowledge must come to you, and because this is so
my comments upon the remaining Virtues will be limited to the
simplest outlines I can compass, enough to make of each an
unadorned signpost, and no more.
Charity-Harmlessness (1-6).
No true understanding of life is possible without a thorough
grasp of the fact that all things in the phenomenal worlds are
bi-polar. Everything is positive-negative, or, as some prefer to
say, male-female. Although certain beings, things, and qualities
are said to be male, and certain others female, it does not mean
that the first are wholly positive and the second wholly negative,
but merely that the polar aspect under which each is classified
is predominant in its constitution. Thus every man has a
feminine aspect and every woman a masculine aspect, and so
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
84
it is with all things, including the Virtues, both singly and in
the mass. Every separate Virtue has its own positive and its
own negative manifestation ; but in some Virtues the first is
dominant and in others the last. Woman is the complement of
man, and both are equally necessary for the continuation of
the human race. Analogously, complementary Virtues are
necessary for the continued manifestation of VIRTUE.
Harmlessness is a feminine or negative Virtue v/hich in its
most positive aspect manifests in refusal to do injury to anything,
and in its most negative in refusal to permit injury to be done.
It cannot create conditions for its own manifestation, but must
remain dormant until evocative conditions are created for it
or thrust upon it. Charity is the male complement of Harm­
lessness, and may be defined as an active will to increase the
sum total of good in the world and diminish the sum total of
evil. It creates the conditions which its complement requires,
and without it Harmlessness would quickly vanish from the
world.
In its own male aspect Charity exhibits itself in objective
relief of suffering, and in all those philanthropic activities so
prominent a feature of civilized life. Yet the Virtue thus
manifest is obviously not true Charity, for its range is strictly
limited and multitudes are in no position to exhibit it at all.
It is in and through its own negative, or feminine aspect, that
the real Charity receives universal manifestation. It subsists
not in an executive Self, that apportions objective benefits to
selected recipients, but in a Higher, inner Self that eternally
gives of itself to Life, through whatsoever instruments or
channels conditions place at its disposal: through sympathy,
through understanding, through teaching that may lead
others to Virtue. O f such a Self true Charity is but another
name. O f it it may be truly said : it covers over not merely
a multitude of sins, but all sin.
In average man, and perhaps more frequently still in those
who profess to be virtuous without understanding Virtue, what
passes as Charity is but a sorry parody of the true quality. Do
we not constantly see what claims to be deep sympathy with
pain and suffering existing side by side with desire to hurt and
punish the cause of the evil ? “Demon est Deus inversus” l This
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 85
mask of the Archangel Charity, shocked though its enter­
tainers may be at the suggestion, is not the bridegroom of the
White Virgin Harmlessness, but is the consort of her dark,
earth-stained sister, the Permitter of Evil, negative Harm­
fulness. Do we not constantly see the true SELF, that ever­
lastingly gives of itself to the whole Cosmos, cast out and cruci­
fied, and a mocking demon enthroned in its place and wor­
shipped by ignorant man ? There is no true Charity in the man
who cannot give to the inflictor of suffering an understanding
as perfect as the sympathy which he gives to the sufferer, nor
can that man ever manifest the Virtue of true Harmlessness.
Contentment-Truthfulness (7-2).
“ 7 o express reality is to be TRUTHFUL, to accept it is to be
CONTENT.”
Such was the teaching of the ancient Hermetic Masters.
Contentment is the feminine complement of the male Virtue
Truthfulness. Neither can manifest except in conjunction with
the other, nor can REALITY manifest without their united
aid. Contentment, the true Virtue, differs subtly but pro­
foundly from the attribute usually known by that name.
Contentment as average man knows it may mean absence of
ambition, passive acceptance of conditions, or prideful self-
satisfaction, but true Contentment produces ambitious effort,
active acceptance of conditions as steps, and no thought of
Self otherwise than as a fleeting phase of Becoming. Ordinary
man may regard the Disciple as discontented, for he strives
ever for wider and wider consciousness, yet his discontent is
not the human attribute but that DIVINE DISCONTENT
of which the ancient sages spoke. He shares that attribute with
LIFE, for the DIVINE DISCONTENT and the eternal
BECOMING are but different names for one thing. Dis­
contented man hates his conditions and battles against them,
but by so doing he vitalizes them by attributing to them power
to bind him. The Disciple in his DIVINE DISCONTENT
rejoices in his conditions, uses them as steps in his ascent, and
by turning their power to his own ends exhausts it and so
annihilates them. Ordinary man finds contentment in rest, the
Disciple in the ceaseless eternal motion of Becoming. Ordinary
86 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
man finds contentment in a single step, the Disciple in the
Ladder of many steps. Human discontent means sorrowful
consciousness of captivity. DIVINE DISCONTENT means
Joy—-joy in the knowledge that whatever is is good and that
though it for ever changes it remains for ever good.
As already demonstrated in the Comments upon the
Problem of Truthfulness, wholehearted acceptance of con­
ditions is necessary to the manifestation of Truth. While Truth
is veiled conditions hold the Self bound and captive. When
Truth manifests conditions have become accepted friends and
helpers, and from this comes the saying : “ The Truth shall make
youfree.”
Discrimination-Justice (8-3).
Everywhere as we ascend the scale of manifested Life
the complementary elements that unite and produce each
natural note tend to lose their distinctive positive or negative
characteristics, and to approximate more and more, one to
the other, until at last they cease to be separate and merge into
one sound. Thus though the Virtue of Justice is negative to
Discrimination, its positive complement, it is much less
definitely negative than are Harmlessness and Contentment. In
its more everyday meaning Discrimination is a quality that
enables a man to measure, weigh, select, or apportion out the
ingredients or elements that are called for by the work he has
in hand, yet unless he also possesses the attribute ofJustice his
Discrimination can have only a very limited manifestation.
It has been said that Justice fashions the law which Dis­
crimination executes, and that consequently they are but
names given to the different poles of a single quality.
In the true or universal sense the Virtue of Justice is
achieved by living in and with the Everbecoming of Life and
Being. The fact of so living is made manifest outwardly when
the man begins to act as a conscious co-worker with universal
Nature, or as an agent of the LAW of LIFE ; and such ac­
tivity is called Discrimination.
Justice and Discrimination, in their true character, are
not susceptible of manifestation by you who are only in the
act of taking the first step towards the Disciple’s PATH ; but
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 87
you may approach them step by step, by applying as you learn
it the Law of Virtuous living. A sustained will to see LIFE as
a perfect whole will lead you steadily towards identification
with true Justice, and a manifestation of the same will in your
more outward life will carry you towards union with Dis­
crimination.
Simplicity-Purity (9-4).
In the deepest, highest sense of the term, Simplicity implies
a state of Being wherein the Selfrests ever in the supreme SELF,
and the Consciousness is therefore single, untainted by the
shadow of ignorance, unclouded even for a moment by associ­
ation with any more limited aspect of Being. Thus regarded,
Simplicity is a purely negative Virtue, and can have no
possible manifestation except through its executive complement,
which is Purity. On the less exalted plane of the Learner it
still remains purely negative, subsisting only in a Selfhood that
ever withdraws into deeper Being. A Selfthus centredisSIMPLE
and manifests to the world in a Life and Being that is PURE.
Self-reliance-Self-surrender (5-10).
As they appear to the everyday human, or separate
consciousness, the attributes of Self-reliance and Self-surrender
are absolutely antithetical, and could not prove other than
mutually destructive if manifested in one individual. Yet when
contemplated by the Adept or Disciple whose consciousness
is non-separate they present a very different appearance. Self-
reliance is a wholly positive, or male, Virtue, and cannot there­
fore have any true manifestation of its own. Self-surrender is
wholly negative, or female, and therefore, also, is incapable
ofmanifesting. Together only, as eternally united complements,
weddedin heaven, they manifest not as two but as one. Surrender
of existing Self to Self-Everbecoming produces the living
Virtue of Self-reliance. Reliance placed always upon Self-
Everbecoming, and withdrawn from existing Self, produces the
living Virtue ofSelf-surrender. Nothing more can orneed be said.
Concluding Comments.
It is possible that the Beginner in these studies may com­
plain that my comments upon the Virtues, and advice con-
88 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
cerning their practice, are not sufficiently full and detailed, and
that I have slurred over many points with a remark that is
vague or cryptic. Such is admittedly true, but what I have done
I have done purposely. To relieve a pupil ofthe duty ofthinking
for himselfis no part of the work of a teacher; on the contrary,
his main concern is, or should be, to compel the pupil to think
and act for himself. If I have erred in the present lesson it is on
the side of relieving the Learner to too great an extent of the
necessity of using his own mind, not otherwise. The lesson,
no matter how elaborated and extended, could never do more
than stimulate the motion of thought in a particular direction,
and that, I think, has been done, as fully as need be, by the
outline I have given. Nothing remains therefore but to give
a few additional items of advice and warning before bringing
this lesson to a close.
(1) . Do not imagine when you have gained an intel­
lectual understanding of the explanations and instructions
which this lesson contains that you have mastered it, for only
then will real learning begin. The intellect can do no more
than comprehend the boundaries of the field of experience that
has been spread before you ; the Selfhas to enter that field and
live in it in order to translate its substance into knowledge.
(2) . Exercise the imagination daily in living out the Virtues
in easily realized situations.
(3) . In early stages of the exercise concentrate upon mani­
festing a single pair of the complementary Virtues. Later take
others into consideration, paying special attention to the
conditioning influences each exercises over each. In time you
will realize that to manifest any one Virtue perfectly means to
manifest all ten.
(4) . A warning given needs, I think, to be reiterated, and
more fully emphasized. It is improbable that you or any other
Western student have reached the stage of studying seriously
lessons such as these without some previous experience of other
systems of occult or psychological training. You will conse­
quently be aware that exercises in visualization, as they are
often called, for the development of the imagination, are
frequently advocated. Be warned ! If you intend to progress
surely and safely upon the true Occult Way, avoid all such
T H E T E N V I R T U E S 89
practices. Imagination is one of the more powerful weapons
or instruments which the Higher Self uses, or which it ought
to use, to aid it towards freedom, but it is a weapon or instru­
ment only, and nothing more. If the power of INTEREST
(discussed in Lesson II) be focused in the instrument, and
the intention be concentrated upon cultivating and perfecting
it, the Self that should be moving into freedom will become
bound by and identified with it. The true Occultist, knowing
this, never centres Interest in the powers and faculties he uses,
but always focuses it in Becoming. His higher Self, free and ever
withdrawing, is the supreme power of his Being, and of it all
other powers are but feeble parodies. The Aspirant who
concentrates attention upon development of imagination, or
of any other faculty, may fitly be compared to the pioneer who
with an area ofjungle to clear wastes his days in polishing his
axe and in ornamenting its haft with curious carvings. Use
therefore such imagination as you have at your disposal, but
have no thought of strengthening it. As the Self becomes free
and withdraws to higher and deeper spheres of Being, the
instruments with which it works, the legions of the lower selfhood,
will grow more effective and powerful, for they, being aspects
of Itself, cannot but share its growing strength and freedom.
(5) . Through steady practice of living out the Virtues in
imagination a balanced outlook upon life will gradually,
perhaps quickly, become established, and balance is the gate
to freedom and wider vision.
(6) . If the general conditions likely to prevail in a pro­
spective experience are known, it will be found helpful to live
it out in imagination beforehand, concentrating upon mani­
festing the Virtue or Virtues most appropriate. The majority
of civilized persons do something of this nature, yet achieve
little but expenditure of energy, the reason being that they lack
the Thought ofSelfwhich the Learner has in the Virtue.
(7) . A better use still can be made of this exercise in the
re-creation of past experiences had unprofitably. Reshape
them and live out in them such Virtue or Virtues as they call
for, and to the extent that you succeed you will wear them out.
Those haunting phantoms, remorse for unwise actions, sorrow
for vanished pleasures, vain regrets for lost opportunities, and
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
90
their numerous kin, which plague and beset so many, are soon
exorcized and destroyed for ever by these simple means.
(8). Finally, hold firmly in mind that the Virtues themselves
are but instruments, and other than as such have no real
meaning or value. They are simply focusing-points for the
consciousness that enable the Energies of Being to be con­
centrated in the Self, and nothing more. The Occultist is in no
way concerned with being “good” and “virtuous” as these
terms are commonly understood : he is concerned only with
finding freedom in his true Self. Good and Evil, Virtue and
Vice, are equally valuable and equally without value for him.
They are the Pairs of Opposites, and he lives neither in the one
nor in the other, but in a union of the two, which is higher than
either.
The Ancient One said:
If you voyage with the stream of True Waters you will
reach six different ports, and these are their names : (1) Light,
(2) Strength, (3) Peace, (4) Wealth, (5) Self, (6) Wisdom.
The Learner asked:
How shall I know the True Ports, O Father, since so many
in the world bear the self-same names ?
The Ancient One said :
True Light lies hidden behind Giant Rocks, and its only
approach is through the Caverns of Mind.
True Strength is encompassed by demons called Powers,
and cannot be gained until they are slain.
True Peace is encircled by seething whirlpools, and can be
entered only while Tempests rage.
True Wealth is enshrouded by Shadows called Possessions,
and cannot be gained until they are scattered.
True Self is masked by countless reflections, and cannot be
sighted until they are washed away.
True Wisdom has no shadows, and is found in Sunlit
Waters when all other ports are passed.
(The Sayings of the Ancient One.)
\
Lesson IV
BALANCE
Asked by his pupils to explain how, if at all, the actions of
Nature differ from those of the Elements, a Master of the
Mystery Schools of the lost Mediterranean world is recorded
as having replied :
“ The Mother lives by eternally restoring a balance that her
Children eternally destroy”
As it is in the Macrocosm so it is in the Microcosm.
The Disciple lives in the Everbecoming by perpetually
establishing in the Self an equipoise of Being that the selves
perpetually disturb.
No matter how variously they may define them, the objects
of all true Disciples are one, and that identity may most fitly be
expressed by the single word BALANCE. One Disciple may
declare thatheseeksknowledge ofand possession ofthe Soul, and
another that he desires to lose himself in service of LIFE, yet
their aims are not opposed. To find and possess the Soul is to
assert a supreme individuality, and to surrender identity to
universal LIFE is to sacrifice the Soul, yet the acts are not two,
but one only. Both are practical assertions offreedom. The Self
must be free before it can take possession of the treasure of the
Soul. The Self must be free before it can choose its service.
LIFE is the manifestor of the Soul, and LIFE alone may possess
that treasure. He who possesses the Soul is one with LIFE.
He who sacrifices the Soul yields up his possession to
himself.
The formula “ I AM ” is the symbol of the Free Self, for
in it is expressed Consciousness of Being unfettered by any of
the limitations of individuality. But Self is not created free : it
is born into freedom ; and only through the agency of a Body
91
92 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
that has reached full development and become still is birth
possible at all. In the perfected Body, as in a mirror, “ I” , the
Self, sees itself reflected and calls the image “I ” . This is the
Soul: the Image ofSelfreflectedin a Body becomeperfect.
No true Image of the Self, no clear Vision of the Soul,
nothing more than a distorted form or a throng of flitting
shadows, is ever seen in the mirror of an imperfect Body. There­
fore it is only at the moment of completion of any cycle of
growth of a bodily instrument that the Vision of the Soul is
seen. And then it is seen only to vanish again in the moment of
sight, for a Body completely developed is motionless, and without
motion there can be no manifestation.
“ The Body becomes perfect; the Vision shinesforth and vanishes
with the Mirror that contained it; the Image is lost, but the Reality
lives on in the Perceiver now born into knowledge ofItself”
To those capable of appreciating the significance of the
foregoing symbolic exposition it will now become readily
apparent that the finding of the Soul, and the surrender of
individuality to LIFE, are but different terms used to describe
a single event, an event not susceptible of description by either
alone, and in its reality essentially indescribable. Apparent
also may become something of the meaning of sayings such
as : “ He that loseth his life shallfind it.” “ You will enter the light
butyou will never touch theflame.”
To Beginners of less experience the significance of what
I say will naturally be less apparent, and they should therefore
take the exposition simply as the outline of a symbol, to which,
as wider knowledge comes, they themselves may add colour and
detail. As a symbol also it serves as a very appropriate text for
the philosophic expositions and practical instructions that
form the body of the present lesson.
The Soul and its analogues, (a) The Step.
“ As is the Innerso is the Outer; as is the Great so is the Small;
as it is Above so it is Below: there is but ONE LIFE and
LAW.”
In those words Hermes, Thrice-great Master, places in the
hands of his Disciples the first and greatest of the Keys to
Knowledge. The LIFE is not absent from any point in space,
i
B A L A N C E 93
and the LAW is manifest in the least significant motion of the
least significant being if we who observe it possess eyes that
can see and minds that can comprehend. Regard that most
readily observable of all phenomena, physical action, and note
what lessons it can teach. Assume that the word MOTION is
the name of the SPIRIT (LIFE), and conceive that you are
seeking to know it, in the only way it may be known, in an
individual form called SOUL. Now regard the body at rest:
M OTION does not manifest through it, but should it move
from where it stands to an adjacent spot M OTION will
manifest through it in the form of a Step. Let it be assumed that
desire to move arises. Bodily energies then become active in
two opposing ways. First there is a stir of energy of a positive or
outgoing character that causes a foot to be raised and advanced,
thus throwing the body out of balance, and giving it a forward
and downward motion that would end in a fall if not checked.
But opposing energy of a negative or indrawing character does
check it by swinging the centre ofgravity ofthe body into a new
position, causing the raised foot to be placed in a fresh resting-
place, the other to be brought forward to join it, and thus
restoring balance.
The life-course, or full cycle of life from birth to death, of
an entity called Step is exhibited in the various movements
described. Throughout the existence of the Step MOTION
was manifest through it in a succession of phases or aspects of
itself, but not until the Step was fully taken— not until the
exact moment ofits completion— was the Idea ofStep, asa specific
or individual reflection of MOTION, wholly and clearly
known. This Idea of a Step, this Motion-of-a-Step, as I may call it,
for lack of a better term, is the SOUL of which you are in
search. With completion of the body— the physical mani­
festation ofthe Step— the Soul became fully known, then with the
mirror that revealed it it vanished again as a concrete vision,
but it lives on as an abstract Idea with which, henceforth,
MOTION is identified.
(b) The Cell.
The most perfect analogy of the evolution of Soul which
this material world affords is furnished by the development
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
94
from out of the single protoplasmic cell of the physical body of
man. Appreciation of it may be less readily gained than is
appreciation of the illustration of the Step, but expanded
knowledge will amply repay the Learner for any effort he
expends in achieving it. New fields of thought will open up
before him, yielding, when explored, knowledge of a hitherto
unsuspected kind concerning the nature of man and the
world.
The life-cycle of the physical body of man (and of every
being) begins when male and female elements unite and
produce the fertilized cell. Life in the form of positive or out­
going, and negative or indrawing, Energy now wakes in what
was hitherto a dark inert sphere. Associated, as of necessity
it is, with the life Energies, the centre of gravity, which I shall
designate the Life-Centre, of the cell now moves from its static
state towards the positive pole of the awakened Being, and
the latter then proceeds to manifest its life positively as a
seeker of and intaker of nutriment. In due course this positive
manifestation reaches its limit, whereupon negative Energy
becomes dominant; associated with it the Life-Centre swings
back, pendulum-like, towards the negative pole of the Being,
and the cell manifests its life negatively in assimilation of the
food taken in. Thus the Swing of Being, as the manifestation
described has aptly been called, begins, and continues through­
out the development of the cell-body, of which development
it is at once the cause and the manifestation, until the sphere,
once dark and inert, becomes alive throughout. Then the
Swing of Being ceases ; the Life-Centre becomes balanced and
still; positive and negative Energies both find a focus in it,
and become simple Power.
Instantly with its attainment of full development the
unicellular entity ceases to exist, and one that is bi-cellular
appears in its place— in other words the simple cell divides,
and the growing body becomes one of two cells. The balanced
Life-Centre of the more primitive entity vanishes with it, to
reappear instantly in the Swing of Being of its more complex
successor. And yet though the primary Life-Centre and the
body it animated have in a sense disappeared, actually they
have not done so, for not merely do they live on in the more
B A L A N C E 95
evolved form but they also continue existence in two aspects,
in the shape of the two new cells, on the same primitive plane
as before.
In the bi-cellular entity the Swing of Being begins and
continues exactly as in the primary cell. Again, with full
development of the body, it ceases ; the Life-Centre finds an
equilibrium, the bi-cellul'ar body vanishes as a separate entity
and is replaced by a quadri-cellular body, each cell of which is
identical in constitution with the original cell, and occupies
exactly the same primitive place in the scale of being. Thus by
continuous cell-division, and continuous transfer of the Life-
Centre from more simple to more complex bodies, the whole
body of man is built up.
Now, the Life-Centre in the cell, and in every body suc­
cessively evolved from it, is a true analogue of the Soul of Man.
It would not be wrong to call it the Soul in embryo, though as
Soul it may not be known in those primitive manifestations, for
no awakened Self exists on the planes to which they belong.
When applying, or attempting to apply, this analogy, let it
be borne in mind that though the original unicellular body, and
succeeding multicellular bodies, are all lost and absorbed in the
developed body of the man, yet none is truly lost at all, for
they continue to exist as living aspects of the Being to which,
by loss of their own separate identities, they have given
birth.
Birth andrebirth of the Soul.
To make clear the significance of the analogy of the cell and
its evolution it now becomes necessary to give a more detailed
picture than has yet been given in these lessons of that phase of
EVERBECOMING called Man. To this end I shall outline a
conception of man which will differ, or appear to differ, in
many ways from those favoured by other exponents of the
Occult Philosophy. Learners, however, must not take this as
implying that I think the views of other authorities wrong, and
my own view the only one that is right. Arguments, which are
not infrequent among students, and even among teachers of
Occultism, as to whether man is a compound of ten, seven,
four, three, or any other number of different elements or
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
96
Principles, are not merely useless but highly obstructive. They
imply either forgetfulness of, or ignorance of, the truth— that in
life there is but one changeless and permanent Principle, and
that is LIFE itself. The so-called Principles of man, whether
regarded separately or in combination, are not realities, but
simply aspects of LIFE— expedients that have a value in that
they aid in carrying the mind towards reality. Each of the
Principles of man, whether it is one of seven, or of four, or of
three, has a meaning and value relative to the conception which
it and its companions combine to produce, nothing more.
That conception is itself but a mere relativity, one of a host of
symbols, valuable in as much as it suggests reality, but in no sense
the reality itself.
When therefore I declare that three Elements combine to
produce that particular aspect of EVERBECOMING LIFE
known as Man, let it not be thought that I am contradicting
those who teach that the human Principles are seven or four
in number. I am simply approaching the conception I design
to create by means of what I conceive to be the most appro­
priate steps. The Learner will find little difficulty in appreci­
ating the picture I present if he takes care to clear his mind of
preconceptions, but should he neglect to do that he will gain
nothing from the study but confusion of thought.
The Elements of Human Manifestation.
Three Elements, each an analogue of one of the uncon­
ditioned ELEMENTS of the DIVINE TRINITY, combine to
produce the manifestation of LIFE called Man, and may be
tabulated thus :
(1). A Consciousness Element represented by . The Self.
(2.) An Energy Element represented by . . (a) Bodily life-forces.
(b) Lower Emotions, De­
sires, Passions, Im­
pulses.
(c) Thoughts, Imagina­
tions.
(d) Higher Emotions.
Spiritual Instincts,
Inspirations, Intui­
tions.
(3). A Substance Element represented by . "The Sphere of Ignorance
B A L A N C E 97
Comments.
(1) . The Self. The Self is simple Consciousness of Being
and needs no further definition.
(2) . Energy. Like all things in the phenomenal Universe
Energy in its manifestations is both positive and negative. In
the first aspect it carries the Being into outgoing action in search
of experience, the food upon which it lives and nourishes its
growth. In the second its action is ingoing, exhibited by the
Being in assimilation of the fruits of its positive activity.
As a Principle Energy has no form, nor has it form in
unselfconscious Beings. In man when not associated with the
Self it is formless ; when associated with Self it assumes forms
of various kinds, some nebulous, some definite.
(a) Though their existence is recognized, Physical Energies,
generally called life-forces, do not impinge upon Consciousness
as forms. They belong to Spheres of Being that lie below the
Sphere of Self.
(b) Lower Emotions, passions, instincts, impulses are
sometimes cognized as indeterminate forms and sometimes not.
They belong to the lower sub-planes of the Sphere of Self, and
represent primitive aspects of selfhood associated with Energy.
(c) Thoughts and Imaginations are always cognized as
forms, definite if the individuality is well developed, indefinite
if not. They belong to the plane of the Self, and represent
aspects of Self associated with Energy.
(d) Higher Emotions, intuitions, inspirations, and so on
are sometimes cognized as forms and sometimes not. Whether
cognized or not cognized, and whether the forms they assume
are definite or nebulous, depends wholly upon the development
of the individual. They belong to the higher sub-planes of the
Sphere of Self, and are energies associated with aspects of
Consciousness, which, though lofty, are undeveloped and
unstable.
Form, therefore, manifests when Self associates with
Energy and uses it as a means of linking itself with Substance.
Consequently, relative to humanity, there are no forms in the
Cosmos outside the Sphere of the Self.
To the foregoing assertion many will doubtless take excep­
tion. Is not (it may be asked) the whole Cosmos alive, since it is
G
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
98
the expression of an infinite LIFE ? Is not every point in space
a Life— a living Being? Is not (as indeed I who give these
lessons have taught elsewhere) the whole of space thronged
with Beings, some infinitely higher and some infinitely lower
than human beings ? Is not what I now assert a contradiction of
universal Occult teaching ?
The answer is that the teachings of all true Occultists are
the same, and that whatever contradictions they may furnish
are due not to the teachings themselves but to the interpretations
putuponthembystudents. Beings do exist both above and below the
Sphere of Self, but not until that Sphere expands to include
them can man perceive them asforms. All Beings are triune in
character (Consciousness-Energy-Substance), and Conscious­
ness determines their Sphere. In their triune character they
cannot quit their own plane and descend or rise, as the case
may be, into the human Sphere. They can (as they do) impinge
upon it in a single aspect— the dynamic, or Energy, aspect—that
is all.
Consider what happens in Consciousness when we read the
words of some ancient and lofty Scripture. An impulse which
we call spiritual moves us, and lofty thoughts may take form
in the mind. But what is it that moves us ? Is it the Being of the
Teacher ? No, not in his triune character, but as an Energy
which takes form as it associates with the Self. An image of the
Teacher may form in the mind and affect the responsive
student powerfully, as that of the Christ or the Buddha affects
the devotee. But is that image the Teacher himself? No :
apart from the Self it has no existence— it is a thought, like all
others.
Elemental Beings, demons, angels, gods exist in countless
hierarchies throughout the Cosmos, and the Energies they
emanate affect us unceasingly, but their true forms our human
consciousness can never know. To know them the Self would
have to transfer itself to their Spheres, or expand its own to
include them. Relative to humanity, therefore, it is true to say
that the Cosmos is populated only by blind forces; but let the
Learner remember (lest he stumble upon another contra­
diction) that an aspect of a Being may be blind, though the
Being itself be supremely conscious.
B A L A N C E 99
My aim in giving this teaching (which is, as is the greater
part of these lessons, suggestive rather than clearly expository)
is to provide a wholesome corrective of the many disorders that
invade the minds of Beginners through study of “popular”
works on Occultism. Such works, while professing to free the
minds of students from the authority of the personal, extra-
Cosmic God, and from that of those who act in his name, bind
them all the more surely by imposing upon them hosts of
angels and elementáis of forms and attributes equally anthro­
pomorphic.
No human eye has ever perceived angel or elemental. It may
perceive a form not native to this world, but the man’s own
Self associated with some powerful or subtle Energy will have
created it : in other words it will be merely an objectified
thought. Similarly, the memory of an experience had on
another plane will not be an image of the experience itself,
but an Energy drawn from it, and given form by the Waking
Self. Seek for the implications of these teachings, and cease
to concern yourself with other'worlds and their denizens. (A)
(3). The Sphere ofIgnorance. The term Field ofExperience, used
frequently in these lessons, should be understood to mean all
material circumstances, thoughts, and emotions that condition
Self in its search for knowledge, whether the sphere of search
is a life-span or the happening of a moment. All that is wholly
unknown within any Field of Experience is The Sphere ofIgnorance.
The conditions, the Field of Experience, delimit the Sphere of
Ignorance and are forms, embodied Energies, but the Sphere it­
self is Substance. It has been called The Dark Sphere, the Body of
Night, and similar names, because it is dark, inert, unlit by
Consciousness, unmoved by Energy. It may be a difficult
concept to grasp because unfamiliar, but if a true under­
standing of the process of Soul-evolution is desired an effort
must be made to appreciate it. We are so accustomed to
thinking of the physical body and other objective phenomena
as substantial that we are apt to forget that Substance (that
which stands under, or underlies, manifestation) is not Matter,
but one of the three metaphysical Elements of Being, the
negative of Consciousness, and therefore in itself unknown and
unknowable. Matter is embodied Energy, not Substance, but
100 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
Self linked by Energy with Substance. When Self conjoined with
Energy enters the Dark Sphere, which is Substance, living
forms arise out of the association, and continue to arise until
the sphere becomes populated, its denizens forming new
conditions added to those that already delimit it. Within these
new conditions exploration continues, until at last all are
united and harmonized into a living Body of Knowledge.
Between the Sphere of Ignorance at the moment when Self
linked with Energy enters it and the cell at the moment of its
fertilization there is a perfect analogy, and throughout all that
thereafter eventuates this analogy holds good. As the Life-
Centre wakes in the dark body of the cell, so does an embryonic
Soul (Self linked by Energy with Substance) wake in the Sphere
of Ignorance. As the Swing ofBeing operates in the cell, so does
it operate in the Dark Sphere ; Self associated with positive
Energy moves in pursuit of experience, and associated with
negative Energy is active in assimilation of the fruits of experi­
ence. As the cell ultimately reaches full development, and the
Energies active in its growing become focused in the balanced
Life-Centre, so does the Dark Sphere develop into the Body
of Knowledge, and so do the Energies become focused in the
Soul. As the Life-Centre, freed from the Swing ofBeing, vanishes,
to reappear in the Swing of Being of a more evolved body, so
does the Soul freed by knowledge vanish into its Reality, the
Self, with it, again, to involve itself in exploration of a new and
wider Sphere of Ignorance.
Thus may the analogy be pursued ; and in pursuing it much
that is dark may be transmuted into light. Bear in mind that
my design here as elsewhere is not to inform, but rather to
delimit for you Spheres of Ignorance that can be made to yield
much knowledge.
Balancing the Forces.
I turn now to consideration of a more objective and
practical means of freeing the Self by balancing the Powers of
Being. Begin by preparing a table in the form illustrated in
Fig. i . Now select any recent experience that may have impressed
you and recall how you bore yourself while undergoing it,
noting as accurately as possible the nature of the Energies by
B A L A N C E IOI
which you were moved, and the resulting effects in Conscious­
ness, in the manner illustrated in the following example :
This morning, which was wet and cold, as I was passing
through the city to my office I noticed a bedraggled woman,
holding a deformed child in her arms, standing by the kerb,
begging furtively for alms from the passing pedestrians, who
hurried on their way indifferently. Moved by a sudden wave of
F ig u r e i .
EXPERIEN CE RULING FORCES
No.
Description
Higher
Emotions Thoughts
Lower
Emotions
Objective
Conditions
i. Beggar,
child
w
Compassion
(6)
Realization
of
Misery
(d)
Natural
Duty
«
Self-
sacrifice
(/)
Natural
Duty
O')
Reasoned
Under­
standing
te)
Fellow-
feeling
W
Dissatisfac­
tion with
Self
W
Rebellion
against Cir­
cumstances
(a)
Beggar,
child. Wet,
Cold, In­
different
Crowd
Compassion to relieve such pitiable distress by any means in my
power, I plunged my hand in my pocket and brought forth all
the money I had with me— a ten-shilling note, three or four
shillings, and some copper coins— and pressed forward, intent
upon giving the woman the entire sum. Before I could reach
her, however, the crowd thrust me aside, and obscured my
view of her. As I waited for passage a feeling as of waking from
a day-dream took possession ofme, and at once my mind became
strangely active. A vision of my own circumstances rose in
imagination. I am a poor man with an uncertain income
derived from journalistic work. I have a young wife and infant
102 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
child, both in indifferent health. Our home is not favourably
situated, and did circumstances permit I should for the benefit
of my family move to a better locality. Ten shillings is a sum
of considerable importance to me, enough to enable me to
procure my dear ones certain small comforts which to them
are necessaries. They will suffer if I give this money away, and
to have them suffer is a thing I cannot permit. I, also, am
accustomed to small indulgences, not strictly necessary to my
well-being, but in the absence of which my work is done less
efficiently. Had I but myself to consider I should cheerfully
sacrifice my own comfort for the sake of others whose needs are
so much greater, but wife and child must come before all
others, and their welfare would certainly be affected did my
capacity as a wage-earner decline.
Thus I thought, and replacing the note in my note-case,
and the coins in my pocket, was about to proceed upon my way,
when a break in the stream ofpedestrians gave me another view
of the beggar. Can I not, came the thought, make some
sacrifice for the relief of such misery ? I could, I decided, spare
a shilling, a considerable sum relative to my means. I moved
to the kerb, meaning to give the woman the coin, but was
jostled off the pavement by the crowd and narrowly escaped
being struck by a passing car. I might have been killed ! I
thought as I recovered myself. The picture of my wife and
child, and of the condition to which they might, if I were
dead, be reduced (perhaps as wretched as that of the
creatures before me), rose in my imagination. I thrust my
hand in my pocket again and drew forth all the coins it
contained. Hurriedly I pressed them into the outstretched
palm of the woman and turned and rushed quickly away.
Confused emotions shook me as I went : satisfaction at
having done a charitable deed was quickly displaced by
dissatisfaction with myself for my impulsiveness, and that
by a surge of rebellious anger against the social state that
allowed such distress as I had witnessed to exist. Then as
I reached my office the emotional storm abated, my thinking
mind assumed control, and reason showed me how childish
my feelings were. Regret for an action done was foolish waste
of energy, which should be better employed in steadying me to
B A L A N C E 103
endure its consequences. Greater foolishness was rebellion
against conditions, which are as they are as a result of centuries
ofslow evolution, and can only be rectified gradually, no matter
what the will of those involved in them.
Having thus reassembled the details of my experience, I
next begin to identify its chief items and classify the forces by
which I was moved. The spectacle of the beggar was un­
questionably the first of the powers that stirred me. In the
table I have prepared (Fig. 1), under the heading Objective
Conditions I enter : (a) “ Beggar— Child— Wet— Cold—In­
different Crowd” . With the sight came mental appreciation of
its meaning, and I enter in the Thought column (b) “Realization
of Misery” . Under Higher Emotions I enter (c) “ Compassion” .
The series of thoughts concerning my dependants and my own
circumstances I place also in the Thought column, grouped
together under the generic name of (d) “Natural Duty” . The
thought of some sacrifice of my own needs came in response to
another glimpse of the woman and child, and accordingly I
place (e) “Self-sacrifice” under the head of Thought. Escape
from the car is answered by another thought of the same order
as (d), so I make a second entry of (/) “Natural Duty” . Then
followed the emotional identification of those who form the
chief features of my own life-conditions with the beggar and
her child, and my wholly unthinking gift of a much larger sum
than I could afford. I give this impulse the generic name of
Fellow-feeling, and enter (g) “Fellow-feeling” under the head of
Lower Emotions. In the same column I note the negative
emotions that stirred me as I hurried away, (h) “Dissatisfaction
with Self” , and (i) “Rebellion against Circumstances” , and
conclude my entries with (J) “Reasoned Understanding” .
Fig. 1 shows the result of the analysis. Many more details
could be added, but those given are sufficient.
I now prepare another table (Fig. 2) to which, according
to the particular order to which they belong, and according to
whether they represent positive or negative Forces, I transfer
the entries made in Fig. 1. I have now before me a ready and
most instructive means of studying the Powers that moved me
throughout this experience, and of learning how they may be
controlled and turned into useful servants. As a Beginner in the
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
104
practice you will not immediately perceive the implications of
all that the analysis reveals. I shall therefore continue to regard
the experience as my own and will indicate a few of the more
F ig u r e 2.
E X P E R IE N C E : Beggar and ChUd
N E G A T IV E POW ERS B A LA N C E D P O W E R P O SIT IV E PO W ER S
Higher Emotions Spiritual (Free) Self Higher Emotions
None awake
Thought (6) is un­
balanced by Emotion (c)
(c) Compassion
Thoughts Thinking (Free) Self Thoughts
(b) Realization of Misery
(d) Natural D uty (1)
(/) Natural Duty (2)
(j) Reason : understand­
ing
Self balanced and freed
by Thought (d) and
Emotion (c)
Self unbalanced by (/)
associated with (a)
(Escape from (a) and
Thought (j) restores
BALANCE)
(c) and (d) produce
Free-willed Thought
(e) Self-sacrifice
Lower Emotions Desire (Unfree) Self.
(Personal, Separate)
Lower Emotions
(1) Rebellion against Cir­
cumstances
(h) Dissatisfaction with
Self
Always identified with
Positive or Negative
Lower Emotion
Thought (/) and Con­
ditions (a) lead to (g)
“ Fellow-feeling”
CO N D ITIO N S O B JE C T IV E S E L F CO N D ITIO N S
(a)
(Acting Negatively)
Associates with
Conditions
(a)
Beggar and Child :
W et ; cold ;
indifferent crowd
(Acting Positively)
important lessons to be learned from it when treated as
illustrated.
Looking over my entries in Fig. 2 I note at once that the
first of the various Forces that stirred my Being is a particular
set of Conditions, of which the beggar and her child are the
B A L A N C E 105
chief items : Entry (a). By this entry an important law, upon
which later in the lesson I shall comment at greater length, is
revealed.
Into the Sphere of Ignorance delimited by Conditions (a) the
Self, the Perceiver, enters, and with the first fruits ofits outgoing
swings upon a current of negative Energy inward and upward,
and assumes in Consciousness the form of the thought :
Realization of Misery (b). Now, Energy, though its movement is
perceived in the form of the Swing ofBeing, does not in actuality
move thus, pendulum-like, but in a cyclic course. From its
negative association with Self it continues inward and upward
in its formless character into Deep Being, and in the same form­
less character re-enters the Sphere of Self on the positive side,
and in association with the Self moves in various positive forms
into outward expression. This is clearly indicated in Fig. 2,
for immediately succeeding Thought {b) comes the Higher
Emotion, Compassion (c), demonstrating that some results not
perceived in forms arising out of the contact of Self with
Conditions (a) have been swept up beyond the realm of the
Thinking Self into the plane of the Spiritual Self, and there
coming into association with the return current of Energy
have taken form as the positive Higher Emotion (c). Arising
from this understanding are many important implications :
searchfor them! (B)
Now, in Beings in which no Self is yet awake Energy moves
constantly upon a smooth, uninterrupted cyclic course,
exhibiting itself outwardly in whatever form of positive action
conditions call for, and inwardly in unconscious assimilation of
the results accruing from the action ; but in man the Self
intervenes and causes, or appears to cause, many forms of
irregularity in the flow. Fig. 2 demonstrates this fact. Com­
passion (c) (an association of positive Energy with a lofty but
undeveloped aspect of Self), if it had had a free course, un­
interrupted by any intrusion of the Thinking Self, would have
swept me out, perhaps through some nebulous Mental-
Emotional form, into parting with all the money in my
possession to the beggar. The reactions of the normal man
whom impulse such as this has swept into irrational action may
easily be imagined. But assuming that no negative, reflective
106 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
Self interrupted the ingoing stream of effects arising from the
action, these would in due time be brought home to me
painfully in the shape of new personal Objective Conditions—
in the intensified sufferings of my wife and child and in my own
impaired efficiency.
From this lesson, the truth of which needs not to be
emphasized, it would appear that Compassion, notwithstanding
its reputed, and indeed actual, lofty character, is in reality
nothing more than the half-blind response of an infant Self to
special Conditions. Without the conditioning influence of a
stable and developed Thinking Self Compassion would reduce
the man to the condition of a loving, sensitive child.
With me, in this experience, Compassion (c) is permitted no
free passage into positive manifestation. The Objective
Conditions (a) that excited it are shut out for a moment by the
crowd, and the subjective impression of them that lingers in
the form of Realization ofMisery (b) is associated by the Thinking
Self with my own main Conditions of life, of which wife and
child are the central landmarks. Into the Conditions thus
visualized, which are the Delimitators of the Sphere of Ignorance
which is my whole life, the outgoing Force of Compassion (c) is
naturally and inevitably drawn, and from the ensuing
association emerges the powerful negative realization— the
Thought Force which I call generically Natural Duty (d)—
with the result that my Central, or Thinking, Self becomes
balanced and, for the moment, freed from the power of the
initial Conditions (a).
When Conditions (a) become objectively apparent again,
it is a balanced Thought-Self that responds to them, and it
does so, in a definite, willed way, by deciding by means of a
certain sacrifice to dissipate them, as far as it is possible to do so.
[Self-sacrifice (e).) This thought (e) is an expression of positive
Free Will, possible only to a Self awake and balanced on its own
plane, but which at the same time elects to give forth such
measure of itself as the Conditions confronting it demand. Here
you may perceive an analogue of the highest law of Self-
conscious Being.
Were my Ruling Self better developed, and stabilized in
my rightful Sphere of Ignorance, my life— which is equivalent to
B A L A N C E 107
saying, were my awareness of Natural Duty (d) more powerful
— the experience would have ended then and there with an
unemotional gift of the shilling. But the analysis reveals that my
balance of Selfis not certain. The secondary experience of being
pushed off the pavement, and the thought of the consequences
that might result from my death, produce the second Thought
of Natural Duty (/). This, which is a sub-plane thought, part
thought and part emotion— an apprehension that the power of
Conditions (a) may compel me to abandon Duty— throws Self
out of balance and into a whirl. I have a confused Conscious­
ness that those compelling, threatening Conditions (a) must be
dissipated at any cost. Between them and negative realization
of my own Life-Conditions Self swings rapidly, with the result
that wife and child become identified with beggar and child.
The Lower Emotion I call Fellow-feeling (g) possesses me,
and impelled by it I break the power of Conditions (a) by a
gift much larger than I can afford. Fellow-feeling, it now appears,
is never really feeling for another, but for Self, which strives
to demolish Conditions of which the other person is merely a
Delimitator.
The gift made, the chain of Conditions broken, I manifest
my dim unselfconscious awareness of freedom gained in my
hurried departure from the scene of my experience. Then the
current of negative Energy laden with the results extracted
from the experience begins to rise within my Sphere of Self.
Dissatisfaction with Self (h) and Rebellion against Circum­
stances (i) may perhaps seem to be untypical emotions in the
circumstances, but in actual fact they are wholly typical. They
are merely aspects of the instinctive hatred which primitive
Being universally entertains towards that which has limited its
freedom.
Reasoned Understanding (j) completes this cycle of
experience, so far as we have it to observe, and restores balance
to the Self. Whether it is a true balance giving the Self final
freedom relative to the Conditions transcended is not revealed
by the analysis, and cannot be ascertained until the obvious
residue that remains unassimilated, and that passes over into
the main Sphere ofIgnorance in the shape of diminished means of
satisfying my own, and perhaps my dependents’, needs, has
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
108
been fully experienced. If I can meet this residual experience,
stably balanced in the Self, and deal with it with conscious
will, then I shall have freedom, henceforth, from the power of
Conditions such as have been depicted. I shall have found the
Soul, relative to them, in a balanced Self, and that balance
will give me freedom.
Actual exercises such as this I have sketched will be found
of immense help in balancing and freeing the Self relative to
any set of circumstances not fully experienced.
Let it be borne in mind, as the analysis itself reveals, that
Forces of a lofty impersonal character, to which the generic
name of Compassion may be given, are constantly pouring from
the Spiritual Planes, and from beyond, into the Plane of
Thought, in response to the call of Conditions, and urging the
Self into positive expression. If it fails to bring them to a focus,
or balance upon its own plane, it will always be liable to be
swept outward by them into unbalanced action in the manner
already fully illustrated. While it is so ruled it remains a
prisoner, and can neither rise to higher reaches in its own
Sphere or pass to Spheres higher still, nor yet express itself
positively in True-willed action. Its task must always be that of
establishing and maintaining a balance, and the one sure means
of doing this is found in the Thought-Power of NATURAL
DUTY. In the Exercise I have been considering I have shown
the balancing power of Natural Duty, though there the
Thought was not fully developed and controlled. To develop
and use it is the immediate work before you, and not until it is
done can you take a higher step.
From this it may be realized how important is the study and
practice of the VIRTUES, since in it the keynote is Natural
Duty. The present lesson and exercise is no substitute for that
study and practice, but only a means of reinforcing it and of
testing its results.
Notes on Conditions.
As already said elsewhere in this lesson, Conditions are not
the Sphere of Ignorance. It is Substance ; they are Powers, like all
other Powers positive and negative in character. They have
been called Delimitators, for they determine the place and
B A L A N C E 109
scope of the Sphere of Ignorance ; Teachers and Monitors, for
they point to the unknown and whisper to Self that there it
may find and know itself. They speak as itself, and Self goes to
them as to itself in every aspect that may link itself with
Energy. They are Compellers of action, and Distributors of
rewards of action. They are the Lords of the Powers, yet they
are the subjects, or manifestations, of other Lords of whom more
will be said in another lesson. In no way can the Self destroy or
escape their influence except by balancing it against itself. This
it can do, because as they attract they also repulse ; and the
way to do it is that taught in the precept: “ Whatever thy hand
findeth to do, do it with all thy might” Use their own power to
destroy them. When attracted by and involved in any set of
Conditions, throw yourself wholeheartedly into the task of
experiencing them to the utmost. The results that accrue from
this positive activity will take form as negative Powers and will
bear you away from the thrall ofthe Monitors, leaving them but
empty shells.
The foregoing advice applies first and foremost to those
major Conditions that delimit the Sphere ofIgnorancewhich is the
whole of an earth-life, but it holds good also as regards any
minor set of Conditions that may have definitely gripped the
Self, not merely attracted some wandering aspect of it. To
be able to carry it out obviously implies that Self has gained a
certain development, and knows what balance is, for the action
is a willed action. The law of work is taught in precepts such as,
“ Love Life, for he is the Great Teacher ; but love Death also,for he is
the otherSelfofLife who alone can teachyou nothing.”
That Sphere of Ignorance which is the whole life is delimited
by certain Conditions, but it is not simple in character ; it is
itselfcompounded ofa hostoflesser SpheresofIgnorance,eachwith
its own Delimitators. Unbalance of Self results when any lesser
set of Conditions, acting in isolation from the others, distracts
the attention of the Self from the lifework as a whole. To
counterbalance and destroy such rebellious Monitors give heed
always to the call of the Ruling Guides, and that call always
takes form in the Thought of Natural Duty.
To this advice it may be objected that the whole of life
cannot be seen, and that what Natural Duty may be, at any
IIO T H E O C C U L T W A Y
given time, cannot be certainly known. This is true, but it is
by no means necessary that the whole of life should be seen and
known comprehensively in order to discern where Natural
Duty lies. In the life of every man there are certain Monitors
that tower high above all others, and are always indicators of,
or symbols of, the true Sphere ofIgnorance. In the illustration we
have been considering wife and child are such Chief Monitors.
Others take the form ofthe laws ofone’s country, the established
code of orderly social life, universal moral standards (not mere
civilized conventions, which are but minor monitors), and so
forth. But in practice it is wholly unnecessary to go far afield in
search of Guides. You will find it a most profitable exercise to
devote ten minutes of each day for some weeks, or even
months, to the task of tracing out the influences that ramify
from those symbols of Natural Duty, wife and child. First
amazement, and then illumination, will become yours when
you discover through your own experience their enormous,
almost limitless, balancing power. The thoughtless may think
that to centre attention in mere duty to one’s family would
be to manifest a narrow selfishness, and so it may be for them ;
but this work is not for those who are unable or unwilling to
think : it is for those who have eyes capable of seeing, ears
capable of hearing, and minds capable of comprehending.
Search out the inner meaning of those words of a great
Teacher : “Inasmuch asye have done it unto the least of these . . .
yehave doneit unto ME.” (C)
Figure 3. Comments.
Before bringing this lesson to a conclusion let me direct
attention to Fig. 3. In it are shown three planes of conscious­
ness— the Initiate, the Neophyte, and the Personal, Separate,
or Desire Consciousness ; and upon each of these, the Self
freed, relatively speaking, through a balance established
between the polar Energies with which it associates.
The freedom which the Desire Self appears to have is
illusionary. Personal Man is wholly the slave of the Monitors.
He imagines that he can exercise Free Will because he is able
to declare : “ I may if I wish go into this form of activity, and I
may if I wish leave that.” But in fact he goes not out, neither
B AL ANC E I I I
does he withdraw through the action of any will of his own,
but merely in association with the purblind Powers of the
Emotional Plane which the Monitors invoke or evoke. They
call, and their power manifests in the primitive Sphere of
Self, in the form ofpositive Attraction towards Conditions, and takes
the Self out into objective activity. Again the Monitors com-
F ig u r e 3.
CO U N TE R B A L A N C IN G FORCES.
N E G A T IV E F R E E : B A LA N CED PO SITIV E
IN T U IT IO N IN IT IA T E
CONSCIOUSNESS
IN SP IR A TIO N
Comprehension
Spiritual Self
Manifests in
True-willed Action
Compassion
True Reasoned
Thought
Neophyte
Consciousness
Reasoned Motive
Understanding of
Natural D uty
True Thinking Self
Manifests in
Responsible Action
W ill to Serve
Emotional Satiety Personal Consciousness Em otional Appetite
Disgust with
Conditions
Desire Self
Manifests in
Irresponsible or Selfish
Intentions
Attraction towards
Conditions
Sense Repulsion Objective Consciousness Sense Attraction
“ The Monitors Dismiss” "T H E M ON ITORS” “ The Monitors Call"
Physical activity
decreasing
Sleep Physical activity
increasing
mand, and the response is Emotional Satiety, or Disgust with
Conditions. The Desire Self, held in its own narrow Sphere, is
quickly dissociated from the stream of negative Energy, and
remains centred in its own plane while Energy passes upward
and inward into Deep Being. The result may be called freedom
of a kind for the Self, but it is an indeterminate, somnolent
state, exhibited in irresponsible selfish intentions that never,
except by accident, manifest in action.
No real freeing of Self, no manifestation of Free Will, is
112 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
possible until Soul has been found, and that cannot be on the
Personal Plane, for there Soul is merely in the process of
growing. It is not until the man has transmuted the Sphere of
Ignorance known as the Personal, or Separate, Life into a Body
of Knowledge, and thus transcended it, that the Vision of the
Soul can be known. Through that Vision comes entrance into
Neophyteship, which may with equal justice be called True
Manhood.
With True Manhood comes a sense of responsibility to
LIFE, manifested, as illustrated (Fig. 3), in a freedom achieved
through establishment of a perfect balance between the
positive Powers, generically called Will to Serve, and the
negative Understanding of Natural Duty. Poised thus, the Self is
free and recognizes the meaning and purpose of the Personal
Sphere it has transcended— in other words it has transmuted
that Sphere into a Body of Knowledge wherein and wherewith
it perceives its own image, the Soul.
Let it be borne in mind that the Soul, the image revealed
in the Body of Knowledge derived from a cycle of experience
of Separate Selfhood, though it depends for its existence upon a
Reality, depends for its quality upon the Mirror that contains
it. In other words, though the Self, the Perceiver in the
Neophyte, is free and one with LIFE, that which it sees and
knows as itself, the image, is merely the essential Being of a
man who has found freedom from the ties of the purely separate
life, and no more.
In this new-found Soul of the Neophyte are focused the
male Power, Will to Serve, and the female Power, Awareness of
Natural Duty, and their union produces as offspring the Power
of true, Responsible Will. What in fact was the free, though
sleeping, Self of the Personal Man has now become the Soul,
the executive Power, or Will, of the True Man, or accepted
Neophyte.
The Vision, the Soul, the executive Power of Responsible
Will, once secured, must be retained by the Neophyte, otherwise
it is easy for him to fa ll; and retaining it means consciously and
steadily holding the opposing Powers at a focus. From the
deeper Spiritual Plane, of which in the higher, less stable
aspects of his Selfhood he is now clearly conscious, mighty
B A L A N C E ” 3
positive Powers, called generically Compassion, pour in upon
him, and he must not permit them to sweep him out into
irresponsible action, but must hold and balance them upon his
own Thought Plane by means of the Power ofAwareness ofDuty.
Similarly, owing to his expanded perceptions and wider Sphere,
an intensified flow of results from experience rushes back into
the Being, and takes form on Spiritual levels as Comprehension.
This female Spiritual Power, Comprehension, must be balanced by
the positive Will toServe, otherwise it will swing the Being into a
too-negative state— a lofty one, certainly, but none the less
passive, content with knowledge, but neglectful in applying
knowledge to the service of Life.
Perfect and sustained balance has the effect of freeing the
man wholly from the influence of the Lower Emotions, thus
making him master of objective Conditions in this world. All
his manifestations take place through the instrument of the
Soul, which to ordinary men appears to be the Personal Self.
They are direct, free-willed, responsible manifestations, the
offspring of the balanced forces, but to uninstructed observers
they still present the appearance of being inspired by positive
and negative Emotional Forces. In a certain sense these Forces
do act, but not as before, as masters : they act as limbs stretched
forth or withdrawn by the Soul according to the work it has
to do.
It is not necessary here to discuss the work and the
Consciousness of the Initiate. Sufficient understanding may be
gained through close study of Fig. 3. As already said, the
expositions I give are deliberately left incomplete in order to
stimulate thought and question. For a Beginner the present
lesson is admittedly a difficult one if approached wholly from
the philosophic side, but diligent practical work on the lines
suggested will quickly lead to understanding of the general
principles outlined. Until this has been gained, and until some
certain balance of the Power of Being has been established, no
attempt should be made to practise the exercises taught in the
next two lessons, for though to the uninstructed they may not
seem difficult it is impossible to profit from them unless the
Self is free, and is possessed of the Weapon of the Soul.
H
11 4 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
The Ancient One said:
By Four Marks you may know the MAN and the
WARRIOR, O Son, and these are they :
(1) . He sees that which even the vulture cannot see, for
the woes of the Children have dimmed his eyes with tears.
(2) . He hears that which even the sandhawk cannot hear,
for the shouts of the warring tribes of the world have deafened
his ears.
(3) . He speaks in the Council of the Ancients in tones like
the notes of a Golden Trumpet, far he cannot whisper an
answer to the War-cry of his foes.
(4) . He braves the flood of the River of Blood, and stands
on the further shore, naked, and clean, and fearless among the
assembled Ancients.
(The Sayings of the Ancient One).
Lesson V
INVOCATION
Balance between the positive and the negative Powers of
Being gives to the Aspirant Vision of the Soul, but that Vision,
if only a casual or isolated experience, will not suffice to make
the perceiver a Conscious agent of the Universal Law. The
Soul may be found, only to be lost again. The Neophyte may
stand upon the Threshold of the Temple Hall ready to enter
and become one of the hierarchy of skilled servitors that dwell
within, only to lose balance and fall back into Outer Darkness
the moment he essays a forward step. Within the life-span of
every man who has risen above the purely separate life of
Desire into the life of Thought there dawns a moment wherein
he sees and knows his Soul, but always it passes, and always
the Vision is forgotten except perhaps as the shadow ofa dream,
for the Self, the Seer, moves on into a new Sphere of Ignorance,
there in a new Swing of Being to begin the building of a new
Body of Knowledge, a mirror wherein in another day, perhaps
in another earth-life, the Vision may be seen again.
It is not the fact that he has found the Soul that makes the
finder a Conscious servant of the Law : it is the act offinding it.
It is not a single tremendous effort that is demanded of the
Aspirant, but a sustained will to live in harmony with the
LAW ofLIFE. The Soul is not a step to be taken and forgotten :
it is a Path to be travelled by ever taking a step. He who moves
ever with the onward flowing River of the Law, thinking only
of the motion of the stream, never of his own, is the Companion
of Eternity, but he who moves thus thinking of being borne
swiftly into a smooth haven is the Servant of Time. In Time man
swings unceasingly from gain to loss and from loss to gain, but
in Eternity there is stillness and everlasting gaining.
To express the idea more simply, if not more clearly : the
n 6 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
Neophyte who is really such, having created a balance between
the outgoing and ingoing Energies in which he manifests his
life, retains that balance by repeating without intermission the
effort that produced it, whereas the ordinary man who has
found an equilibrium through the processes of unconscious
growth loses it at once, and regains it only at the end of another
cycle of growth.
The foregoing statement may seem to a Beginner to con­
tradict the teaching given in Lesson IV. There it was taught that
the Self, when it has transmuted a Sphere of Ignorance into a
Body of Knowledge, passes onward, and that the Body with the
Image, the Soul, which it reflects, vanishes ; but it was also
taught that the Knowledge-Body, the Mirror of Self, though
lost in one sense was in another sense not lost at a ll; therefore
there is no contradiction. The Body, indeed, is lost inasmuch
as it is absorbed in and included in the new Sphere of Ignor­
ance, but it is also preserved inasmuch as it survives in that
Sphere in two aspects which delimit it or condition it to the use
of the Self, and in each of which the Self may continue to
behold its Image provided it applies them as they should be
applied in its new work.
Any power developed through any experience becomes a
factor determining the use Self makes of a succeeding Field of
Experience. Ordinary man loses sight of the power he develops,
and instead of taking possession of, and using it, as does the
conscious Aspirant, he allows it to possess and use him. Before
him and surrounding him he sees that “ Mirror that is called
the World of Men” , but instead of seeing in the multitudinous
images it reflects aspects of Soul developed in forgotten Spheres
of Ignorance, each a Monitor that points to the unknown and
shows what landmarks to follow in exploring it, he sees them
only as obstructions, thus admitting their power to bind him.
To those who live in the Time-Consciousness the transmuta­
tion of a Sphere of Ignorance into a Body of Knowledge must
of necessity appear to be a slow process. Yet it occurs, in
reality, literally with the speed of thought. A new Body of
Knowledge, a new Mirror of Self, comes into existence at every
transition of Being from a positive to a negative aspect. Obser­
vation ofthe swing ofa pendulum, a common material analogue
I N V O C A T I O N 117
of the process, may help to bring comprehension. The weight
as it swings from pole to pole passes each time through its
balance centre, the point from whence its motion began and in
which it must end when the power that produced it is ex­
hausted or withdrawn. A single swing from positive to nega­
tive pole, and return to the balance centre and rest, is sufficient
to produce the manifestation of apendulum. Exactly, analogously,
a single Swing of Being, or transition from positive to negative
manifestation of Being, suffices to complete the growth of a
Body of Knowledge, the Mirror of a Soul.
A further study of Fig. 3 may serve to reinforce under­
standing of the conception outlined in the foregoing paragraphs.
In the centre column the Self is shown freed on three planes.
The lowest is that of the purely personal, or separate, man,
the middle is that of the true man, or Neophyte, who has
become capable of abstract or impersonal thinking, and the
highest is that of the Adept or Initiate who has relative to his
human Sphere a Spiritual or Universal outlook. In the centre
column is shown also the Soul Power wielded on each plane,
mirrored in the Body of Knowledge furnished by the plane,
from the conditions of which the Self has become free. In the
right- and left-hand columns respectively, under generic names,
are listed the positive and negative Powers— the Energies with
which Self has become associated on each plane, but which,
when it is freed on that plane, it commands and uses. On the
highest plane the Initiate Self brings to a focus the negative
Spiritual Power of Comprehensionor intuitive understanding, and
the positive Spiritual Power of Compassion or urge to give of
Self to LIFE. The result of the equipoise thus established is
vision of and possession of the Weapon of the Spiritual Soul,
manifested in the Power of True-willed Action. That Soul
is the executive arm of the Adept. It is a single power, but may
be used directly in two opposing ways. Compassionate-Comprehen­
sion enables him who possesses it to go forth as a Spirit of pure
impersonal love in service of Life. Comprehending-Compassion
enables him equally to go upward and inward into wider wis­
dom and larger freedom. To express the conception in another
way, it may be said that the Adept is one who has fully experi­
enced the Sphere of Ignorance constituted of the two lower
n8 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
planes, and transmuted their substance into a Body of Know­
ledge : in the Power of Compassion he has gone out into, and
identified himselfwith, the Life of those planes, and as embodied
Comprehension he has risen out of them into freedom. Now
perfectly equilibrated, the two Powers give him detachment
from the influence of all lower Powers, and enable him to
exercise relative to the human Sphere the Soul-Power of True-
Wili— the Image of his Free Self reflected in the Knowledge
that Sphere has yielded up.
Analogously, upon the Plane of Thought, the plane upon
which the work of the Neophyte is done, Self is freed when the
Thought Powers called generically Will-to-Serve and Under-
standing-of-Duty are brought to a focus, and thus bring to
birth the Soul-Power of. Responsible Action. Possession of this
Power gives the Aspirant Free Will relative to the Sphere of
Ignorance delimited by the lower Emotions and separate,
personal Thoughts, and now transmuted into a Body of
Knowledge. Within the limits of that Body he can, using the
positive aspect of the Soul-Power that is his, go out freely in
service of mankind, and can, using its negative aspect, with­
draw in equal freedom into deeper Being and wider wisdom.
Now, as has already been pointed out elsewhere in these
lessons, Energies more powerful and more subtle than any
embodied on the human planes ceaselessly enter and cease­
lessly leave the Sphere of the Self. They belong to Deep Being,
and are always formless until Self in one or other of its protean
aspects associates with them and, linked by them with Sub­
stance, makes them embodied Powers. When therefore Self
withdraws, freed from the thrall of an outer Sphere, to another
that is deeper, it at once enters into association with those
hitherto formless Energies, and raises around it new hierarchies
of embodied Powers, which, if it does not hold them in equi­
poise and command them, will possess it and sweep it into
unbalanced action, and cause the Vision of the Soul to be lost.
For example, when the Aspirant using the negative aspect of
the Soul Power of Responsible Action lifts his Selfhood into
loftier sub-planes of Thought bordering upon the World of
Spirit, the Power upon which he rises, released from the con­
ditioning influence of the Body of Knowledge from whence it
I N V O C A T I O N 119
issues, expands, and, because its function is to bear the Self
into a new Sphere of Ignorance, sweeps it into a fresh Swing of
Being upward towards the negative Spiritual Power of Com­
prehension. A Spiritual illumination of Thought, of one degree
or another, follows, and this, when it has reached its culmina­
tion, swings over towards positive expression ; thus the Self
is brought into association with powerful outgoing Energies to
which it gives the form of an intensified Will to Serve, and which
if not at once held and balanced by a complementary Under­
standing of Duty may easily sweep the Being outward into one
form of unbalanced action or another, even into acts as mis­
conceived as those illustrated in Fig. 2.
It can therefore be seen that though, by balancing the
Powers of Being, the Self is given freedom to rise into wider
wisdom, yet any such rise is certain to lead to loss ofthe freedom
gained unless the effort that creates balance is repeated and
sustained.
In practice, therefore, true progress or sustained freedom
of Self may be said to be secured by incessantly creating a
balance between the dominating positive and negative Powers
of Being. Knowledge of the Law thus revealed gives immediate
understanding of the paradoxical aphorism of the ancient
Hermetists :
Strive to move and thou wilt fall.
Strive to be still and thou wilt move.
Ignorance of or forgetfulness of this Law is the most fruit­
ful of the innumerable causes of the disturbances, failures, and
disasters that afflict almost all who attempt to tread the Occult
Way. In a sense it is the only cause. The great Christian Mystics
have written feelingly of a state called by one of the greatest
amongst them the “Dark night of the Soul” . Spiritual Night
descends upon the Aspirant who by an intense inpouring of
negative Energy has been carried upward even into Divine
Vision, but who, unable to find equipoise ofBeing at that height,
falls quickly into the equally powerful stream of positive
Energy, and is by it swept helplessly outward into what to him
appears irretrievable disaster— into narrow Spheres of personal
selfliood, from out of which after years of pain and labour he
%
120 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
may perhaps rise again, but which more often, because of his
ignorance of the Science of Life, hold him bound throughout
his earthly existence in what is true Purgatory.
Because every successive focusing of the Powers of Being
bringing Vision of the Soul and new freedom to Self calls into
existence new hierarchies of embodied Energies of increasing
potency the effort is known as INVOCATION. When the
Soul has been found upon the Plane of Thought, and when the
Candidate has become an accepted Neophyte, the MASTER
confers upon him the Privilege of Invocation. It is a privilege, for
it means drawing to the Self that which is higher than self;
yet it is also a right which is earned by obedience to the LAW
of LIFE. But to avail himself of the right and privilege he has
earned is for the Learner a task not to be lightly approached,
for it means entry into a time of testing. Conscious progress is
always a testing, but this that has now to be encountered is of
a special nature, far more intense and far more subtle than any
previously experienced. It is a necessary preparation for the
penultimate step that every Aspirant must take before he reaches
the Threshold of the Gates of Gold and gives the knock which
if rightly given admits him into Discipleship and the Way of the
Spirit. Like every step, low or high, this testing comes through
experience, and the Fields wherein it is sought must be new and
rich to yield the rich harvest desired.
Modes of Invocation.
O f modes of Invocation known to and practised by advanced
Occultists there is to their number scarcely any limit, but for
you, who are as yet only a Learner, and without an experienced
Guide by your side to direct your every step and check the
results, only a few ofthe number are readily available and profit­
able and safe to use. Four methods of invoking power are
briefly described in the present lesson, and hints given as to the
most fruitful modes of utilizing them. If you study them closely
and apply them intelligently, always bearing in mind what the
preceding lessons have taught, you cannot fail to profit. If you
work diligently, thinking not of results but of the work, know­
ledge ofyour own will grow up within you and will tell you how,
more and more, to make your efforts effective. Such knowledge
I N V O C A T I O N 121
will serve you infinitely better than any instruction that may
be given by a teacher, for the teacher can only point the way
and mark its bounds ; the Learner must traverse it for himself.
The Guardian Lords.
The Fields of Experience through which power may be
invoked, which I shall describe in this lesson, are as follows :
(i) Study of the Scriptures. (2) Study of Poetry, Music, and
Art. (3) Study of Nature. (4) Ceremonial Magic. (A)
Now, enclosing every Sphere of Ignorance into which Self
enters, or into which it may enter, there are, as already indi­
cated in this and in the last lesson, influences or forces called
Monitors, Delimitators, and similar names, which, by means
of the attraction and repulsion they exercise, continually con­
dition the Self in its explorations. Behind these Monitors,
no matter what appearances they present, stand their Creators,
or Emanators— four hierarchies of Powers called by the
Adepts of old the Guardian Lords. They are Sound, Colour,
Number {orrhythm), and Idea {orform). There is nothing objective
or subjective in all manifest Life that is not a synthesis com­
posed of these four elements in varying proportions. All four
exist in every Field of Experience, but in any particular Field
one of the four always dominates the rest, hence the title they
are given. When, as we are now preparing to do, we seek out
special Fields of Experience for special purposes, it is most
essential that we recognize the Lords that hold sway in them,
and more especially the Ruling Lord in each, and strive always
to utilize their power, not bring ourselves into conflict with it.
Over the Fields now chosen for exploration the Guardian
Lords rule in the general order of precedence shown below :
Scripture :
Poetry :
M usic :
A r t:
Nature :
Ceremonial
(1) Idea.
(1) Number.
(1) Sound.
(1) Colour.
(1) Idea.
(1) Magic.
(2) Sound.
(2) Sound.
(2) Number.
(2) Idea.
(2) Colour.
(3) Number.
(3) Idea.
(3) Colour.
(3) Number.
(3) Sound.
(4) Colour.
(4) Colour.
(4) Idea.
(4) Sound.
(4) Number.
The order varies according to the knowledge and will of
the practitioner, but basically it is the same as that which pre­
vails in Nature. The same may be said of all Fields, though in
a much less marked degree. (B)
122 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
Scripture Study.
By the term Scripture or Scriptures is meant something of
much wider range than those writings held sacred by Jews and
Christians, and thus commonly named. Any written attempt
made by a teacher to express such knowledge as he may have
gained concerning the hidden truths of Life, and to teach others
the Law of Living, is a Scripture. Religious, theological, and
philosophical writings that are speculative or merely dogmatic
are not Scriptures. For a writing to be Scriptural the writer, or
the Teacher whose words are recorded, must be one who has
risen above individual considerations, and one whose mind has
become illuminated by the commingling of his Consciousness
with the Consciousness of a Being that has transcended the
human Sphere ; and not merely that— he must speak not as a
man but as an instrument that the Higher Consciousness uses
to carry its Light into the world.
It is important to understand that all that may be spoken or
written by an Adept teacher does not necessarily emanate from
the Sphere of the Spirit. “ The Adept is not always an Adept” : so
it has actually been stated of himself by one known to wield
Adept powers, and so it is understood by all who have gained
true understanding. No matter how far advanced a man may
be, while he wears a human form he will in ordinary human
intercourse act and speak as does the ordinary man : as a man
of outstanding insight and capacity, no doubt, yet without any
Spiritual authority. O f the Learner, therefore, who approaches
the Study of Scripture for invocatory purposes, discrimination
is demanded, for without ability to select that which is Spiritual
and reject that which may be but intellectual he may labour
long and find no profit. In your early efforts you may be helped
by one of greater experience who can direct you to books that
contain the true Light, but ultimately you and all pilgrims must
take your own way alone and unaided. Not until you can do so
will you reap from the Fields you enter a full harvest of Truth.
For none is there any escape from the Law expressed in the
words : “ To him who hath shall he given” . I may tell you that if
you walk in this Path the Light will shine upon you, but I can­
not give you eyes that can see i t : I can only hope that the power
it pours around you may one day wake in you the gift ofsight.
I N V O C A T I O N 123
O f true Spiritual Scriptures the number available for study
by the Western student is not large, but what there are of them
are all sufficient, if utilized, to give you all the experience you
need in this life, no matter what your diligence and receptivity.
The majority of true Scriptures come from the East, and can
seldom be studied except in the form of translations ; in en­
deavouring to decide which translation to select for study you
will encounter your first difficulty. In the translator of an
ordinary book scholarship and linguistic ability are attributes
of the highest importance, but in the translator of a Scripture
they are but secondary. In him, perception of the Spirit em­
bodied in the work he handles comes before all else, but if to
that he can also add knowledge of the language, scholarship,
and literary ability the value of his work will be greatly en­
hanced. Nevertheless defects in a translator, though they make
a Scripture less useful to a Beginner in the study, can never
wholly obscure the Light of Truth it contains : it will, no
matter how veiled to ordinary perceptions, always remain
visible to the eye of the true Seeker. Nowhere is this more
evident than in the Christian Bible. There the Message appears
clouded and marred by the hands and minds of many different
translators and interpreters, and not merely that, but also by the
hands of men who did not scruple to alter or suppress the
words of the Teacher, and for them to substitute their own, with
intent to justify some sectarian or personal policy. Yet for all
this, for those of vision, the Light of the Spirit shines through­
out the Bible, and in many parts blazes forth so brilliantly that
even the blind become conscious of its presence.
O f other ancient Eastern Scriptures, such as the Upanishads
and The Bhagavad Gita of India, The Divine Pymander, and other
Hermetic fragments, it may be said that all have suffered at the
hands of translators, though to a much lesser extent than has
the Bible. In their case, however, unlike the Bible, the wrong
lies less with the Christian, or at least European, translators,
and more with ignorant followers of the original Teachers, and
with the priests of the many sects that grew up around their
names and teachings.
Because of this difficulty in procuring really reliable ver­
sions of the great Oriental Scriptures I advise the Learner to
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
124
confine himselfin his early attempts at invoking power through
Scripture Study to such illuminated works by modern Western
Teachers as are obtainable. In choosing these some experienced
guidance is even more necessary than in choosing translations
of ancient Scriptures. The modern Theosophical Movement,
initiated by H. P. Blavatsky sixty years ago, has, through the
almost innumerable branchlets into which it has split, produced
a vast flood ofliterature dealing with things occult and spiritual.
O f this the authors, though in many instances claiming Adept
guidance and even inspiration from the loftiest Spiritual sources,
were, and indeed are, with a few rare exceptions, either ignorant
copyists, self-seeking charlatans, or self-deluded psychics, and
often a curious compound of the three. Because of this the
Learner should rigidly restrict himselfto study of modern works
that are really Scriptural, of which a list is appended to this
lesson, at least until such time arrives when his own developed
intuition gives him power to select instruments for himself.
In the appended list I give also the titles of certain Eastern
Scriptures and the names of their translators, and other informa­
tion useful to a Beginner in the practice of Invocation.
Rules of Study.
Having selected a Scripture for study as a means ofinvoking
Spiritual Power, observe the following rules when using it.
Always hold firmly in mind the thought that you are not
seeking intellectual understanding of Life, nor yet laws of
living, but Spiritual Power.
Put forth no greater intellectual effort than suffices to
enable you to grasp the sense of the words you read, and strive
not to build up complex three-dimensional images in the mind
from any form of understanding that may impinge upon your
consciousness. Images will of necessity form in the mind as you
study, but they will remain nebulous if you refuse to dwell upon
them and allow them to lead you into intellectual speculation.
If you permit yourself to dwell upon them, and indulge in
speculations concerning their meaning, they will draw to them­
selves and absorb the power called forth ; and instead of being
raised into a loftier freedom you will find yourself imprisoned
more firmly than before.
I N V O C A T I O N 125
The Power you are seeking exists in the Teachings and in
that which teaches— not in you, the Self that is being taught.
To gain that Power strive to be i t : imagine yourself into it
and endeavour tofeel, not to think, that you are the Voice that
speaks and that which it declares in speech, not that which is
addressed1
.
The man of intellect is confused and confounded by sayings
such as those that follow :
Blessedare they that mourn,for theyshall be comforted.*
Blessed are the meek,for they shall inherit the earth.*
With this myselfI establish the whole Universe, andremainfor ever
separate.\
Kill out ambition. Work as those who are ambitious.%
Kill out all senseofseparateness. Yetstandalone andisolated.%
True Light lies hidden behind Giant Rocks, and its only approach
is through the Caverns of Mind.§
True Peace is encircled by seething whirlpools, and can be entered
only while Tempests rage.§
To the intellect each of these sayings appears to involve a
crass contradiction. Meekness may be “ blessed” , but the meek
most obviously do not possess the earth. If Krishna’s words are
true, that the Universe is created out of his own Being, then
it cannot be true that he remains for ever separate. No man who
is not ambitious has ever been known to work ambitiously.
The “ Caverns of Mind” , if the words mean anything at all,
cannot mean other than blank inactive aspects of intellect
through which “Light” cannot conceivably come.
Thus of necessity will the ordinary thinking man reason, or
puzzle, and as he does so, striving either to “make sense” of the
sayings or satisfactorily demonstrate their nonsense, the Power
that should be upraising him to higher levels of Consciousness is
being used up to build more firmly the prison wherein he dwells.
If you would bring to your aid the Powers of higher spheres
you must abandon mental activities such as I have sketched.
Let Aspiration take you upward into the Being of the Christ, of
Krishna, of the Teacher, of the Ancient One ; be yourself
* The Sermon on the Mount (Matthew, New Test.), f Krishna, in The
Bhagavad Gita. } Light on the Path. § The Sayings of The Ancient One,
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
126
the utterer of the words attributed to them, and soon, if not
immediately, you will feel the uplifting hands of superhuman
Powers touching and guiding you. Then also will you begin to
hear and understand the whisperings of the Voice of the Silence :
“7 mourn in a myriad imprisonments of myself” whispers the voice
of the Christ within, “ but I am comforted, for I am BEING and
the possessor of the keys of all prisons.” “ Meekly am I effaced in
my infinite manifestations, yet they are my dominions and I their
Lord.”
There you have the secret of Invocation. Scriptural rules
and precepts and teachings are not such in reality : they are
affirmations concerning the nature of Life made by a Being that
is one with LIFE. Who is there who has thought and observed
at all that does not know the strange power which even a feeble
human affirmation concerning the body has upon the health
of the body, and upon the Emotional principle that governs
the body ? And if such is recognized, may not something of the
Power invoked through affirmation of one’s identity with the
ALL-BEING also be recognized, even if only remotely and
dimly ?
Never read a Scripture as you read a common book, think­
ing that before you can grasp its full meaning and know what
effect it is designed to produce you must read it to the end.
No true Scripture has any real beginning or any real end.
Thought of end and of beginning drags the mind down into the
Time-Consciousness. It is wholly unnecessary to progress and
true comprehension for you to know every sentence, page, and
chapter that a Scripture may contain. One single precept from
The Bhagavad Gita, or from any other Scripture of similar status,
if truly understood, will suffice to give you comprehension of the
whole book. Why then, it may be asked, are the teachings given
in such books reiterated in such a host offorms ? The answer is :
Because LIFE is EVERBECOMING, ever expressing itself
in innumerable aspects of itself. This “ Procession of the SELF
in Self” revealed in all great Scriptures has also a highly im­
portant suggestive value for the student who approaches them
seeking their power.
Whenever conditions make it possible read or recite aloud
the passages which you are studying. Sound is one of the
I N V O C A T I O N 127
Guardian Lords : it is Power, and has its most potent manifesta­
tion through human voice and speech. The words and phrases
through which a Teacher of Spiritual Knowledge expresses
himself are chosen because of their sound-value as much as
because of their aptness in conveying ideas. Lack in a
translator of knowledge of the functions of the Guardian Lords
deprives many accurate and scholarly translations of Oriental
Scriptures of most of their value as instruments of Invocation.
Though the building up of purely intellectual conceptions
from your studies should be discouraged, the prohibition does
not apply to the growth of ideas that emerge upon Spiritual
planes of Consciousness. As your study proceeds you will fre­
quently find in the midst of a sentence, and sometimes in the
midst of a word, an awareness of understanding arising in the
deeps of your Being— an understanding in no wise due to any
of the familiar processes of intellection, but formed out of an
interplay of ideas somewhat akin in nature to instincts, yet
as much superior in authority to reasoned thought as instinct
is inferior to it. These intuitions, as they may be termed for lack
of a better name, should be allowed to rest upon the plane upon
which they have arisen,] there to develop or fade out of con­
sciousness, as the case may be, without any effort being made
to draw them down and possess them by means of the intellect.
They indicate the coming into existence ofan embryonic Spirit­
ual Self, and its association with lofty and hitherto formless
Energies. This Self, which is, as all other grades of Self are, of
many aspects, each a Spiritual Idea, will be shattered by the
touch of the Thinking Self, and wilhhave its power absorbed
by and dissipated among the Powers of the human Spheres.
True Invocation therefore does not, as is commonly under­
stood, mean summoning Powers to the side of the human Self,
but is rather the embodiment of formless Energies into new
Powers on a superior plane, through the instrumentality of a
new Self born upon, and native to, that plane. How the Central
Self should bear itself in relation to these Powers will be dealt
with more fully as the lesson proceeds. An ancient Hermetic
aphorism says :
“Invocation waters the buds of the Plant of Self: human study
appliesfresh mould to its root.” (C)
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
128
Poetry.
The rule that Invocation through Scripture study should
be practised only through the writings of Teachers of genuine
Spiritual knowledge holds good as regards the use of Poetry
also, where only poems of genius should be used. Genius and
Spiritual illumination are identical. Teacher, Poet, Musician,
Artist, true Nature-lover and true Scientist all draw their power
from a single transcendental point of Being. How they may
manifest it depends not upon its source but upon the steps its
manifestors have trodden on the Path of evolution of the Self—
in other words upon the nature of the instruments of expression
they have fashioned. Teacher and Poet are closely akin
in nature and function. Often they exchange functions, as may
be seen from the fact that the Lords of Sound or Number often
dominate in a Scripture, and those of Idea or Sound in a
poem. Between true Teacher and true Poet the chief dis­
tinction is that the latter sheds upon the world the Light he has
found because he loves the LIGHT, and the former strives to
evoke his Light in the world because he loves the world.
As with Teacher so with Poet : all that emanates from his
mouth or pen is not always of the same high quality. When
seeking a Poem as an instrument of Invocation discrimination
is demanded of the Learner even more stringently than when
selecting a Scripture, for the reason that nominal poets abound
far more plentifully than do nominal teachers. In the list I have
appended to this lesson I give the names of poets who have all
produced work illuminated by the Light of the Spirit, yet of
them, with the sole exception of the first listed, it is impossible
to say that they always wrote in this Light. Some measure of
intuition, therefore, needs to be developed in the Learner be­
fore he approaches Poetry as a means of invoking Power, and
this intuition is always most safely and most certainly acquired
through study of the Scriptures.
The rules that govern the practice of Invocation through
Poetry are in general similar to those that prevail in Invocation
through Scripture study. Affirm yourself the Poet in his mood
of inspiration, and be the expresser of the poem, not its reader
or hearer. Let the Rhythms, Sounds, and Ideas ring in your Con­
sciousness as your own, not as those ofanother. Number (rhythm)
I N V O C A T I O N 129
is chief Lord in this field, and through it that which you affirm
yourself to be has chiefly to be expressed. But Sound, though
placed second, may act as twin ruler with Number, and greatly
enhance its power ; and for this reason reading or reciting
Poetry aloud should be practised as extensively as possible. In
early attempts you may find results from reading aloud feeble
or entirely absent for many reasons, but chiefly because you,
like most English-speaking persons, have had no training in the
use of the voice, nor in emanating power in sound and rhythm.
Should you become conscious of lack of skill, do not think of
remedying your deficiencies by taking lessons in elocution, for
they will not help you. Continue your practice, forgetting as
far as possible your own shortcomings as a medium of the
Powers, but holding fast to your affirmation ofidentity with the
Poet in his hour of illumination. Persevere, and the time will
come when you begin intuitively to catch the true tones and
cadences, and the power of the Lords of Sound and Number
will move in you and begin to reinforce harmoniously the
power of Idea already present. A true Poem is always a chant
or a song, and should be read or recited as such, not according
to any order or scale of notation composed for you by another
or copied from the usage of another but by discovery of your
own appropriate notes, key, and cadences, prompted by the
Silent Voice that speaks within you.
Declamation after the manner of the ordinary “ trained
elocutionist” is completely destructive of the value of a poem as
an instrument of Invocation, because it is not Number and
Sound that rule in it, but rather the concrete idea, the gross
material form of the true Idea, and thus between the coarse
usurper and the true Hierarch an actual conflict is provoked.
There is a hint here which if followed up can lead into un­
suspected realms of Occult knowledge, but it is impossible to
develop it further in lessons such as these.
When with patient practice mastery of the instrument of
Poetry becomes more certainly yours you will find it be­
coming possible to utilize not merely the dominant Lords of
Sound and Number but also those of Idea and Colour. The power
ofthe latter always operates subjectively except in thosein whom
the psychic nature is specially strong, when the influence may
1
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
130
be perceived objectively. Gradually intuitive understanding of
what Numbers and Ideas correspond harmoniously with what
Sounds and Colours will come to you, but never let such dis­
covery be the goal towards which you work, or forget in
happiness in the instrument that the instrument is not the end
but the means.
Music.
In Music as in Poetry Number and Sound are in very many
instances twin ruling influences, but whereas in Poetry when
there is any predominance of a single Power it is Number that
takes it, in Music it is Sound. Among the secondary influences
in Poetry Idea dominates Colour, but in Music Colour dominates
Idea.
Because only a minority of Learners are practised instru­
mentalists Music as a means of Invocation is much less readily
available than is either Scripture or Poetry. As an instrument
also it is less easy to handle and control, for between the would-
be user and the LIFE behind which he aspires, or should aspire,
to touch through such use there stands not only the Being of
the composer but also that of the executant musician. That
which reaches the hands of the Aspirant, therefore, is always
coloured by the individualities of others in a way in which
Scripture and Poetry are not.
Accordingly, although the rules of Invocation as already
laid down apply in a general way to the use of all instruments
they are subject to various modifications according to the special
nature of that to which they apply. In Scripture or Poetry it is
with the lofty, pure, Spiritual Soul of Teacher or Poet that
identification of Self is sought. In Music, on the other hand, for
the reasons given, identification should not be sought with any
human Soul however lofty, but with the Powers of Sound and
Number themselves, which Powers, though they are called Lords,
are simply the high spiritual, unindividualized (as far as the
human Sphere is concerned) aspects of the Soul-Power of a
Being whose nature is all-embracing and omnipresent in our
worlds. (»)
Affirmation of identity is therefore to be made with a Being
to whom the name of Soundor Number is given, but who to the
I N V O C A T I O N 131
Neophyte is actually wholly unknown, or apprehended only as
a far-felt formless Idea— an effort which, as can easily be
realized, is highly difficult, and may well be unsafe to make.
It should, in fact, not be made until Intuition is well developed,
and stabilized by diligent exercise with the instruments ofPoetry
and Scripture. If indulged in prematurely by one of a nature at
all sensitive there is danger of a too-eager and sudden surrender
of Being to those remote and subtle Powers, resulting in
(temporary) loss and absorption of Self in Deep Being, and a
simultaneous waking on human levels of the Dream or Psychic
Self. O f such a break, or transition of Consciousness, there is
always a risk in every form of Invocation attempted by unpre­
pared persons, though not a serious one for those of normal
sensibilities. For this reason Learners have already been warned
in the preliminary lesson of this series not to proceed beyond
Lesson IV until it and its predecessors have been thoroughly
mastered. The Occult Way, as taught in these lessons, is entirely
safe if followed step by step as directed, but no way that is in
any real sense occult can be made safe for the rash and foolish.
Psychism, or psychic states, are always traps into which the un­
prepared, the unguided, and the misled Aspirant may fall;
but I do not speak to such as he in these lessons, and conse­
quently shall not, at least in the body of my instructions and
expositions, give anything more than hints such as those just
given concerning the dangers he may meet.
Sensitiveness is necessarily increased by the practice of
Invocation, no matter through what means it is pursued, and
for this reason the Neophyte who lives surrounded by the
influences of our unnatural and unbalanced civilized life must
look to meet assaults tending to unbalance his Being of which
the man of dull perceptions knows nothing. When power is
sought through the agency of the Lord of Sound, as it is when
Music is taken up as an instrument of Invocation, the Learner
will quickly discover how open to unexpected attack he has
become. In city life, at least, Music, or what is called by that
name, impinges almost incessantly upon the Consciousness, and
the effects produced by it should make it obvious that the in­
fluence of the Guardian Lords is by no means always an
uplifting force. These Hierarchies have innumerable"aspects,
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
132
and though benevolent when emanated by the Soul of Genius
may at other times be the reverse. Ordinary “ music” is far more
often a disturbing, or even a definitely lowering, power than a
unifying and elevating one ; therefore arm yourself against it,
not by bracing the will to resist its assaults but by holding
steadily the Will to Serve balanced against Understanding ofDuty.
This is a testing.
Art.
All that has been said of Music applies equally to Art, by
which term is meant the art of the painter, except that in the
latter the order of precedence of the Lords is reversed, Colour
and Idea predominating over Number and Sound. The advice as
to the right use of Sound, and the warnings as to its possible
adverse influence, apply with equal force to Colour.
Nature Study.
O f all instruments of Invocation that of unspoiled Nature is
the most true, safe, and effective, but unhappily in our civilized
world it is the one least available to the Neophyte. Except in
isolated aspects it is practically out of reach of the city-dweller,
and even in the country it is not easy to find it unadulterated
by the mind and uncorrupted by the hand of man.
Although in Nature the Guardian Lords are said to precede
one another in influence, in a certain order, Idea in the sense of
form coming first, in reality neither of the four can be regarded
as permanently dominant in her Being as a whole. Even in her
separated aspects Colour, Sound, Number, and Idea continually
give place one to another without strife, so that to the Aspirant
who through her aid strives to invoke the power of the Spiritual
Soul Nature will present herself now as a painting, now as a
musical composition, now as a poem, now as a Scripture, and
again— and this is her highest aspect— as a synthesis in which
each of those instruments plays an equal part, but a loftier
part than either can play alone.
Invocation through Nature is rather for the more advanced
Occultist whose lot in life, created by himself by past labours,
is cast far away from cities and unthinking crowds, than for one
just barely entered into Neophyteship. The Neophyte has but
I N V O C A T I O N 133
seldom earned the privilege of using so perfect an instrument,
and seldom does he possess the intuition needed if it is to be
utilized effectively.
Those who would invoke the Powers of Deep Being through
the instrument ofNature need no rules to guide them other than
those already given. Approach Nature not as a curious observer,
not as an admirer, not even as an ardent worshipper, but let
her myriad perfections absorb your Being, and affirm yourself
THAT which shines behind them. Imagine yourself THAT
which is the chant in the wind, the music in the note of bird
and in the fall ofwater : be THAT which speaks of the mystery
of Eternal BEING in the budding forth and the withering of
the tiniest flower. But do not mistake me when I say imagine,
for I do not mean by the word the common mental picture­
making usually known as imagination. I speak of a species of
effort which though it has a transcendental analogy with ordin­
ary imagination produces no forms in consciousness : it has
been described by a modern sage as “ the inexpressibleyearning
of the inner man to goforth into the infinite” .
With some justice it may be complained that teachings like
the foregoing are of little help to Beginners seeking to master
the technique of Invocation, but the truth is that this cannot
be taught. It may be learned if one has reached that step in
progress whence real learning becomes possible ; but that step
can be reached only by taking one by one all the steps indicated,
in earlier lessons, thinking not to avoid any. The Keys of the
Inner Path have been placed in your hands : be the user of
whatever instrument or power comes to you ; think not of its
quality nor of the results that may accrue to you from using it,
for they also are instruments to be used, worn out, and for­
gotten : thus will you learn.
Ceremonial Magic.
Rightly understood and rightly used, Ceremonial Magic
is the most effective and powerful instrument of Invocation
immediately available to the Neophyte. The most perfect
instrument of all is Nature, but Nature, as already pointed out,
is largely beyond the reach ofthe Beginner, and may be touched
only occasionally and tentatively. Nature also as an instrument
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
134
has two aspects : the first, which has been commented upon, and
another wider and higher which will form the subject of the
final lesson of this series. Study of the first aspect will not lead
to real mastery of the instrument of Nature, but it will help
greatly towards true understanding of, and safe and effective
use of, Ceremonial Magic. In its turn the latter, though as a
step not actually essential, will prove a help when the time
comes for study of Natural Magic.
Let it, at the outset, be very clearly understood that as far
as the Learner in his present stage of progress is concerned
Temple observations and Ritual, called together Ceremonial
Magic, have no purpose whatsoever other than as a means of
invoking Spiritual Power. They may be, and constantly are,
used for quite different purposes— for evoking lower powers, for
effecting temporary changes in the character, and so forth, but
their use in such ways is fraught with many dangers unless the
user has an Initiate’s knowledge and power. Even when used
for professedly invocatory purposes, there is always some risk
to the Neophyte unless he himself is the operator, for another
who acts as “Hierophant” on his behalf may be impure of
motive, or even if pure may lack knowledge and skill. It is
always safest therefore to avoid Magic in any of its forms until
development of spiritual Comprehension gives you power to
act as your own hierophant. All that I shall say, and that
rightly can be said, concerning Magic in these lessons is in­
tended to help you towards becoming a minister to the Self,
and no more.
Ceremonial Magic, like Nature, is really a synthesis of
Scripture, Poetry, Music, Art, but unlike Nature it is a man­
made instrument. The Guardian Lords of Colour, Sound, Number,
and Idea are in it assembled together in such relative order and
proportion that the power of each as an elevator of Con­
sciousness is reinforced by that of every other. Thus when the
instrument is created by expert hands a miniature world— a
concentrated epitomeof thelargerworld ofNature— isfashioned.
Very aptly it has been said that Ceremonial Magic is a Distilla­
tion of Nature, but in the definition truth and a warning are
intermingled. A distillation is an expression by artificial pro­
cesses of certain essences from out of natural products, and it
I N V O C A T I O N 135
depends altogether upon the intention of the distiller and upon
the skill with which he selects and compounds his materials
whether he distils a life-giving spirit or a poisonous potion.
Thus it is with the fashioner of an instrument of Ceremonial
Magic.
In applying the instrument of Ceremonial Magic observe
the following rules, or rather hints :
For your practice have a room not used for any other
purposes set aside, if at all possible. If not possible, then have
one that when arranged as required can be left undisturbed by
the presence of others, and even by your own, for twelve hours
prior to your using it for invocatory practices.
It is obvious that in this first rule the average Learner may
encounter an obstacle difficult to surmount, for it may be im­
possible for him to secure a room that will conform to the
conditions outlined. The rule, however, cannot be abrogated
or modified. Good results cannot be secured in a room used
for everyday purposes, because although its furnishings and
ornaments may be changed, its basic outlines will remain.
These latter, because habitually associated in the Conscious­
ness with happenings and ideas not at all Spiritual, will exer­
cise an obstructive suggestive influence over the mind sufficient
to prevent any free withdrawal of the Self. Worse still, because
the specially created conditions tend to free the Self, and the
permanent conditions to hold it, an inner conflict will result,
and may be productive not merely of disturbance of Being but
even of serious injury. If therefore no suitable room is obtain­
able, be content with the best use you can make of other
instruments and leave Ceremonial Magic aside.
Robing the room for ceremonial purposes is an art that can
be acquired only through long experience, and cannot possibly
be taught in lessons such as these. For the simple invocatory
exercises of a Neophyte, enough should have been learned from
the work done through Art and Nature to enable you with the
aid of the following hints to create effective conditions for
yourself.
Throw your mind back into your invocatory experiences
through the media of Art and Nature, and recall what basic
Colours there were in them that helped to free your higher
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
136
imagination. Upon a calm June afternoon you surveyed a cer­
tain peaceful country scene of hills and woods and streams :
what were its basic colours ? A mosaic of varied greens below,
a golden light bathing the whole, and a vault of blue flecked
with amethyst and rose and white impending upon it from
above. Subsidiary colours will also be recalled, but those named
suffice. Gather those colours in similar groupings and inter­
relationships into your Temple.
In invocatory ceremonials the altar stands to the East and
may be robed in white, or green, or yellow, or red, as intuition
directs. If you read or hear elsewhere that the altar should
occupy the centre of the Temple, know that the rite has a
purpose other than that of Invocation of Spiritual Powers.
Light rises in the East: therefore upon the altar is placed
a symbolic light.
In this instrument Idea is normally the Ruling Lord, and
for this reason symbols, which are the most potent means of
summoning him, occupy a prominent place in the furnishings
of the Temple. To serve the needs of a Learner, however, they
need but be few in number and simple in character. Study of
symbols is in itself a powerful secondary instrument of invoca­
tion, and in more advanced stages of Occult progress has to be
taken up systematically, for if a symbol is to produce its due
elevating effect the Consciousness has to become conditioned
to it. In early efforts be content with traditional symbols of
simple geometrical patterns, such as the various Crosses,
Pentagrams, Hexagrams, and Triangles, the significance of
which, in a broad, general way, is not difficult to grasp.
Next item to engage attention should be the construction
of the Ritual to be enacted in your Temple. For it take as model
the Rite which Nature herself perpetually celebrates. To this
add as intuition directs appropriate Sounds and Numbers
(rhythms).
From out of darkness and formlessness into fight and form
all things always emerge : let your rite begin in darkness
accompanied by a chant suggestive of the state from whence
it emanates. The instrument of Scripture or of Poetry here
comes into use. Dawn follows with a shining forth of fight, a
louder chant, and the rhythmic movement of waking Life.
I N V O C A T I O N 137
At Noon light is strongest and shadow deepest, and the phase
is fitly symbolized in sonorous prose periods and stately
rhythms. Thus may the rite move onward to its close in evening,
when light departs and silence and stillness reign again.
The intelligent Learner who has done the work taught in
the preceding lessons, and has learned through it and through
philosophic study of Life to understand the cyclic movement of
Everbecoming Being, should need no more than these hints to
enable him with a little practice to prepare and use a very
effective instrument of Invocation. Such practice, or tentative
effort, is in itself a valuable exercise out of which unexpected
knowledge often arises. Working with your own creation, no
matter how imperfect it may be at first, has many advantages,
chief of which is that it is a direct and powerful suggestion of
that State of Being you should ever strive to achieve while
wielding an instrument of Invocation. Silently your Temple
and your Rite declare themselves your emanated servants, and
as you take them up and use them you declare yourself Lord
and Emanator ofthe Powers ofwhich they are embodiments.
Concluding Comments.
Invocation no matter how pursued means bringing a
budding Self into association with high formless Energies
belonging to Deep Being, and results always in the manifes­
tation of a new Power. That any awareness of such a Power, or
of intensified knowledge of any kind, is followed at once by a
powerful urge to express it the intelligent Learner need hardly
be reminded. With the appearance of such an urge comes a
time of testing, for the Energy it represents must not be given
free rein, else it will sweep the Being into unbalanced action
and dissipate itself unprofitably in lower Spheres of Self. The
newly embodied higher Energy, or aspect of the Spiritual Soul
(for it is both), must, as it enters the Sphere of the Thinking
Self on its way towards outward expression, be seized and held
by the freed and balanced Self, whose realm is that Sphere,
and added to the Body of Knowledge already possessed. In
this way, and in this only, will a Power developed through an
act of Invocation become an addition to the Powers of the Self
giving it a wider freedom.
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
138
The great and perpetually repeated error of the unin­
structed Aspirant, the moment a new spark of understanding
dawns within him, is that he rushes forth instantly into expres­
sion of it, to teach, to help (as he thinks), to share with the
world what he imagines he possesses, but which, as should now
be understood, was never really his. This new Self rushing
blindly into expression is not the true, free, Central Self but
only an undeveloped infant, lofty, admittedly, but wholly
unbalanced. Probably ninety-nine per cent of the scattering of
Spiritual Energies, and the shattering of Spiritual works pain­
fully raised by the labour of Wise men, has occurred, and
occurs, through the actions of untrained Aspirants motivated
as outlined. Never be in haste to express knowledge, no matter
how brilliant the spark that reaches you may be. You can
exercise no true Power or true Wisdom outside the scope of the
Body of Knowledge out ofwhich you, the Freed Self, have risen.
Within the limits of that Body you have freedom, and the
Power that comes from seeing all things in just relative pro­
portion as inseparable aspects of a whole.
Never when conscious of a glow of Power use that Power to
influence another, even for what you conceive to be his good.
When you are the passed Magician you will know how to give
true help ; but to influence another in your present undeveloped
state will but rob him without in any way enriching yourself.
It has been said that it is infinitely better (and harder) to
love your neighbour as yourself than to persuade, by any
power you may bring to bear upon him, a warlike Emperor to
love peace.
Should you feel, as is very possible, that one selfishly
deprives others of benefits by thus conserving knowledge and
power unto oneself, pause and reflect that there is but ONE
BEING of which you and all are expressions, and that there­
fore you can in no way better help others than by waking
within your Being that SELF which is ALL.
“Desire only that which is within you.
Desire only that which is beyond you.
Desire only that which is unattainable.
I N V O C A T I O N 139
For within you is the light of the world— the only light
that can be shed upon the Path. If you cannot see it within
you it is useless to look for it elsewhere. It is beyond you ;
because when you have reached it you have lost yourself. It
is unattainable because it for ever recedes. You will enter the
light but you will never touch the flame.”
(Light on the Path.)
Poetic and Scriptural Works Recommended:
Scriptures (Modern) :
Devotional :
P hilosophic :
Oriental (Translations) :
Poetry (Modem) :*
Light on the Path (Mabel Collins).
The Perfect Way (Anna Kingsford).
Clothed with the Sun (Anna Kingsford).
The Vow of Poverty (Jasper Niemand).
Letters that have Helped M e (W. Q. Judge).
The Candle of Vision (A. E.).
Song and its Fountains (A. E.).
The Sayings of the Ancient One (P. G. Bowen).
The Secret Doctrine (H. P. Blavatsky).
Teachings and Parables of Jesus (New Test.).
Pauline Epistles (New Test., Authorized
Version).
The Bhagavad Gita (Charles Johnston).
The Bhagavad Gita (W. Q. Judge).
The Great Upanishads (Charles Johnston).
The Voice of the Silence (H. P. Blavatsky).
The Divine Pymander of Hermes (Everard).
Collected Poems (A. E.).
The House of the Titans (A. E.).
Works of Shelley.
,, „ Swinburne.
,, ,, Browning.
,, ,, Keats.
* Many other poets, notably Tennyson and Wordsworth, have produced
poems of genius, but for some mysterious reason they lack the fire needed in
an invocatory instrument.
Lesson VI
EVOCATION
Kill out ambition.
Kill out desire of life.
Kill out desire ofcomfort.
Work as those who are ambitious.
Respect life as those who desire it.
Be happy as those who livefor happiness.
(Light on the Path.)
Among the many earnest students of Occultism who read and
meditate upon the above quoted precepts and kindred aphor­
isms from the same book and from other Scriptures, few indeed
understand their true meaning and application. Fewer still
realize that the second three are not merely of equal impor­
tance with the first but that their practice marks a stage of
progress more advanced than that marked by practice of their
predecessors. For this ignorance teachers who profess to teach
while yet lacking true knowledge of their own are mainly
responsible. True knowledge is obtained by patiently treading
every step of the Way that leads towards the PATH, omitting
none, and in no other way. The inexperienced may under­
stand, intellectually at least, that separative desires such as
ambition are obstacles that must be destroyed, but rarely or
never do they realize that no power in the Universe can be
obliterated without raising another power in its place. Lives
are wasted fruitlessly battling with forces which are never
conquered or destroyed, but don a new disguise when chal­
lenged, and remain in essence for ever the same. O f this truth
experience alone gives knowledge, and experience alone leads
to the further truth that it is not the shapes and names of
Powers that have to be changed but the place relative to them
140
E V O C A T I O N 141
which the Self occupies. Can the Power of Ambition actually
be destroyed ? It cannot; but the Separate Self that is pos­
sessed by Ambition and identified with it can be deposed from
its rulership of the Being, and another and non-separate Self
that possesses all desires in the shape of aspects of itself can be
exalted into Kingship. Ambition may then no longer manifest
the Man, but the Man if he so wills may manifest an aspect of
himselfthat bears the name of Ambition.
True Occultism is the Science of Life, through which comes
mastery of the Art of Living. Without scientific knowledge the
Aspirant, no matter how excellent his intentions, is always
liable to be swung from the strait Path into one or other of the
twin whirlpools, the Scylla of Psychism or the Charybdis of
Mysticism. O f the danger of the first you, the Learner, have
already been warned, but you have not learned that Mysticism,
though it is of a far loftier nature, can, because of that very
fact, prove a graver and more subtle danger. Little suspected, it
lies in wait as a snare for all who, having attained to Invocation,
rest in it, as in a harbour gained, and forget to recognize it for
what it is, a step only, meant to lead to a higher. The Teacher
who speaks in the name of The Ancient One warns his pupil
thus : “Rest upon no step however high ; ifyou do it will change and
become a snare.” It is a warning which the Mystic forgets if it
has ever reached his ear. He yearns for union with the Divine,
and thinks that there he will find final rest and peace, knowing
not, and heeding not, the warning that in attaining his ambition
he is but entering another prison. True he may thus enjoy an
eon of slothful bliss, but at last the LAW will cast him forth
again, and wake him to the truth that he is but a loiterer upon
and an obstructor of the PATH of eternal BECOMING.
The real Divine Union does not mean escape from Life
and from the activities of Becoming Being, as the Mystic,
whether of the West or of the East, conceives. It is that which
the true Occultist seeks, under another name, when he aspires
to become a Conscious Co-worker with Universal BEING. It
means conscious identification of Self with LIFE, which,
though eternally at rest in itself, is eternally active in its own
BECOMING.
The true, the only, real goal of the Scientific Occultist is
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
142
perfectly expressed by Krishna, the embodied Lord of all
Being, in the words : “ With this myselfI establish the whole Uni­
verse, and remainfor ever separateHe, conscious Ruler of Life
because Life itself, rests for ever in awareness of his Divine Self­
hood, and is yet eternally active in the least to the greatest of
his infinite aspects. This conception of attainment is very
different from that escape into “The Bosom of God” which is
the goal of the Western Mystic, or from that of the Nirvana of
the Eastern devotee, both of which are manifestations of
transcendental selfishness ; and the truth is clearly recognized
by Northern (Mahayana) Buddhism in its teachings concerning
the Buddhas and their nature. The Pratyeka Buddha, who,
indifferent to the sorrows of the world, escapes from them into
Nirvana, is ranked far below the Buddha of Compassion, who,
renouncing all reward for his labours, remains in the world to
help mankind. In the story of the Christ the same teaching,
though not often perceived and understood, is implicit. Christ
is born into a human form, lives through his human phase, dies
to it upon the Cross, which is the symbol of generation, and
through that death is born into true LIFE. But does He
escape thereby into eternal bliss remote from the world and
struggling humanity ? On the contrary, He “ descendsintoHell” ,
and there He “ ministers unto the spirits in prison” , rising
thereafter not into any Heaven of separation but into Lord-
ship over all things— into that perfect identification with all
things that alone can make Him JUDGE of ALL.
Little though the uninstructed may suspect it, the self-same
lesson that is taught in the words of Krishna, in the story of the
life of the Buddha, and in the story of the life of the Christ, is
taught also in those precepts from Light on the Path that I have
quoted at the beginning of this lesson. To the Neophyte, when
his eyes are opened, these few brief syllables reveal the nature
of the effort he has now to make, and has to continue to make
throughout Eternity. To dwell apart from Nature and Creature,
yet to be identified with them in his aspects ; to be free of the
thrall of ambition, desire of life, desire of sensation, yet to
manifest himselfin the Powers that bear those names, to be thus
is to be a Conscious Co-worker with Nature, and consciously
in union with DIVINE BEING.
E V O C A T I O N 143
This lesson on Evocation, and the preceding lesson on
Invocation, are of the nature of commentaries of an extended,
though elementary, kind upon those paradoxical precepts of
Light on the Path, intended to lead the Learner into the first
steps of practice of them. The practice of Invocation after the
manner taught in Lesson V draws power from higher Spheres
of Being for the raising of the Self. Held in equipoise by the Self
upon its own plane, and withheld from descendinginto theplanes
of the lower selfhood, this influx of Energy is added to the
Power-of-Soul already possessed, and is denied to those aspects
of the separate self called Ambition and kindred names, which
thus deprived of vitality are “killed out” . In the practice of
Evocation, begun as taught in this lesson, the Self sends Soul-
Power downward into the separate planes by the exercise of
the Free, responsible Will it possesses. There in association with
the Personal Self in one or other of its multifarious aspects the
Power expresses itself outwardly in forms which to the
uninitiate are indistinguishable from Ambition, and other
desires which Invocation has “killed out” . For practical pur­
poses the Powers thus evoked may be regarded as “resurrec­
tions” of the slain desires, with one profound difference, namely
that their Energies are not now their own, but are emanations of
Soul-Power born upon and belonging to a superior plane, and
directed by a Self that is free. No longer do they execute their
own will, but the Will of him who “dwells apart” .
At this stage of the Learner’s progress Evocation becomes
necessary for many reasons, the chief of which may be briefly
summarized as follows :
(1). Though it assumes very many different forms, the
Power-of-Soul that enables Self to withdraw in continued
freedom is really universal, and comes therefore from every
plane of Life, not merely from those which relatively speaking
are higher or wider in scope than that upon which the Self has
created a balance. It pours in to the use of the Self from every
Sphere of Ignorance which an aspect of Self, however insig­
nificant, explores, and transmutes into a Body of Knowledge.
Every subsidiary Knowledge-Body thus developed becomes
merged in that already possessed by the Central Self, and thus
adds to its power, and gives to its possessor a wider freedom.
i44 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
(2) . The greater the power consciously emanated into those
separate aspects of Self which are engaged in exploring Spheres
of Ignorance that belong to our lower (personal) world, the
more rapidly are those Spheres exhausted and transmuted into
Bodies of Knowledge.
(3) . O f the Sphere of Ignorance delimited by the conditions
which we call the life of the world much is dark, because the
host of subsidiary Spheres of which it is composed have been
very imperfectly explored by primitive aspects of Self, or are
populated by aspects of Consciousness not of the realm of Self
at all. If those dark places are to be transmuted into the Light of
Knowledge the Self must send its Messengers (aspects) into
them armed with the Power of Soul which it has found.
(4) . By the measure of the power which the Self emanates
into any Sphere the measure of the power it receives in return
is determined : “ Asye sow, so shallye reap"
(5) . The Powers of the World are the World. The Spiritual
Man must manifest himself through the Powers of which the
world is created if he would have the world know him. He
must make of the world a conscious aspect of himself, for an
aspect of his Being it is, a dead burden, or an active foe when
not recognized, a powerful servant when it is.
The laws that govern the practice of Evocation are the same
that govern that of Invocation, but for the Neophyte their
application is far more difficult and fraught with greater risks.
It should never be attempted until certainty of some real
mastery of Invocation has been gained— until through patient
practice balance of the Selfhas been thoroughly tested.
Evocation is a far more stringent test of balance than is
Invocation. In the practice of Invocation, when the Swing of
Being mounts towards the negative spiritual Power of Compre­
hension (see Fig. 3) there is always what amounts to a momen­
tary loss of balance, for as the lofty aspect of Comprehension
dawns the poised Thought-Self is obscured. Poise, however, is
instantly recovered when the positive spiritual Power of Com­
passion pours into the Thought-plane and is held there by the
Self, balanced by the negative thought, Understanding of Duty.
No corresponding loss of poise or obscuration of Self can occur
in Evocation without a fall from the Way of Becoming that
E V O C A T I O N 145
may well be of a disastrous nature, for in this instance the Self
if obscured becomes possessed by separate Powers, and whirled
into a conflict with the Laws of Life, whereas in Invocation the
possession, such as it is, is by Spiritual, non-separate Powers,
and can cause no conflict. The greater difficulty of Evocation
as compared with Invocation, and the greater risk of loss from
any failure inits practice, was illustrated very aptly by a Teacher
of old in the saying : “It is easier to catch, hold, andcast back aspear
that speeds towardsyou than to recall one that has spedfrom your
hand.” In the same symbolical drama the Teacher is made to
say to his disciple : “Letyour spear be linked toyour breastplate by
a cord woven ofpure silver strands ; then mayyou cast the weapon afar
and withdraw it again toyour hand; but without the cord the spear is
lost, andyou become theprey ofyourfoes” (A)
For the intelligent Learner who has with diligence worked
thus far through these lessons no interpretation of such sayings
is necessary. The Powers of Separate Being, of which Ambition,
Desire of Sensation, and Sense of Separateness may be said to
be chief hierarchs, may be safely evoked and safely used only
by a Self that is free and poised upon its own plane, but which
yet lives in its aspects— in conscious identification with them.
Dwelling thus, the Man may rightly and truthfully paraphrase
the Declaration of Krishna, and say : “ With this SelfI create the
World, and dwell apart with LIFE.”
No philosophic exposition that I, or another, no matter how
wise, can give will ever make you master of the technique of
Evocation or give you safety in its practice. It is to be learned
only by long and patient practice, not to be begun until you
are thoroughly well grounded in Invocation— not even to be
contemplated or approached except with circumspection and
through many preparatory steps. Bear in mind the story of the
Christ and think that that which you essay in Evocation is an
analogue of his “Descent into Hell” . Bear in mind also that
though He descended as Master of LIFE He met the imprisoned
spirits not as a conqueror but as a servitor. Mayatmanum atmana
pasyami” : thus the Sanscrit Occult aphorism freely translated
declares : “ I energize my illusionary aspects and thus I raise the
Self”
Because these lessons do not undertake to guide any on into
K
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
146
full accepted Discipleship, but only seek to help the Aspirant
over the first round of the long spiral ascent to the distant Gates
of Gold, the practical exercises in Evocation presently to be
taught will all be of an elementary character, effective if
approached with understanding and practised with diligence,
but, even if not so approached and practised, productive of no
disastrous consequences. They are expounded under the
following headings— all, with the exception ofthefirst, analogues
of the Instruments discussed in Lesson V.
Evocation may be practised through :
(1) Physical Training. (2) Reading— fact or fiction. (3)
The Theatre : all its branches including Oratory. (4) Study of
Humanity. (5) Teaching.
(1) Physical Training.
Some measure of attention given to the physical body is
always necessary if attempts at Evocation of Powers are not to
prove either abortive or disastrous. Doubly necessary is it that
the Western student should understand not merely the nature
of the care needed but just why it is needed, for it is a subject
that in its true character receives little or no consideration
from Western teachers of Occultism. Teachers whose outlook
is truly spiritual neglect it almost totally. Others who are
mainly preoccupied with the cure of bodily ills, or with the
cultivation of psychic powers, emphasize it unduly and in a
wrong direction, and between the two the Learner is either
misguided or left without any guidance at all. The scope and
general balance of this series of lessons prevent me from dealing
with the subject as its importance deserves, but in Lesson VI
of Part II of this volume a set of practical instructions is given
in which the Learner will find all the guidance he needs. (B)
The Physical Body is the Chief Monitor of the Earth-world.
Upon its quality and upon the manner in which it is utilized by
the Self depend, first and foremost, how much or how little in
the shape of Knowledge returns from earthly Spheres of Ignor­
ance into Deep Being, there to be transmuted into Soul-Power
to the raising of the Self. A Monitor is both a Delimitator and
a Guide and Teacher. The less he attracts to himself the more
is he Guide, Teacher, and valued Servant of the Self. The more
E V O C A T I O N 147
he attracts the more does he narrow and confine those outer
Spheres which the Self should and must explore, and the more
does he usurp the functions of the rightful Ruler of the Being.
A body that is diseased or imperfect forces the Self to centre in
it much of the Power-of-Soul that might be used with greater
profit in transmutation ofother Spheres. A body that is dull and
insensitive, though not diseased, severely limits the range of
exploration of the Self, because it fails to point out where
Knowledge lies hidden. From the fact that it is entirely possible
to turn Consciousness altogether away from mere earthly Fields
of experience it is often most unsoundly argued that the quality
of the physical body is altogether immaterial to progress
towards Discipleship. The real meaning of earthly existence is
either forgotten or never understood by those who argue so,
for the Conditions that constitute it would not be manifest at
all were it not that there remain on this plane many Spheres of
Dark Substance still unexplored. Consciousness may indeed be
turned away from those Spheres and from the Monitors that
beckon the Self towards their exploration, but any such turning
away means not that the “spirits” that dwell in them have
been freed, but only left sleeping in their prisons.
For use as an effective instrument of Evocation the physical
body has to be made :
(1). Harmonious in the interrelationships of its parts,
balanced and stable, so that it as a whole, or in any of its
aspects, shall obtrude itself into consciousness as little as
possible.
(2) . Finely sensitive, so that its efficiency as a Monitor, as a
Guide to unexplored or imperfectly explored Spheres, is
enhanced as much as possible.
To those ends and to no others is care and training of the
body directed. Let it be well understood that Spiritual
Occultism, the Path to the PATH, is in no way concerned with
the healing of bodily diseases, nor with instructing persons not
potential Disciples in the art ofpreserving and increasing health
and strength. The rules and instructions given in detail in
Lesson V I of Part II of this book are for the use of serious
Learners, andfor no others. It is possiblethatthey may alsoprove
of help to many not concerned with Occultism, but I do not
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
148
urge that such persons attempt to follow them, for to many
they may be harmful rather than helpful.
The truth should be understood, though to many, I am well
aware, it will be distasteful, that if a man is to enter the Path of
Discipleship, or even to make any serious advance beyond the
practice of the more elementary degrees of Invocation, he
must be possessed of a measure of health and other physical
attributes not commonly possessed by ordinary persons. In the
Mystery Schools ofthe Ancient world, and indeed in all genuine
Occult orders at the present day, certain bodily characteristics
were and are recognized as indicating in a candidate for
admission into membership his fitness or lack of fitness for the
work required of him. The Occult “signs” which mark the
potential Disciple are extremely numerous, but to give a
detailed list of them in lessons intended for Beginners would
serve no good purpose. There are, however, certain obstacles of
a physical nature which make anything in the way of real
Occult development difficult, impossible, or dangerous to
attempt, and these should be known. They are as follows :
(1) . Age. After the age of 54 in men and 45 in women
litde real progress towards Discipleship is possible, unless the
individual is one who has already in the present life or in a
past life done some conscious work towards the Path. Complete
Beginners— known by the fact that even when they study hard
(which is seldom) their studies are never accompanied by those
flashes of intuitive Comprehension that always come to encour­
age the genuine Aspirant, and illumine a step before it is taken
— should never go beyond Lesson IV, and usually not beyond
Lesson II. Difficult to understand though the uninstructed may
find it, it is a fact that even the more simple of the invocatory
practices, such as the use of Scripture and Poetry as expounded
in Lesson V, may lead to alarming reactions in unfit persons.
(2) . Organic disease or definite deformity of body is an
absolute bar to serious practice of Invocation, much more so to
that of Evocation.
(3) . No person afflicted by chronic diseases or defects of the
types listed below should attempt serious Occult work of a
character more advanced than that taught in Lesson III and
Lesson IV :
E V O C A T I O N 149
(a) Diseases and deformities of the spine. Even a slight
deformity of the spine is a serious obstacle.
(b) Diseases and deformities of the sex organs. In some cases
these are even more hindering than those of class (a).
(c) Defects of the heart, lungs, and circulatory system.
(d) Kidney complaints.
(e) Organic and constitutional (not merely functional)
diseases or defects of the abdominal organs, particularly of the
liver, spleen, and colon.
Against the foregoing statements it may be argued that
many persons afflicted with one or more of the diseases and
defects named have exhibited, and do exhibit, lofty qualities,
such as deep spirituality, seership, and genius of many kinds.
All this is freely admitted, but it affects in no way the truth of
what I have said. Spirituality, genius, or seership do not make
the Adept. They may be qualifications for Discipleship, but
not if they are not supported by quite different attributes. If the
saints and geniuses who were afflicted with any of the disabili­
ties above-mentioned be carefully studied it will invariably be
discovered that their high qualities were but casual and isolated
aspects of their natures, and that they lacked in a pronounced
degree the perfect poise which alone can make a man a Con­
scious Co-worker with Everbecoming Life, such as the Occultist
aspires to be. But let it not be thought that I teach that such
persons have no high value to man and to the world ; on the
contrary, their value is very great, as Monitors. Let it be under­
stood that a way and an individual may be lofty and of high
service to the world and yet be in no sense the Occult Way, or
he the Initiate.
In an earlier lesson it was pointed out that extreme
unbalance in world conditions permits, at the positive pole, a
high manifestation of good, and at the negative, terrible evil,
and the same law rules in the human Microcosm. Various
species of genius, and more commonly clairvoyance and
mediumistic qualities, are very frequently exhibited by persons
who are diseased and deformed spinally and sexually, but it is
not difficult to find other aspects very far from admirable in
the same persons. Those diseases and disharmonies are either
the outer manifestations of or the occasioners of an extreme
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
15°
unbalance in the essential Being; therefore those who suffer
from them cannotbe Occultists, forof the true Occultist balance
is the hall-mark.
In training the body, especially in early stages of progress,
the central thought should be balance. Balance gives easy
freedom of movement, and enables the Self to withdraw atten­
tion from bodily things.
Sensitization is one of the aims of training, but care must be
taken not to overdo it or it will defeat its own purpose. The
Ancient One says : “Regardyourfive senses as tax-gatherers to a King,
for they bringyou toll of the wealth ofyour kingdom, but beware lest the
spoils they collect deceiveyou and causeyou toforget that they are but
tithes.”
The senses and other bodily perceptive powers, if such
may be considered to exist, serve the Self inasmuch as they
attract attention towards Spheres from which, for its further
freeing, it may extract Knowledge. But if they are over-active
they may lure the Selfinto Spheres that are remote and narrow,
and which, because it lacks power topenetrate and explore them
fully, may entrap it and hold it prisoner. Hence the warning of
The Ancient One : profit from activity of the Senses, but let them
not lure you into outer darkness in pursuits of phantom hoards
of buried treasure.
Always, while utilizing the Monitor of the Body, maintain
upon its own plane the freed and balanced Thought-Self
wielding the Soul-Power of Responsible Will. In every form of
Evocation of Power this rule prevails, but here, because you
deal with objective Life wherein the Monitors are most power­
ful, observance of the rule is doubly necessary.
Before proceeding to study of other instruments of Evoca­
tion turn now to Lesson VI, Part II, and carefully study the
detailed instructions in the care of the body there given. It will
be well to wait until habituated in the mode ofliving advocated
before beginning serious practice of Evocation through other
channels.
(2) Reading.
Books (using the word to include all forms of literature not
definitely Scriptural) provide civilized man with his widest
E V O C A T I O N *5*
Fields of Experience, and open before the Self many unsus­
pected Spheres of Ignorance from which Knowlege, the
Nourisher of the Power-of-Soul, may be extracted. Upon their
own plane they correspond to the instrument of Scripture, and
like it must be selected and used with discrimination. Books
that are fictional are valuable to the extent that they set forth
accurately before the reader phases of Life which it ispotentially
capable of exhibiting. Books that are factual are valuable inas­
much as they set forth phases of Life which it actually has
exhibited or is exhibiting. The knowledge, capacity, and
character of the writer are matters of high importance to the
reader, for upon them the quality of the book depends.
Because Everbecoming Life is infinite and exhibits itself in
an infinitude of forms, genius may manifest itself as fully in a
prose romance or in a history as in a great poem or a great
Scripture. Sincerity is the hall-mark of true Teacher and true
poet, and no less is it the hall-mark of the fiction-writer or
historian of genius. In effect, such a writer declares unto the
reader : “ Toyou I transmit this Vision of Life emanated unto me by
LIFE itself thus consciously or unconsciously acknowledging
to the world and to himself, as true genius always does, that he
is a creator only to the extent that he has merged his Being in
the BEING of the Eternal MANIFESTOR, become one with
IT, and of its Energies made himself the transmitting medium.
It is the common writer, he who has never bathed in the Divine
Flame, who arrogates to himself the power of creation, and
who in a certain sense actually does exercise it, for he expresses
in his works not LIFE but his own separate Being or an aspect
of it. Within the Sphere of his limited Consciousness he may be
sincere, but that which he evokes in his work is only an emana­
tion from that Sphere not powerful enough to illuminate the
realm into which it is projected ; consequently his creations
lack that completeness and reality, instinctively recognized by
all as sincerity, the hall-mark of genius.
It is true that the Occultist who has actually entered the
PATH and become the initiate Disciple can profit from any
book, as he can from every Field of Experience that opens
before him. Not so the Neophyte in his first approaches towards
the practice of Evocation : he should not, until the test of
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
152
experience, patiently applied, has established in him the power
of discrimination, use as instruments any others than books of
recognized genius.
As in Invocation so in Evocation, the inner effort demanded
of the Aspirant is one of Imagination— using that word in the
wider sense defined in last lesson. But whereas in Invocation
Imagination is exhibited in a single aspect, in Evocation it is
exhibited in two, and it is, therefore, a more complex and
difficult effort than that demanded in the former practice.
Application of those two aspects of Imagination is made in the
following way : first, by making a negative or indrawing effort
to lift the Ruling Self upward into identification with that of
the writer, to see with his eyes and know with his mind the
Vision of Life as he saw and knew it in his hour of creation ; and
second, by making a positive effort to identify the human or
Acting Self with some selected character in the book, to enter
into his Being and live and move as the author depicts him
living and moving among the events and conditions that
confront and surround him.
When successfully executed, the two efforts are sustained
together and become a single effort, though in practice, and
more especially in early practice, one, usually the first, precedes
the other. Complete success in the effort makes reader and
writer one in Consciousness, not as either is in ordinary
moments, but as the writer was in his creative, or, more accur­
ately, emanative,mood. In that mood he himselfwas a true evoker
of Power, dwelling at the culminating point of the Sphere of
Thought whence spring all true works of genius— the Mount of
Transfiguration, as it has been called by the great Soul whose
life and whose will inspired the writing of these lessons— the
point of Being wherein the Self, though still the Man-Self, is
illuminated by the radiance of loftier Spheres ; yet dwelling
equally in those energized aspects of his separate selfhood that
take shape as the characters who move through his pages,
characters that are truly alive, because they dwell in his Being
and he lives in them.
The key to understanding of the true nature of Evocation is
fully revealed in the foregoing paragraph. By some Teachers it
has been called :
E V O C A T I O N 1 5 3
“ Union of Being with the Genius in his moodofcreation” . And
by others :
“ Marriage with the Creative Spirits” .
But the two sayings have only one meaning : that which I have
striven to convey.
Not without prolonged effort and many failures can Evoca­
tion of this perfect and lofty nature be compassed, but to have
in mind a vision of a goal towards which to aspire is an aid
with which we cannot dispense while we live in the limited
human Consciousness. Towards that goal you may take your
earlier steps through the media of books of genius, but not
until, with the enormous aid they give, you come within
measurable distance of it can you hope for any unaided success.
Not until you can in reading a great book rouse into powerful
action such aspects of the lower selfhood as those which take
shape in passionate love, in righteous anger, in consuming
ambition, in all those desires and human thoughts that cause a
man to outstand from his fellow men, and at the same time
remain serene, poised, and watchful in the Ruling Selfthat rests
at the Summit of the Sphere of Thought, can you with perfect
safety handle and use less effective instruments, much less
attempt Evocation in ordinary conditions, depending upon
your own power to sustain your balance. Never forget that to
be capable of true Evocation you must yourself have touched
genius consciously, and that means that you will have risen into
the degree of Magician.
While confining your more serious attempts at the practice
of Evocation to the study of books of genius, you may, aiming
not too high and accepting failure with detachment, approach
the work experimentally through other forms of reading. Scope
for such experimenting is given by common History, Biography,
and most of all by the Newspaper. These types of literature, in
most instances, present life or phases of life with a strong, often
a calculated, bias, and in consequence assail the reader with
Conditions highly stimulative of the Separate Powers. Few not
Neophytes advanced considerably in exercise of free, detached
thought realize how completely they are dominated by separa­
tive thoughts, emotions, and passions evoked by Conditions
deliberately set up by their favourite Daily Paper, and by
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
154
popularly accepted histories. Invocation patiently practised
devitalizes those lower Powers by killing what we call interestin
the Spheres they delimit— diverting it to the use of the Self on
higher planes ; but in Evocation the flow of Energy, interest,
must again be sent out into the inferior Spheres, now with
deliberate will by the freed Self, in order that added power and
wider freedom may be won through fully and consciously
exploring them.
Experimental Evocation through Newspaper or popular
national history may be practised as follows. Aided by the
conditions the writing provides, set yourself to the task of
creating, as the fiction-writer does, a little world in imagination,
entering into it and living vividly through it in your separate
aspects— your emanations. Identify yourself with the editor who
writes scathingly of public personages who are not of the
political party that employs him. Be the plaintiff or defendant
in some great lawsuit. Be.the prisoner, or the prosecuting
counsel, or the detective in a sensational criminal trial; in fact
throw yourself wholeheartedly into “ taking sides” . Such “side­
taking” is the very essence of personal activity. Yet all the while
when acting thus hold fast to your identity with the unsleeping
Self, dwelling apart with him upon the lonely Mount, patiently
gathering up with him the scattered threads of Knowledge
spun by your busy children and from them weaving with
unhurried hands a wider and more splendid robe of Royal
Freedom.
(3) The Theatre.
The term The Theatre is used to cover not merely every
form of histrionic art but staged exhibitions of all kinds,
including public speaking. As an instrument of Evocation it is
in many ways far more powerful than Reading, but much less
available to the average Learner, and much less safe. What was
said of Music in the last lesson applies even more strongly to the
Theatre. In general, the Learner cannot be the actor in a stage
play, or the principal in any staged exhibition, but must con­
tent himself with observing the performances of others. He is
consequently subjected to the influence of the personalities of
the actors as well as to that of the instrument they manipulate,
E V O C A T I O N I 5 5
and for this reason is liable to have his own lower selfhood
stimulated to an extreme degree, with corresponding danger
of having his detached Self obscured. Not therefore until
thoroughly practised and tested in Evocation through Reading
should you make serious attempts to utilize the instrument of
the Theatre.
Study of actors of genius, and other platform performers of
distinction, among whom great Statesmen and Politicians are
prominent, is highly instructive, for by persons of these classes
the art of Evocation is often very effectively exemplified,
though in most cases not consciously, or only semi-consciously.
By his absolute sincerity the great actor makes the characters
he assumes impressive. He himself actually is the character he
depicts, and does not merely dress his own personality in a
cloak of pretence as does the actor who lacks the fire of genius;
yet withal he is not possessed or obsessed, and returns serenely
when the play is over into his own lofty Thought-Self. It is to
the same power of Evocation that great Statesmen, great
Counsel, great Soldiers, indeed great Leaders of every kind,
owe their distinction. They are all in their own walks of life
conscious or unconscious workers of Magic.
(4) Study of Humanity.
As an instrument of Evocation Study of Humanity occupies
a place parallel to that of Study of Nature as an instrument of
Invocation. It is the most powerful and most readily available
of all instruments. Ultimately it must come to be, practically
speaking, your sole instrument; you merely prepare yourself
to use it by means of your exercises with others— a preparation
indeed most necessary because of the varied and complex
character of the work. Through weaker instruments the laws
which govern the Art may be learned and applied without
danger, and none but these are needed to guide your use of the
greater weapon.
The Laws of both Invocation and Evocation are declared in
the mystical words of the Teacher who speaks in the character
of The Ancient One :
“ Look earnestly into that Mirror which is named the World of
Men, and see therein countless images each the shadow ofapari ofyour
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
156
nature. Thus learn thatyourfellow men are but shadows, and thatyou
whileyou live amongthemare buta shadowalso. . . .”
“ Cover the Mirror named the World of Men with the Veil of
Knowledge and look upon your Self. Thus learn that though your
Shadows are Legionyour true SELF is but one. . . . ”
Elsewhere in the same ancient Scripture the Teacher says :
“ The Shadow moves but the LIGHT moves not. The Shadow
darkens andfades but the LIGHT is always LIGHT. Be thou the
Shadow thatdances with the Shadows, but be thou always the LIGHT,
for withoutLight no Shadow can be.”
(5) Teaching.
Sooner or later in every cycle of learning the Aspirant is
required to teach. Real Teaching is the truest form of Evocation,
for in it aspects of the Self are called to life within the Being of
another, and the Learning Selfofthe other is evoked within the
Being of the Teacher. It is required of the Teacher who would
truly teach that he be able to live within the Acting selfhood of
others, feel with their Emotional principles and think with their
Thought principles, and yet live apart, alone and isolated in his
own Thought-of-Selfuponthehighestpeak ofthe World of Mind.
In any such real sense as this the Neophyte cannot teach,
yet something approaching it he can do, and because he can he
must. In saying this let me not be misunderstood : when I say
that the Learner must teach I do not imply that he should rush
about trying to convey to others knowledge upon which he
himself has no sure grip. That is the way of the average man ;
particularly is it the way of the untrained student of Occultism.
It is the everlasting cause of the corruptions that at once begin
to darken the LIGHT at each fresh unveiling, whether that
unveiling occurs in a world-wide Sphere or in a circle of two or
three. Men who lack any gleam of real knowledge, who have
but cast an unpractised eye over the ground whereon rests the
Ladder to the PATH, who, if they have perceived the presence
of the Ladder at all, have not placed a foot upon its lowest rung,
go forth to gather followers no more ignorant, but less self-
confident, than they, and preach and teach of things no more
(and no less) real than are the phantoms of an opium-eater’s
dream. Thus do the blind lead the legions of the blind, and thus
E V O C A T I O N 157
do leaders and led flounder blindly in the mire of Separateness,
the first loudly proclaiming, and the last fondly believing, that
they have found and are treading the Path to LIFE.
When I say that to the Learner a time comes when he must
teach I imply that in the course of his advance he will inevit­
ably come to a point where the Knowledge and Power drawn
into and conserved within his Being through Invocation will
transform that Being into a Spiritual Magnet, as the inspirer of
these lessons has termed it, a magnet towards which others
dwelling within his Sphere of Self, who have freed the steel of
Soul from its scabbard of separateness, will of necessity gravi­
tate. When thisoccurs Conditions multiplyaround the Aspirant,
compelling him through their special nature to put forth some
of the Light that burns within him. In, perhaps, simpler words,
Conditions will irresistibly force him into the role of teacher,
but he must beware that they do not lure him into trying to
teach those whose nature neither calls for nor is capable of
receiving enlightenment.
To segregate a circle or group of true Learners from out of
the numbers who will blindly or half blindly gather round you
when any real Knowledge and Power emanate from you is
in these Western lands a task of extreme difficulty. To succeed
in doing it, even to the extent of two or three, is to have in your
hand an instrument of White Magic, a veritable Enchanter’s
Wand through which blessings may be scattered abroad,
because each unit of the circle becomes a true emanation of, or
aspect of, your own freed Self, and in his turn an emanator of
true Soul-Power.
It is a fact that the Beings of all persons who gather in
devotion about a teacher, especially one with claims to any
Occult standing, become instruments of Magic. But rarely
indeed is the Magic white, for devotion is centred in the Self of
the Man, not in the true SELF of LIFE.
Though you may find it impossible to create about you a
circle ofgenuine Learners, yet any body ofpersons who habitu­
ally congregate round you seeking teaching will form for you a
useful instrument of Evocation from which you may profit
much, irrespective of any outwardly manifest profit that may
accrue to your pupils. To use such an instrument rightly is
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
158
difficult, and is for him who attempts it a severe test. If you
would not fail badly give close thought to the following hints :
Hold firmly aloof from any concern whatsoever of a personal
nature with the trials and failures of those whom you try to
teach, not that you have no responsibility for them— you have
the greatest, because you have caused them by evoking some
sparks of your own Power within the Beings of the sufferers—
but because you risk obscuring your own Light by such concern,,
and give no real help.
The moment your teachings, which are Energies emanated
through you associated with aspects of your Self, enter and
touch the Consciousness of another, activity in his Being is at
once increased, and with that increase he becomes aware of an
inner conflict, a struggle, which is that of the legions of the
lower selfhood fighting to maintain their hold upon the Higher
Self which threatens to escape from their thrall. Outwardly,
and in the separate Consciousness of the sufferer, this conflict
will manifest in strange emotions, disturbed thoughts, dissatis­
faction with self, and very often with the teacher or teachings,
vague feelings of loss and loneliness, evil dreams, and general
unhappiness. Should you unwisely expend yourself in personal
sympathy with a pupil so afflicted, and try in human ways to
relieve his sufferings, your Ruling Self may be dragged down
from its high place and become possessed by the Powers you
have evoked ; for remember that those selves that make a
battleground of the Being of the other are your own evocations,
aspects of your own separate selfhood objectified in him.
From these it is your task to remain remote and detached and
gather up new Power and Knowledge from their activities.
The Beginner may think that the attitude I advocate in­
dicates coldness and indifference— a shirking of responsibility,
in fact. It is not so, nor is it possible to get rid of responsibility.
For the results of the action of any Power you evoke you are
responsible, and this is brought home to you in the object lesson
which the troubled state of your pupil furnishes. You see and
feel his burdens as yours, and the one true and certain way of
helping him to bear them is to remain unshaken by them,
serenely poised in your true Self.
Most Learners will have read stories such as Bulwer Lytton’s
E V O C A T I O N 159
Zanoni, wherein the Adept Teacher withdraws and leaves his
pupil a prey to the dark phantom he has evoked, and may
imagine that such behaviour means complete heartlessness.
Nothing could be further from the truth than such an idea.
The Teacher, though he appears to withdraw, must (by the Law
of BEING) remain linked with and burdened by the troubles
and failures of any pupil in whom he has evoked any of his own
Power, until such time as the latter has found peace and freedom
through his own efforts. The withdrawal of the Adept depicted
in tales like Zanonh written by authors of knowledge, is merely
an allegorical representation of happenings in the inner Being
ofall Aspirants. Mejnour, the Arch-Adept in Zanonh typifies the
lonely, detached Self, the Initiator. Zanom is the adept Soul
through which contact between the Initiator and the Neophyte,
typified by Glyndon, is established, and it is through that Soul
that the perfect sympathy of Divine Consciousness goes out and
shows the afflicted the Way to Peace. In every man these three
aspects exist. Much that is illuminating may be learned from
intelligent study ofZan»ni.
I do not say remain cold and indifferent to the sufferings
of a pupil in whom your Power has evoked an inner conflict.
I say let not your Ruling Self involve itself in the struggle.
But, through the Zanoni i*1 you, you can an<i you must go out
to the afflicted in Compassion, while yet in your Mejnour you
dwell on the Mountain in cold and lonely peace.
Concluding Comments.
In the various hints contained in this lesson— for hints and
suggestions they are rather than direct instructions— all has
been given relative to the practice of Evocation that may be
safely given to a Beginner. To what extent you pursue the hints
thus given must depend upon yourself; but remembering that
this is only the first round of the long spiral ascent to the
PATH you will, wisely, not pursue them too far. It is better to
lag a little than to advance too fast, only to be flung back
violently by collisionwith somehidden barrier. At everystageofthe
ascent there is risk of a slip and fall, and the risks become greater
and the results of a fall more disastrous the higher you ascend.
Take thereforethisstepofEvocation with extreme circumspection.
i6o T H E O C C U L T W A Y •
Confine yourselfin your attempts at Evocation to use of the
“ Instruments” mentioned in this lesson until some distinct
certainty of stable balance has become yours. There are
numberless other means of evoking Powers, and of these
Ceremonial Magic is chief. For invocatory exercises, used as
outlined in Lesson V, Ceremonial is not only highly efficacious
but entirely safe, but as an instrument of Evocation it is,
though enormously powerful, utterly unfit for the use of a
Beginner. Any experimentation with it, whether you operate
it for yourself or allow another to operate it on your behalf, is
fraught with many dangers : danger of being possessed by too
intensely vitalized lower Powers ; danger of being obsessed
by sub-human Powers, commonly called Elemental, which may
be called to life within the Sphere of Self by over-stimulation
of its embryonic aspects ; danger indeed that all these roused
Lower Legions may obscure the Light of the detached Self,
and hold, perhaps for a whole lifetime, Consciousness im­
prisoned in the state known to mystics as “ The Dark night of the
Soul” .
All instruments of Invocation described in Lesson V may
be used equally for evocatory purposes, but it is better and
safer that a Beginner should not use the same instrument for
both practices. The advanced Occultist may do this, for all
Conditions are his to use as media both of Invocation and of
Evocation ; but such use implies that he has risen to the status
of Natural Magician.
Warnings such as these have of necessity to be given for the
protection of Aspirants who lack any direct guidance, yet the
mere possibility of risk must not deter you from essaying the
step of Evocation. The round of the Spiral Ascent which you
are now treading cannot be completed if you omit any one of
the Seven Steps. By patient study of this lesson and by diligent
practice of the exercises it teaches you may perfect yourself in
the technique of the evocatory Art in its less developed aspects.
Armed with this Power, and illumined by the Light which
experience gives, go steadily forward, fearing no danger and
thirsting for no reward. Armoured by obedience to this Law
you can never fall or fail or stray.
E V O C A T I O N l6l
“ Seek out the way. Seek the way by retreating within.
Seek the way by advancing boldly without. Seek it not by
any one road. To each temperament there is one road that
seems most desirable. But the way is not found by devotion
alone, by religious contemplation alone, by ardent progress,
by self-sacrificing labour, by studious observation of life.
None can take the disciple more than a single step onward.
All steps are necessary to make up the ladder. The vices
of men become steps in the ladder, one by one as they are
surmounted. The virtues of men are steps indeed necessary
— not by any means to be dispensed with, but though they
create a fair atmosphere and a happy future they are useless
if they stand alone. The whole nature of man must be used
wisely by one who desires to enter the way. Each man is to
himself absolutely the way, the truth, and the life. But he is
only so when he grasps his whole individuality firmly and
by the force of his awakened spiritual will recognizes this
individuality not as himself but as that thing which he has
with pain created for his own use, and by means of which he
purposes as his growth slowly develops his intelligence to
reach the life beyond individuality. When he knows that for
this his wonderful, complex, separated life exists, then indeed,
and then only, is he upon the way. Seek it by plunging into
the mysterious and glorious depths ofyour own inmost being.
Seek it by testing all experience, by utilizing the senses in
order to understand the growth and meaning of individual­
ity, and the beauty and obscurity of those other divine
fragments which are struggling side by side with you, and
form the race to which you belong. Seek it by the study of
the laws of being, the laws of nature, the laws of the super­
nature ; and seek it by making the profound obeisance of
the soul to the dim spark that burns within. Steadily as you
watch and worship its light will grow stronger. Then you
may know that you have found the beginning of the way.
And when you have found the end its light will suddenly
become the infinite light.”
{Light on the Path.)
L
Lesson VII
NATURAL MAGIC
HE who walks the PATH OF LIGHT is marked by :
(1) . COMPASSION : for he understands the Meeds of the
Weary Animal, the Sorrows of the Child, and the Mind of the
Stranger.
(2) . HARMONY OF SOUL : for his Eye perceives Nature,
his Heart comprehends Nature, and his Courage enables him
to dwell with Nature.
(3) . SKILL IN ACTION : for he Loves his work, he Knows
his work, andhe Works with Willfor no reward.
(4) . UNIVERSAL VISION : for he loves all things, he is
just towards all beings, andhe serves the Law with gladness.
(The Sayings of the Ancient One.)
I n the days of old when the Mystery Schools of the Mediter­
ranean world flourished openly, and Magic was as much an
accepted reality as telegraphy is today, the candidate for ad­
mission into their teaching degrees, having passed through six
stages ofNeophyteship in the initiatory lodges of Egypt, Greece,
Chaldea, or other centre, was required to go to Ireland, and
there undergo a further initiation at the hands of the Druids
in order to become fully qualified as a Magician.
The Druids lived and worked with Nature as her conscious
agents and servants. Their Temples and Holy Places were no
edifices raised by human hands, and consecrated to sacred uses
by mere power of human mind, but were Centres taken direct
from the hand of the Universal Mother, altered only, if altered
at all, by the addition of rude but intensely significant symbols
of Nature’s own designing. The true Druids, of whom and of
whose lore less than nothing is known in the Outer World, or
guessed by those who in these modern times pretend to know-
N A T U R A L M A G I C 163
ledge of the Ancient Mysteries, were the High Priests of the
Most High Gods— those Old Ones whose forms, never visible
to human eyes, were never degraded into human semblance
in wood or metal or stone by human imagination and human
hands, but were ever known only in their robed outlines, in the
sun-blaze and the fire, in the sea and the lake and the river, in
the wind and the rain, and in plain and forest and mountain.
Custodians of and Initiators into the secrets of Natural Magic
were those High Priests, and their Art was an art more difficult
to master because more lofty than the Art-magic of temple and
secret shrine. No Hierophant of that lost world was ever re­
garded as fully adept in his craft until initiated into the service
of the Mother by the Wise Men of the Sacred Isle. (A)
What was a law unto the Men of Wisdom in those ancient
days, before the Age of Iron threw its black shadow over the
Western World, is still a law unto the Aspirant who would
achieve the high dignity of companionship with those who are
Conscious servants of the All Mother. Through six stages or
degrees, analogous in essential nature to the six lessons of this
series already given, no matter how different in detail, the
Neophyte or Disciple treads every round of the Spiral Path to
Knowledge, and is then initiated, or rather initiates himself by
virtue of what he has become through previous effort, into the
seventh, which is the practice ofNatural Magic. No round, from
the first which he essays as a semi-conscious Learner up to the
last which he will tread as a human being, can ever be fully
completed and left behind unless and until he has roused
within himself the power, in some measure however slight,
of acting as conscious servant of, and agent of Universal Nature.
But when once the least spark of that power has become con­
sciously his he will have joined the Company of Workers of
Magic— those who are said to follow the STAR— and never
again, let him stray and stumble as he may upon the higher
rounds of the Ascent, can he be as are the men of the World
of the Blind, upon whose open but sightless eyes the beams of
the STAR have never shone.
A lesson— using the word in its ordinary sense— on Natural
Magic cannot be given, not even a lesson ofa nature as qualified
as that of Lesson VI. To attempt it would be not merely useless
164 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
but presumptuous. The Art of Magic develops through the
processes of natural growth, exactly as do strength and stature
of body, and when it is developed the teacher, like the physical
trainer, can do no more than show, by hint, suggestion, and
example, how best it may be applied and conserved. For this
reason the various comments which I shall permit myself to
make in the present lesson will be deliberately incomplete, dis­
cursive, and disjointed, even to the extent of being, as some
students not real Learners will doubtless think, devoid of any
real meaning. Yet for those who have followed the preceding
lessons intelligently, and know therefore how to look for it,
meaning will disclose itself, and will continue to disclose itself
in greater and greater abundance each time the Aspirant
moves through the seven steps of the round.
At the head of this lesson there is quoted a passage from
The Sayings of the Ancient One, setting forth the four principal
attributes that mark, as the Teacher declares, the Man who
walks the PATH OF LIGHT. In this passage the very essence
of the old Druidic Law is expressed. Compassion, Harmony
of Soul, Skill in Action, and Universal Vision were called the
Four Magic Weapons of the Druid ; therefore I cannot do
better than make them the text of the comments which will
constitute the lesson. The explanatory clauses attaching to each
“ Weapon” , known as the Haft, the Blade, and the Point, are
a particularly valuable study, and in considering them it may
be possible to rouse in the Consciousness of the Learner some
real understanding of the nature of true Magic.
(1). COMPASSION.
(a) The Weary Animal.
Once upon a time, both in the Macrocosmic and the
Microcosmic sense, the Being that now manifests as Man
exhibited itself in a phase of Becoming wherein the Principle
of SUBSTANCE, the objective analogue of which is earth, did
hold and condition it far more stringently than it does in the
present phase. Then its head (the symbol of Consciousness) and
its body (the symbol of Soul, or the executive agent) were
N A T U R A L M A G I C 165
equidistant from earth ; and its limbs (symbols of Energy) were
not free of earth, as, comparatively speaking, those of Man are,
but were all four closely conditioned by it, and in range of
action narrowly restricted. Out of that Sphere of Ignorance, the
Animal Sphere, the Being in due time won up into the larger
freedom of the Human Sphere ; but the essential animal
nature, the Body of Knowledge developed by experience in the
animal Consciousness, was not abandoned or destroyed, but
was absorbed into, or incorporated within, the Human Sphere
of Ignorance, and therein it continues existence as a Monitor
and Delimitator.
Now, every intelligent man is aware that during his growth
from birth to adult manhood he has passed through many
different phases, and that the earlier ofthese phases were purely
animal. Consequently he, the Man that is, has evolved from,
or, as some would say, has descended from, the animal. Further­
more he is aware that that essential Animal still exists within
him, for as he explores his Human Sphere he meets its con­
ditioning influence everywhere— he, according to the measure
of his intelligence, constantly evokes it to his aid or to his hin­
drance in forms passive or active, gentle or terrible. Being
aware of all this, he cannot fail to recognize as well that the
Animal within, though it influences him, is not independent
of him, for it depends entirely for its life and activity upon the
vitality he emanates into it ; therefore he is actually its creator
and fount oflife, and it is his creation and emanation. (B)
As in the Inner so in the Outer— as it is in the Microcosm
so it. is in the Macrocosm : the Being which is a Man in the
present world-cycle was an Animal in a past world-cycle. Men
have evolved from animal progenitors, not in the manner con­
ceived by the Darwinian evolutionist but from a phase of
Planetary Becoming that preceded the phase which man calls
the World. And the Animal, the progenitor of Man, has come
forward with its descendant, reappearing not as Parent Being
and Ruling Lord, as it was of old, but as the child, the potential
servant, the emanation of Man. Man therefore is doubly
linked with the Animal : he is its child and should consider
its needs as the young man considers those of the aged parent;
he is its parent and should rule and guide it as the wise father
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
166
rules and guides the unthinking child. This knowledge must be
made a living part of the Soul of Man before he becomes fit
to grasp the Haft of the Magic Weapon of Compassion. (C)
The secret of Magic is bound up in a living understanding
of Macrocosmic and Microcosmic correspondences, of which
those outlined in the preceding paragraphs are an example—
an example which if closely studied may prove a clue leading
to the discovery of many others. The intelligent learner should
easily realize from what has been said that Invocation and
Evocation consciously used in a single effort is the root of the
Wand of Natural Magic, for it implies the willed use of the
Law of Evolution itself.
Why is the Animal weary and what are its needs ? It is
weary because of its long slavery to earth. Above all, and in­
clusive of all needs it needs extended towards it the hand of
Man, its parent and its child, to help it in its struggle to rise
into a larger life and a wider freedom. And yet how, it may well
be asked, can man give the asked-for aid ? Has not the Animal
Being its own Sphere of Ignorance, and has it not to exhaust it
and free itself from it by its own unaided efforts ? The answer
is that the Animal, like every other of the infinite aspects of
EVERBECOMING, must find freedom as the fruit of com­
pleted experience, and in no other way ; but nevertheless it
has help, for it is in essence BEING, an aspect only, phenomen­
ally, but a link, as is every aspect, in the indissoluble chain of
the EVERBECOMING of that ONE BEING. By diligently
pursuing the experiences which its Sphere ofIgnorance affords it,
every Being wins for itself a continuous expansion of Con­
sciousness, and thereby helps towards freedom the united host
of BEING. The Beings of the Lower Kingdoms, which are
conscious but not aware that they are so, are helped by their
own experiences and by those of Beings of other kingdoms,
but know nothing of growing, or of helping or being helped.
Man who is aware only of a Consciousness of separate existence
struggles half blindly to help himself: he gives no conscious
help to Beings of the Lower Kingdoms, and is unaware of
receiving any from higher Spheres, yet he does receive the
N A T U R A L M A G I C 167
latter, and without it would perish. But Man become con­
scious of true Being extends his awareness to those both behind
him and beyond him, and knows that in that expansion of
Selfhe helps both himselfand all other aspects of LIFE.
Let us now consider a concrete example of the manner in
which man may help and uplift the Being of the Weary Animal.
Hold firmly in mind while studying the conceptions I set forth
that my aim is not to lay down any law, but to point a way that
may if followed lead you to know the LAW.
Imagine that you are passing, on a Summer afternoon,
along a peaceful country lane. Through the agency of your
“ Tax-gatherers” , the senses, you become aware of the elevat­
ing influence of the hierarchies of the Guardian Lords, mani­
festing in the varied colours of tree and grass and flower
and sky and cloud ; manifesting in the song of bird, the
distant low of ox and bleat oflamb, the rustle of leaf, and the
soft music of the breeze; manifesting in the rhythmic
movement of wind-stirred branch, drifting cloud, and
stately procession of light and shadow ; manifesting, above
all, in the Idea of Beauty that takes possession of your
Consciousness. Suddenly from the open gate of a peasants’
homestead a large dog leaps out and confronts you. Bared
fangs, bristling neck, and deep growl warn you that you are
in imminent bodily peril. What course should you pursue ?
One of three obvious expedients would certainly be the
choice of the ordinary man so situated. He might go forward
boldly and by a show of courage overawe the animal. He
might advance cautiously, and with friendly words and
gestures strive to placate it, and perhaps succeed. Or he
might consider that a discreet withdrawal was the wisest
course, and retire with all the dignity possible in the cir­
cumstances.
Now, for you, if you adopt either of those expedients, the
harmony of nature that has hitherto prevailed will at once
be destroyed, and the Idea, Beauty, will become obscured.
All of your happy vision that will remain with you will be
regretful memory of a blissful dream. But should it happen
that you are master of Natural Magic, quite a different
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
168
result will become possible if you will it. The Art of Invoca­
tion is yours to use, and you may, from any aspect which
life presents to you, assemble the Guardian Lords of Sound,
Colour, Number, and Idea and command their power to
lift you above the illusion of danger which springs only from
the sense of separateness. You will look upon the animal
and see no menace in its appearance. From the lights and
shades of its glossy coat, from the fire of its eyes and from
the pure whiteness of its teeth, you can assemble a hierarchy
of power sufficient in itself to lift your Consciousness above
the separate planes. But when to reinforce it you summon
the Lords of Sound that dwell in the note that issues from
the animal’s throat, and those of Number and Idea manifest
in its lithe movements and in the beauty of its form, you will
find yourself raised into Spheres of Consciousness where
sense of danger cannot intrude and live. In the moment that
you ascend out of the Sphere of Separation you will, as a
potential enemy, vanish out of the consciousness of the dog,
and he will accept your presence and movements with as
little antagonism as he accepts the features of Nature, for of
them you have become one.
Possibly, even probably, it may be thought by those to whom
conceptions of the foregoing nature are altogether unfamiliar
that my idea as to what Invocation may accomplish is at best
but a theory unsupported by concrete evidence of any kind.
For the benefit of those who think thus I will point out certain
facts, some of them very well attested, though in so doing I go
slightly outside the bounds I have set myself in this lesson :
(1) . Numerous unbiased and intelligent persons, in all
ages, have borne witness to the fact that certain men, called
variously yogis, saints, mystics, holy men, and the like, have
the power of rendering harmless animals as dangeious, even,
as a hungry lion.
(2) . O f much more general knowledge is the fact that
persons in states of trance— somnambulistic, hypnotic, or
mediumistic— often approach and evenhandle ferocious animals
with impunity.
(3) . When a youth, I, who give these lessons, was very
N A T U R A L M A G I C 169
subject to trances of a somnambulistic character, and often
during their continuance caught and rode a wild, unbroken
stallion which even the most daring of professional horsemen
feared to approach, much less attempt to ride.
In all such instances as the foregoing the power exhibited
arises from a single cause, namely from detachment of the
ruling principle of Consciousness, or Self, from the vehicles
through which it manifests normally— from the physical body
and immediately subjective nature. These vehicles left thus,
practically speaking, untenanted, void of consciousness, are
perceived by the animal— if it perceives them at all, of which
in some cases there is a doubt— merely as an integral part of its
conditions, no more separate from it or inimical to it than a
tree or a hill or a wreath of cloud. Facts such as these conceal
an immense and seldom suspected significance, which if sought
out and followed up would lead man to a newer and truer view
of life than that which he now entertains.
The condition induced in himself by the Adept in Natural
Magic through the processes of Invocation corresponds exactly
to that of the ecstasized yogi or mystic, and to that of the
hypnotized subject or the somnambulist, with the single but
highly important exception that it appertains to superior planes
of Consciousness, and is induced with conscious knowledge by
the application of the power of Conditions, over which the
Magician exercises control. In your hypothetical encounter
with the dog, Invocation carried out in the manner briefly
outlined lifts the Selffrom out of the purely human and separate
planes into Spiritual Spheres where Being unites with Universal
BEING, and leaves the animal confronted by an appearance
no more hostile or exciting than the shadow of a passing cloud.
Had it been that you were at the moment of the encounter
fully immersed in your invocatory exercises, you would have
passed the animal, seeing it no doubt with your physical eyes,
but only as a feature of Nature as innocent as a tree, and
without exciting in it the least symptom of antagonism.
INVOCATION alone, though it secures you immunity
from attack, will not enable you to minister fully and consciously
to the needs of the Weary Animal, and will therefore not give
you complete grasp of the Haft of the Weapon of Compassion.
170 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
Evocation has also to be used. You are aware that the Animal
is both your parent and your child. You know that you are
linked with him eternally. He has served you by enabling you
to take birth in your Man-Sphere, and you must now repay that
debt by helping him to rise. That you cannot do by retreating
from him into realms where he cannot follow, nor by any other
means whatsoever that include standing aloof from him. In
one way only can you give him the help he craves, and that is
by going out to him, by entering into his Being and vivifying
and quickening his Consciousness by uniting yours with it.
This you can do if you are a master of Evocation. Still dwelling
remote at the summit of your Sphere of Self, to which Invoca­
tion has raised you, you can emanate an aspect of your Soul-
Power in a form corresponding, more or less, to the Lower-
emotional Power called “Fellow-feeling” (see Fig. 2, Lesson
IV ). In that power you may consciously identify yourself with
the Animal Being, and look out through his dim eyes with the
eyes of your awakened Self, and thus come to see and know all
his actions and attitudes as supremely right, as pursuance of
needed experience in the Sphere of Ignorance confronting him.
O f that Sphere the chief Monitor and Delimitator is your own
separate Being ; but it you devitalize by the power of Invoca­
tion, and by the power of Evocation resurrect it as a Body of
Knowledge within the Animal Consciousness, with the in­
stantaneous result that to him you cease to be a potential
enemy and become a fully comprehended friend. By this con­
scious identification of yourself with his Consciousness you
with the Power of your Free Will grant him perfect freedom to
attack you, but with the same act leave him nothing to attack.
You will find that these imperfectly outlined conceptions,
if studied deeply and surveyed from every angle of approach
you are capable of compassing, will bring you many useful
items of new knowledge, and perhaps even flashes of true
illumination. Among other things the study may lead you to
understand how man, in the far remote past before the Separate
Self became dominant in his Being, succeeded in domesticating
so perfectly so many different species of animal; and it may also
show you how further domestication will, and must, be carried
out in the distant future, before the day when the lion will lie
N A T U R A L M A G I C 171
down with the lamb dawns upon the world. And again you
may find enlightenment concerning the true significance of the
saying, “Resist not evil” , and learn how to obey the command.
Without the power of Natural Magic you cannot obey it, and
blind attempts to do so lead always into grievous error.
(b) The Sorrows ofthe Child.
Like the Animal, the Child is equally the parent and the
offspring of the Man, and like it also has a subjective existence
in the Microcosm and an objective existence in the Macrocosm.
It is nearer akin to the Man than is the Animal, and for that
reason it encompasses and conditions him even more straitly.
As the Animal is “weary” so is the Child “sorrowful” . What is
weariness in the Animal because of its slavery to earth manifests
as sorrowin the Child because the Self within it has stirred into
wakefulness and become aware of its captivity. With cries for
release from its prison it unceasingly besets the Man, and how to
satisfy its demands is for him an ever-present and deeply per­
plexing problem.
The Key to the solution of the problem of the Child has
already been placed in your hands in what has been said con­
cerning the Animal. Constantly invoke to your own aid the
power and wisdom of that Parent Being that stands above and
beyond you, in relationship to you similar to that which you
bear towards the Child, and living in that power and light
evoke in its Being, through the Power-of-Soul which is yours, an
aspect of your own Thought-Self. Or, to make the nature of the
act more clear, shut out the Macrocosmic world and wake the
Child within your own Microcosmic nature ; and let the Light
evoked in you by your own Parent teach you how to guide it.
Because the Child is more closely related to the Man than
is the Animal, it is more difficult to evoke within its Being any
aspect of the Man-Self than it is to evoke it within that of the
latter. Why this should be so may perhaps be not easily
understood ; but let it be considered that the Animal Con­
sciousness is still part of the Universal Consciousness wherein
there is no Sense of Separateness, whereas the Separate Self is
the ruling principle in the Child, and understanding may begin
to dawn. The Animal still lives in EDEN, and is ready to
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
172
respond to the voice of any Being that lives consciously or
unconsciously with the Divine, but the Child, in whom Self
has just wakened has fallen from EDEN, and sees the Heavenly
Power not as a guiding light but as a flaming sword.
To have power, therefore, to relieve the Sorrows of the
Child implies a mastery of Magic greater than that called for
when meeting the needs of the Weary Animal. It is only the
real Teacher who has entered fully upon the Seventh Step who
can say with POWER : “Suffer the little Children to come unto me,
andforbid themnot,for ofsuch is the Kingdom ofHeaven
(c) The Mind of the Stranger.
Who and what is the Stranger ? Every man who thinks and
feels that he is separate from you is to you the Stranger, and to
every man who, you think and feel, is separate from you, you
are the Stranger, and to your own True Selfalso.
The Stranger is always with you, nearest to you, and most
intimate of all Beings, alive and active within you in the
Microcosm, and alive and active all about you in the Macro­
cosm. He is your own living parent and your own latest-born
child. To entertain him with true hospitality, to serve him with
due respect, and to direct him upon his way with right wisdom
demands exercise of a power that only the Magician who stands
at the final Step of his round of progress fully possesses ; for
the Stranger never comes to you alone, but brings with him,
interlinked with him, his progenitors, and yours also, the Child
and the Animal. Nevertheless the same Magic Weapon that
makes gentle the fierce Animal, and makes obedient the
rebellious Child, wielded now with greater skill, can make the
Stranger your valued friend and guest, and you, the Disciple,
his wise and just host.
The Magic Weapon is COMPASSION. Turn back and
consider what was said in Lesson IV concerning Compassion,
where the Weapon was exhibited in its unassembled state, and
compare it with what it is here shown to be, when Haft and
Blade and Point are conjoined into a perfect whole, and you
will, if you are a true Learner, discover unto yourself an under­
standing that the words of another, no matter what his wisdom,
can never convey to your mind.
N A T U R A L M A G I C 173
(2). HARMONY OF SOUL.
(a) The Eye that Sees Nature.
Without Harmony— a true relative balance between and
accord among all the parts that compose it— no instrument
can serve the purpose for which it is intended, no matter what
the skill ofthe user may be. O f the Selfthe executive instrument
is the Soul, chief of all instruments, embracing within itself all
lesser instruments. There is therefore a profound significance
in the fact that the Wise Men of the Lost World should have
made Soul-harmony dependent upon certain associations of
Self with Nature in the manner stated in the Sayings of the
Ancient One.
Does not, it may well be asked, the eye of every man per­
ceive Nature? The Teacher of Knowledge declares that it
does not. Only a rare few ever perceive the true face of living
Nature : ofit most men see but dead aspects. As the child looks
upon the face of a loving mother, seeing it not with appraise­
ment of turn of feature, or of texture of hair, or of tint of cheek
or eye, but from these drawing elements together into a syn­
thesis always lovely and perfect, in like maimer did the ancient
Druid, and in like manner does the modern Adept in Natural
Magic, regard the face of his Mother Nature. In this power lies
the secret of True Magic. If he possesses not the Secret, what­
ever knowledge and power of other kinds he possesses will
leave the Disciple short of the highest step in his round of
progress. Not until he is able to see the face of Nature as the
child sees the face of its mother, and equally as the mother sees
the face of her child, can the Aspirant take sure hold upon the
Haft of the Magic Weapon called Harmony of Soul.
Let it not be imagined that what I say is said in a merely
mystical or allegorical way. I intend that my words be accepted
in their literal meaning. I assert that it was the teaching of the
ancient Masters, and that it is the teaching of all true Adepts,
and my own profound belief, that the face of Nature is the
actual objective manifestation of a living Being, and that the
eye of the Disciple must be trained to perceive and interpret her
manifold moods and aspects as readily as he does those that
appear and disappear in the face of a loved friend.
The exposition I have given concerning the nature of the
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
174
Animal, and ofits relationship, Macrocosmic and Microcosmic,
with Man, can readily be extended to explain the Being of
Nature also. Nature— the Being, not its objective aspects— is
Man’s first parent, and equally his first-born child. In the dim
remote dawn of Time the entity that Man calls his World was
a single homogeneous Being, living but unconscious, exactly
analogous in nature to the primary cell out of which the body
of every man evolves. Out of that primordial Being the entity
now manifesting as Man evolved, exactly as in later ages it
evolved from the Animal, and again from the Child, and as it
will in future ages evolve out of the Man-phase. But no more
than Man has left behind the Animal and the Child has he
left behind his Mother-World : macrocosmically and micro-
cosmically he has brought it forward with him, interlinked with
him for all Eternity.
When this knowledge becomes an integral part of the Being
of Man it endows him with that degree of Soul-Power that
made possible the marvels accredited to the ancient Druids :
to bid inanimate things to move as though alive ; to command
the elements into terrible action or peaceful sleep ; to change
base metal into pure gold ; to be, in fact, possessed of the
Philosopher’s Stone ; all this and more is the prerogative of the
man who has mastery of Harmony of Soul.
To the Learner newly entered upon his first round of con­
scious progress ideas like the foregoing cannot seem other than
baseless superstitions. Yet, unless the Law of LIFE is other than
ages of occult research have demonstrated, such powers must
of necessity have existence. There is no man who does not un­
consciously work Magic. The less Self-conscious he is the more
expertly does he work, for it is the Sense of Separateness that
kills Power. The lover who sees beauty in the face and form of
his loved one, and hears sublime music in her voice and laugh
where others sense naught of distinction, performs an act of
Natural Magic, for he has commanded in her Being, little though
he knows it, the hierarchies ofthe Guardian Lords, and wrought
with them a synthesis which to him is Beauty. And if he wins his
mistress and makes her truly his, he does it by evoking within
her an aspect of his own Soul-Power. Thus is Magic worked.
Except that he works with Free Will, and with fully awak-
N A T U R A L M A G I C 175
ened Consciousness upon his own lofty plane, the Arch-adept
does with Nature, who to him is Child and Lover and Mother,
nothing more than does the lover with the Being of his beloved.
The Adept-eye sees, selects, and assembles together from the
Face of Nature the Guardian hierarchies, and marshals them
into legions perfectly harmonized ; and upon their united power
he ascends into the Heaven-world, even unto the great White
Throne of LOVE, the King. Thence he evokes the Power-of-
the-Soul in the Being of the All-Mother and All-Lover, and
she turns in shining beauty to embrace him, and yields her
secret treasures to his will.
(b) The Heart that Comprehends Nature.
To have possession of the Eye that sees Nature leads the
Aspirant towards possession of the Heart that comprehends
Nature. She is the long-forgotten, the outcast, the neglected
daughter of man, and recognizing her as such he must go forth
to her in his heart-life, and embrace her, and wake within
her the Soul-Power he has found, as he wakes it also in the
Animal, the Stranger, and the Child. Thus only can he raise
her, as raise her he must, if he is ever to shake off the shackles
which the Age of Iron has fastened upon his limbs, and recover
to himself the forgotten glories of the ancient Age of Gold.
It is a dream or a cherished fable of the men of every one of
earth’s myriad races that their forefathers walked with the gods
over the face of the young earth, and were themselves as gods.
It is an occult truth that man cannot dream that which is
impossible or utterly untrue. The Golden Age is no fable : it
existed, and it still exists all about us, though unseen by the
eyes of fallen Man. It is Man who dreams when he imagines
that the world he perceives is a reality, and not until it dawns
upon his Consciousness that he lives in a nightmare does he
approach any realization of the true world. But his full awaken­
ing will come only when he embraces Nature with a compre­
hending heart, and wakes within her Being the Soul-Power
that has flowered silently in his own Being during his long dream
in the darkness.
Little can be said, with any hope of being comprehended or
comprehensible, in the way of direct comment upon the high
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
176
magical effort that wakes the Soul of the Adept within the
unconscious Being of Nature. By long pondering over what has
been said concerning evocation of Soul-Power in the Animal,
some scattered grains of understanding may be gleaned.
Roused by such musings, isolated gleams of Light may illumine
your Consciousness, revealing glimpses of things glorious,
yet often of things terrible. A flash may reach you and wake
the thought that if Nature is in truth a living though un­
conscious Being, and if Man is charged with the duty of raising
her by sharing with her the Soul he has won, then his crimes
against her— his long neglect of her, his prostitution of her
beauty, the hideous scars with which in his selfish exploitation
of her he has marked her countenance— must surely bring upon
him some dire retribution, unless, and very speedily, he takes
steps to redress those wrongs. Whether such a thought is or is
not any real reflection of the truth I shall not say here, but I
will say this, that mankind must turn back to, or be driven back
to, a life closer to the heart of Nature than that which he now
lives before any true civilization can rise and flower on this
earth.
(c) The Courage to Live with Nature.
When with the Eye the Magician compels to his will the
Guardian Hierarchies that dwell in the Face of Nature, and
when with his Power-of-Soul he evokes his own Being within
her Being, he will have fitted the Haft to the Blade of the
Weapon of Harmony of Soul, and will have power to use the
Point when needed.
Little though they may recognize the fact, or admit it even
when they do recognize it, men in general live in perpetual fear
of Nature. The whole trend of what we call civilization shows
that fear ; and the fear grows, for the flight from Nature grows
ever swifter, revealing to the few who have eyes that can see
and minds that can comprehend the occult truth that our race
in general, far from moving spiritwards, has not yet reached
in its cyclic course the point of extremest separation from the
Mother Being. It has been said that Fear is the Great Enemy.
Will fear of Nature ultimately destroy mankind? To that
question neither I nor any other man, however wise, can
N A T U R A L M A G I C 177
answer with certainty either yes or no. From analogies fur­
nished by past human cycles it is possible to say merely that
it is probable, indeed certain, that many sub-sections of the
human race will not round the aphelion of their Race-cycle,
but will pass beyond and be lost in the Outer Darkness. Many
a race and many a civilization has vanished thus and left no
trace ; and yet Man survives.
To use the Point of the Weapon of Harmony of Soul— to
possess the Courage that enables the Man to live with Nature—
implies identification of Being with the Father-Being as well as
with the Mother-Being of this Planet. The power of Invocation
leads to union with the Father, and the power of Evocation
leads to union with the Mother. True UNION means identity
with that which is Below as well as with that which is Above ;
with that which is Outer as well as with that which is Inner.
All united with ALL is the DESTROYER of the Destroyer,
whose name is Fear.
(3). SKILL IN ACTION.
It has been said that to comprehend anything with com­
pleteness makes comprehension of that thing superfluous. To
possess Skill in Action places the Disciple beyond necessity of
acting. To reinforce understanding of this truth the Haft, the
Blade, and the Point of the Weapon of Skill in Action are
described as they are, for each expresses that truth in a different
way. Love of a task, knowledge of a task, and performance of
a task without thought of reward are not, as the uninstructed
Learner may very reasonably imagine, conditions that when com­
plied with lead to Skill in Action. Each is a condition, but it is
the sole condition requisite to the manifestation of each of its
fellows. It is therefore each of them ; each is the other ; and
each and all are Skill in Action. No man may love that which
he does not know, and no man may know that which he does
not love. To love anything he must with his whole Being
embrace the whole Being of that thing, merging the two into
one. To know anything he must with his whole Being enter
into the Being of that thing, and become it as it becomes
him.
Knowing and Loving are but male and female, positive and
M
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
178
negative, aspects of a single condition, and the executive
aspect of that condition is Action without Results.* (D)
Possession of the Weapon of Skill in action is completely
attained only when all conditions that compel action have been
obliterated, and when consequently all that is done is done with
an absolutely unfettered will. Skill in Action is but another
name for the Power-of-Soul of the Master, which he wields
within the Field of Experience men call the World— a Sphere
which he himself has completely explored, transmuted into
Knowledge, and transcended. Within the more limited Sphere
of the human, personal life, the Disciple, when he has similarly
transcended it, has power to manifest Skill in Action ; but
not until he has also transcended the Sphere of Discipleship
does he become the initiate DRUID, the Man of Power, ready
now to enter fully into the high office of Priest-King of the
realm he has conquered, and to take into his grasp the Fourth
Weapon— the Weapon that devours the other three, the
Golden Sceptre of Universal Vision.
(4). UNIVERSAL VISION.
O f Universal Vision, called also Enlightenment, Realiza­
tion, and in the East Samadhi, much may be said, but of that
much nothing may be truly comprehended except by those
who have passed beyond the need of instruction. O f it as a
condition I will in direct words say nothing, but will instead
give expression to a few incompletely formed ideas— ideas which
may or may not have an indirect bearing upon it, but which,
for you, the Learner, who are now nearing that point in your
Path of Progress at which, and beyond which, real learning
begins, may have a certain significance.
O f Spiritual Realization the average man, and even the
average Aspirant who has not yet entered the last stage of his
first round of conscious progress, knows a great deal less than
nothing. He lives in a state of illusion which at times is soothing,
but at other times is terrifying in its oppression, and imagines in
his blindness and bewilderment that should fight come to him
* See Comments, Lesson VII, Part II.
N A T U R A L M A G I C 179
it must come in the form of a phenomenal expansion of the
intellectual knowledge, and human power he already has. He
does not realize that when postulating such aggrandizement for
his human Selfhood he is wallowing in the pit ofpride, a condi­
tion anathematized by all true Teachers, and neglecting the
way ofhumility, a way that all true Teachers extol. Yet, because
he offends in ignorance, his offences, though they make labori­
ous his progress, cannot hold him altogether away from the
Light. Though he knows not towards what he aspires, his
aspiration if real and strong will sweep him forward, until at
last a moment dawns when the storm-clouds that enshroud
and bewilder him break into shreds, and he beholds the Light
of the STAR.
What vision does the pure Light of the STAR bring to the
weary Pilgrim? Will it be sudden awareness of immensely
expanded knowledge, and an influx of superhuman power ?
No ! It will be an overwhelming conviction of absolute ignorance.
Like nightmare phantoms that vanish when the eye of the
dreamer opens at the touch of the first ray of the rising sun,
those great possessions hitherto cherished by the Pilgrim, and
fondly named knowledge and power, will melt from his grasp
leaving him stripped and defenceless.
This conviction of nakedness and ignorance that falls upon
the Neophyte on the Threshold has been described by others
as void, blackness, silence, and to them it may so interpret
itself; but I conceive it as neither, but as a condition which is
at once pure white light and ultimate spacial blackness. Should
the Pilgrim stand unmoved, and not flee, as so many do, in
horror at that first revealing, from the White-Blackness two
shapes will emerge and extend their hands in greeting to the
daring intruder. The first will have the shape of a woman, and
will bear the name HUM ILITY written across her breast.
The second will have the form of a man, and will bear the name
KNOWLEDGE written upon his forehead. HUM ILITY will
take the pilgrim’slefthand in bothher hands, and KNOWLEDGE
will take his right hand in both ofhis, and to him, the Initiate, they
will by the act make manifest their BEING. Uplifted upon the
shield of Blackness the freed Self names itself HUM ILITY,
and uplifting the sword of White-Light it names itself KNOW-
i8o T H E O C C U L T W A Y
LEDGE. With the eyes of HUM ILITY the Initiate sees the
nothingness of his realm, a dimensionless point in the Circle of
Eternity. With the eyes of KNOWLEDGE he recognizes how
infinite is the dominion of which he has become possessed ; for
a pin-point of true knowledge set side by side with the phantom
lights of the Day of Illusion shines brighter than a lightning-
flash at midnight; it is a Sun of brilliance that passeth all
understanding of man.
It is taught that at the raising of the veil that separates the
World of Illusion from the World of Knowledge the Disciple
finds, waiting behind it, his Adept Teacher, and for the first
time knows him in his real nature. It is a true teaching, but yet
only relatively true, for the Adept whom the Aspirant dis­
covers is not the MASTER himself, but only his Shadow.
The Master Magicians of the ancient world, the Druids, recog­
nized one MASTER only, and saw the hierarchies of the gods
and Adept-teachers, Man, and the Beings of the inferior
kingdoms as nothing but his Shadows, or emanated aspects.
In all ages, and under many different names, that One, the
MASTER, has been known to the initiate. He has been called
THE ANCIENT ONE, The GREAT SACRIFICE, The
INITIATOR, and by some simply THAT. When, embodied
in a human form and passing through the life of this world as a
man among men, his presence was recognized by Men of Wis­
dom, they gave him other names and titles, such as Krishna
and Jesus, the Avatar and the Christ. Never has there been a
race of men that did not accept the fact of his existence, and did
not give reverence to his Being according to the habit of its
thought; but outside initiate circles few men have, or ever
have had, any real comprehension of what his nature is, or what
his existence means to the world. O f him little is taught to
Aspirants of probationary degrees; and the reason for such
reticence is not difficult to appreciate when it is remembered
what debased conceptions of him the common man entertains.
True understanding of the Being of the MASTER cannot be
conveyed to the Neophyte, yet concerning it something must
needs be said.
N A T U R A L M A G I C 181
The MASTER is a Conscious, Divine entity, the perfected
product of a cycle of Planetary Becoming exactly analogous to
that through which this world and all that appertains to it is
now passing. Having transmuted his Sphere of Ignorance into a
Body of Knowledge and made that Body an integral part of his
Being, the MASTER became relative to it the wielder of the
Weapon of Skill in Action : in other words he became a perfect
and conscious administrator of Universal Law. As such he is
a conscious transmitter of Universal Energy ; and in that
capacity, at the opening ofthe present world-cycle he emanated
an almost infinite host of aspects of his Being into the Dark
Sphere from out of which in future ages our world and the
myriad life-forms that compose it were to evolve— a Sphere
that was not dark to him, but dark only to the dormant seeds
of Life that slept entranced within it. That Dark Sphere was our
Mother Nature in her virgin state. From and within her Being,
during the ages that have sped since that dawning of Time, the
Father-Being, THE ANCIENT ONE, has, through the never-
ceasing flow of the Energies of which he is transmitter, evoked
all that infinitude of aspects of himselfknown to Man as mani­
fest Life.
Here now, alone and unaided upon the Threshold of Dis­
covery, the Learner must be left to prosecute his search for the
GREAT INITIATOR— for THAT which stands silent and
patient and invisible waiting to initiate him who by his own
courageous pursuit of Knowledge has thus far initiated him­
self. By what signs that BEING may be known I cannot say,
for none may know him but those who have taken Knowledge
into their Being ; and they who have so taken it need no
enlightenment that man can give. It can but be said that he is
the great SACRIFICE, living in every Being and every thing
both great and small, and giving life to each by the gift of his
own life. He is the Adept waiting behind the Dark Veil to
welcome and guide the Pilgrim whose high heart has borne him
inward. He is the Model upon whose nature every true Dis­
ciple labours to mould his own. He is the Warrior of whom the
secret and sacred Scriptures speak.
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
l82
Whosoever lives in The Camp ofthe Warrior, faithful to Him,
and forgetful of self, remains always, within the limits of his own
Sphere of Action, the Chosen Instrument and Accepted Agent
of Divine Law. Whosoever lives thus knows PEACE and
shares her stronghold, though for ages his aspects— his Servitors
— must battle through the Dust of Confusion, ere they come at
last up the long ascent to the pure, still air of the Heights.
Whosoever lives thus beholds with unclouded eye the myriad
beauty of living Nature unveiled for his delighting, and hears
with awakened ear the multitudinous melody of the song she
chants in greeting to her lovers. Whosoever lives thus has the
right to command the Elemental Kings that they yield him
the secret of their Power, and the right to invoke the Ancients of
the Earth that they share with him the secrets of their Wisdom.
Whosoever, faithful and steadfast, lives thus, comes at last,
unhurried and unwearied, to the final step of the final round of
his human Path ; and there he pauses and extends his Right
Hand ; and from the Hand extended towards him— the Right
Hand of THE MASTER— he takes the Golden Rod of
UNIVERSAL VISION : but in taking he has given, and in
giving he has retained, for the Hand that gives, and the Hand
that takes, and the Hand that holds ARE NOW ONE.
By a Veil of pure Gold the Holy of Holies is hidden !
0 thou Shepherd of the Flock— Lord of the Sun,
Lift up that Veil
And give vision of the Face of the Real !
Shepherd and Lord of Life, thou Master Seer—
Lord of Death— Fire-bringer— Son of Darkness and Light,
Send forth thy beams
And melt into flame all Shadow !
That Image of thine, miraculous, I behold :
The Light of Life in the Shadow of Life—
That, and That am I !
Into that Form, lo, now I pass,
And the dust of this body I leave with the dust !
Who is the Offerer, and what is the Offering ?
1 am T h at; That is I !
N A T U R A L M A G I C 183
Lead, lead on, O WHITE-BLACKNESS ; lead, lead on,
O BLACK-FLAME—
Lead on by the Path invisible to jewelled victory !
Dark-Bright One— Nameless One— the Veil, the Veil has
lifted !
Hear now this salutation, O Child of Day and Night !
Ayihaiyowuyehe !*
* The Isha Upanishad contains a passage similar in general significance to
the above, but the latter does not derive from the Sanscrit, but from the
initiatory language I call Isinzu.
PART II
FOREWORD
Instead of Notes, which are a usual and indeed a necessary
accompaniment to lessons such as those given in Part I of this
book, I give in the lessons that follow some questions asked by
Learners, and my own answers thereto. The questions are not
inventions of my own, but are selections from a volume of
queries actually propounded by students who have heard the
subject matter of the various lessons expounded by me in
lectures, or have had private correspondence with me concern­
ing it.
The questions I have chosen to answer here have been
selected for two reasons: first, because a majority of students
appear to be interested in the points upon which they bear, and
second, because the answers they evoke serve in some measure
to fill up the wider gaps which the lessons inevitably contain.
To fill all gaps in teachings such as I have given would
naturally be impossible, and even if possible would not be
desirable. To give just enough leading to induce in the Learner
a desire to travel for himselfis always my aim, not to give him
so much as to cause him to feel that effort of his own is unneces­
sary.
Each question in each of the lessons which follow is
designated by a letter (Question A, Question B, etc.), and relates
to the passage or paragraph similarly marked in the lesson in
Part I to which that in Part II corresponds.
Each lesson in Part II relates to a lesson of corresponding
number in Part I.
P. G. B.
THE LEARNER’S QUESTIONS
I
Question A : You quote H. P. Blavatsky, the founder of the
Theosophical Movement: do you regard Theosophy as
identical with Occultism ?
Answer: Theosophy, in its original meaning of Divine
Wisdom and the pursuit thereof, was identical with Occultism,
but nowadays that meaning has been wholly lost, and no two
Theosophists of different societies, or even of the same society,
would define the term in the same way, if they attempted a
definition at all. It is best to regard it simply as a system of
Philosophy and Ethics of a nature not very clearly defined.
Occultism, on the other hand, has been defined by H. P.
Blavatsky herself as the Science of Life, leading on to mastery
of the Art of Living. In other words it is a definite Science,
upon which the practical work of hastening the evolution of
Consciousness is based.
H. P. Blavatsky drew a sharp distinction between Occult­
ism and Theosophy. In a remarkable article in her magazine
Lucifer, entitled “ Practical Occultism” , she makes it clear to
any reader of intelligence that a Theosophist at his best guides
his life by human, albeit very lofty, standards, whereas an Occult­
ist orders his according to universal law.
Every Learner should study Madame Blavatsky’s article,
which, together with another of equal importance entitled
“ Occultism v. the Occult Arts” , is obtainable in booklet
form.
Question A (subsidiary) : Would it help a Beginner not quite
ready to become a Learner tojoin a Theosophical society ?
Answer: One cannot say authoritatively what, in the way
of experience, may be helpful to a Beginner. My opinion is that
189
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
I90
it is always best to remain detached from any association to
which the suspicion of sectarianism attaches. It should be
remembered that there are at least three large societies each
claiming to be THE Theosophical Society (the society founded
by H. P. Blavatsky), and almost innumerable minor organiza­
tions, all calling themselves Theosophical. Each, by the simple
fact of its existence, proclaims all others defective in some way ;
in other words, not upholders of true Theosophy. It does not,
therefore, appear to me that there is any real difference between
joining a Theosophical society and becoming a member of a
particular Christian sect.
It will be understood, of course, that in saying this I am not
in any way condemning any of those societies or Churches.
Each and every one of them serves a section of humanity in the
only way it can be served in its existing phase of evolution. I
speak only of their possible use to the potential Occultist.
Question A (subsidiary) : Is it not a fact that many, if not
all, Theosophical societies have within them inner, esoteric, or
occult schools ; and do not these give occult training ?
Answer: Many do possess such schools, but as to whether
any of them give genuine occult training, I cannot say. As far
as my own experience of them goes, I cannot say that I have
found any that are in a true sense occult, or that give training
in true Occultism.
Question A (subsidiary) : Do you not think that the Masters
or adept Teachers who guided the Theosophical Movement in
its early days still guide it ?
Answer: That question is a source of controversy among
Theosophists themselves. Knowledge of Cyclic law compels me
into the belief that the guidance you speak of was withdrawn
three or four years prior to the end of last century. The writings
of Madame Blavatsky, and of her Teachers on the question, as
I understand them, fully confirm the belief which my indepen­
dent studies have given me.
Question A (subsidiary) : Do you consider that Madame
Blavatsky’s Teachers were Masters, or perfected men ?
Answer: Their own letters are quite explicit in regard to
their status. In those letters they state unequivocally that they
were adepts of lesser degree— certainly not “perfected” men.
T H E L E A R N E R ’ S Q U E S T I O N S i g I
Here I would point out something not understood, or at
least forgotten by the majority of would-be Occultists and
Theosophists, namely that to the student it is of no moment
whatsoever whether or not the Inspirers of the Theosophical
Movement, and modern Occultism, are still in direct contact
with any society, or whether or not they are perfected men.
It is by virtue of what he is himself that the Learner profits,
not because of the character of his school or of its Leader. A
dunce may become a member of a class led by a master mathe­
matician, but doing so will never make him a Senior Wrangler.
I advise all who would be true learners to cease to concern them­
selves about “ Masters” and inspired “schools” and concen­
trate upon such work as is taught in the seven lessons. If we want
guidance from Master Teachers we already have it in such
books as Light on the Path and The Bhagavad Gita.
Question B : Do you accept the doctrine of Reincarnation ?
Answer: I might with equal truth answer either YES or
NO to that question : everything depends upon how the term
Reincarnation is understood. I do not accept that man is a
spiritual entity of a permanent, unchanging nature, which
periodically assumes a human body in order to have earth
experiences, and periodically relinquishes it in order to assimi­
late the results of those experiences. The Law of Everbecoming
makes it impossible that any such permanent Being should
exist. Whatever reincarnates must, logically and philosophic­
ally, be fixed and unchanging in its own essential nature, and
the sole, fixed, changeless principle in man is his simple
Consciousness of Being, namely the Free Self which he expresses
when he uses the words “ I AM ” . That Consciousness of Being is
common to all mankind, and to all Self-conscious Life. It
identifies itself with, or reflects itself in, an endless procession of
forms, or limitations of Universal BEING, or LIFE, and that
identification is the only “reincarnation” that is or that can
possibly be. Reincarnation is simply re-identification of the Uni­
versal CONSCIOUSNESS, which exhibits itself as Selfin man,
with successive phases of EVERBECOMING LIFE. Man
has no permanent “Ego” peculiar to himself, but he has a
permanent Ego which he shares with all Self-conscious Life.
Study of the doctrine of Gautama Buddha, the most elevated
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
192
Teacher to which our human race has given birth, will confirm
what I say.
Question B (subsidiary) : In the absence of any permanent
Being, how is it possible to have any memory of past lives ?
Answer: LIFE is infinite and eternal, and therefore no
aspect of it can exist that has not pre-existed from no-beginning ;
and no aspect exists that will not continue to exist eternally.
Man in his Becoming quits consciousness of one phase or aspect
of LIFE for another, but that which is left is not destroyed, but
continues to exist eternally, and may be again recovered,
partially or wholly, by any Self capable of freeing itself from
immediate limitations. Such recovery, or partial re-identifica­
tion of “ I” with past phases of Being, is always being done, and
constitutes ordinary memory. Between it and memory of re­
mote phases of Being, which we call past lives, there is no
essential difference, other than that the latter demands that the
Self be freed from present limitation much more completely.
The common, natural, and indeed inevitable error in en­
deavouring to understand these matters lies in thinking that
it is the present Being of the man— the phase of Becoming with
which the Self is momentarily identified— that has had those
past experiences, whereas the truth is that they have been had
by the changeless SELF which is common to all men and to all
higher Life.
Past phases re-embraced by the Consciousness, wholly or
partially, become part of present Being, conditioning it as an
instrument of experience, in one way or another.
KARM A, the doctrine which is invariably associated with
that of Reincarnation, is also but another name for the Law of
Everbecoming. O f all so-called “Laws” , Karma, which teaches
that whatever is arises from what was, and will give rise to that
which is to be, is the most perfect means ofinstilling into ordin­
ary human minds the reality of Everbecoming ; and for this
reason, no doubt, the Buddha, the Supreme Master, made it
the centre of his whole system. Unfortunately, it is generally
grossly misunderstood, and understanding concerning it has
been inextricably confused by pronouncements upon it made
by persons quite ignorant of its real nature.
New presentations of old “laws” , such as these which 1
T H E L E A R N E R ’ S Q U E S T I O N S I93
have outlined, are useful aids towards freeing the Self, but care
must be taken not to allow them to lead you but from one trap
into another. Realization that reincarnation, as commonly
conceived, does not exist, may lead some into the error of
thinking that man has no future life to consider. Man is LIFE
manifest, and therefore exists eternally.
N
THE LEARNER’S QUESTIONS
II
Question A : How do you reconcile your teaching that one
should Desire to be Everbecoming, and have interest in the work,
with H. P. Blavatsky’s teaching in the Voice of the Silence, which
commands the Disciple to “Desire nothing” ?
Answer: No reconciliation is required. It is only those of
no intelligence, who anchor themselves to the dead letter of
“ H.P.B.’s” teachings, just as Puritans tie themselves to the
letter of the Bible, who could see any contradiction between the
Voice of the Silence and what I teach. To desire to be Everbe­
coming precludes manifestation of separative desires, and it is
obviously against those that the V.O.S. warns. Were it possible
to eliminate the Desire Principle from man’s constitution it
would mean absolute passivity for him— equivalent to extinc­
tion, for Desire is simply a manifestation of the universal
ENERGY element of LIFE.
Question B : What is the real nature of Nirvana and
Avitchi ?
Answer: Any attempt by a human being to define Nir­
vana would be an obvious absurdity, or evidence of pre­
sumptuous ignorance, for from that state no human Self ever
has or ever could return into this world ; but by consideration
of the implications of the analogy furnished in the text of the
lesson some relative conception of the Nirvanic consciousness
may be formed. It is said :
“ The more efficient a servant self is, the less does it obtrude
its existence upon the attention of the Master Self, until when
perfect in its task it ceases to be known at all, and though still
acting individually becomes virtually identical with its creator.”
Arguing from this analogy it may be conceived that a man
who has become perfect in all his duties towards the world
194
T H E L E A R N E R ’ S Q U E S T I O N S 195
ceases to have any individual manifestation in the world, and
becomes one with Universal LIFE. He has vanished from the
world, the Sphere of Action which is his ; yet all his functions
relative to that Sphere continue to be performed perfectly.
Are they now executed by LIFE itself? No, for LIFE is infinite
and the Sphere is finite : they are executed by an aspect of LIFE
identical with the Man who is not.
Avitchi is a condition the nature of which may also be de­
duced from the analogy furnished in the text. A Being that is
consistently rebellious and intractable must, under the Law
of Everbecoming, ultimately be ejected from the Sphere of the
evolving Self of the World, and have its place filled by a
new aspect of that Self, which in due time becomes educated
into individual efficiency. But the Being that is ejected, is it
destroyed ? It cannot be, for nothing that is can ever be des­
troyed. It exists in some other Sphere— or rather in a Nirvanic
state relative to a Sphere belonging to a lower round of the
Great Spiral Path to the Infinite. Out of this thinking another
thought may arise, namely that it is conceivable that there are
Beings which would elect to “reign in Hell” rather than to
“serve in Heaven” . It is not wise, however, for a Learner to
speculate much along these lines.
Question C : If circumstances make it impossible to give
freedom to a clamorous lower self, what course would you
suggest ?
Answer: What you hypothesize is an impossibility in the
case of a genuine Learner. But assuming that one is possessed by
a self such as you describe, that selfis obviously the Central, or
ruling, Self of the Being, and is the slave of its Conditions.
Escape from the thrall of Conditions is secured by balancing
one against another the powers of the positive and negative
“ Monitors” . In this case certain Monitors attract towards
positive expression of a particular kind, but certain others—
those that delimit the field of Natural Duty— call in the oppo­
site direction. If the latter are not strong enough to overcome
the power ofthe former, the result is what is called “anti-social”
conduct of one kind or another, obviously impossible for a
true Learner.
Let me repeat what was said, or at least suggested, in earlier
196 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
lessons, that Occultism has no panaceas for the troubles that
burden the average man. The way to peace may be laid before
him, but he has neither understanding to perceive it nor power
to apply the rules that appertain to it. But it is also well to
remember that the average good man, though he feels the lure
of desires he cannot gratify, nevertheless balances their attrac­
tion by realization of duty, and this without any knowledge of
occult laws. It is not the province of one like myself, who
strives to teach Learners, to attempt to prescribe for the ills
of non-Learners; but the Learner himself who has gained
some sound understanding of the lessons I have given may do
much to help others less instructed than himself.
THE LEARNER’S QUESTIONS
III
Question A : H. P. Blavatsky and other authorities teach
that it is MOTIVE, and motive alone, that makes any action
beneficent or maleficent, yet you say it is true that “the road
to Hell is paved with good intentions” . Is there no contra­
diction here involved ?
Answer: There is no contradiction. Motive and Intention
are not synonyms. Motive is the actual root-power behind any
outward manifestation of Self—it is, in fact, but another name
for the Energy aspect of a particular self whose true nature is
seldom known. Intention is merely the illusionary appearance
which that hidden self reflects into consciousness. H. P.
Blavatsky roundly condemned the actions of certain medical
researchers who experimented with hypnotism, and declared
that they were unconscious Black Magicians, yet it is impos­
sible to doubt that those men were well-intentioned in the
highest degree. Other advanced teachers, notably Anna
Kingsford, condemned, even positively hated, men who prac­
tised vivisection. Yet no one capable of truly detached observa­
tion and thinking could imagine for a moment that those
“vivisectionists and hypnotizers” were animated by any inten­
tions other than to discover cures for human ills, //"therefore
their actions were evil, savouring of Black Magic, productive
of a terrible Karma, it meant that the real motive was hidden
behind the “Veil of Self” , and that the possessor was entirely
unaware of its nature. Anna Kingsford, it is alleged by her
biographer, strove to kill by magical means certain vivisection­
ists, and such an act is unquestionably one of Black Magic,
yet none who know her life and teachings could suspect her of
any but the loftiest intentions. Personally, I doubt the accuracy
of her biographer, and have strong reasons for doubting that
197
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
198
he had any of the intimate knowledge concerning her that he
claimed.
Question B : Do you not recognize any pledge as absolutely
binding ?
Answer: It is a fundamental truth in Occultism that “each
man is his own absolute Law-giver, the bestower of glory or
gloom upon himself; the creator of his life, his reward, and
punishment” . The Learner or Disciple cannot pledge himself
to anything other than to his own Higher Self, and that Self
eternally retreats into wider wisdom. The wisdom which now
binds is absorbed in the wider wisdom of tomorrow, which may
loose. The Occultist is not bound by human law or human
oaths— but this does not mean that he needs to break a human law or a
humanpledge in order to demonstrate hisfreedom.
Question B (subsidiary) ; But in the case of a pledge to keep
occult teachings secret, which is always given to the Higher
Self, would you not hold it binding ?
Answer: The foregoing answer applies here also. The
Higher Self is the guide. Such pledges are not imposed by the
Higher Self, but by man and man-made institutions, and have
no more real meaning than any other promise unwisely given.
The fact that they are imposed proves that neither “ School”
nor “ Teacher” is truly occult. A true occult teacher accepts
responsibility for the acts of his pupil, whom he has selected,
because he has seen in him potentialities of wisdom. He will
warn him against the unwisdom of attempting to convey to the
uninstructed knowledge they are unable to grasp, and can only
corrupt to their own injury and to that of the world and the
Occult Work itself; but he will not impose upon his pupil any
irrevocably binding pledges. There is no need to do so, for
genuine occult secrets are essentially incommunicable. The
idea, encouraged by certain Esoteric Schools, that higher
Disciples and Adepts are actually oath-bound, is false and
absurd. Such menknow that they are always bound bythe Law ofLife,
and that their backslidings and unwisdom will bring upon them its due
results.
QuestionB (subsidiary) : Are there no known esoteric schools
open to Beginners, which would help them to prepare them­
selves for more advanced training ?
T H E l e a r n e r ’ s Q U E S T I O N S i g 9
Answer: There are multitudes of so-called esoteric and
occult schools and orders which accept Beginners, and many
others who are not in any true sense Beginners upon the Occult
Way. More than that, those organizations even invite and offer
students inducements to enter them, a fact that in itself proves
that they are in no real sense occult. Inasmuch as true
Occultism is concerned (I do not speak about Occult Arts),
none of these schools can teach more than that which is given
freely in the seven lessons. Very few teach as much.
THE LEARNER’S QUESTIONS
IV
Question A : How is man related, if related at all, to those
Beings commonly called fairies, or elementals, and angels or
devas ?
Answer: In exactly the same way as the middle steps of a
ladder are related to the lower and the higher steps. Elemental,
mineral, vegetable, animal, human, angel, god— all these are
but names for ascending phases of Everbecoming Life.
Question A (subsidiary) : You do not, then, accept the
Theosophical doctrine that “fairies” and “devas” belong to
a different— a parallel—stream of evolution to that which man
pursues, and therefore never pass through the human phase ?
Answer : Such doctrine, if Theosophical, is certainly not that
which H. P. Blavatsky teaches. She states in her Secret Doctrine
that every Being in the Universe either once was or is now
preparing to become a man. The teaching to which you refer,
unless it means other than appears, is obviously unphilosophical,
and not in accord with the occult doctrine, which H. P.
Blavatsky taught, of the Consciousness Principle of Life be­
coming veiled in Substance and then rising out of it through
infinite gradations of BEING into wider and wider states of
Self-consciousness. If there are orders of Beings that never pass
through the human phase, then it is necessary to assume that
their evolution never brings them Self-awareness, for the human
state simply means that state of Everbecoming wherein indi­
vidual Consciousness of Being dawns. I suggest that those
interested in this question should carefully study the
SUMMING UP to Volume I of H. P. Blavatsky’s Secret
Doctrine.
Question A (subsidiary) : Your teaching would appear to
deny the existence of Archetypes— that is to say ideal, perman-
200
201
T H E L E A R N E R ’ S Q U E S T I O N S
ently existing Divine Counterparts of all phenomenally
manifesting Beings ?
Answer: The question is difficult to answer because it is by
no means clear what the conception is which those who sub­
scribe to the doctrine of Archetypes really hold. As you state it
(which may not be correctly), it would mean that every Being
in the universe pursues its own separate line of evolution
towards union with its Archetype : in other words that which
is now a flower would ultimately become aware of itself as a
Divinely ideal flower, and the same with man or angel. That,
if it is what the doctrine implies, is merely an exaggeration of
the idea of parallel lines of evolution, and is certainly not the
Occult Doctrine as taught in Esoteric (or Mahayana) Buddhism,
the Upanishads, the Qabalah, the Hermetic teachings, or
Blavatskian Theosophy.
Question B : What are the implications of the teaching that
the stream of Negative Energy bearing results from positive
outgoing rises, or goes inward beyond the sphere of the human
Self?
Answer: The implications are many, but most important
among them is that much more than Self is affected by any
action. Beings that evolve on higher than human planes experi­
ence from human actions results which pass beyond the Sphere
of Consciousness of the actor ; and so also do embryonic aspects
of the human Self. Beginners on the Occult Way should strive
to understand that though their struggles and apparent failures
bring little or no light of real knowledge into consciousness,
nevertheless highly important effects from those experiences
may be arising behind the “Veil of Self”— effects which one
day may emerge as a sudden illumination.
Question C : You insist that realization of duty to wife and
family is a highly important balancing force, yet H. P.
Blavatsky taught that even love of wife and family is a bar to
real occultism : can you explain the contradiction ?
Answer: There is no contradiction, because different con­
ditions are in question. “H.P.B.” speaks of the common human
love of wife and child which makes the man selfish on their
behalf. I speak of realization of duty in the particular Sphere of
Action of which wife and child are chief landmarks. But it
202 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
must also be understood that “H.P.B.” spoke of real occultism—
Discipleship, in fact—whereas I speak to the Learner just
beginning to move towards Discipleship. Her intention, in the
article where she gave the teaching quoted, is to bring home to
ignorant students some understanding of the fact that they are
wholly unprepared for a genuine occult effort. My aim in these
lessons is to lead Beginners to prepare themselves for Disciple­
ship, which may not come in this life.
THE LEARNER’S QUESTIONS
V
Question A : Should not symbolic or ritual dancing have
equal place with poetry, music, and art as an instrument of
Invocation ?
Answer: No. Such dances are unsafe for the Learner.
Certainly they form an instrument, both of Invocation and
Evocation, but more particularly of the latter. In dancing the
“ Lord” of Number predominates excessively, and the law is
that where any single Hierarchy so predominates it tends to
possess the Self and carry it outward into objective activity—
into sensuous, if not sensual, expression, in fact. The Learner is
most earnestly advised, if he attempts Invocation or Evocation,
to confine himself strictly to the Instruments mentioned in the
lessons.
Question A (subsidiary) : Which, if any, of the “ Guardian
Lords” rule in Scent, which is a common adjunct of ceremonial ?
Answer : Scent, flavour, touch are neither of them governed
directly by the “ Guardian Lords” , but by lesser Hierarchies
which may be regarded as emanations of the greater. The Ruling
“ Lord” of Scent has Colour for his Overlord, with Sound only
slightly less dominant.
Question B : Is there any correspondence between the
Guardian Lords and the so-called Elements, Earth, Water,
Air, Fire ?
Answer : The influence of all four “ Lords” is present in each
Element: Idea rules Earth ; Number rules Water ; Sound rules
Air ; Colour rules Fire.
Question C : What is the occult view of the Bible ?
Answer: I cannot answer for Occultism in general, but only
for the Occult Body with which I myself am associated, which,
203
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
20
4
however, because centred in the regions whence the Bible
sprang, is likely to be fairly well informed on the subject.
The Bible is made up of fragments of Occult teachings,
Invocatory and Evocatory chants and poems, Mystery Stories
and Dramas— all derived by the Hebrews from the Mystery
schools of Egypt and Chaldea, but principally from the latter
during the Babylonian captivity, when many young men
became disciples of, and even Initiates of, the Mysteries— and
all interwoven with Jewish tribal legends and semi-historical
narrative. The New Testament is not, of course, part of the
Hebrew Scriptures at all. The central figure was a great
Teacher— perhaps what in India would be called an Avatar—
who lived, and gave the distinctive teachings associated with
the name ofJesus, in the Greco-Roman world of the Middle
East, perhaps a century or more prior to the time in which he
is popularly supposed to have lived. The Gospel narrative is in
no sense historical. It is most definitely portion of a Mystery
Drama illustrating the life, progress, and apotheosis of a candi­
date in the Greater Mysteries, with which is interwoven much
of the actual teachings of the Teacher, together with many
interpolations by later scribes and interpreters. Paul, the real
founder of Christianity, was unquestionably an Initiate of the
Mysteries. His success in Asia Minor and Greece was clearly
due to the fact that he taught no new doctrine, but simply
purged the ancient Mystery doctrine of the corruptions, which
by that date had come upon it, and made Jesus its central
figure, in place of one of the earlier deities.
Question D : Who and what is the Being of which you speak
“ whose nature is all-embracing and omnipresent in our world” ?
Answer : I speak of the Spiritual Being of our planet. Some
would, perhaps, call it the “ Planetary Logos” . It is of three
aspects, Father, Mother, and Son. The “ Father” aspect is
composed of the Consciousness, and the Energy elements of
our world, and is emanated by the Planetary Spirit, described
in Lesson VII, and called the MASTER. NATURE is the
“ Mother” . The evolving Self of our planet is the “ Son” . Strictly
speaking, it is to this “ Son” that the term “Logos” should
apply ; but obviously, also, the “ Son” partakes of the “Father”
and the “ Mother” nature besides being himself.
Here it is well to make clear that in what I say of
the “Logos” , or of any other metaphysical doctrine which is the
subject of controversy, I am neither laying down a law nor
dogmatically declaring that thus and thus only should the
occult doctrine be interpreted. In all instances I give either my
own intuitional interpretations or else the teachings of the
school with which I am associated. Neither this school nor
myself wish in any way to impose a special doctrine on the
world or to challenge the truth of doctrines favoured by
others.
THE LEARNER’S QUESTIONS
VI
Question A : From whence derive the various quotations
which you attribute to the ancient Masters ?
Answer: All unacknowledged quotations in this book, and
all attributed in a general way to “the Hermetic Masters” , etc.,
are taken from the ancient Scripture from which the teachings
translated in my book, The Sayings of the Ancient One,* are also
taken. This Scripture is the principal study of members of the
school with which I am associated.
Question B : ON PHYSICAL TRAINING.
Answer: I will consider the attention and training which the
body should receive under the following headings :
(i) Exercise. (2) Food and Drink. (3) Bathing. (4) Sleep.
(5) Clothing. (6) Sex.
(1) Exercise.
I consider exercise under the following heads : (a) For
establishing BALANCE of body. (b) Correct breathing, (c)
Correct walking. (d
,) Walking and breathing, (e) General
exercises. (/) Special breathing.
(a) Balance.— Balance of Being is the Key to command of
Being, and so also is balance of body the key to command of the
bodily instrument. The method of securing it is simple in the
extreme, but if the Learner suffers from any of the disabilities
mentioned in Lesson VI it may be difficult if not impossible to
apply.
Let the eyes look straight forward at exactly their own
level, neither turned upward, as they are when the head is
inclined forward, nor downward, as they are when the head is
thrown back and the chin elevated ; let the thought centre
* Published by Rider & Co., Paternoster Row, London.
206
T H E L E A R N E R ’ S Q U E S T I O N S 207
itself in the nape of the neck, and let this point be pressed back
as though against resistance. If these simple requirements are
fully carried out the whole body will inevitably fall into an
erect and balanced posture, whether one is sitting or standing.
Apart from position of the eyes and nape of neck it is un­
necessary to think ofthe body at all. There should be no bracing
of the shoulders, no protrusion of the chest, and no retraction
of the abdomen. On the contrary, the muscles of all those
parts, especially of abdomen and waist, should be relaxed as
much as possible.
With a little patient practice the position of eyes and neck
will become habitual, and thereafter thought can be wholly
withdrawn from the body.
It is obvious that this adjustment of balance, simple though
it is, may be impossible to a person afflicted with any disease or
deformity of the spine, or to a middle-aged person whose
muscles have become stiffened in bad postures. Nevertheless
persons so afflicted cannot injure themselves, and indeed may
benefit themselves very considerably, by patient attempts to
act as directed.
(b) Breathing.— To be able to breathe fully, deeply, and regu­
larly, without effort, is a necessity to true health. No attempt at
deep breathing should ever be made until habitual balance of
body has been established.
To breathe correctly, sit or stand in the BalancedPosture. Let
the breath flow into the body without effort or strain. Let the
relaxed waist and abdomen expand first, then the diaphragm
and ribs, and lastly the upper chest. The moment you become
conscious that an effort is required, if more air is to be inhaled,
exhale in the same effortless way, letting the upper chest sink
down, the ribs fall inward, and the abdomen retract.
If you are a woman the diaphragm and ribs will be the
first to expand, and the expansion of the upper chest will be
greater than in a man.
Practise this breathing systematically for five or ten minutes
every morning and for the same period at night. Practise it
also whenever opportunity permits.
(c) Walking.— Walking is the commonest of human actions,
yet rarely is it performed efficiently by civilized man, mainly
208 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
because his body is unbalanced. If the rules of Balance are
observed when walking as well as when sitting or standing it
will not be difficult to walk correctly. Pay attention, also, to
the following points :
Remember that walking is a forward motion of the whole
body. Propulsion is received from the rearmost leg and foot,
which thrusts the body forward. The other leg should swing
forward with the moving body, and the foot should come to
the ground with the body still balanced over it. Reaching for­
ward with the moving leg beyond the centre of gravity of the
body induces fatigue and unbalance, for the body is trans­
formed into a dead weight which has to be draggedforward by a
secondary muscular effort ofthe leading leg.
Do not try to walk at a pace greater than is natural to you.
Length of stride depends on length of limb, and upon the
power of the thrust given by the rear leg and foot. Utilization
of the calf muscles to raise the heel and bring the weight on to
the ball of the foot and toes will lengthen the stride more
effectively and with less fatigue than will reaching forward
with the moving limb. The degree of rapidity with which the
limbs are moved depends upon the character of the nervous,
not upon that of the muscular, system.
(d) Walking andBreathingExercise.— The following exercise is
the most important sensitizer and purifyer within reach of the
Learner. Correct balance, mode of breathing, and mode of
walking must be established before its practice is begun.
Find your most comfortable walking pace— probably
between two and four miles per hour : over four miles per hour
would imply an unusually athletic physique, and under two
some defect or abnormality. Now inhale fully and deeply in the
manner outlined while taking a certain number of steps, and
exhale again fully while taking an equal number of steps. Be
careful not to strain in any way, either by attempting to inhale
an excessive amount of air or by taking too many steps to each
breath. For a man of good physique four steps to each inhala­
tion, and the same to each exhalation, in early attempts at this
exercise, rising to six or eight when well practised, may be
regarded as the standard ; but each individual must make his
or her own rule.
T H E L E A R N E R ’ S Q U E S T I O N S 209
When the practice is first attempted, rest, when you have
covered half a mile, by changing the pace to a gentle stroll,
and breathing normally. As you become habituated to the
practice the rhythmic breathing can be continued throughout
the whole ofyour walking exercise for an hour, or two hours, or
more. In addition to that you should aim at establishing a
habit of breathing in this manner whenever you walk abroad.
Aim also at filling the lungs more and more completely at each
inhalation, and emptying them more and more thoroughly
at each exhalation ; but always take care that the work is done
without strain.
This exercise burns up and expels impurities from the body
more effectively than any other known practice. For this
reason it not only ensures against disease but it may be the
means of eradicating chronic, constitutional complaints of
many kinds. Here I teach it simply as a means of purifying and
sensitizing the body, and mention its other benefits only for the
possible helping of many who suffer from ill health. It has but
one disadvantage, namely that it requires pure air and a place
not frequented by crowds for its practice, and is therefore not
so readily available to those who live in large cities.
(e) General Exercises.— If it were possible for the Learner to
devote two to four hours per day to the foregoing practice he
would not, if he lived also in the manner to be described later,
need any additional exercise. But the vast majority of Learners
have no such time at their disposal as is needed, and must
therefore find other means of giving their bodies the exercise it
requires.
O f systems of physical culture for daily use in the home the
number is legion, but of that number few, if any, fill the needs
of the Aspirant to Discipleship. The Neophyte seeks a pure,
sensitive, poised physical instrument, not large muscles and
great strength. Whatever system he follows must to a con­
siderable extent be artificial, but one modelled as nearly as
possible upon the activities of the untutored child is the
ideal.
I cannot here undertake the task of formulating an ideal
system of home exercises, for that could not be done effectively
except by the aid of numerous photographic illustrations ; and
o
2 1 0 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
I must therefore content myself with suggesting a reasonably
efficient substitute, as follows :
Get yourself a manual of Free Gymnastics— the manual of
Physical Training as used in the Army is the most useful. From
among the exercises given select two simple neck exercises, two
leg exercises, one arm exercise, two hip exercises, one shoulder
exercise, two waist exercises, two abdominal exercises, two back
exercises. Let your selections all be simple natural movements—
bending and stretching of the trunk, bending, stretching,
extending, and lowering of the limbs. On rising each
morning go through these fourteen exercises in the order set
forth : (x, neck ; 2, legs; 3, arms ; 4, hips ; 5, shoulders ; 6,
waist; 7, abdomen ; 8, back).
There is an importance—not understood, as far as I am
aware, by any of the exponents of physical culture methods— in
exercising, as described, from the extremities of the body
inward to the centre.
Perform each exercise until the first suspicion of fatigue in
the parts affected becomes perceptible. Endeavour to breathe
rhythmically while exercising, inhaling with the raising or
stretching movement and exhaling with the reverse.
It is best to exercise unclothed, or at least clad only in night
attire. Wear thick woollen socks, or warm bedroom slippers.
Having finished the exercises, remove clothing (if worn).
Dip palms of hands in cold water and rub quickly over the
entire body, from extremities to centre, omitting no part
whatsoever. Dry rapidly with towel.
This work should not occupy more than twenty to thirty
minutes.
Before retiring at night perform the special “Body-rubbing”
exercises to be found in the little book entitled My System, by
Lieutenant Muller ; but instead of doing the rubbing with dry
palms, dip the palms very lightly in water (which may be
warm in very cold weather) at the beginning of each exercise,
and continue the exercise until the moisture has completely
evaporated. Then at once get into bed. This will occupy from
five to ten minutes.
These systematic exercises, done in addition to half an
hour’s Walldng and Breathing exercise, carried out whenever
2 1 1
T H E L E A R N E R ’ S Q U E S T I O N S
circumstances will permit, supply all that the body needs in the
way of exercise. If the Walking-Breathing exercise cannot be
done, the Special Breathing exercise described below may be
added, but not until you are well confirmed in the general mode
of living described in this section.
(/) Special Breathing Exercise.— Having done your “Body­
rubbing” exercises, He flat on the back, head unsupported by
pillow, on the bed, if it is quite level; if not, on a rug spread on
the floor. Cover the body with some Hght but warm covering.
Let all the muscles relax to the utmost, picturing in
imagination the body as a great weight sinking into the floor.
When relaxation is complete, gently draw up the heels,
inward towards the buttocks, crossing the legs and letting the
knees fall outward, so that, if elasticity of muscle permits, they
may lie on floor or bed. Rest the hands on the groins. Close the
eyes and strive to put the body out ofyour thoughts, by pictur­
ing a featureless space into which you look. Now inhale very
slowly, in the manner already learned, until no more air can
enter the body. Then without pause exhale, giving exactly the
same time to the act as you gave to the inhalation, until as
much air as possible has been expelled from the lungs. At each
successive breath extend the time devoted to it until it is double
that given to the first— thus supposing the first inhalation, and
exhalation occupy ten seconds each, allow a second longer to
each succeeding inhalation and exhalation, until twenty seconds
to each is reached. Continue to breathe at that rate for a time,
but never for more than ten minutes. Then at once compose
yourself to sleep.
Beginners in the practice may find five seconds for the first
breath and ten for the longest as much as they can manage
without strain ; but well-practised persons of pure body may
easily extend the longest breath to thirty or forty seconds, or
even to one minute.
This exercise is somewhat akin in nature to the Hatha
Yoga breathing exercises, ofwhich most students have heard or
read something, but ofwhich few have any true understanding.
UnUke those exercises, this that I describe is perfectly safe to
use, and immensely beneficial, always providing that it is not
attempted until the body has first been prepared by some
212 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
months of careful observance of all the rules of living which I
give.
In its practice observe the following precautions. Let the
Self be active in its contemplation of whatever it has chosen
to concentrate on— an image of open sea or of sky is best. By
activity I mean be definitely an observer, and do not let what
you contemplate absorb you, for to do that will quickly bring
transfer of consciousness into the dreaming state. If any strong
tendency towards that is perceived, stop the exercise.
Lastly, lie always with head to the north.
(2). Food and Drink.
Extreme moderation as to quantity, and extreme simplicity
as to quality, in regard to food and drink are the ideals towards
which the Learner should aspire. No drastic changeofor reduction
in the diet to which one is habituated should ever be made, for
nothing can result from so doing but disturbance, not merely
of body but of emotions and thoughts. Much harm has been
done by those ignorant of the law of these matters by preaching
uncompromising vegetarianism, total abstinence from alcohol,
condiments, tobacco, and even tea and coffee, to persons
wholly unprepared for such radical changes.
Ultimately, when we become high Adepts, we shall live on
uncooked fruits and milk, or perhaps only water, but while we
are but Learners a moderate allowance of meat, and an occa­
sional indulgence in alcohol, will not halt our progress. To seek
to eliminate these articles from our dietary is right, and must be
done, but it must be done gradually, taking care that there is
no violent outraging of the desire of the body for such pabulum.
All that is needed to effect dietary adjustments is to apply the
rules of Self-examination and Self-questioning taught in other
lessons. Desire of certain articles of food and drink differs only
in mode of manifestation from any other desire, and can be
dealt with as that is dealt with.
The mere Learner should aim at substituting eggs, cheese,
and perhaps fish, for butcher’s m eat; at eliminating strong
condiments and alcoholic drinks ; and at replacing white with
wholemeal bread. In addition, if circumstances permit, he
should strive to reduce the quantity of starchy food consumed,
T H E L E A R N E R ’ S Q U E S T I O N S 2 1 3
and fill its place with fruit and vegetables. If with this he very
gradually reduces quantity eaten to half the usual amount he
will have done as much as it is possible and useful to do.
Use of Water. Drink as much water as you conveniently can.
Before morning exercise drink a glass ofcold water, and another
glass, or two, in smallquantities at a time during the course ofthe
exercises. Drink atleastone glass ofwaterbetween eachmeal, and
atbedtime. Shouldyouwake duringthe night, drinkanotherglass.
The relation of diet to the particular grade or phase of
Becoming occupied by the Aspirant is a matter of high impor­
tance, but one of which only a few know anything. Little can
be said of it here, except to draw attention to certain rules
governing the mode of living of Candidates in the Ancient
Mystery schools :
There were four grades or circles in the Mystery Schools.
Candidates in the first or outer circle, which in the Greek
schools appertained to the Mysteries ofDionysos, were permitted
the use of flesh foods of certain specified kinds, and of wine.
In the next circle— that of candidates in the Mysteries of
Aphrodite— of flesh foods fish only was eaten, but wine was
permitted.
In the third circle— that of the devotees ofHermes— no flesh
foods were permitted; nothing but uncooked fruits, cooked
vegetables, milk, cheese, and eggs. Wine “lightly fermented”
might be drunk.
In the Circle of Apollo, the highest grade of the Mysteries,
no cooked food; nothing but sun-ripened fruits, green vege­
tables, unfermented wine, milk, and water might be used.
The intelligent Learner may recognize that to be privileged
to eat the food of Apollo one must have entered the Circle of
Apollo. For the ignorant man, not yet “ accepted” even into the
Circle of Dionysos, to attempt to live on the “food of the gods”
would be an act which instead of lifting him into Hierophant-
ship would bring certain punishment upon him for his sacrilege.
(3). Bathing.
Extreme cleanliness of body is necessary if one would
make it an efficient instrument; but cleanliness should be
secured, if it is at all possible to do so, without the excessive
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
214
use of hot water and soap so common in modern civilized life.
Those who live a natural, abstemious life in unpolluted country
air need never have recourse to hot water and soap, but those
who live in cities must do so, unfortunately. Nevertheless, if the
exercises already described, including the nightly rubbing of
the entire body with wet palms, is consistently followed, the
number of hot baths with the use of soap may with great
advantage be reduced to one a week for women and one a fort­
night for men. To the many who make almost a fetish of the hot
bath thisadvice may doubtless seem peculiar, but it has a reason.
The normal, active skin secretes a certain oily substance rich
in a particular “ vitamin” , which latter is absorbed into the
blood-stream to the great advantage of the individual con­
cerned. But if over-frequent hot baths with use of soap are
taken the oil is washed away, and the “vitamin” lost before it
can be absorbed.
The feet should have careful attention. The toe-nails should
be kept in good order. Before dressing and before retiring dip the
soles very lightly in water and dry by vigorous rubbing with the
palms of the hands. Better still is it to walk barefoot in wet grass.
(4). Sleep.
Natural man should go to sleep six hours after the
highest point of vitality 'of tthe day has been reached— in
other words about 9 to 10 p.m. He should rise about three
hours after the lowest point of the vital tide has been passed—
at about 5.30 a.m. to 6 a.m. Obviously it is impossible to
observe such hours in our civilized existence, but the Learner
should strive to have at least one hour of sleep before midnight,
and also to be actively astir three hours before midday. If it is
impossible to get to bed before midnight, try to obtain one to
two hours of sleep at any time between 4 p.m. and midnight,
even in a chair.
Let the bed be low, and level, and the pillow low.
Comfortable warmth is essential, but avoid hea\y bedclothes.
Sleep with head to the north or east.
In the country, where the air is pure, and population
sparse, it is best to sleep at ground level, but in the city an upper
chamber is best.
215
T H E L E A R N E R ’ S Q U E S T I O N S
(5) . Clothing.
Avoid wearing clothing of wool, or of any animal
product except silk, next the skin. It is best to wear no
underclothing of any kind. In a climate like that of the British
Isles a heavier overcoat in winter should suffice to preserve
warmth. The idea that woollen underclothing must be donned
with the first frosts of winter is a most harmful delusion. I, who
give these lessons, though I passed the greater part of my life in
hot climates, never wear undergarments, and suffer less from
cold than the majority of persons who have lived at home all
their lives.
But be careful not to make sudden drastic changes in your
mode of clothing yourself, any more than you do in adjusting
your diet. To do anything of the kind is to fall into the old trap
of changing conditions without having first changed your own
nature.
(6) . Sex.
It has already been stated in Lesson V I that diseases
and abnormalities of the sex nature are obstacles to the
serious practice of Evocation. The same remarks apply to an
unnatural sex life of any kind. The subject is one of the highest
importance to the Aspirant to the PATH, but it would need a
book to itself to expound it satisfactorily. A few brief remarks
upon it must, however, be made, in order to dispel certain
erroneous ideas which afflict many would-be Occultists, to a
greater extent, even, than they afflict the average man.
(1) . A completely celibate life, except for a few exceptional
persons, is a definite bar to advance beyond the scope of Lesson
IV. Particularly is this so in a woman, who, far more often than
a man, is celibate through force of circumstances rather than
from natural choice.
(2) . Chastity is traditionally regarded as essential in an
Occultist, but the real meaning of the virtue is wholly mis­
understood. Chastity does not mean total abstinence from sex
relations any more than true asceticism means total abstinence
from food.* Like all other Virtues, it means taking what in the
* It should be remembered that here, as elsewhere, I speak to the Learner
of the life of the Learner, and am not declaring what is or what is not true of
the life of the high Adept.— P. G. B.
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
2 l 6
way of experience is strictly demanded by existing conditions,
and nothing more. It is a state of the Inner Being— a state
wherein there is detachment of Self from the Powers of Being
(Lesson IV), together with recognition of the nature of the
Field of Experience into which those Powers would lead, or
towards which they point : in other words a state of knowledge of
the needs of the Being.
It is, or it should be, perfectly obvious that the course of the
Neophyte is onward towards the True Virtue of Chastity (study
Lesson III), but that he has by no means yet attained it. His
ignorant attempts to practise that which he imagines it to be
can lead to nothing but unbalance of Being.
The “ Sex Problem” is a problem only to disordered and
unbalanced civilized man, in our civilized conditions. Pseudo­
occultism makes matters worse by its ignorant attempts to
enforce “rules” which apply to grades of progress far beyond
the reach of the average Learner, and which are not in any
way understood. The ancient Ordinances of Mam were written
by wiser men— men who knew that the phase of Householder
and Father must precede that of Sage.
Far more harmful than celibacy are any artificial substitutes
for normal sexual relationships, although such practices have
been openly advocated by certain teachers of Occultism. If
such teachers had any genuine occult knowledge, their motives
cannot possibly have been those which alone should animate
the True Occultist— attainment of conscious union with the
SPIRIT which is LIFE.
What sexual abnormalities or unnatural sex habits may be
made to do, when accompanied by certain subjective activities
not wise to mention, is to rouse psychic powers and faculties
into action, or induce mediumistic conditions. Even without
any conscious accessary subjective activity, celibacy, and
unnatural practices often conduce to mediumship and other
undesirable psychic states.
Let the Learner strive diligently to apply the Laws of Life
as taught in these lessons, and follow the Path outlined step by
step, and he will find his problems losing their power, while
peace and harmony arise in their places.
THE LEARNER’S QUESTIONS
VII
Question A : Are there any records, or other authorities,
that may be consulted concerning Druidism and the Ancient
Mysteries ?
Answer : I do not know. For anything I have said concerning
the Druids or the Mysteries I give no authority, for I have none
of value to any but to those whose Thought moves on the same
Path as my own. Whether what I aver concerning the Druids
and the Mysteries be regarded as intuitions of actual truths or
as mere empty imaginings matters nothing to the Learner.
Question B : What is the actual difference between Macro-
cosmic and Microcosmic Consciousness ?
Answer : Were man able to exercise the Macrocosmic Con­
sciousness, all life that is now objective to him would become
subjective. He would be the essential MAN, and of his Con­
sciousness the Selves of all men would be but aspects.
Question C : Does not Theosophy teach that primeval Man
created the Animal kingdom ?
Answer : As far as I am aware H. P. Blavatsky taught that
Man preceded the Animal in the present “ round” , or world
cycle. Her doctrine, occultly understood, is identical with that
which I state in the text of the lesson. It should be obvious to
any really intelligent student that Madame Blavatsky’s teach­
ing as actually set forth is exoteric, not occult. She expressed it in
fact in symbolic forms which if taken at their face value, as
they would have to be by the enormous majority of her readers,
would nevertheless be true analogies of LIFE, as far as those
readers could understand LIFE. But she also proved herself a
genuine Occultist by choosing a symbolism capable of reveal­
ing the real or inner doctrine without a flaw, to those capable of
comprehending it. In this lies the difference between her
217
2 l 8 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
teachings and those of other persons who declare themselves
her successors. One of the latter recently declared that early
man gave birth to the animals by dropping “spores and debris”
from his body over the face of the primordial earth.
Question D : How is it possible to have “Action without
results” ?
Answer: I can but point out that LIFE exists in a state of
incessant activity, and yet remains changeless. Result implies
change. Within the Sphere which the Adept has completely
transcended and transmuted into a Body of Knowledge he has
become consciously one with LIFE, and his actions have
become identical with LIFE’S activities; these activities con­
stitute his Being, and cannot therefore bring him results or
changes.
It is possible to express the conception otherwise by saying
that KNOWLEDGE cannot be other than a state of activity,
yet the activity does not change KNOWLEDGE into some­
thing else. The result of KNOWLEDGE is KNOWLEDGE to
him who possesses it.
THE LEARNER’S QUESTIONS
MISCELLANEOUS
Question: Is there anything to be gained by a Learner
through study of ASTROLOGY ?
Answer : Exoteric Astrology, by which I mean divination,
character-reading, and the like by means of the stars and other
heavenly bodies, cannot advantage a genuine Learner. He has
progressed beyond the stage where dabbling in semi-occult
arts, one of which astrology is, as a form of experience can
have any attraction for him, and he has not yet reached the
point whence study with knowledge of the true occult
ASTROLOGY becomes possible for him.
Question : Is it possible to read the future from the stars, or
in any other way ?
Answer: One of Earth’s Great Ones when asked a similar
question replied : “ALL THAT WAS IS, AND ALL IS THAT
IS TO BE.” In LIFE infinite and eternal, its infinite phases,
each and all, exist eternally, but they do not so exist in the
limited consciousness of man. It is therefore possible to any
man who can free his Consciousness from the limitations we
call TIME to see past, future, and present as one. Not merely
may real study of the stars thus set Self free, but study of the
earth, of man himself, of any form or phase of LIFE, may do so
also. But if it is meant, do certain stellar and planetary con­
figurations relative to any individual reveal his destiny defi­
nitely, the answer, equally definitely, must be that they do not.
The common idea that man is ruled or has his destiny
determined by the stars is wrong and obstructive of genuine
occult progress. Man rules himself and makes his own destiny.
It may be said that the stars (and innumerable other indicatory
aspects of life) reflect aspects of his Being that condition his
Becoming, but that is all. He is not of necessity bound by any
of his conditions.
219
220 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
Knowledge of much more than the objective stars and
planets is needed to “ cast” a true “ Horoscope” .
Knowledge of the dates and places of re-births is needed
even more than is knowledge of those of physical birth. For
example, the natal Horoscope becomes null and void in the
case of a Learner who passes on into accepted Discipleship.
True Astrology, like true Magic, depends upon knowledge
of Macrocosmic and Microcosmic correspondences.
Question : If, as I understand from the lessons, only an
embryonic Self functions in the Dream-world, in what way do
you account for definitely prophetic dreams, which would
seem to be messages from an almost omniscient consciousness ?
Answer: Numberless impressions come over from sleeping
states into the waking consciousness, but by no means all come
from true dreams. The subject is immensely complex and
difficult, and to discuss it here would, even if possible, not be
useful. O f the genuine prophetic “ dream” this may be said,
that it does not come from the true dreaming state, but from
quite another state. You have learned in the lessons that with
the completion of any cycle of experience the Self achieves
freedom : before it becomes again involved in another set of
conditions there is a moment— an interval not in time, when it is
reunited with the ONE LIFE, and there is relatively omnis­
cient, beholding past and future, cause and effect, all as one.
It is from out of thosefree states, of which, it is possible, there
may be more than one between going to sleep and waking, that
any genuine fore-vision comes.
Question : What is your explanation of National Devas, and
similar Beings of which psychics and others give such circum­
stantial accounts ?
Answer: It is obviously impossible to pronounce upon the
vision which others may have had. The psychic, even the adept
seer, objectifies a phase of the EVERBECOMING, gives it
form and name, but that he interprets its nature correctly is a
matter of grave doubt. A nation, a race, a country, a locality is
an aspect of Everbecoming Life, and therefore a Being, but is it
to be thought that its inner, essential Being— the radiator of
the Energies which, associating with the Consciousness of man,
cause man to recognize its existence— is a highly evolved entity
221
T H E L E A R N E R ’ S Q U E S T I O N S
capable of planning wisely on its behalf, as many writers will
have it happens ? Where do we find a race or a nation acting
as a genuine Self-directing unit, as does the least developed
man ? The nearest thing to a united consciousness exhibited by
a body of human beings is the Mob Consciousness, and to what
evolutionary level does that belong ?
The key to understanding of this matter has already been
given in the answer to your question concerning the “ Spiritual
Being” of the Planet. “ Father, Mother, and Son” exist every­
where, in every phase of LIFE, yet equally are illusions of
limited Consciousness to the Eye of the ONE LIFE.
Question: When you speak of “Hermetic Schools” , or
“ Hermetic Wisdom” , do you refer to the medieval Alchemists,
Qabalists, Rosicrucians, and others, followers of the so-called
“ Western Tradition” , which often call themselves Hermetic ?
Answer : I refer to none of these, but to the much older, now
lost or buried, Mystery Schools of the ancient Mediterranean
world, of which Chaldea and Egypt are fragments. The
“ schools” to which you refer are all offshoots of this older
school, though perhaps with little knowledge of their origin.
Question : Can you say what the true meaning of the “Black
Path” , and of the existence of the Black Magician, may be ?
Answer: The truth about these matters are occult secrets
which are beyond the scope of these lessons, and outside the
sphere of my own knowledge. It is well for the Learner to
recognize this, and not to concern himself with speculations
that can bring him no profit. Let it be said that the ordinary
man, or the Neophyte, cannot become a Black Magician any
more than he can become a White Adept. Not until he is a fully
accepted Disciple can he choose his Path. When he does choose,
his choice is made by a Spiritual Consciousness fully awakened.
The Neophyte may stray into various blind-alleys, which
may with a certain justice be called offshoots of the Black Path,
but from out of these the Law compels him to turn, and with
heavy labour climb back to the Threshold, for not until he has
crossed it can he choose his way.
Question : Concentration and Meditation, which are leading
features of all occult systems, are not discussed in your lessons.
Do you disapprove of their practice ?
222 T H E O C C U L T W A Y
Answer: The outstanding error of Learners, in whom it is
excusable, and of many teachers, who teach without wisdom,
is that they associate Occultism with practices rather than with
PRACTICE. They imagine that the performance of certain
exercises and the pursuance of certain studies constitute the
Occult Way, instead of recognizing it as the Art of Living.
Concentration and Meditation are not exercises forming
features of the Occult Way ; the Occult Way is the Way of Con­
centration and Meditation. That Way is the W AY OF LIFE
itself. CONSCIOUSNESS becomes concentrated—wholly
absorbed in SUBSTANCE, only to withdraw again from it
into ever-expanding KNOWLEDGE bringing ever-widening
FREED O M ; and it is this Freedom-bringing Knowledge
which is sought in true Meditation.
I teach no exercises in Concentration and Meditation, but
in every lesson I teach the Life of Concentration and Medita­
tion.
It was the hope of the great man whose life and whose will
inspired and compelled the writing of these lessons that they
would open the eyes of at least a few to the truth that the
secret of life is discovered by LIVING with LIFE, and that
they would turn those few from their fruitless chase after the
many phantom reflections of the LIGHT, which gleam clear,
and apparently near, in this book and in that, in one teacher
and in another. Often, warningly and approvingly, he would
quote the sonorous words in which a fellow poet and fellow sage
of the Orient contrasted his own Way with the Way of his
pupil. Consider them and meditate upon them, for they reveal
the Way of Concentration and Meditation :
“ He saw the lightning in the East, andlongedfor the East; hadhe
seen it in the West he would have longedfor the West / but I, seeking
only the Lightning and its Glory, care nothingfor the Quarters of the
Earths
LAST WORDS
There now remains to be said only that which it is more usual
to say in a Preface, but which, for reasons that all true Learners
will, I think, appreciate, I deem it wisest to say at the end
rather than at the beginning of this book.
The writing of the Seven Lessons was a task laid upon me
by the Great Soul, to whose memory I have dedicated this
work— a task which he himself would have executed had the
activities of his amazingly full life left him the necessary time.
What he projected was a definite attempt— the first really
definite attempt of the kind made in these modern times— to
teach the Occult, or Inner Way of Life, as it was taught in the
ancient, and as it is still taught in the secret modern, Hermetic
Schools, but in such a manner that, without exotericizing the
doctrine, it might yet be made comprehensible to the intelligent
though uninstructed student. He designed to show that upon
the Ancient Wisdom— upon the ageless, hidden, yet universal
Doctrine of the SPIRIT, the ONE LIFE, the ONE BEING—
alone depends the true Art of Living ; and that, equally, upon
Living the Life depends certainty that Knowledge of the Doctrine
will ultimately be found.
That a pioneer attempt of this kind could be made with
entirely successful results, even by one possessed of the wide
vision and great gifts of him who conceived it, is, at least,
improbable, and of the weakness and imperfection of my own
effort I am most deeply conscious. I have failed, I think, be­
cause in striving to reveal overmuch I have succeeded in
sketching a broken outline only, not a clear pattern. For what
I have done the best I can hope is that it be recognized as a
disarticulated skeleton, and that as time goes on it may be
reassembled by some more skilful workman, and by him, or by
others yet more skilled, at last be reclothed with living flesh.
I have worked, as I have already declared in the first lesson
223
T H E O C C U L T W A Y
224
which this book contains, for the Learner, and for him only ; yet
he, if he will but summon to his aid the Power of True Self, the
SELF of ALL, though now he be but one of the FEW, may
become one day the instrument whereby the FEW are trans­
muted into the MANY.
To that LEARNER let the ANCIENT ONE speak :
“ Look, O my son, for the STAR ! The STAR, O Child
who would be a Man, will gleam upon you as the Night wanes,
and the Storms of the Dark Hours die away into a Peace that
is Herald of the Dawn. That STAR does not rise nor does it
set : IT holds a fixed place beyond the clouds in the depths of a
speckless sky ; but not until the Thunders are hushed and the
Storm Fog shreds apart can its Golden Light descend to earth
and dispel the Gloom of your Night.
“ Know, O son, that this Nature in which you live and
labour is, like the mid-air about high mountains, the Play­
ground and the Battleground of the Gods of Storm. Not until
you dominate those Angels of Strife, and marshal them in
legions obedient to your word, will the Clouds of their Breath
of Fury lift and the DAWN STAR illumine the Sleeping
Earth. Then, and then only, while the STAR FIRE flames
upon the WAY, may you rest with PEACE, and raise the veil
from her face.”
THE END
