{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__ballard___outline_of_an_i_am_study_group.pdf","mytitle":"Outline Of An I Am Study Group","mylang":"de"}
dtotlittg of an "3 A il muftn (group.
The A scended M aster Saint Germain requests that every m eeting be opened by issuing (standing)
each of these first decrees 3 times. V isualize and feel the activity.
1. G reat Cosm ic Light, com e forth and do Y our Perfect W ork N O W !
2. T h e Forces of L igh t m ove into action w ith Full Pow er and are Victorious N O W !
3. M igh ty Arcturus, com e forth in T h at L igh t as of a Thousand Suns and con­
sume all human selfishness and discord from the planet!
4. T h e Lim itless Legions of L igh t N O W m ove across the face of the earth and all
hum an darkness disappears!
5. Announcem ents.
6. B rief m om ent o f Silence w ith attention focussed on the “ M IG H T Y 1 A M P R E S E N C E .”
7. Invocation. Leader asks all to repeat silently and feel w hatever words are spoken so that
the entire Group sends up the words as one V oice. Exam ple Note #1.
8. Entire Group issues E n tity D ecree out loud. No. 58, “ I A M ” D ecree book.
9. Explanation o f the Chart. R ead description from Feb. 1936 and Feb. 1937 V oice.
10. D raw in g o f Electronic Tu be of L igh t Substance. A ll repeat out loud words of Note #2.
11. R elease o f V io let Flam e. A ll repeat out loud N ote #3.
12. Leader calls: “ In the N am e of the M igh ty I A M Presence, w e call unto Thee, A rchan gel
M ichael, A strea, and Orom asis, Prince of the Fiery Elem ent! L ead Y our M igh ty Legions
o f A n gels o f the Blue L ightn ing of D ivin e L ove through the earth and its atm osphere to
cleanse and pu rify all that is not of the Pure Christ. W e thank T h ee Thou dost alw ays an­
swer our every call.” Entire Group silently repeats and feels all words spoken.
13. Songs. Entire Group repeats out loud N ote #4 before singing.
14. Group rem ains standing and repeats out loud, w ith arms uplifted, Note #5.
15. Silence o f 5 minutes, pouring out Praise and A doration to your ow n “ M igh ty I A M Pres­
ence.”
16. V isualize the w all o f steely W h ite L ig h t around North, South and Central A m erica w ith a
G reat G olden H eart o f D ivine L ove hovering over each one and sending out G reat R ays of
V iolet Flam e to pu rify everything.
17. Leader says: “ Saint G erm ain and Jesus h ave told us that it is in the Silence that the G reat
Pow er is generated, and the Spoken W ord is the release of that Power. So let us, w ith all
the earnestness at our com m and, send out the Decrees w hich our B eloved M asters have
suggested.” A ll issue, out loud, Decrees as noted in Notes #6, 7, 8, 9.
18. Charging the G as Belts. A ll join in together, as described in N ote #10.
19. Leader reads from U n veiled M ysteries, T h e M agic Presence, T h e “ I A M ” Discourses, other
books of the Saint G erm ain series, or the V o ice o f the “ I A M ” .
20. Group repeats out loud Notes # 11, 12 and 13. # 13 is repeated three times, w ith the attention
focussed in the heart area as a G olden L igh t ever expanding.
21. H ealing work. Leader, w ith entire Group silently repeating, calls to the “ M igh ty I A M
Presence” to release Its M igh ty H ealin g Currents to heal the body and illum ine the mind.
V isualize the individual being absorbed into and becom ing the Lum inous Presence of Jesus,
Saint Germ ain, or an y other A scen ded M aster.
22. Project your L ove and G ratitude to Mr. and Mrs. Ballard, D onald, Saint Germ ain, Jesus,
Nada, the M igh ty D ivine Director and the G reat H ost of A scen ded M asters. Then offer
It up to your “ Presence” from w hence It cam e. V isu alize your Love, as It leaves your
heart area, becom e a blazin g G olden R a y o f D ivine Love.
23. Group issues out loud Special Decrees w hich M r. and Mrs. B allard request in the “ I A M ”
Decree book and the V o ice of the “ 1 A M ” , especially the D ivine Director’s D ecree re war
in Europe, page 41, A p ril 1937 V o ice; and Decrees #32, 41, and 68, in D ecree book.
24. Benediction. Entire Group repeats silently words spoken b y Leader.
T h e entire Service is conducted in the most sacred w ay possible, exactly as if Saint Germ ain,
Jesus, N ada and the G reat D ivine Director were present in Their V isible, T an gible Bodies.
No questions are perm itted to be asked during the Service and no discussion. W ritten ques­
tions m ay be answered b y leader using the “ I A M ” books or the V oice of the “ I A M ” , so
that no personality enters into it in any w a y whatever. Group should disperse as quietly as
possible praising and glorifying the “Mighty I AM Presence”, and holding the Power that
has been drawn for their blessing.
NOTES INVOCATION
#1. Thou Infinite, Mighty, All-powerful, Active Presence— G od! Creator of all that is ! Al­
ways Majestic in Thy Conquering Presence! We ever grow in deeper praise, thanks and grati­
tude to Thee for Thy Life, Light, Love and Intelligent Power manifest everywhere in the Uni­
verse !
We give Power only to Thee. We forever withdraw all power we have ever given to
outer things, and stand serene in Thy Majestic Presence, Love, Wisdom and Power. Enable us
to understand and feel Thy Radiant Power, always active in our Beings and worlds.
Thou Mighty, Supreme Ruler of the Universe! Whose Law is Justice, Whose Power is
Invincible! Protect America in Thy Great Blazing Loving Presence! Reveal to the authorities
of the United States of America any wrong activities! “I AM” the Mighty Channel of Justice,
claiming all now and for all time, that they serve only the “Light of God that never fails” and
America! No human thought shall enter in ! No human hand shall be raised against Her, for
She is sealed within the Love of the Great Ascended Host of Light forever!
Mighty God of the Universe! Thy Love, Light, Wisdom, Intelligence and Justice shall
fill every office in the land! All political graft shall be wiped out forever, and Thou shalt reign
through Thy Creation—through Thy Children in Perfect Justice to a ll!
Mighty Light of the Universe! Blaze forth Thy Rays into the hearts of mankind every­
where! Let there be Light! Light! Light! Let there be MORE LIGHT! THE PURE CHRIST
LIGHT! The GREAT COSMIC LIGHT! THE LIGHT OF GOD THAT NEVER FAILS! De­
scend into earth with Thy Legions of Light! Place the feet of mankind securely upon the
Pathway of Light! Lead them back once more into that Light and Perfection from whence
they came! And to that end, raise the Liquid Light in our bodies, and the bodies of all man­
kind ! Take It back into Thyself! Make us Pure and Wholly Perfect as Thou art! Make us
crystal-clear Temples of Pure Christ Light through which will ever blaze Thy Mighty, Golden,
Miracle-working Lightning of Divine Love to create Thy Perfection everywhere!
Mighty I AM Presence! All I am, or have, or ever hope to be, or have, is Thine! Come
forth! Control and manifest through my body, brain, mind and will! Pour forth Thy Full
Glory and Perfection on earth as Thou art in the Ascended Masters Octave of Light! We thank
Thee.
* « « « « * •
Beloved Master Saint Germain, Jesus, Nada, Mighty Divine Director and Great Ascend­
ed Host of Light! We greet Thee and bless Thee, in the Name of the “Mighty I AM Presence” !
We give our heart’s love in praise and thanks to Thee for releasing to the Children of earth this
glorious Understanding of the “Mighty I AM Presence”. We as one offer ourselves as a channel,
so humbly, so gratefully, so reverently, so earnestly, so joyously! Use us in every way you can in
the Service of the Light! We are ready! We are willing! We are loving, adoring obedience to
the Light! We ask You to focus into our meeting place Your Mightiest Rays of Light, that They
may be a constant Source of Radiation to protect, illumine, heal, bless, prosper and encourage
all who are here tonight. We thank Thee.
In the Name of the “Mighty I AM Presence”, we greet Thee and bless Thee, Great Cos­
mic Messengers, Cyclopea, Mighty Silent Watcher, Great Divine Director and wondrous Legion
of Light and Great Angelic Host! We give praise and thanks for the Mighty, Harmonious Ac­
complishment which YOU alone are bringing about! and with the desire to render our con­
scious cooperation, we call upon Thee, Thou Infinite, “Mighty I AM Presence!” Do Thou so
illumine the Understanding of the Children of Light everywhere that we may all assist without
limit!
In the Name of the “Mighty I AM Presence”, we greet Thee and bless Thee, Sanat Ku-
mara, the Lords of the Flame, the Tall Master from Venus and Thy Associates! We accept the
full Power of the Unfed Flame in Its Limitless, Cosmic Activity! Keep It eternally sustained
and the Only Acting Presence within mankind and the earth forever. We thank Thee it is done.
A r-r-^ p f m iir g r?»tLi.n<4» «*nrl p r a i « o 1_________ _________________________ _____ ___________________ ________ _____________________ _____
#2. “Mighty I AM Presence”, enfold me now in my Mighty, Magic, Electronic Tube of As­
cended Masters’ Light Substance! Make it so powerful that no human creation cam pass through!
See that it keeps me invisible, invincible and invulnerable to everything but Thy Almighty Per­
fection, andjnfinitely sensitive to Thee, Beloved “Mighty I AM Presence” (Visualize and feel it.)(
‘Mighty I AM Presence”, blaze up through me now your Mighty Consuming Violet Flame,
the purifying Power of Divine Love, in Its most powerful, dynamic activity! Consume cause
and effect, forever, of all human concepts, desires and feelings of my Being and world, and every
mistake for which my outer is responsible! Replace it with the Ascended Masters’ Electronic
Substance of Light, Love, Purity and Perfection, and hold Your Dominion within me forever!
(Visualize and feel it.)
Before siugllig songs or issuing decrees. “Mighty I AM Pr
~
$4r------ Before singing songs or issuing degrees^-1*Mighty I AM Prescucc**7seize our music and
decrees, qualify them with Saint Germain’s Ascended Master Consciousness and with the com­
bined Love of the Ascended Host, amplify them with the Power of a Thousand Suns, and blaze
them throughout the earth to produce Perfection everywhere.”
#5. “Mighty I AM Presence” and Great Divine Director! seize possession of America, the
Government and her people! Control her resources and direct her activities by Thy Almighty
Perfection! Envelop her in that Invincible W all of Light through which naught can pass but the
Perfection of the Ascended Masters! and keep it eternally sustained! (Visualize and feel it.)
#6. Saint Germain’s wish; “God, the “Mighty 1 AM Presence”, is governing with Invincible
Power EVEkVWHEREl in the hearts and minds of mankind.” P. 322.
#7. Jesus’ Decree: “In the Name of the “Mighty I AM Presence”, such freedom, health, pros­
perity and harmonious action shall come forth for America and the world now as have never
before been experienced on earth.” P. 355.
$8. Suggested by Jesus on Christmas 1935: “In the Name of the “Mighty I AM Presence”,
Uie books of the Saint Germain Series, and the periodical known as the Voice of the “I AM”,
SHALL BE the most sought-after books and periodical on the face of this Planet, to the uplift-
ment of God’s children everywhere!”
#9. Activity of the Blue Ray: As the words are spoken, visualize your own “Presence” pro­
jecting die Blue Lightning from Its hands into the condition or place you direct: “Mighty I AM
Presence”, project the Blue Lightning of the Ascended Masters' Divine Love into—
1. Europe! blast the cause and effect of all war and disturbing conditions from the face
of the earth forever:— and especially into
2. the Federal, State and Municipal Government of the United States of America, and
into
3. every activity that seeks to interfere with the success of the “I AM” work under the
Ascended Master Saint Germain, and into
4. the banking, commercial, communistic, and all activities that do not serve the “Light
of God that never fails”, and blast their cause and effect from the face of the earth
forever.”
Note: You can use this in any vicious activity. Never do it with a feeling of irritation. Never
draw the Blue Ray through your own body; always from your “Presence” to the condition direct,
as It always consumes the discord, and releases the pure electronic force to accomplish Its mighty
works. If the call is earnest enough, the Great Divine Director will step through.
#10. Charging the Gas Belts: Leader: “In the Name of the “Mighty I AM Presence” we will
offer ourselves as a channel through which the Ascended Masters may charge the Gas Belts and
the interior of the earth with the Golden Essence of Divine Love, which renders a transcendent
service to the earth and all mankind. Let us all stand, make the Sign of the Heart, Head and
Hand, in salutation to the Ascended Masters, raise our hands up to the “Presence”, and repeat
out loud together:
“In the Name, by the Power, through the Love, in the Authority, and unto the Glory of the
“Mighty I AM Presence”, we now offer ourselves as a channel to You, Blessed Master Saint
Germain, Jesus, Nada, Great Divine Director and Legions of Light! Blaze through us! Blaze
through u s! Blaze through us! Thy Mighty, Golden, Power of Divine Love and CHARGE the
energy in the gas belts below the earth’s surface with that Mighty Power!”
Note: On the word “CHARGE” bring the hands down to your sides with dynamic energy,
but be perfectly relaxed. Visualize and feel Great Cosmic Streams of Golden Light Sub­
stance blazing down through you from Great Beings above you, which actually takes place,
streaming like an avalanche through your body, hands and feet, hooding the gas belts be-
low the earth’s surface. Continue by saying:
“In the Name of the “Mighty I AM Presence”, 1 command this Golden Light Substance to blaze
V
into the Heart of the earth, to flood instantly the entire interior of the earth and all Beings within
it, and to be eternally sustained until this whole Planet becomes a Great Golden Sun of Light/’
Note: Hold this picture clearly for brief period until you visualize the entire earth become
a Great Golden Sun. Feel the Power surging through you. An intense activity takes place.
Continue by now raising your hands to the Presence and the Ascended Masters once more,
and repeat out loud:
“Bring into manifestation the Perfection ordained for this Planet under the Great God Plan of
the Ascended Masters. See that every individual upon this Planet serves the Light, and gives all
credit and acknowledgment to the “Mighty 1 AM Presence” and the Ascended Hosts of Light.
We thank Thee, and we bless Thee, “Mighty 1 AM Presence”, and Great Ascended Hosts of
Light, in the Name of the “Mighty I AM Presence!”
Conclude by issuing Decree #22, from Decree Book.
#11. “Mighty 1 AM Presence”, Great Host of Ascended Masters, Mighty Legionof Light, Great
Angelic Host, and Great Cosmic Beings! Come forth in Your Infinite Power! Charge my
Being and world, Saint Germain’s Activity of the “I AM”, America and all who serve the Light
throughout the world with Thy Invincible Protection, eternally sustained.”
#12. “Mighty I AM Presence”, Come forth inYour Infinite Ascended Master Power! Charge
my mind, Being, world and activity, and that of all the Children of Light everywhere, with the
Great Divine Director’s Ascended Master Consciousness, Instantaneous Activity and Fulfillment,
that we may have the Full Benefit of His Consciousness made physically manifest now, eternal­
ly sustained.”
You must make the call. You cannot receive Limitless Assistance unless you do. We have
been told repeatedly that for any activity to be released into the physical octave, the call must
come from the physical octave. It cannot come into our Beings and worlds in any other way!
Saint Germain says: “Prayer is not intensive enough to control the Forces that rock a
Planet. You must call to the “Mighty I AM Presence” and the Ascended Masters for They are
the Only Ones who can. Unless you let go everything else and be 100% for the “I AM”, (as
Jesus suggests in His 1935 Christmas Day Discourse), you cannot be intensive enough in your
call to release the Power of Protection. YOU MUST MAKE YOUR MAXIMUM EFFORT NOW!
Your Light is going to be used to the limit from now on! You MUST see that the Greatest Light
expands in the shortest time!
#13. “Mighty I AM Presence”, expand Thy Light in every cell of my body until Its Radiance
blazes through my flesh, eternally sustained.” (Visualize and feel it.)
The Law of this work is Loving, Humble Co-operation. People only get free by giving!
The Ascended Masters give everything, and so They have everything! Intense application is
asked by Saint Germain of all the students! This is the Eleventh Hour request! THE NECES­
SITY IS VERY GREAT!! I
DECREE FOR THE ASCENSION
#14. “Mighty I AM Presence”, take complete command of my mind and body now! Prepare
me for what YOU would have me do. I am ready and I am willing, and see that I make my As­
cension in this embodiment!
I AM THE RESURRECTION AND THE LIFE! I AM THE ASCENSION IN THE LIGHT!
iBeloved Master Saint Germain, Jesus, Nada and Great Divine Director, give me Your Limitless
Assistance to the attainment of my Ascension in this embodiment. I shall endeavor to live ac­
cordingly. SO HELP ME, “MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE.” With all tKTLove of my Heart, I
thank Thee!
“In the Name of the “Mighty I AM Presence”, I hereby pledge and decree that I shall never
again recognize or enter into criticism, condemnation, judgment or discussion of the deeds or
words of any Group Leader or student of the “I AM”, or any other individual or any thing;
that where improvement seems desirable I shall immediately call the “Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” into action to produce PERFECTION and hold ITS DOMINION forever, and I shall
endeavor to so live that the Ascended Masters CAN work through me at any moment! SO
HELP ME, “MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE”.
Note: Write out this Ascension Decree in ink and sign your name. Then consume it in the
Flame by burning it up 24 hours after signing.
O C T .1937. PR O PER TY O F SA IN T G ERM AIN P R E S S . C H IC A G O . IL L .
