{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__ballard___ascended_master_light.pdf","mytitle":"Ascended Master Light","mylang":"de"}
\ ^ \ (
Ja d U r d J U ecu w.
£
COPYRIGHT 19 38 BY
SAINT GERMAIN PRESS
All rights reserved,
including copy of frontispiece,
color plates, foreign translations,
radio broadcasts and
all publications.
*
118618
pwvted in u. s. a
THE SAINT GERMAIN SERIES
Other Books by the Same Authors
Unveiled My st er ies..................................................................Volume I
T he Magic Pr e s e n c e ............................................................Volume II
T he “I AM” Discourses............................................................Volume III
T he “I AM” Adorations, Affirmations and Decrees . . Volume V
Ascended Master Disco u rses........................ Vm .tux- vt
D E D I C A T I O N
This series of books is dedicated in deepest Eternal
Love and Gratitude to our Beloved Ascended
Masters, Saint Germain, Jesus, Nada, the Great Di­
vine Director, the Great White Brotherhood, the
Brotherhood of the Royal Teton, the Brotherhood
of Mount Shasta, the Great Ascended Masters from
Venus, The Great Cosmic Beings, the Great Cosmic
Light and those other Ascended Alasters whose loving
Help has been direct and without limit.
Il
T R I B U T E
W
E, who are privileged to carry this As­
cended Master Light to the world, offer
all we are and have or ever hope to be or
have, in the Service of the Ascended and Cosmic
Masters; Whom we have been so blest as to know
and love.
We send forth the intense call: “ That every human
being on earth sees, knows and associates with Them
as we do, in Their visible, tangible, living, breathing
Ascended Master Bodies.”
To know Them is to Love Them. T o associate
with Them is to serve Them. T o see Them is to
obey Them; for in Their Blessed Presence, all desire
on earth dissolves into the over-whelming impulse to
BE all that They are.
To the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” and to the
Great Host of Ascended and Cosmic Masters, be­
longs all credit, all glory, all power in the success of
this Mighty Ascended Master Instruction of the
“ I AM .”
To our Beloved Ascended Master, Saint Germain,
we owe eternal limitless gratitude; for bringing this
Victory of the Light to the humanity of earth in this
hour of world crisis. May every human being in the
world know who He is; what mankind owes to His
vn
viii TR IB U TE
Great Loving Heart; give obedience to the Great
Law of Life; and become His same great Freedom
and Perfection.
He is the Great Ascended Master Who is in charge
of the Perfection which must come forth in America.
Our Love and gratitude are boundless to Him, to
Jesus, Nada, the Great Divine Director, to Sanat
Kumara, to the Goddess of Liberty and to Mighty
Victory; as well as to all the Other Ascended Masters
who have worked for the Freedom of all mankind so
long.
This Mighty “ I AM” Instruction, which is given
for the Freedom and Protection of America and the
world, is brought forth in the interest of the public
good. It is the True Education of Life and the Spirit­
ual Culture of the people for the whole world in the
future. It is the Law of Life! It is the Gift of Love!
It is the Power of Light! It is the Victory of Right!
Accept It Oh, beloved people! for the Light now
claims Its own and takes Its Dominion throughout
the earth forever1
G odfre R a y K ing
L otus R a y K ing
■ f f ir w
F O R E W O R D
HIS book is given to the “ I A M ” Students and
all mankind at the Command of the Great
Cosmic Beings, Who dictated the Discourses
contained within it.
The Ascended Masters Who dictated, with one ex­
ception, are all Great Cosmic Beings of such Majesty
and Power as the human mind can scarcely compre­
hend.
The Power They wield is without limit and this
very hour, They are standing guard over America
and all Constructive Activities in the world; ready
to release whatever Power of Their Light Rays is
required; to keep war out of America and give Pro­
tection to those who sincerely seek and serve the
Light.
However, no matter how much these Great Cosmic
Beings wish to protect mankind, the Great Law of
Life, Light and Energy does not permit Them to re­
lease the intensity of the Cosmic Light needed to do
this, unless the people themselves awaken; reach up
to the Light; and make the call to the ‘‘Mighty I AM
Presence” for the Freedom of A L L on earth.
These Great Cosmic Beings of Light are the Guard­
ians of the future of America; and are doing every­
thing that the Great Law of Life permits, to hold our
IX
X FOREWORD
Beloved Land free from the viciousness and insanity
of war in the rest of the world.
Powerful Radiation of these Great Cosmic Masters;
Who love humanity more than it loves itself.
Each Discourse is powerfully charged with the
Life, Light and Love of the particular Cosmic Master
Whose Dictation it is. Every Word in every Discourse
is a “Crystal Cup” which is filled with and carries the
Life, the Light, the Love, the Energy, the Power, the
Healing, the Courage, the Strength and the Supply of
every good thing from the Octave of Life of the As­
cended Master Who dictated it.
Each Discourse carries a distinctly different Radia­
tion and Feeling to the student and reader; and if all
who hear or read them will accept and expand the
Blessing and Perfection with which they are charged;
Mighty Ascended Master Miracles and Victories of
Perfection will flood forth without limit to bless all.
lie who serves the Light of Life is served by the
Light! and the Light always knows, protects, supplies
and cares for Its Own! ]
This book is the Ascfended Master Light! to Amer­
ica, mankind and the world! Accept It, beloved “ I
AM” Students and readers and enjoy the Blessings
and Perfection which It brings!
Be! an Ambassador of Light from the Ascended
Every constructive person, place, condition and
thing in America and on earth is held within the
FOREW ORD xi
and Cosmic Masters’ Octave of Life, in this hour of
the world’s greatest need; that all mankind may once
again come into Its Home in the Light from which
all came forth.
G odfré R a y K ing
L otus R a y K ing
T H E G R E A T G R E A T S I L E N C E
By C h a n er a
EPISODE I
I stand in the Great Great Silence,
The Heart of the Central Sun,
Absorbed in the Light of My Pres’nce,
At last with Its Love all ONE.
I feel such a Great Calm Power,
A Stillness no words can tell,
A Peace from the Heart of Cre’tion
And I know that all is well!
I pray for earth’s blessed children
And Freedom I ask for all,
I pour forth the Love of My Pres’nce
To answer their every call.
I rest in this Great Light Temple
In Life’s true Silence Supreme,
“ I A M ” ! Its Almighty Splendor
The fulness of Love’s Own Stream.
Light’s Presence so all-pervading
O’erwhelms me with Love’s Delight,
The Pow’r and Peace of Its Being
Are mine in this far far Height.
X l ll
xiv THE GREAT GREAT SILENCE
Oh, great is my joy this moment,
Triumphant at last I stand!
At ONE with My Source all silent—
Its Glory no one may ban.
Oh, feel with me this Great Power
Of Light from the Heart of All!
The Throne-room of each one’s Being
Love’s Answer to each heart-call.
Here! Here! in the Great Calm Silence,
Forever My Presence bright
Parts Its Own Curtain of Glory
And “ I AM” ! Its Dazzling Light!
I stand in the Great Great Silence,
Hold Thy Hand, Oh God of Light!
Thyself for ever abiding,
Enfolds me with Thine Own Might.
Great Source of this Mighty Silence,
The Cause of the Great Great Blue!
Pour through me to all earth’s children
Thy Love—
make them feel It too!
TH E G REA T G R EA T SILENCE xv
I stand in the Great Great Silence
Alone and feel all Its Might,
I know at last through My Presence,
“ I A M ” ! the Master of Light!
The Peace of this Great Great Silence
Spreads o’er me Its Magic Spell
Absorbed in Its pure deep Stillness
Life’s Story I hear It tell.
“ I A M ” ! sings the Great Great Silence
All Beings of Light above!
“ I A M ” ! breathes each breath within me—
The Voice and Power of Love.
Come now! with me on this journey,
In Vict’ry Supreme and true;
Abide in the Great Great Silence
And feel the “ I AM ” come thru.
“ I AM ” ! in the Great Great Silence!
‘‘I AM ” ! Its Power and Peace!
‘‘I AM ” ! Its Might and Its Glory!
“ I AM ” ! and all else shall cease!
xvi THE GREAT GREAT SILENCE
EPISODE II
I stand in the Great Great Silence
Alone in Its Stillness bright,
Filled with Its Peace and Its Power
In the Arms of Cosmic Light.
Oh, feel with me this Great Glory!
See Its Perfection for all!
From this Sun’s own Heart and Silence,
To earth in Love comes my call.
Oh, come to me, my beloved!
Blessed ones, I love so dear;
Live in Light’s Palace of Glory,
Enjoy the Great Beauty here!
The Heart of this Great Great Silence,
Is Love’s true Temple of Light,
So come! my worshiping brave ones,
Be clothed with Vict’ry and Might!
Oh, feel with me this Great Silence!
Live in It each hour, each day;
Call now, your own “ I AM Presence”
To bring you on Love’s own Ray.
TH E G R EA T G R EA T SILENCE xvii
Come! fly! to me, precious children,
On wings of the summer morn;
Or come like a strong swift arrow—
On Love’s Great Lightning be borne!
I call! do you hear, beloved?
Will you come to this Great Height?
Oh! Precious Ones of the Presence,
It is Home—the “ I A M ” Its Light!
Softly a call in this Silence
Sounds in my Dwelling above;
My precious ones on earth’s planet
Have heard and answered my Love.
I return! my heart o’erflowing!
In rapture, I bring Thy Light
T o hold A LL! close to their Presence—
“ I A M ”—Its Glory and Might.
They, too, then stand in the Silence
Each moment, each blessed day;
Great is Its Glory and Freedom!
True is Its Vict’ry and Way!
xviii THE GREAT. GREAT SIEEiSiCE
The Voice of the “ I AM Presence”
Is Love’s own Glory and Height;
Dwell in Its “Temple of Silence ”!
Clothed now in Garments of Light!
Oh stand! in the Great Great Silence,
In Its Own Pure Dazzling Light!
Alone in the Heart of your Pres’nce
And feel Its Power and Might.
Oh, stand! in this Great Great Silence
And feel It all through and through;
Rest in Its Great Gleaming Whiteness
Know Life’s full Blessings come true!
The Love in this Great Great Silence
Is so deep no words can tell;
I feel Its full True Power,
Its Joy sings clear as a bell.
Oh, Great is my Peace in this hour,
So deep that It thrills me too!
I live in the Heart of My Presence,
And send Its Light Rays to you.
TH E G REA T G R EA T SILENCE xix
EPISODE III
“ I A M ” in the Great Great Silence,
In the Heart of Life—the Sun!
“ I A M ” sealed in Love Eternal,
My Vict’ry forever won.
“ I A M ” in the Great Great Silence,
Full blazing Glory and Light;
“ I AM ” all Its Magic Splendor,
I know all Its Pow’r—Its Might!
“ I A M ” in the Great Great Silence
Its Pres’nce forever more!
‘‘I A M ” in Its Heart so dazzling,
Its own Great Light Rays, I pour.
“ I A M ” in the Great Great Silence
Held close in Its Unfed Flame;
“ I AM ” all Its Wisdom and Pow’r,
From Its Sun of Light all came.
“ I AM ” in the Great Great Silence
And seal’d so close in Its Heart—
“ I A M ” the Great Cosmic Flame Breath
Of Its Fire, “ I A M ” a part.
XX THE GREAT G REAT SILENCE
“ I AM” in the Great Great Silence
In Light I ever abide;
“ I AM” all Its Peace Eternal,
No matter whate’er betide.
“ I AM” in the Great Great Silence
In all Its Power I move;
“ I AM” Its Mighty Dominion
And know just the Pres’nce of Love.
“ I AM” in the Great Great Silence
And Its Vict’ry over all,
‘‘I AM” ascended! triumphant!
To each one in Love, I call.
“ I AM” in the Great Great Silence,
Wrapped in my Mantle of Light,
The Unfed Flame now within me
Sends forth Its Ray-Its full Might.
“ I AM” in this Great Great Silence
Its Love holds each world in space,
And Light with Its Glory around me
Speeds me with Infinite Grace.
TH E G REA T G R EA T SILEN CE xxi
I sing in this Great Great Silence
Life’s song with Its Joy to thee;
Light in the echoing stillness,
Reveals a new melody.
On, on in Its ceaseless Splendor
Flows Light from the Central Sun,
Flooding forth to all creation
Its Freedom to bless each one.
Straight at the Altar of Being!
I stand in my own Love’s Light,
Face to face with my “ I AM Pres’nce”
Its Fulness! Its Glory! Its Might!
“ I A M ” then this Great Great Silence!
“ I A M ” Its Pres’nce all free!
“ I A M ” the Life in each Being!
“ I AM ” Master! Love! Light! Thee!
C O N T E N T S
DISCOURSES PAGE
Saint Germain’s . . . • • May 9, 1937 1
Jesus’ ................................. . January 3, 1937 14
Lady Master Nada’s . .March 1, 1937 23
Great Divine Director’s . . March 25, 1938 36
Sanat Kumara’s . . . . . . July 11, 1937 58
Cyclopea’s ...................... .October 10, 1937 83
The Silent Watcher’s . .October 12, 1937 110
Mighty Astrea’s . . . . November 1, 1937 i 37
The Lord Maitreya’s . . October 8, 1937 !59
The Maha Chohan’s . . .October 10, 1937 178
Lanto’s ........................... . August 30, 1937 200
Lady Master Leto’s . .January 17, 1937 217
Chananda’s ...................... 240
Pelleur’s ............................ .October 13, 1937 256
The God Tabor’s . . . . .J u n e 27, 1937 274
The God Himalaya’s . . .June 27, 1937 293
Kuthumi’s ...................... December 19, 1937 3l6
Morya E l’s ...................... . . May 15, 1938 333
Hilarion’s ...................... December 17, 1937 357
Serapis Bey’s ...................... . January 23, 1938 374
The Great Tenor’s . . . . January 2, 1938 400
Mary, The Mother of Jesus . . June 30, 1937 419
The Queen of Light . . February 16,1938 441
The Goddess of Liberty’s . October 13, 1937 462
David Lloyd’s . . . . 478
Mighty Victory’s . . . . . April 17, 1938 525
A S C E N D E D M A S T E R
L I G H T
By T h e G r e a t C osm ic B eings
" * ■
S A I N T G E R M A I N ’ S D I S C O U R S E
PHILADELPHIA, PA.
MAY Q, 1937
B
ELOVED students of Philadelphia, I greet you
one and all. In the fulness of the Love of My
Heart, I enfold you in the Light Which is
Mine, Which is yours, and Which belongs to all the
world, in the fulness of Its active Presence and Power.
Mothers of America and the world, I greet you in
the full Power of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” for
the service which you have rendered America and
the world. I greet you in the Glory which shall yet
be yours, in the True Transcendent Activity of
birth, which is to find its expression on earth as once
before! The Original Perfect Activity of birth is
free from all pain and distress. It glorifies every one
in the fulness of quick and Perfect action. Infancy
will be unknown and the Glory of God, the “ Mighty
I AM Presence” will find Its full Expression at all
times.
2 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
There will be no lapse of time for certain physical
requirements, which is the condition of physical em­
bodiment today. We give praise and thanks that once
again the earth is to know the Perfect Activity of em­
bodiment and come back into it permanently. Long
ages ago, mankind knew the Divine Way of birth! It
was so long ago, that but for those Records in the
Royal Teton, mankind could not believe that it had
ever existed. That proof, that physical proof, stands
in the Royal Teton today! There are the Records of
all the Great Civilizations which have existed upon
this earth. One day all mankind shall know the
Truth which is there; for all the foolishness, the
doubts and fears of mankind will be forever erased
from their consciousness.
The consciousness enveloping the earth which has
been charged with discord shall become cleansed and
purified! No longer shall it weigh upon mankind and
cause a pressure greater than that of the atmosphere
of earth. It is rapidly being purified and the pressure
is being removed from mankind. Many feel it and
hundreds of thousands more will still feel its release,
ere two years have passed over your heads.
Tonight, in Glory, Adoration and Blessing to the
motherhood of mankind, We call for the complete
release of all motherhood of earth, into the full Per­
fection of the Ascended Master Activity and the
Great Cosmic Light; to produce Its Perfection every-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 3
where; to bless and hold every mother on the face
of the earth within Its Mighty Radiance, until Its
full Perfection comes forth.
We accept this full glorified Activity that all may
feel Its Mighty Presence within them; and in the
Glory of this Great Cosmic Light all shall be made
Perfect! All shall enter in and be the fulfilling of the
Law!
In the full Understanding of your Presence, re­
member: only through your attention is everything
made possible for you. Without your attention upon
a given thing, you cannot know its activity. Thus,
your attention becomes the first focal point for the
Power of your Presence to come through and fulfill
every requirement. Through it, must come all that
your heart craves, all that you wish to have made
manifest. Remember! where your attention rests,
there flows your Life.
I want to say to you, that We are wholly indifferent
to the human opinions of mankind, which say that
in these Dictations, you will find Us repeating each
other. We are not concerned with the intellectual
imagination of mankind! We are voicing Our Words
which are “ Cups” that carry Freedom and Perfec­
tion! We are not concerned with the foolish criticism
of mankind whose intellect says, that certain expres­
sions should be used! We are not concerned in the
slightest! We give forth that which the people require
2 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
There will be no lapse of time for certain physical
requirements, which is the condition of physical em­
bodiment today. We give praise and thanks that once
again the earth is to know the Perfect Activity of em­
bodiment and come back into it permanently. Long
ages ago, mankind knew the Divine Way of birth! It
was so long ago, that but for those Records in the
Royal Teton, mankind could not believe that it had
ever existed. That proof, that physical proof, stands
in the Royal Teton today! There are the Records of
all the Great Civilizations which have existed upon
this earth. One day all mankind shall know the
Truth which is there; for all the foolishness, the
doubts and fears of mankind will be forever erased
from their consciousness.
The consciousness enveloping the earth which has
been charged with discord shall become cleansed and
purified! No longer shall it weigh upon mankind and
cause a pressure greater than that of the atmosphere
of earth. It is rapidly being purified and the pressure
is being removed from mankind. Many feel it and
hundreds of thousands more will still feel its release,
ere two years have passed over your heads.
Tonight, in Glory, Adoration and Blessing to the
motherhood of mankind, We call for the complete
release of all motherhood of earth, into the full Per­
fection of the Ascended Master Activity and the
Great Cosmic Light; to produce Its Perfection every-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 3
where; to bless and hold every mother on the face
of the earth within Its Mighty Radiance, until Its
full Perfection comes forth.
We accept this full glorified Activity that all may
feel Its Mighty Presence within them; and in the
Glory of this Great Cosmic Light all shall be made
Perfect! All shall enter in and be the fulfdling of the
Law!
In the full Understanding of your Presence, re­
member: only through your attention is everything
made possible for you. Without your attention upon
a given thing, you cannot know its activity. Thus,
your attention becomes the first focal point for the
Power of your Presence to come through and fulfill
every requirement. Through it, must come all that
your heart craves, all that you wish to have made
manifest. Remember! where your attention rests,
there flows your Life.
I want to say to you, that We are wholly indifferent
to the human opinions of mankind, which say that
in these Dictations, you will find Us repeating each
other. We are not concerned with the intellectual
imagination of mankind! We are voicing Our Words
which are “ Cups” that carry Freedom and Perfec­
tion! We are not concerned with the foolish criticism
of mankind whose intellect says, that certain expres­
sions should be used! We are not concerned in the
slightest! We give forth that which the people require
4 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
and let the human criticism cease! If We followed the
human opinions of mankind, We would be in the
same conditions they are experiencing. Therefore,
We no longer accept human opinions! We stand forth
giving the Law of Life absolutely unadulterated by
human suggestions! If you find that in the various
Dictations We have repeated each other, then know
it is for your blessing and benefit.
You have but certain words in your vocabulary!
If one of mankind or twenty repeated those same
words, is it plagiarizing? I want you to know in This
Work, dear hearts, We are not in the slightest con­
cerned about any human opinion. We give forth This
Law! It is doing Its Work! and We are not concerned
with human conceit.
I want you to know, dear hearts, in the Mighty
Expansion of the Light, which This Understanding
has brought forth, it is just the beginning of Its
Mighty Perfect Work. The blessed ones have been
raised up throughout the United States to give forth
these Mighty Decrees; and this Cosmic Light is
cleansing and purifying the feeling and mental world
of mankind. It will continue, until the Presence can
do the things It wishes to do and which need to be
done, for individuals, for the nation and the world.
You today are the product of your thought and feel­
ing. In refusing acceptance to appearances which are
less than Perfection, say to them instantly: “ You
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 5
have no Power” ! Then, you stop the activity of those
appearances. You stop the human creation which
has accumulated up to this time; and you cause it to
cease action in your world in the future.
Blessed ones, I tell you the time is at hand when
you must assert yourselves for the Perfection you wish
to call forth! Then you will receive it! This is why I
speak to you in this positive manner, to break through
and shatter all the human creation about you; until
you can realize the full Power of God, the “ Mighty I
AM Presence.” It alone can produce Perfection for
you and your world, glorifying you with Its Perfec­
tion forever sustained.
I rejoice with you and thank each one in deepest
gratitude, for the beautiful and wonderful work you
are doing in preparation for the class. I assure you, it
will be one you will never forget as long as you live,
ascended or unascended. Now remember, that is My
Promise! You shall be electrified and glorified as you
never have been before in your lives. It shall remain
active with you forever! Remember it! Every earnest
call, which is building up this Mighty Momentum, to
call forth the Glory and Perfection of the “ Mighty I
AM Presence” into your world, shall go forth! No
human creation can prevent it! and all human gossip
shall cease forever from This Work and all mankind!
Remember, upon that depends your Freedom and
I plead with you: let no Student of the “ I A M ” any-
6 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
where in America, continue any longer to allow him­
self to express one thought, feeling or word of con­
demnation or criticism against his fellow student, or
his Group Leader. Every one must be free and no one
shall judge another. The only Judge in this Universe
is your own Higher Mental Body. Feel this!
Dear ones, go forth doing all you can, each one
of you! Let each Group Leader be free to do what he
can do and bless each one. Then, you will have your
group flooded with people who come to you for help,
assistance and enlightenment. Dear hearts, there is
no Group Leader in the world who can hold people
about him with the feeling of criticism and condem­
nation in his heart. Groups under such individuals
will disappear and those who pour out Love and
Kindness cannot find room to take care of those who
come. It is the Law of Life, oh precious ones.
We call to the attention of every one, the things
you require. As long as you let human feelings govern
and give voice to your unkind feelings, you will be
deprived of your heart’s desire. It is the Law of Life,
precious ones! It is no one’s desire; but you are the
cause in your world; and if you send forth discordant
activities and feeling, then you must reap just that!
Nothing can prevent it but yourself!
I say to you tonight in such great Love: wipe out
in one sweep every discordant feeling within your
world—
your feeling world—then say: “ ‘Mighty I AM
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 7
Presence,’ take out of me everything less than your
Perfection; sweep through my world and activity;
reach out Your Hand and through me, bless all I
contact with such an Out-pouring of Thy Light and
Love; that no longer is there anything left but just
your Mighty Perfection in action.” All can have and
do this if they will.
Each one can be blessed and be such a blessing to
each other, that the whole world will turn and look in
gratitude to you; but as long as discord reigns within
your feeling world, all good is repelled. Rejoice al­
ways when anyone can release a greater power of Love
than you can. Let that be an example for you to re­
lease more Love. Then you, too, will stand with equal
power in the Great Out-pouring of Love; and call all
mankind to you for their release and Ascension.
Your privilege today, Oh beloved ones, is the great­
est ever known to mankind. It is a privilege to pour
out Love in the present crisis of mankind. The im­
portant thing is not just your individual require­
ment. Think of the need of America and the world.
Unless mankind can have the protection which is
needed their hope is gone.
Will you not bear with Me just a few moments.
Think of it, beloved ones! I have worked for America
and you for two hundred years and more! I could
say to you I have worked for you for seventy thousand
years! Will you not join Me now, in such harmony
8 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
within your feeling to your fellow-man and all things;
that the Power of your Presence, to whom I have
called your attention, can bring such release unto
you and your world, that every one of mankind will
be blessed forever by it? I have had the Patience to go
on, and on, and on. Can you not have a little patience,
in calling your “ Mighty I AM Presence” to give you
harmony in your feelings; and to take out every dis­
cordant thing, so you may assist now in this final crisis
of mankind?
We could have gone on in the Realm of the As­
cended Masters and left you to fight your battles
alone! but We did not! The beloved Messengers here,
when they came back from Honolulu could have said
Good-bye to you and have gone on, but they did not!
Their Love was great enough to go on, and on, facing
and conquering the viciousness which has been pro­
jected at them. They know that it has no power! and it
does not have! Precious ones, they should be an ex­
ample to you. They have fought battles and stood
against viciousness which has wrecked nations I tell
you! and they have remained untouched by it! The
Work has remained untouched! and any human who
expresses viciousness and falsehood concerning This
Work is half insane.
I say to you, beloved ones, as long as you listen
to falsehood and gossip you will be in limitations. Un­
less you free yourselves and your worlds from it, you
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 9
will not know what Freedom, Perfection and happi­
ness is. In the experience of mankind today, only a
few of the “ I AM Students yet know what Real Happi­
ness is. Only as you remove from your world all dis­
cord; only as you hold yourself in obedience to the
Great Light, will you come to the point where you
will know what Real Happiness is. In that Happi­
ness, you no longer accept any appearance, you have
just the Perfection of the Presence.
Today, the opportunity of the centuries is open to
you; to glorify yourself in the Perfection of the Life
which beats your heart. You cannot be disconnected
from It and live. Therefore, your Life is your Light!
If you will thank and praise the Life which beats your
heart, then you will have more of Its Power and Ac­
tivity glorifying you. Your Life is God, the “ Mighty I
AM Presence,” the Governor of the Universe. If you
give It the opportunity, It will bless you as nothing
else in the world can. How can It bless you? Only
through continued harmony in your feeling.
Therefore, beloved ones, arise in the Power, the
Activity, the Authority of your “ I AM Presence” !
Take command and say to all appearances: “ You have
no Power! Stay out of my world! My world is the
world of the ‘Mighty I AM .’ It is governed by and
held obedient to my Presence! No human thing can
touch it! Henceforth, I stand free! forever free from
all human qualities! ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ Your
IO ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
Authority is in action in my world! I claim Your Per­
fection as the only Governing Presence in my mind,
my body and in my feeling world. Hold it purified,
beautified and free from every discord; that Your
Glory may pour forth and bless all mankind with
whom I come in contact.”
This is the Glory of mankind! You are the Light of
the world! Do you know that, precious ones? Do you
know that you, who have This Understanding and
really in your hearts accept your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” are the Light of the World? Think of it! you,
whom I have known so many times. Many of you here
in Philadelphia especially, were embodied in those
earlier days of America and who knew Washington.
You have come again and this time to enter into your
Freedom, if you will.
T ry to fully realize, that harmony maintained in
your feeling is the Open Door to your “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” Harmony is the Perfection through which
you will gain your Freedom. It will pour forth in,
through and out into your world, to bless everyone
who touches the hem of your garment. Do you know
the hem of your garment is the Radiance of your
world; and if It be of the "Mighty I AM Presence,”
then all who touch the hem of that garment are
healed, blessed and enlightened.
Will you not become such a Pillar of Light from
your own “ Mighty I AM Presence,” that all who
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 11
touch your garments may be healed? What enabled
the touch of Jesus’ Garments to heal? Because that
Garment was the Radiance of His Being. The Radi­
ance from you is your Eternal Garment whose
Radiance or touch can heal, bless and enlighten! will
you not, Oh precious ones, so still yourselves, so call
your “ Mighty I AM Presence” into action, that Its
Radiance becomes a healing, blessing, prospering ac­
tivity everywhere you move?
In the stillness of this Radiance which is brought
forth for your blessing, for just a moment accept into
your feeling world Its Mighty Active Presence; so
filling you with Its Peace, Joy and the electrifying Ac­
tivity from your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” that you
feel Its Glowing Mastery enfold you now and for­
ever sustained. Then, no longer can a single thing of
human creation ever cause you to feel its touch. May
this Radiance be so bright, that the moment discord
touches It, it is consumed at once.
Think for a moment, precious ones! when the
Great Radiance of an Ascended Being moves forth
into a room or about you, all unlike It just dissolves
and disappears. Now, you may become that same Pil­
lar of Light! Even though yet unascended, still you
can be a Pillar of Light, whose Radiance from your
“ Mighty I AM Presence”—the Authority of the Uni­
verse, can pour forth with such volume; that all
human activity which touches you or your world is
i2 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
silenced! and the Power from the Presence flows forth
to bless, heal and prosper.
Today your privilege is very great. The honor of
the Ascended Host is placed in your hands! Let no “ I
AM ” Student do anything that the Ascended Master
would not do! Will you accept your responsibility, try
to feel, live and be Their Light? When you start to do
something, stop for a moment and think—would the
Ascended Master do that? Remind yourself, that the
Honor of your ‘‘Mighty I AM Presence” and the
Ascended Masters is yours to maintain. It will make
everything you contact so much easier, if you will do
this.
If you suddenly find yourself confronted with
something and humanly you do not see your way out,
just be still! say to your human intellect: “ Be calm
now! Be silent! ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ (Now
notice! where your attention is, there you are!) You
take command of me and my world! Produce Your
Perfection and hold Your Dominion” ! If it be a
vicious condition say: “ Mighty I AM Presence! sweep
into this condition! Turn it upside down and bring a
Miracle of Your Perfection out of it” ! and the Pres­
ence will do it!
I say to you, beloved ones, there is no longer any
excuse for mankind not having the Perfection of the
Presence; because if they will harmonize their feel­
ings; refuse to accept human appearances; and then
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T *3
call the Presence to take command of them and their
worlds; they will find Its Glory filling their worlds
and nothing else shall have power to touch them.
Tonight, We thank you for this opportunity of
again reminding you of these Principles of Life which
are eternal—which none may sidestep. Do not think
anyone is an exception to these rules. The Law of
Life is eternal for all mankind and there are no ex­
cuses today. As you understand this and feel the Glory
which it is, so shall you be blessed forever.
In the fulness and Power of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” and the Ascended Host, I enfold you in
the Glory of Its Light, the Light of God, the “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” Which beats your very heart; and
holds you so close in Its Mighty Radiance, that no
longer can you feel or express anything but the Glory
and Perfection of your “ Mighty I AM Presence” now
and forever sustained! I thank you.
J E S U S ’ D I S C O U R S E
SHRINE CLASS—LOS ANGELES
JANUARY 3, 1937
T
ODAY Oh beloved Children of the Light I
feel as though talking to old friends; for there
are those of you who were with Me during
the period of My Ministry, seemingly so long ago.
Yet in the Great Cosmic Light, the human cogni­
zance of time does not exist. This is why, Oh beloved
ones, when you enter into the Radiance of the As­
cended Beings and the Great Cosmic Light, as many
of you have experienced, you lose the sense—the
human sense of time. Sometimes, an hour or two
hours seems only a few minutes. It is in some slight
degree giving you evidence of that which you will
one day experience in your Freedom of the Ascen­
sion. It has been one of the Greatest Joys of My entire
Experience, to find so great a number of the students
applying and experiencing in a practical, natural
manner in such simplicity, that which has been con­
sidered so transcendent. Saint Germain has brought
This Work forward in the fulness of the Explanation,
which the Great Cosmic Law permits. In all the Uni­
verse there is only the action of Divine Law, which
is the “ Mighty I AM Presence’’ in action.
14
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 15
No human being in all the world exists unto him­
self or herself. All is a Great Consciousness and all
are a part of that Great Consciousness in action,
whether it be in your physical world or whether it be
in the Great Octaves higher. All is Law and order,
acting under a definite Law of Life, the “ Mighty I
AM Presence.”
I knew many of you during My Ministry and have
observed all that has taken place in your Stream of
Life since—
seeing the evidence, the activity and the
willingness of many individuals to accept their
“ Mighty I AM Presence.” Thus, for the individual to
set himself free, is the only transcendent activity.
Your experiences in Life are like a great whip that
lashes you back to your Source of Life, the “ Mighty I
Am.” Do you not agree with Me, when I say that in
almost all cases it is sufficiently severe? Think of the
agony mankind goes through, due to the power
gained through human concept; because of lack in
understanding of the Law of Life. Yet they willingly
go on, and on, and on, seeking the Light with the
heart; but the feeling, through the intellect, over­
rules in practically all outer activity.
Today, you all have this simplified Explanation—
the eye picture of your Reality, by which you can
govern your Life, your feeling, your world and allow
that Great Intelligence, the Life of the Universe, to
bring Divine Order out of the chaos which mankind
i6 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
has created. It seems appalling, that the human intel­
lect could have created such great chaos for mankind,
as the Beloved Saint Germain has said—by forming
conclusions from fragmentary information, all of
which is gathered from without.
There is no permanent foundation upon which any
human concept is formed. That is why, beloved ones,
when you say to your human self and its concepts:
“ you have no power,” you take out of it the power
with which you have previously charged it. Then, the
full Light gains Its Supremacy in governing the outer
activity of your world; but it must go through
your attention. Without the attention upon the
Supreme Presence of Life, the “ Mighty I AM ,” man­
kind has no hope. There is no place to go without it!
Those in the churches throughout the world, who
have claimed to adore Me and preach My Words,
have utterly failed to comprehend this. They pray
constantly to a God, whom they have placed so far off,
that it seems to require infinite time to reach It. This
is why today, the prayers of mankind are answered
less, and less, and less. It is why these precious ones,
who have come to know the “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
which is the very Infinite Presence of God to whom
all should have prayed, have immediate results from
their calls; from their Decrees and their prayers.
After all what is prayer, Oh beloved ones? I mean
real prayer, the prayer which is answered? What is it?
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T *7
A sincere desire of the heart, which is feeling. That is
what is released when prayers are answered. It is be­
cause enough feeling is released to produce the re­
sults. No result can be produced in your outer world
of activity without feeling, because feeling is the
Power-house! the outer activity of the Inner Power
of the Presence.
Today you, the beloved students of the “ I AM ”
under Saint Germain’s Radiation, are the most for­
tunate beings on earth; for you have entered into a
definite, powerful Law. It is the Law of your Life and
you get results; if you are in earnest, if you are sincere
and keep your feelings harmonized.
It is useless for mankind to go on, ignoring the
qualities of Life which individuals are using every
waking moment and many times sleeping as well.
Qualities act regardless of Wisdom or ignorance, re­
gardless of intent. If the intent is vivid, sometimes
they act more powerfully. When you understand the
Power of the Universe is your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” acting at your command; at your call; at the
issuing of your decrees; then you have entered into
your real Power-house. When It is brought forth into
the physical world, It will release you from the human
creation and bondage, under which you have lived
for so many centuries.
How do you suppose I knew when speaking to this
good brother, your Messenger, two thousand years
18 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
ago that in a far distant time he would comprehend
My Words? Because in the Great Cosmic Light of the
“ I AM ” all is revealed. In this embodiment, there is
being fulfilled that which I knew then. Through him,
his Freedom and yours is assured.
Within the past five years, We have watched over
and cared for these blessed ones; prepared and
brought forth This Release to mankind. Do you not
think Our Love must be very great for them? Our
Love, intensified by their great Love, has poured out
to you blessed Children of the Light, with such great
Power that It has supplied you with strength; until
you understood your “ Mighty I AM Presence” suf­
ficiently, to hold your own Dominion and gain your
own Victory.
Could there be any greater rejoicing in the world
than for the accomplishment of that which sets man­
kind free from all human accumulation and creation?
Why dear ones, do you suppose it was planned even
two years ago, to hold this class in your city at the
present time? Because, We knew the Great Cosmic
Law would move into action at this time, permitting
a Work to be done for you en masse, which ten days
before the opening of your class, could not have been
done. That is how accurate and definite the Great
Law acts. We, as Wholly Free Beings, must watch
and act in harmony with this Great Law; in order to
render the Service which your call has enabled Us to
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T *9
give. It is one thing to render a service when asked,
and quite another to render a service unasked.
I shall say a startling thing to you. Could the
Orthodox World, as you term it, accept This Under­
standing of God, their Infinite Presence, the “ Mighty
I AM ”—in one year, the earth would be transformed;
but the accumulated intellectual concepts, acting
through the feeling of mankind, do not permit such
Freedom to enter in; unless the individual is strong
enough to stand against human suggestion from both
within and without; for your own human suggestion
is quite as strong as the suggestion which permeates
the atmosphere in which you move.
Christian Science has taught mankind to use the
mind, but so many have forgotten to Love. The great
blessed one, who was the channel for that knowledge,
would so love to see a change; would be so grateful
for the world of Christian Science to turn on the
Power of Love. All the world is perishing for Love!
Oh, that all mankind might understand that if
enough Love—Divine Love, is poured forth, nothing
in the outer activity can be lost to them.
When different avenues of Truth battle with each
other because human concepts do not agree, what a
tragedy upon earth it is! You will notice these be­
loved Messengers battle no thing, no person; for they
have learned the Law, praise God! They go serenely
on, presenting the Truth which they know to be.
20 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
This good Brother in association with Saint Germain
saw the action of that Law. He goes forth pouring out
greater and greater Power, of the Love of the Presence
in every class. He condemns nothing, but loves all.
This is the Secret! If every avenue of Truth on earth
had this Secret, It would transform the world into a
Perfect Paradise within a few months.
It is My Joy to speak these Words to you today, that
you may know we are never separated. I feel your
Love, your thoughts, your prayers. If it were possible
for Me now to feel sorrow, My Heart would be heavy,
to find the doors of so many churches closed to Me.
Instead, I rejoice that a greater expansion of the Light
and opportunity have opened; for Me to pour forth
My Love and Assistance to those of mankind, who
can truly accept My Reality and My Presence. We
wait long and patiently for an opportunity to serve
mankind. Once more with My Blessed, Beloved
Brother Saint Germain, Hand in Hand, We move for­
ward to bring Light, Freedom, Blessing and the As­
cension to mankind.
In the fulness of My Love I enfold you, Oh My
beloved ones. In the fulness of the Freedom which I
have, I enfold you, anchoring within every person
who has come into this room, the Ascended Masters’
Qualities which will find outer expression in your
world as you advance; clothing you in the Ascended
Master Light-Substance which you will absorb. Now
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 21
I shall use a very curious expression—which chases out
of your atomic structure, your flesh body, the imper­
fection which is there.
I congratulate our beloved Sister, Lotus, on re­
ceiving so clearly and vividly, the use of the Substance
from the Love Star. That is a still greater Intensifica­
tion of the Ascended Master Substance, as you pre­
viously have understood It. When It is called forth to
envelope you, to clothe you—This Substance, in order
to make it practical and clear to you, I say moves in
and is absorbed into the body, and, as it were, chases
out the imperfection.
Now this is a Three-fold Activity and Assistance to
you. When once the use of the Unfed Flame is called
into action, all human discord and inharmony must
quickly give way before It; for through Its Mighty
Radiance, all unlike Itself must dissolve.
All you precious ones, and all who are here from a
distance; carry with you This Knowledge! It is im­
possible for any inharmony, any discord, to come
from your call to the “ Mighty I AM Presence” or your
call for the Unfed Flame. If there seems to be any­
thing else at any time, with any single individual, it
is because your fear has qualified the Energy and
Activity of the Radiance from the Unfed Flame with
your inharmony or discord. The Unfed Flame cannot
produce inharmony Itself. You have done the same
thing through long centuries; for you have been re-
22 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
qualifying the Mighty Energy, as It flows through
from your Presence with your human concepts and
feelings which were untrue. Thus, you have produced
in your world limitation of every description.
Through Our Assistance, in the calm serene ac­
knowledgment of your Presence and with harmony
in your feelings; you can quickly transform yourself
and your world into a Being and World of Light and
a God in command. The privilege is before you!
You must choose!
I extend to you the Love, the Eternal Blessing of
the Great Host of Ascended Masters and the Great
Angelic Host; to bless you and give you your Freedom
quickly; to give you the Power, Strength and Courage
to feel the Reality of your Presence; and to allow It
to do Its Perfect Work for you.
Eternal Infinite Light! clothe these beloved Stu­
dents of the “ I AM ,” all throughout America and the
world with the Ascended Masters’ Substance from
the Love Star; enfold them and fill their minds
and bodies with the Perfection which It is. It cannot
be requalified by human qualifications! Rejoice! and
be Free!
L A D Y M A S T E R N A D A ’ S D I S C O U R S E
HOUSTON, TEXAS
MARCH 1, 1937
I
T IS Saint Germain’s wish that I voice to you My
Love and the Love of the Great Host of Ascended
Masters Who are ministering to the children of
earth, in their search for Freedom and theirAscension.
Your great loving hearts in their great call have
received an answer. Saint Germain assures Me and
you, that at the first opportunity time permits, you
shall have the Messengers in your midst. They must
go East after the Sunrise Service and Pan Pacific Class.
The need is very great there and it will again establish
conditions of harmony; so that they may return to
the West in the future.
In your State of Texas, at a former time, there was
a Focus here of Great Light. This is one of the reasons
why Our good Messenger, Mr. Stickell, has been im­
pelled to work so largely in this locality and about
this central focus. You will remember, in reading the
books, of the civilization of seventy thousand years
ago; at this point on the earth, as well as in the Sahara
Desert, there was also a great Focus of Light. It was
not far from here. That is the reason why Texas must
go forward in her recognition of the Light. You, who
23
24 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
are here, now that your attention is called to it, will
be able to draw a very much greater Focus and Radia­
tion—not only of the Ancient Light which was focused
here; but you can expand and amplify your own, by
your attention having been called to this greater
Focus.
Throughout America there is coming a concerted
action through This Work; and We give such Grati­
tude to the Divine Director, for having requested
that the Group Regulations be held uniform through­
out America. One day, you shall know how great has
been the blessing of this uniform activity. The outer
man, or the human self, even after the attention is
called to the Presence, in the newness of it while ad­
justing to the Greater Ideals, has required time as
you humanly know it; to assimilate and realize deeply
what the simplicity of This Work is. You have been
assured time and again, that it is the exact Instruction,
the exact Application which We, as Ascended Beings,
did use when We had human forms like your own.
It is the exact Application which all of the Ascended
Masters have used, to attain Their Freedom and the
Ascension.
Those of the beloved students who will feel this
Truth deeply can be free! You will notice, We con­
stantly stress the feeling, because that is your Power­
house—
and when the students really feel the Truth of
this good brother’s experiences-especially the As-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 25
cension which took place on the side of Mount
Shasta—then you will know positively: there is no
limitation for you any longer, in the acceptance of
your “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
If you will be firm and determined, in calling your
Presence into action, there is not one solitary thing
of human limitation or seeming obstruction, that can
remain in your pathway. I assure you it means firm,
determined, constant application; until the human
appearance of limitation goes down before It. No
discord or limitation can stand before It, if you will
continue to apply this Law earnestly and with de­
termination. As you gain momentum in your recogni­
tion and acceptance of the Presence, you will find
every step becomes easier and easier.
Our Joy is boundless in finding so many of man­
kind joyously ready and willing, to accept this Knowl­
edge which at first seems so unusual and transcendent.
Yet It is very practical—all of it, dear hearts! It is as
practical as anything in your outer world. It is only
because human concepts have made transcendent ac­
tivities unusual, that any such feeling acts within the
individual; preventing often the use of these simple
transcendent qualities, which really are within every
human being.
For instance, the Power of your attention, vision
and qualification is so gigantic when consciously con­
trolled. These activities sound so simple and yet, they
26 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
are majestic and contain within them the Power of
the “ Mighty I AM Presence” and the Universe. Your
attention, precious ones, is the most powerful attri­
bute in the use of mankind; and it always has been!
because what your attention is upon, you compel
yourself to become, even in the human form. When
you realize that your attention has been on discord,
limitations, seeming obstructions of every kind and
human creations; then you know why you have com­
pelled yourselves to live in them, because of the power
of your attention.
When you turn from that and give your attention
to the Presence where all Perfection, all Intelligence
is; you give It all Power to flow forth in your world.
Your Presence will reverse not only your attention,
visualization and qualification; but the very Law
compels It to act according to where your attention
is. You will see at once the great Power, the great
Intelligence which is yours in the “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” for It beats your heart and gives you Life.
When your attention is turned to your Presence, you
have Its full Power flowing into you and your world,
not only to produce health in your body; but to flow
out in your world to harmonize and make your every
heart’s desire possible.
Precious ones, do you realize that every desire of
your heart is God in Action, the “ Mighty I AM
Presence”? You might say to Me: “ How about the
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 27
undesirable desire”? It is still the Mighty Energy of
God acting, but requalified by your discordant feel­
ing. See? Each one alone, precious ones, is responsible
for everything that takes place in his or her world.
Individuals, however, have not known this. They
have felt something outside as responsible for their
conditions, but after all that is not true. Every indi­
vidual person is responsible for what is in his own
world. Each one has either created it or possibly un­
knowingly has admitted it. Do you see?
You do not have to admit anything into your world
but the Presence. You must realize, that your atten­
tion to the Presence is not only your protection, but
prevents—if you will hold firmly to It—any requalifi­
cation, any picturing through your vision of anything
undesirable in your world.
Before you knew of your Presence, you could not
look upon a discordant thing without accepting it
into your feeling world. This was very important to
you. Wherever your attention went, you compelled
that to enter your feeling world; because there was
no protection; having turned away from the Presence
consciously, you must go back to the Presence con­
sciously. Therefore, when you come to know the
'Mighty I AM Presence.” you realize all that acts in
your world must come through your attention or call
to the Presence. Then, you will see how you become
the Master of your world in the acceptance of your
28 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
Presence; and how you alone are responsible for all
that is within it. As our Blessed Saint Germain so often
has said: “ You are the decreer for your world. Decree
a thing and it shall be established unto you.”
Therefore, while We have the opportunity in this
very quiet charged atmosphere, you will register what
I say very much more definitely and clearly. That is
why We take advantage of this opportunity, in your
wonderful loving call, which is going out to the Mes­
sengers from so many of you loved ones. We take this
opportunity to start the Radiation, in preparation for
the time w'hen We shall be in your midst with the
Messengers. As you understand that you, in the ac­
knowledgment of your Presence, now become the
Master of yourself and your world.
Can you imagine anything more joyful or more
wonderful than this marvelous beginning of your
Freedom; when so long everything outside, so to
speak, has mastered you and your world? Instead of
that, you shall become the Master of your own world!
One of the most wonderful fundamental things which
can ever come into the conscious feeling world of
mankind, is to know those exact words.
Will you all forever retain this explanation, to­
gether with the momentum you gain in your feeling-
world to accept your Presence above you? It is not
necessary to see It immediately, but to feel that It is
actually there; giving you the full Power of Its Out-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 29
pouring into your world. Then through your feeling,
It will answer your call always. As you come to realize
this, you will know not one single discordant thing.
Not one limiting thing, which has appeared before
you up to this time, can longer remain in your world.
Not only that, but when your attention, through
your feeling, really knows your Presence is there;
that moment, precious ones, your Ascension begins!
Think of it, precious hearts! After so many hundreds
of centuries, having lived in bodies similar to these—
sometimes more free; sometimes less so, now you
have again re-embodied at this time, to receive the
transcendent Knowledge of the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” in the clearness with which Blessed Saint
Germain has brought It forth to mankind. Think of
it! not since the height of the last Great Civilization
on Atlantis, has It ever come into the world like this.
Fragments have come forth. Those in the Retreats
and some of the Priesthood of Egypt knew these
Laws; but many distorted them.
To-day, this Mighty Law of the “ I AM ” has come
forth in Its simplicity and clearness. This time, It is
being protected by the Great Host of Ascended
Masters; so human concepts do not intrude into this
Instruction which Saint Germain has brought forth.
It is clear, all-powerful and definite. As you apply It,
you must have your results. I urge you precious ones—
you who are so sincere and so in earnest—I plead with
3° ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
you, read those books! read! and read! and read them!
until they actually become a part of yourself in your
feeling-world. It is not necessary that you remember
all the wording that is there; but as you continue to
read, through the powerfully charged Vibratory Ac­
tion of the books; you will anchor within yourselves,
the exact Truth which is recorded there. I call your
attention, precious ones, especially to the Activities
which took place in the Cave of Symbols; the Activity
that took place in the Royal Teton; and third, the
closing Activity of the “ Magic Presence,” which took
place in Chananda’s home in the Cave of Light in
India.
Dear hearts, read often even just those parts, when
you feel so impelled. Always finish with the close of
the “ Magic Presence” in Chananda’s home in India.
It is only a short part there; but if you will do that,
you will receive such Assistance. You do not need to
take your time from other things just especially. You
will be suddenly impelled to take up the book and
read certain parts. Then feel, Oh feel, that which you
read; and you will take into your feeling-world ex­
actly the Quality which is recorded in those Words.
Remember! those Words are “cups” that carry the
Quality which the Ascended Ones wish to convey to
you. That is why these books are so much more power­
ful than anything which has ever come into the outer
world.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 31
It is a very rare thing to find the number who are
present here so harmonized that they are like one
heart-beat. Can you imagine Our Joy to find it so?
I shall expect, We shall expect, some wonderful things
to come from within your city of Houston. I assure
you, if your devotion, your joy, your Love and your
loyalty to the Light continue, you can bring forth any­
thing. Then, just rejoice and go on as one happy
family here, held in the Arms of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence” ; in the great acceptance of Its Wondrous
Light, for It is the Governor of the Universe. Let It
just pour through each body, Its Wondrous Currents
of Energy; to heal and to enlighten. Let Its Perfecting
Activity fill you, until every one becomes such a
blazing Light that anyone touching your Radiance
will feel Its Mighty Healing Presence.
Do you know, dear hearts, that in the acknowledg­
ment of your Presence, every one becomes a Pillar of
Light which contains healing, freeing, perfecting,
blessing, enlightening Power? It is not your human
form that does it; but in your acceptance of the
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” your human form becomes
a Pillar of Light or a dynamo of the Energy and
Power from the Presence, pouring out Its Radiance.
Dear hearts, even in your homes and business, you
will find It is not only the Source of all harmony and
supply; but just feel the Great Power of your Pres­
ence flow forth through your heart, spread out; and
32 ASCENDED MASTER L IG H T
fill your home and world with the Glory of Its Pres­
ence.
Do not ever urge this Knowledge of the “ Mighty
I AM ,” upon anyone; but always keep pouring forth
Its Light through the Radiation. Then, hundreds
whom you touch will suddenly turn and many times
use these exact words: “What is it I feel about you”?
Because this Radiation going forth will become so
powerful, with your attention upon It, that often
people will feel It to such an extent, they will actually
turn and ask you about It. The Messengers have so
often experienced this, and every one of the earnest
students will become the same great Radiation of
Light.
You cannot give your attention earnestly to the
Presence, dear hearts, without a constantly greater,
greater, and greater, Outpouring of this Radiance
coming forth; because that is the Law of your Being.
It is not a matter of your needing to impel something
forth. The Presence is always joyously happy, ready
and willing.
Let Me anchor within your consciousness this one
thing. Every time you call to your Presence, know that
the Presence of an Unascended Being, as you see on
the Chart, does not know anything about your limita­
tions down here. It has provided your Higher Mental
Body which is the discriminating, selective Intelli­
gence by which your needs and requirements are
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 33
known. Your Higher Mental Body knows your limi­
tations and knows the Perfection of the Presence; but
will not accept your limitation. Therefore, that is the
blessing to all mankind. Realize this! and know that
when you call to your Presence, your Higher Mental
Body sees all the requirements down here—knows
exactly how and what to release to fulfill your need.
Do you see, precious ones, there could not be a single
failure in any one of your calls?
This is what I want you to feel every morning and
keep yourselves reminded in every call: “ My Higher
Mental Body is my discriminating, selective Intel­
ligence and when I call to my Presence, It cannot fail
to respond. It has waited throughout the centuries,
for me to give It recognition in order to produce Per­
fection in my world.” Therefore, your human intel­
lect will never come back at you and try to argue with
you about the activity. This is what mankind needs;
because it is the human which has argued humanity
out of its Higher Ideals all the time.
In many of the precious schools of metaphysics,
people have used this expression, and I say it because
some of you may have used it. For instance: “ I am
the supply of the money I require.” Your intellect
will often come back and say: “ Where is it”? I am
trying to fortify you against that. It is true, but if you
will instead say: “ Mighty I AM Presence, see that I
am supplied with all the money I require” ; then your
34 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
intellect cannot come back and say: “ Where is it”?
Many times people have had great difficulty with
just this point. This good Messenger himself in the
earlier years had great difficulty with it. We call your
attention to it, so if at any time your attention is called
to it, you are immediately the Master.
We have all heard your precious call and Our
Love pours back to you like a Mighty River. I enfold
you in the Radiance of My Being, of Saint Germain,
Jesus and the Mighty Divine Director. The Mighty
Divine Director has charged into your heart
center certain Qualities which He wishes to expand
and amplify for you. To-day is a day for which We
shall always rejoice, because it is Our first opportu­
nity to give Our Enfolding Presence direct, through
your attention.
You cannot imagine just yet, what it means to have
the Messengers at a given point where these Great
Pillars of Light may be drawn for Radiation. They,
being the first opportunity for the Out-pouring of
this Great Energy of the “ I AM,” naturally must
remain the Great Central Focus for Its Activity.
When We move them about from place to place, it
is because the great need is there for greater Light to
be drawn, to expand and to do Its Perfect Work
Everything in the Universe came out of Light and
all must again become the Light. Remember! Light
is Self-luminous, Intelligent Substance, from which
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 35
all form is composed. Divine Love is Self-luminous
Intelligent Substance—therefore one with Light and
Love. It is the Power which no sinister force in the
world can use! Everything which is unlike the Light
and the Power of the Presence of Divine Love fears
It. So you in your acknowledgment of the Presence,
which is the Light of the world, have naught to fear
in all the world—visible or invisible. Stand within the
Radiance of your Presence and go forth free from
every limitation, and then into your Ascension.
The Love of the Mighty Host of Ascended Masters,
the Legion of Light and the Great Cosmic Beings en­
folds you now and forever. I thank you.
G R E A T D I V I N E D I R E C T O R ’ S
D I S C O U R S E
PHILADELPHIA, PA.
MARCH 25, 1938
H ILDREN of the Light! May I repeat that?
CH ILDREN OF TH E LIG H T ! Stand forth
in your Mighty Glory! Release the Power of
Light from your Presence through yourself! Your
firm determination, in the desire to serve the Light
is your Victory. Your desire is God, your “ Mighty I
AM Presence’’ in action, giving you the opportunity
to glorify Its Light which is within you. Give It
dominion over your mind, body, world and activity,
to the glory of all that your hearts desire and require!
In the fulness of the Light which beats your heart,
everyone of you is the Authority, the Power, the
Glory that all mankind have sought throughout the
centuries. Behold the Chart! and see that Great
Stream of Life, Light, Energy, Intelligence and
Power, which is Yourself. It is anchored within your
own physical heart, glorifying all mankind in the
fulness of Its Infinite, Almighty Power, as they give It
their attention.
You A R E Children of the Light! because the Light
which is Eternal, is anchored within your heart. The
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 37
Power of Life is there! The Authority and Intelli­
gence of the Infinite Power that rules the Universe is
in your heart! In your individual Life, you can have
the fulness of It brought into action through your hu­
man form; by the Intelligence and Power of your
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” as It comes within the
Stream of Light which beats your heart and gives
Life to your physical structure.
Beloved ones, tonight as I voice these Words to you,
please still yourselves so I may render a Service for
you. I trust that there will not be fifty people go out
of this room whose human creation will not have
been consumed! Give Me your attention. If you will
still yourselves, in this stillness is a great calm feeling
of the Presence and Power of Light—interpenetrating
your physical structure; filling your physical world
with Its Infinite Power of Light. Then, in great full
acceptance of the Power of the Light from your
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” let Its Mighty Activity
flood your being and world.
As I amplify It through each human form, It will
meet the uprising Violet Consuming Flame. Then,
in Its Infinite Power and Activity the earth and the
heavens shall meet and be free in the Glory of Its com­
bined Power and activity! Such is the Glory of the
ever-increasing intensifying Power of Light. It is
flooding the earth with the Cosmic Light; amplified
by the activity of the students everywhere; by the
« O H H H M i
38 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
Power of the Ascended Masters, the Cosmic Beings
and the Legion of Light.
Beloved ones, why do you suppose the Messenger
came to you tonight? Because the time was ripe. The
time was ready, beloved ones, when certain activities
had to take place for you. The Power of Light knows
no opposite! Remember that in all of your activity.
Remember, that when It floods forth at your call,
everything unlike It disappears. Therefore, in the
Power of your momentum in the Decrees, it is no
wonder the Messenger said human creation could not
remain longer. Neither can entities remain in this
Mighty Flood of Light which goes forth. Oh, that
you might have seen the Radiance which went forth.
It was your energy! Let Me explain, so you may always
remember it. As It reached a certain intensity in the
power of your feeling, It raised to a certain altitude
above you, which went into the Power of Infinite
Light. What do you think that means to you individu­
ally? When this Mighty Energy from you is released
and reaches this point wherein it meets the Great
Activity—
not only of the Cosmic Light; but this Light
released from the Octave of the Ascended Masters. It
is just as if It bursted into a Great Blazing Light and
Power. In this Amplification, It is returned to you
individually a thousand fold beyond what It left you:
to bring about this same Perfection into the earth; for
the protection of America.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 39
Every night before you sleep, individually send
forth a Mighty Silent Call: for the Infinite Powers of
the Air to take Their Dominion over all aerial service
for the protection of America! T H E AM ERICAS!
and let this Power of protection act! Let this outer
activity of mankind give you Its Assistance and Pro­
tection for your shores. The aerial service today,
beloved ones, is the outer activity needed; to protect
nations from the other warfare of mankind in the
physical activity. In your call to the Power of Light,
for Its Infinite Power and Protection to be released
through the Power of the Air the fulness of Its Infinite
Power and Activity comes to answer your call. If need
be, It acts in your outer physical means of defense.
This is how the Powers of Light are preparing the
way for Its Glory to hold about you Infinite Power
and Protection of Light in all you require.
Not in hundreds of centuries have there been this
number of humanity ready—willing to make the call
as you are doing, for the protection of your country;
for the protection of each other; for the protection of
mankind. Do you not understand, beloved ones, with­
out the Assistance of the Ascended Masters, the
Legion of Light, the Cosmic Beings and the Great
Cosmic Light; mankind would be as helpless as in­
fants before this onrushing power of human creation?
Take notice, please! All of you to some extent are
responsible for the conditions in the outer world;
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
40
but now in your mighty calls, you have performed
the act of redemption in your world to a very large
degree. So I say to you henceforth—give no thought
to what has been!
Whether you feel it necessary or not, please once a
day at least, call on the Law of Forgiveness for any
mistakes which you might have made or do make.
Turn your attention away from human creation and
listen to no one who breathes gossip or discord. We
have asked this so repeatedly and yet some of the
precious students continue to feel critical or dis­
cordant to some person, place or condition. I tell you,
beloved students, you are in great danger when you
do this!
We love you tremendously, but We see your danger
individually, when you continue to feel discord
toward any person, place or condition at this point in
the activity of the destructive forces of mankind.
You have no idea to what a few moments of irrita­
tion might open yourselves. I plead with you, in the
Name of humanity—do not do it! Have no concern,
precious people, about anything except the cleansing
and purifying of your own mind, body and world.
Do not be concerned about someone else.
I am pleading with you, dear people of Phila­
delphia! Do not feel that I am criticizing you or in
any way doing anything but to lift you from the con­
dition which has limited you in numbers here. It is
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 4 1
because of the subtle under-current that has con­
tinued to manifest in your city among the students.
It is your critical feeling to each other here which has
held your numbers limited. I plead with you, precious
ones, stop all of that now! tonight! Let your Love and
Power flood forth from your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” to bless each other and you will see how
quickly all of your Groups will be flooded with more
than you can handle. I am pleading with you for your
city! for America! and the great protection which it
must have.
Do not please, dear ones! Oh do not! Do not, I pray
of you, criticize each other or have any feeling toward
each other but kindliness and blessing. YOU W ILL
REM EM BER MY WORDS, IF YOU DO N O T
HEED TH EM . As I said to the beloved ones in the
West—“ No longer may I prompt you” ! I should love
to, if it were necessary, but the Law of your Life—of
your Being says “ No” ! So tonight, in My Great Love,
My Great Earnestness, I endeavor to give you this
Assistance. I am here to perform this Service for you,
that your call and earnest love have made possible.
It is not easy for mankind to realize in the limited
consciousness of the human, what Great Tran­
scendent Powers are enfolding them every moment
now.
You, as students of the Light, by your attention to
the Light, are being flooded by the Light; and there-
42 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
fore, dear ones, please feel Its Infinite Power acting
in, through and about you. As you pour forth great
Love and kindliness to all mankind, your Being
and world will be flooded with every good thing. T o­
day, several people who have chosen not to listen to
Us are beginning to reap the unhappiness that will
be theirs. We do not wish to see any one reap any un­
happiness, even though it might be of their own crea­
tion; but if they will not listen to Us, then We cannot
help them, much as our Hearts pour out.
So I say to you tonight, beloved ones, have no
thought about each other, but to pour forth your
Love, kindness and blessings. Let the Power of the
Light of your Being, individually, and the Great Cos­
mic Light sweep into your midst; and see how quickly
all obstruction will be cleared away. This precious
child (Francis Ekey) is calling so earnestly and you
have seen the manifestations which she is calling forth,
with your assistance. Pour forth only Love to that
child who thinks of nothing but the Light and Its
Blessings to mankind. Many, many, many in America
today are coming to realize this.
You will have noticed the Messengers have been
compelled to call your attention to many of the condi­
tions, the destructive conditions of the world- be­
cause mankind was compelled to know of and under­
stand the forces and conditions with which they have
been dealing. Today, more and more power is being
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 43
turned into the wholly Constructive Activity. In your
Group Activities, mankind has come to understand
the forces they are opposing. The thing to do is to
hold the attention more, and more, and more, on the
Constructive Power, since the explanation and In­
struction have now been given to mankind. It is in the
books. Therefore, do all you can to hold all your
energy on the Constructive Upward Trend—the
Power of Light.
Beloved ones, in the Messengers’ classes, when they
were compelled to give the explanation of human
qualities and creations, you have seen and felt the rate
of the vibratory action lowered in the room. Every­
one has noticed it in every class that has ever been
held. This explanation has been given to enough of
mankind, so now they are putting these Mighty De­
crees forth into the mental and feeling world of the
people. They are going forth with a Mighty Consum­
ing Activity into the mental and feeling world. Many
are being touched today in the mental and feeling
world who are not aware of what is going on; but they
feel the joy, the release and the Infinite Power acting
there.
So beloved ones, tonight, will you please feel My
Love and Blessings pouring out to you; to give you
Our Assistance in this Final Effort which will hold
you free from discord of any kind? As long as there is
any disturbed feeling, dear ones, can you not see that
44 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
whatever produces irritation in your feeling world is
depriving you, right now, of your Freedom and
Victory? There is no provocation in the outer world
which warrants your being irritated. It just means
that you are binding yourselves wholly in the world
of human creation; because all irritable, destructive
thoughts and feelings are human creation still bind­
ing you.
Tonight, it is My great, very great joy to render
a Service to as many as possible in the room; that all
human feeling may dissolve forever. Then the Glory
of your own Light takes Its Dominion in, through and
about you; to fill your world with Its Glory and Its
Happiness. Oh dear ones, Happiness! Mankind has
not touched the periphery of happiness as yet. Only
when your feeling world is calm and at peace, no
matter what is going on in the world about you, only
then will you know what happiness is. Precious ones,
the happiness that floods the feeling world of the
Messengers, since they have been able to shut out all
discordant feeling, has brought them such peace as
the world has never known. Individuals can know
this happiness only as they come to this point of Self-
control and Understanding. Oh precious ones re­
member! whatever causes disturbance in your feel­
ings is human creation binding you longer to the
chains of limitation.
Now for just a few moments will yO
U please still
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 45
yourselves? Be at ease—at rest. Have no anxiety. Do
not wonder what I am going to do. Just let the Light
do Its Perfect Work, for all that I shall do is through
your own Stream of Light which beats your hearts.
Do not qualify any feeling that comes within your
body with anything but the Perfection of your
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” for nothing can act but to
glorify you. Therefore, in the fulness of your Infinite
Active Presence and Power, stand glorified in the
Power of your Presence!
(Silence)
I speak to the Higher Mental Body of everyone
present! “ Release Your Mighty Power of the Unfed
Flame! Bring from beneath the feet, over the floor
of this room, the Mighty Power of the Three-fold
Activity of the Violet Consuming Flame; dissolving
and consuming every vestige of human creation that
has ever been drawn about each one. Glorify Thy­
self, Oh Mighty Power of Light, in the fulness of Thy
Activity in this Accomplishment. So charge Thy
Mighty Power of Self-control into the feeling world of
each one, that no one ever has the desire again to feel
irritated or discordant; or to have a single opinion
about anyone except to pour forth Love and Blessings
and to wish them well.”
Tonight, in this room there is the Power and Activ­
ity from the Cave of Light in India! that the fulness
of Its Power may render Its Service now to these Chil-
46 ASCENDED MASTER LIG H T
dren of Light. Since they cannot go there, then I bring
that Light here to enfold them in this room; to hold
them in Its Radiance, so the fulness of Its Power may
continue to act forever in their Lives henceforth.
Their Life is the Power of Light! No longer shall We
consider human qualities! Henceforth, the Power
of Light which beats each human heart, is the Do­
minion within each mind, body and feeling world.
It is taking Its dominion! holding Its commanding,
conquering Presence there to bless each one with the
fulness of Its Happiness; Its Enthusiasm; Its Good­
will to all things. It holds the feeling world harmo­
nized in the ever-increasing Power and Perfection
from the call to their Presence; which continues in Its
expanding, intensifying Activity to glorify each one
with the Eternal Freedom of the Light.
(Silence)
We thank Thee, Oh Great Powers of Light! We
thank Thee, Great Cosmic Light! We thank Thee,
Great Cosmic Beings, Great Legion of Light and
Great Host of Ascended Masters!
Now, as We follow this, Mighty Goddess of Liberty,
charge into the feeling world of each one, Thy Mighty
Feeling of Freedom and Loyalty to America. Let It
expand in the feeling world everywhere and do Its
Perfect Work in the regeneration of the feeling of all
mankind. Lift them out of all communistic feeling in
the world! Set them firm in the Light! Charge them
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 47
with the feeling of Love and Loyalty for America.
Mighty Victory! charge into the feeling world of
each one, Thy Mighty Power and Feeling of Victory,
Self-control and Thy Mighty Power of Light. May
each one release through the Quality which you place
there, this Radiance to all with whom they come in
contact.
On last Sunday, this Mighty Activity was started
for the earth; so each one might spread to the others,
through the power of Radiation, these Mighty Quali­
ties which are being charged into the feeling world
of all by these Great Cosmic Beings. They are the
Authority for the earth. They are the Authority for
all mankind! May each one be enabled to receive this
full Activity in their feeling worlds; so it may con­
tinue to act there in Its limitless Power, to produce
all that these qualities mean to the individual, to
America and to mankind.
In the fulness of the Infinite Power of Light which
is yours, cherish It! love It! adore It! and call It forth
with the full consciousness, that this Light which you
are speaking to knows no opposition. It moves for­
ward into action.
For your bodies, in harmonizing and healing: stand
and raise your hands to your “ Mighty I AM Presence”
in the silence of your own room. As you call It forth,
feel the Power of Light interpenetrate all; pouring
in, through and around each cell; charging your feel-
48 ASCENDED MASTER LIG H T
ing world; sweeping out every imperfection, every
pain, its cause, effect and record; all distress from your
mental and feeling world and your physical body.
Sweep it out with the full Power of Light! that the
Light may hold Its Dominion forever within your
human form, as well as around it. Then, by the power
of Its ever-increasing Intensification, let Its Radiance
flow out to bless all with which you come in contact.
Try to feel this tonight, while you are held within
this Radiance. Try to feel, beloved ones, the Power
and Authority of Light!
(Silence)
I speak to the points of Light within every cell of
the body of each one: “ Expand! expand! expand!
Dissolve all human qualities! Dissolve the density
which clothed those points of Light so long; and
shut in their Radiance, until human forms have be­
come filled with pain and distress. Release tonight
that Light! Dissolve every bit of density. Let this
Light pour forth through the human form; and
restore it now to perfect Health, Strength, Happi­
ness, Courage, Power and Dominion even in the flesh
structure of the body.
“ Mighty Victory, dissolve all doubts and fears
within the feeling world of each one! Dissolve them
now, and let these beloved ones go forth in the full
Courage, Strength and Power of the Dominion of
their own Light-unobstructed, untouched by any
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 49
human quality longer. Then, make this Radiance so
powerful; and draw the Tube of Light about them
so powerfully, that no longer will they feel a desire to
have, to do, to be, anything but the Power of Light
in action! So charge this forth that no longer will the
Glory of Thyself be withheld from mankind!
“ In this great need today, stand forth, Oh human­
ity, in your Victory of the Light! Stand forth, Oh
America! in your Victory of the Light! May no nation,
may no group of people of any kind ever be able to
touch your shores with discord! Great Cosmic Light!
cleanse and purify the feeling world of every human
being in America now! Charge forth all that is re­
quired to give every assistance! Charge into our
Government the Ascended Masters’ Presence, In­
telligence, Activity and Power to hold Divine Justice
everywhere, in all Governmental offices. Hold the
Dominion of the Light there.
“As the class enters into action in Washington,
D. C., Great Cosmic Beings and Great Cosmic Light!
take your Dominion in that city! cleanse and purify
all! Seize, bind and remove all entities! Dissolve and
consume all human creations about the people there
and all officials. See that Thy Power of Divine Justice
reigns there now! Supreme forever, in the Glory of
Thy Eternal Light” !
(Silence)
Beloved ones, do not feel that you are being de-
5o ASCENDED MASTER LIG H T
prived of anything by the need of the Messengers else­
where. Your great Power and release of Energy has
made this Mighty Activity possible tonight! In this
Glory, be joyful and happy. Enter into the glory of
your activity here with greater happiness, freedom
and certainty within your minds; that the Great
Wisdom always acts correctly. Let all harmonize them­
selves and release the Power of Light from within.
It is energy! It is substance! Then the Great Powers
of Light can take it up and bring into the earth that
which is needed. Remember, whether it be in your
individual Life; whether it be in your city; whether
it be in the nation or the earth; the imperative need,
the imperative demand of the world today, is the re­
lease from human qualities. I do not mean by that
you should go to extremes; but just in a great con­
trolled rapidity of action, release the energy from
being requalified. Then, the energy can be utilized
by the Great Powers of Light, to give mankind the
protection and Assistance which is necessary at this
time.
Beloved ones, the old staid pride of human beings
and their human qualities are bound to disappear, for
they have held mankind so long from being natural.
Be natural, beloved ones, in the Joy, Happiness and
Enthusiasm of your understanding of the Powers of
Light. Old qualities of human beings are fast dis­
appearing from the earth; and as the human creation
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 5 '
is more and more dissolved by your call to the Power
of Light; then shall mankind feel this Great Freedom.
It is just naturalness which is trying to find expres­
sion. Because of old custom, they could not release
themselves from the old false pride of custom and
human creation. Again I say, Children of the Light,
be natural! By that naturalness, let the full Power of
Light flood forth; because as long as human beings
feel limited or bound by custom, human opinions or
whatever it may be; they cannot release this power of
feeling which is so needed today.
Tonight, everyone here will be able to release a
power and feeling that you have not known hereto­
fore. You will release it with ease, with joy, with en­
thusiasm which will bring forth results, which I am
sure will satisfy anyone. Try, from tonight, never to
feel limited again in any way whatever. This does not
mean that you should not use discrimination or allow
the Selective Intelligence and Discrimination from
your Higher Mental Body to act; because remember,
no one is free from mistakes until he has gained the
Ascension. No matter what your mistakes are, your
Great Presence of Life, your Higher Mental Body,
the Ascended Masters, the Legion of Light, and the
Cosmic Beings never condemn—never have the slight­
est opinion. They just wait for you to harmonize your­
selves and give such Perfect Obedience, that the full
Infinite Power of Light which beats your heart can
52 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
take Its Dominion and flood your mind, body and
world. It is the Power of Light that is your supply! It
is the Power of Light that is your Happiness! It is
the Power of Light that is your Health.
I have tried to anchor this firmly in your feeling
world tonight. May I remind you again that when
your body needs harmonizing; when it needs healing
of any condition; feel the Power of Light, which is
Self-luminous Intelligent Substance from your Pres­
ence, sweep in, through and around your body and
through your feeling world. Let it sweep out every
pain, imperfection, cause, effect and record. Every­
one of you from tonight, should be able to release this
Power of Light from your Presence and hold your
bodies, your feeling world, in complete dominion and
obedience to your Great Presence of Light. I trust
that everyone will with ease, happiness and comfort
be enabled to do it. If some miracle should be per­
formed in the Life of some one of you, just give thanks
and praise; be humble and go on; but if some great
miracle should not be performed after tonight, do not
let your human come in and begin to expand a single
thought. Every time it attempts to assert itself say: “ Be
silent! before this Presence of Light, and let It do Its
Perfect Work.” Then, you will hold the obedience
and harmony within your own intellect and feeling
world which will allow this ever intensifying activity
to maintain Its Dominion for you.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 53
In just four minutes, for the first time, there will
flood into this Group of Students, the Selective Qual­
ity of the Great Cosmic Light. As It sweeps into the
room, may everyone accept It with the fulness of his
or her heart’s Light; qualifying It to be Self-sustained
in Its Eternal Activity; for the release of the supply
of money and all else required; for the producing of
Perfect health; for the producing of the Freedom
and Ascension, as the Great Wisdom directs.
(Silence)
May I tell you how powerfully the Selective Intelli­
gence of the Great Presence acts? Beside yourselves,
there are fifty-six thousand of the “ I AM ” Students in
their etheric bodies, who have been drawn to this
Focus tonight! If you saw with your All-Seeing-Eye,
you would see no roof above you. You would see your­
selves in the Radiance of this All-powerful Light, held
within Its Mighty Strength and Embrace; and those
who have by that Selective Intelligence been drawn
here, will carry this Radiance back into their physi­
cal bodies tonight. In calling your attention to these
things, it has made you receptive. Please use your
Power of Qualification silently, that this be forever
sustained and active for you. Will you each one,
silently make the call to the Great Cosmic Light to
perform this same Service for every class in the future
and every Group of “ I AM ” Students gathered every­
where in America and the world? Do not forget that in
54 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
almost every country in the world now, there are
Groups of earnest “ I AM ” Students. They are in
South Africa, France, Belgium, Scotland, England,
India, Australia, New Zealand, Honolulu, South
America, Central America, and Mexico.
Do you not see how very wonderful it is to receive
this, even in the midst of a great city? Outside your
Walls of Light, the world goes on in its destructive
activities. Yet you are held within the Embrace of
Light, as though you were in the far-away Cave of
Light in India. Such is the Power of the Walls of
Light. As you have called them forth so earnestly, one
day, you will find those Walls of Light, when called
about yourselves, your Groups and your Activities,
are as impenetrable as a wall of steel.
As your blessed Frances has often shown you the il­
lustration, this Wall of Light which you draw about
you cannot be penetrated by any vibratory action
lower than Itself; while in your walls and even
through your walls of steel, there can penetrate the
vibratory action of the Violet Flame, the Unfed
Flame and the Powers of Light. The Power of Light,
beloved ones, interpenetrates every structure there
is on earth; and in and through the earth. Therefore,
feel your enormous privilege, in having become a
part of this great, great Stream of Light; which is
flooding the earth and the human forms of mankind
with Its great cleansing, purifying Activity. This ever
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 55
and ever brings Its greater penetrating Power and
Activity. Do not let your attention be drawn by the
noise without. Stand glorified with the fulness of all
that means Perfection for you. Remember this night!
It is showing you how the two opposite conditions
can have only a thin Wall of Light between them, yet
it is impenetrable to destructive forces.
Therefore, in the fulness of the illustration of the
Victory of Light in the midst of a great city; you may
have the assurance that the Power of Light can have
Its Dominion on earth through individuals, through
cities or the Nation. That is what I want to anchor
so firmly within your thought and feeling world to­
night. Then, you cannot be deprived of the Power
and Action of Light in Its cleansing, purifying,
supplying, Perfecting Activity for you and your
world; so long as you will give undivided attention
to the Power of your own Presence, the “ Mighty I
AM .” It is the Power of Light! the Power of Life!
with Its ever-expanding, commanding Presence and
Power.
This Assistance given you today is unparalleled in
the history of the earth in more than six thousand
years in this particular Activity. Remember! you
came with great joy, happiness and enthusiasm to­
night, and see the results, beloved ones. Oh that all
mankind might know and understand what releasing
the Power of true Joy, Happiness, Love and Gratitude
56 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
means in Its harmonizing action through the human
form.
I congratulate you, beloved ones, and I congratu­
late everyone of the Group Leaders and students who
have been the means of releasing this Joy and En­
thusiasm into the hearts and feeling world of each
one. In the fulness of this Power which has been re­
leased tonight, will you be kind enough to bring back
the memory of it each night before you sleep and
remember what it means to you? May it be an Eternal
Memory of Joy, Happiness, Freedom and the Victory
of the Light to you.
As we stand in the Presence of all Life, may each
one feel Its penetrating sustaining Power which
brings the fulness of Its Victory into the mind, body,
feeling world, and into the home of every beloved
one. Let Its Peace, Harmony and Glory hold Its Do­
minion there forever; flooding your being and world
with such Dominion and Self-control, that as each one
calls hourly or daily to the Great Presence of all Life,
the “ Mighty I AM ,’’ so the response will come more
and more quickly. The answer to your call will come
and everyone will see and know from his own expe­
rience the full Dominion of Its Light.
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” Great Host of Ascended
Masters, Mighty Legion of Light, Great Cosmic Be­
ings, Great Cosmic Light! I call your Mighty Activity
to take command of these beloved ones. Hold your
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 57
full Charge and Activity within their minds, bodies,
homes and feeling world; to bless not only themselves,
but all with whom they come in contact. May the
Power and Radiance of Light pour forth so power­
fully that each one quickly, tangibly, becomes a
Mighty Pillar of Light as he moves among mankind
to heal, to bless, to prosper, enlighten and glorify all.
May each one be supplied with and release the limit­
less Gifts from the Treasure-house of the Presence
wherever he moves; whether it be money or whatever
it may be that is required to bring greater happiness
and Perfection. Then, shall this Mighty Power take
Its Dominion and produce Its Perfect Results. We
give praise and thanks for the full acceptance within
each heart; for the Glory of Its expanding Activity;
to give everyone the full glory of their successful ap­
plication to their entire satisfaction, in the release of
the Power of the “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Remem­
ber! As the Power of the Presence is called forth into
the human octave, so must It be balanced in the
human form, by Self-control in the feeling world.
That is complete obedience to the Law of each one’s
Life, so Life may produce for them the glory of Its
Eternal Beauty, Perfection, Health and limitless
Supply of all that is required, for their happiness,
comfort and service in the Light. I thank you.
S A N A T K U M A R A ’ S D I S C O U R S E
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
JULY 1 1 , 1937
A IN T GERM AIN:
Beloved students, My Heart rejoices with
you so tremendously today, in the co-operation
you have given through your Mighty Decrees for the
preparation of this class. It has made possible such tre­
mendous Work to be done for each one of you.
My Gratitude, My Love enfolds you always and re­
member, that at any time of great crisis, after you have
called to your Presence, call to Me and I will give you
every Assistance possible. We cannot amplify the
power and energy of those whose motives are not
right; but for those whose motives are, as you say in
your slang phrase—“ We will go the limit.” We want
you to know, that you are not alone, beloved ones!
You are no longer subject to even your own human
creations! Means are being provided in your feeling
world to give you Freedom. If you will keep harmoni­
ous and make earnest determined application, you
will have every reason in the world to rejoice to the
fullest extent of your ability. It is My Great Joy and
it has been My Request, that the Great Sanat Kumara
dictate to you, and He has been willing to do it.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 59
San a t K um ara
From Our Home in the World of Light, beloved
ones, We have watched the progress of humanity
through so many hundreds of thousands of years. T o­
day, We are finding many in whom We can expand
this Light. Yet, they are such a fragment of the com­
plete number of humanity.
To you, I decree the Ability, the Courage and the
. Confidence to make your Radiance become far more
powerful than even the spoken word, in being an
example and representative of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence” and the Ascended Masters. So will you, in
Our Great Love for you and your great Love for Us,
conduct yourselves ever in the future as Ambassadors
of Light? You are really. You may not quite under­
stand it yet, but We have made you such.
Will you notice this closely: When the Light within
the individual has expanded to a certain point, your
Great Presence says to Us: “ Now Your Opportunity
has arrived! Give all the Assistance that is possible to
My blessed ones.” When that Edict comes forth to
Us, every Ascended Master is instantly alert. They
look upon mankind, watching the expansion of your
Light; of your Light; of yours; and of yours; to see
where this Service may be rendered.
Why do you suppose there are Ascended Beings?
Why do you suppose I came from Venus more than
two and a half million years ago, to render this Serv-
A
6o ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
ice to mankind? Of Our own volition Venus offered
this Assistance to the earth.
If you are here for the first time, beloved ones, do
not think this is strange. Mankind knows so little
of the Inner operations of the Law of Life—of Being.
We would not utter a false word to you, any more
than the earth would stop its movement! When We
speak to you, We speak the Law of Life, the Truth
for your blessing!
I am quite aware that every one has free will; but
if that free will is not directed constructively, then
one reaps the result of the destructive qualities. There
is no escape! The Beloved Saint Germain has taken
upon Himself the trust, at this time to endeavor to
awaken enough of humanity; so the frightful destruc­
tion which would otherwise come upon the earth,
may be at least minimized and much of that destruc­
tive quality be governed. I assure you, that never in
the history of your earth, has such Assistance been
given by the children of earth.
Sometimes, I have watched your Great Groups
issuing these Mighty Decrees for the Freedom of
America and mankind. Then as you closed your serv­
ices, We have used this Mighty Energy. I know, unless
you saw as We are able to do, you could not compre­
hend that which I am going to say to you; but your
awareness of it is enough to make you realize that
your part of this Great Service is no idle thing. It is
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 61
no imaginary thing! It is a Mighty Activity. As this
force is gathered and projected forth, you have all
seen the magnificent results time and time again
from these Decrees.
The Great Presence of Life has always said: “ Com­
mand ye Me.” When this Great Presence, which is
the Law of Life, the Source of Life to every human
being, issues a Command, all the Universe obeys It
—but mankind. Beloved ones, it is not because you do
not want to; but because you do not yet understand
the importance of your guardianship of the Life,
which is given into your use. Do you know, that you
are only guardians of that Great Stream of Life which
flows into your body and out into your world? Your
bodies, these bodies, are not yet permanent, unless
you accomplish your Ascension. Physical bodies are
not permanent, for individuals lay them aside and
take up others many times.
Therefore, only as you hold your attention on your
Presence and call It into action with firmness will It
clear the substance—notice, the substance!—will It
clear the substance of your brain for attunement.
You understand how you tune the motors in your
automobiles when something is out of order, and it
makes them go more perfectly. Well, the brain of the
individual is but an instrument which must be quali­
fied and tuned to where the Finer Vibration from
your Presence and the Ascended Masters may act
62 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
through you consciously in the outer world’s activity.
You are moving constantly in these great magnifi­
cent Vibratory Activities; but the density of the
structure of your brain does not register them. That
is why, beloved ones, in your attention to your Pres­
ence, as the Currents of Light flow into and through
your brain, expanding the Light within every cell
of your body, this dissolving process goes on. The at-
tunement of the brain structure goes on; until clearer
and clearer comes the feeling of the Impulse from
the Presence through the Higher Mental Body. Thus,
the feeling causes you to follow out the Impulses from
your Presence clearly enough to produce Its Perfec­
tion in your world. Without this attunement, you
only get fragmentary promptings from your Presence.
Mankind quite often rebels at obedience to certain
simple things in Life; but that obedience means the
attuning of the brain structure. There are certain
habits of mankind which have prevented them re­
ceiving these Higher Vibratory Activities; that would
have given them the Knowledge they sought. Hun­
dreds and thousands of people have sought the Truth
of the Law of Life; but all the time they have con­
tinued the human habits which have created a density
within the brain structure that prevented them re­
ceiving This Truth. Therefore, humanity has only
received the Light of the Great Law at intervals and
then, only slightly.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 63
I say to you, beloved ones, that the use of tobacco
in any form produces a secretion in the brain which
will not permit its attunement beyond a certain point.
The use of meat will fill your atomic structure—now
notice this carefully—will fill your atomic structure
with fear. I cannot take time to go into the details of
this explanation, except to cite to you certain Laws,
just a fragmentary part of them.
If you waste your sex energy for pleasure gratifica­
tion, then you have carried out of your body the
Energy from the Presence which you must have; in
order to maintain the courage and strength, to call
the Presence into action and hold to It; until the
human qualities, which you have gathered about you
through the centuries, are dissolved and disappear.
Do you know in the sex energy which mankind wastes
are strength, courage and confidence? Did you ever
notice that people who waste this energy become fear­
ful, weak and filled with distrust and suspicion? Why?
Because, in the out-pouring of that Life, it wastes
the courage and strength which had already been
gathered within the feeling world of the individual.
In the waste of the sex energy, the individual throws
away his strength and courage, for that is what goes
out. The Liquid Light which flows through the
nerves contains the courage and strength of Life
which is feeling.
This is why the Messengers have explained to man-
64 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
kind the need for conserving the sex energy. It was
never intended for anything but the propagating of
the human form. The great mistake, which the sin­
ister force has seized upon, hypnotizing certain indi­
viduals and channels among mankind, has made
many believe the sex activity was just for gratification.
They have tried to use every possible excuse to make
individuals believe they could use it for pleasure and
still go on to Perfection. I say to you beloved ones:
that never, never, never can be! The encouragement
of that mistake, through various avenues and the ex­
cuses that many teachers have made because that de­
sire is strong within them, is the greatest tragedy be­
fore mankind today!
The Ascended Masters’ Wisdom is always of the
most practical nature. It is not extreme in any man­
ner; but it does give you the Understanding and the
Power of your Presence; to take out of your feeling
world all desires that are not there for your good.
All desires that are not for your good are but human
accumulation. They are the result and come from in­
formation gathered from the appearance world. It is
rarely, if ever correct!
Remember! unless your Intelligence is received
from this “ Great I AM Presence,” the Source of all
Life, how could it be correct? Mankind’s world is
filled with human opinions, in most cases not correct.
Therefore, if you want to be free, if you want to have
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 65
Perfection in your world; there is only one place from
which you can ever receive it and that is from your
own God Presence, the “ Mighty I AM .”
All of Us had to look wholly to It and sometimes
We long so much to inform mankind of the things
which they are doing that prevent the expansion of
their Light. We so long for them to be free. There
are so many of you precious ones, who have come
under this Radiation of Saint Germain in the past
two years, who are so ready for this Light. You are
so ready to be free! Just a little more determination
and firmness on your part, in holding to your Pres­
ence, would quickly take you through into your
Freedom.
Saint Germain asked Me today to bring this to you
in the Power and Radiation which I use, that you
might comprehend it clearly. May it cause you to let
go of all feeling, that you do not want to stop any
habit which longer binds you. If the sex desire is
strong within any one, do not fight it, but simply say:
“ ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ take out of me that desire
and replace it by your satisfaction and Perfection.”
Then keep on calling and go serenely on in your daily
activity. All of a sudden you will find it is gone. You
can use the same call to free yourself from the desire
for tobacco; the same with the desire for meat; the
same with the intoxicants mankind uses.
I say to you as the Messenger has said to you. We
66 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
have watched the operation and effect of alcohol,
whisky and all those things on mankind. They are
quite bad enough; but gin is the worst thing that
human beings can put into their bodies. It acts almost
wholly upon the generative organs and makes the
passions uncontrollable in individuals.
Now these are simple Truths, dear ones, which if
you want to be free, every one must accept and obey;
for they are the Great Law of Purity and Perfection.
Before the sinking of the last remnant of Atlantis, an
attempt was made to raise a whole Province of people
into Ascended Beings. Their blessings were brought
to the point where all they had to do, was sit at the
table and everything they required appeared before
them. The Great Master who did that, or who held
the focus for that Mighty Activity, spent many years
of effort to bring them to this point. No one lifted his
hand for a single thing. So far as their food, clothing
and shelter were concerned, all was provided for
them. Then, because the time had not yet come, when
the Cosmic Law permitted the Violent Consuming
Flame to be brought into the outer world for their
use; they in secret dwelt upon the sex desire; until
the rebellion in their feeling became so great within,
that the Great Master was compelled to withdraw.
They were so helpless without His Light that in­
structors from Atlantis had to be sent to teach them
self support.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 67
Now dear ones, you are many of those come again!
This time your Victory is sure, if you will give obedi­
ence to these Great but simple Laws. This is why
you must control your Life energy! It is not that you
should not use the sex activity for pro-creation of
your kind. That is quite all right, even if you have
attained a Great Height; but it is the waste of the
energy which is the tragedy to mankind! Your energy
is given to you to hold in your body, so you must have
it for use.
People have been taught the use of these various
things through the human sense consciousness; in­
toxicants, tobacco, meat and all such things. Now
what did it? Not mankind’s own desire; but the ac­
cumulated destructive qualities of humanity were
seized upon and used by those who had failed on the
pathway of Life. This is the thing which has bound
the mass.
I say to you in giving the entity Decree which you
use for seizing, binding and removing all entities
from the earth; you are rendering mankind one of
the most magnificent services in the Universe. I urge
you in all your Groups to issue that Decree for your
city, for your State, for your Nation, for all cities in
the United States of America and the world. The
Divine Director has offered you an Unparalleled
Service; if you will call to the “ I AM Presence” and
to Him, to release those Mighty Legions of Angels
68 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
of the Blue Lightning of Divine Love to render this
Service for the earth.
I am drawing your attention to these very vital
things today for a mighty reason—far more than you
know. If you will give obedience to these requests,
We will give every Assistance possible to you indi­
vidually, to your cities, the states and the Nation.
We do not want to see the people go through suffer­
ing, if it can be avoided; but if mankind rebels and
refuses to give obedience after such a definite explana­
tion has been given, then We must still wait. I have
waited such a long time. How do you suppose One
in My place feels, even though no human thought or
feeling ever touches within Me or My World? Yet
must I observe the failure of mankind through the
centuries.
After some great impulse within humanity has
lifted it, as in every Golden Age, to a great height;
where thousands and thousands became master of
themselves and their worlds, yet they failed. Through
the human desires, because the accumulated sinister
activity of mankind began to encroach upon them.
Finally the great mass gave way to it, and Our Work
was undone.
Today, the Great Cosmic Law, for the first time
throughout those hundreds and thousands of cen­
turies, has placed in your hands the only sustaining
Power there is in this Universe. It is your own God
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 69
Presence, your “ Mighty I AM .” This is the means by
which you gain your Victory and dissolve every
human accumulation and human desire. Your call
will set you free in the action of your Presence; first,
through the Higher Mental Body, which will govern
and direct you with amazing Wisdom; until such time
as you, in your call to the Presence and the expansion
of the Light within yourself, dissolve the density of
your body enough, for the earth to lose its attraction.
Then, you ascend out of all these limitations. How­
ever, it is imperative for you to do certain things.
I want to refer today to the activity of Mr. Raybom
and His Ascension; also that of David Lloyd and the
Others who have recently made their Ascension; for
the reason that there will be in the minds of many
the question: “ If they could receive Assistance with­
out much preparation, how is it that we cannot”?
Because in their Stream of Life, the expansion of
their Light made it possible for Our Assistance to be
given.
Most of mankind, having turned away at a former
time, having had great rebellion and disobedience in
their feeling, must through the conscious call to the
Presence dissolve their discordant accumulation.
Then, through earnest desire, they can raise them­
selves by the call to the Presence, to where they also
can be given Our Assistance. This is why all of you
today cannot be given the same Assistance which
70 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
David Lloyd, the Rayborn’s and the other gentleman,
who made His Ascension in the Cave of Symbols, re­
ceived. I want to make this so clear to you today, that
it will stop all questioning in your minds and settle
you down to definite firm, powerful application.
Beloved ones, as the Messenger has said to you so
powerfully and earnestly, during this class: the im­
perative need is harmony in your feelings, and then,
firm application and the calling of your Presence into
action, in the minutest detail of everything you re­
quire. In the smaller things you gain confidence.
Then, when you call for the greater, it will be done
quickly and easily. The “ Mighty I AM Presence”
knows no small nor great! but first and forever must
the outer self come into obedience. It cannot do so,
precious ones, unless you will maintain harmony in
your feelings long enough; to let—
notice, to let—the
activity within the atomic structure of your body be­
come purified enough, for this energy to sweep
through. Then, It can carry the remaining accumula­
tion out of your world without requalifying the en­
ergy before it can serve you.
There are so many of you today, who can maintain
harmony in your feelings. For your encouragement,
I say that the great majority in this room today can do
it. The only way you can sustain it, I mean by your
outer activity and consciousness, is to refuse to have
a single opinion about another human being. Then,
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 71
there will be no excuse for some disturbance starting
in your world.
I do not say this to flatter you, far from it, but
to give you the encouragement. Wonderful as you
have become, you do now have the strength, you have
the Power of Self-control; to refuse right this day, any
further concern or opinion about another human
being. You also have the strength, when discord comes
to you to say: “ We will not discuss that! no matter
who it is! Our part is to make the call to that one’s
“ Mighty I AM Presence” : to take such firm command
that the individual, even if he be making a mistake
will discontinue it.
Why do I explain this? Because you, who are so in
earnest have not yet clearly understood why, every
once in awhile, you allow yourselves to yield to that
critical habit. To some extent, when this happens
you are just undoing the work you have accomplished.
We do not want you to do that. We do not want you
to meet the discouragement which must come from
such a mistake. If you will control such things We can
give you the Strength, Courage or whatever is neces­
sary, to enable you to come up into the Vibratory
Action and Direction of your Presence. You will
know and receive definitely the constant Direction
of the Perfect Thing to do hourly. As Beloved Nada
has said, every movement—every moment, would be­
come the Perfect Service and Activity of the moment.
,
72 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
You must see that this is the only means by which your
Victory can come.
As long as there is agitation and disturbance in
your feeling world, there is nothing Perfect and per­
manent that can come through quickly. Then, when
mistakes occur, you feel the Law is not acting. Do
not blame anything or anybody for any limiting con­
dition, any disturbance but yourself. Then, you will
find it easy to refuse to have opinions about another.
Your world will stay in such a state of harmony that
the Law, the Power, the Light, the Energy, the Es­
sence will flow continually in all your activities. The
Condensed Energy from your Presence, as you are
prepared for it, will flow in and fill your Being. It will
flow through your nerves like a Liquid Light; and
once that begins to act, your struggle is practically
over.
Beloved ones, while I am talking to you, the Inner
Work is going on tremendously. Will you please ac­
cept it and determine to give complete obedience?
First, do not let anything enter your consciousness or
world which creates unkind feeling or disturbs the
feeling within you. If you do that, your feeling world
immediately begins to boil and whirl like that. (Mo­
tion of hand.) It is not possible for anything to come
forth clearly while that exists. It is not possible, for
the energy which exists in your feeling must take on
these qualities of disturbance.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 73
Simplicity is the Great Law of Life! Humbleness
is the means by which your Freedom comes! Every
person must take his own responsibility! Even the Ap­
pointed Messengers who were sent out had to take
their own responsibility. The Group Leaders all take
their own responsibility! These Messengers never say
to anyone what they shall do. If individuals want to
go forth and spread the Light, they must do it on their
own responsibility. Why is this so? Because the human
cannot always be depended upon! Unless they are
anchored firm enough in the Power of their Presence
to govern them, some outer condition will whirl them
into its vortex; and they will say and do things which
they would not do out of it. That is why the human
is not dependable.
The Messengers cannot take the responsibility, if
the human asserts itself and refuses to give obedience.
This is why, each one is wholly responsible for him­
self and to his Presence for what he does. Your Pres­
ence, your Higher Mental Body, is your only Judge,
and no human being should judge another. Your own
mistakes might be greater than the one you are judg­
ing; and to judge another for a seeming mistake,
might be far greater wrong than that which was being
judged; because to judge another is interference with
the free will of the individual, which may not be
done!
Just be firm in this Great Light, precious ones, for
74 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
your freedom is right here in this Light, which has
been called forth for your assistance. Most of you have
made your application very earnestly and sincerely.
That has not gone un-noticed. I could point to a few
who sometimes have been so discouraged; because
they allowed discord to enter into their feeling worlds.
They felt they were not progressing and thought:
“ Oh why can I not stop this thing?” You can! if you
determine to do it. Now with this added Assistance,
it will be easier for you.
Oh blessed ones, please understand that in this As­
sistance which is being given, you are almost being
carried on a golden platter, as it were. So much As­
sistance is being given. You do not see It as yet, but
one day you will. As your attention is called to these
things, you will become more and more alert. As you
discontinue the human desires, which have caused the
density or the dullness of the brain structure, you
must receive the finer Vibratory Action. There will
be no difficulty in doing so.
I think perhaps the Messengers have not mentioned
this. You have a nervous system, which carries the
Liquid Light from the Presence through your body;
but do you realize, that within the brain structure is
the activity which is the receiver and the distributor?
Your heart is the director of your consciousness, which
acts through the brain structure. If the consciousness
in the brain structure will give obedience to the
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 75
heart, all will move in Divine Order in its activity;
but if there is rebellion of the head to the heart, then
confusion ensues; because the Light—now notice this
—the Light from the heart is not able to illumine the
brain sufficiently, to dissolve the dense substance
which obstructs the way! These are marvelous things!
It all sounds quite simple, but the Life activity is very
marvelous in the accomplishment of your Victory, in
the perfecting of your body.
This is not intended to make any one dissolve his
home or anything of that kind; but under the Great
Cosmic Law, no human being has a right to bind an­
other. This understanding should draw people more
lovingly and harmoniously together; but if there be
one who is ugly and rebellious, then that one should
not be allowed to limit someone else. If you will call
earnestly, with firm determination to your Presence,
to take command of your home and the individuals
there; seize and bind the human and dissolve all dis­
cordant feeling or selfishness within the feeling world
of the individual; the Presence will govern every­
thing. All will then come into perfect harmonious ac­
cord; but you must in that case refuse to give power
any longer to appearances which seem to exist there.
This is why many do not feel they are having the full
results; because unknowingly in the feeling they are
still accepting the appearances.
In the momentum which has been gained, even in
76 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
this Life, where you have been very critical or subject
to anger and such conditions; it takes firmness at first,
to make such a condition quickly subside. I ask you to
look upon this good brother. As he has told you, he
had acquired a very fiery temper. Even though it had
gained a momentum for three years or more, yet he
was able to speedily dissolve it, by the use of the
Violet Consuming Flame and annihilate its cause and
effect.
Every one must be so in earnest, that the Light
comes first in everything. As the beloved Messenger
just told you: in the beginning, dear ones, if you will
give enough adoration, gratitude and attention to
your Presence, you will find every problem in the
outer world solved quickly; but if your attention is
on the solving of the problem, then the problem is
getting the greatest part of your attention; and also
the greatest amount of your energy. You make the call
to the Presence for a few moments and the rest of the
time your attention is on your problem. Through
fear, anxiety or some phase of activity, you are con­
stantly disturbed by the very nature of the problem.
Do you not see that? Therefore, to your problems or
to those conditions which confront you that seem to
be disturbing or sometimes almost terrifying; still
yourself! and in the knowledge of your Presence know
It is All-powerful. Speak to yourself and say: “ Stop
this agitation! Be quiet! Be calm” ! Then, when you
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 77
begin to feel still, say: “ ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ I
call on the Law of Forgiveness for these mistakes.
You take command here, solve these problems and
keep my attention on You until it is done, until it is
fully accomplished.” That is the proper mode of ap­
plication, dear ones; but you must be firm and hold
your attention on the Presence, even when the prob­
lems are screaming at you out here! You know mo­
mentum is a tremendous thing! and yet, people know
so little about it.
The constant pouring of water will wear away the
hardest rock. The rock seems much harder than the
water does it not? Yet the water will wear away the
hardest rock. Today, your momentum of destructive
qualities has almost worn you out. Not because it had
any power, but because you gave it power by your
attention, which fed your Life into it.
Now then, We will reverse it. Notice, I speak it for
you! You have become a part of Me, while I am speak­
ing these Words! We will reverse all this condition
and say to all these appearances, whatever the con­
ditions may be: “ You have no power! No longer do I
feed my Life into you to give you power! Now that
point is settled.” Then, “ ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ I
have called on the Law of Forgiveness for all my mis­
takes. You take command of me and my world! hold
such Dominion, such control of my feelings that I
joyfully—notice—give obedience to your slightest re-
78 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
quirement. You see, that I do give that obedience.”
Then, you place the Greatest Power in the Universe
in charge of your feeling world; to govern it and see
that you do give obedience; when possibly of your
own volition, you would not be able to do it.
These things are so mighty, dear ones, to set you
free, if you will believe Me; if you will accept it; if
you will apply it; but do not forget what I have said to
you! If you do not obey, then to that degree, you will
make it impossible for Us to give you the Assistance
which has been promised. You can choose to follow
My Request, or you can say: “Very well, I shall fol­
low my own.” It is quite all right, but those who fol­
low My Request will stand as a Beacon Light before
the world!
No achievement, beloved ones, of any human being
was ever accomplished without Our Help. Nothing of
importance was ever done in this world without some
one of the Ascended Masters assisting. That is why
We come here. Do you think, that from Our Great
Heights of Attainment, even the Great Cosmic Beings
forget the earth in its shadows? Why has the earth
been called the dark star? Because of human discord­
ant creation which becomes darkness. This is why
the Messengers have said to you, never contemplate
or meditate in darkness. Many think: what about it
when we think of the Presence during the night,
while we sleep?
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 79
May I try to make it plain to you? The difference
between conscious determination to do a thing in
darkness and the natural state of night-time in which
you sleep are two very different things. Your con­
scious action and determination, to sit in darkness
for meditation or for manifestation is your choice.
God, nature, has provided the condition of night, in
order to give the bodies of mankind quiet and rest;
so that the Reality of the individual could go out from
the body, gather the energy and bring it back in the
morning; to give the necessary strength and activity
to the body, to go on for the natural span of Life. That
is a provision by Nature to maintain the balance of
energy in the physical body.
Why were day and night established in the begin­
ning? It was not always so. But why were day and
night, as you experience them now, provided? Be­
cause of the density into which mankind drew their
human forms. Some means had to be provided, so they
could have quiet; or shall I say be compelled to re­
ceive the quiet and rest. There are those, who in the
attention to the Presence, require little sleep in com­
parison to what they formerly did; but let Me sound
a call and warning: do not go to extremes in this. You
had better have a little more rest than you need, than
to let your great desire for the Light deprive you of
the rest, which you need to hold harmony in your
feeling world.
8o ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
These are very simple, but mighty practical things,
dear ones! Today, We are taking advantage of this,
that you may have the most practical use of the Mighty
Light and Its Perfection which it is possible to con­
vey in Words. Therefore, as these simple Words are
spoken to you, still a far greater work is going on from
the Inner standpoint and We are calling your at­
tention to It. If you will accept It as already accom­
plished, you will have rendered yourself and Us a
tremendous service. Then, when you go into the
outer world, do not allow any person, place or con­
dition to change the decision within you.
Keep everything to yourself and your God. I ask
you not to discuss with each other what I have said to
you today; but just feel It, with a joy and accomplish­
ment within you; as a sacred Gift from your Presence
which is too sacred to even discuss. If you will do this,
then We can do so much more for you.
In the fulness of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
and through the Higher Mental Body of each one of
you, I call your Presence into action; to take up these
Activities which I have established today and to set
your Higher Mental Body guard over this accom­
plishment. I cannot explain to you the details of it,
but I have said enough to give your attention the
power to act. Therefore, We now accept the fulness
of this in its action for you. If you will give Me your at­
tention, for just a few moments each night before you
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 8i
go to sleep, I will appreciate it; that this may continue
in Its ever expanding Activity, that you all might com­
prehend fully just what It means to you and your
Freedom!
In My parting Words to you, Oh Children of the
Light, Oh precious ones from the Heart of God:
“ Mighty Unfed Flame! do your Perfect Work for the
children of earth. As their call has gone forth and will
continue; release from the Power of the Unfed
Flame all that is required for the control, for the
Perfecting Activity of all that each one requires.
Cause these beloved ones to feel and remember the
Instruction that was once given them; so they may
establish—call the Presence to establish, the Unfed
Flame in their homes. Let this be in a place where It
will not be disturbed; where each one may see that
Unfed Flame; for, It is there! pouring forth Its Radi­
ance. Each one may do that! Choose your own spot.
Consider it the most sacred thing! Tell none but your
loved ones who are in Perfect Harmony with the idea!
and then, go on and receive from that Flame Its Great
Perfection.
In the fulness of the Perfection which We have
called forth. We rest: in Joy and in the Mightiest Ac­
tion of the Great Silence, that the fulness of Its Per­
fection may take command of all things. Glorify each
one with the full Power of the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence.” to hold Its Dominion; until everything of the
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
82
outer world is dissolved and disappears. Then, in Its
fulness, release them entirely into their Eternal
Freedom.
I thank you and want you to know that My Love en­
folds you every one, unto the fulness of your Victory.
I thank you.
C Y C L O P E A ’ S D I S C O U R S E
NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK
OCTOBER lO, 1 9 3 7
B
Y T H E Command of the Great Cosmic Light,
We who have long acted within the Great
Silence, come to pour forth to mankind the
Assistance that is needed today.
I think most of you understand the Activity which
I represent is the All-seeing-eye of God, the All­
hearing-ear of God. Those, who wish to have greater
Perfection of sight and hearing or know of those ab­
sent who need that Assistance; while I am flashing
the Words before this good Messenger tonight, direct
your attention to such individuals, carrying on it
your Current of Divine Love. Upon it, I will pour
forth to them My Assistance.
Remember! you are not limited, except in your
human concept! Remember! as the Great Ones have
said to you in almost all recent Dictations; Our Great
Opportunity in speaking Our Wishes to you is: that
We may at the same moment act within the mental
and feeling world of mankind to produce Perfect re­
sults; or put forth the Words in which We wish to
give Assistance to mankind. So will you be conscious
of that tonight?
83
84 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
Within the All-seeing-eye of God; within the All­
hearing-ear of God is the means, by which individuals
may understand their position as Out-posts of the
God-head. Each one of you is a Focus of that Presence
whereveryou move.To thedegree, that you keepyour-
selves harmonious, call forth and pour out the Activ­
ity from your Presence; do you bless or mar the Great
Perfection which is always endeavoring to come forth.
Let Us take up tonight, your great obligation to
your fellow-man and to your associates. If you pour
forth inharmonious radiation to others, then to some
degree, you are responsible for the imperfection
which might be governing them. This is one of the
reasons, why the Great Ones have asked all the stu­
dents to maintain Self-control and be free from criti­
cism, condemnation, judgment, hatred, anger,
jealousy, resentment or whatever it may be; because
you are responsible dear ones! Suppose that someone
were beset by just a tinge of jealousy and someone else
noticed it. Then, two or more people begin to pour
forth their feeling about it to the individual; or hold
their attention on that quality. If they begin to discuss
it and say: “ Now that individual is unfortunate in
feeling jealous,” and keep putting forth such an ac­
ceptance or suggestion; soon they have piled upon the
individual, more of the same quality, until it will
make it very difficult for that one to handle it, even in
his call to the Presence.
m I B m
m
K
B
m ■
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 85
It is the same with any quality which others ob­
serve and begin to pour out to someone. Dear people,
remember! the feeling world of mankind is one over
the whole earth! You cannot get away from that
Truth! Therefore, individuals are responsible to
each other. Humanity has not understood this except
in a fragmentary manner; but you, knowing this
Great Law as you do today, become still more respon­
sible.
The greatest thing on earth is the Power of Light
acting in the Group of Students, who have This
Understanding. If they see one being submerged in
any particular difficulty; for instance, the feeling of
depression, anger, jealousy, hatred or any of those
qualities which shut off the Light from the Presence;
then, the great Godlike thing to do would be to pour
forth blessing, strength and courage to help the indi­
vidual to overcome it; but mankind heretofore has
not understood this. Therefore, the condemnation
of humanity has been very great.
The “ I AM ” Students are freeing yourselves very
rapidly. You will find, for it is rapidly approaching,
that when you have attained certain definite Self-
control over your feeling world; We can begin to
bring forth Information and Understanding from the
Realms of Light, which each time you listen to It,
will lift and anchor you into It; remaining with you
forever. It is only the intellect which forgets. The
86 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
heart never does! The All-seeing-eye of God within
you, within your brain, never forgets! The thing
which has been the difficulty with mankind, is when
the intellect is operating. The activity of retaining
the wrong suggestion within the brain structure is
what has made it difficult to forget the things that
you should. Today, you are coming to understand
how to govern and regulate that; so you can forget
the things you want to; and remember only the things
which are constructive.
I am sure you will rejoice with Me in the expansion
of the Light within each one. I much prefer to use
the term “ expansion” than progress or achievement
or any other terminology. The Truth of Life is really
all in the expansion of the Light within your own
heart, in the call to your “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
When this Light has expanded enough within your
heart, It illumines the mind, and the brain. In other
words, It quickens the vibratory action within the
brain, by the expansion of the Light within the heart;
until the brain in its alertness comprehends with al­
most the speed of lightning. This is how the Ascended
Master can render such tremendous Service.
I am reminded, that the Good Messenger neglected
to explain to you the manner of these Dictations. If
there are those who are not familiar with it, then I
wish to explain. The Words are flashed before the
physical eyes of this good Messenger by Whoever is
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 87
dictating. There is nothing psychic nor spiritualistic
about it! Please remember that! This Work is wholly
free from anything of that kind and always will re­
main so! It is but the natural process and activity of
Life which is within every human being. In the years
ahead, after the great change; there will be thousands
of people in America who will be able to receive in
this same manner. This Activity leaves no question.
We dictate the exact Words We wish to use, convey­
ing Our Feeling and meaning to you. No human con­
cept can enter into this manner of presenting Our In­
formation and Wishes to you.
I ask all students and Group Leaders throughout
America, to please explain this to your people; so
that they do not misunderstand; because it has been
spread about that This Work is psychic. It is no such
thing! It never was and never could be! If It were, it
could not have reached the expansion which It has
today.
The so-called psychic world or astral world exists
from the earth’s surface to approximately seven thou­
sand feet above. Within that octave is all the human
discord which has ever been generated on earth by
mankind, through thousands of centuries, in which
people have lived upon earth. All should understand
that human beings have lived upon the earth for
more than four million years. The first two Golden
Ages were magnificent during which there was no
88 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
imperfection. As mankind began to claim the Power
of the Presence into the human self and turned the
thought downward, it drew about them the density;
which shut in—notice the expression—
which shut in
the Light which had previously made their bodies
luminous.
Before the density was drawn around the body,
as far as the hands could reach there was a Self-
luminous Radiance, visible to the outer sight of every­
one. Then people could not practice deception of any
kind; because there in the Radiance about them was
the Truth; for the color in the Radiance which they
poured forth was the indication to all of what was in
their thought and feeling.
Today, in the Octave of the Ascended Masters,
They communicate great distances by flashing Their
Light to each other. They converse far more by the
Radiance, than they do by the actual spoken Word.
Such is the province—the natural province of man­
kind. Humanity is now coming home again into that
same great ease and Perfection. Because of the density
of the physical body, Life in the outer world has been
a tremendous struggle which was wholly unnecessary.
The density of the body and the discord came about,
when mankind crossed the dividing line.
I presume some of you are familiar with the ori­
ental terminology which has referred to the dividing
line so often used, as the “ Bridge of Light.” That
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 89
Bridge is the Pathway from the human octave into the
Octave of Light. It is symbolized and used a great
deal by those in the orient, who are advanced. Today,
you have the full knowledge of that Bridge and how
to cross it; not within the expressions or terminology
which you do not understand; but in the Knowledge
of your own Glorious “ I AM Presence.” The Bridge
stands open before you to cross at any time, any mo­
ment, into the Octave of Light and there receive the
Glory which belongs to you.
About seventy-five percent of the “ I AM ” Students
under Saint Germain’s Radiation—
-I mean those who
are loyal, earnest and sincere, every night when their
bodies sleep, go into those Octaves of Light and re­
ceive the Strength, the Instruction, the Glory and the
Blessing which is there. Just yet, you have not re­
tained or brought into the outer memory much of
it; but one day you will bring it forth in its fulness,
in its completeness. Then how happy you will be to
finish your work of the day, lie down and go forth
into the Realms of Light.
Most of mankind would rather lay the body down
and go out into the Realms of Light! but that may not
be yet; because all must raise themselves out of the
conditions and limitations into which they have
drawn themselves. You understand, blessed ones, the
only person who can draw you into limitation is your­
self. Perhaps I should qualify that. In the present
go ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
position of mankind today, there is more than just
yourself acting around you. Because of the earth-
bound individuals, who attach themselves or try to
attach themselves to mankind; you have more to
handle than just your own activity. However, that is
nothing about which to be disturbed. You are just
moving among those things which have to be handled.
Remember, nothing can enter your world, except
you invite it. How do you do that? By the power of
your attention! Do you actually realize, beloved ones,
that through the power of your attention, you invite
into you and your world whatever your attention or
discussion is upon? That is a tremendous thing! it has
not been understood, yet it is within your understand­
ing and control. You do not have to accept anything
you do not want; by radiation, projected thought,
feeling or whatever the force may be that is acting.
You do not have to accept it, just because it happens
to be projected.
You have the Scepter of Power in your Tube of
Light and the use of the Violet Consuming Flame.
All who use that will find themselves immune, so to
speak, from the discord of the outer world; but you
must be firm in it! You cannot waver in your feeling.
In the old terminology one would have said, “ in your
thought consciousness” ; but I say to you, your feeling
is the greatest thing in your world to be watched and
governed.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 9 >
Remember, I represent the All-seeing-eye of God
to the earth! Therefore, I know what it means! Man­
kind for hundreds of years has been taught an attempt
at control of the thought; but no human being ever
did, or ever will control his thought, who does not
control the feeling first. It is not possible! because the
feeling is your Power-house, and unless that is regu­
lated the thought will express what is in the feeling!
Today, you are having placed in your hands the
Scepter of your own Dominion, Self-control and
power of manifestation. In other words, the calling
forth of the Power of the Presence, to produce Per­
fection in you and your world.
Do not, I plead with you, once again ever give
power to the appearance world! Now notice why! for
We never leave anything unexplained. All the En­
ergy of your activity, your feeling world and your
thought world, comes from your Presence; of Itself
It would produce Perfection and maintain it; but
through your Power of Qualification, you have the
authority and the power to change It, or in other
words to clothe It. That is what produces the quality
in the feeling world of the individual. The remedy for
all re-qualification of discord is harmony maintained
in the feelings. Then, your call to the Presence will
cause that energy to flow forth in Its Purity—in Its
greatest Power and speed of Perfection. This is the
need today. The reason for all manifested things
92 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
is to understand not only in the intellect; but in the
feeling. All good that goes forth is compelled to come
from your Presence; for there is nowhere else from
which it can come.
Let us for a moment cover a great scope. You know
you have all the magnificent mechanical perfection
which you experience and enjoy, in its almost endless
ramification and expression. Yet all of that came from
this Wondrous Presence which beats each human
heart. The Intelligence, the Energy, the Love, the
Wisdom and the Power had to come from there to
produce it. The Doctors, the Osteopaths, the Chiro­
practors, all of the limitless avenues of endeavor to
give assistance; all the energy and Intelligence they
use comes from this “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Notice
how very logical, natural and practical it all is. When
you come to know this, why not turn to the Presence
wholly and let the Mightiest Power of the Universe
flow through; to purify, perfect, harmonize and sus­
tain you—the Temple of God?
The great chemical laboratories of the outer world
produce such magnificent things, metals and every
conceivable material which has blessed mankind.
Yet within the human form is the greatest chemical
laboratory in the world; and no outer scientist as yet.
has ever been able to quite re-produce it. Do you not
see then how, as you turn to the Presence, you can
receive all Perfection, express and experience it; be-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 93
cause It has been drawn here at your point of expres­
sion, at your Focus of Light?
Try to feel for a few moments that you, in your
consciousness through your physical body, are the
greatest Focus on earth of the Perfection of the Uni­
verse; which is your Presence. Understand that your
attention turned to the Presence brings Its Perfection
forth; impels It into action. Your body is the focus
and there is no limit to the Perfection It can express.
Try to feel this now! There is nothing in this world
that can limit you, but your own feeling. If you will
accept this tonight in your feeling, you will find great
changes taking place within your world; within your
Power-house, which is the accumulated energy that
you have called forth.
Remember, beloved ones, you can charge the
atmosphere around you. We often speak of it as being
as far as your hands will reach, but that is not your
limit. You may expand it twenty, fifty or one hundred
feet about you easily, quite as readily. Then, your
Radiance wherever you move can be a Mighty heal­
ing Presence.
The Great Ones recently have been trying to hold
your attention upon your ability to release the Power
of the Presence; to produce health and Perfection in
your bodies; because that is one of the great needs to­
day. As long as you are disturbed by a feeling of dis­
tress within the body; you cannot give the clear con-
94 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
centrated attention to the Presence, which would
bring rapid results. When I say “constant attention,’’
I do not mean every moment of the day; but during
the time that you are giving definite attention to your
Presence, do not let anything interfere with it.
If you want to sit down five minutes or ten minutes
and give your whole attention to your Presence, do it!
and do not let anything interfere with it. That is what
I mean by your constant attention; because it must be
unwavering during the time you hold your attention
on your Presence, so It can produce the greatest re­
sults. Remember, if you took a reading glass and
focused the Light of the sun upon a given spot; if it
is held still, it will set the outer substance on fire.
If you hold your attention with that same steady focus
to the “ Mighty I AM Presence” ; then Its Power will
flood forth very quickly to produce the Perfection for
you; but if you move the glass about and keep moving
the Focus of Light, it would not produce any par­
ticular result. So it is with mankind today, in the
seeming inability to hold the attention steady. In­
dividuals have not had the full result which they
would like or expect to have.
By practice you become perfect. You practice music
for many years to become as you term it a professional
musician. If you would practice the Presence with the
same tenacity, you would be Perfect Beings in ten
years. What would that mean? You would express all
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 95
Perfection in music or anything else that you wished
to express.
As you clear away all human concepts between you
and your Presence, everything comes forth clear as
crystal. You know, as one of the students has said, the
only thing which stands between your heart and
your Presence is your head; and your head is where
the intellect functions with its human concepts.
When you understand that and say: “ Now subside!
‘Mighty I AM Presence’! take command! and see that
my heart is the Power which acts and make the intel­
lect be obedient to it.” Then, you will find all dif­
ficulties in your Life’s experience vanish.
Now, follow Me for a few moments in your memory
and record this definitely. We speak of the Ascended
Masters definitely because that is the first step to the
fulness of Perfection. When you have raised the
purified physical body into the higher mental body,
then into the Electronic Body of the Presence and
become the Ascended Being; that is your first step
into the fulness of Perfection. Therefore, We refer to
the Ascended Master as the first step out of a ll-
notice—all imperfection; because the Ascended
Master has no imperfection of any kind in Him.
If you clearly understand that, and the heart does,
then you will feel the fulness of this Mighty Truth,
which will lead you into the fulness of your Perfec­
tion. Remember! that all achievement is through
96 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
your attention to your Presence, which allows It to
do the work. Light is the Father of the Universe, the
only Doer! Think of it! Think of it, beloved ones!
You today, in your physical bodies have come to know
the Godhead! Is it not ridiculous, that individuals
have been taught that mankind cannot see God and
live? How ridiculous! There are hundreds of the
blessed students who have already seen their own “ I
AM Presence,” which is the Godhead! so far as their
individual world and Life is concerned. Now you see
the closeness of It. You see how practical It is. It is
your very Life. The Stream of Life and Energy, Pu­
rity and Perfection which floods into your heart is the
Activity of the Godhead; containing within It the
Trinity of action, Love, Wisdom and Power.
The Three-fold Flame of Life will become visible
to mankind! It will be the Manifested Presence of the
Godhead in the physical octave. This has always oc­
curred. in the Perfecting Activity of every civilization
which has ever been on earth, and will come again in
this one. If mankind will be patient, until enough
individuals have been raised to where these things
can come forth; they will see the out-picturing of It
all. Not only will there come forth that for which you
have been calling individually; but you will see the
great Out-pouring of the Cosmic Activity, which be­
comes the physical manifestation on earth. It is the
Three-fold Flame!
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 97
Again, there will come forth the Unfed Flame.
This time in Its constructive consuming Activity. Be­
fore the sinking of the last remnant of Atlantis, the
consuming Activity of the Unfed Flame was visible
to all. It is much preferred to your present cremation.
The Flame stood motionless and when the body was
placed in it, just disappeared instantly. It is the
greatest service that ever was rendered to mankind.
This will come again! Then the cemeteries will dis­
appear from the earth! and what a blessing!
I am endeavoring to cover a great scope tonight,
because of the need. Think of it, dear ones, and re­
member what the power of your attention does.
Then, think of precious humanity in its lack of Un­
derstanding, going into those grave yards and weep­
ing, feeling that their loved ones are there; when they
have gone into the Octave of Light. Where the Life
was clothed with depravity and did not permit them
to leave the earth, the Ascended Masters have been
removing them at the call of the Students. In the case
of the ordinary Life, the individual goes into the
Octave of Light immediately as soon as respiration
stops. Think! of all the energy and grief wasted upon
that spot of earth where the wornout garment was
laid.
Oh dear ones, do not ever subject yourselves to
those things again. The human form from which
Life has passed is no longer yours. It is no longer your
98 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
loved one. It is just the same, as when you discard a
garment that is no longer useful to you. So it is with
the body; but it does not mean that your loved one is
still there in the body. There is no death! Never was!
Never can be in the whole Universe! All is Life and
Its eternal expression and manifestation. Remember
that. Remember as you observe the Chart, the Stream
of Life and energy is all Perfection, all Purity, all of
everything which you will require and is eternal.
Remember, that between your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” which is your Electronic Body, and your flesh
body is the Higher Mental Body. When Life with­
draws from the physical body at so-called death; It
withdraws into the form of the Higher Mental Body
and goes on in Its Activity of Life. The human form
which a few moments before had Life and activity
does not have It any longer.
Remember, tonight, I want to hold your attention
upon your Stream of Energy and bring to you this
Mighty Truth; which is the evidence to any human
being on earth who wishes to understand why this is
so. All the faculties, all the organs which were active
a few moments before death are still in the body. The
Intelligence that acted within the brain and heart
has gone. All the organs are still there; but the body is
no longer able to use them. Therefore the Intelli­
gence has withdrawn!
Now notice! in the Stream of Energy from the Pres-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 99
ence which came through the head, anchoring within
the heart, of that human form, was the Life, the Light,
the Substance, the Intelligence, the Energy, the Ac­
tivity and the Supply of everything which the body
used before it lost its activity. Remember! its Activity
was the Stream of Light and Energy. Then do you
not see how there is no such thing as death? The
Stream of Life, which is Light and Energy, withdrew
from the garment that had become useless, and left
it to disintegrate. The Intelligence and Life which
withdrew into the Higher Mental Body, will project
another body and try again to bring Perfection into
the outer form. Why? I think I shall ask a few ques­
tions Myself. Why has mankind not understood? Why
has mankind accepted the opinions of others? Be­
cause individuals have forgotten their Source.
When you have come back to your own “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” which is the Greatest Intelligence in
the Universe; train yourself as speedily as possible to
hold your attention upon the Presence; with sufficient
earnestness and determination until It releases the
information, the revelation. I do not quite like to use
that term, because it has been worn thread-bare. The
Truth is that the expansion of the Light from within
your heart, is the Activity which illumines all to you.
Try for a moment with Me to feel, that within the
Stream of Light and Energy from the Presence is
every quality of everything you wish to bring forth,
ioo ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
into your use or manifestation in the physical world.
Every form, here before you in the physical octave,
came from the one Universal Substance of Light
A v h ic h is Light-Substance.
You might challenge Me in that and say: “ Well the
Godhead must be pretty dense.” Not so, the density
is within the qualification of mankind, not in the
Godhead; not in the Self-luminous Intelligent Sub­
stance. Density is in man’s discordant qualification
which you see in the outer world of form.
In your bank vaults today which are even twelve to
eighteen inches thick of solid steel; Light will pene­
trate through that steel and make visible what is
within. For instance, when the Lord Maitreya, Sanat
Kumara, the Lord the Maha Chohan and the Tall
Master from Venus dictated; the substance of the
building so far as They are concerned disappears from
above the Messenger. It is not there really. You still
see it in the physical sense; because you are vibrating
in the substance to which you are accustomed; but
in reality there is nothing between Myself and you.
as I stand here, directing the dictation to the Messen­
ger. This Light floods from My position all over
the audience. That is how the Light penetrates all
substance. So far as the Light and Intelligence acting
within it are concerned, the substance is not there.
Do you follow Me dear hearts? I want you to so
much; because it will remove from your feeling and
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 0 1
consciousness all sense of limitation. You really are
not limited in what the Presence will do for you at
your call, so be very careful. Watch carefully over
your feelings, so you do not limit the Power of your
Presence to act either with speed or in accomplish­
ment.
We rejoice, as We see the comprehension within
the individuals coming closer, closer, and closer, to
the fulness in the feeling of these simple Majestic
Truths. We want you to understand definitely that in
voicing the Decrees as you do, all is a definite activity
of the Law of Life. As you utter those Decrees, which
are commands, it is the Command of Life to produce
Its Perfection here. Beloved ones, once you can feel
the Power of a single decree in the fulness of its action,
you will never find another limitation in the world.
It is a far different thing when you assert a human
opinion. It has no particular activity! It may interest
or impress you for the time being, but there is no
permanent action; but when you voice words which
contain the Truth of Life, you have This Understand­
ing set into action. It is the Law of Life set into action
to produce the result which the Decree expresses.
That is why the beloved students of America and the
world are rendering the Great Host of Light and the
Messengers inestimable service; as well as yourselves,
because this Ascended Master Instruction is the great­
est requirement today.
102 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
The Messengers were strong enough to carry this
Message of Light, until enough of mankind could
grasp it. Then, they began to bring forth the Decrees,
by which they could cause to act in the mental and
feeling world of mankind these magnificent activities;
which set into action the Great Laws of Life, to pro­
duce Perfection in the world, in the physical octave of
mankind.
It is so magnificent! You and beloved humanity are
so privileged today to enter into this Great Stream of
Life, Light, Substance, Energy and Intelligence. It is
the Greatest Power in the Universe, and you have Its
use! Can you conceive of anything more beautiful,
anything more helpful? In fact It is the only thing that
can or will set mankind free!
Your Presence, the Governor of the Universe has
projected you, think of it! Your Presence has pro­
jected you. Not quite, now notice! It has projected
the Light pattern, upon which your human structure
is built. That is what your Presence projected, not the
limitations which you express and which came from
your Power of Qualification.
Notice! Notice! how this Wondrous Presence, your
Source of Life started out. It gave you every opportu­
nity to be Its Perfection! Yet because of the impact of
the human world, the physical octave, after two or
three years you began to take on the qualities about
you and became the same density as those about you.
ASCENDED M A ST ER L IG H T 103
I want to say something at this point almost star­
tling! If you were to take an infant of average parents
and hold that child within an Invincible Tube of
Light, with no human discord expressed in the feel­
ing of the world about it, that child would never
know one single imperfection. The Light from its
own Light Pattern would cause its body to retain the
Self-luminous activity which is within the Light Pat­
tern; for the Light Pattern is really composed of the
points of Light within every cell of the body. Not so
long hence, this will be proved definitely to the world.
There is coming into use—I may not describe it as
yet—that which will be a protection automatically;
for It will hold a Radiance of Its Own and prove this
to the world.
During these three years of the Messengers’ activ­
ity, especially those who were critical, have said: why
do they not prove some of these things? The Infinite
Proof is being given every day of mankind’s Life!
Those unfortunate minds do not want to see it, of
course; but further than that, do not weary, beloved
ones. Beside your own proof, there will come into the
outer activity of the world the Proof, that no human
mind or concept on the face of the earth can deny.
Then, these unfortunate creatures who have such in­
tellectual vanity will find their balloons punctured;
and in humbleness come into the Presence of the
Light.
104 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
Remember! it is only your head where the intellect
with its human concepts act, that stands between
you and Perfection. Having accepted opinions by the
million, human concepts of things, the intellect has
not given the Truth. However, if people refuse
human concepts of the things they see about them
and obey the direction of the Light within the heart,
they should very soon reach Perfection. Without
obedience to the Light in the heart, they are building
more and more of the imperfection which comes
through human concepts and lack of understanding.
Obedience to the Light is all that is required.
You were informed this noon of all that had been
accomplished in three years. Then, you must know
how true My Words are to you tonight and how ap­
plicable in your Life. Allow Me to assert to you again,
beloved ones (pointing to the Chart) behold that
Wondrous Stream of Light! In It is all Perfection for
you. Your heart is the anchorage of the Light in these
physical bodies, No one who is sane can deny that. Do
you not see, precious ones, even by intellectually
knowing of this Presence, soon in Its acceptance there
would come the full power of this Truth into the feel­
ing; because in that Stream of Light is all Perfection
for you. You are connected with It; therefore, you are
a part of the Light. It only needs the control of your
Power of Qualification and Its proper use; the silenc­
ing or the dis-continuing of the acceptance of discord;
ASCENDED M A ST ER L IG H T 105
to let the Stream of Light of Its own volition produce
health, youth and Perfection in the body.
Tonight, as I look within you—should I ask your
permission? I just cannot help it. I have to. I see there
the whole picture of your Eternal Youth. Just now as
I look within you, I do not see your outer forms. I see
Eternal Youth within you. Please accept It fully, that
I may see It strong enough to cause It to out-picture.
Let Me cause you to feel Eternal Youth acting with
full power, so you may sing and speak with the Voice
of your Presence, never again interfered with by
anything.
I am going to say another thing, please feel it! Do
you realize, beloved ones, the power that is within
your voices? Dear people, certain low vibratory tones
in your voices would produce tremendous results.
The time is not far off, when Saint Germain will take
this up and bring out these things to you. Dear peo­
ple. We cannot go on farther, until you grasp and
maintain control over your feelings. Then, We will
be able to give you all your hearts desire. You must
first understand your “ Mighty I AM Presence’’! Its
limitless application! your own Self-control! Then,
you will see the heavens open and without limit,
there will pour forth this Mighty Information about
all the forces of Life. Then, you will have forgotten
the discord, and as you enter into the Great Stream
of Perfection, you will see how great is This Truth.
io6 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
I look within the individuals here tonight, many
of the very earnest sincere students in New York,
Boston and those visiting from elsewhere; and see the
Presence of Eternal Youth ready to burst Its bounds
and stand forth victorious within each one! Oh dear
ones, do not let the appearance of years affect you!
because that appearance is only on your physical
body. It could not stay there very long, if you just felt
your own Dominion. It would have to disappear and
take on the Perfection which is your Light pattern.
We long to bring into the understanding of the
youth of America this Great Truth, that they may at
once discontinue the acceptance of age from the ap­
pearance world. There are thousands and thousands
of elderly people in America today, who will cause
the appearance of age to disappear from their bodies.
Please accept this and let It do Its Perfect Work.
We do nothing phenomenal in this Great Expan­
sion of Light; but We are holding everything steady,
building a Foundation which all humanity cannot
shake apart. We could do many wonderful things
within certain individuals; but We are building a
Foundation for humanity now!
Each one who steps upon that Firm Rock of the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” will find Its Perfection, Its
Eternal Dominion within him and his world of ac­
tivity. This is how and why We want you today to feel
the full Power, the Authority which is yours. Do you
ASCENDED M A ST E R LIG H 'l 107
wonder why the Great Ones have so often spoken
those Words to you? That is because you are the
decreer of how this energy shall act for you, which you
call forth from the Presence. It is why you are the
authority, because you are the only one who can say
what shall be done.
We might want to do wonderful things, but We
must have your call; We must know and of course
We always do, the motive back of that call. If you
wanted to be beautiful just to be vain, of course We
would not assist you; but if you wanted to be beauti­
ful to be the example of Perfection, then it would be
wonderful; and every Assistance would be given. Oh,
there is nothing wrong about being beautiful. It is
really what is intended, you gentlemen included.
Oh dear ones, what a wonderful thing when man­
hood and womanhood begin to express the Real
Beauty and Perfection of Life. Oh, it is so marvelous!
But what happens today, when one is unusually beau­
tiful? Be careful! Many of mankind are unfortunate
enough, to pass unkind remarks because a young
woman or young man who is beautiful. Be careful
dear people! How can you be beautiful, if you
criticise those who are? Never let a thought or feel­
ing pass through your mind as you value your Victory,
in criticism of a man or woman who is really beautiful
in the physical form.
It is an old saying that physical beauty is only
À
108 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
skin deep. Be careful! be careful! I will show you why
that is wrong. The feeling world is what produces
beauty in the flesh. If there were not sufficient beauty
in the feeling, it could not out-picture in the flesh.
Therefore, you see the old time-worn statement was
not correct, as many of mankind think today. So you
see, beloved ones, you must not judge—ever! Watch
out that you never do! and Oh you will set yourself
free so quickly. Do not ever attempt to judge anyone.
Then, when you want to produce Perfection in your­
self, no one will be able to judge you. If they do, they
cannot reach you.
I feel very close to you tonight and I shall say this:
dear people, what you condemn in another you are
almost certain to do yourself, somewhere along the
pathway; because you have charged that quality into
your world. If you do not use the Violet Consuming
Flame sufficiently, then that will out-picture in your
own Life. Therefore, if you condemn beauty in an­
other, you cannot have it yourself. The Law is such
that it cannot be produced for you; because the wrong
quality is there. Do you not see, how every particle,
every single Law of the Stream of Life which beats
your heart is absolutely Perfect? Oh beloved ones, It
is so magnificent!
I rejoice to have had this opportunity to pour forth
My Radiance, while you have been listening to My
Words. They are all quite simple; but yet far more
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 109
powerful is the Radiance which has gone forth for
your Blessing. Try to feel It and know that no longer
does anything stand between you and your Presence,
not even your head! It is really true! No longer is
there anything standing between you and the Perfec­
tion which you claim from your Presence.
One more thing! I want to say, while you, through
your attention are claiming the Perfection of your
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” We are doing for you
what We may not explain; but just please accept All
that We wish to do for you. We are utilizing every
means known, for the hastening of Perfection to the
blessed ones, who will give their attention earnestly
and sincerely to their Presence. I say to you, there is
no limit to which We may go in order to do that, with
your earnest, sincere determination. So will you ac­
cept It today and let Its Great Power go on, and on,
and on, in Its ever-expanding Perfect Activity with
you?
Oh these precious young people! how I long to
take them by the hand and through my hand-clasp,
charge into their feeling world such a Power, that no
imperfection could ever act again. Just let this go on,
and on, producing Beauty, Perfection and Gods
upon earth. Not only will Gods be produced among
mankind once again; but the Gods, in the fulness of
Their Perfection, will once again walk and talk with
mankind. I thank you.
T H E S I L E N T W A T C H E R ’ S
D I S C O U R S E
NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK
OCTOBER 1 2 , 1 9 3 7
T
ODAY is a day of great rejoicing, beloved peo­
ple of New York, America and Students of the
Light! The Great Cosmic Light is beginning
to take Its Dominion in the earth and upon the earth.
In My Capacity, as Silent Watcher to the earth, I
watched the activity of the energy released and see to
what degree mankind is responding. Then, came the
day, when that great Blessed Ascended Being, Saint
Germain, determined of His own volition to try once
again to bring the Light to the world. In this Effort,
He has proved His Great Wisdom.
Today enough of mankind, through their call to
the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” have made it possible
for a sufficient release of the Great Cosmic Light to
come into action; to not only sustain that, which
Saint Germain had worked during more than two
hundred years to accomplish for America; but to
bring forth more than He could possibly have hoped.
In the release of the Great Cosmic Light, no one, not
even Myself, expected to see Its permanent release
begin so quickly. I say this to the earnest, sincere stu-
110
dents of the Light, for your encouragement; because
the accomplishment is very great.
Let no one of the earnest, sincere students ever
again feel, that he has not accomplished what he
would like to have done. Beloved ones, you have ac­
complished so much more than We have even dared
mention to you, that I want you to have all the en­
couragement possible. Go on, and on, in your Mighty
Call; and never let your human nor anyone’s else
interfere with your onward progress or the expansion
of the Light within your heart. It must take place at
your call; for remember! this Light called forth knows
no resistance nor interference. It is the Power of the
Universe and all human discord dissolves before It.
There is no question about that. If you will be patient
a little longer, you will see the Power of Its Activity;
as the dissolving process of the discordant creation of
mankind, begins to show its out-picturing upon earth.
There is no power to interfere with this Light! with
you individually, collectively nor for your nation.
No power of human creation can interfere w’ith It.
The war entity of the world, if you are not familiar
with the term, is composed of the destructive crea­
tions of mankind and they are numerous. Let us for
illustration enumerate a few. The greatest perhaps
of all is the war entity. That is the created form, dear
people, which draws into itself the destructive quali­
ties of war; and when humanity becomes too dis-
.
112 ASCENDED M A STER L IG H T
cordant it seizes upon one or more individuals among
mankind and instigates war. It stirs up one nation
against another, for no reason at all.
In all the wars that have ever been on the face of
this earth, and I have watched them all, there has
never been a reasonable cause for one, not once! Any
excuse was used to pit human beings against each
other under some pretense, usually for commercial
purposes.
In watching through many centuries, seeing the
distress and hearing the call of mankind through
prayers to God by the millions, and being the Silent
Watcher to the Earth; I was compelled to know all—
all that has caused war. Yet, because of the free will of
mankind, We could not interfere with it. The great
cry of humanity has gone up so long! and now the ex­
planation is being given for the first time. Most peo­
ple did not even believe the Ascended Masters ex­
isted. Yet, They are those from your humanity who
came into Our Great Octaves of Light; and have
called to the Powers of the Great Central Sun as you
know It. They have called for the Power of the Great
Cosmic Light to be released, to prevent humanity de­
stroying itself.
This point you will understand. No human being
can be deprived of understanding, when he reaches
out with the feeling of the heart. Now this will ex­
plain to you many things, which the majority of the
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T “ 3
students have not understood; and why people, who
have been on the Pathway of Light and through fail­
ure and disappointment have turned from the Path­
way, became what in the outer world is termed black
magicians.
The free will of mankind may not be interfered
with, because individuals must choose how they are
going to use this Mighty Energy, which flows from
their Presence through their bodies. It is always flow­
ing. Truly it is only a fragmentary part of what one
can call forth; but still it is enough to do much dam­
age and produce tremendous destruction.
Therefore, today in the Ascended Masters’ Call to
the Great Beings, Who govern the release of energy
and Light to the earth, the Great Ones responded.
They have seen that Saint Germain has won the
Victory of gaining the attention of a few of mankind;
by which They could encourage and amplify the ac­
tivity, until the release of the Cosmic Light could
come into action to produce the needed result. That
has begun! You will see take place some very astound­
ing things to the human sense.
Remember, dear people of earth! and I wish that
every human being on the face of the earth might
hear these Words tonight: We are charging them
forth into the mental and feeling world; but even so.
I wish they might be conscious of and hear them as
you do. No longer will the discordant destructive
n 4 ASCENDED M A STER L IG H T
qualities and creations of mankind retard the prog­
ress and the Freedom of the earth. Mankind has pre­
vented it for many, many centuries in their discord
of every description; until the earth’s atmosphere be­
came so charged with discordant creations that
blessed mankind scarcely knew where they were.
Look about you today. You see many wonderful
blessed ones, but when something a little unusual
occurs they become so confused, they scarcely know
what to do. That is because of the condition of the
atmosphere of earth; but be encouraged.
With tremendous speed, this Great Cosmic Light is
being charged into the atmosphere of earth; and
hundreds of thousands of discarnate entities, earth-
bound for years and centuries, are being taken out of
the earth; for they have harassed mankind in every
conceivable way. If you could see what has been done
for your beloved city, since the Messengers were
here the last time, you would rejoice as never before
in your whole Life, or in all your lives; for the free­
dom and blessing which is coming to mankind so
rapidly.
Many, many of the beloved students under Saint
Germain, are already feeling the great release; the
great happiness; the greater more rapid response to
their Decrees and their desires which are being ful­
filled. Go on, and on, and on, beloved ones! Never
waver in your call to the Presence, remembering Its
ASCENDED M A ST E R L IG H T 115
Law is All-powerful. You are the Victory of Light in
the acceptance of your Presence and your call to It.
We have watched the letters that come to the Mes
sengers, with such intense calls for release. Thou­
sands and thousands of those calls are being answered;
some of them instantly, according to the ability of the
individual to quiet the human; and let the Power
directed flow in and do Its Perfect Work. Oh precious
people of earth, once you understand and realize;
that as you still yourselves in your acknowledgment
of the God-Presence individualized above you; Whose
Ray of Light and Energy beats your heart, as you
observe in the Chart; you will feel and know defi­
nitely, that no power in the Universe can longer
interfere with, retard, limit or cause you to be ill or
unhappy.
No power in the Universe can longer bind or hold
you. Will you not feel this, beloved ones? Just let the
Great Power from the Presence flow in and through
you, washing out, dissolving and consuming every­
thing within your human form—every discordant
thing; replacing all imperfection by the Limitless
Energy and Self-luminous Intelligent Substance,
from the Presence. It will cause your body to be strong
and well, filled with limitless energy, power and en­
thusiasm. Then as the Light within your heart ex­
pands, illumines the mind and continues; the density
within the structure of the brain steadily and surely
116 ASCENDED M A STER L IG H T
dissolves; until you become alert, aware of these Great
Finer Vibrations which touch you. They are the
Promptings from your Presence which will direct you
unerringly, in every move of the day, as you will
come to know.
The Presence that gives you Life is All-powerful.
It is All-wise! Learn to still yourself. Then in your
firm, calm, determined call, the greater volume and
intensification of Its Energy will flow into your heart
first; then into your brain, and you will feel clearly
and definitely Its promptings concerning what you
should do when you call.
Understand, beloved ones, the difference between
intellectual attainment and Intelligence. Intellectual­
ity is accretion, being information which you gather
from the world of appearance; merely one human
being’s opinions imposed upon or amplified by
another. Intelligence comes from the “ Mighty I AM
Presence” which gives you Life, and whatever comes
from that Presence is always correct. It never makes
a mistake in the world. Human beings coming into
this Light sometimes mistake their own human de­
sires for the promptings of the Presence; but that is
not the fault of the Presence.
As one trains himself to stand on guard about
accepting all that comes through, until he is sure it
is his Presence directing, then he will have clear
definite direction. Every human being on the face
ASCENDED M A S T E R L IG H T 117
of the earth will know exactly what he should do, as
so many of the beloved students do today. One blessed
gentleman whom We know in your city here, knows
clearly the definite activity of the day one hour from
the time he arises in the morning. All may do that, if
they will.
Your Higher Mental Body is a form just as tangible
in Its own Octave as your flesh body is here and stands
between your Presence and your human form. Your
Higher Mental Body is your Discriminating Selective
Intelligence. It is through your Higher Mental Body
that the Power of your Presence answers your call;
for your Higher Mental Body knows the Perfection
which the Presence is and knows your imperfections,
your trials and your struggles. It knows exactly what
to release at your call to give you the happiness, the
supply, the health that you require. It is All-powerful;
but if in your consciousness there is a feeling of doubt
or you are wavering, then you will not have the im­
mediate result which you would, if your acceptance
in the feeling were complete.
Your feeling world, dear people, is your Power­
house! Your thought is but a small portion of it! If
it be a decision between your thought and feeling,
your feeling will win every time; because it is that
from which your Power comes. When people enter
into wholly destructive activities, they only have the
energy already gathered about them in their feeling
118 ASCENDED M A STER L IG H T
world; as far as the hands extend or sometimes slightly
farther. Whatever energy they have already gathered
is the only energy they will have to use. When that is
gone, they are finished.
There is another condition which has been so prev­
alent in the world, until recently. It is disembodied
entities who pass on suddenly with very destructive
qualities. They stimulate individuals and keep
charging them for a time with added energy, causing
them to do their bidding. Great release, beloved ones,
has been brought to mankind through the calls of
the “ I AM ” Students, to have the discarnate entities
bound and taken from the earth. It has saved suicides
by the hundred, and yet it has only just begun. Dear
people, when the call is made to have all entities about
individuals seized and bound, and instantly results
are manifested; there is no disputing the fact, that
the discarnate entities were the things which were
causing the difficulty and limitation of the individual.
The entities have been taken out by the thousands.
The Law is explained, if anyone cares to observe It
and profit by It.
I wish all to know that in the Ascended Masters’
Understanding of the Great Law of Life, which is
your Life, the outer world has no authority at all.
There are human opinions, plenty of them; but that
does not mean those opinions are correct. The only
ones who know the solution of Life are the Ascended
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 119
Masters, Who have lived in your humanity and by
their call have released Themselves from the limita­
tions of earth. Today, They stand Ascended Beings
in the Great Plan of Life, wholly free! They have gone
every step which you are required to go and know
every requirement. Therefore, They are the Ones
who can teach you, and the Only Ones in the whole
world who can teach you the Truth of Life. That has
been accomplished in the Saint Germain books
which are for your use. Therefore, beloved ones,
profit by this Great Truth, which is before you. We
cannot compel you to accept It, but the Messengers
offer It in so great a Love and kindness.
Do you know, dear ones, that in the case of the
young man who tried to disturb the Messengers in
Boston this good Messenger saved his life? That is
how great his Love and Understanding is. Thousands
of times, the Messengers have drawn the destructive
qualities of blessed students and individuals, into
their own bodies and there dissolved the discord for
them in order to protect them. That is what Divine
Love means.
I want the people of New York this time to remem­
ber that the Messengers never send forth a destructive
thought or feeling, no matter what any vicious gossip
may say. They are firm, courageous and strong, but
they never condemn or judge. Therefore, they call
forth without cessation the Power of the “ I AM Pres-
120 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
ence” of every individual; of the students, of human­
ity and of America; to take command of the mind
and body of every individual; produce Its Perfection
and hold Its Dominion in and for everyone.
They bless the police officers, the United States
Government and its people, industries that bring the
supplies to mankind, transportation, and especially
the aerial transportation which humanity needs so
much. Their only thought and feeling is to bless
those great activities! They bless the school teachers,
the firemen and all public servants. The Messengers
bless without cessation and that is why, beloved ones;'
if once mankind would come, listen and see; they
would understand the Love, the Blessing and the
Power of Light given forth in the classes of the Mes­
sengers; thousands more could then have their Free­
dom if they only would. No one is compelled to come;
but thousands could come and be harmonious within
the Freedom which is here in the Teachings of Saint
Germain.
So I say to you blessed ones, the hour of your Free­
dom is here, if you care to accept This Understand­
ing and apply It. It will not apply Itself, but you can.
if you will, apply It with Infinite Power, Freedom
and Glory; and bring to you the supply of every good
thing your heart desires for use.
I am going to say this tonight because the calls to
the Messengers in the last two months have been so
ASCENDED M A ST E R L IG H T 1 2 1
tremendous for the supply of individuals. Beloved
people, you who are here tonight, observe this Chart!
It is absolutely accurate, according to your position
to your own God Presence; but your Higher Mental
Body which is in between is not pictured on that
Chart. The Presence is your Life and beats every
human heart in this room; the heart of every one in
the world; and the individual, who is foolish enough
to be stubborn, or who will not receive This Truth,
will go down in his limitations in the years ahead. I
am not talking to hear Myself! I am offering My Assist­
ance for the blessing of you precious ones here and the
Freedom of the people of America!
Europe and the Orient are in such a state, that
unless some Great Cosmic Miracle, so called, is per­
formed, there is little hope; but America, which is still
free, in the call of her blessed humanity, shall remain
so. Without the Light of America the world, the
earth, is lost. Do you know, beloved people, that
should the third episode in Washington’s vision take
place in your America; there would scarcely be
enough people left on the earth to make one small
city? You are facing conditions today, beloved people
of the earth, when more than human assistance, more
than human activities, must come forth, if the people
are to be saved.
The Messenger has told you of his experience at
the Royal Teton, where the Great Cosmic Screen
122 ASCENDED M A STER L IG H T
was set in action and the future of America shown;
which certainly indicated the Victory of the Light in
America. I say to you tonight, it looks most wonder­
fully encouraging. With all the Power of My Activity
from the Octave of Light, I shall act within the mental
and feeling world of mankind, to stir them up and
draw into this Understanding of the Mighty Presence
as many as possible. More are still needed, to gain the
balance and hold it; but in this Service rendered on
the 7th, I shall expect to see many wonderful things
take place, for the blessing and protection of human­
ity.
I say to all the earnest students throughout
America and the world; do not let down for one hour
in your calls to the Presence. I do not mean that you
should become excited or frenzied. You know the
assistance and call which are required. In the great
calm determined call to your Presence, It will release
Power of which you could scarcely imagine. Remem­
ber this Power is invincible, even with yourselves, the
Cosmic Light and the world.
Only when you see Its Great Invisible Activity
coming to a certain point, do you begin to see the man­
ifestation or Out-picturing of It in the physical world.
Before It can Out-picture, beloved people, It must
dissolve and consume the discordant tilings which
have prevented the Out-picturing of this great Per­
fection throughout the centuries.
ASCENDED M A ST E R L IG H T 123
Mankind has lived hundreds and thousands of em­
bodiments similar to these. Then what has been
wrong? The great simple Truth that the individual’s
attention has not been called to his own God Presence,
which beats each heart. Without that, beloved people,
I say to you there is no hope for any human being on
earth! There is no stabilization; there is no anchor­
age anywhere.
This is the condition which exists in the great
majority of mankind today. Through the sex deprav­
ity, the misuse and waste of the energy through anger,
hatred and the misuse of sex; the Life energy has gone
from mankind. Individuals cannot gather it back.
Only the people who understand their own “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” can restore the energy which is gone;
but they cannot restore it, if they continue in the old
habits. That is what is the matter with the people who
do those things. Many do not resist the mass sugges­
tions. They feel, they can go on in the old sex habits.
I tell you they cannot do it! If they do not save the
energy, which is Life in them; then direct it forth in
constructive activities, how in the Name of that Pres­
ence is anybody to have help, release and Freedom?
Dear people, We are speaking to you with all kind­
ness and Love. Many of mankind rebel, when they are
told they must discontinue waste of the Life energy;
if they are to be sustained and helped! Many have be­
lieved, they lived only for pleasure gratification; be-
124 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
cause they had been taught that it was the reason for
being here. Dear people, you are here as Beings of
Light! One day, you shall be the Victory of Light!
When this Cosmic Light takes a little more of Its
Dominion in earth, the wrong sex desire within man­
kind will vanish from the face of this earth.
All abnormal sex desire will disappear from the
feeling world of mankind! All discord and selfish­
ness will disappear from the face of the earth! Man­
kind shall love each other as they should! There will
be no thought of criticism, condemnation or judg­
ment of another anywhere in the world! Then, the
fulness of the Light of God, the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” will come forth and take command of individ­
uals; produce health and Perfection and hold Its
Dominion in earth forever.
This is a final battle between Light and darkness
upon the earth. Being Silent Watcher to this earth, I
know whereof I speak; and I lend all of the Powers of
My Being to produce the Victory of Light in America
and the world. I say: in all of humanity there is not
the Power which is in one of My Hands. Do not mis­
understand Me! I am not speaking of this Messenger!
I am speaking of My Own Hand—the Silent Watcher!
When this Power of the Cosmic Light permits, then
there shall be released into the earth the Power of the
Light! the Victory of the Light! which dissolves all
human selfishness and discord from the planet.
ASCENDED M A S T E R L IG H T 125
Oh beloved people, what a magnificent thing on
the face of this earth such a condition would be! Take
your city here: imagine what it would be with beauty
and Perfection, with all filled with Love of humanity;
love and kindness to each other; every human being
would know such happiness as has never been
dreamed of on the face of this earth. That is what
shall be; but it can only come by enough of humanity
understanding, that they have their own individual­
ized God Presence, the “ Mighty I AM .’’ They must
make the call to It with all determination and ear­
nestness.
Beloved people of earth! Oh, that humanity might
understand, in spite of the whole appearance world,
that these Great Beings of Light are using every
means the Cosmic Law permits at this time; to give
humanity the Strength and Encouragement which
helps them to make the call; until enough Light is
released to permit the Ascended Masters to do the
Work.
In all eternity, humanity could never pour forth
enough Gratitude and Love to Saint Germain. His
Power, Strength, Courage and Wisdom, in carrying
forth the Light to humanity thus far, is the Greatest
Thing that was ever done on the face of this earth.
Poor unfortunate human beings who quibble over
the idea that Saint Germain has been put ahead of
Jesus! What a silly nonsensical thing! Jesus is assist-
126 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
ing in This Work for humanity as much as Saint Ger­
main and so are many of the other Ascended Masters.
The Gods of the Mountains, the God Tabor, Meru,
Himalaya and the Guardian of the Swiss Alps, are
doing Tremendous Work for humanity. These Great
Beings, beloved people, are Real! They are tangible!
The Ascended Master, Who has gained His Freedom
by having made His Ascension, is as tangible as any
human form on earth, and far more so. Just because
humanity’s attention has not been called to Them
before in this way, does not alter the fact, nor indicate
that They do not exist.
Dear people, try to contemplate often the three
faculties you constantly use. Your attention! your
Power of qualification! and your physical sight, your
vision! These faculties would set you free in such a
short time, that it would astonish you, if you only
used them in the right manner. The power of your
attention alone would set you free in no time, if you
would only hold it where it belongs; instead of accept­
ing the appearances of imperfection and limitation.
You cannot know a thing without placing your atten­
tion upon it. Where your attention is, there you are!
What your attention is upon you become! Do not
lose sight of that, please, if you want to be free!
Humanity has been enmeshed so long in the activ­
ity of imperfection. Until individuals turn away from
it and turn to the Presence; allowing the Power of the
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 127
Presence to dissolve it, by the use of the Violet Con­
suming Flame; and to envelope them in the Tube
of Light which makes them invincible to discord; how
in the world can the people have Freedom? We know
they cannot! We have seen all through the centuries!
They have had hundreds of embodiments in which
they have lived, yet they have not gained their Free­
dom. Those who will give their attention to the
Presence and call It into action with unyielding deter­
mination, will shortly find themselves in a Glory in­
conceivable; and a Strength, Courage and Power
within them that is the Victory of the Light which
beats their hearts.
I say to the beloved ones, you cannot compel people
to listen; but wherever there is an opportunity, let
each one at least try to gain one or more individual’s
attention to this Light. As that continues, in a year’s
time there would soon be a million who are interested.
It would be so easy in another year’s time, to have a
million people in America interested and under­
standing this Great Presence of Life. Then your
troubles would be over!
Oh I tell you, dear people, no thing in the world
is so important as getting those books to as many of
humanity as possible. Do not let anyone be so foolish,
as to think this is said with any thought or desire to
sell those books. God knows, if such a thought were
ever back of them, they would never have gone forth.
128 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
Human beings must have their attention called to the
Presence; to God, Who beats their hearts! In the ex­
planation that is before them in this Chart, even
children can understand with a clearness and power
which gives them their Freedom.
So I say to you beloved ones, if you wish to serve,
if you wish to help to gain this Freedom; do whatever
you can to help spread these books and magazines;
and fill the Auditoriums where the Messengers are.
Call! Decree! Oh beloved ones, put the power of your
“ I AM Presence” in your Decrees! to open the way
and let these broadcasts go throughout the whole of
America. It is the quickest means by which the atten­
tion of mankind may be called to this Great Presence.
Then call their attention to the books through which
they can study this Law, apply It and have their Free­
dom.
The Messengers can only reach a small part of
humanity in these classes, even if your largest Audito­
riums were filled every place they go. This Work, be­
loved ones, is not something that can be given in a
few days in one or two lectures. In a ten day class,
only a small part of It can be covered; but they can
give enough to enable mankind to understand the
Power of the Presence, apply It and have their Free­
dom.
This is the reason why Saint Germain has not
brought forth deeper Activities of the Law of Life,
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 129
which He could so easily do. Mankind’s attention
must be held upon this Great God Presence, until
their calls are sufficient to place America where it is
safe. Then, the other can follow, but it will not follow
until they make this call first.
We pour out such great Love and deep Gratitude,
for all every blessed student in America has done; for
their calls and sincere efforts. Oh, how deep is Our
Gratitude to every Group Leader in America and the
world, for their courage and strength, to go forth and
carry this as best they understand; that more and
more, and more of humanity’s attention may be called
to this Great Presence; from whence comes the Power
of Freedom and Light.
Tonight, when blessed Lotus broadcast, I utilized
the opportunity to amplify it with Tremendous
Power and Speed, that it might go forth and do its
work everywhere.
I wish to add My Word of encouragement tonight;
for the Mighty Call which began to go forth: “ The
Limitless Legions of Light now move across the face
of the earth, and all human darkness disappears” !
What a mighty thing It is! Let Me tell you that actu­
ally, tangibly, today starts that Great Legion of Light
across the face of the earth. Remember It! Feel It!
with all the power of your entire being. That Mighty
Legion today starts Its move across the face of the
earth, and all human darkness shall disappear! We
ASCENDED M A ST ER L IG H T
1B°
want that to disappear before any destruction reaches
America; because of the onward progress which is re­
quired in the expansion of this Light, Freedom and
the Ascension of thousands in America.
Dear people, let Me assure you that the Ascension
is as mechanical, as natural and practical, as anything
you do in the outer world today. Only because man­
kind has not understood it have individuals looked
upon it as something incredible and impossible.
People today scoff and say: Why the idea of the As­
cension! why are not some of the “ I AM ” Students
making the Ascension? They had better mind their
own business! There have been three Ascensions in
America which started the proof of this Great Activ­
ity, and because ignorant individuals will not accept
It, does not alter the Truth of Its Reality.
This good brother here witnessed three Ascensions
in America and through his body was given assistance
to one. Let all beware who deny it! That does not
alter the Truth. Precious ones, I say to you, because
of the stubbornness of humanity who refuse to believe
these things, they just go on in that same ignorance
and remain in it.
Again, I say to you and spread this Word every­
where: No longer is humanity dealing with human
beings! They are dealing with the Power of the Cos­
mic Light, the Cosmic Beings, the Ascended Masters,
the Legion of Light and Its Mighty Director! There-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 131
fore, no longer can humanity hold its bondage upon
individuals by discord; for they are dealing with the
Powers of Light! They are not dealing with this Mes­
senger. They are dealing with the Powers of Light!
Let all the world understand that!
There have been those individuals who thought
if they could destroy the Messengers they would stop
the expansion of this Light. Let Me tell you it is too
late. This Light will go on whether the Messengers
are here or not. They have done their work and done
it well. They have had the courage, strength and
Power of a regiment, to carry forth this Light so fear­
lessly as they have done, and Our Love and Devotion
enfold them forever.
Remember, beloved people, the opportunity of all
the lifetimes you have ever lived is here before you.
Choose to utilize this Great Light and Presence and
you can be free! Refuse, and the responsibility for
that choice is yours. Remember, dear people, We
cannot compel anyone. We are offering the Truth of
Life. You are free to accept or reject It, but I tell you
everyone who rejects It will know It is true one day,
when it is too late. How you will wish and cry out that
you could have accepted It, when It was offered with
such great Love and kindness.
Sometimes the Messengers have been criticized be­
cause they were firm in holding This Light free from
contamination of any kind; but you are the bene-
i 3* ASCENDED M A ST ER L IG H T
ficiaries of that protection. Because their strength
was enough to keep this Channel of Light clear and
free; you are the ones who are receiving the blessing.
Our blessed Lotus! beloved people of the earth, you
will never know the service that she has rendered.
Sometimes those about her have thought she was un­
necessarily firm; but I tell you one day you will know
what that has meant to mankind.
I say to you, Oh beloved students, how Our Hearts
rejoice in seeing the great Infinite Love which has
poured out to these two beloved Messengers, from
the students all over the world. Never was such a
thing done before. There is such a wondrous Love
poured out to them from more than four hundred
thousand people; for there are many people who have
the books and magazines who have never contacted
the classes. Yet their Love pours out. Daily, dozens of
letters come from people who have not been in the
class; with the same great Out-pouring of Love to
them; because it is right and it is real. That is why, I
thank all the beloved students of America and the
world for their Great Love which has been poured
out. It is your Freedom, dear ones, and It is their
strength and assistance.
Remember! today, the effort is almost nothing in
comparison to what it was the first year that they gave
out This Work. Then, they had to break down the
human walls of doubts, fears, criticism, condemna-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 133
tion and hate. Those walls went down every time, and
Our Eternal Love, Blessing and Gratitude pour to
those Messengers. Today, there are thousands and
thousands in America who are strong, firm and un­
yielding in their call and use of the Light.
To you who have read the books, I cannot refrain
tonight from calling your attention to those blessed
children, Rex, Bob, Nada and Pearl. So recently,
They stood in physical bodies like yours. Today,
They are Beings of Light and Freedom, wielding the
Power of the Light Rays which is a delight to the
Ascended Masters. These Beings, who were right here
in your America, were set free. Mr. and Mrs. Ray-
born, the gentleman, his wife and son from Tucson,
Arizona, were also raised. These Beings right here in
your own America such a short time ago were in
bodies of limitation.
Dear, dear people, I plead with you, put out of
your consciousness, feeling and world all doubts of
the Reality of these Great Beings or your Presence!
Call It forth with a firm determination, so no longer
can the human creations about you interfere with It
or cause you to remain in limitations of any kind.
I say to you who need financial help for your com­
fort and shelter: Dear people, your Presence is the
Treasure-house of the Universe. It will release and
bring into your use whatever you require. Do not
give way, I plead with you, to appearances just be-
i 34 ASCENDED M A STER L IG H T
cause you have in the past. Stand firm and unyielding;
keep calling your Presence into action; keep calling
for your supply, and if you need money, say: “ ‘Mighty
I AM Presence,’ I must have money. Release it into
my hands and use through the power of Divine Love” !
Then stand and be receptive to whatever direction
you will receive; for you will be caused to do whatever
is necessary in assisting in its release.
Every one, who has stood unyielding by that Pres­
ence with firm determination, has had the results.
No human being on the face of this earth can fail to
have the results; if he will stand firm and unyielding
with It, and not give way to these appearances when
they keep howling: “ Oh your decree did not operate;
your application has not worked” ! All such things
are but human suggestions which will cause you to
waver and become discouraged. I plead with you, do
not do it! Your Presence is the Power of the Universe!
There is nothing in human creation that can stay Its
Power, if you stand by It and keep calling It into
action. Do not yield to the limitations of money or
anything else. This Power is in your Presence. The
Intelligence is there which will cause you to do what
is necessary, to give you the assistance and help.
Dear people! you have not only your call. You have
such enormous Assistance, more than ever before in
the world. So I say to you, stand unwavering. Do not
yield to this appearance world any longer. Just be-
cause it has frightened you once, it need not do it
again. The Great Intelligence, the Great Presence,
the Great Power is the Power of Light, which will
never forsake you. You have forsaken It many times,
but It never has forsaken you! When you understand
that your firm determination brings the release from
the Presence; then you will be firmer, and firmer, and
firmer than ever in your call.
I thank you with all My Heart for this opportunity
of speaking to you tonight. May you feel the Great,
the Mighty Truth of the Words I have spoken. Let
them do for you all I should love to do. Feel their
Strength, Power and Courage flooding your feeling
world, your being, with the Power which they are.
Have the Eternal Glory and Freedom come quickly
into your experience, which is permanent and
eternal. All that you are gaining these days is yours
forever! It is not something, dear ones, which is here
today and gone tomorrow, as your experiences of the
past have been. It is a great, a Mighty Law of your
being, of your Life, set into action to produce the per­
manent result.
In the fulness of the Presence of the Great Cosmic
Light, I call It to enfold each one of you in Its
Strength; in Its Alertness; in Its Activity; in Its
Mighty Directing Intelligence; to clothe you in Itself
and carry you forward quickly into the full conscious­
ness of your Dominion and Freedom in the power of
i 36 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
your application. Permanent results come only
through your own dynamic application! Remember,
you are the decreer of how this Mighty Energy from
God, your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” shall act for you,
in and through you and your world.
Ask your Presence to still, to stop all wrong quali­
fication through your feeling world; and so charge it
with the Perfection of the Presence, that no longer
does the human qualification act, to clothe the
Wondrous Energy as it goes forth with anything but
Perfection for you. I make this call for you tonight:
“ ‘Mighty I AM Presence’ of each one of these beloved
ones, every ‘I AM ’ Student throughout America and
the world; charge their feeling worlds this hour with
the Power of Thy Courage, Strength and Thy Eternal
Freedom. Sustain them in Thy Activity and Power
of Light; until the outer consciousness gains the full
realization of Thy Power of Light and Its Eternal
Freedom; acting in and through each individual who
will give his attention to It. Great Powers of Light!
strengthen mankind! cut them free from every limita­
tion of every kind! Seize and bind all entities, carnate
and discarnate, take them from the octave of earth;
and set all humanity free forever; that the fulness of
the call of each one may find its immediate Do­
minion.”
I thank you.
M I G H T Y A S T R E A ’ S D I S C O U R S E
Beloved Children of the Light, I have en-
joyed the evening with you quite as much as
yourselves, and I did not accept your disappointment
yesterday. You know, if you were disappointed it was
your fault, not because you had committed any
wrong; but because the talk was necessary for the ac­
tivity. Notice this carefully. It was necessary for the
Messenger to speak the words in his own manner, that
We might anchor the Help We were giving you from
the Inner standpoint, more powerfully in the physical
octave. So after all it was not a disappointment. You
just did not understand it.
I want you to know, and I say to our Blessed Child
of the Light here in Philadelphia (Mrs. Ekey), I never
have failed to answer her call and never shall. I did
not yesterday, although because someone did not
dictate, for a moment you thought that might be the
case; and you were analyzing yourselves to see in what
way you had been the cause of it. You see how you
should be careful and not jump at conclusions!
Blessed ones, you are My Precious Children, do not
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA
NOVEMBER I, 1937
A IN T G ERM AIN :
138 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
ever forget that! Everything that it is possible for Me
to do for you I shall always do. Sometimes, the beloved
ones for the moment do not realize how great My
Love is for them; and how great My Gratitude is for
their wondrous, wondrous assistance in this Work
which is being done. Oh precious ones, I know you
do not comprehend it yet, but try to. Do you realize
what magnificent assistance you are giving Me, in the
issuing of these Mighty Decrees? Oh, could you once
realize it, your enthusiasm would be boundless; and
not once in your whole Life Stream should there be
one moment’s depression or questioning of your
ability to release the Power of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” at your call. Tonight, while this Great
Presence flashes His Words before the Messenger for
your blessing, try to feel as you are listening: that
never for a single moment will there ever again be the
slightest question in your mind of the instantaneous
answer of your every call to the Presence. If you will
take this Consciousness and Feeling now during the
dictation; you will find a greater confidence arising
within you, than you have had before in your applica­
tion. This is the thing that is needed throughout the
students. Although you have had great success in your
application, still it is only a small part of what you can
have. That is what We want you to feel—the full con­
fidence and power of your own application, and you
are going to get it tremendously.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 139
You know, beloved ones, I am going to say some­
thing quite in confidence to you. It is a wonderful
thing to watch the play of your feelings. I enjoyed it
yesterday amazingly. Do you realize how many times
the feeling acts, when you are not outwardly fully con­
scious that it is acting, until it has gained some
action or momentum? A great work was accomplished
yesterday at your dedication. It was very great.
It is My very Great Joy to introduce to you the
Mighty Astrea.
M igh ty A strea
In the Radiance from the call of the blessed “ I A M ”
Students throughout America; and in the recent in­
tensity that has come forth, it has become My Joy,
Privilege and Duty to answer the call made by many
of the students and of the Staff.
Last night in your city, another powerful black
magician was seized and taken from the earth’s atmos­
phere. This individual, or shall I say those individuals
always have physical bodies which give them power
to act within the atmosphere of earth. That is the
reason why they act sometimes very powerfully.
I wish the entire Christian Science world might
know this and realize the great Truth which It is.
This individual is one who has spread so much dis­
cordant feeling among the people of the Christian
Science church. That is one of the reasons for many
of them feeling so antagonistic to this Work, for there
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
140
is no other reason. There is no outward reason why
any Christian Scientist should oppose this Work—
not a reason in the world. Yet this influence from the
Inner Activity has caused destructive feeling and
aroused that feeling in many, many lovely wonderful
people, who are Christian Scientists.
I am sure, since he was seized and taken out of the
earth’s atmosphere last night, that there will come
a great change in the feeling of the blessed Christian
Scientists throughout America toward this Work.
There is no reason why they should feel unkind to It.
It is only the fulfilling of the Law, beloved ones, of
all activities of the Light which have come into the
consciousness of mankind on earth.
Every angle of the Truth, beloved ones, has con­
tained some more or less portion of the Truth; but
no one thing has ever yet contained all the Truth,
until mankind understands the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” the Individualized God Presence. Then, they
have reached the apex of what the individual on earth
may comprehend; and it is quite sufficient to set them­
selves free in their application and call to the Pres­
ence; knowing that the “ I AM Presence” is the Doer
and their call but releases the Power, Intelligence and
Energy of the Presence, to accomplish even their As­
cension. It frees them forever from the wheel of birth,
rebirth, all limitations and all binding power of the
earth.
mm
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 141
I trust I am not speaking out of turn—now that this
is to be accomplished—when I reveal to you the great
intensity with which the Staff have been calling for
this to be done. You will be interested to know that
they have been calling for all black magicians and
their emissaries to be sought out, seized and taken
from the earth.
Tonight, I have come forth to fulfill this call and
mankind will know a blessing, happiness and freedom
the people have not known in four hundred and
fifty thousand years. T ry to accept this in your
feeling! That is why the Messenger saw entities going
in every direction; because they know My Presence
means their compelled obedience to the Light.
I wish everyone of you would please try to be
patient in your explanation concerning this entity
Decree; especially to the people from the orthodox
world, that only the greatest blessing in all the world
comes from its use. Your loved ones, who have been
kindly and lived good lives, are already in their own
Octave of Light. They need no assistance at the pres­
ent time; but it is those, who for various reasons have
been compelled to remain in the earth’s atmosphere
who do. The unhappy thing is that they are in an
environment in which there is no good thing; but if
the cause they set up was such as to compel them to
remain there, then they cannot remove themselves
without assistance.
142 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
Now note this carefully: so you may be able to ex­
plain it to others; because it is the greatest relief and
release for mankind from grief and the thought that
they might do some harm to their relatives, in asking
them to be taken to the Octave of Light. It would be
impossible for anything but Perfection to result from
your call. Only the greatest blessing in the world can
come from issuing that entity Decree; because if the
entities are not able to free themselves, then the Great
Divine Director, Who is the Authority for the earth,
will give them Assistance; or send the Legions of
Light to give Assistance and take them out, for they
cannot do that of themselves. Therefore, the greatest
Assistance and Blessing in the whole world is given
to those, who would otherwise be compelled to re­
main in this tragic atmosphere of human creation.
Beloved ones, oh, you do not understand how in­
finitely you are blessed, even though you are in an
armor of flesh in its present density. You have no idea
how greatly you are blest, even in the present density
of your physical bodies; when you must move in the
conditions which extend from the surface of the earth
up to approximately seven thousand feet. Under the
present atmospheric conditions, it is fortunate indeed
that mankind are not more sensitive than they are.
Their suffering would be much greater. Therefore,
the Great Law has provided a certain protection, even
in such vibratory action. Whenever there is a cause
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 143
set up by mankind, somewhere from the Great Realms
of Light there always comes compensation for the ac­
tivity; although mankind alone are responsible for
their mistakes.
This is the first time I have flashed My Own Words
direct to the children of earth; and it is the begin­
ning of My Work, which will clear the atmosphere of
earth for the incoming Golden Age. I should not be
surprised to see a very great change in Europe in the
next three months. I trust it will be so. Although a
tremendous destructive momentum has been gained
there, still with the Light, all things are possible.
Will you believe Me, when I say to you tonight,
that from the Retreat in Arabia; from the Golden
City; from the Great Central Sun and a number of
other places, there could be sent forth a Radiance
which would stop the war in Europe and the Orient
instantly? You have been calling. Keep up your call
for Europe as well! Who shall say what might be done?
Beloved ones, remember! because of what I am
going to say, I do not wish you to relax in your own
call for protection and all that is required. Do you
know that there are hundreds today, who call them­
selves communists that are not communists at heart?
Such suggestions dominate individuals through hate
and fear; and it is all the work of the black magicians.
They have tried various means of holding the atten­
tion of mankind upon destructive things in order to
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
144
destroy them; but the Light knows Its own and while
many times through the centuries there has been the
so-called battle between the Light and darkness; yet
because of the Great Cosmic Wheel, certain things
could not be done until It revolved to a certain point.
This point has been reached; and it is the only reason
in the whole world why These Great Beings have
come forth and flashed Their Words to mankind.
One day, beloved people, the whole earth will re­
joice that these books have come forth. The book of
“ I AM ” Discourses, the Ascended Master Discourses
and the one that is to follow, carry the Ascended
Masters’ Help to mankind. Nothing in the world has
ever been given like them and probably never will be;
becauses they are the fulfilling of the Law. You
blessed ones who have been privileged to have them
are most fortunate indeed. If you have not been so
aware of this in the past, please feel it intensely in
the future!
As you read every Word in those books, beloved
ones, remember! every Word there is a “ Crystal
Cup,” carrying the Ascended Masters’ Qualities and
Life into your world. To have those books is the great­
est privilege that ever was given mankind on the face
of this earth. How unfortunate any human being is
who criticizes those books, the Words or the explana­
tion given there. Those are the Ascended Masters’
Words, the Cosmic Beings’ Words, and God help the
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T i45
puny human being who criticizes them; for one day
they will know that those Words carry the qualities
that I am speaking to you now. They are “ Crystal
Cups,” carrying My Qualities and Blessing into the
feeling world of mankind.
Beloved ones, when you call forth blessings to man­
kind in the Consciousness of these Words, if you are
using My exact Words, you are charging My Qual­
ities, My Power of qualification, My momentum into
the world of each one for their greatest blessing.
Now, do you understand why the Messengers have
said to you, that in your Groups in issuing these De­
crees, if there be a hundred; if there be a thousand;
then each one of you is receiving a hundred times or
a thousand times the amplification of your own ef­
forts. This is no imaginary thing! It is a Mighty Real
action of the Law!
In the beginning of My Work, it is really quite de­
lightful that It should start in the city where the
Messengers first went forth. You see the Great Law of
Life never makes a mistake. Human beings who are
willingly obedient will make few, and soon no mis­
takes.
You are so privileged in these Decrees, decreeing
for yourself the Power, the Direction, the Perfection
of your Presence. Call It into action often and say:
“ ‘Mighty I AM Presence’! take command of me and
see that I never make another mistake” ! Oh dear
146 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
ones, I know you do not yet realize the full privilege
that is yours; but the Light is expanding rapidly
within you. Oh, if you think your happiness is great
now, what do you think it will be in perhaps two
years more? Go forth and gain the full confidence as
the Messengers have through their application. Then,
issue the Decree: “ ‘Mighty I AM Presence’! take com­
mand, produce Your Perfection here and hold Your
Dominion.” Then know it will be fulfilled imme­
diately. Can you imagine any greater happiness con­
fronting mankind than that?
You, who have created these limitations, disturb­
ances and discord for yourselves, can be the means of
freeing yourselves once again and entering into the
great great Perfection which you once knew! Thus far,
there is no one yet drawn under this Radiation who
has not known this Law before; who has not known
great Perfection. Then, mankind says: “ Well, if that
be the case, how did I ever get in this condition”? Be­
cause you turned away from your “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” There is no use weeping about it, you just
did! Now your joy should be boundless in knowing
that you are coming home, Oh so rapidly. You can
remember the difference in transportation between
the horse and buggy and the airplane. With the same
speed you are coming home to God, your “ Mighty I
AM Presence”—the most wonderful, magnificent
thing that ever happened to mankind!
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 147
Since I have known that it was to be My Privilege
to assist the children of earth in this—shall I say-
very great manner; I have observed some of the Group
Activities; and it has made Me feel with all the
Power of My Being the great desire to help mankind
to be free. For a long time, I but projected My Rays
to the earth, for at that time it seemed useless to do
anything else; because people would not give
obedience to the Light. Therefore, until something
came forth to draw their attention once again to their
Source, their God—the “ Mighty I AM Presence”—
there was no means of holding the attention with suf­
ficient continuous action for any permanent accom­
plishment to be made. Today again, I say you are so
fortunate, Oh beloved ones! Never let any outward
appearance discourage you or turn you aside.
Oh, these unhappy individuals who have tried to
turn students aside from this Stream of Light! What
a pitiful thing. There is nothing in the world ever
came forth which has been such a Great Blessing to
mankind or ever will be; because the Ascension is the
Goal of humanity, and Freedom from human limita­
tion comes to all who know their “ Mighty I AM Pres-
sence.” All that is required is their earnest sincere
application with harmony maintained in their feel­
ing; for it enables them to have their Freedom
quickly.
Any human being on the face of the earth who
148 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
will give obedience, keep harmonious in his feeling
and make earnest application, will find everything
in his world transformed for him. Individuals must
be earnest, sincere, and keep up their application
long enough, to let those Great Currents of Energy
dissolve and consume all of the discord and disturb­
ance, which has been generated. This can only be
done by the Power and use of the Violet Consuming
Flame.
Oh, that mankind would only feel the magnificent
opportunity of calling the “ I AM Presence” to use the
Violet Consuming Flame. Tonight, without your per­
mission, I gave enormous Assistance to all present, in
your use of the Violet Consuming Flame which was
called forth. That is why the Messenger saw the Ac­
tivity so vividly. Keep it up and you can soon free
yourselves from every limiting thing that has been
charged into your world—
your feeling world. Re­
member! It is not of such a large scope. Then, you can
easily attain the feeling of the great speed of its ac­
complishment; remembering there is nothing diffi­
cult for your Presence. Its Light just moves into action
and all else disappears.
When you came to this room tonight and these
Lights were off, the room was pitch dark no doubt;
but when you turned on or pressed the button, the
Lights came on. There was no battle, was there? The
Light just was there! Oh do you not understand, be-
ASCENDED M A STER L IG H T 149
loved ones, that when you call the “ Mighty I AM
Presence” into action and Its Power, Intelligence,
Energy and Light flow into, through and around your
being, it is identically the same thing! The Light
of your Presence will flood your body, even the atomic
structure of your body. It is in the same identical
manner, as the Light floods this room, when you press
the button or turn on the switch.
Do you not see how magnificent, how easy the
operation of these magnificent Laws of Life are? You
see mankind has been taught through old occult
training that these things are difficult; that you must
go through a long process. It would be necessary, if
the human were the Doer; but since the human can­
not be the Doer, then this Presence is the Power, Per­
fection and the Doer. Then, do you not see how great
was the mistake of the old occult training in limiting
and limiting themselves; because they did not under­
stand? They are not wholly to blame, because the
Cosmic Light did not permit many things to come
forth which have since been released to flood the
world.
That is why some occult students felt very unhappy
toward the Messengers, for they thought they were
running wild and over-stepping all bounds; because
those individuals did not know the Authority which
was back of them. That is why My Joy is so great, in
making you acquainted with some of these things
i 5o ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
tonight; because now as you enter into the coming
class, you will find, Oh, such magnificent release,
joy, blessings and such confidence in your own appli­
cation. After all, everyone yet needs confidence in
his own application; because through the many let­
ters which come to the Messenger, as Saint Germain
has informed Me, it shows that still many do not have
sufficient confidence in themselves. Well it is quite
all right, but try to feel that your Presence is the
instantaneous All-powerful answer to your every call.
By that feeling, you will soon gain the confidence and
the momentum of the greater release. Then, all the
rest is very easy.
Beloved ones, allow Me to urge you tonight, Oh
do not revolve your troubles with your friends, or
even in your own mind and feeling. It does not make
any difference how flagrant they seem before you, say
to them: “ Be thou dissolved! You have no power” !
then feel it, MEAN IT and as you do this, you will
soon find release and freedom.
It is true, beloved ones, that your own human
creations, which harass you, really have no power
except the Life fed into them. Realize that! Your
human creation has not one ounce of Power to affect
or touch you! unless you give it your Life by the
Power, which is the energy in your attention. It can­
not do it! Even your own creation could not reach
you. Think of it! Therefore, if you refuse to give it
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 151
attention and say: “ You have no power! Be thou dis­
solved” ! Do you not see that you stop everything
right there; all your human creation, and it cannot
longer harm you?
If you will say to pain or distress in your body:
“Stop! be thou dissolved” ! you have released the
Power at your command. What would dissolve it?
The Light of your Presence. Oh, if you would only
do that! You can! You are bound to do it! because
the Light within you is expanding to the point where
It will compel it to be done. Beloved ones, as true as
these Words are being spoken to you, within twenty-
four hours, if you would take your firm determined
stand, you could use this Decree in the acknowledg­
ment of your “ Mighty I AM Presence” and the thing
would be done instantly!
Please feel that in Our coming forth and giving
this Assistance, beloved people of earth, It is no
ordinary thing! It is no childish imagination! It is a
release of Mighty Power for the Freedom and Bless­
ing of mankind. Beloved students who are so in ear­
nest, please accept It. We speak with Authority. We
are the Authority! We are the Law! when We speak
these Words to you.
These Words, as I said to you in the beginning, are
Crystal Cups,” just as tangible as the “ Crystal Cup”
in this Messenger’s hand on the side of Mount Shasta.
I want you to feel this tonight, because it is absolutely
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
152
true. These Ascended Masters’ and Cosmic Beings’
Words are just as tangible as that “ Crystal Cup’’ was;
and carry Our Qualities into your world for action.
Oh, your privilege is so great! If you will keep up your
earnest application, refuse to accept the appearance
world as having any power any longer; I assure you
that ere long you, will begin to feel a joy, power and
confidence which will lift you above every seeming
problem on earth.
I say to you, the change which has taken place in
your feeling world since you entered this room to­
night is—let Me use just one Word—amazing! Try to
feel it! T ry to feel the Joy and Freedom which it is!
None of you could ever be the same again!
Now, when you go forth, do not let your human
begin to accept the old conditions of the outer world.
You must be the guardian there. You are the guardian
in your world of thought and feeling, and the most
important is your feeling. Remember! you are the
guardian at the gate of your feeling and the first
moment any discordant thing attempts to express in
your feeling, say: “ STO P” ! You can say it just as
firmly silently as verbally of course. You would not
want to say it verbally on the street.
Remember, dear ones, you are the authority in
your world. When you really use your authority and
issue these Decrees you will begin to see the results
very quickly. Your confidence and courage will rise
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 153
immediately. When the Great Ones give the slight­
est intimation of a thing for you to do, let alone a
request; instant obedience to Their Request would
bring such Blessings as no one in human form can
imagine. That is why the Messengers are so abso­
lutely and completely obedient to the slightest in­
timation of the Ascended Masters Who are directing
them. As everyone becomes alert and gives complete
obedience, his world will be transformed.
Tonight, in this particularly amazing atmosphere,
I wish to say: if there are conditions in your home
with which you are not in agreement, please do not
argue about them. It only generates antagonism
which makes things more difficult. Instead, if you
will call to your own Presence and to the “ Mighty I
AM Presence” of the others in the home, who might
disagree; calling It to take command, produce Its
Perfection and hold Its Dominion; you will see all
conditions righted and corrected without difficulty.
It is the habit of the human, if it sees something
to be corrected, to jump on to the other person and
criticize him; because he does not seem to be fulfilling
his obligations as he should. That is a mistake always
and but sets up antagonism, which prevents the thing
you wish to accomplish. Simply say: “ Very well, each
one has freedom.” Then silently go on with your work
and with great firmness in your feelings, silently say:
‘Mighty I AM Presence’ these are your childrenl
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
154
Everyone has a ‘Mighty I AM Presence’! Now, You
take command of those minds and bodies; produce
Your Perfection; hold Your Dominion and bring
about this which is required for the happiness, free­
dom and achievement of each one.” Then know that
the Presence is doing it and do not let your human
say: “ Oh my! it is getting worse” ! Do you not re­
member the times you have said that, when a con­
dition does not seem to dissolve immediately? It is the
same when you have a pain in your body and it does
not subside immediately, you say: “ Oh dear it is
getting worse” !
Beloved ones, these sound like very simple things,
but they become powerful through the individuals
Power of qualification. These are simple things that
mankind pass over constantly, yet which, if obeyed,
would so soon give them their freedom.
You have heard the Messengers say that there are
no barriers to Divine Love anywhere in the Uni­
verse. Well do you realize what has happened? I was
going to say in three years; but I shall say in just the
past year, since the great momentum of these Decrees
in the great Groups has been going forth. Do you
know what has happened? Why do you suppose I am
here tonight? Why do you suppose the Great Cosmic
Beings have given forth these Mighty Dictations? Be­
cause of just that. There is no barrier to your great
Love which has gone forth to the Great Cosmic
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 155
Beings and to the Great Source of your Being, in your
call for Freedom.
That is why, beloved ones. Oh, let It go forth! Re­
lease the great Power of Life, Its great great Kindness.
Let It flood forth! Oh, I plead with you, have no
unkind feeling to any human being; for through har­
monious feeling, you release the wondrous Power of
Divine Love which dissolves all fear and hatred—even
that which is generated by mankind in the past.
Remember, when something urgent needs to be
done, then is the time to be still; and let the Great
Power of Divine Love from the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” flood forth to harmonize your world. Then,
what you ask for will be done, whether it be through
individuals out here or through your call to the Pres­
ence; but if you are agitated, resentful, angry and dis­
tressed, your feeling world is so disturbed that the
Power of the Presence, Its Currents of Energy, cannot
flow out into your world to do what is required. Oh,
do you not see it, beloved ones? All is so easy to under­
stand and bring into control and dominion; if one
will give attention to some of these seemingly little
things of Life. The little things most people over-look
and think unimportant are the things that build great
limitation and distress.
Just a word spoken unguardedly concerning some­
one maybe with no wrong intent, another picks it up
and adds to it some firm assertion of a wrong com-
156 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
mitted. Then it builds, spreads and grows until a
tragedy comes out of it. This is how the little things,
unnoticed at first, go forth and build a whirlwind. So
it is in every one of your avocations in Life. In some
manner, you have allowed these things through the
power of your attention to feed your Life into them,
to harass, limit and disturb you.
All are coming to understand more each day that
Self-control, Dominion and harmony in the feelings
are the open doors to the Perfection of the whole Uni­
verse; for through those feelings the Perfection of the
whole Universe will flood into your world and find
expression there. It is the Law of Life! It is a Natural
Law. In accepting and giving power to appearances,
which are not eternal, is the reason for limitation of
every kind.
Think for one moment! Try to feel with Me! Take
the two, shall we call them drastic conditions—one is
tragic and the other is not. Observe the appearance
world—the creation and the accumulation of all man­
kind! On the other hand, observe your “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” the Source of all Power, Intelligence and
Perfection. You have been accepting the appearance
world as real, when it is but human accumulation and
has no eternal sustaining power. While here above
you is the Presence of Life, of Eternity, ready to re­
lease Its Power to charge and fill your world with Per­
fection.
—
I 1
ASCENDED M A STER L IG H T 157
Knowing this, if you insist or continue to feed your
Life into the appearance world to harm yourself,
there is no one can say nay to you; but you know the
Law. You can change your attention from this flag
to the piano quite readily. There is no difference in
handling your problems. You can change your atten­
tion from the appearance world to your Presence; and
every time the appearance world gets too noticeable,
run back and jump into the Arms of your “ Mighty
I AM Presence.” Then you know you are safe!
It is so real. It is so magnificent, beloved ones! You
are feeling it tonight as never before, and I insist on
it. I insist that My Feeling enter into your world and
hold Its Dominion there; until you gain the full con­
fidence and Victory of that which I know to be and
which I know is in you.
Oh the joy, the wondrous joy of knowing you have
come home to your Freedom. Your Great Presence
of the “ I AM ” with Its Arms out-stretched says: “ My
children, I welcome you home! With these Hands I
hold back and seal forever the doors of doubt and
fear. Come, my child, and enter into the Light! Enter
into your Glorious Home of Light, not built with
hands. Enter now into this world, through the Door­
way “ I AM .” Then, remain in the active Presence of
Light forever.
One day, when We meet in the Great Octave of
Light, you shall shake My Hand and say to Me: “ I re-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
158
member that night on earth, when My Freedom
came.” When you have once felt this Freedom, keep
charging It into your world and often expand it;
until the Full Glory of It fills your being, your world,
with Its Magnificent Activity and the fullness of Its
Infinite Power.
Even as I speak These Words, I can feel It entering
into and acting within your world. I charge It to be
ever sustained and active there, giving you the cour­
age, confidence and strength to stand dauntless in the
Light of your “ I AM Presence,” until Its Full Power
comes forth; finds Its Dominion and expression in
you and your world; releases you from all limitation;
and then gives you your Ascension in the Light. Enter
into your Eternal Perfection, the Electronic Body of
your “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Enter into the Glory
of your Palace of Light, your Home in the Light! I
thank you.
—
T H E L O R D M A I T R E Y A ’ S
D I S C O U R S E
NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK
OCTOBER 8, 1937
A WAKE! Arise! Oh children of New York! Your
/ \ Light is come! Your Victory is assured in this
X V. Light. We have watched the progress of man­
kind so many centuries; always hoping, hoping, hop­
ing that somewhere a means might be found, by
which We could gain their attention in a manner
sufficiently powerful to hold it to a definite goal.
You, who are so earnest have had some experience
without doubt that has caused you to realize, there is
a principle of Light which is your Life; which is all
Life. You can cause this Light to expand within you
and your world, knowing, It is anchored within your
heart; and that It is the most powerful Intelligence
acting in the Universe; but you have forgotten the
Power which is within your Life. Forgetting It, has
caused you to accept the appearance world as having
power to limit your Life; but upon second thought,
you know such a thing is impossible.
All outer manifestation that comes through the
Power of this Light is but the effect. Therefore, Its
Cause would have to be more powerful than the
] 59
160 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
effect, would it not? Let us get at the understanding
of these Truths and be more and more practical each
day. All Ascended Masters are very practical, but I
think Saint Germain is perhaps the most practical of
any; because His Work is concerned more with the
human octave than that of most of the other Ascended
Masters; although many have joined in this Tre­
mendous Activity, hoping now to free mankind.
Beloved ones, I take it for granted and from the
Radiance here, that you are strong enough always to
hear the Truth. Do you realize where you are today
in comparison to the rest of mankind? You stand with
the war entity above you and the destructive gas belts
beneath. To the human that is a rather precarious
position. Yet within you, within everyone of your
hearts there is anchored the Power of Light, of Life,
of Energy, of Intelligence, which is the Supreme
Governing Intelligence of both conditions. Will you
for a moment realize that this Mighty Eternal Truth
can never vary? Human opinions may vary, but the
Truth never! It is the same today and forever. The
individuals lack of understanding of this Truth, or
shall We say mis-application, is the thing which has
kept them from being set free.
All are understanding this practical application of
the Law, for you can stand with your feet on earth
and your head in heaven. Why do you suppose that
expression is often used, even by Ourselves? Did you
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 161
ever know that here within your human body is the
dividing line? (placing hand just above solar plexus)
A line drawn across your human form above the solar
plexus is the dividing line. If your attention is below
that line then you are dragged down into the condi­
tions of earth. If your attention is above that line,
then you will ascend into the Perfection and Power
of your Presence.
May I add My Assurance tonight, although it has
been so often given; that your attention to your Pres­
ence is the most powerful thing in the entire Universe?
It is the most powerful Activity in the experiences of
your Life Stream. I marvel today that mankind and
some of the beloved students, who do intellectually
understand that their Presence is Real and that it is
above them; still they give way to the appearance
world, as having Power to frighten or terrify them.
Your Presence will always answer your call; but if
you continue to requalify Its Answer and Blessing
with your fear or terror of the appearance world; then
the process becomes an extended one to your Free­
dom. With determination raise your hands to your
Presence! take your firm stand, even this moment and
say to your human self: “ No longer do I yield one
moment’s power to you. You can do all you please,
but you are not going to interfere with me. You are
not going to terrify or scare me because of this ap­
pearance world. My ‘Mighty I AM Presence’ take
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
162
command here and stop this human and make it
be silent.” Then, you do your part with firm de­
termination.
Now notice these two activities. I am sure so few
have really understood this particular point. It is one
which I hope to make clear to you and hold it
eternally before you in gaining your Dominion. It is
the need of your complete co-operation in your feel­
ing with your call to the Presence. When you have
made your call to your Presence, do not let your
human have a single opinion about it; except to ac­
cept its full outer picture or manifestation of that
which you have called for. If you will take a firm stand
in that with your Presence when you give the com­
mand, you will find no difficulty whatever in having
your calls answered. So many thousands of the stu­
dents are having their answers more and more rapidly.
We see them everywhere throughout America. They
are having more and more instantaneous manifesta­
tions; but I prompt every student throughout Amer­
ica and the world, when you begin to gain the Powers
of the Presence in Action through your physical form;
I warn you stand on guard! that your human does not
rush in and tempt you to use those Powers indiscrim­
inately. It is not that the Powers of the Presence are
limited in any way; but your application of them at
the present, and in the present condition of the world,
needs very great discrimination.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 163
You may wonder why the students are being
prompted so much at this time upon this particular
point. It is vital. We do not always think it is wise to
give the Inner explanation of why it is so. I think you
have sufficient confidence in Us, to rely upon Us until
you see all of the outer activity from the Inner stand­
point, as clearly as We do. We, who have been the In­
itiators of mankind for hundreds of centuries know
the exact requirement, beloved ones, of every one.
While this is My first time in coming close into the
Radiance of the students, yet I say to you, I am re­
joiced to find as much purification going on as has
already been accomplished.
There are many things I wish We could say to man­
kind at this time; because to many it would be of
infinite encouragement and strength; but others
would take it as license. Therefore, We must refrain
until such time as all will comprehend, or until
Groups are drawn together who are equally ready. I
question whether that will take place, because of the
Great Cosmic Light now flooding the earth; for It is
becoming—now notice this, please—the Great Initi­
ator for the earth in the future. No longer will man­
kind go into Retreats, for in the outer world of human
activity, individuals will gain their initiation and
Freedom. Whatever you gain in the outer world of
mankind today, is a greater Victory than if you went
within the seclusion of the Retreats as in the past.
164 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
You think your experiences of the outer world are
severe; but they are not in comparison to those which
the individual went through in the centuries when
Saint Germain and others gained their Victories.
Sometimes you think the appearance which stands
before you is terrifying. It is only slightly so in com­
parison with that which confronted the initiate in
and before His Victory.
Now make no mistake about it, those were Real
Laws and very definite! Their experiences were not
imaginary things. While they were sometimes created
and projected to test the individual, yet to that indi­
vidual they were none the less real. Therefore, to­
day you are living in an identical activity; because
from the thought and feeling world there is every
conceivable thing being projected at you. Now notice
that carefully beloved ones! Thought and feeling
creations from the world of human accumulation are
constantly being catapulted at your mental and feel­
ing world. These sometimes temporarily affect the in­
dividual. One blessed brother in your city was gaining
such marvelous progress; yet in an unguarded mo­
ment he was turned aside, because of insufficient
guard.
It seems to Me, the general mass of the students do
not yet comprehend this clearly. That which Saint
Germain refers to as the sinister force is but human
creation, your own creation, beloved ones! for what-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 165
ever part you had in the mass accumulation, insofar
as you have allowed discord to find action and express
through you, have you been a part of that creation.
The more powerful activity, of the accumulated
discordant creation of all mankind, has been used
by individuals who were disappointed on the Path­
way of Light. They are termed black magicians. You
do have the strength within you, unmistakably to win
your Victory under any conditions. In all the initia­
tions of the past, no one had greater forces pitted
against him in his tests in winning his Victory than
this good brother standing before you. The black
magicians, who have followed him, trying to find an
opportunity to strike at him and prevent his further
action, is more tremendous test than any initiation in
the Retreats ever experienced. Those in the Retreats
had fear. He has had none! Oh this is no exploitation
of his personal self; but it is to give you the Truth of
how today, in the expansion of the Light of the indi­
vidual, there is the Strength of the Presence which is
the Power and the governing, controlling Intelli­
gence. The Presence enabled him to be free from
fear; when he saw and knew these powerful destruc­
tive individuals were watching every moment, wak­
ing or sleeping; to catch him unaware, in order to
snap the Life Stream and release him from the body.
These are actual facts, dear people. They are not
imaginary things. I am trying tonight to have you see,
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
166
if you will, how Infinite is your protection! Mighty
is your Directing Intelligence through the attention,
to give you the Power of your Presence which gives
you Life. T ry to feel the strength which will enable
you to never waver. Feel the full Power of your Pres­
ence, to govern you and your world and produce Its
Perfection; and to release from the Treasure-house
of your Presence everything you require for use.
Do not give way to any more of these appearances,
but stand unyielding, firm and positive in your call.
Stand unwavering until the release comes! Dear
people, there is nothing in the world which could
withhold from you these things you require for use
in the Service of the Light, once you take this stand
and maintain it. There is no power in the world to
oppose that Light and never does. You in your im­
agination are the only one who opposes you.
For instance, if you believe something, an entity, an
appearance, an obligation here in the outer world, a
debt, an appearance of inharmony or disease, gives
you the feeling that it has Power; then you have given
your Life to that appearance or condition, to give
it power, when it has none; except your Life fed into
it by your attention.
The time is here, beloved ones, when this point
must be anchored firmly in your consciousness and
you will go forward like a rocket into your full
achievement. The students must all realize that no
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 167
longer shall they give one single appearance, less
than Perfection, any power by their attention. Shut it
off instantly! and say to your human self: “ Come back
here! go to your Presence and stay there! don’t you
dare get out of line here.” Remember! when any dis­
cord is acting, it is not your Presence; therefore, it
only has what power you give it. This firmness I am
speaking about, in taking your stand against discord,
withdraws the Power of your Life that has been fed
into it and the condition cannot touch you or harm
you. Oh, be firm about it! Do not yield any longer to
these conditions which have taken your Life, harmed
and limited you.
Do feel, beloved people, that there is not one thing
in the outer world which can touch, affect, limit or
use your energy, but by the power of your attention.
Do you not see that your attention is the first funda­
mental, either to Victory or to the depths? Do you
not see that nothing in the world can act without your
attention through which to act; because it must use
your Life? Oh, these Laws are so practical. These
Mighty Truths of Life are so important and tonight,
We are bringing them into powerful use.
Oh dear people, Children of the Light, I want you
to know that We also have Our own means of broad­
casting. As the beloved Lotus was broadcasting to­
night, We in Our own Interior Broadcasting Activity
have a Power, by which We do tremendous Work.
168 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
When We have come to you in the small Groups
there are many who have thought: “ Well that is quite
incredible, there must be something peculiar about
it.” They do not understand and they cannot imagine
that this is but a fragment of what is being done, in
the mental and feeling world. Whenever We come
and flash Our Words to you, they go through the
mental and feeling world like lightning everywhere.
Remember! the mental and feeling world of all man­
kind is one! The octave of the mental world is one.
The octave of the feeling world is one. Therefore,
when these Mighty Projections go forth, We are voic­
ing these Truths into the mental and feeling world
and into the atmosphere; but that which We send
forth goes through the mental and feeling world like
dynamite; because We so qualify It! We qualify It
to go forth and take charge within the mental and
feeling world of all mankind.
One day, when you know more of what is taking
place than you do today, you will see how magnificent
has been This Activity. It is not only you blessed ones
who are present in this room who are receiving the
Blessing of this Light; but hundreds and thousands
are feeling the touch of this Light; and these Mighty
Currents which go forth into their mental and feeling
worlds.
Remember, My Energy, My Light, My Qualities
which go forth are Intelligent! They go forth into the
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 169
mental and feeling world, finding their way to every­
one here who is attuned sufficiently to let them act.
It is not a haphazard manner of activity; something
that happens by chance. It is the Mighty Intelligent
Direction of Light, through these Mighty Currents
of Energy which bring to the activity of mankind
through the feeling of the heart, those Mighty Qual­
ities which will one day outpicture. Then they will
awaken as from sleep, as many in America have al­
ready done today.
In regard to those precious books, there are thou­
sands whom I could point out to you today, whose
first touch of those books has caused the Flame of
Awakening to blaze forth, and from that moment
they looked upon Life in a wholly different way; and
by a perusal of those pages have they found the Light.
Therefore, in the flooding forth of those books and
the Magazines, the attention of the people is held to
the Presence, the one Supreme Being of the Universe.
There is no power that can touch or compare with It.
There is no power which can touch you in your call
and acceptance of the Power of your Presence. Man­
kind will understand the Glory of the Tube of Light
which your Presence produces about you at your call.
It is so Invincible! Then you will be able to move un­
touched by the discord about you; but as long as you
keep accepting that maybe something might get
through your Tube of Light; you have the feeling
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
170
that is the channel for it to occur. Say with firm de­
termination: “ Not one thing can enter my Tube of
Light, when I have asked the Presence to draw it” !
It is the same thing with anyone. I ask all the students
to please take this firm determined stand to anyone
affected by entities. You must be firm, because that
individual, who is the discarnate entity is firm. Say
with determination: “ Not once again, shall anyone
touch my mental world or touch me, so get out” ! As
you fix that powerful feeling within you the thing
will have to leave you.
Oh there is nothing in the world which has power
to attach itself to you or disturb or affect you, if you
will call forth the Power of your own God Presence.
If something seems to affect you, then say to it: “ Get
out! you have no power” ! In that release of firm de­
termination, nothing in the world can affect you, be­
cause the Power of your Presence is acting. Oh
remember, precious ones, in your call, it is the Power
of your Presence acting which knows no resistance or
interference. It is the calling of this Light down, into
and through your body, which produces effects. Show
Me anything in the outer world of mankind today,
which has Power over the Light of God, your “ Mighty
I AM Presence.” How could it?
This is how you can soon bring yourself to a point
of assurance, a certain definite feeling of the Power
of your Presence as the ever guarding, directing In-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 171
telligence with which nothing in the world can inter­
fere. That is why, beloved ones, We say: Yield not a
moment, not an inch to anything, but the Perfection
and Power of the Presence which you want, and it will
produce it. It has to, because it is the Power of Light
and your call to It is the release.
If the beloved inhabitants of your city saw the
Inner Activity tonight they would declare a terrific
conflagration was going on in New York. It is, but that
conflagration only destroys and removes imperfec­
tion, within, about and of the human creation.
It is tremendously interesting to watch the awaken­
ing of mankind and to see the home-coming of so
many. Yet, I say to you, if each one of the more than
300,000 “ I AM ” Students in America and the world
today, would this hour take upon themselves the
obligation to search out one individual, whom they
could interest and bring into the Light; in a few days
or a few weeks 600,000 would be there. Then, if those
would do the same thing, you see how fast the Light
would multiply Itself. Everyone could do that.
Shall I tell you tonight how the hearts of human
beings are craving this Light? Many of them do not
yet know it. You would not perhaps see it; but We see
within the hearts of mankind, the craving for this
Light; because the Cosmic Light is amplifying the
slightest effort or feeling within individuals toward
the Light. Then, do you not see what a Mighty activity
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
172
the word amplification means? You amplify your
radio activities. It seems quite ordinary, because you
are accustomed to it; but when it comes to amplifying
these Mighty Radiant Powers into the activity of the
mental and feeling world of mankind, it becomes a
stupendous thing. This is why, beloved ones, We ask
you to not be disturbed, discouraged or dismayed
by any appearance of the outer world. You do not yet
see all that is being accomplished or know what tre­
mendous activity is being poured forth in the Mighty
Decrees from these great Groups.
If you were sending a rocket forth, and you wanted
it to go from New York to Chicago, you would not be
required to use as great a charge to send it, as if you
sent it to London or Paris. It is the same with you to­
day. For the sake of illustration, as far as your hands
extend in all directions, you can call and charge all
power there to go forth to do whatever is required.
Your Presence is the one who produces that Power;
by your call, you open the door for it to go forth to
produce what you need. Your Presence represents the
charge which sends the rocket to the farthest point.
You are the decreer of where the rocket shall go and
must call to your Presence to release the charge.
Now presume for an instant that you do not care
to send forth a rocket. The same dynamic power that
sent the rocket forth can be called into action to take
charge of your feeling world, to dissolve and consume
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 173
every discordant thing which was ever created there.
Then take command, hold Its Dominion and produce
for you without limit whatever outer requirement is
called forth.
Can you not see how absolutely practical the law,
the Energy, the Light, the Intelligence is which would
proceed to produce the results you require? Do you
not see the form which the Power takes makes no
difference whatsoever? The Presence is not concerned
in the slightest whether it be money, happiness, Self-
control, garments, automobiles, airplanes or what­
ever the requirement might be. It but releases the
Power and the Energy to produce these results in
form for you. Your Higher Mental Body knows every
form, that is required for your greater happiness,
comfort and Freedom. Therefore, in your Decrees
the Intelligence through your Higher Mental Body
will act to produce the result. There is nothing in the
outer world but yourself which can prevent the im­
mediate action of it.
Now remember, for I want to help you tonight:
you are the only one, through your feelings, who can
limit you anywhere in the Universe. When you take
your firm determined stand and refuse to allow your
human feeling to limit you any longer; your call to
the Presence will produce magnificent results in
whatever is required. There is nothing in the world
that can limit you but yourself. All the destructive
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
174
powers which have been created through the discord­
ant action of mankind’s feeling, all the black ma­
gicians in the world, and all the entities have no
power when you turn to the Presence and accept Its
All-power to act in, through and about you.
Tonight, I am charging this into the mental and
feeling world everywhere; because some few indi­
viduals have been entity conscious. They have re­
volved such things in their minds, until they have
disturbed themselves. We want that to cease among
the students everywhere. Be calm, firm and deter­
mined in the Power of your Presence and all Per­
fection will flood forth into and through your world.
You must produce Perfection some day. Do it now!
Beloved ones, so far as your health, strength and
energy is concerned, Oh do not yield one moment to
any disturbed feeling. Let Me help you against the
acceptance of any lack of energy or illness. Such con­
ditions come from getting your attention fixed upon
what has been occurring. Many times in conversa­
tion, you have heard of some condition, pneumonia
or some so-called ailment. The first time you catch
a little cold, you say: “ Oh, I have got pneumonia ”!
Dear people, I say this in all seriousness, because
you have no idea how your feeling world is acting in
the accepting of those suggestions. This is why you
need to stand guard constantly. If you, for the sake
of diplomacy, have to listen to a conversation that
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 175
would offer such suggestions; call your Presence into
action to stand guard and refuse acceptance to all
human suggestions. The blessed medical world to­
day seems to make that a part of their work. They
think they should offer these worded suggestions
to mankind. They say: “ According to the diagnosis,
you have so and so.” If you listen to it, you will have it.
Suppose there was the appearance of it, if you will
take the opposite stand and feeling and say: “ ‘Mighty
I AM Presence,’ dissolve that! I will not have it” !
before you know it, the thing would be gone. You are
the Decreer for your body and world, dear hearts.
Feel it, know it and BE IT . You cannot have someone
else win your Victory. You must be firm in this stand.
You want to win your own Victory, not have someone
else do it for you. Therefore, beloved people, in what­
ever assistance you feel you need to call forth from
your Presence, do not yield one moment to the feeling
that your own power is not sufficient.
All mankind has been taught for centuries to look
to something else outside for help, when the Power
beating their hearts is Infinite, All-powerful and is
the Perfection of health; is the Perfection of all
achievement; no matter what the requirement.
Therefore, live in that Power of your Life. Feel It
deeply! Be It! Be the Glory of God, your “ Mighty I
AM Presence” in full command, full Dominion, full
Power and Action.
176 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
How far do you think you are above the atmosphere
of earth while We are talking here? You think you are
sitting here in the room; but I say, you are far above
the atmosphere of earth. It might sound like a para­
dox, but one day you will find it is true.
I use this opportunity to extend My Love, Greet­
ings and Blessings to all the Students of Saint Germain
throughout America and the world. I trust that We
shall all meet again in the Glorious Victory of the
Light of your “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
In the future, remember this night, when you
were so free from everything of the outer world. Re­
call this Consciousness and feeling and enter into It
again at will. Such is your privilege; such is My Joy;
such is My great Desire to be of whatever Assistance I
may and to hasten your Freedom and Victory in the
Light.
Tonight, from the Great Octave of Light from
which I come, at the request of those ministering so
earnestly, I have anchored a Ray of Light from that
Octave into your city of New York; also one in Los
Angeles for the activities of the future; to hold the
balance of the east and west in beloved America.
This might sound strange coming from Me; but
I want to fire you, into the full Victory which is yours
by reminding you again, that you stand between two
destructive forces; you are like the filler in a cake, and
that cake is the Substance of Light. So in spite of the
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 177
fact that you are moving between two destructive
forces, still within you is the Power and Light of the
Universe, which holds within Itself and you, even
your physical bodies, the Victory of the Light. I thank
you.
T H E L O R D T H E M A H A C H O H A N ’ S
D I S C O U R S E
NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK
OCTOBER lO, 1 9 3 7
I
COME to you beloved students of earth in the
fulness of the Light of your own “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” You have been greatly privileged, as
some of the students have come to know, in having
by your earnest call drawn to you the Great Initiator,
the Lord Maitreya, who recently dictated to you.
Before I continue this which I expect to do for you
today, I wish you to realize for your encouragement
and strength, that it takes more than an ordinary
Outpouring of Divine Love, earnestness, sincerity
and determination, to draw the attention and Power
of the Great Initiator. Remember! never in the outer
world has that been done before! Only within the Re­
treats was it ever done for those who had been pre­
pared. They were held wholly free from contact with
the outer world for months, sometimes years, before
this Great Presence’s attention was even drawn.
As Saint Germain’s Work is the Activity required
for the earth today; so is it My Obligation and Privi­
lege to sustain His Work. Through My Being, as you
no doubt have heard the Messengers say, pour forth
178
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 179
the diversified activities of the Currents of Energy to
the earth, including Nature. Will you understand
that? As the way has been prepared for Me to speak
directly to you in this manner, I come to give you the
Courage and Strength to know that your Victory
must be very certain.
Steadily and surely there is being dissolved from
the feeling world of mankind and the atmosphere of
earth, all the accumulation which has been charged
with human discordant qualities. All this is rapidly
being dissolved and consumed. Through My Obser­
vation, it seems to Me only a few are realizing the ful­
ness of what the Consuming Activity means for hu­
manity. Let Me give you a clearer Feeling of what it
means to you, in every expression of your Activity.
Whatever is consumed by your call to the Presence
is forever erased from mankind and the earth! These
activities have never been given to help the people
until, Saint Germain brought This Work forth.
They repelled things if the Light were strong within
them; but nothing was ever consumed; because the
consuming idea and understanding was not there.
Today, let Me make it clear to you, that in entering
the Conscious Pathway of Light, you assert the Do­
minion which is yours; which you have not under­
stood before and not claimed. You are the Decreer
for your world, and when you enter the Conscious
Pathway of Light you are compelled, not by anyone,
i8o ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
but by the Light of your Being—the Light of your
own Presence—to make your own conscious applica­
tion. I ask you earnestly, never to tire, never to lose
your enthusiasm in your application. It is your Free­
dom!
There is nothing which can stand against your
determination; when you remember that whatever
quality is acting constructively in your thought and
feeling world, is the Power of your Presence called
forth. Remember that! It is not anything of your
outer self! If you will comprehend this, you will see
how the Power which you call forth in your Decrees
is Infinite! It is limitless and All-powerful in Its Pro­
tective Activity for you. Therefore, you cannot fail
in anything you earnestly call forth from your
Presence.
Today, the imperative need of mankind and
among the Students everywhere, according to My
observation, is the feeling of Infinite Power acting in
their call to the Presence. Feel! that It does release
the Self-luminous Intelligent Substance, which is All-
powerful in Itself, and when called forth It moves
into action. The human cannot obstruct Its Way. It
does not matter how drastic has been the discord, how
tragic the accumulation! It has nothing whatever to
do with this Light! The Light moves forth and dis­
solves everything before It! This is why the Mes­
sengers feel the Power of that one Decree: “ The
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 181
Limitless Legions of Light now move across the face
of the earth, and all human darkness disappears” !
It is actually, literally, physically and practically the
Truth.
Oh my beloved ones, do you not see how long,
century after century, after century, We have waited
for mankind to become aware of this; so they could
make the call? You are the authority in your human
octave! That is why you could not be interfered with
even though you were making mistakes! Still without
your call to Us, We may not interfere! Long, long,
long have I waited in My Capacity, to render a service
to the earth which is beginning today to act in greater
fulness and Power. You will understand that We
move and act in conjunction with and through this
Great Cosmic Light which is being released into the
earth; because the accumulation and discord of hu­
man beings has grown to a state where extraordinary
means must be used to save the people.
You can realize now with a greater fulness what
this means. In all the centuries past there have been
civilizations of which rarely more than twenty-five
percent came to this Great Height of Understanding;
but the mass of mankind having free will, would not
accept It. Therefore, We just had to take Our Hands
off. Does it not seem incredible?
Let us draw an illustration, that you may more
clearly understand how, while being sustained by the
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
182
Light of your Presence which gives you physical
forms, you and mankind could have so forgotten. Is
it not strange? The explanation is quite easy and quite
practical. Individuals being the ones who must choose
how the energy is to be used, having turned aside and
forgotten their Reality; they have become so clothed
with density, that only by gigantic means was the
shell of that human accumulation broken through.
Today, the Marvel of all ages has come forth to the
blessing and Freedom of humanity. Therefore, in
holding your attention to your Presence, the Source
of all Life, Intelligence, Power, Activity and Energy,
you are the most privileged of beings.
I wish you to understand today, that while enor­
mous Assistance is being given, it does not free the in­
dividual from the need of maintaining his own great
determination and making his own application. Do
not let anyone ever feel that he can ease up! It does
not make any difference, dear people, whether you are
having the full results of your application or not.
That has nothing whatsoever to do with it. If your
accumulation of discord has been unusually great,
more than the ordinary; then you must make greater,
firmer, more determined application, until you break
down the human resistance.
Do not be discouraged, dear people, because you
have not had the results which your hearts might de­
sire. You do not know in the outer activity what your
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 183
accumulation has been. Therefore, if the applica­
tion is needed, make it; but once you intellectually
know your Presence is above you, do not give way
again to anything less than the Glory of Its Perfec­
tion; brought into manifestation in, through and
about your human form. Such is the Glory of your
privilege and use of the Light, for in the fulness of Its
Power, you have your Victory. Dear people, notice!
You have your Victory! Please remember that! You
are not attaining, you have your Victory, I tell you!
Will you not accept that? Live in it! BE it! until the
full Power of this conviction flows into your being
and out into your world, producing the results you
require!
Remember, beloved ones, We must assert this until
each one gets the full conviction of it. When We call
the Power of your Presence forth, remember! Its
Power is a Self-luminous Substance, which floods
into, around you and out into your world. That Light
is All-powerful! It floods forth and everything unlike
Itself is dissolved before It! Once you get the full con­
viction, you will have not one moment’s difficulty, in
freeing yourself quickly from every limiting, dis­
cordant thing. This is the Law of your Life, the Law
of all Life.
You are the Focus of the Godhead at your point in
the Universe. Oh dear people, realize that! Do not
let the impression or the suggestions of the outer
184 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
world cause you to waver or question your Authority
and Reality from your own God Presence which gives
you Life. It is Life! It is you, the only you that ever
did or ever will exist in the world. That Stream of
Life is you! This which you see out here is but the
form which has accepted limitations and discord. It
is not real. It is not true, even though its appearance
is terrifying to mankind many times. That appear­
ance could never be terrifying or limiting to any one,
except the individual feed his own Life Stream of
Energy into it by his attention, which gives it Power
to limit. Remember, dear people, you are the author­
ity as to how this energy is going to act for you. As long
as you allow your human self to accept that limitations
can effect you; so long you are feeding your Life into
them to do it. Limitation has no power, if you will
reverse it and say to every discordant or limiting ap­
pearance: “ You have no power! My Presence, the
Infinite Power of the Universe, is here sustaining this
body. Then why should I accept limitations which
do not exist, except in the human imagination”?
Now these are Mighty Truths. Mankind can grasp
them. They are simple, nothing complicated about
them; but individuals have been determined to live
in that which they see in the outer world. There are
thousands of people, hundreds of thousands who may
have heard of This Work. Yet the human says to
them: “ Show me” !
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 185
Dear people, all the Infinite Light in the Universe
cannot show any one what that one does not want to
see; or what he does not want to be. Such an expres­
sion is but childish foolishness of the human intellect.
The only way any human being can have the proof of
anything in the world, is to call his own Presence into
action. It will give everyone all the Infinite, limitless
proof of anything he requires, through his own being.
The individual’s own experience is the only thing
that amounts to anything to any human being. All
that another does may seem wonderful and beautiful.
Yet it amounts to nothing, until you prove it your­
self.
This Magnificent Application has been the means
which all Ascended Masters have used to attain Their
Victories. It is before you in Their identical Words.
If you will accept it, apply it with firm determination
and not accept discord in any way to limit you; then
your application will quickly produce the results you
desire.
You must use the Violet Consuming Flame, for It
is the only means by which individuals can be free
from their own human accumulation of discord.
Those records cannot be erased, unless you call the
Presence to use the Violet Consuming Flame in,
through and about you. It is the only means by which
you can free yourself from the impact or pressure of
your own human creation.
i86 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
Think! Oh beloved people, think! The Great
Presence, the Divine Director, has consumed two-
thirds of your own human creation to give you greater
freedom and strength, in consuming the remainder.
An Offer of such vast Assistance to mankind as has
never been heard of before in the history of the earth.
Then please, beloved ones, take advantage of It. Un­
derstand and accept the fulness of His Power. Charge
your feeling world with the Truth, the vastness of
that magnificent Activity and Assistance which is
yours. It is wonderful beyond all words! More than
words are acting these days with you. More than
words, Oh beloved ones! The Power of the Infinite
Radiation which is going forth is resistless in Its All-
powerful Activity, sweeping in, through and about
you, to release you from every limiting thing.
Oh feel It! feel It! feel It, beloved ones! While I
have this opportunity, feel It as never before and al­
low Me to give you the Assistance of intensifying the
Feeling of your Glory and Freedom. While I am
speaking these words, allow the Light within your
heart to expand and charge in, through and about
your human form; dissolving the density of that which
clothes those points of the Light within the cells of
your body. Allow your Light to stand forth in its
glowing Radiance and Power and be free forever
from limitation of any kind.
All human limitations shall cease from the earth!
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 187
The time has come when it has to be done! Our Re­
joicing is great, that the Cosmic Light, directed by
Those Great Beings from the Great Central Sun to
the earth, makes it possible to do these Things. Be­
loved ones, We must keep your attention upon this
Great Privilege, so you may more quickly gain the
feeling of how great your privilege is today; in com­
parison to that of the centuries past, when those seek­
ing the Light had to win every step of the way en­
tirely by their own efforts.
For thousands of years, mankind sought the Re­
treats of the world. Now I shall use this opportunity
to acquaint you with what that word means. A Re­
treat does not mean a place in the outer world which
anyone may call a Retreat! The word “ Retreat”
means those Mighty Focuses of Light which have
been maintained for thousands and thousands of
years, such as the Royal Teton; the Retreat in Arabia;
Chananda’s Home in India. Those are Retreats. Do
not use those words lightly in your outer world to­
day! Realize! that in the thousands of years in which
mankind sought the world over for those Retreats,
some found them and some did not. Few did! Today
the Power, the Activity which is within those Retreats
has come to you in the outer world. It is very wonder­
ful to feel, know and see how many of the beloved
students under Saint Germain are actually in their
feeling accepting and being blessed by this Magnifi-
188 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
cent Truth. The great privilege is theirs today and it
is ever-expanding.
This Light, the Light of the world has begun Its
Journey in the earth to free mankind. Please remem­
ber, while it is for great Groups of humanity to help
consume what retards their Perfecting Activity; yet
there is no power on earth or anywhere else—visible
or invisible! that can effect any one of you or retard
the expansion of your Light, from your Presence, but
yourself.
If you will discard everything, stand in your Pres­
ence and keep calling It into action; then you will
have the Perfection which It is. As you gain the
Victory, you will find soon that no condition of the
outer world affects or touches you.
You must understand that this good Messenger be­
fore you is the fulfilling of this Law. You know of all
that has been projected at him—enough to destroy an
army, yet it does not touch him. Then you must know
that it is more than human. The human cannot pro­
tect itself; but his assurance of the Power of the Pres­
ence, each day gaining Its greater Power and Author­
ity, is the Invincible Protection which is about every
one. If you do not claim It, how can you have Its use?
Oh keep on! keep on! keep on! Oh claim the Power
of your Presence governing you in Self-control, charg­
ing in, through your mind and body, and out into
your world; producing its harmonizing Perfection of
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 189
the Presence in your world and activity. You are the
Central Focus of your world. You cannot know any­
one’s else world. You have not anything to do with
anyone’s else world! I plead with you, do not have
even an opinion about anyone else. You are the one
who needs attention, each one! Never have opinions
about somebody else! If you do, then you are charging
your world with whatever that feeling is! You are the
only one who is going to be disappointed. The other
person has an “ I AM Presence” ! Let It take care of
him and keep the human mind off every individual’s
personality and conditions, beloved ones, if you want
to be free!
Oh yes I know, through all the momentum and
habits mankind has said, how can I stop that criticism?
How can I stop those feelings which want to mind the
other person’s business? Well, it has to be done! No
one is an exception to the rule; because it is your Law
of your own Life. Oh, think of it! Bear with Me just a
moment and feel this deeply! Everything that holds
your attention, whether it be person, place, condition
or thing; all that causes discordant feeling in you,
and it does not matter whether it be resentment,
jealousy, hatred, criticism, condemnation, judgment
or any of those qualities; you are charging your own
feeling world around you with those qualities. Then
you wonder: “ What in the world is the matter with
my health” !
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
19°
There is only one thing that produces ill health and
that is discord in the feelings! Do you not see, beloved
ones, if there were not discord in the feelings, there
would not be anything in you to which the discord of
the outer world could fasten itself upon you and thus
affect you? It just is the Law. The moment some­
thing can get you stirred up, it just laughs at you! It
says: “ Now I have you” ! and it has for the time being!
You do not realize, beloved ones, what ten, fifteen,
twenty or thirty minutes of violent discord means in
your feeling. You may forget it in half an hour; but
the effect is still there, beloved ones! and the worst
of it is, that the effect is still going on long after you
have forgotten it. Therefore if you are off guard again,
it goes on doing its work! because you, your very
Life, has set it into action.
Do not let any one, any “ I AM ” Student ever say to
Me: “ I cannot control my feelings.” If someone of­
fered you ten thousand dollars you could be angelic
for awhile. Now that is just the proof! You could be so
happy for awhile, could you not? I mean those who
have not had much money. Then look at the indi­
vidual who has it! The same subtle activity seizes him
in some other angle. You see, no one is immune from
the discord of human creation, precious ones! Every
human being is the product of the energy of the
Great, the “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
The original intent of Life was that It should be
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 191
Perfect! Beautiful! and Wonderful! but mankind
turned its energy down; its attention down and has
drawn itself into the density of earth. You must un­
derstand, dear people, We do not humor anyone’s
feelings! We tell you the Truth straight and un­
adulterated that you may correct yourselves, if you
will. Today, I am saying this with a tremendous In­
ner Activity; because We see the rebellion in man­
kind among so many people; when the Messengers
tell them the Truth that they must govern the sex
activity. We have observed the rebellion and flare in
the feelings when the Messengers have stated the Law
concerning this. You cannot waste that energy and
have your Freedom! It, like anything else, has become
a habit. When you are very hungry it is a great satis­
faction to eat all you want! Many times more than
you want! All of these sense gratifications are but ac­
tivities of human qualification.
Remember! I said in the beginning: “ All Energy,
even that used throughout nature, passes through My
Being from the Great Octave of Light above the
physical world.” Can it be possible, that anyone for
a momentary sensation would want to waste My
Energy, or that which is released through Me to pro­
duce their Perfection? Waste it in riotous living,
when they could be Free, Perfect, Beautiful and
Wonderful so quickly! Not only that, but they can
come into a position where they could reach out their
192 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
*
hands and receive instantly whatever the outer
needed for use. It is and was the intent for every
human being to live like that! and you can!
It does not make any difference what your mis­
takes have been up to this time; if you will turn from
them; turn to the Presence; call on the Law of For­
giveness; all of that can quickly be dissolved and for­
gotten. We condemn no one! You are your own con­
demnation into the limitations which you have drawn
around yourself. Do you not see that nothing in the
world but you, yourself, condemns you? This is why
the Messengers have prompted the students about
this; because early in their experience they found
this was acting in many.
When you have found that you are making mis­
takes, please do not condemn yourself! That would
be still worse; but when you have seen your mistakes
clearly, then rejoice because you have found them
and know the Power by which to call forth the release
from all of them. Such should be the greatest rejoic­
ing.
Just as the Messengers have said to you, the time
for weeping is at birth instead of so-called death:
because mankind is coming into the experience Life
where the power of Light and darkness act. There is
no other place where the darkness acts, except the
earth and its atmosphere. The darkness here is dis­
cord and is what has caused the earth to be called the
“Dark Star.” It is because of the density of human dis­
cord: but the most encouraging, beautiful, delightful
thing to all the world, is the Great Truth and Power
of the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” to release the Light
which illumines the darkness. Oh, if mankind would
only take This, believe It and feel It.
I do not wonder that you love these Messengers as
you do; and I am going to say something to you this
morning which I hope will be an eternal sustaining
Glory, Courage, Strength and Victory to you. Includ­
ing today, in three years, forty percent of the dis­
cordant destructive accumulation of mankind in
America has been dissolved. Please understand how
magnificent This Work is.
To all of you throughout the United States who
are issuing these Decrees, I say this, because it is true,
and for your encouragement and strength: “ You are
not acting in any imaginary thing! You are wielding a
Mighty Light! the Light of all Life! the Light of the
Universe! Do you not see that every time you voice
Eternal Truth, you cause the Eternal Power of that
I ruth to go into action instantly? If you will call it
to be sustained, it will go on, and on, operating in
that particular call; until everything within the
human octave of activity is dissolved. You see how
logical, how practical, each one of these Infinite Ac­
tivities is?
Now, mankind is beginning to understand how
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
194
practical, how simplified, and yet how majestic and
powerful these Activities are at any individual’s call.
See how definite! It does not require that one be an
athlete in order to call forth the Power of his Pres­
ence. A little child four or five years old can call forth
the Light of its Presence with tremendous Power—
easier than most grown-ups; because the child’s mind
is not filled with a lot of human sense limitations.
If you will just feel happy and joyous about it in
your feelings and say to all accumulation: “ Well sup­
pose I have created you! I say to you then—‘You have
no power’! right now you are finished” ! Do you not
see what a magnificent activity it would set into ac­
tion, to produce that identical result for you? Try to
do the same thing as the Messengers did. They had to
win their Victory by dynamic, powerful application.
We did not set them free of their obligations, even be­
cause of the great service they were rendering. Saint
Germain! how His Heart longed many times to give
just a little boost to those blessed ones. Yet the Law
said: “ No! you just wait.” Today, We and they rejoice
exceedingly that the very demand compelled them
to make such dynamic application, that they won
their Victory. Now, they know human appearances
no longer have any power. Therefore, they are free
from them.
You have loved your America. Now you see be­
loved ones, the magnificent activity for its protection
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 195
and Freedom which is going forth every day from the
precious Children of the Light in America. It is
reaching into your governmental affairs more than
you know! Keep it up, Oh blessed ones, with ever
increasing joy and intensity; and I observe you are
using those Decrees with a snap and Power that is
magnificent.
You have been calling forth the Activity of the
Blue Lightning of Divine Love. It is out-picturing!
I tell you that those Decrees go forth with the Power
of Blue Lightning. Therefore, they are doing the
work with a greater speed. Shall I tell you how much?
Perhaps I should not say the exact amount, lest some
of our technical friends think they have found a dis­
crepancy. It is so amusing, beloved ones, to see those
unfortunate beings who criticize and condemn.
Notice this! that which they do not want, they do
not want to understand! lest it deprive them of their
sense gratification. Every one who is vicious toward
This Work is scared lest he be deprived of his own
sense gratifications. Therefore, such individuals try
to discourage others from gaining this Truth. As
though they could! As though anyone could say to
this Light: “ You wait, I am going to have some more
fun.” Today, the Light says: “ Your fun is finished!
Now you come into line or I will see that you do.” Is
that not vastly different?
Do you not rejoice with Me, with all of Us, that
i 96 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
the time has arrived for the blessing of mankind? Oh
precious hearts, mankind has never lived in greater
chaos of human creation than up to three years ago.
Yet never was greater Light released in any crisis of
the world than today. You see, beloved ones, how the
Great Law of this Life, the “ Mighty I AM Presence”
watches and watches for the balancing activity? This
is why the Messengers prompt all of the students
continually; that in calling forth any Power of the
Presence, you must balance that Power in the physical
octave by Self-control. If you do not, and you call
this Mighty Energy forth, you will intensify the
wrong desires. It is the Law! It is natural! You can­
not help it! That is why, if you will hold Mastery by
Self-control, then the Power of your Presence called
forth will release you quickly into the great Freedom
which It is.
Beloved ones, when We voice Our Wishes to you,
Our earnest Desire to help; We see among you
everywhere, Oh so many whose Light is great within.
Yet in their feeling worlds, they are not quite sure.
At least at times, they contact something in the outer
world and for a moment think: “ I wonder if that can
be true? I wonder! I wonder” ! You know We have
asked the Messengers, although they slip occasionally,
to discard from their vocabulary the word “ if.” Now
let Us add to that, “ wonder”—“ I wonder” ! The “ I
A M ” cannot wonder! It is the outer that is wonder-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T i97
ing! Remember the “ I A M ” cannot wonder! cannot
doubt! Therefore, if those feelings are acting within
you, do you not see how easy it is to determine what
the force is which is acting? Be alert, dear ones, and
watch that thing; because I tell you, the moment you
let this limiting consciousness express within you and
something begins to act in your feeling, which is less
than the Perfection of the Presence, you will know it.
It is easy to put it down! dissolve it right there! but
if you think—well I just think I am going on and
say and do that thing. Then, it gains a momentum
within your feeling and becomes difficult oftentimes
to remove.
The moment there is the slightest feeling of dis­
turbance, if you will be alert enough when any
discord, doubt, fear or any of those qualities start to
act; you will stop instantly and say like that to such a
feeling (snap of finger): “ Oh, no, just wait a minute!
wait a minute! You are done for! You did not fool
me that time” ! As you take those particular activities
and are alert to their action, you will have great joy in
the Victory over all such things. It will be just the
easiest thing in the world; but do not be too serious.
You have made a lot of mistakes for a long while. Now
rejoice that you know them for what they are; and
that you are the Victorious Presence over them.
You know We do not consider time. I so rejoice that
most of you do not; and that you do not grow weary
198 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
of listening to Us for two or three hours. Is it not
wonderful, to have released a sufficient Power of Love
to make you forget time and space? However, My
Work is accomplished today, and I thank you for your
attention. I thank you for the privilege of doing that
which it was My Privilege and My Joy to do. I remind
you that in your coming class there will be a Victory
unknown in the history of the earth. We feel your
Victory so certain, so joyfully, that you must receive
My Feeling, with Its ever-expanding Victory in you.
I say to all the Students under Saint Germain
throughout America and the world: Within a few
days, there has come the Great Final Out-pouring to
the Children of Light. Having drawn the Attention
and Assistance of the Great Initiator and Myself, it
should bring the Victory very quickly, to every “ I
AM ” Student in America and the world who is sin­
cere.
You will find it so much easier to hold Self-control!
Stand guard over the slightest feeling of discord!
Then in your call to the Presence, feel definitely—I
mean by that, it will become almost an involuntary
thing; but feel so definitely, the Victory in the call.
It is there! Your Victory is in your call! Do you not
see that? Because your call for Perfection is the In­
telligence, the Energy, the Power of the Presence!
Therefore, the Victory then is in your call! Does that
not make it seem close and simplified?
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 199
You have understood that God, the “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” in you is your certain Victory; but I say
to you, in every call you make is your Victory. How
could it be otherwise! Then do not let your human
have any opinion about it! Every time it begins to
say something, say: “ Keep out of the way! You have
had your day, you are finished! Now is the day of the
‘Mighty I AM Presence’ and It’s Victory! My call is
Its Victory.” Do you not see the marvelous feeling it
gives you that in your call is the Victory for which
you call? It is true! Accept It and have Its great Glory
and Power going forth in the Glory of that Infinite
Light which beats your hearts. I call it into intensified
Activity; but do not ever think you are getting heart
trouble. Oh, if your heart beats rapidly sometimes,
rejoice that it is the great intensified Activity of the
Presence; but that would only be momentarily. Your
heart cannot be troubled, for it is the Heart of the
“Mighty I AM Presence” !
We clothe you in the Great Eternal Light and Its
Instantaneous Eternal Victory. I thank you.
L A N T O ’ S D I S C O U R S E
ON THE SIDE OF THE TETONS—TO THE STAFF
AUGUST 30, 1937
B
ELOVED ones, your efforts have not been in
vain. Out of this experience shall come a
' memory that will last throughout eternity.
There shall come the fulfillment in its fulness of that
Great Desire within your heart, which is the Creative
Activity of your “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Remem­
ber! every constructive desire of your heart is your
God Power! Remember! Your desire for Light and
Freedom is God, your “ Mighty I AM Presence” ; act­
ing to bring about the complete fulfillment of your
desire for every constructive thing that exists.
We want so much to have you realize, there is not
one thing in the whole world, which you desire with
great intensity, that is not fulfilled through your re­
quest to the Presence. All individuals among man­
kind have been having their desires fulfilled through­
out the centuries; but they believed it was by their
own human effort. Today, in this vast Understanding
which is expanding within, you are coming to know
your Power-house; and to use your Scepter of Power
through your acknowledgment to release all good
things; to release yourselves from all human creation.
200
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 201
The first step, in releasing yourself from your own
human creation, is to most individuals the most dif­
ficult activity. To all of you, it is being done with an
ease that a hundred years ago was unknown in the
history of mankind.
I welcome you into Our Radiation, into the near­
ness of that which was once your home! You have
all been in the Royal Teton many times; but the veil
of human flesh has prevented, so far, the memory of it,
or at least most of it! Now let us dissolve the veil,
which has stood between you and the Grandure, the
Magnificence, the Beauty of all which will one day
be yours. Today, you have taken the first step of enter­
ing within those great, great Walls, whose magnifi­
cence and splendor are scarcely excelled anywhere.
The Tall Master from Venus and his Group, Who
were there at your first visit, have come to remain
until after the Christmas Activity in Los Angeles.
They will pour forth Their Radiance now and until
the close of that class. All try to feel a joy, a power, a
mastery over every condition which confronts you
in the coming classes; with a great calm serenity so it
holds everything obedient to the “ Mighty I AM
Presence” and causes the people to know, that you are
representing the Ascended Masters Activity.
Today there is a record made of each one of you,
on those thin sheets of gold. That means a great deal!
It means, if you will, you can win the Victory
202 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
quickly—all of you! but it also means a firm command
upon yourself, to hold it under control. This is all
within the reach of everyone quite easily.
I say to blessed Donald and Marjory, how for­
tunate and blessed you are to be here today! Cherish
this experience always as a Sacred Memory, Power
and Strength, to sustain you at any time. Do not ac­
cept into your consciousness, especially your feeling,
the things of the outer world which are projected at
you. When there is any discordant appearance, with a
great calm dignity say: “ Be gone” ! and it shall be
done! Then take your mind off the disturbance; that
you may hold the power and serenity which allows
the Inner Power of each one of you, to flow forth and
have Its full Dominion, as We desire.
If every student would always be firm in the human
obedience We require, We could tell you just to the
hour and the minute everything that would take
place! Be at rest concerning your requirements! only
make your firm determined application. To each
blessed one, We want you to just know and feel, that
Our Hands are within yours; with a firmness so great
you may often feel the pressure of that Hand within
yours. Sometimes, if disturbance touches your world,
grasp Our Hands firmly and go forward fearlessly!
for We always walk by your side to protect you.
We want to prepare you, so you may all come
within the Greatest Light of your “ I AM Presence”
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 203
quickly. Once you do, nothing of the outer world
would ever touch you or your world again. If your
joy is great, then can you feel for a moment how much
greater Our Joy must be, in seeing those who have so
long wandered in the maze of human creation, being
released into the Freedom which is eternal.
I plead with you, stand guard each one over your
feeling world; so at no time you let anything begin to
revolve which makes it difficult for you to handle.
When you say to a human appearance: “ It has no
power” ! remember! that is the Power of the Light—
your Presence—saying, “ You have no Power” ! There­
fore, Its Light goes into the appearance, knowing no
resistance nor interference. Therefore, you see how it
is dissolved. This is how every human being could
positively change or prevent any injustice ever being
done to him; if at the least intimation, he would call
the Presence to project Its Mighty Light Rays into
such a condition and produce Divine Justice. You
see the Light, which is Self-luminous Intelligent Sub­
stance and Divine Justice, would produce just such
an effect and nothing could prevent it.
Would it interest you to know, that I have been
watching you ever since you left the Lodge; rejoicing
within My Heart, as I am sure you are not yet quite
able to do, in the fulness of this Great Infinite Feel­
ing? Should you decide to come up to the Lake in the
morning, I shall be there with you and perhaps
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
204
several others; not for a Dictation, but for a Radiance
which We shall be happy to give you.
Do you wonder, why you were impelled to come
to this certain spot? Because it brings you within the
direct Radiance of the Grand Teton. Feel Its Great
Power flood your being and world! Qualify It to be
eternally sustained and active to produce Its Perfec­
tion in you and your world.
I just want you for a few moments to drink in this
Radiance in Its Fulness! Just feel it charge your
minds, bodies and activities with Its Mighty, Con­
quering, Expanding, Perfecting Power. Qualify it,
each one of you, to be sustained forever; with Its
ever-expanding Radiance and Power; to produce
Perfection and give you the courage, strength and
assistance which are required to win your Victory
more quickly, than might otherwise be.
Dear ones, you could hardly even in your fondest
imagination, picture the antiquity of the establishing
of the Royal Teton. I wish to enable you to realize,
what the wielding or projecting of Light Rays means.
In this instance, We shall use the term—the projection
of the Unfed Flame. When the Retreat was first estab­
lished in this great mountain, this range was much
higher than it is today. In fact the whole top, one-
fourth of it was in the eternal snows.
Now, notice closely what I shall say! The One, Who
came to establish this Retreat, projected forth the
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 205
Power of the Unfed Flame and made the Tube or
entrance. Then, that One went down into the Tube
with the same Unfed Flame and cut out the Great
Audience Chamber. That Mighty Master did not
have to dispose of the refuse, for there was none. The
Unfed Flame just dissolved the substance of the solid
rock and left the Great Audience Chamber: by the
same Power of those Rays, He polished the Walls
more perfectly than any instrument in the outer
world can do today. Within the Cave of Symbols were
prepared the metals, the sheets of gold which have
been used to make all those records. T o the human
sense, it was simply a colossal thing, not only to estab­
lish this great Focus of Light and Intelligence; but to
prepare and make all those records.
I wonder, if you realize, that the making of those
records is all done by hand. For more than one thou­
sand years, the making of those records has gone on.
You understand of course, that We use the complete
record of whatever was not completed in the outer
record. We always have the Etheric Record, which
is the counterpart of the outer record. The Etheric
Record is always absolutely accurate. From it. We
can always make these records which are accurate
and reliable.
That is why, in the great Wisdom of the Ages, all
is known far in advance. Whenever a cataclysmic con­
dition is going to disturb one of these places, or We
b h b s s b b h s ¿amm
206 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
wish to let it, all there is transferred to a place of
safety. It was the same in the burning of the Alex­
andrian Library. We took all of the important
Records from there before the fire started. We went to
the Vatican and took what We wished from there. So
all of Our records are complete.
That is why, beloved ones, in This Knowledge
which has come to you, there is the reason for Its
absolute Authenticity, for Its Power. By your appli­
cation, It will bring you into the Freedom and con­
scious Understanding by which you will one day
know first hand, of your own volition and in your own
consciousness, the Truths of which I speak.
Why do you suppose these certain jewels were held
within the Royal Teton for so many many centuries—
thousands of centuries? Because, there are those who
must one day wear them and wield the Power which
they give, for the lifting of the humanity of earth.
I trust those may be some or all of you. Do you quite
realize, why sometimes in a happy moment in the
sense of joke, one speaks a great Truth?
We rejoice to see you all so happy. Beloved ones,
know you not that happiness is the only means of
releasing the Great Powers, which are now at your
command and for your use? Do not let anything or
what someone else does disturb you. It only retards
your own progress. Do not do it. Just be at peace and
rest, trusting the Great Presence to do the Perfect
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 207
Thing; and as you continue to call It into action, It
cannot help but do all you require.
My daughter of long ago, (Lotus) how clearly and
often you have felt that connection in China, which
was once so grand, so magnificent and whose Light
was so great. Yet today it has become so degraded, so
drawn under the domination of its own creation of
discord and limitation.
Mrs. B. Can we not help them?
Lanto: My child, the Great Cosmic Light is soon to
do Its Great and Perfect Work! The greatest thing
which can be done is to call this Cosmic Light to do
Its Perfect Work for China and India. The distortion
that drove into China and India through the Priest­
hood was the thing which makes the deplorable con­
dition that is there today. In Tibet, the fanaticism
has grown so great that but for Our Knowledge of
the Great Cosmic Light and Its refining, purifying
activity; there would be but little hope for the restora­
tion of that once great nation. Still, you shall all see
the change which will take place in the next hundred
years. Seemingly inconceivable in the face of condi­
tions which reign there today. As you know, human
appearances have no power, who shall say what Per­
fection will reign, even sooner possibly than any
dream?
I ask all of you who are here, to please decree with
great firmness, as you have been doing: “ That all
2o8 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
human beings, all human creation, all that which
creates discord or disturbance has no power” !
Qualify your decree with the Power of the Cosmic
Light, to act in and through your decree; to see that
those destructive qualities have no power to longer
affect mankind.
We are so grateful for these Mighty Decrees which
you are issuing. As others have said to you, I say to
you: “ Oh how little in the outer can you even imagine
their far reaching power; taken up by the Ascended
Masters, it goes on, and on, and on, in its power and
activity, producing results that are so great.” Try not
to feel human responsibility; but place all of the
seeming responsibility in the Hands of your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” ; knowing It is All-powerful to
direct, to protect and to regulate all that is required.
Remember! It can do what you in the human cannot.
Our blessed Harry and Catherine! how grateful
We have been for your service. May it ever expand to
your greatest possible blessing! We feel very certain,
that in Los Angeles there will be one of the greatest
Focuses of Light in America—in the outer world;
because of the great number of students who are there.
Every one try to feel that those little disturbances,
which attempt to drive in, have no power. It seems
strange why students do not all realize: that the least
disturbance of any kind is but the sinister force, the
human creation, trying to prevent their Freedom;
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 209
instead of continuing to look at individuals or finding
some excuse for criticizing them.
I say to you: “ absolutely ignore all details of gossip
and everything that is put forth by the human, which
is less than Perfection. Turn every one back to his
Presence and refuse to discuss human creation or
individuals.” As you do this, you will find yourselves
so free. Everyone must regulate his own Life. While
all Assistance possible will be given, each one must
take his own Scepter of Power and call forth the Activ­
ity of his Presence. Then, hold the balance by Self-
control in the physical octave; for that which he calls
forth; otherwise he cannot balance It. If the individ­
ual does not maintain Self-control, the outer will
become too much disturbed for the Power to flow
through and do the Perfect Work required.
Mrs. B. Will you project the Blue Lightning into
Washington?
Lanto: We began it at Glacier Park and that is why
the Tall Master from Venus and His Assistants have
come forth at this time. Once each twelve hours, there
will be projected from the Teton, this Tube of the
Unfed Flame to try and bring about more quickly
this Perfection which is required.
Rest assured that in your calls, every possible Assist­
ance will be given to regulate these things as quickly
as possible. I wonder if you quite understand? If We
were to do some very drastic thing, in preventing
210 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
some of the destruction, certain groups of humanity
would be thrown into such fear, that it would make
it very difficult for Us to do the things which are to
follow. Therefore, We must handle the people as
children and just be patient. Do not think, that We
have forgotten, when you do not gain your Freedom
as quickly as you might hope; but just go on serenely,
calmly and firmly in your great Light and Life.
So far as your physical bodies are concerned, dear
ones, please feel that the Light is Intelligent sub­
stance. Just use this one application: when you call
to your Presence to charge your mind and body with
Its currents, feel Its Light which is Self-luminous,
Intelligent Substance, sweep through everything and
produce Its Perfection. If there be disturbance in
your body, feel the sparkling golden Light from
your Presence flow through your body covering every
nerve and cell in it. It will so quickly quiet all dis­
tress. Then, feel that Light Substance penetrate
every cell and flow around your body; as you call It
down from your Presence. Feel It just sweep out every
imperfection from your atomic structure, which is
your physical body. Dear ones, if you really get, as
you call it—the click—on that activity, you can sweep
out of your body within two or three minutes any
disturbance that might register there. I do trust so
earnestly that ere long there will be no disturbance
register in your body or feeling world.
211
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
I want to say to you, Don and Marjorie, for I think
you did not hear this when We spoke to the Staff. It
is Our Hope by the end of the Shrine Class at Christ­
mas time, to dissolve and consume what remains of the
one-third of your own human creation, which will set
you wholly free from the pressure of your own
creation. We must accomplish this through the Power
of your Presence, as you call It forth into action.
This has never been possible before, in the history
of the earth. This does not mean, dear ones, that you
should let down one moment on your own firm deter­
mined application; for it is important, even after
your own human accumulation is dissolved and con­
sumed, to keep up your own firm determined appli­
cation. Keep your world purified and cleansed of all
discord that would attempt to act; for as long as you
are moving in the outside world, the guard of Self-
control must always be kept up until the day of your
Ascension. No matter if your body and world are
greatly purified, as long as you are in the atomic struc­
ture, which has been to some degree responsible for
registering discord; then you must keep up the guard
for protection, until your Ascension is attained.
Remember, in the greatest joy on earth; if for any
reason you did not accomplish your Ascension in this
embodiment, then you would in the next early in
that Life. It means the goal, dear ones! the final com­
plete Victory on earth! the end of all pilgrimage on
212 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
earth. As you really understand this, is there anything
in the world which could give one greater strength
and courage?
Go on, and on, and on, knowing that there is no
longer such a thing as failure in your vocabulary or
in your feeling world. It just means the certain Vic­
tory for all eternity. Be sure that all, which is required
for use in your great firm acknowledgment of the
Presence in calling It into action, will come forth and
be released. Just go joyfully forward, making the call
for whatever is required. Whether it be your airplane
or whether it be other things required for your use.
The Presence does not mind how much you use con­
structively! It wants you to have whatever you want
to use for any good purpose.
I think this has been said to you before: one day
there will be a plane which can fly over the Teton
and rest there as long as is desired; but that one will
not have gasoline engines. I say to you beloved
Donald, there are currents of energy which can be
used, so far surpassing the fuel in the outer world
that there is really no comparison. All of this mar­
velous Perfection is rapidly pressing Itself forward
into the outer world.
As you become more and more attuned to this
great Stream of Energy, clear as crystal will come
forth this glorious Perfection. We hope—this is not a
promise—but We hope, after more of This Work is
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 213
accomplished and the Great Cosmic Light begins to
take Its greater Dominion on earth; that it will re­
lease the Messengers from the more strenuous activity.
Perhaps, I too may be getting a little whimsical; but
Oh many things that will rejoice you greatly will
come forth.
Beloved ones, just know that the memory of this
Glory which once was is Real. The distorted alchemi­
cal terms which are used today are a remnant of a
former accomplishment. The Elixir of Life is a Real
Wondrous Thing! It is a Liquid that will purify the
human form so quickly, and make every cell release
Its own Mighty Radiance. Then the brain becomes
so clarified, that the Radiance from the Presence
Hows, as if It were playing upon a crystal. Thus, It
reveals the words, the designs, the pictures in Its Great
Perfection, of everything the heart can desire. Then,
mankind can go on, and on, creating and produc­
ing eternally without limit, the Glory of all that has
been forgotten and the Glory of all that is to come;
in the magnificence of Its Wondrous Splendor and
Blessing to mankind.
Oh be so firm, dear ones, in a great calm poise and
feeling of Mastery. Be so kindly and sweet to every
one! If it be necessary to be firm, be so! but do not be
unkindly about it. Watch the use of your language.
Make it all that produces happiness, harmony and
Perfection to everyone. Then you will find such a re-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
214
lease coming into your world, that you will begin to
know all your desires are really being fulfilled.
Just be so happy, feel so kindly and pour out such
Love; and see how quickly the Power of a great Divine
Love will fill your being; how everything that touches
your world will bow in obedience to your Great Out­
pouring of Love. You have already done this tre­
mendously. Just let it go on expanding, until every­
thing that touches your world bows in obedience to
your Great Love. You can so quickly do it, if you will.
We give praise and thanks for this opportunity and
that you are here. Just feel Our Arms about you, in
Our Loving Protection, Guard and Strength. Then
with great firmness hold your own poise and Self-
control.
Blessed Lotus and Betty, We will try to make it so
easy for you in the work which you are to do. Just
each day in your separate rooms, before you start your
work, say with such a feeling of joy: “ Mighty I AM
Presence and Lanto! help us to have the ease, poise
and speed of accomplishment that we need.” Saint
Germain, Nada and the Great Divine Director will
all give assistance too.
Again I say to you today, beloved Staff! do not let
any human quality cause you to say anything to each
other, which would hurt the feelings; or which would
do anything that starts a feeling of discord to revolve
in anyone. Always speak so kindly to each other, that
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 215
a Great Out-pouring of Love fills your world. Make
it possible for your Presence to pour forth such a
Power of Love so It releases every good thing, to act
in perfect accord in all that is required.
Mrs. B. If I keep reminding you of those pictures,
will you and the Tall Master from Venus see that
they come forth?
Lanto: All will ere long come forth.
Now beloved ones, all that We have desired for
today has been accomplished. Feel Our Love, Bless­
ing and Enfolding Presence; and if you decide to
come back tomorrow morning, know that Our Pres­
ence will be with you; but whether you are here or
wherever you are, so long as harmony is maintained
in your feelings, there will come Our Mighty Release
and Assistance to you.
Do you know there is nothing throughout the cen­
turies that makes Us so happy, as to see people kindly
and harmonious to each other; for it makes such a
clear channel for the Out-pouring of the Perfecting
Activity. This Perfecting Activity means everything
in the world to everyone.
Blessed ones, I convey to you the Love of the Great
Ones from Venus and the Ascended Master Saint
Germain, Beloved Master Jesus, Nada, the Mighty
Divine Director, David Lloyd, Bob, Rex, Nada and
Pearl, Mr. and Mrs. Rayborn, Leto, Chananda, Cha
Ara, Mr. Gaylord and His Friend.
2 i 6 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
In the Glory and Radiance of the Royal Teton, I
salute and clothe you in My Radiance. I qualify It to
be forever sustained and active within and about you,
to more quickly perfect you and your world; if you
care to accept My Humble Efforts. I say to you adieu,
but not good-bye.
L A D Y M A S T E R L E T O ’ S D I S C O U R S E
PASADENA, CALIFORNIA
JANUARY 17, 1937
M
Y FRIEN DS of long ago, we are not
strangers as you might at first think, for
long have many of us known each other.
You of English ancestry and I have known each other
for a long, long time; and those of you whom I have
not met at previous times, I love you everyone.
As it has been My privilege to render a Service for
at least two centuries, so tonight, it is My joy and
privilege to give forth My Radiation to you while the
Words, are being spoken. The Great Host of
Ascended Masters are making a resistless effort to
establish within your feeling, your thought and your
world, a Quality of the Ascended Master Activity
which brings more quickly the mighty results that
you crave.
Will you bear with Me, when I pour forth this
Radiation to you? Feel as deeply as you can the Reality
of this “ Mighty I AM Presence’’ which beats your
heart; and that you can by decreeing retain the mem­
ory of what you do out of the body, when you retire
at night. First, charge your consciousness to go forth
into the Ascended Masters’ Octave of Light; retain
217
.
s 18 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
the memory and bring it back, when you awaken in
the morning. There are so many of you here for whom
that is possible.
It has been My privilege for a long time to give
Assistance in this way. If you will do that, I will en­
deavor to give you the Assistance which will give you
not only the memory of what you have heard and
seen in those Higher Octaves, where the Ascended
Masters minister without the limitations which the
human feels here; but that you may feel Their Cour­
age brought back with you. This is a vastly different
thing, precious ones, from that which you endeavor
to call forth and generate through Self-conscious
activity in your attention to your Presence. I mean
this will sustain and strengthen you tremendously,
in gaining your Victories through your own applica­
tion.
Every one of Us, Who has attained the Victory
through a much more difficult period than you have
today, had the Assistance of those Who preceded Us
in the Ascension. Therefore, We were given strength
and encouragement to stand firmly by this Mighty
Presence—unyielding, until We began to see Our
Achievement with sufficient fulness. Thus, We did
not lack in any sense for courage and strength.
These Ascended Master Qualities are so important.
As the Messenger said to you a few minutes ago, it is
encouragement and strength mankind needs, not
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 219
kicks and blows because individuals have made a mis­
take. All mankind have made plenty of mistakes.
From the Higher Standpoint, one is little different
from another. All is a falling short of Perfection.
So now in the Knowledge of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” and the Great Cosmic Assistance which is
being given, you are having the courage and strength
to win your Victory. Notice this dear ones! We have
gone through every step of the way that you have to
to go and know through actual feeling every single
step which you must make to gain this Freedom.
Then, will you believe Me, when I tell you We know
your requirements wholly and completely? In the
Wisdom which Saint Germain has brought forth,
this Knowledge is put forth in a simple dynamic,
powerful manner, in a terminology which all may
easily understand. Will you again remind yourselves,
precious ones, that in your application, you are using
the Power of the Universe? The “ I AM Presence,”
which beats your heart, is actually the Power of the
Universe; and when you call It into action, It knows
no resistance or interference. It cannot fail! Unless
you requalify Its Mighty Energy, as you have so often
been told, Its Perfection is always pouring through.
We are determined that you shall have the Free­
dom which your hearts crave, if you will allow Us to
give you Our Assistance. It is imperative that you
keep yourselves harmonized! There is no one thing in
220 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
the world which deprives you of the Perfection of
your “ I AM Presence” more than discord. So as We
continue to plead with you to master all activity of
feeling by Self-control; and hold your feelings har­
monious, We too will give you Assistance—all that is
possible, to help you attain Perfection. The day you
begin to see Its tremendous Energy pouring forth;
Its tremendous Light which is Victory in everything
you require; then will you rejoice as never before in
the Glory of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” the Great
Victor!
There are a great many people among the students
who have a natural ability to go and come from the
body. Now please, precious ones, do not try to do
that by yourselves, unless you feel thoroughly
anchored in your own “ I AM Presence.” Call the
Ascended Masters’ Invincible Protection about you,
before any such attempt is made. If you care to call
to Me for Assistance, I shall be happy to give you all
Assistance possible; but go into this activity in a very
calm, firm state; knowing that your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” is your Invincible Protection.
It is a natural thing, a perfectly natural practical
activity which mankind has forgotten. To those to
whom I have been able to give this Assistance, their
Freedom came at once—Bob, Rex, Nada and Pearl.
Their Joy is still boundless, even since They have
gained Their own Freedom by Their own applica-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 22 1
tion. Still in that Service, Great Assistance was given
to them. Mr. Gaylord, long a Messenger of the Great
White Brotherhood is with Me; for We have worked
together for a long time. So tonight, it is My endeavor
to draw so close into your feeling world also; that you
feel how truly Real, not only “ I AM ,” but that all of
the Ascended Masters are quite as Real as you are,
quite as tangible. The more you can feel that individ­
ually and as a Great Group, the more you will have
the Blessing and Benefit of that which We are en­
deavoring to give forth.
You see no one can receive this Good who repels
It, either in thought or feeling. You cannot even in
the outer world. You cannot receive a thing if you
repel it, can you? It is not possible! Realize how much
more it is acting in the emotional or feeling world of
mankind to repel a thing, than it is out here in the
physical world. Once you get the feeling, precious
ones, that your emotional or feeling world is the great
Reality; and what you see out here is but the effect;
then you will begin to draw to you the intensity of the
Inner Activity which comes alone from the Presence
—
whether it be the Assistance of the Ascended Masters
or direct from the Presence alone.
I cannot impress too strongly upon you, dear ones,
how necessary it is to be calm and firm in calling your
'Mighty I AM Presence” into action, to produce any
given result for you. Do not feel that it is not operat-
222 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
ing, if you do not have the immediate results you
think you should have; but keep with firm deter­
mination calling your “ Mighty I AM Presence’’ into
action to produce what you decree and you must have
it! That is the way We had to attain—every one of Us
Who attained the Ascension. We had to accomplish
It through this identical Application which Saint
Germain has brought forth to you.
I assure you, precious ones, there is not one thing
left out in those three books, which you require for
your Freedom and Ascension. I do not recall that just
this has been said to you before, but I feel quite free
to say it: Do you think, precious ones, that this Mighty
Ascended Master Instruction of the “ I A M ” just
came forth without premeditation and preparation?
You cannot think that surely! All of these Great
Activities which come forth in the Higher Octaves
of the Ascended Masters, or the Activity which comes
forth through the Host of Ascended Masters, is all
prepared. These books were written years and years
before they came into physical form. They were just
the out-picturing of that which was already recorded
in the experience of this good brother. The “ I AM ”
Discourses, which Saint Germain dictated and
brought forth, were all prepared in the Higher
Octave.
I want so much, tonight, to bring into your con­
sciousness the feeling that the Reality of everything
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 223
which comes into manifestation exists first in its Light
pattern. Everything that comes into form out here
first must have its Light pattern, your own form in­
cluded. You could not have a form without a Light
Pattern upon which it was built. The points of Light
within the cells of your body are the Light Pattern
upon which is gathered the substance that makes your
physical form.
Do you not see how practical, how wise it is to
realize that this substance around your Light Pattern
has been moulded and acted upon by your feeling
which was less than Perfection? Reverse that! Hold
your outer activity in abeyance; call your Presence
into action, which is Perfection, to reverse and change
those Mighty Currents of Energy. Then, you begin to
out-picture the Perfection instead of recording the
imperfection, which is the clothing of your Light
Pattern. It will remain.
It is so all-comprehensive to realize that in your
emotional or feeling world there is the cause of every­
thing that comes into manifestation. If you want
health, happiness, supply and Perfection, your atten­
tion and your feeling would necessarily need to ac­
cept—
from the only place where Perfection can come
from, your “ Mighty I AM Presence”—all that It holds
there waiting for you. Dear ones, think how long, how
long the Perfection from the Presence has been
waiting, waiting, waiting for something to call your
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
224
attention, to the requirements within your outer
octave here; which would allow Its Energy to flow
through unhampered, untouched by anything but
Its own Perfection.
It is the Great, Great Law of Life, precious ones!
Do not ever tire of studying and applying this Great
Knowledge which Saint Germain has brought forth.
It was intentionally made so simplified that even a
child can understand and apply It. All of the old
terminology has been left out, so no one might be con­
fused in Its application. That is why the Great Divine
Director, Jesus and Others have said: “ If you can,
give your whole attention to this, forgetting all that
has not produced results for you; then you will more
quickly have results from this Application.
It is not, dear ones, that you should be ungrateful
for all that has blessed you wherever it came from;
but We, Who have attained the Victory through this
same Application, are urging you and pouring forth
Our Radiation because We want you to be free as
quickly as possible. Our Radiation does come forth
to strengthen, to bless and to hold you within Our
Courage and Strength; until you, by your own appli­
cation, hold the reins of Dominion in your own hands.
Then nothing in the world can disturb you again.
Quite often the students write in to the Messengers
and ask why certain things are not accomplished, as
fast as they think they should be. The Messengers
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 225
had to make the most dynamic application, without
cessation, and they still do; to hold in abeyance the
things which would sweep them under. So everyone
of the beloved “ I A M ” Students must do the same
thing; until each one has gained more than the fifty
percent of Perfection. Then, the great Onrush from
the momentum gained, gives you the assistance which
requires less of your firm determined application,
than it did at first. After that is attained, you will find,
just like this good brother, that in one sweeping De­
cree, you can release the Power and Energy from the
Presence to come forth and do things almost instan­
taneously; where before it might have taken you
weeks to accomplish the same thing. You are all gain­
ing just such a momentum, precious ones, and it is
My Mission tonight, to register this in your feeling.
At this point, you are gaining your Victory, which
will enable you to have more instantaneous manifesta­
tion of the things you require.
Do not be discouraged, go on, and on, and on; be­
cause until you have reached the Ascended State, dear
hearts, you will have to continue to make your appli­
cation! There is no one to do it for you. You would
not want to just be in abeyance and allow Us to do it
for you, would you? There would be no Victory in
that. One blessed student recently said when a cer­
tain thing happened: “ Where in the world were the
Ascended Masters? Why did They not prevent it”?
22 6 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
They prevent a thousand and one things of which the
outer is never aware, dear hearts!
Will you believe Me, when I tell you that the As­
cended Masters for more than forty years have served
mankind—seeing this point was to be reached? Why
do you suppose the number, who have already become
interested in this presentation, have become so ear­
nestly interested? Because all the time, unknown to
them, the Great Blessed Ascended Masters were pour­
ing forth into the feeling world Their Radiation;
so when this came into outer expression, they would
be ready to receive it. Now that is one of the Services
the Ascended Masters have been rendering the people
for the past forty years.
Since Madam Blavatsky came into the outer world
and attempted through Theosophy to bring some of
this Knowledge and Understanding to mankind, the
Ascended Masters have poured out this Radiation.
Then, Mrs. Eddy brought another phase of it.
Now, this has come forth as the final Knowledge
in the acknowledgment of the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence.” It is the Great God-Source of Life! the Great
Principle of Life, Individualized. It is Intelligent Ac­
tion, the Great Power of the Universe, glorifying
mankind with Its Three-fold Activity.
Our Beloved Sister so often mentions the “ Three­
fold Flame,” the “ Great Unfed Flame.” It is your
Trinity of action, precious ones. The Son, Donald, has
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 227
also often mentioned the “ Power of the Three times
Three.” All of These are expressions of the One—the
same Great Invincible Power of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence” which, when called into action, produces
such tremendous results. That which We term the
sinister force fears the Supreme Power of Life tre­
mendously; and when the words “ Power of the Three
times Three” are issued the sinister force is powerless.
Precious ones, do not I plead with you, accept any­
thing less than Perfection as Real or having power in
your world. It really does not! “ I A M ” speaking these
Words with Other Ascended Masters Who are pres­
ent and charging this into your feeling world. Do you
know how greatly We love you blessed ones and why
We are making this tremendous Effort to stabilize;
to anchor you so firmly in this Understanding and
your application of It; that nothing in the world can
shake you loose from it? We rejoice, Oh so greatly,
for this privilege and means of speaking to you in
this way. All We are pouring forth to you is Our Ap­
plication and there are no human concepts in these
Words. While I am using Words with which you are
familiar, of course avoiding all technical terminology,
yet it is Our Expression. It is Our Means of convey­
ing this to you. It touches you first through your at­
tention; then by the spoken word; and last, by the
Radiation of Our Light in and through your feelings.
We are able to render you this Service now, as We
228 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
could not have a year and a half ago. You will find
this growing more and more powerful as it goes on;
and your feeling becomes more sensitized to this
Great Perfection. You too, then, will feel radiating
to you, acting within your feeling the Confidence of
which many have been so much in need.
When you are in the Radiation of the class, precious
ones, you receive as you all agree I am quite sure, a
tremendous step-up, as you say in electrical parlance.
It is true you are tremendously raised; but do you
understand, blessed students, that since the beloved
Messengers returned from Honolulu, everything
which comes through this Activity is a permanently
sustained Activity within you? It cannot go back, it
is not possible, neither can you. You cannot step back
once you have entered into this Great Stream since
that time.
You must all have noticed the magnificent change
in your voices; the marvelous manner in which you
issue these Decrees; and the marvelous qualities in
your voices. Many wanted to sing and could not, then
all at once, they burst into song surprising themselves.
These are Wonderful Miracles, so-called; but man­
kind, because it is through themselves, look upon it
as an ordinary thing. It is not, it is as miraculous and
as great as many other things to which you give
much greater notice.
Beloved Ones, you can change your thought and
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 229
feeling immediately, by a few moment’s attention to
the “ Mighty I AM Presence.” When agitation, anger
and disturbance would rush in, you can calm it—
silence it—
and be free almost instantly. It is a mag­
nificent thing and We all had to do it. I say you are
having Assistance unheard of. Why? Because, beloved
ones, you are deserving of it.
What is prayer as you previously knew it? A sin­
cere desire of the heart really; but in the lack of the
knowledge of your individualized Principle of Life,
which is God the “ Mighty I AM Presence” ; you were
not anchored, so to speak, at your point in the Uni­
verse. Your consciousness was thinking of an Omni­
presence. Such a concept does not enable you to bring
forth a definite special activity and manifestation at
a given point; as you do now in your Understanding
of the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” as the Individualized
Presence Whose Ray beats your heart. That is what
everyone of mankind is seeking. They cannot reach
Victory without it! All people have sought it, from
every angle in which they have been interested.
So tonight, my precious ones, you are entering into
the Gates of your Freedom. Will you accept It, that
We may prove It through you? Is not that a fair prom­
ise? Never in Our Experience was such an Offer even
permitted; but the Great Cosmic Law today has said:
"Oh Children of the Light! Awaken! Awaken! and
shake yourselves free from the chains of human crea-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
)
230
tion! Glorify yourselves in the acknowledgment of
the Principle of Life which is your “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” and stand forth Victorious in Its Light” !
Mankind, without understanding that their Freedom
depends upon this, cannot possibly and will not make
the application necessary for their Freedom. That is
why the need of application has been stressed con­
stantly to the students everywhere. It is only through
their application, that they can win the Victory of
their Freedom. Every Assistance in the world is being
given them now—for them, to them, and through
them; so they may have all that is required—whether
it be strength, Life, Intelligent Direction, health or
whatever is required. They can have it without limit,
in the acknowledgment of their Presence.
When I think of a hundred and twelve years ago,
during a time in My Ministry when the ravages of ill
health were destroying mankind right and left; the
Great Divine Director came to Me and said: “ Why
are you not rendering the service of which you are
capable”? I looked at Him in astonishment! I thought
I was rendering Service. Then, in His Great Limitless
Power, He showed Me clearly how I was only using
a small part of the Power of My Presence needed to
render the service. He gave a Mighty Decree and
asked Me to join in It, and what do you think hap­
pened? Oh precious ones, that very hour the ravage
of that distressing condition stopped! and within
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 231
seven days everyone was free from it. That is how
limitless these Great Powers are which you have come
to know.
Do not let anything, precious ones, deprive you of
the full feeling of your Victory, your ability and
power to call this Presence and energy forth into
action without limit. Do you not see, precious ones,
you are moving in a world, a seething vortex of human
suggestion? When the Messengers came forth at the
last Shrine Class, the suggestion had been spread that
it would be the last class they would ever hold. What
foolishness! Do you not see how the sinister force
seizes upon one individual and then another; and
causes them to start forth such a suggestion? Indi­
viduals take it up and one begins to wonder and then
another. As students, no longer accept that! There
will be many classes in Los Angeles; and there prob­
ably will be another one here in June or July—
right
here in Los Angeles. So do not accept those sinister
suggestions from whatever source they come. The
Great Ascended Masters know Their Business and
will carry It out.
We prompt you, do you not see, precious ones, in
every way possible to stabilize and help you; to re­
frain from accepting these suggestions which deprive
you of first one thing or another.
In regard to the suggestion of ill health: The
earth’s atmosphere is charged with it. Notice the sin-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
232
ister suggestion started again recently, to spread the
activity of the old time flu as coming again. Well, it
is not going to do it, praise God! It has already lost its
power. This is how, precious ones, with your assist­
ance, We endeavor to forestall all of these ravaging
things; which othenvise would become so distressing
to mankind.
When you hear of something starting like colds or
flu, or the various names people have given to such
activities; silently, individually in your rooms, or
your Groups give forth this powerful Decree:
“ ‘Mighty I AM Presence’ Silence all of that! Dis­
solve cause and effect of it! and keep mankind free
from the effects of all such things” ! In most cases, all
such things start with purely human suggestion. That
is why, dear ones, We urge you, and prompt you,
time, and time again: do not accept such suggestions!
Is it not strange that the human in mankind will
go to such ends, to try to distort conditions and pre­
vent the beloved Children of Light having the Bless­
ing which is in store for them? The Messengers care
nothing about these reports; but We sometimes men­
tion and take them up, to prevent the students being
longer harassed by these false statements. You must
be strong enough, precious ones, everywhere and not
accept suggestions from the sinister force; which
would prevent you from gaining your Freedom
through this application. Will you take this up in
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 233
your Study Groups and remind the students of it?
It is up to the students! because individually, the
Messengers cannot always be present to prompt you.
During the classes and at every opportunity they do
prompt the blessed ones everywhere, to be firm and
strong against those things. You are the loser if you
listen to sinister suggestions, precious ones, do you not
see that? You are not harming the Messengers or the
Work; but you are just being deprived of the Glory
which awaits you.
I am so grateful that there are so many of the
Group Leaders here tonight, to have this Radiation
and to go forth carrying it into their meetings. We
sometimes hear the report that small Group Leaders
become discouraged because of the greater activities
in the Larger Groups. We love everyone of the
Groups throughout America, whether they are great
or small. The largeness of the Group does not make
any difference in Our Love; but the Large Groups do
release greater Power. However, do not dissolve your
Small Groups, precious ones, because of that. You do
not know what is done in your meetings through the
Smaller Groups, by your endeavors in issuing these
Decrees. You do not know what a service you might
be rendering; but because the Larger Groups have a
greater momentum is no reason why you should dis­
solve yours.
We want you all to go on with your Groups,
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
234
whether small or large; and do all the work you can
and Our Radiation will pour forth. Oh precious ones,
no one or Group is ever forsaken when they are hon­
est, earnest and sincere. Do you not see that? How
could a Being wholly Perfect fail to render Radia­
tion to any Group who was in earnest? Do you see
that? Do not let the sinister force and suggestion rush
in or disturb you. Go on, and on, with your work,
precious ones; and one day you will rejoice beyond
all words to express, that you did continue to render
this service to your fellow-man and yourselves. In the
service of calling forth all that you wish for yourself
to be given to all mankind too, you are rendering a
mighty service.
You are entering into a Mighty Cosmic Activity.
It is not just an ordinary activity of individual appli­
cation, even in Groups. Now, you are calling forth
the Power of Light through these Great Cosmic Be­
ings and acting within the Great Cosmic Law. Such
Activity has never existed on earth before in any age,
because the action of the Law was not at the point
where it was permitted. Today, you are living in a
time of great, great rejoicing—a time when the Vic­
tory of your achievement is so great and so compara­
tively easy, to what it was three centuries ago.
Shall I digress just a moment here to tell you Our
conversation after last Sunday morning’s service at
Mr. Lanning’s? I think you would be interested. After
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 235
Jesus had dictated His Wonderful Discourse, in con­
versation afterwards, He said to Us who were pres­
ent: “ I rejoiced this morning with those blessed ones
sitting in the open air; for in that time so long ago,
We had to hide in caves and places away from the rest
of mankind, in order to worship as Our Hearts wished
to do. Today, in the open, under the Great Canopy
of Heaven, all may worship as they choose.” He said
it gave Him such a Great Desire to once again pour
forth, as He had not done since the time of His Own
Ministry to mankind. He wants to try to cause you to
feel His Nearness; and the Reality of that which all
could achieve today, but which was started then.
Dear ones, one day when you are privileged to have
These Great Ones stand forth in the tangible, visible
form and talk to you; then will you realize what was
done that morning; what is done tonight; and what
has been done through every Dictation, since the be­
ginning of the Shrine Class.
Just for a moment, still yourselves and feel the
Mighty Freeing Radiation which is pouring forth
from the Group of Ascended Masters here tonight.
Just let It permeate and saturate, your whole atomic
structure; your whole flesh body; and cause those
points of Light within every cell to expand, expand
and expand, until the Light floods your whole being.
Let the Great Light at your heart just expand, and
expand, and expand, until It envelopes and saturates
236 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
your emotional and mental body; cleansing and
purifying every imperfect thing and taking it out of
your emotional or feeling world. Just feel this all
dissolve as if it never had been. Then, feel the Great
Ascended Master Light-Substance from the Love Star
replacing it. Just let It replace and fill every cell of
your body with Its great purifying Substance and
Light. If it is healing your body requires, then say:
“ Great Ascended Master Substance, which is Intel­
ligent, fill all those parts which have been in distress;
dissolve with Your Greater Activity everything that
has been previously acting. Just dissolve it and re­
place it by this Pure, Perfect Substance which gives
me Perfect Health, Joy, Happiness, Strength and
Courage of the ‘Mighty I AM Presence’ and the Great
Host of Ascended Masters.”
Oh Sweet, Precious Presence of Divine Love! flow
in and through and fill each one with Thy Wondrous
Presence. Go out into their worlds and fill all their
activity with Your Presence of Divine Love; which
makes everyone who looks upon them love these
precious ones. Make everyone happy to serve! Give
them encouragement and strength. Then, Great
Source of Light, flood their beings and worlds with
Thy Mighty Radiance! again carrying forth Thy Sub­
stance, Thy Ascended Master Substance from the
Secret Love Star—filling the mind, the body; the
emotional body, the mental body with Light! Light!
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 237
Light! until there is not a single shadow in either
mind, body or world, Great Power of Wisdom, flood
in and through the mind and body of each one! Take
full command of all activity there, causing Your Wis­
dom to act at all times; until no longer do human con­
cepts have power to act. Silence them! that this Great
Wisdom may act at all times in each one, producing
the Three-fold Flame of Life in action.
How We thank Thee Oh Great Presence of Light,
Oh “ Mighty I AM ,” for the Service which Thou hast
rendered this night. We thank Thee Oh Beloved
Jesus, Beloved Saint Germain, Mighty Divine Di­
rector, Beloved Nada, Beloved Cha Ara, Beloved
Chananda, Beloved Lanto, Mighty Gods of the Moun­
tains! We thank Thee, tonight, for this Service ren­
dered to these precious, Oh such very precious ones of
the Light. May this hour never be forgotten in their
continued journey in the Light. May this Radiance
forever enfold and protect them with Its Invincible
Power; directing them by Its Mighty Intelligence, en­
folding them in Its Mighty All-encompassing Love
and Light; that all may feel the Freedom, the Glory,
the Infinite Life and Freedom which is theirs.
We thank Thee, Great Source of all Light, for Thy
Service rendered tonight! Great Group of Ascended
Masters, amplify this Feeling within these precious
ones, and each day make all more powerful; more cer­
tain within their feeling; more firm to keep out all
238 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
undesirable things. Make them stand with the spine
straight, receiving into their minds and bodies and
pouring out into their worlds Thy Great and Mighty
Purifying Substance. It carries within It all supply
of everything that is required, which will take form
according to the degree that you call it forth into
action. If it be money you require: “ ‘Mighty I AM
Presence,’ release from your Great Treasure-house
into my world, this needed supply and see that it is
done now; see that all feeling contrary to this action
is silenced and held in abeyance by me.” Then, as
you continue to make your call, be firm and sure
within yourself.
If it be health you want: “ ‘Mighty I AM Presence’
I stand a recepticale for Your Pure Energy! Send It
forth through my body! Sweep out every imperfection
and replace it by Your Perfect Health.” Then, do not
accept any feeling to the contrary; but just go on
glorified, more each day with the certainty of your
Freedom, Victory, health, supply and the Glory of
Life—the ‘‘Mighty I AM Presence”—which enables
you to be here. The Glory of that Life is waiting to
flood your Being with Its Purity and Perfection. As
your attention is given wholly to your “ I AM Pres­
ence,” then only Perfection can flow forth.
Oh, Precious ones, if you are calling for the Di­
rection of your “ Mighty I AM Presence” and some­
times find you have made a mistake, do not be dis-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 239
turbed. Go right on and call, saying: “ ‘Mighty I AM
Presence,’ I have made a mistake, I call on the Law of
Forgiveness. If I have misappropriated your Great
Energy, I call on the Law of Forgiveness, but I am
dauntless in having your Mighty Intelligence, which
is clear and definite, without limit.” As you do this
you shall have it.
My Love and Blessings and that of the Ascended
Ones gathered here enfold you always, in Our Mighty
Radiance, calling you on, and on, and on; until that
day, when you stand in the Glory of your Mighty
Electronic Presence, a Free Ascended Being. I thank
you.
C H A N A N D A ’ S D I S C O U R S E
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
JANUARY 2 0 , 1937
W
IT H you who have read the Magic Pres­
ence, I feel well acquainted, for you know
to Us there is no time, space nor absence.
While reading of the experiences which occurred
within Our Domain, every time you touch upon them
you are in touch with Our Center of Wondrous Ac­
tivity. Do you realize that, Oh precious Students of
the Light? I say to those who might think they have
read those books sufficiently: do you realize that just
the words you read are only a part of this great, this
Mighty Activity? It is your attention to these Great
Focuses of Light, which I want you to understand is
the important thing. Only as your attention is fixed
upon the Words describing these Places, which are
very Real, can you have the fulness of all that is wait­
ing to be given you.
It is so with the Cave of Symbols. It is so with the
Golden City, the Golden Etheric City; and it is so
with the Retreat in Arabia. Beloved, precious ones,
these things are no myth, no part of anyone’s imagina­
tion! They are real physical places, Mighty Focuses
of Light and Power and Wisdom, by which humanity
240
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 241
are held in the Light. Does this sound drastic to you—
held from their own destruction? Do you not see,
precious Students of the Light, if there were not some
very great Assistance, the viciousness of mankind un­
controlled would destroy human beings completely?
If it had not been for the Reality of the Ascended
Masters throughout the ages, beginning with the
Kumaras from Venus, humanity would not exist to­
day! This is a mighty vital Truth. I call your attention
to It that you may be more grateful to those Blessed,
Blessed Ones Who were the Vanguards of the Chil­
dren of Light, in establishing and holding in obedi­
ence the destructive activity of the people of earth;
until that day when their attention could again be
drawn to their Individualized Source, the “ Mighty
I AM.”
If enough people would take hold, call forth the
Activity of the Presence; use these Mighty Decrees;
flood Its Light into the earth; into the mental and
feeling world of mankind today; the work which
humanity must have done for them can come forth
now. They must have this Assistance today, if they
are ever to survive. I call your attention to the ac­
tivities of strikes. What do you think is back of them?
Certainly no constructive thing! Many of those people
are honest and sincere in believing there is a con­
structive activity back of them. I tell you there is not!
It cannot be! It is not possible! Both sides of the ac-
242 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
tivity are out of agreement, which means a destructive
activity!
The only possible solution that can come for man­
kind today, individually or collectively, nationally or
internationally is for enough of the people to call
their own “ Mighty I AM Presence” into action; to
produce these results; hold the protection and pro­
duce the Perfection which is required. The human
will not do that of itself! So, today, the opportunity
stands before the Students of the “ I AM ,” because
the rest of humanity do not know how. The “ I AM ”
Students must render this service for the blessing of
all the mass of mankind. There is no other way to help
the people out of their own discord.
Let Me call your attention to this. Look at every
source of knowledge which has ever come forth to
bless the people. There has been no source on the
face of the earth that has ever taught individuals how
to use these Mighty Decrees; which go forth in the
mental and feeling world of the people to produce
results for them. I know some of you blessed ones still
wonder how far reaching these Decrees are. I tell
you the time is rapidly approaching, when you are
going to see the gigantic effects they do produce. The
most marvelous results are being attained by issuing
these Decrees individually, as well as in the Mighty
Groups who are issuing them all over America.
I tell you the destructive force has no power longer
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 243
to agitate and disturb the people. Let every “ I AM ”
Student and everyone who knows of the “ I AM
Presence” issue these Mighty Decrees: to silence for­
ever that invisible destructive element which prods
people in violence, physical rebellion and all that
kind of thing, in the belief they are forcing Divine
Justice. Such a thing is impossible! It cannot be done!
You cannot through the human activity force Divine
Justice! It must come through the Power of Divine
Love generated by mankind. This is why you, as
Students of the ‘‘I AM ,” have a great privilege and a
joy before you; in bringing about this Transcendent
Activity and change which must come. It cannot come
from any source that does not know the Mighty Power
of the ‘‘I AM .”
We give all praise and blessing to every channel of
Light that has ever brought any Light to the people;
but this knowledge of the “ I AM ” is the final Knowl­
edge which is to set humanity free, regardless of any
human opinion. We know this from the Ascended
Master’s standpoint! All of Us have applied this
identical Knowledge that Saint Germain has brought
to you for your Freedom. We applied It with earnest
firm determination and have the results. So you must
see that only from an Ascended Master Activity,
which has gained Freedom by this identical applica­
tion, can you have the Encouragement, the Strength,
the Assistance to sustain you; until you grasp the reins
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
244
of your own Dominion sufficiently, to sustain your
own power and activity through your Presence.
Precious ones, today, your joy should be the great­
est ever known on earth. I am frank to say in the ma­
jority of the “ I A M ” Students it is so; but in your
Knowledge of this Presence, dear hearts, do not longer
allow your intellect to interrupt or interfere with It.
Just go on and on calling this ‘‘Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” into action with firm, calm, determination. Say
to everything that has any appearance of less than
Perfection: “ I instantly withdraw all power from you!
You are helpless to affect me or my world” ! Oh my
precious ones, you can do this with such speed and
activity that soon nothing discordant will attempt to
touch your world.
Dear ones, it is such a great joy for Us to continue
to remind you of these simple majestic activities. They
are clothing you more and more each day with the
certain definite Consciousness that you are really
Master of your world. It is not so difficult. It is only
because unknowingly sometimes individuals still ac­
cept through the feeling the old ideas. Do not be dis­
couraged, if once in a while those things intrude; or
you find them acting in your feeling world. Just with
a calm serenity say: ‘‘Oh no you human activity, you
are finished! you cannot act! I do not give you any
further power to act in my world! Therefore, you are
helpless” ! As you take a firm determined stand, do
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 245
you see that the human qualities cannot act in your
world longer to produce unhappiness for you?
Please remember that We are not eavesdropping;
but in our Great Joy We watch—Oh, We have to do
it—
watch the progress of the beloved students every­
where. Can you not feel My Joy this moment as We
call your attention to the mighty progress which has
been made? Oh, in so short a time, precious ones!
Not one of you beloved earnest students, who con­
siders yourself one hundred percent for the “ I AM ,”
is the same being at all that you were even a year ago
—not in the slightest. You may still look like you did;
but yet I say from the Inner standpoint, you are in
no wise the same being. Then, you can understand
why Our Joy is so very great.
May I say a word for the encouragement of a few
of the precious ones who sometimes, when conditions
sort of suddenly confront them and they do not quite
see the way out, feel all-gone for a little while. Dear
ones, remember it is not you! It is just a sinister sug­
gestion which unknotvingly, you have allowed to
register in your feelings. Instantly, turn on it and tell
it it has no power, and you will dismiss it! Do you see
that when you do this with firm determination, you
take out of the quality, which is starting to act, any
power whatsoever to affect you longer? It is just
simply marvelous, when you find you have the au­
thority and power to do this.
246 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
No earnest precious one is ever forsaken, dear
hearts, once you have touched this Light. Oh, it is so
wonderful to know how the Great Ones are watching
over you—watching for the opportunity at your call,
to amplify and assist you in every way—in ways you
could not outwardly imagine. In the activity of the
Great Cosmic Light, which has become so tremendous
in the outer world today, Oh precious ones, accept Its
full Power to act in your world.
I say to you that by the end of June or July many
of you will know the Truth of which I have spoken
tonight. This is no idle activity; you have entered into
a Mighty Stream of Light, and unless you deliber­
ately and wilfully turn aside from It, It will serve you
without limit. Do you realize how greatly privileged
you are, to be the vanguards of this Work which Saint
Germain has brought forth? Why were you chosen?
Why are you here in these Groups? Why have you
been in these Classes? Not by just happening to be
so. For your great encouragement I say to you with
all the Love and Power at My Command: you are
here because your Light was strong enough to make
it possible for you to be selected. You were chosen
among the first of the “ I AM ” Students to have this
Knowledge and to spread this Mighty Radiance forth.
That is why, dear hearts, you are here. It is why the
great intensity of the Light from your hearts has
drawn you close into this Great Stream of Life. It
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 247
should be of the greatest encouragement in the world
to every one of you. This is not to pat you on the back,
Oh far from it, but to give you in your feeling world
the Mighty Courage and Strength, because it is true.
Your own Light drew you and made you a part of this
Great Activity.
You are the choosers of what shall come into your
world. Remember this! You can, in the knowledge of
your Presence, dismiss anything that you do not want.
Assert your power in the acknowledgment of your
“ Mighty I AM Presence.” I want to remind you again
tonight, precious ones, that when you call your
“ Mighty I AM Presence” into action there is no other
authority in the Universe.
If you wish to give assistance to someone, you do
not have to ask that person’s permission in calling
their “ Mighty I AM Presence” into action; because
It is the full Law and Authority of their being and
wants Perfection to reign there; so you cannot take
a chance. Do not ever let your human intellect make
you wonder, if you should do this or that; when you
wish to call the “ I AM Presence” into action to bless
or help anyone. The Presence is the Authority! You
are but making the call for their Freedom and Per­
fection. You, outwardly, are not doing anything but
calling Perfection into the outer world, and every­
one on earth has a right to do it. So watch out! Be free
from any interference in your mental activity through
248 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
wondering, if you have the right to do this or that.
You have all right and authority to call the “ Mighty
I AM Presence” into action at any time to produce
Perfection for another. Do not let anything make you
waver in that, for in a call for others, you gain tre­
mendously for yourselves.
I know among some of mankind people have been
taught that it is selfish to be free. If one individual
waited for the rest of humanity to be free, who do not
want their freedom, it would be a long process would
it not in attaining Perfection? Therefore, your part
in the world is to call your “ Mighty I AM Presence”
into action to produce Perfection for you. As you
gain in your own Perfection, your ability, your
strength is ten, twenty or fifty times greater; to give
assistance and to call the Presence of others into action
to produce Its Perfection for them. This is why the
Ascended Master is limitless in His Power and Ac­
tivity, in His Power to give Assistance, according to
the Law of the individual. Now that the Great Cosmic
Law has permitted more Assistance to be given, you
can be free, if you will.
You precious ones have the Law. Now apply it to
your Freedom. Do not let a single thing daunt you in
the slightest in making your application. Keep it up,
until you have the outer manifestation of the Per­
fection you decree and which your heart desires.
There is nothing in the world, but yourself that can
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 249
keep you from it, dear hearts. Oh, how these beloved
Messengers have poured forth dynamic application
for your Freedom. They will continue to do it, until
you have your Eternal Freedom. Remember! these
blessed ones are still in the atomic structure of the
earth with you; and their firmness in the call to your
“ Mighty I AM Presence’’ for your Freedom is dyna­
mite. It does and will produce results in spite of any
human qualification.
Dear ones, will you not join with these beloved
Messengers in pouring forth the call to the “ Mighty
I AM Presence” to produce Perfection for every “ I
AM ” Student throughout America and the world?
They never cease! Will you be kind enough to join
in a never-ceasing activity of calling the “ Mighty I
AM Presence” into action to produce Its Perfection
in the world everywhere; in industry; in all activities;
in official places everywhere? The blessed ones in
those positions need strength to keep them within the
reach of the Law of Divine Justice.
Through this a Service can be rendered today
never before known in the history of the earth. This
Work, in the momentum which has gone forth is pro­
ducing results in the Inner Activity of the world.
You would be positively astonished, if you were sud­
denly able to witness it. We see all of this from the
Inner standpoint, dear hearts; and We would not
utter a word to you that is not true. We speak of these
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
250
things only to give you strength and encouragement
and to show you what your tremendous effort is pro­
ducing. It is producing results beyond your fondest
expectation and hope. They will come into outer
manifestation. You will see and know, as the Mes­
sengers have in the hundreds of instances, where the
application has been made earnestly and firmly, the
results have been produced! It is only the beginning
of the great mass activity which will go forth and
produce such great results in the world.
Our Love is so great for precious humanity who
can and will accept this great, great Light which Saint
Germain has brought forth. One day, I shall ask per­
mission of the Great Divine Director to tell you some­
thing about Saint Germain, which you do not know.
That Mighty Presence has done more for mankind
than any other Ascended Master Who has ever lived.
Some of you may think I am belittling Jesus in this
statement. That is not true! Jesus rendered a Mighty
Service as the Messengers have told you; leaving the
Etheric Record of the Ascension—a Mighty Thing!
but His Service has not been continuous from the Self-
conscious application, as in the activity of Saint Ger­
main in the Work He has done for centuries. Remem­
ber! Saint Germain’s Work, which has been called
to your outer attention, began seventy thousand years
ago. He and the Beloved Nada have carried many
civilizations to their heights. That is what the outer
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 251
world, who have questioned Saint Germain, needs to
know and shall know.
I stand as the Champion of His Mighty Activity
to all mankind and shall always do so! Jesus has
asked Me to make this Statement to you tonight!
Saint Germain has had the Courage and took upon
Himself the responsibility of bringing many civiliza­
tions to their heights. Each time, He has carried it
through with the Assistance of the Beloved Nada.
These are things, precious ones, which the outer
world is going to come to know. It is why His Work,
today, cannot be interfered with by any human sin­
ister thing! We thank the Great Presence of the “ I
AM ” with all the Love at Our command; that these
Beloved Messengers have had the strength, which He
saw within them, to carry on without being destroyed,
and that will continue!
Dear hearts, will you believe it, when again I assert:
you have entered a Mighty Stream of Light which no
human destructive thing has any power to interfere
with or retard Its onward Progress. Every destructive
element, watch it! will be swept aside, as a feather in
a wind storm: until the Goal, the Freedom of human­
ity is reached. Is it any wonder that you, the precious
Children of the Light, pour forth such great Love
to these blessed ones; when you have found those who
have had the Inner Strength to do this? They have the
strength and the courage to tell the students when and
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
252
if they are making a mistake, and to hold them with
all loving-kindness, in obedience to the suggestion of
the Divine Director and those whose Wisdom knows
the things that need to be done.
Today, beloved ones, with all the Great Firmness
at Our command, We pour into your feeling world
the same Great Firmness and Authority; to stand in­
vincible in your “ Mighty I AM Presence” ; until Its
whole Perfection has swept into your outer world’s
activity; produced Its Perfection and holds Its Do­
minion forever. There is no power in opposition to
this Great Light anywhere in the Universe!
Show Me any teachers in the outer world who have
poured forth so continuously such great Love as these
Messengers have poured forth to the students every­
where. It is unparalleled in the history of the earth,
and instead of diminishing, It is every day expanding.
How can any earnest student allow a single feeling to
register in his or her being but Love for these blessed
ones. Your Freedom, precious ones, comes in your
love poured out to your “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
Saint Germain and these Messengers.
Remember! Saint Germain had the Courage and
Power and Strength to bring this forth. These beloved
Messengers have had, under His Direction, the power
and strength and courage to carry forth this Message;
in the face of the most destructive element mankind
has ever sent forth. I say that to you with Authority!
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 253
The Ascended Masters, the Legion of Light, the
Great White Brotherhood, the Great Cosmic Beings,
and the Gods of the Mountains; seeing this, have all
joined in this Activity with the determination to set
mankind free; if the people will but give their atten­
tion to Them—first, to their “ Mighty I AM Presence”
and then to These Great Beings. This is why, again
tonight, We call your attention to this Mighty Activ­
ity, your immeasurable privilege; not only to have
your Freedom, but the great assistance you can pour
forth to bless each other and all mankind. Will you
not do this, Oh precious ones, whom We Love beyond
all words to express?
Will you not with renewed determination stand
with greater determination, stronger and more power­
fully with your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” in calling
It forth in great calm determination? Oh do not,
please precious ones, have any frenzied activity in
calling your Presence into action; but with a great
calm serene activity that releases such great Power
from the Presence, enter into It. Feel, Oh feel, the
Glory of your Presence flowing in and through you;
beautifying, perfecting, and giving you Perfect
Health in body and mind. Then, let it flow out into
your world with Its Mighty Irresistible Power to pro­
duce harmony and Perfection there; holding every­
thing in obedience to this Great Presence and Light;
until everything of a discordant nature is swept out of
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
254
your world and out of the world of all humanity.
That is what We want you to have. With all the
Love at Our command and with Oh, such great
Gratitude, We pour forth Assistance to blessed man­
kind who have been willing to accept this Knowledge
of the “ Mighty I A M ” ; and carry on in this Work in­
dividually and collectively, producing such great re­
sults. We thank you and in deepest gratitude, We
bow before that Great Presence which beats your
heart, calling It into action in greater, greater and
greater Dominion in your mind, body, home and
world. Out of the fulness of Its Great Strength,
Power and Perfection may It reign; holding Its Do­
minion in you and your world; producing each day
greater and greater Perfection and blessings to you
and your associates.
In the fulness of the Power, the Wisdom and the
Light of the Great Host of Ascended Masters, am­
plifying your call to your “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
we call tonight. We call this tremendously, eternally
sustained Charge into your world and activity; caus­
ing It to produce Its results and Perfection for you.
We charge you individually with the Great Ascended
Master Substance which will assist you greatly in
gaining your Dominion; but do not give power to
anything else but your Presence! There is no other
power in your world but your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” ! If you give power to something else, the fault
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 255
is yours. You know the difference and from now on
you may not accept discordant appearances. You may
only accept the full Power and Perfection of your
Presence flowing out into your world.
If you accept the appearance of less than Perfection,
then again the fault is yours. I plead with you, stand
guard through your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” so
you do not in the feeling accept anything ever again
but Its full Power and Action. Then, quickly your
world will be set into Divine Order, and flooded with
the Glory, the joy, happiness and supply of every­
thing required right at hand; to glorify you and allow
you to serve in the fullest most powerful manner that
any heart desires.
Tonight in the fulness of the Blessing which is
pouring forth to you, will you not accept It, with great
loving kindness; feeling Its Supremacy taking com­
mand to act in your world; until you through the full
conscious feeling, feel the Dominion of your Presence
to forever sustain you?
Tonight, We leave Our Blessings with you and
cause them to be ever active and wholly sustained, in
through and for you, your home and your world. I
thank you.
P E L L E U R ’ S D I S C O U R S E
GREENWICH VILLAGE, NEW YORK
OCTOBER 13, 1937
B
ELOVED ones of the Light, today I take the op­
portunity of drawing your attention to the
recent experiences of some of the students. We
from the Interior of the Earth are co-operating with
the Great Cosmic Light and with that which is on the
surface of the earth; to hasten the release of the great­
est possible Perfection for the earth.
In the experience of the people in Washington,
D. C. who saw the sinister cloud dissolved and con­
sumed, the Ray from underneath came from within
the earth. If through your attention, you understand
this co-operative Activity of all the Forces of Life;
you will understand how the most gigantic Activity
of the Forces of Light has been focused upon the
earth at this time. It is the most concentrated focus
projected forth since the second Golden Age, when
such Great Perfection reigned everywhere.
Mankind have drawn away from the Light and
their “ I AM Presence” voluntarily; and they must
go back of their own volition. With this enormous
Assistance which is being given, what would have re­
quired centuries may be accomplished in just a few
¡256
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 257
years. You must understand, in your individual lives,
as well as the Life of the earth and the nations; that
the Light of the Presence, or the greater expansion
of It, which you call the Cosmic Light is coming into
action in the earth in your outer experience.
Your airplane propeller and fan are perhaps the
most logical explanations of the Inner Forces acting.
When you spin them at a certain speed, you intensify
not only the action but the invisibility. When they go
at such rapid speed that you do not see them with the
physical sight, still you are conscious of their effect
and activity. In the Activity which is coming forth
at this time, you will not always see the Power that is
acting; but you will see the outer effect of Its mani­
festation. I urge all of you, especially those who are
intense: please do not allow your attention to focus
upon any definite outer manifestation. Just go on in
your application, letting the Wisdom of the Presence
direct the manifestation.
I say this for a reason, because We have seen among
the students those, who just because it would be such
a great joy, really long in their feelings for the Pres­
ence of the Ascended Masters or some manifestation
of unusual Power. That of course in itself is quite all
right; but the trouble is, dear ones, a dividing of your
attention.
Let the Wisdom of your Presence within, bring
that all about in Its own good time. You, a Being of
258 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
free will, have drawn about yourself these limitations,
which individuals are experiencing today. The im­
perative thing for all is to focus their attention upon
the Presence; which will allow the dissolving and
consuming of every discordant creation you have
drawn about you; or any kind of creation which is
less than Perfection. This must be cleared away before
it would be wise to release some other things, which
will be released. Your discordant creation must be
consumed before the revealing of the Presence of the
Ascended Masters can take place.
Oh, how ready They are to come forth! As you have
heard so many times, Their Wisdom knows best.
They will not jeopardize the Great Achievement of
today, for the satisfying even of blessed earnest ones
in some things, which would otherwise be easily and
readily brought forth. Just be patient in whatever
you individually would like. First allow the Great
Activity to be focused for the protection and blessing
of America, for that is the most imperative need to­
day.
Remember, We were driven into the Interior of the
earth by the discord on its surface. We were once on
the surface of the earth as part of humanity in ages
past, just as you are today; but We were driven into
the Interior by the invading hordes whom We did not
care to slaughter; so We withdrew out of their reach.
In Our Civilization within the Interior of the earth
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 259
there is no discord; because Our people are trained
from childhood to be harmonious. We have means
of maintaining harmony. If there be anything dis­
cordant in the past Life Stream of the individual, We
look down the Life Stream and, with the permission
of the individual, dissolve and consume all that is
undesirable, which might have been generated on the
surface of the earth.
Beloved ones, there are so many wonderful things
which mankind will come to know, and such infor­
mation will give great joy. Yet humanity’s most im­
perative need today is to hold each one’s attention
upon the “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Then, Its Power
may flow forth to do what is required at this time.
Afterwards, just think of it, you can be taught to come
and go from your body; just the same and just as
easily, as you pass from this room into the next. Leto
has performed that service for Rex, Bob, Nada and
Pearl. It is only because mankind has not understood
all these Inner Powers, which are all so natural and
are the Real Ones, that they think such activities un­
usual. The outer experience of mankind is but a
make-believe existence. It is not the Real.
As you keep your attention to your Presence and
with great firm determination keep calling Its Power
into action, then all human accumulation will quickly
be dissolved; all accumulation of whatever is unde­
sirable will be dissolved. As the Power of the Presence
26o ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
flows through, individuals will be lifted so they can
come and go naturally from the body. Then you are
free! Even as you sit here today, if Leto were to come
into the room in Her Tangible Body and take you
one by one; release you from the body and send you
forth; you would be able to do it, just as naturally
as you go from one room to another and from one
home to another.
All of these Powers are natural. Please feel that!
Then, it will be so much easier for you to come into
their action and use. The trouble with mankind has
been, because a subject touched upon something they
had not heard of, the human immediately sets up a
barrier and either says or feels: “ I doubt that! I don’t
believe that is so” ! Immediately, so far as that indi­
vidual is concerned, it shuts the door to him from
having further information concerning the subject,
which might be touched upon at this time. Ofttimes
the individual shuts the door to other things which
would be a natural activity of his own being coming
to him. I tell you there are tens of thousands of people
in your America today, whose Light is very great and
who have had previous understanding, as is the case
with many of you.
Therefore, now notice this carefully! they experi­
enced possibly something tragic in the outer Life,
which caused them to turn away from this Light.
That experience is still having its effect upon them.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 261
It is why some people doubt so tragically. They do
not know what the cause of the doubt is, and it is why
so many people use your ordinary expression—“ show
me” ! Well you might show individuals—I mean the
doubting Thomases—you might show them the Pres­
ence of an Ascended Being and before twenty-four
hours were over their heads, they would swear they
had been hypnotized and it was not so. It is not the
real individual, who would do that; but it is the ac­
cumulation from past centuries of doubts and fears.
Just because they fear a thing, they doubt it.
If you were to look back into the Life Stream of
individuals who have used the expression of doubt;
you would find back of their doubt is fear of the thing
they doubt. This is why, today in the attention to the
Presence, all these qualities of mankind are swept out
of existence.
You are fortunate indeed who are freeing your­
selves from all these things; because after all, dear
blessed people, you are the ones who are to be bene­
fited. Unless you make earnest call to your “ I AM
Presence” and stand by It, you will be affected by the
doubts, fears and conditions of mankind about you;
and if you allow them to prevent your Victory, well
then you alone would be to blame. That is the way
with all mankind who have doubts and fears. They
think that they are performing some service, when
it is but their own creation preventing them from the
2Ö2 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
Freedom, which in each one of their hearts, they
really crave.
In Our Assistance, Oh, how great is the Joy. Some­
times, I have longed to bring you here to visit Us;
and see in this Great Wonderful Blaze of Light, Its
great calm Stillness and Peace; and the soft White
Light which has neither night or day. In it, all is a
great calm Peace, free from the agitation and tur­
moil at the surface of the earth.
Remember! Our Service to the earth is quite won­
derful; because We are able to release from within
a Radiance which is helping tremendously, to dissolve
and consume the astral or psychic world. I notice
today many whose attention has been upon Astrea, a
Being Who is rendering the most amazing Service
to the surface of the earth. He is not only dissolving
and consuming all the qualities and conditions that
make the astral or psychic world, which is next to the
surface of the earth; but He is consuming those same
qualities and conditions also for the individuals who
are making such earnest and intense call for that to be
done. Astrea, Oromosis and the Archangel Michael
are rendering a Service to the earth which one day,
you will all see, know and understand how very great
It has been.
Rejoice, beloved ones, in all that is going forth.
Even since your arrival in New York, how marvelous
the Blessing has been, only the Great Ones alone
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 263
know. Just rejoice and do not be disturbed or af­
fected by the outer appearance world. It really has no
power to affect individuals who will say to that ap­
pearance and stand by it: “ You have no power! in the
knowledge of my ‘Mighty I AM Presence.’ ” You can­
not just say that physically and have the desired effect;
but you can, in the knowledge of your Presence—as
the one speaking—say to all human appearances:
“You have no power” ! and they immediately cease
to have power, so far as your individual Life is con­
cerned. Try to feel that always!
I think I should perhaps call your attention today
to the privilege you have to call forth more energy
when you want to rest at night. If your time is cut
short by the needed service of the outer world, you
can have the rest in two hours which you ordinarily
have in eight; if you but consciously call your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” into action to produce that Blessing
for you. Do you not see how your Presence answers
every call?
Then be careful iuhat you do in the morning, when
you first aivaken. Through old habit, your attention
begins to contemplate conditions of the outer world.
If you will take your stand and as soon as you become
conscious, focus your attention on your “ Mighty I
AM Presence,” the affairs of the outer world will not
rush into your consciousness and begin to act so
quickly. It will give you time to call your Presence
364 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
to charge your feeling world with Its Direction,
Wisdom, Energy, harmony and Perfection for the
day’s requirement. Then, you will have stabilized
yourself for the day.
Dear people, you can do this so easily, but it means
you must do it consciously. You turned away from
the Presence consciously and you must do these things
in your return to the Presence consciously. That is
the need of mankind today. The Presence does not
act independently of your conscious call. I should
qualify that statement just a little in this respect.
When you have continued earnestly with great de­
termination to call your “ Mighty I AM Presence”
into action; then you gain a momentum of the Power
of your Presence and draw It forth into the activity
of the outer world. You will find innumerable things
being done with what you call the involuntary action;
but that means you have established a momentum by
your conscious call to the “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
These things sound very simple in worded expres­
sion; but they contain a Power indescribable within
them. Beloved ones, as you understand these Laws
and apply them every step is definite, powerful and
permanent. Every call you make is answered. Suppose
today, you started in with a definite call for some
specific purpose and you keep that up three times a
day in regular succession. Every time you call, you
have raised yourself one step, nearer your achieve-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 265
ment. That is real; that is permanent! Everything you
do in the call to your “ Mighty I AM Presence” be­
comes a permanent thing. Every inch you gain in the
call to your Presence remains. You will never slide
back from that point, because you cannot.
This is a wholly different activity for human beings
in their application, than from the old metaphysical
standpoint; because, by mental power you repel a
thing, but that does not mean it is consumed. You
might be free of it yourself, or it might come back;
but in the accomplishment of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” it is done forever; so far as your own en-
bodiment is concerned or your own achievement.
It is also consumed from the atmosphere of earth.
Today, the Great Ones are so joyous in having
drawn the Pillar of Light and the Unfed Flame into
the home of this blessed one and her family. Her
heart is so wonderful, so firm to the Light and so
unyielding to all else! Why do you suppose certain
individuals are drawn together? Some of you will
remember in the West not so long ago, a certain
Group was drawn together. Today, again, a Group
has been drawn together; because these individuals
belong together. We cannot take the time today,
but perhaps sometime in the future, We shall tell
you how you rendered a great service to the Light
while you were together. Then, you will all rejoice
and feel very much closer than you do even now.
266 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
Why? Why is it, that out of the millions of people in
America, certain individuals should be drawn to this
blessed one’s home today? Do you not see it is a Great
Law acting? Things do not just happen, for a Great
Inner Law is always acting.
T ry to feel such rejoicing in all that is being done;
and to any appearance of the outer world, Oh, be so
happy in looking that appearance straight in the face
and saying to it: “ You have no power to limit or
affect mankind” ! Not only do you say that for your­
self and feel it; but to every discordant thing and
appearance in the outer world, say: “ You have no
power to affect, limit or disturb mankind again.” As
you feel the Power in your Decree, you will put forth
the assistance which is needed.
Oh, just think of it! You are in this Radiance. It
is becoming more and more natural to you, but think
of those who are so far out of Our Radiance that they
do not even imagine what it means. They need Our
Assistance, Oh, how greatly they need it! Never be dis­
couraged or disturbed, if someone does not accept
this Understanding. At any time individuals fail to
temporarily accept It, just change the subject and call
their “ Mighty I AM Presence” into action in Its
full Power; to take command of that mind and body,
produce Its Perfection and hold Its Dominion there.
Such a call will render a great, great service. The
human cannot govern these things, but the “ Mighty
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 267
I AM Presence” called into action will always do it.
You remember the experience in Miami, Florida-
most of you have heard it: when a lady came into the
class and was so incensed at Mrs. Ballard’s reading
from the manuscript, that she rushed out of the place
condemning the Messengers and the Work. This
good Messenger came along and someone told him
about it. Ordinarily, he would have said: “ God bless
her,” and have forgotten it; but instead, he said:
‘“ Mighty I AM Presence’! seize her and bring her
back.” She came back and became a very blessed
student.
Sometimes, there are certain individuals where a
sudden dynamic call to the Presence would release
them. It is not always the case. However, you have no
idea just what anyone’s Presence will do for anyone,
if you call It forth into action. That is why I am
bringing this point to your attention. You have no
idea what anyone’s Presence will do, even if the outer
does refuse acceptance for the moment. Your intense,
dynamic call to the Presence opens the door and how
do you know but what the next hour will release the
individual completely, into the understanding of the
Presence and this Light.
Today, in the fulness of this Great Love and har­
mony, I congratulate the blessed hostess on the great
earnest intensity with which she has drawn the Radi­
ance into the home. It has been the Joy of the Great
268 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
Ones today to assist in amplifying this Radiance; and
in using a permanent Activity which will forever con­
tinue to expand; to give her greater happiness, greater
assistance, greater consciousness of her own Domin­
ion; in her call to the “ Mighty I AM Presence” to
produce the results she requires.
While you were in the dining room, each one of
you was enveloped in the particular Radiance which
is required for you individually. It will continue
until you have absorbed every particle of It, into
the atomic structure of your body. Others have
been rendering to you Their Service. Today, I shall
render Mine. Maybe it is not so great as some, but
still it is helpful. It has been My Joy to enfold you—
each one—in this Radiance; so you may absorb It and
let It do Its Perfect Work in the atomic structure of
your body. Many of you have been calling this forth,
so again your call has been answered. Of course you
understand that in all Our Assistance, the amplifica­
tion of your call to your “ Mighty I AM Presence” is
also acting.
I rejoice in how still you are able to become. Do
you know how stillness really is produced? It can only
come by the quieting of your emotional body and
feeling world. When you are able to enter into the
stillness which is here now; you will know that you
are gaining control and Mastery over your feeling
world. It is the feeling world that gets agitated and
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 269
makes you restless. Take firm command of it and
every time it wants to wiggle around say: “ Now settle
right down here and be quiet” ! Soon, you will gain
such Mastery that you will have no difficulty what­
soever. If you choose to, just sit without moving a
muscle for hours, you will be able to do it. That is
the gaining of Mastery over the atomic structure,
which has run riot in every conceivable feeling. Is
it not strange that mankind have been so governed by
the sense of feeling in the outer world; when beating
each heart is the Great Calm Sea of the Eternal
Silence?
Only in the great mountains does the outer world
find the Great Silence so naturally expressed. There
you can sit and feel Absolute Stillness and as you
speak, your voice will come back to you from the
distance. Today, in this room, you have entered into
the Great Silence, which the Silent Watcher estab­
lished for you last night. Will you feel It; let It en­
fold you; grasp the atomic structure of your form, and
hold it within Our Great Silence, until every vibra­
tory action is stilled? Then, by your power of quali­
fication, call your “ Mighty I AM Presence” to sustain
It forever. At any moment you wish to re-enter this
wondrous state of Silence, you are able to do so.
I call It to your attention today. Please watch It.
It has thus been established. When you wish to again
return into this Silence, you will find you can do it
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
270
instantly; sometimes out of very great seeming
agitation. T ry to accept this in the fulness of Its
Power and let It act for you.
Does it sound unkind to say to the human form:
“ You helpless creature! You who have taken so much
credit to yourself are without power of Action, ex­
cept from the Presence of Life”? True it is! This
atomic structure is helpless without the Ray of Light
and Energy which gives it Life in action. In this
Stream of Life is all Intelligence, all Power, all Ac­
tivity of achievement. It is not limited! Then, do you
not see how not only your freedom from limitations
can be obtained quickly, but even your Ascension?
There is no outer reason. This Stream of Light is the
One who performs that service for you. It is All-wise
and All-powerful. Why not have your Ascension?
Try to feel how practical all these magnificent
things are, even the Ascension; the Goal of all Life.
I mean so far as your outer physical Life is concerned.
It is the Goal of all Life. Of course, you go on, and on,
and on, in ever-expanding Magnificent Activity.
You, who are sitting in this room, perhaps far
sooner than you dream, will be wielding Power which
today seems so incredible to you; so much so that it
seems impossible. Yet I say with anyone of you, there is
nothing impossible—even today, in the Power of your
“ Mighty I AM Presence” released into action. Try to
feel It. Let It have full Power and Sway! Let It have
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 271
Dominion! Let Its Glory flood you and all your world!
I thank you, beloved Lotus, for your recent call
to Me. Remember! the Light is taking Its Dominion
upon the earth. T ry to feel and rejoice, all of you,
in the fulness of all that is before you. Oh, you are
just in the beginning as yet. Glories you cannot con­
ceive of are before you, in the Great Calm Peace
within, which enables the Power of the Presence to
flow forth at your call—unqualified by any imperfec­
tion. It will flood forth so quickly to fill your body
with health; your world with peace, harmony and
the Perfection of the Presence, releasing every good
thing that you require.
The Great Ones wish Me to convey Their Love and
Blessing to each one of you. Feel this day a second
step in the Great Victory gained. May I say before
closing to our beloved hostess; that I knew your
beloved son in the long past and in his journey, I
shall ofttimes be with him. He was in Our Civilization
at the time We entered into the Interior of the
earth, so I knew him quite well. That is why I loved
to come to your home today and leave with you, your
family and all, My Love and Blessings, with Its en­
folding, expanding protecting Radiance and Glory.
I trust by his attention being called to Me, that he
will ofttimes be conscious of My Presence. That will
enable Me to do many things which I should like to
do for him.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
272
With the Love and Blessing of the Great Ones, We
enfold you now in Their Eternal ever-perfecting
Presence and Activity. May each blessed one of you
be blest with the fulness of the Infinite Power of
Light. I say to you, beloved Lotus; what a marvelous
thing it is to broadcast to the world the Power of
Light! because It is the Incoming Power of the world.
It is the Power—Incoming Power of America.
Every blessed one’s call has been intensified in your
acknowledgment of your “ Mighty I AM Presence’’
since yesterday; so enter into a greater and greater
joy and intensity in your call: “ The limitless Legions
of Light sweep across the face of the earth, and all
human darkness disappears” ! That is a Clarion Call
which goes to the uttermost Powers of Light. Perhaps
no other call for the need today is so great as that.
Why? Because all activity within the earth or upon its
surface must be directed by Wisdom and Intelligence.
Therefore, in the realm of the Activity of the Cosmic
Light, the Legions of Light means the Great Ascended
Masters, the Great Cosmic Beings, the Great Cosmic
Masters and Legions of Light combined. It means
that the Great Intelligence and Wisdom of the Uni­
verse has come into action, to direct this Mighty Power
of Light unto Its Perfection for the earth.
Will you not feel It and each time you make this
call individually or otherwise, feel and see those Great
Powers sweeping from the West to the East? Notice,
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 273
how everything is reversed. Formerly, you would have
expected the sweeping from the East to the West.
Today the Great Legions are sweeping from the West
to the East; sweeping back the war clouds! holding
them within their own creation, until they can be
dissolved and annihilated.
So, We thank you, beloved ones, for this privilege
and joy today. May you feel Its ever enfolding, ex­
panding and blessing Activity to each one. We thank
you.
T H E G O D T A B O R ’ S D I S C O U R S E
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
JUNE 2 7 , 1937
H ILD REN of the Light, your hearts are reach­
ing out so earnestly for your Freedom. Your
loyalty to America is being proved so wonder­
fully in your Mighty Decrees, which are being issued
for that Freedom. May I take just a little of Saint
Germain’s Glory today? I belong to America too!
Therefore, dear ones, I join with you and say: that I
have been working in the past for the Freedom of
your beloved America. It shall come, beloved ones!
The Light is always more powerful than the
shadow. When you move in the sunlight, and see your
shadow following, you are not frightened at it, are
you? When you are in an airplane and you pass
through the clouds, often there is around the shadow
of your plane, a complete rainbow. Have you ever
seen that? It is wonderful! It is marvelous! Do you
know what it means? It means the Radiance of the
Light is always the governing power of the shadow.
The shadow sometimes follows for a time and then
disappears. So it is, beloved ones, with human cre­
ation.
Mankind in the lack of understanding have to
274
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 275
some degree welcomed it, not knowing how*to get rid
of it. The Truth is individuals to a large degree were
actually welcoming their own creation. Therefore,
giving it power through the appearance world. Now,
they have begun to understand that such things are
not necessary and such appearances must all be
changed. In the Understanding of the Presence,
Whose Power produces all change and brings in all
Perfection, the whole current of energy released by
mankind is being reversed.
Sometimes when you hear the Messengers use the
powerful statement: “ ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ turn
it upside down and bring an Ascended Master
Miracle of your Perfection out of it,” it means that
the condition is being reversed. Out of the lack of
understanding comes the True Understanding of the
Presence. This Understanding is the Powerhouse, by
which all humanity is transformed.
May I remind you again today, that in calling your
Presence into action to produce harmony and Per­
fection in your world, and America, dear ones, there
is no struggle. There is no battle! There is no war
feeling in it. It is the call to the Light. The release
goes forth and the Light, knowing no resistance nor
interference just moves in, dissolving everything un­
like Itself.
Keep reminding your outer intellect, which natu­
rally charges your feeling world, that in the change
276 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
which comes there need be no battle. In the great
calm serenity and issuing of these Decrees into the
mental and feeling world of mankind, the Light,
which is Self-luminous Intelligent Substance pro­
ceeds into action with the Infinite Power of the Uni­
verse; to produce this result which you desire so much
and which is so imperative for America.
The achievement of the past three months is so
very remarkable. We touch upon it occasionally to
give you the Courage and Strength to realize how
great it is. Words could not describe the achievement
of the past three months, but I trust you will realize
it in your feeling. As you enter this marvelous Shrine
Class, you will feel a Release of Power that you have
never touched in your Life. Even the beloved stu­
dents, who have been in touch with the Work from
the beginning, will find an amazing release of joy and
strength within them.
I say to you, beloved ones, and I plead with you,
do not give power to the gossip that goes about. Un­
happy, unfortunate individuals sometimes start those
things; but I ask you everywhere, do not give Power
to them. You cannot prevent human beings talking,
but you can prevent gossip anchoring within your
world. If you revolve it in thought or conversation,
you are sure to anchor it within your feeling world.
Say to all those stories that are brought to your atten­
tion: “ Is it not unfortunate that there are a few who
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 277
listen to such things? Please do not do it; for your
own sake.” Dear hearts, if you hear such things, let
them die right there. Do not spread gossip, which is so
foolish.
Harmony throughout the students is the most
needed thing. People who do not understand the Pres­
ence are not supposed to be able to control them­
selves like the students should be able to do; but if
you move among people spreading discordant
stories, do you not see mankind will say: ‘‘If that is
a sample of the ‘I AM ’ Students, then I do not care
to be like them.” Precious ones, let Me impress upon
you today as never before in your lives, that every one
of you who says: ‘‘I am an ‘I AM ’ Student” must be
an example of Perfection to all humanity. If those who
would like to become interested hear you discuss or
repeat gossip or some discordant thing, then you have
missed your opportunity to spread the Light.
If you allow yourself to give expression to those
things, while claiming to be an “ I AM ” Student, you
are allowing the sinister force to act and bring in its
destruction. Today, I want to make this so clear and
plain that no one ever again will yield to such a thing.
What is it that wants to repeat and discuss discordant
things? Certainly not the Presence! Then, it is ac­
cumulated discordant qualities, possibly amplified
by entities or something of that kind; which urge in­
dividuals to enter into such destructive feeling, that
278 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
they cannot accept the Light, which would be their
Freedom.
It matters not what the cause of it is, so long as you
allow discord, criticism and condemnation to register
in your feelings, even before you express it, then you
are charging your feeling world with those qualities.
Do not do that. You must handle it sometime, some­
where! If you are not strong you will not be able to
handle it. Call to the Presence with great determina­
tion that It may stand guard.
It is so easy. Every time someone starts to express
something discordant or critical to you say: “ Now
just wait a minute! In the Law of our ‘Mighty I AM
Presence’ we may not give expression to these dis­
cordant things. If there is an appearance of discord
there, then our part is to call the ‘Mighty I AM Pres­
ence’ into action to govern the situation, person, place
or condition. That is as far as we may be concerned
about it.” If everyone of you will just take this stand,
precious ones, your city will be a flood of Light.
There are always those, beloved ones, who because
there are selfish motives within them, and because
they cannot have their own way, often spread dis­
cordant things. Well that is not of any importance.
This concerns your business, your home, your Life,
your entire activity, beloved ones. It is not just a
matter concerning the work of the “ I AM ” ; it con­
cerns your whole Life. If you wish to succeed in your
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 279
business; if you wish to succeed in your musical work;
if you wish to succeed in your Group Work; if you
wish to succeed in any activity in which the outer
world requires your service; then the foundation of
that success is first harmony within your own feeling
world.
Now mark you, if you be the head of a business; if
you be the head of an activity; then you have also be­
come the heart center of it. If you know your Pres­
ence and will call It into action and every time some­
one brings something discordant or destructive to
you, say: “Very well! now we will consume that right
now! so please do not repeat it again.”
Do you know that it is only the revolving and re­
peating of a thing which makes it gain momentum in
your Life and finally bring disaster upon you? You
can see an appearance that is destructive; but you do
not have to accept it into your world. It will not
register in your world as a rule, unless you begin to
revolve it in thought or speech.
Dear ones, knowing these Laws, and to those who
might not be familiar with this Work, I say to you:
Beloved ones, study earnestly, without previous opin­
ion! There is nothing in this Magnificent, Work
which Saint Germain has brought forth, that can
disagree with anything constructive on the face of the
earth! If mankind will calmly and serenely study It
without criticism or condemnation, they will receive
28o ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
Its Truth; but if the Great Radiance, given forth in
the books and the Instruction, is clothed with human
concepts, then how can anyone know the Truth? I
say, there is not one thing in all This Understanding
of the “ Mighty I AM Presence” which can in any way
conflict with any other constructive activity. It is only
as the human concept clothes it with opinions and
charges it with discord, that mankind thinks it
contains anything antagonistic. It does not!
Your own God Presence, which every human being
has sought throughout the centuries, is represented
to you in that magnificent Chart. It gives your exact
position to your own God Presence, the only Being
and Place from which Perfection can come, or the
solution of human problems and conditions.
As you have been applying this in your individual
Life, for America and for your cities, irrefutable
evidence is being brought to you of the Power the
Divine Director is setting into operation in your
cities. He told the Messengers, He had been waiting
for this call; for in some instances They may not even
suggest a thing; but when you suddenly receive the
feeling and from the human octave make the call for a
certain activity to take place; then They can release
the Power, the Intelligence and the Energy by which
it is accomplished.
He caused the Angels of Blue Lightning and the
Sword of Blue Flame to sweep through the City of
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 281
New York every eight hours. The atmosphere of that
city was changed completely, as people by the hun­
dreds who know nothing about this Work whatso­
ever, are acknowledging today. Beloved ones, as you
hold yourselves calm and serene, you cannot help but
see the evidence before you everywhere.
Notice, how every time the beloved Messengers
have left your city, all kinds of stories run rampant;
but when the Messengers return all such foolishness
dissolves and fades out. Perhaps, you would like to
know just how that comes about. In the first place, it
is because the Messengers are humble and loyal to
the Light, the Presence and the Ascended Masters.
In the next place, they have become so vividly aware
of what has been said to you repeatedly; that when
you call the Presence into action, It knows no re­
sistance or interference. They have become so aware
of it, that when they call the Presence into action,
they know positively the thing called for is done.
Beloved ones, will you please do the same thing? Will
you feel the same thing? Your Presence is the Infinite
Power of the Universe. In Its Activity It knows no
interference. It simply goes into action to produce
the results you require in your individual lives or in
America. I tell you the accumulated discord has no
power to intrude into the Heart of this Planet, which
is America.
It has no power! Therefore, We join you in de-
282 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
daring that the appearance world no longer has any
power, to spread its discord to agitate mankind. As
you continue to call this Infinite Power into action,
It goes forth and governs all such conditions, includ­
ing individuals. We have seen destructive desires
taken out of agitators in an instant, and that has
stopped destructive action.
How do agitators originate? By two means. First,
by the power of revolving any human discussion;
second, by discordant entities who have failed on the
Pathway of Light and want to spread only destruc­
tion!
Beloved ones, incredible as it seems, I tell you that
when only the human qualities are acting within the
individual, as your Beloved Saint Germain has told
you repeatedly: “ The human ungoverned is more
vicious than the animal in the jungle.” It has proved
true throughout the world for centuries. This is why
all of the Ascended Masters plead for harmony in the
feelings and ask all to refuse acceptance to discord­
ant things through conversation or otherwise. It is
the only means, beloved ones, by which you can free
yourselves and your worlds and give the assistance to
America which is required.
Remember again, what your Beloved Saint Ger­
main has recently said to you: The Great Out­
pouring of Cosmic Light, for the first time in the
history of the earth, is making it possible to release
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 283
Power under the Ascended Masters’ Direction, to
dissolve destructive forces and conditions. This has
never before been permitted because of the indi­
vidual’s free will. If you will realize this, you will find
entering into your feeling world through your heart,
the Courage, Strength and Power to release through
your feeling, these Mighty Currents of Energy from
the Presence. Thus, they go forth and do their work,
not only in your individual world but for others, for
America and for Europe.
Since the Great Divine Director asked you to render
a certain service to Europe, I wish that you might
suddenly see with your own All-seeing-eye, what has
been done through it. Do you not see, that when the
Divine Director asks you to render a certain service,
it is because He sees through your effort, He will be
able to do certain things for the blessing of mankind
in general? Remember! He is a Mighty Cosmic Being,
who has seen fit to come into your Groups, into your
Classes and render this Service for the students in­
dividually; that they may release more Power from
the Presence into action for your cities and nation.
Then beloved ones, is it not the most Perfect Co­
operative Activity that has ever been known?
Mankind have not known how to do this, because
they had so completely forgotten their Presence. In
all the prayers, magnificent as they are, which have
been poured forth to God, how fragmentary are those
284 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
prayers, in comparison with these Mighty Decrees
which you are issuing. The difference between a
prayer as mankind has understood it and the issuing
of a Decree is; that most prayers are supplications,
and a Decree is the acknowledgment of God the Al­
mighty “ I AM Presence,” as the only Presence and
Intelligence acting. You see at once the difference in
the power released to produce the results and the dif­
ference in the individual’s feeling.
This is no condemnation nor criticism of prayer.
It has been a wonderful thing, even to have the previ­
ous knowledge of prayer; but you see it does not
always produce one hundred per cent results. In This
Mighty Ascended Master Law, you know you have en­
tered into the Complete Deeper Understanding and
All-powerful application of the Law. You have come
to know It not only as the Law of God, but the Law of
Life of which you are a definite part. Then, you know
you have entered into the Conquering Presence of
Life. It is what all are seeking to be, beloved ones,
the Conquering Presence of Life! Does that sound as
though Life had some imperfection in it? No! but
because of mankind’s power of qualification it means
that the power of qualification is used only for the
constructive activity of Life—Wholly! No longer by
your permission, can your feeling act to requalify
this Mighty Energy discordantly.
Remember, beloved ones, who have the under-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 285
standing of your Presence! if you insist on allowing
your feelings to become discordant and through that,
re-qualify this Mighty Energy as it goes forth from
you, then you become still more responsible for the
discord of the world. Remember! It is pouring forth
every minute through the Power of Radiation and
you cannot stop It!
I am just going to touch upon this lightly, be­
cause in the call of the students, We have been com­
pelled to witness certain activities. When I see such
blessed ones, in a moment when they are off-guard
allowing themselves to feel discordant or give ex­
pression to the repeating of discordant gossip, which
is always untrue; can you imagine the feeling within
Our Hearts? Then, We watch for an opportunity to
try through the feeling world to prompt them not to
do it again. Beloved ones, We are compelled by the
Law of your Life to keep reminding you of these
things, until you no longer allow them to act in your
world.
There is no use giving forth Deeper Teaching,
until individuals utilize what they have and you have
used only a fragmentary part of what is before you.
Remember! you are responsible only to your own
Life, unless you are expressing discord; then you be­
come responsible to all mankind. You are adding to
the burden of mankind by whatever discord you ex­
press. In the Understanding of your “ Mighty I AM
286 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
Presence,” you cannot do this without penalty; be­
cause you have called forth a tremendous charge of
energy from your Presence into your feeling world.
Then, if you continue to allow discord to clothe that
energy and send it forth, you become more and more
responsible to the Great Law of Life and to your fel­
low man. The individual, who does not understand
the Presence, cannot release the great volume of
energy that you can. It is not possible.
Therefore, beloved ones, stand guard! Call the
Presence to stand guard over your world! If vicious
things are acting in your feeling world, stop them
instantly—I plead with you! Do not have an opinion
about another. If there is an appearance which seems
to need correction, call to their Presence and then
forget the incident.
It is the only way you can be free. We love you so
greatly, and We see the enormous progress which is
being made by the great number of students already.
We want to give you the encouragement and the
strength to stand more firmly on guard, that you may
more quickly enter into your Glorious Freedom per­
manently.
I assure you, beloved ones, the Victory is yours
for the “ Mighty I AM Presence” which beats your
heart is your certain Victory! If you slip occasionally,
do not be discouraged; but with a firmer determina­
tion than ever say: “ ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ do not
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 287
let me do it again.” Oh if you only knew, beloved
ones, how one earnest call like that, would release
Power into your world which would give you Infinite
Strength and Courage to stop even the acceptance of
suggestions!
I want to call your attention to two things today;
so the greatest possible blessing may come to you
during the Shrine Class. A few, dear ones, have
thought the only thing necessary was to make a few
calls to the “ Mighty I AM Presence” and they would
have their Ascension; or that if they signed the ap­
plication to become a member of the 100% Groups,
it was the only thing necessary for their Ascension.
Dear hearts, everything in the Understanding of the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” is an individual activity.
The 100% Group will give you the most amazing
assistance to your Ascension, your Victory; but it
cannot be done unless you purify yourself. Just be­
cause you come into the Understanding of the “ I
AM,” do not think that you do not need to make
application; that you do not have to purify and cor­
rect yourself! This must be obvious to one who thinks
at all.
Therefore, enter in, Oh beloved ones—into a de­
termined powerful application of your Presence. Call
It forth into action for every detail! Oh do not worry
nor think that your Presence is too Great to handle
little details. It is the little things, dear ones, just a
288 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
little thing here and a little thing there which finally
gets to whirling in your feeling and makes a disturb­
ing activity. It is the listening to—“ I wonder why such
a thing got started; I wonder why this got started
over here.” Such a subtle suggestion is just an op­
portunity to get your attention on some discordant
thing which will finally pull you into it. Do not do it!
The Messengers found, dear ones, the only means
of keeping themselves free from the gossip of human
beings was to instantly say: “You have no power! You
cannot enter my world” ! and it does not do it!
Everyone must do the same. You are the only one
responsible for your world. Do not feel any concern
about the other person’s world, except to bless it and
praise it. Oh praise and pour out blessing! What a
wonderful thing!
Do you know precious ones how important it is to
bless everyone and give all courage? Take yourselves
here today. How many are there in this room who do
not appreciate with all their hearts a kindly word?
Someone lays his hand on your shoulder and says: ‘‘I
am grateful you are winning your Victory?” Is there
anyone here who would not appreciate such encour­
agement to its fullest extent? That is what mankind
needs. It does not mean, dear hearts at every little
appearance out here—“ that person has gone wrong” !
Now do not misunderstand what I am going to
say to you. The Messengers have always pled with
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 289
you to turn wholly to your “ Mighty I AM Presence”
for everything. We have watched a certain activity
is why I am doing this. If you have some serious
problem to handle, be careful how you let others
know your need. If the knowledge of your need
touches someone who is discordant, you have just
that much more to handle. This is the point! Beloved
ones, is there anything in the Universe more powerful
than your Presence? Is there? Oh surely not. Do you
think someone in the physical, and I know you do
often think it, has more ability to call your Presence
into action than you have? Well suppose that were
the case temporarily. Do you not see that sooner or
later, you will come to the place where you will meet
the condition; when you must stand wholly with your
Presence, not looking to a single thing outside? The
moment you really do that, your troubles will cease,
precious ones. I assure you that the moment you can
turn wholly to your Presence and say: “ ‘Mighty I AM
Presence,’ I am just looking to you” ! you cannot fail
to have results.
Do you realize that century, after century, after
century, mankind has been taught to lean on some­
thing other than their own Life, which is the “ Mighty
I AM Presence”? While individuals were still pray­
ing to God, they were looking around outside to see
what person could assist, if that assistance were
needed.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
290
Precious ones, as you keep calling your Presence
into action, it will choose. Your Higher Mental Body
which is the discriminating selective Intelligence will
choose who shall give assistance, if it be through
human channels. Then no mistakes can be made.
You see how easy, how simplified it all is, when
once you get this clearly? I am extremely grateful
that the mental atmosphere is so clear today, for you
are comprehending these things as never before. This
today is not due to My Presence. It is just here, and I
rejoice with you. Each time We come together, you
move up, and up, and up, on that Mighty Wondrous
Spiral of Light. You are all moving rapidly. Oh, do
not be discouraged, any one of you precious ones.
Your Victory I tell you is so much greater today than
you yet realize. Will you accept My Word for it?
Believe Me! when I tell you the Truth, when I say
I know it!
You are a Focus on earth of the Light from your
“ Mighty I AM Presence.” As you hold yourselves,
your feelings harmonious and call your Presence into
action, It does pour out a Mighty Radiance, like the
heat from a Great Furnace all the time. Then you
must feel Its Radiance, for you are the most wonder­
ful Focus of Light in the world. Will you feel your
individual responsibility to keep yourselves so har­
monious, that this Light can keep pouring out, pour­
ing out, and every one who touches It will feel the
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 291
uplift? This is really your responsibility in your Un­
derstanding of the Presence. You have become a
Mighty Radiating Center of Light! Therefore, if you
allow discord to clothe the Light from your Presence,
are you not responsible for the discord you spread to
another?
I am trying to make this so definite and clear,
that in the intellect you will no longer have the
slightest excuse nor have any desire to feel or express
discord of any kind; because that is imperfection in
your Life.
We hope, ere long, to show to the students through
moving pictures what the Power of Radiation means;
that all may see the difference between discordant
radiation actually operating before them, and the
wholly Perfect Radiation. Once you see that, if there
is any fragment left in your being of any desire not
to control yourself, it will vanish then. This is the
cause of all human limitations.
Now that you understand your Presence and are
constantly calling forth greater intensity of Its energy,
remember! your responsibility is greater! and there
is no excuse any longer for listening to or expressing
discord of any kind! Will you allow Me, today, to
give you the Complete Assistance and Victory that
you may be forever free from any such thing?
As you leave this room today, no longer has any
destructive quality, discord or irritating quality any
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
292
power to act in your world! I call on the “ Mighty I
AM Presence” of each one of you, to cut you free this
instant from every vestige of such desires! dissolve
and consume them out of your feeling world forever!
Then: “ ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ hold Your Invin­
cible Tube of Light about each one of these precious
ones, so invincible, that never again can a discordant
thing act within that Tube of Light, or within the
mind and feeling world of these beloved ones.”
I can render you this Service, if you will accept it.
We are not limited in any manner whatever. Will
you while I am speaking, issue the silent decree: “ that
all the Students of the ‘I AM ’ receive this same As­
sistance today?” You are one in your mental and feel­
ing world, beloved ones. It is the octave in which all
the mental activity, all the feeling activity of the indi­
vidual is one. The “ Mighty I AM Presence” of each
one of you is All-wise, All-powerful Intelligence.
Therefore, that Intelligence is One in Quality—in­
dividualized. There is one Power, one Substance of
which you are all composed. Knowing this, you must
feel the need of your own individual harmony; in
order to more quickly allow the Great Host of Light
to release Their Light with sufficient intensity into
the earth; so all Perfection comes forth into action
and is sustained.
I thank you, beloved ones.
T H E G O D H I M A L A Y A ’ S D I S C O U R S E
PASADENA, CALIFORNIA
JUNE 2 7 , 1937
B
ELOVED Children of the Light, I greet you in
the Love and Power of your own “ Mighty I
AM Presence.’’ I shall endeavor to draw you
a picture, tonight, which will possibly help you to
understand how great your privilege is in America.
In My country of India, Oh what We would give to
have what you already have in America—this Under­
standing of your “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
Do you quite realize, beloved ones, that you are
the most privileged people on the face of the earth?
Why are you the privileged ones? Will you try to
remember these Words forever? You have heard this
no doubt before, but if you will let Me, I want to
anchor it tonight as a Constant Memory within you,
because of association in that long forgotten civiliza­
tion. You, humanly speaking, have forgotten this
training. Now you are recalling it, or it is being re­
called for you. You can and are having the privilege of
your Victory.
Most of the individuals, who have already been
drawn under Saint Germain’s Radiance, are those
from this former civilization to which I have just
293
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
294
referred. Many of you failed in that civilization! but
you are not going to fail in this one. Because of the
Great Cosmic Light, It is enabling enough to be done
for you in the way of Assistance, so you will not fail
this time.
Remember what the Messenger has said to you:
“ Once individuals have seen the Chart and touched
This Understanding of the “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
they cannot turn away from It long. It is not possible!
Oh, not because of the Messengers, but because It is a
Mighty Truth. It is the eye picture of their Reality
and no one can forget it. Oh, that all might really
understand this and silence forever all human activity
within them.
Do you see, precious ones, all who have been so
vicious toward the Messengers and the Work, really
have no power? Dear ones, they are but destroying
themselves and it is such a pity. They cannot harm
the Messengers nor the Work. You all see that. So do
not allow anything to trip you up, beloved ones, any­
where along the Pathway of Light. Do not listen to
foolish gossip! Those, who are trying to oppose the
Messengers, start all such things just to try to get the
attention of the earnest student; and I am rejoiced
that most of you are untouched by it, so pour forth
strength to others.
The Messengers do not condemn those unfortunate
individuals. It is such a great pity; because their
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 295
energy turned to the Light would set all entirely free,
if they but realized it. After the coming Shrine Class,
it is Our Great hope with Our Great Love pouring
out to you, that every one who enters those walls will
go forth so firmly anchored in his “ Mighty I AM
Presence” and in the acceptance of the Ascended
Masters, that no longer will anyone listen to false
gossip of any kind, or any kind of gossip for that
matter.
It is for your own protection, beloved ones; because
that is the thing which disturbs your feeling and opens
you to the undesirable qualities and activities; either
of your own creation or of someone outside. Remem­
ber, the mental and feeling world of mankind is one!
If you do not hold about you the Wall of Light
invincible, you may accept suggestions which are not
yours and act them out. Let us be so careful of this and
be so sure of ourselves, that we only accept the Per­
fection of the Presence. Anything less than the Per­
fection of the Presence we do not want. Therefore, be
firm and absolutely unyielding, in refusing accept­
ance to anything less than the Perfection of the
Presence into your worlds—into your feeling worlds.
We will assist you, if you will take your firm stand
and do that. Beloved ones, you are compelled to move
among the unawakened of mankind everywhere, you
cannot escape them; but that does not mean you have
to yield to the unfortunate conditions which are
296 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
there. You, as Students of the Light and having the
Strength and Power of your Presence, may move
among mankind, untouched by its discord. You can
only do that, as you refuse to listen to and accept
conversation which is less than Perfection.
These are very simple things, but Oh, they are
powerful in your Life. This is why We keep return­
ing you again and again to these fundamentals. We
shall keep calling your attention to them, so do not
get tired of it; because We are going to continue, until
this Power of refusal becomes so anchored within you,
that you are alert every instant; and refuse acceptance
of every discordant thing into your feeling world.
It is not a matter of persons, places or conditions,
dear ones, not in any sense. It is just a condition which
will take your attention off your Presence and place it
upon the discord. Do not blame persons, places nor
conditions for it. Just say to your human self: “ Now
hold on! you are not going to do this any more. ‘I
A M ’ responsible here for what is in my world! If I
accept and listen to this thing, it will have to act out in
my world. I AM firm and positive! I do not let any
more of this come into my world.” If you will do that
with determined firmness, you will have no difficulty.
Do you wonder why We keep referring to this?
Because you cannot go farther, beloved ones, until
you conquer this thing! It is not a matter of persons,
places or conditions; but harmony must be main-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 297
tained in your feeling world, to allow the Pure Es­
sence from the Presence to pour forth into your world
and perform the Service It wishes to do for you.
Without harmony maintained, you cannot do it! you
cannot have it! Therefore, do not feel impatient.
Our critics will perhaps say: “ The Ascended
Masters keep harping on much the same thing.” Well
that is true. Until mankind will conquer these things
and make it possible to release greater and deeper
things, it would be useless. If greater things were
released to you, you would not understand them.
Therefore, dear ones, many of you are gaining a
most marvelous Victory and you can only complete It,
as you refuse absolutely to listen to discordant things.
You cannot imagine how readily you accept things
into your feeling world without knowing it. All you
have to do to know the Truth of My Words, is to
watch yourselves, your feeling for a few days. See
how sometimes in passing an individual, sometimes in
just listening for a few moments to some discordant
thing, you turn and go on your way; but notice how
that began to revolve within your feeling world.
Precious ones, these simple things are what must be
conquered within every individual.
Now let us make a comparison, in order to enable
you to understand more comprehensively. Take our
beloved India: compare the great mass of our civiliza­
tion there to your America. Notice, beloved ones, We
298 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
know this; but even in India, We may not do what
you can do in America; because you are the Heart of
the Light of the earth and must remain so. We are
not able to do for our people anything like what is
being done here for you, because the long built-up
concept has taught many of the people of India to go
into Samadhi—into meditation and to release them­
selves from the body; to live and move and have their
being in the Higher Octaves. That is not Victory! One
day our people must come to know it! To bring the
Power of the Presence into the human form and into
the activity of the human individual is the only
Victory on earth.
We do have in India many wonderful Beings, As­
cended and unascended; but the great mass of our
people do not know what is needed to win Life’s
Victory. You sometimes think you have factions
among your student body. In India, We have hun­
dreds of factions with various ideas and understanding
of the God-head and what It means. You, outside of
the agitators who cause your strikes and disturbance
of that kind, have little to contend with; but in India
We have thousands and thousands of fanatics.
I am drawing this picture tonight, that you may all
realize how great is your privilege here. In This
Knowledge of your Presence, you CAN call It into ac­
tion with such power that every agitator, every con­
dition less than Perfection shall vanish from your
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 299
America and the earth. Your Presence is not limited!
Therefore, you can call this Mighty IN FIN IT E
POWER of the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” which is
the Great Cosmic Light and Substance, into the
mental and feeling world of mankind; until the ful­
ness of Its Power acts there with Infinite Dominion.
You do not have to fear conditions that have the
appearance of discord in your world today. An ap­
pearance does not have power to act, unless the Life
Stream through humanity is fed into it by the individ­
ual’s attention. How do these agitators get the atten­
tion and the Energy of the people to cause these
things? By getting their attention through some
sinister imaginary thing! That is how the mass of man­
kind is being deceived by these agitators. They do not
understand that they are being deceived in letting
themselves be stirred up; for such activity is never the
solution of anything.
In India, our fanatics are so much worse than your
agitators that there is no comparison. Remember, be­
loved Children of the Light! these agitators, who
through appearances which create disturbance in
your industrial world and prevent the people from
having their livelihood, have no Power! unless you
give them your Life Energy through your attention
and accept them as having power. As the Messengers
have urged you, say to all discordant appearances:
“You have no power” ! and it will not have.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
300
Remember beloved ones, you are atoms in the
body of humanity. Therefore, you have the authority
and the power to call forth this Infinite Power; to dis­
solve and consume forever from the earth these con­
ditions; silence all individuals who are claws of the
sinister force; and to take from them all power to
produce those results among mankind. There can
never be a solution of anything, unless you call the
Presence into action to bring forth Divine Justice to
capital, to labor, and to all industries. Then, you will
find the only solution.
As Donald said to you tonight: “ Union is the
Power upon which your country is built.” Not the
unions that breed discord! but the union of
harmony. Remember the words of that Great Being
in Washington’s Vision: “ So long as the stars remain
and the heavens send down dew, so long shall the
Union remain.” So shall it be! “ The union”
means the Harmony of mankind which allows the
God Presence to flow forth, causing Divine Justice
to act everywhere throughout mankind.
The Messengers have experienced this hundreds
of times, when individuals have called to them for
assistance where Divine Justice was so greatly needed.
They have issued the Mighty Decree, that the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” take command of the situa­
tion, produce Its Divine Justice and hold Its Do­
minion and it has been done.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 301
Beloved ones, in your individual problems of Life,
take your stand with the Presence and if it be Divine
Justice that is required, call Divine Justice into ac­
tion; than stand unyielding until it is manifested,
until it is completed! If it is supply you need say:
‘“ Mighty I AM Presence’ Thou art my Treasure-
house! release the supply and money I require here
through the power of Divine Love! I refuse to yield
longer to anything else.” You can have it, dear hearts.
There is nothing in the world that can prevent your
Presence releasing to you whatever you call for, if
your feeling continues to accept it after you have
issued your decree. It is not possible for it to fail. It
is the Law of Life, your Life which is acting with
Infinite Power. I say to you, no longer yield to these
appearances that seem terrifying to you; for they
have no power except your Life, which through your
attention, is fed into them.
Beloved ones, tonight join Me in the feeling of your
Victory right now, eternally sustained! You shall
have It! There is no power in your world except
yourself! Remember, that you are the only author­
ity for your world. You are the decreer who releases
from your “ Mighty I AM Presence” into your
world, whatever is required and there is no
other means of doing it. You may have temporary re­
sults by other means, but the permanent activity is
the calling of your Presence into action; until the
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
302
fulness of Its Out-pouring becomes so great that
nothing unlike Itself can flow in. That is the Power
of momentum gained. Do not yield to anything else.
We have seen some among the students, Oh, who
are so earnest, so lovable. Yet, because of the accumu­
lation in their feeling world, they have not been able
to release the power and energy they require to bring
the fulfillment of their calls. Then, they wonder: why
do I not have the results for which I so earnestly call?
Remember dear ones, I must repeat it to you again
tonight. If there are not results, it is because some­
thing unknown to you, is acting in your feeling world.
With determination, call your Presence into action
to take out of your feeling world whatever is seem­
ingly obstructing the way. Then, you will have dis­
posed of it and your call will be answered more
quickly.
It is a permanent Victory, beloved ones. Do not
yield to looking to something outside or to others!
You can have temporary help; but your Victory comes
alone in the acknowledgment and calling of your own
Presence into action; until you feel so sure, so firm
in your feeling world, that you never think of asking
someone’s assistance. You never look outside some­
where, but just stand with your Presence. Say often:
“ ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ you are the Power of the
Universe, come forth here! I call on the Law of For­
giveness for every mistake I have ever made! I mean
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 303
business now! I am determined that I shall have Your
Limitless Energy and Intelligence to take command
of me and my world; to take such firm command of
me that my human does not make another mistake.”
Be firm in it and you will have the results.
Your human is the only one who can make a mis­
take. Your Presence never does! Think! all mankind
has made a constant stream of mistakes. Now We are
correcting that whole stream and you are correcting
it. So, if you find in your earnest effort a mistake has
been made, what of it? Simply say: “ ‘Mighty I AM
Presence,’ do not let me do it again.” Such is the
Freedom, the Power which is being released in your
world. Do you not see that if you crumple up because
you have made a mistake, you undo all the work you
have already done, and you have to start all over? Do
not do that, but with the Infinite Joy of the Presence
say: ‘‘Oh no, you appearance world, no more do you
have power! It makes no difference what stands before
me that is less than Your Perfection, I declare: ‘It has
no power,’ ” and it does not have. If necessary, in
order to give you time to get your breath and gather
your forces, say: “ Stop! you shall not enter my world!
I will have no more of this.” Then, as you have sent
forth this Great Power which stops everything, say:
“ ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ rush forward here, take
command of me and my world! hold your Dominion
and produce what is required for my Freedom, happi-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
B°4
ness, my supply, my comfort, or whatever it may be.”
Oh these are great Laws, Mighty Laws, dear ones!
that even a little child can use, and the children do
use them wonderfully.
It is only because, dear ones, you momentarily give
way again to the Power of appearances that your
Freedom seems to be delayed; when they have no
power except what you give them. Do not do that, I
plead with you. Your Victory is so sure, so quick, as
soon as you take your stand against the appearance
world and know and feel that it has no power.
Do you not see that you have been the creators of
these limitations which beset your world and the
conditions that are there? When you say to a thing:
“ You have no power” ! you, being the creator of it,
take the power out of it to act in your world. Do you
not see that beloved ones? It is so magnificent! Re­
member, let Me repeat again: You are the creator of
every limitating thing in your world. Therefore,
when you say to an appearance: “ You have no
power” ! do you not see right then and there, you take
out of such an appearance any power to further act
in your world, to limit or to obstruct your way?
Oh how We rejoice in the clearness of this Under­
standing which is coming into your world. You are
grasping more firmly each time the true Victory, the
true feeling of your power, through your Presence, to
govern your world.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 3°5
Oh beloved ones, would I not like to have a Group
such as you are here for one year in India! What do
you think I would do? I would transform more than
half of India, if I had a Group such as you have here
tonight. With this good brother, I would transform
half of India in one year. Do I sound like I was be­
littling My own country? Not at all, but I am en­
deavoring to convey to you the privilege which is
yours; the authority which is yours; the Power which
is yours in the acceptance of your Presence, for the
Freedom of yourself and your America.
In many places in India, tonight, they are listening
in to you. Their Mighty Rays are directed here and
every word that I am saying is heard in India. You
do not realize, beloved ones, that there are atmos­
pheric currents through India from one point to an­
other; by which We converse the same as you do by
speech, only with greatly added speed. That is why a
thing happening in one point of India is known in
the farthest point of India in a few minutes. Those are
things you are not aware of here as yet. Many of just
such transcendent activities are known to the great
mass of the people; but they have not learned the
need of bringing down this Perfection through the
physical activity; making it visible; and sending it
out into the world, to produce Perfection there.
One day these books, “ Unveiled Mysteries,” “ The
Magic Presence,” the “ I AM Discourses” and what-
go6 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
ever follows, will spread over India; because I shall
see that it is done, for they convey the Truth to man­
kind; and the unfortunate individuals who criticize
those books are unfortunate indeed.
I want you to know, that America has come again
with Great Light. How We rejoice and how great a
privilege is Ours in assisting in any way We can; for
this Great Incoming Perfection will one day spread
over the entire earth. Think of it! beloved ones, to­
day before you in those blessed books is the Law of
Life! the application! the explanation of these Great
Laws! and how to set them into action. It is all true.
Anyone can prove it who will! Those, who will not
prove it are the losers; but you who are so in earnest,
read! read! read! those precious books! Dear hearts,
apply! apply! apply! this amazing energy of your
Presence. Call it into action, until there is not a
vestige of any limitation left in you and your world,
and it must act! It cannot fail you!
Remember this one point again tonight. I must
remind you. You have heard it so often, but I am sure
you forget it. Remember, your Higher Mental Body,
provided by the Presence, knows every requirement
and does release whatever you need. The simple al­
mighty thing which any of you can govern and handle,
if you will, is to keep your feeling world harmonious.
Keep,calling the Presence into action to take out
everything that is unknowingly acting in your world,
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 307
which might obstruct the outflow of this pure energy
from the Presence to produce the results you require.
The greatest service ever rendered on earth in any
age is being rendered by the Divine Director; in
calling the Angels of Blue Lightning and Sword of
Blue Flame to sweep through your cities; take out
all discarnate entities; and continue that service
until it is done. All, that the Law of your being per­
mits at this time, is being done for you; and it is
changing all of your own creations which have ac­
cumulated. All possible is being dissolved and con­
sumed for you, so you may find less pressure upon
yourselves in your achievement.
I assure you, if you will remind yourselves of these
things daily, you will find it so much easier to feel
the fulness of your Power and Victory quickly. Your
Presence does not have to wait for anything. You
really do not have to wait for anything, if you but
knew it.
May I remind you of the statement made by the old
time Methodists? You know in their revival meet­
ings, when they got considerably excited they said:
“ Now is the accepted time” ; that is exactly the
case with your “ I AM Presence” and you. Now is the
accepted timeI
Beloved ones, I rejoice with you with all My Heart
in this great, great privilege which is yours. In looking
over your worlds tonight, you can so quickly be
308 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
wholly free, if you will. Your Victory is now certain!
When I see these wonderful young people, I think
what a wonderful thing it is for them to be grasping
This Understanding of the “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
It will make them Pillars of Light moving among
mankind. Do you know, beloved ones, there are
thousands, and thousands, and thousands of young
people, like these blessed young men, who would give
anything in the world to have one hour of the ex­
planation of the Chart; and to have the encourage­
ment and strength from the Ascended Masters which
This Work gives; and to realize that all the things
they have been taught in the schools, colleges and
Universities are wrong, so far as their morality is
concerned. Oh that those blessed ones might have
help. Surely, the Great Cosmic Law will open the
way; and make it possible for these wonderful young
people to be taught This Understanding of the Law.
I call to the Infinite Power of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence” to take command of the young people of
America; expand the Light within their hearts and
bring them in touch with This Understanding of the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” ; take these books to them,
or provide some means by which their attention can
be called to this Great Presence. Then, Oh Mighty
Ones, through the Great Power of Radiation enfold
those wonderful young people in Thy Invincible
Protection and give them This Truth!
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 309
You, who have had experiences of the world I feel
are strong enough to win your own Victory; but the
young people fifteen, sixteen, eighteen and twenty
years old, they are the ones who need to be guided
right. Many of them are in confusion because of
wrong teaching. They know the Truth in their
hearts, but they see manifested all about them the
same mistaken activity. They wonder—can it be true?
Yet all the time in their hearts they know it is not.
Will you beloved ones—you have done it to some
extent, but will you especially call for the protection
of the young people of America? Call to the “ Mighty
I AM Presence” with Infinite Power, that they may
be brought in touch with This Understanding of the
“Mighty I AM ” in some manner.
As the radio broadcast expands in its work, Oh,
what an opportunity it is to turn the attention of
great numbers of individuals to the “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” Oh, beloved ones, do you not see this?
In your wondrous call for a national hookup on your
radio, you can render such a great service to bring
people into This Understanding? Oh, as never before,
call for it, that it may quickly come into manifesta-
tion.
Dear hearts, when I think of some blessed ones
among the “ I AM ” Students who want to render
such a great service; do you not see that money can­
not be spent in any better manner; than to produce
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
31Q
such powerful results in getting This Understanding
of the “ I A M ” over the radio and through it, touch
so many thousands of people quickly? Beloved ones,
there is no thing so needed today as that. The Mes­
sengers cannot reach many people in the class work.
Even if they filled the Hollywood Bowl, still they
would only be reaching a small number of humanity;
but through the Radio, the results that have already
been produced from it are phenomenal.
Do you wonder that I am familiar with the radio?
We have had it for a hundred years in India. Now
beloved ones, to use one of the Messenger’s expres­
sions, “ We are getting down to brass tacks.” We are
coming to the point where with your combined as­
sistance, the way will open wherein these broadcasts
will go forth; reaching hundreds of thousands of
people and calling their attention to the “ Mighty I
AM Presence.”
Would you like to hear the results from the broad­
casts in New York? Out of the number of people who
heard those broadcasts, only three people—and We
watched it—rejected it. Only three people who heard
those broadcasts rejected the explanation. It is the
most stupendous thing that We have ever witnessed.
This is why I am speaking to you from My Heart
tonight. To those who have means and wish to render
service in the expansion of This Light, I wish to
say: that there is no thing in the world which would
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 311
render such transcendent blessing, as money used in
the broadcasting of the “ I A M ” to the world. It is a
magnificent opportunity.
The very remarkable thing today is that in pre­
senting that part of the Law, calling the attention to
the Presence and the Ascended Masters, a great oppor­
tunity is given. The Ascended Masters, the Legion of
Light and the Great Cosmic Beings amplify and hold
the attention of those listening; because in the quiet
and freedom of listening undisturbed, they grasp and
more clearly comprehend It. It is very marvelous.
We Ourselves could hardly conceive of the results,
but that is why I use this opportunity to inform you
of the mass results produced by it. Through that,
tremendous things will be done.
Will you just for a few moments feel in this great
stillness as if you were caught and held in the
Ascended Masters Octave? Feel Their Freedom! feel
everything that is limiting drop away from you! never
to be remembered! never to be recalled! Just feel
yourselves held in Their Great Freedom. Feel your­
self, your Higher Mental Body in action, pouring
forth Its Radiance to mankind. Then in this Great
Stillness, speak silently to your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” and say: “ Now ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ hold
me there. Even though this body goes about its daily
activities, still hold me in your Octave of Light, con­
scious of my Dominion from the Ascended Masters’
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
3 i 2
Octave; conscious that I am the conquering Presence
of my world in human activity; conscious that no
longer is there any obstruction to the Out-pouring
of the Light of my Presence; which floods my world,
harmonizing and producing Perfection there and
holding Its Dominion.” FEEL IT ! FEEL IT ! FEEL
IT ! sustained.
I decree for you, that never again in Eternity shall
you ever yield Dominion to anything in the appear­
ance world! Never again shall any appearance terrify
or disturb you! Will you not accept that All-
powerfully active in you and your world? In every­
thing that is required, straighten up your spine and
say: “ Mighty I AM Presence! You are the governing
Intelligence of me and my world; therefore, whatever
this appearance is, it has no power. Take command
and produce your Perfection here! I, in the human
form, shall be humble and obedient before Thy
Great Light and Law! No longer shall I allow my in­
tellect to feel dominion; no longer shall it deprive me
of Your Power, flowing through to govern my world
and hold Its Dominion.”
Oh, beloved ones, it is so Real; it is so powerful;
it is so true. No longer need a single one of you feel
limitation of any kind again. We feel so joyfully priv­
ileged to be of assistance in every way possible.
Remember, with the Ascended Being: The Universe
is My country. To do good is My religion. To do
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 3 * 3
good is My Joy. To set mankind free is the Highest
Service known.
Beloved ones, when you see a need, instead of
feeling critical, always say to your Presence: “ Oh
‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ thank you! Here is another
opportunity for me to call You into action to produce
Perfection.” Oh precious ones, will you do that
always? As you pass through the appearance world in
your daily activities, wherever there is a requirement,
hold yourselves in absolute silence from voicing any
discordant thing. Then say to your Presence: “ Take
command of this person, place or condition. Produce
your Perfection and hold your Dominion there.”
Then be at peace within your mind and feeling world.
The results will be so great, so tremendous for you.
Great Infinite Law of the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” that We all adore; that all are coming to know
is the Eternal Solution of all things in human ex­
perience! You are here and now the Commander of
the world of mankind. We call the Law of Life, to see
that all human beings in America and the world
give joyous and willing obedience to this Great Law
of Life—the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” that Its
Dominion reign forever. First, in a few hundred thou­
sand and then to the world.”
Oh, tonight, how I long to see This Understanding
of the “ Mighty I AM Presence” sweep our India,
sweep all Europe. It would so quickly dissolve the
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
B14
accumulation which is now threatening them with
entire destruction. The pity is that Europe cannot see
and understand, that its people are living over a
seething vortex of destructive action. Above them is
the human creation, which if allowed to continue will
release the destructive forces beneath them. Oh, that
they might see!
Beloved ones, tonight, I rejoice with you. Will you
permit Me to say that I am glad to be with you; for if
in any way, in My Humble Way, I have rendered you
a Service, then I shall be ever grateful. Having at­
tained the Freedom which We have, do you wonder
that We plead so earnestly with you for your Free­
dom? It is yours! Do not allow anything to interrupt
the great speed with which you are going forward into
your Freedom. Oh, the privilege that all have who
attend this coming Shrine Class; what a privilege!
In the fulness of the Love of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” I rejoice with you and stand with you,
unto your Victory over limitation, and then your
Ascension. May that come quickly. It can! according
to your refusal to accept appearances; according to
the earnestness and intensity with which you call your
Presence into action with Its Mighty Intelligent
Energy. This can all come so quickly or require the
human sense of time. Let Us help you to set aside all
time and space and enter quickly into the Glory of
your “ Mighty I AM .”
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T Mb
May I place My Mantle of Light and Love about
the shoulders of each one of you? May It be sustained
there as long as you require It, for your strength, joy
and the release of all that is required for your happi­
ness and comfort; to assist you to your certain Vic­
tory. I thank you.
K U T H U M I ’ S D I S C O U R S E
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
DECEMBER ig, 1 9 3 7
B
ELOVED Children of America, how wondrous
. has been the change since Our first humble
* Efforts to give Assistance to the people of
Europe. Our Assistance has also spread to America.
In all loving kindness, I wish to mention just two
things. In the endeavor of Morya and Myself, to bring
to the world the Truth that there was no death; man­
kind has been unwilling to give the obedience re­
quired, and because of their disobedience turned the
wonderful Understanding We brought forth into the
present activity of spiritualism.
In Our endeavor to assist and bring forth through
Theosophy, the Glory and right Understanding of
Life up to the time when We could have brought
forth this Truth; still again humanity would not
give sufficient obedience. Why will not mankind,
precious mankind, give obedience to the Law of
Life; love each other, so that it makes it possible for
the Great Truth to come forth untouched, unadulter­
ated by human opinions?
Yet, We are so grateful to every blessed earnest
Theosophist and every other blessed one in America,
316
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 317
for all the service each one has rendered. Beloved ones,
for more than six hundred years, the Great Ascended
Masters have tried to open the way for this greater
Understanding to come to mankind; but no sooner
did this Mighty Truth begin to expand Its Light,
than individuals with human opinions seized upon It;
and tried to make It obey them; instead of obeying
It.
We were not then Ascended; but today, that great
magnificent Brother of Light, Our Beloved Saint
Germain, has had the Courage and Strength to bring
forth this “ Mighty I AM ’’ Instruction to free all
mankind. Some day, when you know a little more of
what He went through, to win His Victory and Ascen­
sion; you will understand why He has had the mag­
nificent Power, Strength and Wisdom, to do what no
other one has ever been able to do. I have not asked
His permission to tell you this which I shall say to
you, so I shall take advantage, lest He cut it off. I trust
He will not be listening, but beloved ones, I say to
you as One who knows: never in all eternity can man­
kind pour forth enough gratitude to Saint Germain,
for this Victory of the Light.
I have long waited this opportunity, and as He is
busy elsewhere this afternoon, He will discover it later
of course; but I must say That of which My Heart is
so full. Our Gratitude to Him for that Victory is
boundless and eternal. Blessed ones, only as the years
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
3l8
pass, will you come more and more fully to under­
stand what this means to mankind.
We feel so greatly encouraged. The Goddess of
Liberty has set into action a certain Power through
the currents of the atmosphere. Through It, We feel
so hopeful of quickly drawing enough of the atten­
tion of mankind to the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” to
quickly accomplish all that is required. Will you not
rejoice with Us? With all the great calm earnestness
of your being, call the “ Mighty I AM Presence” to
project Its Currents into the atmosphere; and into the
mental and feeling world of mankind, to awaken
humanity to this Great Truth. Then, the moment
they touch It, they will be ready to know It is their
own Life.
Through the Transcriptions, the Radio Broadcast­
ing is doing a work so magnificent. I wish to take this
opportunity of thanking the students everywhere. I
thank every beloved one for the magnificent manner
in which they have made possible so much of the
radio work. How blessed they are to be willing to do
this and render this service for mankind, for the need
is so great. The time is so short and this makes it pos­
sible to reach enough of mankind to hold the balance.
You cannot quite understand just what those words
mean. Do you realize that it means the balance of the
whole earth, dear people? If America cannot call this
balance into action, then balance everywhere is lost
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 3*9
to the earth! I do not mean that anyone should feel
unduly responsible, but you can with a joyous and
happy feeling in your heart, make the necessary call,
not only to your Presence; but call the Presence to
reach Its Hands out; touch the hearts of mankind
and awaken them everywhere; that they may come
into this Light and the Understanding of their
“ Mighty I AM Presence” ; for It is the only means of
bringing the release which will hold the balance for
the people. There is no stabilization, there is no
means of holding the balance without it.
In those early years, when We were just feeling Our
way among mankind, will I ever forget those letters
I received from England and various parts of Europe!
Humanity telling Us what We should do, where We
had made Our mistakes and how to correct them. It
is wonderful, is it not, to be able to calmly and serenely
wait; to abide the time when the Great Cosmic Light
and Law will come to the assistance of the mass
and bring in Its train the Mighty Victory of the Light?
You have often been prompted and told what the
expression of the words “ I AM ” means; and how it
is the release of Infinite Power at your point in the
Universe. I remind you today, that your “ Mighty I
AM Presence” is Light. When you call the Power of
Light which is Life, into action, then you have entered
into the Greatest Stream of Purifying, Perfecting
Activity in the Universe. How can mankind expect
320 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
to be freed from its discord without this Great Light?
You will pardon Me for this crude expression. If
you were to find a pond in which much of the water
was out; and you walked through that and became
covered with mud, would you feel clean? In the mass
of human creation and that which you know as the
psychic world—which is the same as the astral world—
you begin to understand how mankind is moving
through a mass of very unhappy creation. If you do
not understand how to call the Presence to hold Its
Invincible Tube of Light about you; then it is very
much like walking through that pond, and your gar­
ments will become bedraggled. Do you not see it?
In mankind’s activities there are certain conditions
which must be fulfilled. Saint Germain and the Mes­
sengers with infinite patience have pled and pled
with mankind and told them the necessity—the need
of the hour. I rejoice so tremendously today. While
there is still room for more, yet the improvement has
been so great, that I want you to feel great encourage­
ment, everyone of you. If you have slipped once in a
while, then take a firmer hold and go on. Call on the
Law of Forgiveness and do not look back. Oh, do not
ever look back! You all know of the lady who took on
too much solidity by looking back. So let us not be
caught in that place.
Now beloved ones, rejoice with Me for I tell you
that through certain Mighty Air Currents, this
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 321
Tremendous Understanding is reaching into India
with a speed that is astonishing! You do not quite
understand that here, as they do in India. There are
hundreds of thousands of people in India today, who
understand how to use those air currents; and how
to contact them; and they are doing it. When the
Great Himalaya in your city—I believe it was in Pasa­
dena—
gave His Mighty Dictation; from that hour
to this, these Currents of Energy from this Work have
gone forth to India—particularly. That is why I am
here today.
I say these things to you so you may realize, be­
loved ones, that it is not just your immediate environ­
ment that is being blessed by your call to the Presence;
but your call is releasing Its far-reaching Powers. You
have been told a number of times, that It is reaching
into the mental and feeling world of mankind, but do
you realize how far? Do you realize it is the most
natural magnificent thing in the world? All is the
Presence and Activity of your Life. You are a part
of the One Great Life. True you are individualized;
but still you are a part of that One Great Life; and to
the degree that you keep harmonious, do you bless
and add to the Freedom of the world. To the degree
that you are out of harmony, do you add to the down-
pull of mankind into greater chains.
Beloved ones, to see unhappy individuals who try
to spread discord among humanity is the most pitiful
322 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
thing in all the whole world, that We are compelled
to look upon. Those individuals do not understand
that their viciousness is their own destruction. All
reason is gone, because they have become so en­
meshed in their viciousness. They think only of de­
struction and feel only that! The pity is that they
must meet and reap it all, but it cannot affect blessed
mankind! It does not! A few individuals, who might
be temporarily disturbed, soon right themselves and
go on in the Light.
Dear people, it is not a matter of human personali­
ties. It is not a matter of individualities; it is not a
matter of the requirement of human conditions, but
the Light has said: “ I shall take command of my
own” ! Look at your bodies! Look at this floor upon
which you move! Look upon the earth upon which
these buildings rest! All belongs to God! All belongs
to that Light! Mankind are custodians of certain sub­
stance, certain activity, certain requirements. If they
do not fulfill their trust and responsibility; no law in
heaven or earth can prevent them reaping the conse­
quences of the misuse of that Life and Energy which
flows through them! You are not responsible for any­
thing else, except what flows through you.
Do you realize, beloved ones, what is in this Light
which flows through your human form? I am speaking
now without your call. That Life contains all good
things. Then, to think that the ignorance and un-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 323
willing obedience of mankind is permitted to go on,
and on, and on, so long; imposing discord upon that
Perfect Light; which would of Its own volition make
them Perfect and hold in the body beauty of form
and Its Perfection. Yet because of unwilling obedi­
ence, they do not have It. When We look into the faces
of the beloved Students of the “ I AM ,” who have
come under Saint Germain’s Radiation, We see such a
transformation in those bodies; in those faces; in the
atmosphere of their feeling world around them, that
words fail utterly to convey to you Our rejoicing at
your Victory.
Do you realize, beloved ones, what it means to Us—
to Morya and Myself; We two who were so earnest, so
sincere? Yet, Our Beloved Saint Germain has ac­
complished more in three years, than We did in the
many years of Our humble efforts. I want you to know
this so you give Him all the gratitude of your hearts.
You do not yet quite know Him as We do; but it will
not be long now, as you often say. You know I must
necessarily be very familiar with your terminology
because of many letters I received in those years of
My humble efforts. We have had much happiness.
Sometimes before Our Ascension, We had heavy
hearts at mankind’s unwillingness to still the human
intellect; until the Light within the heart released
True Understanding. There is no failure in any sin­
cere effort; and everyone of you should feel that with
324 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
great great gratitude. Every single sincere effort which
you make must bring its great great reward in the Vic­
tory of the Light.
I rejoice, and you will I am sure with Me in these
Words. From the time the Great Goddess of Liberty
chose to take a part in this Freedom for mankind, the
atmosphere of earth has rapidly been taking on Her
transformation and Activity. Her Powers are be­
yond description! I shall never forget the night in
Philadelphia, when She announced Herself as the
One who gave Washington that Vision! I shall never
forget the Messenger’s feeling, for he had long wanted
to know.
Beloved ones, when a Great Being like She is
comes forth and gives continuous Assistance, then
surely mankind should be willing to do everything
within their power to co-operate with and give the
assistance necessary; to enable the Great Ones to do
for them what they cannot do for themselves. Did
you ever think of that? Do you really? Do you under­
stand what it means, beloved ones today, for Great
Beings of Freedom to come forth willingly, to give
you the Assistance and do for you what you cannot do
for yourselves? It only requires harmony in your feel­
ings and your call to your Source of Life; to enable
Them to give Assistance which you cannot gain by
yourself. It is a magnificent thing. Words fail utterly
to convey it! You must just accept it in your feeling.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 325
No words are capable of conveying what it means;
but you are the beneficiaries of this Magnificent
Blessing.
Just think, dear people, all that is asked of you is
to harmonize yourselves, make your earnest, deter­
mined call and keep it up. Not a single thing in the
world can stand any longer between you and your
Presence. The Light knows no opposition! It just
flows into your world, and that is the end of human
creation. It is so easy.
Only because mankind has not quite felt the
seriousness of inflexible obedience individually, they
think: Oh well, I can let go of this feeling now, then
I will call on the Law of Forgiveness and get by. I
would suggest you never do such a thing any more.
Do not make that mistake! We love you, Oh you can­
not imagine how much; but I say to you and I use
your terminology again—“ Do not kid yourselves.” I
mean that very seriously! You have all authority,
ability and power to keep yourselves harmonized and
allow this Great Infinite Power of Light to flow forth
and do Its Perfect Work for you. If you will not do it,
then you can blame no one but yourselves.
With the opening of this coming Shrine Class
you will find a new world opening before you. The
Cosmic Radiance is reaching a certain point of activ­
ity where every sincere individual, who has been mak­
ing his call, will begin to find a response that he has
326 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
not known heretofore. I ask you to watch it in your
individual lives! These things are mighty! You are
dealing with the Great Laws of Life, beloved ones. It is
not human opinion! It is no one’s imagination. You
are dealing with definite Laws and do not forget it.
To the degree that you obey them, will you find every­
thing which has been disturbing you quickly dissolv­
ing and disappearing from your world.
There are hundreds, and hundreds, and thousands,
of the blessed “ I A M ” Students in America today, who
will soon begin to experience this with such definite­
ness and power that there will no longer be any ques­
tion. When you begin to feel this, feel your Dominion,
feel more and more humble each day; then as you
gain strength, power and energy in the release
through the call to your Presence; you will pour forth
such a Power of Freedom and Blessing to your fellow-
man, your environment and your associates, as you
never did before.
Today, as We were looking over your city and see­
ing what was required for the coming Class, Our
Hearts, Oh how Our Hearts rejoiced! There were
great Streams of Light and Energy going up from
hundreds of individuals in your city and environ­
ment. For your great earnestness, We just stopped
and gave praise and thanks to the Source of all Life,
that it is possible today for mankind to be so
awakened; to be so earnest in this call that it is tangi-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T B27
ble and visible to Us. With some of you, who have had
moments when you wondered how much your prog­
ress had been; if you had seen it, I am sure nothing
could hold you here long.
It is a remarkable thing how in the Great Law of
Life, mankind must reach a certain state of advance­
ment; in other words a certain state in the expansion
of their own Light; or as I prefer to put it, a certain
attitude of Radiation, when like that (wave of hand)
all of the lower element just like a curtain draws
back. Then, you enter into the Glory which is the
Real Youl
You are so magnificent! These garments which you
wear do not always have such perfect appearance: I
mean the garments of flesh, but still You, the Reality,
are so Beautiful, so Perfect. Oh, you are standing so
much nearer to that Perfection, today, than a single
one of you in this room realizes! Oh, may My Words
be Strength, Encouragement and great Courage to
you to go on and on, until the complete Victory is sure.
Then, when you look back upon the achievement and
find all which has held and bound you is dissolved
from your world, what a rejoicing! In all the world
there is nothing so magnificent.
Today, as we are here in this room, everyone is
lifted above the human consciousness; for human
consciousness is the only place in which imperfection
exists. If you but realized it and determined to stay
328 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
there—Oh yes, you would move around in your
human forms quite naturally; but the difference in
your feeling world would be amazing.
You know, when you suddenly place a thermometer
where there is heat, how it goes up and down? That
is the way with the consciousness and vibratory action
of mankind. Today in this Radiance you are raised.
W ill you please take advantage of the opportunity
and determine to stand in It and remain there? You
can do it! You can positively do it! Then, as you gain
one step after another all of a sudden, you will see the
Glory you truly are. You have seen the top of the
mountain through the fog. Just like that you will
stand head and shoulders above all human creation.
When you really see the Glory which you really are,
nothing will stop you again. You will go forward in
the Mighty Victory of Light! Today, in the fulness of
this Light; in the fulness of Its Radiant Power flood­
ing your being and world; be calm, be firm, be more
determined than ever, with a great calm serenity; to
release from your Presence all that is required, to give
you the complete Victory; for it is your Presence
which does it. Please do not forget this for one single
moment. It is your Presence which accomplishes the
Victory. You stand calm and serene in your call! Is it
not so little to do; to enter into your own World of
Freedom, after so many centuries of limitations? Yet
it is coming. It is so great, so marvelous.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 329
I want to say something very encouraging to the
people of California, possibly Saint Germain may de­
cide to make you more aware of it during the Shrine
Class, but even then, I want you to know today how
much the Freedom of America, the protection of
America, has been held by your wondrous applica­
tion here. The people of California have made it
possible for much to be done which otherwise would
have been impossible—financially and otherwise. I
want you to know of the great service which you are
rendering. It is very wonderful indeed. Ere long in
the cities of the East, there will come this same great
awakening in numbers. You were so ready and so
willing. It is marvelous indeed.
Beloved ones, in our heart to heart talk today, I
want you to know how deep is the Gratitude in My
Heart to you; and how deep is the Gratitude in My
Heart to the Great God Himalaya for opening the air
channels of the earth. Some day, We shall tell you
more about this. It is magnificent!
You are coming to understand the things that
heretofore have been considered unusual. Yet, I say
to you, there is not one thing in all the wide world
unusual. All is an activity of your Life. All is an ac­
tivity of the Law of Life. Therefore, Life compels it
to be natural. Do you not see this? In mankind’s par­
tial understanding, things were made mystical; and
it caused the people to feel far away, instead of enter-
330 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
ing into the Glory of that which was their own Life.
T ry to feel more and more each day how practical
all of this Great Law of Life is; and how It is you.
You may have the fulness of Its Understanding and
operation if you will.
Just keep on calling and reaching out. Steadily and
surely, just like a warm breath there will come into
your consciousness, one thing after another in cour­
age, strength and confidence. Knowing the great need
today I tell you, it is not possible to be deprived of it.
It is yours! It is your Life which is acting. How could
you be deprived of it?
In the glory of this Infinite Power of Action, I want
you to feel that you have entered into the greatest
Law in the Universe; the Law of your own Life! and
Its Mighty Activity which every human being can use
at his own point in the Universe—wherever you care
to be.
Beloved ones, I know how you feel many times;
but whatever your service is, keep pouring forth this
Great Radiance from your Presence; calling It forth
into action to bless your environment, your associates,
your conditions and those about you. Oh, it is such an
opportunity for service! You cannot possibly know
yet, how great a blessing that will carry forward to
many in your environment.
Do you know that everyone of you can make your­
self such a blazing Sun of Light wherever you move;
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 331
that the Radiance from your Presence will go forth
with tremendous Power, to bless those about you?
Will you just do that and feel the great Joy of it? Joy
is the great motor of Life, and in it are all possibilities.
You can generate limitless joy; because your Presence
and the Life which beats your heart is the fulness of
that joy. It is not something you have to pull out from
somewhere. It is right there within you, ready to ex­
pand itself; and your attention to the “ Mighty I AM
Presence” automatically causes It to flow forth, with
greater and greater Volume, power and intensity.
Therefore, in the Glory of the Light which is your
Life, be happy! Be willing to give It the obedience
required to set you free.
You all know the need of using the Tube of Light
and the Violet Consuming Flame. As you continue to
use It the Infinite Power of your Presence will do all
that is required and set you free. Keep at it with
greater and greater determination. Refuse to accept
any moment of doubt or question of your ability, to
call your Presence into action.
I say, today, to some who have had difficulty in their
application: yield not an inch to any discordant ap­
pearance. It does not matter whether there is pain in
your body or not; if it be there, then it does not belong
to you. Be firm! Be determined in dismissing it! It is
only the atomic structure through your feeling world
which feels it. You have all power in the call to your
332 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
Presence to stop it. In your moments of stillness, call
the Presence to dissolve cause, effect and record of it.
Then, no longer will you be troubled by it. Today,
you are in the position when you get rid of a thing,
you can erase its record. Then, never again let it touch
your world. That is your great privilege. Utilize it,
beloved ones, in its fulness.
I feel the great strength in everyone of you and
know that you are going forward quickly into the
fulness of your Victory—
everyone of you! I thank you
for this opportunity today to speak My Heart to yours;
and to let you know that I rejoice with you in the sure
and steady Victory you are winning. Blessed people of
California, you have made it possible for this Light
to be carried to the rest of America. It is magnificent!
It is marvelous!
In the fulness of the Infinite Power of Light, the
Glory of God, the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” I call Its
Almighty Power into action to enfold you in Its In­
finite Protection; direct you by Its Mighty Intelli­
gence; cause all human mistakes and discord to cease
at once in and from your world forever; to set you
free and to give you such courage and confidence in
your call, in your application, that every time you
apply the Law the answer comes quickly. May It give
you the full consciousness of your Victory in the Light
now! I thank you.
M O R Y A E L ’ S D I S C O U R S E
NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK
MAY 15, 1938
I
N BR IN G IN G the Great Power of Light closer
to your attention, beloved students of America
and the world, may I too have a humble part
in this Great Service of the Light to all the world?
You are rendering a service to America, yourselves,
mankind and the world. In observing all that has been
accomplished—and it is beyond all description; it
compels Me to draw your attention to the great funda­
mental work of Kuthumi and Myself; in releasing to
the world what Light was permissible in the begin­
ning of the Theosophical Society.
I draw this comparison, so you may see that man­
kind cannot be anchored firmly to the Power of Light
and Truth without knowing this Great Presence of
the “ I AM ,” of which your Chart represents the eye-
picture. Dear ones, there is no Power to hold you
anchored; there is no Focus of Power, until mankind
knows the individualized God Presence, the “ Mighty
I AM .”
The Cosmic Light not only permits it but demands
that mankind use the words “ I AM ” with the Under­
standing that they are the Infinite Power; and that
333
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
334
each one has this Great individualized God Presence
which supplies Life and ever greater Intelligence
with which to act. There is only this One Source, one
Point or Focus of Light to which you can come. Un­
less you come to this Point in your attention, you can­
not have Its Freedom and Perfection. Neither you
nor anyone on earth can expand the Light to a larger
degree, until you give your attention to your own
“ Mighty I AM Presence” and hold it there.
I do not mean that you must interrupt your daily
activities, in order to give your attention to the Pres­
ence; but when a lull comes in your outer activity,
you can turn your attention to your “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” For instance, the ladies or gentlemen who
are in the department stores can return to the Pres­
ence for a few moments between activities; even when
their attention is constantly being turned here, there
and everywhere concerning the requirements. There
is no individual who does not have one minute or two
minutes in which he can turn his attention to the
Presence and receive Its charge back into himself and
his world. That is practicing the Presence! and when
you come to do that, beloved ones, you will find such
results as will satisfy the most exacting.
When Kuthumi and I began to try to release to
mankind greater Light and Understanding, We could
only go so far. Really great accomplishment was at­
tained—there is no question about that; but the Light
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 335
could not go forth to Its fulness, until mankind
understood the individualized Presence of the
“ Mighty I AM ” and the absolute imperative need of
harmony in the feelings.
Had We been permitted to call the attention of
the people to the imperative need of harmony in their
feelings in the beginning of Our Work, much greater
Light could have been released. Oh, of course We did
show them the need to some degree, but We could not
force upon the people at that time what We knew to
be necessary. Today, the Cosmic Light is doing just
that in Its Service to mankind. It is a wholly imper­
sonal thing. Now, the Cosmic Light is impelling and
compelling the feeling world of humanity to accept,
take hold of and utilize this Great Power which is
their own Life.
All of the Ascended Masters have said to you, that
heretofore in past centuries whatever was considered
mysterious, mystical or occult is not mystical today.
It is just your own Life being set into greater action!
I do not yet feel that it might be necessary or that it
will be done; but were We to show you how mysti­
cism, occultism and all the things that seemed so
mysterious; were imposed upon mankind you would
be amazed. It was not by Us, but by mankind’s own
concepts. The people themselves, through certain
individuals, clothed this Great Action of Life with
mystery; because they did not know where the indi-
336 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
vidualized Presence of the “ I A M ” was nor how Its
Energy was released.
That is what makes a thing mysterious. If you do
not know its source; if you do not know what you are
dealing with, then a thing is mysterious, is it not?
Realize this! Is there anything mysterious when you
understand it? From the smallest to the greatest
nothing is mysterious, when you understand what it is
and how it is acting. Remember! you cannot do a
thing in the world unless your own Life is acting; and
your own Presence above gives you Its Life! Its In­
finite Power!
Through your attention to your own Great Pres­
ence of Life, you can draw the intense, ever-increasing
fulness of Life into action; into your body; and into
your human octave of activity. That is where it is
required. Life is already full Dominion up there,
(pointing to Presence above).
I rejoice exceedingly in two very great surprises
which are coming forth to you in the near future;
bearing right upon this which I am talking about to­
day. Will you, everyone, try to feel that you cannot
take a breath; you cannot move a finger; unless the
Power of your “ Mighty I AM Presence” is acting and
enabling you to do it? You cannot think a thought!
Let Us clear the decks today, concerning the Power
of your own Freedom acting right here; and deter­
mine with all the Power and Activity of your Presence,
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 337
to no longer accept discordant appearances in the
outer world.
Beloved ones, why do you still find it difficult to
release yourselves from certain things? With one it is
the health, with another it is the financial supply.
Just because you are unknowingly allowing your at­
tention to fasten to the appearance of the condition.
Because your pocket seems to be empty you declare
you have no money. From the appearance standpoint,
you do not have it in manifestation; but here (point­
ing above) you do have it. Your Presence has all the
money in creation—all you could ever use in the
world; but because you are accepting the fact that
your pocket or pocket-book is empty, it keeps your
attention fixed upon the appearance. The repellant
force or fear, or whatever is acting is depriving you;
because you give it more power in your sphere of
activity, your physical focus here, than you do your
“ Mighty I AM Presence.” You have not given the
Presence the full Power which belongs to It. You do
not give It the opportunity to act.
Will you take the same stand that the Messengers
did, when Saint Germain asked them to go forth?
They did not have any money either. It was just
enough to get to Philadelphia, but they put the whole
activity up to the Presence. They said: “ Now ‘Mighty
I AM Presence’ this is Your Work! You have all the
supply, money and everything else that is required
338 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
to supply us and send us forward, if you want to do
it,” and the Presence did! The “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” answered!
In every problem, whether it be your health, fi­
nances or whatever it may be, please try to do the
same thing; and see if it will not give you complete
release. If it be your health say: “ ‘Mighty I AM Pres­
ence’ this is your body! I call on the Law of Forgive­
ness for all the mistakes I have made and for getting
into this condition. I want to fulfill the Law! This is
your body! You take command of it and make it per­
fect.” Dear hearts, do you think there is anything in
the world that could stand between you and your
health, if you do that? In doing this, you have given
all power unto the Presence, which is all Health. Its
Ray of Light and Energy is beating your heart! Then,
how in the world could you fail to accept Its Health?
The same way with your pocket-book: ‘“ Mighty
I AM Presence!’ here I am for service” ! Whether you
want to give a particular service to the Light or in
the business world; you are still serving the Light, if it
be constructive and it is not harming anyone. This
is one thing I hope I can get clear to you, dear ones:
The outer world requires tremendous service yet in
industry and business activities. You cannot all leave
the business activity to go into the Service of the
Light; because you still need material food as yet. So
let the Power of Wisdom just raise you into the next
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 339
step, the next, and on, and on. Do not humanly try
to go ahead and do that. Just say: “ ‘Mighty I AM
Presence’ here ‘I AM ’. ‘I A M ’ ready, ‘I AM ’ willing!
send me forth and cause me to do the Perfect Thing
that You wish me to do every moment.” Then, you
will just step right on, and on, and on, into the Perfect
Activity of the moment. That is what is needed today.
It might be that the Higher Mental Body of many
of you will want to keep you as a Focus of Light and
Power in the industrial and business world; so It can
pour Its Power forth there to harmonize things in the
business world; and bring Divine Order and Divine
Justice. Of course you catapult It forth by your
Mighty Decrees in the mental and feeling world of
mankind; but many times there must be a Focus for
the Light—a human form in the locality, in order to
hold the Power there long enough to establish a
permanent accomplishment.
This is a point I want to make clear to you; es­
pecially in the City of New York: You are becoming
a Mighty Focus of Light here. Once your city was the
greatest focus of intrigue in America. Now it is about
fifty-fifty with Washington, D. C. That is not sur­
prising. You never saw the Capital of any country in
the world which was not a focus of all the intrigue
imaginable.
Now, you have come to know this, do you not see
how the call from the “ I AM ” Students here can
340 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
change the condition of the city? In the great number
of students, which is small in comparison with the
population, but great in comparison with the short
period of time; think what five hundred thousand
students could do in focusing their Mighty Decrees
into your city; into Washington, D. C.: to charge
into the mental and feeling world of the people there
—like dynamite in action—a mighty powerful Con­
structive Power for Divine Justice and Divine Order.
Well, is there anything greater in the world which
can bring permanent adjustment of all conditions?
You need not have Me tell you, that all civilizations
of the world have failed; because there was no one in
them to call the attention of the people to this Great
Presence of all Life the “ Mighty I AM .” Mankind
is lost without It! Let anyone of you today stop this
hour thinking of or giving any further attention to
your “ Mighty I AM Presence” and see where you
would be inside of three months. If you have the
courage to test it out, you will see it plain enough.
I tell you, beloved students, you have no more idea
than an infant what it would mean; if all attention
that has thus far been gained and focused were sud­
denly discontinued in America. What do you sup­
pose would happen inside of three to six months? I
mean to individuals as well as the nation? We are
determined that you blessed ones, who have been so
loyal, so sincere and determined in your application,
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 34i
are going to have your heart’s Freedom; that you may
go on rendering greater service.
Beloved ones, if there are any of you who have
been having difficulty with your financial supply, get
it right down under your foot now and master it. I
tell you that thing no longer has any power over you!
Let us stop your human qualification right now!
“ ‘Mighty I AM Presence’ take command of every
mind and body that has any sense of financial limita­
tion! Take out of them that feeling, whether it be
fear or whatever difficulty it is, acting as financial
limitation! Take it out right now! and set them free!
Take it out, cause, effect and record! Set them free
right now in the Power of their Presence; that their
calls may be answered with the speed of lightning and
the power of complete release.”
The same Activity shall charge forth regarding
your health, or the harmony you require in your feel­
ing world. There is no one person living, who cannot
from this moment hold absolute harmony in his feel­
ings; if he will watch and at the slightest intimation
of disturbance in his feelings say: “ STO P” ! Any per­
son on earth can control it if he will. Do not let any
self pity act now, dear hearts! Do not yield to anything
or say: “ I cannot do this, or I cannot do that.” Instead
say: “ I can do anything! for ‘I A M ’ the Presence and
Power.” When you say: “ I can’t,” you are saying the
Presence can’t; because you cannot use “ I” and not be
342 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
the Power of the Presence. When you say “ I AM,”
that is the full release of the Power of the ‘‘Mighty
I AM Presence” at your focus of Life right here, to
do whatever is decreed.
For a moment, will you just still yourselves and let
this Power, which has flooded the room enfold you?
Let It just be absorbed into your feeling world and
your physical body, like a sponge absorbing water.
The charge is tremendous here in the room, and the
Great Ones wish to give you all the Assistance pos­
sible. Just for a moment close your eyes and feel It
saturate your whole body, your feeling world and
your activity. After a few moments of that, just
silently say to your Presence: “ ‘Mighty I AM Pres­
ence’ charge this forth into my world, my activity for
my financial supply; for my Perfect health; for the
harmony of my Being and my Blessing which I can
pour out to all mankind through sustained harmony
in my feelings.
(Silence)
The remainder of the day and tomorrow, will you
try to remind yourself of this once each hour; that the
Great Ones may be enabled to give you the Conscious­
ness of your Freedom in every way? We want you to be
such a Powerful Focus of this Light, that you can give
a clear marvelous explanation of this Teaching. You
do not know this yet; but before long you are going
to find a flood of people coming into this Instruction.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 343
It will need everyone of you with a clear understand­
ing of this explanation of the “ I AM Presence” and
what the Work is. Be sure you answer all questions
from the books or the magazines.
Dear ones, when you can say to the world: “ Now
this is the Answer of the Ascended Masters to these
things,” you will find the people will not be so in­
clined to question you, as if they think you yourself
are giving the answer. You have no idea what it means
as this Work expands. There are a lot of people who
are argumentative and when you say: “ These are the
Ascended Masters’ Words,” and they say: “ How do
I know it is true”? You can simply answer: “ You can
believe it or not. The Ascended Masters are the only
Authority, because They are free Beings, wholly Per­
fect.” Then, the people cannot come back to you and
say: “ Well, why haven’t you manifested this yet”?
Do you not see the idea? Hundreds of people have
said to the students: “ Well if this Light is what you
say it is, why are you not out-picturing it”? Tell them
it is none of their business! It is none of their business
what you are out-picturing. How much do they know
about what is in your Life Stream, which has to be
cleared out? When you give that answer to people,
you will clinch it. Then they cannot come back to
you and say: “ Why are you not out-picturing the
action of this Law more”? That is the disturbing ac­
tion which wants to get you down! It has no power!
344 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
The Messengers have often said to you, if you
would so prepare yourselves to answer every question
from the books, you could never be tripped up by the
human. They were not permitted to go on and say
why; but I am saying it to you today, for you will save
yourselves a lot of distress.
It is the sheerest nonsense for any human being to
say to another; “ Well if you are applying this Law,
why are you not having greater results” ? Such a ques­
tion is purely human destructive resentment, nothing
else! It might be a psychic projection, but still it is
the same thing. Do you not see how you are com­
pletely released from the responsibility of anybody
coming back at you, when you say: “ These are the
Ascended Masters’ Words” ? I want to tell you it is a
magnificent thing!
You have no idea of the Freedom and Release from
human feelings, it will give you, if you will do this.
Oh, you have no idea, my dear people, how this
human destructive thing in the world is rapidly being
compelled to let go. Do not think it does not want
to hold on; but if you could see the great great quan­
tity of human creation which has been completely
dissolved and consumed in the Violet Consuming
Flame, your joy would be boundless.
You think you have been doing great things in
your application. What do you suppose We have been
doing in the meantime? I know you cannot think
\
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 345
that this sounds egotistical, because an Ascended Be­
ing could not say egotistical things, but I give you
this reminder: Whenever you have called the Pres­
ence into action to dissolve and consume discord and
limitation; We have added Our Energy, Power and
Light to that which you have released, at least a
hundred fold; because We have the Understanding
and the clearness of Unlimited Vision; to see what
Our Power released does! This you do not yet fully
comprehend. There are so many individuals among
the students in America and now in the various parts
of the world, who if there were suddenly released to
them the True Vision of their own individual ac­
complishment; I tell you they would be dynamite
from that hour on; because they are releasing tre­
mendous power, in the dissolving and consuming of
the human creation. The Divine Director has ren­
dered the most indescribable service to your city; be­
cause it ishoped—
and our little lady here (Mrs. Fisher)
I see was getting the feeling—it is hoped to make this
a Mighty Focus of Light. As the Messenger has written
a very beautiful song, words and music, called Rain­
bow Rays; so should those Rainbow Rays connect
with Los Angeles and make a powerful Focus, at those
two Mighty Points on the landed surface of America.
I cannot give you further explanation just now than
that, but it would be a mighty thing. Sometime later,
you will have the rest of the explanation.
346 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
You have seen the rainbow in the sky with its
various activities, sometimes you have seen the com­
plete circle. If you were up in the air in an airplane,
you would see the full rainbow in the complete
circle. The Rainbow represents a certain activity, for
it is a symbol of fulfilment to the earth. Now it is
coming into a Cosmic Activity; and the Great Cosmic
Beings are bringing these colors into a focus, through
the Light Rays which your rainbow represents. That
will be a Mighty Activity! Notice! If the segment of
your rainbow goes over or through the atmosphere to
Los Angeles, then where do you suppose the rest of it
is? Oh, it is all there! It goes right on around through
the earth and back here. Then what does that do?
It is the Power of the Cosmic Light. Through
consciously directed Light Rays, containing all these
qualities the rainbow goes around and through the
earth. It regulates the power and activity of the gas
belts by the Power of the Cosmic Light.
Now you see what your call has done for three and
a half years for this protection. The opening day of
your class here in New York that rainbow—the com­
plete circle—will take Its Dominion in America!
Then, you can understand why this blessed one has
had such an All-powerful impelling force to issue
these Decrees; and do the Work in an untiring mar­
velous manner, which would enable the protection to
be given. What do you think that means? I know this
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 347
will make you all very happy. It means that it will
not be long, until in New York and Los Angeles, you
will have your own Mighty Temple of Light; for the
service of the Messengers and yourselves whenever
We wish to bring them here.
These two Focuses, according to My Idea, should
be held invincible in America. I want you to see that
this is the culmination and result of your Mighty De­
crees. You have gone on very wonderfully issuing
those Decrees for the gas belts and all that kind of
thing. Today, I feel quite honored in becoming the
spokesman, Who brings to your attention the out-
picturing of this accomplishment; because I Myself
have not had so great a part in it. I have had to do
some tremendous Work in Europe which demanded
My Attention; and today it is wonderful beyond de­
scription. With the continued faithfulness of the be­
loved students to the Presence of Light, the “ Mighty I
AM,” and with an ever-increasing determination to
release Its Mighty Power into the human octave, you
will see your reward is at hand, if you care to look at it
in that way. Yet I plead with you, do not ever do any­
thing fo a reward. It is not the correct attitude, but
the reward always comes. It is not quite the proper ex­
pression, but you are accustomed to using it. Instead
of the word “ reward” let us change it to Victory.
Instead of your reward will come your “Victory.” It
is very much better.
348 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
I tell you frankly, beloved ones, you have no idea
how certain expressions, which you have been ac­
customed to use create certain conditions. You know
every voiced expression creates a definite vibratory
action; and it would be very much better if some of
them were changed.
Notice the Great Wisdom of Saint Germain and
the Others in bringing forth this Work. They de­
manded and have held imperatively to it, that all
technical terminology, Oriental expression and all
that kind of thing be left out of this Work. The Mes­
sengers, thank God, have been firm enough to stand
by it and keep it out. You have no idea, today, what
it means to you by its being kept out; because a new
world is before you in which everything will be sim­
plicity and the Power of the “ Mighty I AM Presence”
in action. Keeping out all the old worded expression
is the only way it can be done. Technical terminology
and involved phrasing of mankind was established to
confuse the people. Today, it shall be no more! The
greatest Power of Life answers your calls and acts
through the greatest simplicity, with Purity and Hon­
esty of purpose.
The cleansing, purifying activity in the world of
these students in America has been the most wonder­
ful thing We have ever witnessed. I tell you beloved
students, if you could see what your application in
calling to the “ Mighty I AM Presence” and your use
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 349
of the Violet Consuming Flame has been, your hearts
would rejoice more than anything you could imagine.
You cannot make the call without the Presence set­
ting Its Great Power of Light into action for you. It
is magnificent!
Remember, beloved ones! your call to the “ I AM
Presence,” the Tube of Light and the Violet Con­
suming Flame are the things which set mankind free.
First, the Activity of your Presence is a great Pro­
tection from the feeling world about you. You have
enough of your own to take care of; and that Tube of
Light will shut the rest out and keep it out, if you re­
main harmonious within it. Then, as you ask the
Presence to pass the Violet Consuming Flame through
yourself, will you have fulfilled the Law completely.
This is a delicate point, when you say your atten­
tion will do a certain thing. Then you say, do not keep
your attention upon certain things—it sounds like a
paradox, but it is not! Keep your attention upon the
Constructive Things and not on the destructive or
the limiting conditions for that is the need today. As
you do this, you will find such great results in your
application.
This activity I referred to in the beginning of
the opening of the class will do tremendous things
for America. However, I will not discuss that further.
I will leave it to a later activity to complete it. Stand
unyielding in all of your outer requirements. Do not
350 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
for a single instant give power to any of the seeming
limitations about you; whether it be concerning your­
self, your city, your friends or anything else. The
minute the attention starts to focus there, say: “ Oh
no! come back here where you belong! ‘Mighty I AM
Presence’ sweep into this and correct it” ! Then, take
your attention away from it and place it on your own
“ Mighty I AM Presence.”
The same way with your body and your pocket-
book. If your attention begins to rest there say: “ Hold
on now! My attention does not belong there, it be­
longs up here where the Power is which fills my
pocket-book. So go up there.” You will find that you
will be able, through some of those seemingly simple
activities, to gain a Dominion and Authority in your
outer consciousness which is absolutely marvelous.
You know there are a few things which you can
get rid of most quickly by ridiculing them. Many
times, it takes just some little thing to release your
complete Victory. For instance, like the above expres­
sion. When the attention begins to fix on the empty
pocket-book and you say: “ Oh no, hold on! You get
up to my Presence where the supply is” ; it will give
you the confidence that you are actually doing the
right thing, and of course in such a feeling, you will
get the immediate results.
The Messengers have often offered the suggestion
that you charge yourselves in the evening. For in-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 351
stance, suppose you added to your charge before going
to sleep at night: “ ‘Mighty I AM Presence’ fill my
purse with the limitless supply of money, I require for
use in your Service of the Light.” Then, you go to
sleep in the full feeling and confidence that your
Presence is supplying you constantly; and as our
beloved Lotus says: “ ten times more than you need” ;
then you will find it will come! Do not be discouraged,
if your results have not been all your heart desires.
Keep on reaching out as it were in your feeling, to
get the right application which you particularly re­
quire, to govern your feeling of the condition.
I am sure you see why you should do that. If one
phase of application is not handling the condition
which you particularly require, reach out to the
Presence and say: “ ‘Mighty I AM Presence’! You
make me feel the kind of application, the right ap­
plication, I should have here in order to accomplish
this.” Then, in a moment it will surge forth and be
done. Never forget that the Power of Light is render­
ing the service.
It is a very wonderful thing to see how the blessed
ones are so willing to remain, when a Service is being
rendered. Is there any better place to be in the whole
world than in the Presence of Light and the Ascended
Masters? So, whatever service you are rendering to
the Light, remember it is the greatest thing on earth.
You have been here two hours and a half and that is
352 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
marvelous beyond words. Every hour you can spend
in adoration or attention to the Presence, I mean with
joyousness—not with a sense of effort; you will see
how rapidly you are reaching into the Heart of your
“ Mighty I AM Presence” ; where Eternal Freedom
and the supply of all the outer world requires are re­
leased to you. It is very wonderful, beloved ones. You
have noticed in various parts of America in the
beginning, the students thought an hour and a half
was a good while to be focused upon these things
Now, you do not think anything about three hours.
Mankind have been willing to give eight hours or
twelve hours to the contemplation of all kinds of
destructive things. Then, why not give three hours
to the Presence of Life? Oh dear ones, this is the
most wonderful thing in the world; and when We do
a thing because Our love to it is so great, then Our
results are indescribable.
I wish I had time to go on and just very briefly tell
you about Our, Kuthumi’s and My early experiences.
If you knew how some of the students called Us every­
thing. The human has a lot of audacity, you know;
but We were called about everything imaginable, be­
cause We demanded a few simple requirements of
obedience. I, Myself, had some of the most drastic
letters written Me. So, you should not mind if you are
criticized sometimes. I did not; and I am glad to see
the Messengers do not mind it; then you should not.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 353
Dear ones, whenever you come to the point where
anybody can say anything they please about you and
you just smile and go right on about your business;
then you are free and the rest of the requirements will
manifest so quickly. As soon as the outer world of
human creation sees it cannot jab you and get you
irritated and disturbed; then it knows it is wasting its
time and does not bother you any more. Did you ever
see two children, one a great tease, who goes around
pinching and prodding the other to get him dis­
turbed? That one goes on and if he cannot get a
response from the other, he does not do it any more.
It is the same with human creation. When it sees it
has lost its influence over you, it goes somewhere else;
but when it starts going some place else, you say:
“Violet Consuming Flame! seize it! so it cannot act
somewhere else. Annihilate it!
I want to tell you, beloved ones, you can call to the
Presence and then watch It. You do not have to have
Inner sight for this; but just mentally make the pic­
ture of the Violet Consuming Flame going out, as
though it were in your hand, directed by your hand
and say: “ Mighty Consuming Flame! seize that
thing” ! It is just the same way with any condition in
your world: “ Mighty Consuming Flame! seize that
thing, dissolve and consume all impurities there” !
You can handle any condition in your body, Oh, as
easy as breathing. It has gotten into your hair too
354 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
much, that is the reason you do not handle it. Oh, do
not mind if We use slang phrases, you will have to
get used to them. That is ofttimes the reason you can
release a thing; because in the certain peculiar feel­
ing which is stirred into action, you are able to let go
of it like that. Then it is finished.
Dear ones, not one single thing of a limiting dis­
cordant nature can live in your world, unless your
attention is feeding your Life Energy into it to make
it live. Oh, do you not see that? There cannot a thing
reach you, touch your world or live in your world—
I
do not care whether it be inside of your body or out­
side, unless your attention goes to it! and thereby
feeds the Life Stream into it to energize it. It cannot
do it. Oh, dear hearts, make up your mind to take
your attention off the disturbance and put it on the
Presence; knowing the Presence has directed Its Light
Rays to dissolve it. Then, you are through with it.
In this Understanding you are absolutely Master of
your mind, body and your world.
I am very grateful, extremely so, for all that has
been accomplished for your blessed selves today. I
bless you with all My Love. I am supposed to be a
rather austere, dignified individual, but only when
necessity demands. The Ascended Masters, beloved
ones, are all that is joyful, happy; and Oh, with the
Happiness that every human heart has craved. To­
day, you are in a position to have this very Happiness
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T S55
of the Ascended Masters manifest in your Life, your
body, your world. Let it come forth in the fulness of
Its Great Power!
I call the Power of Light, the Great Cosmic Light
and the Great Rainbow of the Cosmic Beings to be
charged into your being and world; in all the “ I AM ”
Activity in America and the world; with Their In­
finite Power of action to carry those mighty Qualities
which mankind needs to set them free most quickly.
May everyone through the Power of his attention
hold this anchorage in his feeling world and ac­
tivity; so the Glory of the Light may produce and
hold Its Dominion quickly. Let each one be in the
particular Service of the Light, which each heart
wishes to render. Whether it be in your business
world or anywhere else, just be happy and let the full
Power of your happiness flow through. Then, your
associates, your employees or those who are under this
Radiation will feel that Happiness, Glory and Divine
Order are established; and Divine Justice is done
everywhere; because where individuals are happy
they are willing to give Divine Justice. It is only when
irritation and anger come in that mankind becomes
stubborn in the human. Then, the human creation
of selfishness and discord rush in, causing very lovely
people sometimes to want to do the wrong thing.
Therefore, withdraw all criticism and condemna­
tion from persons, places and conditions. Pour it all
356 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
into the Violet Consuming Flame and turn your at­
tention to the “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Ask the
Presence to take command of all minds and bodies
on earth and their activity. Charge into their earthly
activity every Perfection which the Presence holds;
and then see the Power of the Light hold Its Domin­
ion forever. I thank you.
H I L A R I O N ’ S D I S C O U R S E
LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA
DECEMBER 17, 1 9 3 7
I
G R E E T you, beloved Children of the Light, in
the Name of your “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
Tonight, I shall try to help you feel and under­
stand your ability, your great power to become what
We are today.
In the outer world of understanding and that,
which has previously come forth concerning Those
who are acting under the Seven Rays of the God­
head, each Ray performing a certain service; I wish
you to understand that every Ascended Master, being
wholly Perfect, is equal to any emergency and gives
Service wherever it is required. It does not matter
what the particular activity is, the demand is the im­
portant thing.
I perceive that few yet understand what it means
when they make the call to their “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence.” If for any reason, you are not yet able to
generate the full power and feeling, to bring the
sufficient release of your own energy from your own
“ Mighty I AM Presence” ; ofttimes through the
Higher Mental Body, the call comes to Us—shall I say
to Our Octave, for Assistance. The One who receives
357
35« ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
your call immediately projects a Current of Energy
or Ray of Light and gives the Assistance required.
The “ Mighty I AM Presence” is the Authority of
the Whole Universe. We all obey that Great Presence
of Life! As unascended beings, who are not yet suf­
ficiently aware that you have all authority and power
in the acknowledgment of your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” ; you need assistance, strength, encouragement,
joy and happiness. All of those qualities go to make
up the needed harmony within your feeling world;
which stops the re-qualifying and re-clothing of your
Life, with the qualities that are acting in your feeling
world.
That is the only possible thing which causes limita­
tions in the activity of mankind. If you left it alone—
now notice carefully—if you left this Stream of Energy
alone as it flows in, beats your heart and then flows
out into your world; it would naturally produce full
and complete Perfection, but you do not do that.
You generate feelings for one reason or another of
more or less discord; and this energy flowing through
is compelled to be clothed. It is just as if you wrapped
around that current of energy the discord which is in
your feeling. It has to go out into your world and of
course produces conditions like its quality in which
you clothe it.
Do you not see why the Messengers have pled and
pled with you for the need of harmony in your feel-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 359
ings? Beloved ones, I say to you with all firmness and
kindness: you cannot go much further until you take
the determined stand to completely govern your feel­
ings; for out of that comes Freedom for everything
that is.
This energy which is waiting to release its greater
power is always there. You cannot have a physical
body and not have your “ Mighty I AM Presence”
above you or Its Energy limitless and ready to flow
forth; but you allow your attention to be so held
upon the outer appearance world, that you forget
your Presence and Its Energy. I know even among
the students, with some very earnest ones, something
suddenly flares before you, and my gracious! it is so
apparent that you, for the moment, forget your Pres­
ence. Oh, it often occurs! Yet, the moment something
starts to appear before you, stop everything and say:
“ ‘Mighty I AM Presence’! take command! Stop that” !
Then you have the action of alertness!
One must be alert, beloved ones, in your applica­
tion of this Law; because if you stop an appearance
before it begins to gain a momentum in your Life,
it is easy; it is not a struggle. The Light never strug­
gles! Mankind do in their application, because they
think they must struggle. Of course that is not neces­
sary.
I want to try to make this all so practical to you.
All of this is yourself! We are yourself, perhaps a little
36o ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
more advanced; but We are your Life! Your Life right
now this moment! Think of it! Right this moment
your heart is beating, is it not? What is beating it?
Life! The Greatest Power and Intelligence in the
Universe is beating your heart right now! and breath­
ing your lungs!
Notice! that same Power of Life is Infinite in Its
Power and Activity. It is you who are limiting It by
your attention upon the world of appearances which
are limitations. Do you not see that everything in the
outer world of mankind is a human creation or limi­
tation?
Take the most perfect things for use, that you have
in the outer world today. Let us step-up as it were, to
the more advanced activity of things. Take your
aerial navigation. Your planes are wonderful today
are they not? They are real, but they are only a small
portion of the Perfection which will come forth in
your aerial navigation. We know that. Now you
might say to Me: “ Well show me” ! We will! but pos­
sibly not just yet.
However, all the Perfection mechanically that you
have today is only the beginning of what may come
forth; providing, you will give obedience as Saint
Germain has asked; for that is your Freedom, the only
means by which it can come. If you cannot and will
not give obedience to the simple things He asks, how
can you expect to have the great Perfection which He
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 361
has pictured to you? You will find that He makes no
mistakes! in spite of the fact that there are a few who
think He does.
Oh, beloved ones, what do the Ascended Beings or
Cosmic Beings care about puny human opinions? It is
the people who have those opinions who should care
a great deal. They should care, dear ones, because
it is those vicious individuals who spread falsehoods;
and discourage mankind ofttimes, when they are on
the eve of great success. Vicious individuals go among
the students and mankind and some of the students
are not strong enough to stand against their vicious­
ness.
Dear people, as long as you admit silly vicious
gossip into your world, you will pay the penalty. The
Messengers have prompted the students everywhere.
All who do that are vicious claws of the sinister force,
holding you away from your Victory. If you want to
listen to that kind of thing, then you will remain right
where you are—in your chains.
There has been a lot of viciousness spread through
your city here. Oh, We know all about it! Those un­
fortunate individuals, God help them! They sound
their own death knell when they do it. Because they
have been going on for sometime, they become more
brazen and vicious. Well, We do not mind, but they
will!
I prompt you dear people of Long Beach and else-
362 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
where! until you will take your stand and throw out
of your home or your world, every individual who
tries to spread viciousness there, you will remain in
your limitations. This Work and the Work of these
beloved Messengers is the most beautiful thing ever
given to mankind; and the Messengers pour forth
Love as few human beings can do. If those vicious
individuals would turn that same energy to a con­
structive purpose, they would have made their As­
cension already; because they release dynamic feeling
in anger and viciousness.
In every instance of that kind where individuals
have become so vicious, it was because they could
not drive in and become one of the Staff of the Mes­
sengers. That is the only reason their viciousness
started to build. So watch out, dear people, it is your
problem! It cannot touch the Messengers or the
Work! but it can disturb you, if you let it.
The Messengers have given you only Love and
Truth and Light and Freedom. Every human being,
it does not make any difference who they are, who
sends out viciousness and falsehood will find it re­
turning to them. It cannot go elsewhere. That is the
thing which so far, many of mankind are refusing to
see. They think they can go on putting out any kind of
feeling and not reap the results. Do not fool your­
selves, dear people! The first fundamental Law of
Life, mankind ignores completely. You cannot get
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 363
away from reaping exactly what you send out! No
human being can avoid it. It is the Law of Life! There
are some who think they can, but they are kidding
themselves.
One day, when We come and stand before you in
the Visible, Tangible Body; and you have come to a
point where We can release certain forces; We will
present to you the record of those Great Truths and
why they are so. Then, you will know how great has
been the Truth the Messengers have presented to you.
Remember now dear people! because there has
been so much viciousness spread in your city, I want
you to realize the importance of this! If you do not
protect yourselves, you will accept into your feeling
world this destructive thing; and there is no one to
blame but yourselves if you do. We want you to be
free! but if you listen to that kind of a condition, you
will have it in your world.
There are two points here I want to try and anchor
firmly in your feeling world tonight and they are:
you listen to conversation intellectually and you say:
“ Well, that may be true or not, I am not interested.”
That is often the feeling of the individual; but what
do you think your feeling world around you is doing
at the same time? That is what you are not aware of.
If you are not in harmony with a thing completely;
and if a certain verbal suggestion comes to you, some­
times silently, but more often verbally; it causes a
364 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
feeling to start within you of doubt or question. You
are not sure, but you say to the intellect: “ Oh no, I
will not accept that; but your feeling is accepting it!
Hours or days, after your intellect has said: “ Oh no I
won’t accept that,” something comes up in your Life’s
experience and you say: “ I wonder if that could have
been true”? There is where your feeling has accepted
it and started a momentum of destructive thought
and feeling. If it begins to revolve, it reaches the
thought and the thought takes it up. Then, you have
a conflagration on in your feeling.
I tell you these individuals, who have spread such
vicious falsehoods concerning the Messengers and
the Work, are filling their lives with tragedy, dear
people. Make no mistake about it! Oh the Messengers
or We are not concerned; but We are concerned
about you, who sometimes unknowingly accept those
things in your feeling world. It is you whom We are
talking about! We do not care anything about the
vicious individuals. They will destroy themselves soon
enough; but it is to protect you precious people, who
unknowingly accept these things in your feeling,
which start disturbance. Then, the first thing you
know, something happens in your world! a loss of
finances! loss of health or something like that! and
you wonder what in the world could have caused it.
It is because you have accepted this vicious gossip
into your feeling either knowingly or unknowingly.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 365
Dear ones, do you not see? I am not condemning
these vicious individuals, I am not even concerned
about them; but it is the honest, sincere student with
which I am concerned. I want them to be strong and
firm enough to repel all that kind of thing; and keep
it out of their feeling world forever. It is true, if you
understand the Law sufficiently, you can hear a thing
without accepting it; you can look upon a thing with­
out accepting it; but the average individual does not.
With the average individual, the moment you hear
something tragic or destructive outside, you accept
it into your feeling like that (motion of hand) because
you are not on sufficient guard.
The Messenger today can look upon anything out
there and stop it instantly from entering into his
world. He is not an Ascended Being; therefore, if he
can do it, so can you. That is why tonight, I am
prompting you on these things which will mean your
absolute Victory and Freedom, if you care to listen
to Me. That is why We want you to understand that
the Messengers or We are not the slightest concerned
what vicious individuals pour out; but you blessed
ones, unless you know how to guard yourselves, will
accept it into your feeling world; and you will find
some condition coming out of it that is disastrous
to you.
Dear people, let us look these things square in the
face. How do human limitations in the world come
366 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
about? By accepting into the feeling world a power
of human creation greater than the Presence of Light.
Every human being without exception knows that he
has within him the Presence of Life, do they not? But
how very few people previously have given any par­
ticular thought to it. They come into embodiment;
accept a few ideas, go on in the ordinary manner; and
after awhile, lose the body. Then, they get rested,
come back and try it again. Isn’t that a ridiculous
thing? Isn’t it?
Now that you have the opportunity of setting your­
selves free from these conditions forever, is it not
worth any effort which you can make? Notice, dear
people, whether you believe it is really Me or the
Messenger himself who is talking to you, will depend
how much you are going to free yourself. The Mes­
senger is repeating My Words and I am standing right
here by the Messenger, flashing these Words before
him. You probably do not see Me; but I could make
Myself very tangible without being visible.
I want to say to you beloved students, if you are
going to be free, you must dissolve the feeling within
you that an Ascended Being is not tangible, just be­
cause He or She is not visible to the physical sight.
We are just as tangible as you are, and if I chose I
could stand forth in a minute here, in just as tangible
a form as the Messenger is. Of course there are those
who will say: “ Well, why don’t you do it” ? I am sorry
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 367
that you do not trust Our Wisdom, when it is the
right time to do it.
Our Life, Our Law is Obedience to this very Law of
Life which is beating your hearts. We know It. We are
willing to give Complete Obedience. Are you? That
is the point! When you are as willing to give as exact
obedience as We are, then you will be where We are.
Do you not see that, precious ones?
You know recently the Messenger had a letter from
London, saying that the language in the Magazine
was very unbecoming, it said: “ dear hearts” and
“ precious ones” four or five times on each page. They
thought that was out of place. We should worry about
that individual’s opinion! but I am speaking of these
things to prompt you precious hearts, not to be caught
in the snare of human intellectual conceit. That in­
dividual was so conceited he just deprived himself
of the great blessing which was there. You will notice
the Messengers do not care a thing about human
opinions. Some of the great intellects tore them to
shreds when the books first went out, picking flaws
here and there. Well, the only flaws were those who
did the criticizing. They should pick out their own
flaws and get rid of them. Precious hearts, mankind
must come to Our Point of Obedience, if they are
going to be free.
I sometimes stand amazed; for in the beginning
mankind was given the prompting, when Victory, as
368 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
you have come to know Him now—the Tall Master
from Venus—issued the Edict for the earth from the
Great Royal Teton: that this Work should go forth
in simple language which the layman could under­
stand or even a small child. He said, It should be
simple and understandable, but powerful and ma­
jestic in Its Activity and Results. If individuals want
to allow the conceit of the intellect to turn them
aside, from the Blessings of this Work which Saint
Germain has brought forth; then it is quite all right;
but thanks to the Infinite Light those individuals are
but few. It is marvelous!
Beloved ones, think of this Work today in America!
Five years ago, scarcely anybody knew that such a
thing as an Ascended Master existed. The Western
world scarcely knew or ever heard of such a thing.
Yet, today, out of the nearly four hundred thousand
students, three hundred and twenty-five thousand are
accepting this Mighty Truth. They are feeling It
deeply within their beings. It is their Freedom!
Why do you have advanced instructors in your
schools? You have the kindergarten, grade school,
high school and so on, up to your college and Univer­
sities. The instructors in the universities and colleges
are supposed to be much more advanced than the
kindergarten. Well, the same Law applies throughout
the Universe. We, having passed through the experi­
ences which you are in today, know how to convey to
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 369
you the application; and give you the Assistance
which will bring you to Us in Eternal Freedom; but
if you will not let Us help you, how can We? This is
what I want you to feel tonight.
In your application, beloved ones, if at any point
you need Assistance, then that Assistance must come
to you from Us; because it is the Law of your Life.
Do you think the Law of your Life, which is beating
your heart, seeing your earnest determined desire to
be free, will not call to Its Assistance anything re­
quired, to give you the help which would be your
Victory?
It is Life, your Life, precious ones, which is calling
for Its Freedom. It is not a matter of your human
opinion at all! Of course your human opinion can
interfere with it temporarily; but it is your Life which
is calling for Its Freedom. That is why your heart
knows the Truth which your intellect will not always
accept. That has been the magnificent thing in this
Work which Saint Germain has brought forth in this
magnificent Instruction. It is simple, but All-
powerful to set you free! It does mean—Oh you can’t
get away from it, dear hearts—that you must make
your earnest determined application and keep it up;
until your momentum becomes strong enough to
sweep everything out of your world, consuming all
disturbance or limitations.
Look upon your world today! Of all that is here, is
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
37°
there anyone—now notice this closely—is there one
thing of your outer world today which has not some
kind of limitation? Can you show Me one thing in
your outer world of the human octave which does not
in some manner have limitations? I think not. Then,
that limitation of the appearance world is still human
creation; even with as much of the beauty and Per­
fection as you have. Why do I say: “ human creation”?
Because there is still limitation in it.
For instance, take the most beautiful roses you have
in the world today. They look as though they were
almost as perfect as they could be; but I say to you
they are hardly a comparison with the Perfection
which can be and will be yet manifested in your midst.
I say this to you just as one illustration—I cannot take
time to give you more. If you were to take a rose-bush
in your lawn or garden and you would go to that rose­
bush every morning and say: “ ‘Mighty I AM Pres­
ence’! charge your Perfection into that rose-bush and
bring forth the most perfect roses” ! you would see
come forth such Perfection as the human does not
believe possible. You can do that! You can take an
orange tree, stand and charge it with the Perfection
of the Presence; and leave the rest alone and see the
difference.
This means, dear people, any of you can prove this
Law true to your entire satisfaction, if you will; but
if you do not apply it how can you be satisfied? We
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 371
see the great, great earnest, sincere, intense applica­
tion many are making, the majority; but never tire.
Never become impatient; never cease application,
until you have swept out of your world every disturb­
ing limiting thing. It must come, because it is the
Law of your Life. It is compelled to answer.
Beloved ones, let Me remind you again tonight,
that when you call forth this Great Power of your
Presence, Its Mighty Intelligent Energy goes into
action and it is Self-luminous Intelligent Substance!
It knows no opposition nor interference! That Light
does not fear the darkness! The Light knows no op­
position from any kind of human creation! There­
fore, when you call the Power of your Presence, which
is Self-luminous Intelligent Substance; to sweep in
and through your body and sweep out all imperfec­
tion; Its Light just floods into, through and around
you; and sweeps out all disturbance, providing you
are not still determined that there is some left.
Many times, We have seen the beloved students
make earnest sincere call and every bit of disturbance
be swept out. Ten minutes later in their feelings, they
would begin to wonder and let the whole condition
return. Train yourself, when you make your applica­
tion to be firm as the Rock of Gibraltar, that the thing
desired is accomplished. Then stand by it! no matter
how the appearances scream at you afterwards; and
you will have your Victory very quickly.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
372
The Messengers today, blessed people, when they
make application stand by it, no matter what the
thing says outside. They always win, because their
stand and determination allows the Light and Power
to continue to flow, until the appearance disappears.
This is what it means to stand firm and unyielding in
your application.
I thank you, beloved ones. This is the first privilege
I have had of talking to you. Yet, I with many others,
always stand ready to give every Assistance possible
for your Freedom, Perfection and Dominion. Oh, do
not yield any longer, beloved ones, to the appearance
world. It has no power! Once you will turn upon it
and tell it so and mean it, it will cease to have power
in your world. Then, as you call the magnificent
Power of your Presence forth to take command and
hold Its Dominion in your world, so shall it be done!
The time is not so far distant, when blessed ones
like this (pointing to one brought in on a cot) will
hear the words—“ Arise and walk” ! and they will obey;
because the Light which beats this heart is Authority,
the Dominion, the Action, the Power which can make
that body walk in Its Freedom and Perfection.
Oh, beloved ones, your Life! the magnificence of
It; the All-powerful action of It is ever at your com­
mand. Remember, you are no longer subject to the
limitation of all human creation, nor your own. You
can call on the Law of Forgiveness for all mistakes of
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 373
your own creation; turn to your Presence and face
about; and wipe all human creation out of your world
so quickly.
It is marvelous, beloved ones, when you have come
to know of your Great Presence. One day, in one
sweeping Decree, you can set yourself free from any
discordant condition that has ever existed. There is
not a thing great or small to your Presence. The Light
just dissolves all unlike Itself and takes Its Dominion
forever.
Tonight, I call the fulness of the Infinite Power of
your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” to take Its Dominion
in your mind, body and world, produce Its Perfection
and set you free in the Victory of the Light. I thank
you.
S E R A P I S B E Y ’ S D I S C O U R S E
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA
JANUARY 23, 1938
B
ELO VED students of San Francisco, America,
and the world, I greet you for the first time in
the outer world; and bring to you the greetings
and blessings of the Brotherhood of Luxor. For the
first time in many centuries, this greeting comes to the
outside world.
The Order of which “ I AM ” the Head has long
been one of the Guards of humanity; and as our be­
loved Lotus has told you, Our Order is perhaps the
most inflexible; because It demands absolute obedi­
ence from those who have come to Us. Since, I come
to you in the outer world, do you suppose I can de­
mand that obedience? What do you think about it?
I wonder how many of you are willing to give the full
obedience required, to bring your complete freedom
quickly.
As I look into your faces, and you will pardon Me
if I look into your hearts, wonderful things are there
in those precious hearts. I say that to both the ladies
and gentlemen. I marvel at the feelings of mankind,
which deprive them of the joy of saying in purity of
thought and feeling to each other: ‘‘I love you.”
374
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 375
I love every sincere effort you make toward your
Freedom and Perfection, which would be the pouring
out of purity and Divine Love to each other. Know
you not, precious ones of the Light, that without the
conscious calling forth from this Presence and the
releasing of Its Power of Divine Love, you do not
have true happiness? Your call to the Presence is the
release of Love, Wisdom and Power in action—bal­
anced. You will never know until you begin to feel
the full release of the Power from your “ I AM Pres­
ence” what true happiness means.
If you had all the outer world holds for you, insofar
as things, conditions and all that is for use in the
physical octave is concerned, do you think you would
have happiness? I assure you, you have only a small
part; but when you begin to feel the release of the
Infinite Power of your Presence, at your call—know­
ing that you are responsible for the release, because
you have made the call; then you will begin to feel
your freedom, your importance to the Light. Not the
importance to strut the vanity of the human before
mankind; but the importance of your precious selves,
your hearts, to the Light, to bring It forth here in the
human octave where It is needed. That is what you
are doing today.
As We have watched the different groups of stu­
dents, in various parts of America and sometimes
in other parts of the world, surmount the projection
376 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
of the sinister force into their midst; it has become a
very gratifying, wonderful thing. It shows Us this:
that at last, after all the centuries of work and effort—
Oh, I should not call it work, for it really is not; but of
all the centuries of honest sincere effort upon Our
part, to awaken mankind to what they really were, at
last they are responding. Let Me assure you, you can
all take off your hats to Saint Germain, for having the
courage to bring forth this Understanding today.
Without It, mankind would be helpless. I tell you
without the knowledge of your own God Presence,
the “ Mighty I AM ,” which gives It an opportunity to
expand Itself through your heart and pour Its Radi­
ance forth, there would not be the slightest hope
for mankind.
All that is planned in Europe to sweep over your
beloved land would find an easy pathway to do it;
but that sinister force has come to discover that within
America there are those great souls who belong to Us;
who belong to the Light; and who are awakening to
the Power of the Light within them, to the degree
that they are making these Decrees. They are making
the call which will one day completely annihilate
every particle of humanly created destructive force.
Remember, all that is destructive, is but force in ac­
tion. It is not intelligent, because it has no sustaining
power of its own. It is force released, beloved people!
That is why danger threatens you today; because it is
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 377
wholly destructive force which is being released. It is
sweeping Europe with devastation. We who love you
are trying to prevent that same activity in your be­
loved America; which has sought and fought only for
its Freedom.
Do you wonder why it is possible for this to be done
for America, instead of any other part of the world
today? Because it is the only spot on earth where the
great mass of people have sought Divine Justice, Free­
dom and Liberty. Just because there have been pro­
jected into your government or into your world of
activity those individuals who are claws of the sinister
force, does not warrant you in believing that you
have not the protection of the Infinite Power of Light;
because the mass of your people in America want the
Freedom and the Light. It is only because agitators
momentarily disturb the people by some false belief,
that you have any marked distress in your country
today. They agitate the people into believing that
they can right conditions by human force, which has
failed for thousands of centuries!
Today, the opportunity is before humanity to call
the Power into action which is Infinite Intelligence;
which does solve all problems through the Power of
Divine Love and Divine Justice which is permanent.
No accomplishment, by force can ever be a permanent
thing! Today, it is your opportunity and you have the
ability to call forth this Infinite Power of Light; to
378 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
take command of America and her people; to give
her protection; to give her people Protection, Liberty
and Freedom. Then, there will come Permanent
Freedom and the release of all that everyone requires
for use in the human octave; and in perfect balance
to all.
This is what mankind has sought for thousands and
thousands of years. They have sought something
which would give the balance of all activities and
qualities in mankind; but no one can have it sus­
tained without the knowledge of this Presence, your
“ Mighty I AM .” There is no means of having it with­
out that. You former students do not yet fully realize,
that in your acceptance of your Presence and harmony
in your feelings, you could quickly sweep out of your
world every limiting discordant thing, with a speed
that would be amazing. Why have you not done it?
Because you are allowing your attention to be con­
stantly drawn out on to the world of human experi­
ence. In spite of yourself, your attention goes here
and there on human creation. As long as it rests there,
you are not having the Perfection of the Presence
which is the intent of this Instruction. Hold your at­
tention there firm enough until the human appear­
ance, which swings like a pendulum at the time, can­
not draw your attention.
If I were to hang a pendulum in this room and start
it in motion, how many of you would not look at it?
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 379
I venture there are not half a dozen in the room who
would not turn involuntarily and look at that swing­
ing pendulum. That is the reason, beloved ones, why
you must be firm enough to compel your attention to
stay where you put it.
I wonder if I dare say this! There are a few in this
room who were once under My Instruction and you
thought I was fierce. You thought My Inflexibility
for obedience to the Law was terrific. Well, maybe it
was from the human standpoint; but remember! in
Our Search for the Light, We do not consider the
human viewpoint. If We did, We would not get far,
would We?
Therefore, beloved ones, as the Great Law has seen
fit to send Me forth into your midst; I trust you will
think better of Me than you did before. I am not so
fierce as you might think; but dear ones, if you knew,
if you saw, what My Inflexibility has meant to those
who came to Us through the centuries, then I think
you would love Me too. You know there are certain
natures, that unless you are inflexible, they will not
even listen to you. Take yourselves, for instance. If I
were to walk up to you and say: “ Now here, you look
at Me, you give obedience now or you are going to
get what is coming to you.” How many of you would
like Me for it? Would you not think I were over­
stepping the bounds a little? But do you know what
that very statement might mean to you, if you could
380 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
accept it in the spirit of Love and kindness in which
it was given?
My dear ones, you are learning obedience, true
enough; but you still need to give more obedience.
Where? T o This Light which beats your heart; which
is your Life; and which is the Law of Life acting in
your mind, body and your world. That is where obedi­
ence becomes the mightiest thing in human experi­
ence; because without obedience to the Law of Life,
you are constantly interruping Its flow by your power
of qualification; by the misuse of your physical sight,
your vision; and by the inability—notice! by the in­
ability to control your attention.
You will have noticed for some months past in the
Assistance We have been giving, that the Dictations
which have come forth before the classes are to pre­
pare you for the greatest possible receptivity in this
classs; where the combined Forces of the Ascended
Masters and Cosmic Beings pour forth Their Radi­
ance to bless you.
As experience has taught you more and more the
imperative need of obedience to your Law of Life; I
trust from what I observed tonight, that in this class,
We are going to gain its fulness. Then you become so
anchored that no person, place nor condition can in­
terrupt your attention nor the flow of this Mighty
Energy into you and your world; to produce Its Per­
fection, to harmonize and to do the things in the
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 381
outer world which you need to have done for your
happiness, supply and Perfection.
Shall I say something startling to you? You know
individuals among mankind are so frightfully dis­
turbed about their money supply. Do you know, it
is the easiest thing in the world? Do you know the
natural flow of your Life Stream—uninterrupted—
would actually produce the money supply in your
hands every day which you need for use? It actually
would do it! Then, why has it not done it? Because
of your constant interruption of this Life Stream by
discord in your feelings. That is why! I say the supply
of the money you require for use is and should be
the easiest part of your achievement; but if your
pocket-book begins to get a little flat and there is not
so very much change in your pocket, Oh, what a
trembling fear comes over you. Those bills on the
table at home, staring you in the face, are saying:
“ How are you going to take care of me”? Then, you
succumb to the suggestion, when if you would rise
up in the Power of your Presence and say: “ Don’t you
talk back to me! ‘Mighty I AM Presence’ take charge
of those bills! See that they are paid through the
Power of Divine Love and keep my human agitation
off them.” How quickly they would be paid. Do you
not see, blessed ones, the only reason problems exist
or bills accumulate, is because of your disturbance
and agitation? Such feeling does not allow enough of
382 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
the Power of the Presence to get through undisturbed
and uninterrupted; to produce the conditions which
bring it about quickly. That is the only reason you
do not have it. You think persons, places and condi­
tions are to blame. Oh loved ones, erase that from
your minds please! if you want to be free.
Not all the human beings in creation can inter­
fere with one of you in the money supply and every­
thing else you require, when you stand one with your
Presence and keep your attention there. Refuse to
accept that the appearances of the world which
breathe of discord and human limitations have any
power.
Oh, the Messengers have pled with mankind to
refuse acceptance of the appearance world. Yet they
have not seemed able to do it. Beloved ones, will you
try this? We must help you gain the Victory. Now, let
us just—pardon Me if I use your expression—pep up
and do it. Oh do not wobble around any longer. Come
into the Law of Life and let It take Its Dominion and
stop the human wobbling! Precious ones, with this
God Power and Presence, the Intelligence and Power
of the Universe beating your hearts, moving your
bodies about; then there is nothing of human crea­
tion which can interfere with the Out-pouring of the
Presence to produce it in your world. It is impossible
for you to fail.
Take that stand and say to all human appearance:
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 383
“ No longer dare you attempt to hold me in your
bondage! With my God Presence, I shatter and blast
to pieces everything that has been accumulated about
me! I walk forth this hour free from all human limi­
tations’’! We must shatter this power of human cre­
ation which has held its bondage upon mankind.
If you will join Me tonight, while you are sitting
here listening; if you will join Me in your feelings
and let this Power be released in your mind, body and
world of activity; then this night it shall be shattered!
You shall walk forth in the morning free—forever!
There is no power anywhere in the Universe that
can interfere with your own Stream of Life, flowing
into your mind and body and then out into your
world, if your attention is undivided. Do whatever is
required in the outer world and the moment that is
finished, turn your attention back to the Presence, if
it is only for one minute. In that minute, make your
call: “ Mighty I AM Presence! take Dominion in this
body and my world! produce your Perfection and
hold your Dominion.” When you call It forth like
that, you will have It, dear people. You cannot have
your Victory if you just wish for a thing, when you
need to demand its release. You must mean business
in your call to the Presence. You must be firm, un­
yielding and determined; then the full and complete
release will come quickly.
I plead with you, do not longer yield to the appear-
384 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
ance world which has frightened you so long. As long
as you give it power—energy—which is your Life, then
it will come back and say: “ I am still your master. ’
Yet, here above you is the Great Master of all Life,
who offers you all there is in the Universe as a free
gift of Love, just through the acceptance. Will you
not see how easy it is. It only requires firm determina­
tion at first to bring this release. Let us draw just a
little illustration here. Suppose, after you return
home tonight, you immediately say: “ That all sounds
very good, but here are these things.” Then, “ these
things” will have you by the throat.
I wonder, if you will make just a little extra effort
tonight, when you go home. If you see something
there that is not desirable, instead of succumbing to
its appearance, say to that thing: “ You are finished!
You scared me once, but you will never do it again” !
whether it is bills or something else. Do you know
what you would do? The minute you will stand up
before everything which confronts your world and
show it you are not afraid of it; it will just crumple
up and crawl at your feet and say: “ Thank you, I
have found my master.” That is what those appear­
ances will do.
Every appearance in this world is a coward! Every
agitator in this world is a coward at heart and a fiend!
Believe it or not! When humanity rises up and says:
“ There shall not be another agitator in our America” !
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 385
and every one that pops his head up, pop it down,
you will be free from that thing.
The idea of hundreds of thousands of people suc­
cumbing to an insane agitator! Dear people, in the
Name of God! call forth your Power from the Pres­
ence to silence those things forever! Many are in­
nocent. They do not know they are being made claws
of the sinister force which is wholly destructive. Even
though they do not know the difference, they are
producing the same results, as if they were not in­
nocent.
Therefore, dear people, the time has come when
your call to the Presence must be strong enough to
silence these things in your midst! Dear ones, you
have before you the evidence! Think of the condition
of your city when the Messengers came here the last
time! These great hotels had been closed for months.
Before the class was over, they opened! because of the
call for the Power of Light to shatter that condition
from your city, it was done! Is there an agitator or
anybody else can say it was not done? I want you to
see the Light, the authority, which is within your
own precious Life. It is the Master of every condition
that ever confronts you!
It does not matter what is going on around you.
One with this “ Mighty I AM Presence” is a majority!
and is not the Light more powerful than the darkness?
Before you turned these lights on in the room it was
386 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
quite dark, was it not? You sometimes call it pitch
dark. Well, when you turned the light on was there
any battle? The darkness just disappeared, did it not?
It is exactly the same Law acting, when you call this
Power of Light.
Let us first take you individually. When you call
this Power of Light into action to flood your being
and world, exactly the same thing takes place as took
place in this room, when you turned on these lights.
Now the darkness of your own human creation is
not a particle more powerful than the darkness in
this room, before you turned on the lights. If you
came in with a candle, you would not see so clearly,
would you? But when you come in with these great
lights turned on, the darkness has disappeared.
Just for a moment, think of the greatest light you
have in the outer world today, the most powerful
one! Compare that with the Power of your Presence
which is the Light of the world. Then, has your
human creation any power, the darkness of it, against
this Light which you can call forth to flood your
being and world, which dissolves all darkness and
lets the Power of the Light take Its Dominion?
Now, I am going to say something else, quite shock­
ing to you. There are seventy-five percent of the
students in San Francisco, Oakland and vicinity who
have time and again in their intense call had their
freedom! but they did not have the patience to wait
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 387
a few days for it to manifest. Will you believe that I
am telling you the Truth? This is an actual fact, the
actual Truth. You have at times made such de­
termined, sincere call that the freedom was released;
but because it was not a miracle or instantaneous
manifestation, you allowed the attention to go back
into the limitations.
I am saying this tonight for a very great purpose;
because if I am to help you, I am going to do some­
thing worth while, or I will not do it. If I am going
to help in this business, you are not going to wobble
around any more. You are not going to go back into
the acceptance of those limitations, when We have
called forth your Freedom. Remember that, the next
time you wobble! Remember! I am right there. If
you get a good prodding up, do not blame Me; be­
cause you will receive a good sound reminder that
you are slipping!
Dear ones, I do not wish to make you over-conscious
because of the need; but you are at a point when you
can have your Freedom so quickly. I want you to have
It! All the Ascended Masters, Saint Germain in­
cluded, want you to have It. “ I AM ” a New Element,
so to speak, to have come into the scenery; and if
We do not get some results, ‘‘I AM ” going to know
why. Now I mean business. You blessed ones are not
going to yield and begin to wobble around in these
outer things after tonight. Do not do it! You are going
388 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
to brace up and take your Dominion in the Power of
your Presence and say to everything undesirable in
your way: “ You are finished, right now! Get out”!
Do not say that to your husbands and wives, but I am
speaking about conditions.
Dear ones, We do not become too serious you
know, and yet, We must be firm. You would hardly
believe that with all My firmness, the greatest imagi­
nable happiness is within My Being; but in My At­
tainment, beloved ones, the Ascended Ones will quite
agree, that few ever went through such fierceness as I
did. My human was the most stubborn thing ever en­
countered. I hope you do not encounter that which I
did. I know what it means, when the human is so de­
termined within the individual to have its own way;
and I tell you, dear people, do not yield to it for a
single instant. The more determined the human is,
the more firm you must become in calling the Powers
of the Presence into action to dissolve it.
We, for many centuries, have called to Us from all
parts of the world those whom We felt were ready
for their Freedom in the Light; but remember, even
the Ascended Master, until the individual has reached
a certain point in the expansion of his Light, cannot
tell what the human is going to do. Now this is the
point I am coming to: in those who were called to Us
from all parts of the world, for a time their enthusi­
asm-notice this point carefully—their enthusiasm
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 389
would be wonderful. Their determination something
wonderful; but after a few weeks, the human within
them began to rebel good and strong at the obedience.
Then, you would see their enthusiasm go down, and
down, and down, and down. Instead of a glowing
smile, there would come that bedraggled look. Some­
times, when I saw a little encouragement was permis­
sible, I would tap them on the shoulder and say: “ Oh
it is not so serious as it seems. Brace up! Come back
into that old enthusiasm. Where do you suppose it
went to? Be careful you don’t lose it! It is still within
reach, hang on to it.” Sometimes they would take hold
immediately and come back. Those would always win
the Victory; but when I tapped them on the back
to give them the encouragement and that smile failed
to appear; I knew the condition was dangerous. Some­
times those would come back and sometimes they did
not: and of all things! those students would swear to
you that I did not care whether they succeeded or
failed—because in My Capacity I did not show to them
My Feeling.
The most difficult thing in Our entire experience is
to see the marks there for those who failed. Perhaps
only temporarily, but nevertheless they had to try
again. You think you meet difficulties; but precious
ones, not until the day you too stand in that same
position, will you realize what it means to Us. The
conditions of the outer world and the things you meet
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
39°
today are really nothing at all in comparison to that
one condition. T o see a beloved, blessed one with not
enough strength or Light within him to win the
victory is sorrow indeed. If there be sorrow in a per­
fected state, then that would be one place it would
manifest.
Beloved ones, instead of a few individuals whom
We drew to Us from all parts of the world; today your
Beloved Saint Germain has gathered about Him thou­
sands and thousands of people, giving forth this same
identical Law which We gave forth after a four year
probation. This was never known in the outer world.
Even with those who failed and returned to the
outer world, their sense of honor never allowed them
to mention the Laws which had been taught. That
is one thing wherein the Great Law of Life acts; and
We, who represent It, are eternally and everlastingly
grateful; because in the training during their stay
with Us, a certain honor was established which never
left them.
Beloved ones, what a magnificent opportunity you
have! Can you, will you, fully appreciate it? In the
comfort of a beautiful room like this; in the lovely
homes and the magnificent places which the Mes­
sengers have for your comfort; you are receiving the
Great Law which people sought for over the entire
earth; and were eternally grateful for having found It.
Do you realize, precious ones, do you appreciate
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 391
what is before you? I am sure you do, and you will
daily appreciate it more and more. If you listen to
human beings who breathe the poison of discord,
doubt and fear into your world, then you are re­
sponsible. Do you not see that? Do you not see why
you must be the decreer and governor of your world?
You can shut out whatever you do not want. You do
not have to listen to false gossip and all that kind of
thing which breathes poison into your world. The
pitiful thing is the condition of those who breathe
such things forth into the world of others. It may
disturb them temporarily, but the persons who
breathe it forth, will cry out in agony for the false­
hoods they have uttered. It does not make any dif­
ference what or who it is—it is the Law of Life.
I marvel at those who have thought I was severe.
The Law of Life is more so, because It never prompts
you. It just waits and if you want to misuse Its
Energy, It says: “just run along you will get tired of
it’’; but We who know these conditions prompt, and
prompt, and prompt mankind. Sometimes, they do
not believe Us and they go on; but those who do
accept Our Help and with great loving feeling, de­
termine to give obedience; then how quickly joy and
Perfection begin to fill their worlds.
I want to say just one more word about your
finances. Dear ones, the Messengers should be a
mighty example to you. They have never asked for a
392 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
dime in their lives. Then, how is it that the release
of what is required for the work comes forth? Be­
cause they do not put their attention upon the beloved
students. Whenever there is a need, they go to their
Presence instantly and say: “ ‘Mighty I AM Presence’
so much is needed here. See that it is supplied through
the Power of Divine Love.” Then, the conditions in
the outer world come about so it is done.
If you beloved ones will go to your Presence first—
for your money supply in any financial need, do you
not see how the Wisdom and Power of the Presence
called forth into action, will produce the conditions
which bring the release of the money you desire to
use? Do you see that it cannot fail? Then, the Greatest
Wisdom, the Greatest Power, the Greatest Activity
in the Universe is set into action to produce whatever
money you require. Oh it has been a long time since
I needed money, but I still have not forgotten how to
produce it.
I want to tell you beloved ones, once you have
learned the application of this Law, as if your very
Life depended on It the next moment; you will al­
ways know that in the future, It produces any result
you call forth.
It is the same way with health in your body. Now,
do not feel I am being severe, but think! We shall
take it generally at first. To think that any “ I AM”
Student, I mean the Real Ones, who have come to
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 393
know their own “ I AM Presence,” will longer yield
to the power of discord to make them ill or feel pain
in their bodies, is just too much for Me. It is true,
beloved ones. You possibly do not quite know it yet;
but in your “ I AM Presence” you have absolute
dominion over those bodies.
Please accept it tonight and let Me help you to feel
it so definitely, that the next time something tries to
assert itself, you will say: “ Oh no you don’t! Once
you were master. Now ‘I A M ’ ” ! Notice—“ Once you
were master, but now “ ‘I A M ’ Master.” What do
you think that does? You are acknowledging instantly
that the fullest Power of your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” has Dominion and is the health in your body.
Show Me any human thing that can stand against It!
It does not make any difference whether it be the
human qualification of cancer, tumor or anything
else. What do you suppose any accumulation in the
flesh structure of your body can do against the Power
of that Light which CAN dissolve it like lightning?
Only because the human hugs it and says: “ I am
afraid I am going to let go of it.” Do you know I am
quite serious in that! Do you know that is what your
feelings actually do? You want to get rid of a disturb­
ing condition; but when you call forth the full Power
of the Presence and It begins to hurt a little more you
say: “ Oh dear” !
Pardon Me, if I remind you of these illustrations
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
394
which We have seen manifest through humanity for
hundreds of years. Today, I feel you are at a point
where I can talk heart to heart with you; and cause
you to see what your feelings are doing to you, when
they are ungoverned. I want you to see what your
feelings are doing. How magnificent it is when many
blessed ones have grasped this point; and with great
determination right at first refused to yield any longer
to the old human feeling of holding it to you.
Look at your faces today. Even in six months you
are new Beings! The Light coming through your
faces is twice or three times what it was six months
ago. Then, it should be greatly encouraging to you,
to know that your application is not failing in any
manner whatever.
That is why I say tonight, let Me help you. Let me
so charge into your feeling world, this night, such a
Power and Feeling of your own Dominion; that never
once again will there be any appearance in the outer
world which holds your attention upon discord for
a moment. The moment you find it has rested on
discord, take it off instantly; and put it back upon the
Presence, Whose Power goes forth, dissolves and con­
sumes any undesirable thing that stands before you
in your pathway. It will do it!
Oh let us not yield any longer to discordant things
of any kind! Remember that within all Life, every­
thing is loving, kindly co-operation. In all Life, in all
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 395
Nature, does the apple tree interfere with the oak?
Does the cherry tree interfere with the peach? Is there
not a magnificent Law of selection? Does the tomato
interfere with the potato? Does the radish interfere
with the carrot? Then, the Selective Law, now mark
you this is tremendous, if you get the point! the
Selective Intelligence which is acting throughout
Nature, is what is ordinarily termed a mass conscious­
ness. While it is directed largely by the Maha Chohan,
yet it acts with definite precision. Why? Because the
carrot does not interfere with the radish. It does not
try to. You know you are far more important than
the radish, and the carrot.
Notice, we are getting down to brass tacks, as you
say. Now notice! These are powerful things, dear
ones, and once you get this in the feeling conscious­
ness, you will never let go of it in the world.
That which is acting as a mass throughout Nature,
is far less powerful than the Intelligence of your
Presence acting through you, is it not? Is there any
comparison? Then, why do you not have the same
result that the carrot and the radish do? Because you
are constantly interfering with each other. Do you not
see that? Your human desire to dictate to another
person and tell him what to do, when and how to do it,
is the thing that plays the havoc in the human world.
If you could be like the carrot and the radish not
wanting to interfere with each other, think! how
396 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
wonderful your Life would be—filled with beauty,
harmony and Perfection.
What do you think about the beets that are red? Do
you know they were white once? How did they get
the color? How did they? By the feeling of human
discord. Why is the blood in your body red? Because
of the impurity and imperfection that is there. As
soon as all imperfection can be dismissed, the blood
of your body will be a golden liquid. That is why, be­
loved ones, the color of red as known in the outer
world, because of the mass consciousness of it, pro­
duces irritation, inharmony, discord and limitations
to the individuals who use it or have it about them.
I ask you to watch these things, because in the
outer activity of the world which is coming you will
see these things disappear. The red beets will dis­
appear. The tomatoes will change their color. Now
why? Why is the tomato red? These are tremendous
things, dear ones. It might sound childish but let us
be children for a while. Everyone of you knows that
not so many years ago, the consciousness of mankind
said tomatoes were poisonous, did it not? People were
afraid to eat them. Then where is the reason for
their color? Qualification by the feeling of mankind!
Do you not see that, dear ones? Do you see how it acts
throughout Nature? Then, how much more power­
fully does it act upon you, the most sensative organism
in the Universe today?
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 397
Oh precious ones, sometimes you think you are
hard boiled and dense. Do you know that the brain
structure in your head, when untouched by the de­
structive substances of the outer world, such as to­
bacco, intoxicants and all such substances, is the most
wonderful thing in the whole Universe of human ac­
tivity. If left to its own Perfection, it would sense,
feel and respond to the most delicate vibrations. Just
so does your heart respond today. You cannot do to
your heart what you do to the brain, because the
Power of your Presence is anchored within your
heart.
Why do people sometimes say and feel, and even
the Xray shows that they have valvular trouble in
the heart? Purely by human suggestion. The heart
of itself can no more have valvular trouble or any
imperfection whatever, unless imposed upon it by
human suggestion, than you can change the Activity
of the Universe. Why? Because your physical heart is
the anchorage of the Power of God, the Infinite Power
of Light in your human body; for within it is a tiny
Unfed Flame from the Heart of your Electronic
Body. That is why your heart cannot be disturbed
except from suggestions imposed upon it.
In all respect to our beloved doctors of the world,
the medical doctors and otherwise, We have the
records gathered from mankind where thirty-seven
percent of the tumor and cancer cases among the peo-
398 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
pie come by the power of suggestion: for the feeling
of the individual begins to accept it. Suppose there is
an accumulation of gas in the cells of the abdominal
region which causes it to become swollen, either
within or without and the condition remains there.
The doctor or someone says: “ Well that enlargement
looks like a tumor.” If you knowingly or unknow­
ingly accept that into your feeling intensely enough,
it will produce that condition right then and there,
in that exact spot.
Why do you suppose so many people’s appendices
get out of order? Before mankind knew they had such
a thing it was all right. It is absolutely true, but when
the mass suggestion starts to sweep, then everybody
gets the flash.
I tell you, dear people, if you could for one hour
with Us see the effect of human suggestions upon
mankind, you would know why you need to call the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” to formulate that Tube of
Light about you and use the Violet Consuming Flame
within It; to keep you free from those things which
reach into your feeling world and anchor there with­
out your even knowing it. Oh, so many times, those
conditions anchor within the feeling world, begin to
act and build. Then, later the individual wonders
why that condition exists.
Without a doubt, you realize I do not cognize time
nor space. Oh beloved ones, I trust in My humble
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 399
Way, I have been of some Assistance to you tonight;
and remember what is going to happen to you the
next time you wobble.
Oh, let us be so joyous and so happy in the acknowl­
edgment of your “ I AM Presence.” Remember Our
Blessed Bob, His enthusiasm increases daily, until it
knows no bounds. He can pour forth a Radiance such
as no one I have ever seen. He is doing it to you
blessed ones every time he has an opportunity. Oh,
just accept that Great Joy of your ‘‘I AM Presence,”
filling your world and holding Its Dominion there.
It is so magnificent!
Pardon Me, if I have held you late tonight, but I
think it is worth it. Let Me Decree tonight your
Mighty Eternal Everlasting Dominion and Victory
in the Light! I thank you.
T H E G R E A T T E N O R ’ S D I S C O U R S E
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
JANUARY 2 , 1938
C
H ILD R EN of the One God, the “ Mighty I
AM ,” in the search for all that you require
in the outer world, what is your first require­
ment? Look at anything you will in Life, in your
experiences of Life, and then tell Me what the first re­
quirement is. Harmony, is it not? No particular
achievement can be attained without it.
Saint Germain has perceived that you are ready for
the Service which it is My Joy to render. Tonight, I
shall start an Activity in your feeling world which I am
sure will help you greatly, to hold Self-control and
harmony in your feelings—the imperative need of
today. Dear ones, even if it were not of consideration
in attaining the Goal of your Victory, still harmony
maintained in your feelings is the imperative need for
the protection of mankind today. As each one of Us
represent a Special Activity which mankind needs,
then as the time approaches, We are only too glad to
render Our Service to those who wish to have It. Of
course, you understand, We never intrude! Do not
be afraid that you are going to have some intrusion
into your world, which you might not want.
400
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 401
I wonder if there is anyone who does not want
harmony. Oh, beloved ones, realize what that means
to your health, to your victory wherever your atten­
tion rests; whether it be an outer achievement or your
goal in the Light. Without it you cannot go far.
I want to say to Mr. Sindelar tonight, he does not
realize in his recent ideal figure (the cover design of
the February 1938 Issue of the “Voice of the I AM ” )
how close he came to My Likeness. So after all, from
the Inner Impulses many times splendid things come
forth. How often when the outer is doing a thing, one
naturally appreciates it and all that; but if the indi­
vidual knew the Reality back of it, how much greater
would be the rejoicing. So it is with many today who
are having experiences for which they are grateful.
Yet did they understand the Intelligence and Power
back of those experiences, how much greater their
gratitude would be.
Dear ones, once you wish to know; now demand to
know and understand the Law of your own Life which
is operating all the time. You do not need to give any
special attention to the various phases of Its Activity.
It is just a general activity which you handle. You
think you are thankful for what you have learned;
but that is what you have ordinarily termed an in­
voluntary action. It is not involuntary however; for
in all outer manifestation there is really never one
involuntary action. All is directed by intelligence and
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
4 0 a
its activity through your body. The Light, Energy
and Intelligence of course is compelled to carry the
quality which you give It; because you are the au­
thority in your world, as to how this energy is going
to act for you.
The Great Goddess of Liberty drew your atten­
tion, this afternoon, to Happiness. I draw your at­
tention, tonight, to Harmony. So be very careful
when you get the next or third point of the triangle;
because that is going to mean your Victory complete.
When you are able to operate all three in unison, you
will find all Victories at hand!
While it is not My regular Activity, throughout the
thousands of centuries in which I have lived—Oh yes,
so have you—yet I have loved music. Knowing the
need of the day, I shall endeavor to bring forth cer­
tain things which will not only make you happy to
listen to them; but they will set into operation a
certain vibratory action throughout your body. I
have never seen one person in human embodiment
yet, who would listen to one piece clear through—
no
matter what the agitation was in the beginning; who
did not find Perfect Harmony in his body and feeling
world, when it was finished.
These are the things, dear ones, which as soon as
Wisdom directs will be brought forth for your bless­
ing.
That is why the Ascended Masters have said to you;
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 403
“ Do not be impatient.” Oh dear ones, you have only
been making your call a short time yet. Three years is
not very long. I marvel that human beings could be
impatient for some of these things, even if it were
twenty years. This good brother longed and pled and
prayed for more than twenty years for the things that
finally came. I would not say that he did not get im­
patient; but I will say that he never wavered. All he
needed to do each day was to gather more energy and
pour it out again; for that is what makes Victory!
Oh beloved ones, you cannot gain Victory in any
outer thing without firm determination to have it.
Then, after centuries of accumulation, is it not
reasonable to believe that today, you would need even
greater determination, in the attaining of the Victory
of your Life? Now mark you, I am talking about your
Life! In the attainment of the Victory of your own
Life today, Harmony is far more imperative than ever
before. Many have had difficulty in maintaining har­
mony and Self-control; because they allowed, un­
knowingly, to come into their feeling world, feelings
and suggestions which disturbed them.
Night before last, I talked with Saint Germain con­
cerning the nearness of the time in which certain
things could be brought forth; to give Assistance to
mankind outside of their own direct application. He
said, He thought it was not yet time; but according
to the intensity of the students’ desire it might come
404 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
quickly. Now Saint Germain is a musician as well as
Myself; but I feel the greatest achievement and means
for maintaining harmony within the feeling world of
individuals; and the greatest means of reaching the
greatest number of people, will come through music
of the right kind. I assure you that when mankind
begin to hear these musical productions and feel the
action within their own human forms; there will not
be one person on earth who will not have that music
and use it.
There are certain compositions—now you see how
practical I am—certain compositions which will heal
cancer within an hour. There are certain composi­
tions—now mark you! not only just one which will do
this; but certain compositions that will release con­
gestion within the lungs within the hour. They will
cause it to be thrown off, because the natural impulse
of your atomic structure is to repel everything of a
discordant quality. It is not always able to do it, be­
cause you keep crowding it, and crowding it, and
crowding it, with too much substance.
There are certain definite compositions which act
upon the various organs of the body—the kidneys, the
liver and the various organs; to harmonize them and
cause to be thrown off all the disturbing conditions.
Those blessed organs of the human body! what a
struggle they have, calling constantly: “ Don’t give me
any more to do right away” ! Yet, they find it coming
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 405
down just the same. Do you know the anxiety of the
people of earth today is the principal cause of all
stomach disturbance? Of course there are other causes
too. If you put too much firewater in it, it is sure to
cause disastrous results. You know I really think
your American Indians had a marvelous name for
that peculiar liquid. If it does not set human beings
on fire, then what could? The Violet Flame is not
in it, however.
I tell you, beloved ones, there is no Victory, as
long as intoxicating drinks hold their dominion in
your feeling world! I want every precious “ I AM ”
Student here tonight to know that definitely! Do not
feel that you can do those things in secret and not be
known. Think of it! the unfortunate activity of the
human mind, because it cannot have all it wants;
because it cannot do all it wants to do, says: ‘‘I will
drown myself in destructive fire.” That is just what
the sinister force of human creation wants you to do;
because then it has its dominion clear and simple
within you and can destroy you.
Let us look at all of these requirements. Laugh
them off, rather than be too serious. I know of pre­
cious ones who have wanted to stop smoking and
wanted to stop drink; wanted to stop the use of
tobacco of all kinds; and because they became too
serious, it still held the desire to them. Instead they
should just let go. Isn’t that a difficult thing some-
4°6 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
times to do, just let go? Yet, you will find you can do
it!
Is there anyone here, precious people, even of the
former students, who fully understands what his re­
sponsibility is? When you come into the environment
of other people with stimulants in your body—
in­
toxicants of any kind, whether it be wine, whisky,
alcohol, or the other thing that is worse—
gin; you are
pouring out that radiation. Now mark you! that sub­
stance goes forth from you, from your body all the
time; just like that (motion of hand). You do not see
it; but it is there going out all the time. When you
begin to feed that out into other people’s worlds;
then you are responsible for the desires which are set
up in the other individual’s feeling world. Do you
wonder yvhy the Messengers have pled with you and
pled with all the students throughout America; and
told them the danger of that point? You make your­
selves responsible for the condition which you pro­
duce in others.
Oh beloved ones, Life is so mathematically un­
erring and accurate. It is no respecter of persons,
places or conditions. It acts with dynamic Power and
It isn’t going to say to anyone of you: “ Now you have
been a nice little chap. Just run along and don’t
mind.” Oh no! or, “ You have been a nice little girl,
you can just have some more good times.” Not at all!
While It is not, yet if certain human beings under-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 407
stood the True Activity of Life, they would call It a
tyrant, because there is nothing gets away. It compels
the answer to every cause sent out centuries ago.
Sometimes, a cause would drive back into the periph­
ery of the feeling world of the individual; because it
did not find a responding activity from the central
activity for maybe another century, until it was again
drawn forth; but today, it is a vastly different thing.
Such discordant things are being compelled to dis­
solve and disappear from the earth.
Now everything is rushing forth with dynamic
energy for redemption—yours, and yours, and yours.
Oh, anyone’s! It does not make any difference whether
it is yours or someone’s else. It wants to get out, and
if you do not know what it is doing, it is going to get
out. Then you have a struggle on your hands to
handle it. This is why the great Call has gone forth
from the Messengers, for the people to use the Violet
Consuming Flame; and call the Presence to draw the
Tube of Light. Everyone who will not or does not
want to use the Violet Consuming Flame will meet
his own destructive creation and have to handle it.
It has either got to be consumed or rush forth into
action. There is no choice about it! If you do not
consume it, it will rush forward and act anyhow!
That is why it has been so imperative and the need
of using the Violet Consuming Flame is so great.
Many individuals, not knowing the importance of It.
408 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
will not use It enough; and suddenly things begin
to rush into their worlds which they do not like; but
it is no fault of the Law. It is not necessarily the fault
of the individuals even in this embodiment; but it is
the fault of their unwillingness to give the obedience
and make the necessary application. There is one
thing, since I have been called forth into this Activity
which I have observed so many times. Individuals
not feeling definitely the need of these things, go on,
and on, and on, trying to ignore the requirement; but
not one escapes, beloved ones. Will you believe Me
tonight, when I say to you, not one escapes!
The Great Ones have tried to convey without
making it too drastic, how imperative and how real
is this need. We could show you and tell you of con­
ditions in your city, which would fire you into action
as never in your Lives. It still seems unwise to do it;
because the danger of mankind today is that in know­
ing of a thing, they either willingly or unwillingly
begin to allow their feeling to dwell upon it, until
they make the thing real to themselves.
It is also why too much meditation makes you
negative, instead of doing the thing you want to do.
Be quick and dynamic in all your application, and I
am sure you will have greater results. I would not
call it exactly a fault, but mankind still think the
demands of the outer world just must be fulfilled
whether or no; when ten, fifteen or twenty minutes a
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 409
day of taking the attention off the outer things, would
give you sufficient time to hold the Dominion and
Mastery in your feeling world.
Will you allow Me to help you tonight, by these
explanations? Please! everyone of you, when you arise
in the morning, do not move from your room until
you call the Power of your “ Mighty I AM Presence”
into action; to charge your mind and body with Its
Intelligent Direction; with Its Enfolding Power of
Divine Love; with Its Limitless Energy—and bring
your hands down over your body and charge it! You
will get stronger results; because you feel you are
physically doing something. You do! You actually
reach into this Substance or Radiance of the Energy
and draw it down more firmly into the body. There
is no question about it. If you would only do these
things and not let one solitary thing disturb you
until you have done them—what marvelous results
you would have. It only takes a few minutes; but Oh
what that means to you through the day; and watch
your feelings!
Precious ones, the requirements are so simple. Yet,
I marvel at the pull of the attention, for it is so tre­
mendous. The pull of the attention to the outer
world must be stopped, so We must just keep on try­
ing.
It is a long time, since I have been in direct contact
with the people of earth. Yet, I could scarcely have
ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
410
believed ten years ago, that there was so much which
is magnificent within mankind on earth as there is
today. Everyone on earth should thank your Beloved
Saint Germain! When you are inclined to be im­
patient, think of Him! Even in His recent Activity of
two hundred years or more in His endeavor to serve
America, only now is He beginning to see definite
results. Then, you get impatient in a few hours.
What is impatience? I mean the quality that is
acting which produces impatience? Oh, do not throw
stones at Me when I say this. It is a lack of confidence!
It really is, if analyzed from the Inner standpoint; for
if you have sufficient confidence in your “ Mighty I
AM Presence,” you cannot be impatient; because you
know definitely that It is All-wise; and Its Wisdom
and Power is directing.
You see, as individuals on earth are so much in the
pull of the outer world, you do not settle down and
let yourselves get still enough to feel the Reality of
these things; or to feel the various activities which
many times are making people go astray in the feel­
ing.
Today, in all that is required, you are the most
fortunate of beings. Why do you wonder, when al­
most every one of Us tells you that? Not to pat you
on the back; but because it is a Great Law of Your
Life which is acting. You might say to Me, well I
have earned it. Surely enough! Surely enough, you
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 4 11
have by centuries of activity. If you had not, you
would not even be interested or have it now; but
since you have become interested, why not enter in
with the full Glory and speed of achievement, which
will give you the enthusiasm, the joy and the energy?
In calling forth this energy with such power you can­
not fail to have the results and the proof that you
want. It gives you the confidence to know your Victory
is certain.
If you want to prove something right, you can al­
ways do it. If you want to prove something wrong,
you can prove it wrong; because the wrong is in the
mind of the individual who sees it. Dear ones, remem­
ber! you are a world of your own! and the minute you
allow someone to intrude inharmony in it, you are
going to pay the penalty; because you accepted it, and
later you will find you have to undo the whole thing.
That to Me is one of the pitiful things in mankind’s
experience, Dear ones, unless you will call the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” to draw Its Tube of Light
about you; you have no more idea than an infant of
the suggestions which are playing upon you from the
general atmosphere. Sometimes, they are consciously
directed; but even if they were not, you are moving
in a sea of human suggestions all the time. If there is
not something to shut them out of your feeling world,
they are compelled to come in and act. Because of the
quality and the activity of your feeling world, each
412 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
one of you is similar. Then why would they not
come in?
Here is a tremendous point! Because of the ac­
cumulation of discord and because of the similarity,
the feeling world has been living and running itself,
Oh, for many centuries. Then, is it any wonder your
feeling keeps reaching out all the time, instead of
standing guard? The Guard of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” is actually holding Its Dominion in many
of the precious “ I A M ” Students today. They are
getting this Wall of Light to the point where It
stands as a guard around them; and nothing comes
through it that they do not want. That is what every­
one of you should do.
Do you know how quickly your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” would produce your Tube of Light and
make It Invincible, if you would maintain harmony
in your feelings? In forty-eight hours, your Presence
would make that Tube of Light Invincible to any
human suggestions; if you would hold your feelings
harmonious and maintain it.
Now precious people, do not deceive yourselves
any more. I say this in all kindness. I want you to have
the Victory; but if you allow yourselves to get dis­
turbed, you cannot help but see that you let the
inharmony into your world. It is you, dear ones, you
are the regulator of what is going to act in your world.
No one can regulate it for you. For instance, like
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 4i3
Saint Germain told the Messenger last night when
he had this hoarseness: “ Well,” He said: “ He went
out and found it, so it is up to him to chase it out.
If I chased it out for him, he might do it more quickly
the next time.” So whatever you do which allows
something to find action in your world, it is your
responsibility, not anything or anyone’s else.
That is what mankind has been unwilling to
recognize, and even more unwilling to accept; be­
cause of course up until three years ago, people were
believing everyone else was responsible for the
trouble but themselves; but after all, a thing cannot
act in your feeling world without some invitation
from you. I wish you could see your own feeling world
right now. Just now, you would like to look at it. Pos­
sibly a few years ago you would not have cared to. If
you were to see the change in your precious feeling
worlds, even with some mistakes which you have
made, you would realize it is as definite as daylight
and darkness. Then go on and change it completely
into the Light of the Ascended Masters.
Do not think for one minute, We would ever say a
thing that was not true, even to encourage you. We
might be silent, but never never do We speak an un­
truth. When We see you sincerely and earnestly at­
taining such great accomplishment, I Myself, will
always tell you; but of course, you must not be puffed
up about it. The more humble you are to this Great
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
414
Presence of all Light, the quicker will come your
Eternal Freedom.
Never feel rebellious to Life, to the Ascended
Masters or to the Presence. One lady, whom the Mes­
senger told you about would have nothing more to
do with the “ I AM ,” because her mother passed on.
Just such feeling has been the attitude of mankind.
It is so in thousands of ways; but you, today, are at
the point when you can take your Dominion. There is
no question in the world about it!
I also attended the Minute Men’s Meeting at the
Trinity Auditorium here today. Now gentlemen, do
not get puffed up; but if some of you knew the voices
which are within you and what your voices could do,
the gymnasiums would not hold you. I tell you dear
people, the Students of the “ I A M ” are going to take
on the Silver Clarion Voice in both speech and song.
Do not be anxious about it! Just make the call every
night before you retire: “ ‘Mighty I AM Presence’!
give me Thy silver tone; give me the Golden Tongue
of the ‘I A M ’ and Its Voice in both speech and song.
Give me the Liquid Voice which will flow and melt
everything of human creation.”
I am watching My opportunity, to show you what
the voice can do. Of course you understand, I am
not exploiting Myself; but for the blessing and bene­
fit that it can give. Mankind have these magnificent
faculties! Yet they do not even give thanks or con-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 415
sideration for the magnificent jewels they have right
within their own grasp all the time: your voice, your
vision, your feeling, your power of qualification! any
one of which can lift you to the heights and hold you
there. Then when you combine all, how certain it
makes your Victory!
Beloved ones, I just love to talk to you; but since
you have to be cognizant of time, perhaps it is not well
for Me to be extravagant; but if you feel like I feel, we
all feel wonderful! How I long for you all to enter
into your Real Inner Happiness. Oh, beloved ones,
once you touch that, the happiness of the outer world
will never hold you longer. Then, you will come
more and more into your Inner Happiness. It will
extend into your outer world. Then will True Happi­
ness, True Harmony be on earth, for It is coming. Do
not be discouraged.
Shall I say something which will make you very
happy? You were told that forty-seven percent of the
energy needed to enable the constructive Forces to
hold Dominion had been gained. It takes fifty-three
percent to hold the balance for Victory. Tonight
America has fifty percent. Will you rejoice dear ones;
will you please rejoice with all your hearts; and go
on with re-doubled effort with your Decrees and your
application?
Saint Germain thinks I should tell you more of
what was mentioned this afternoon. There have been
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
416
a few feminine black magicians; but there was one
who was so cunning that she avoided the Ascended
Masters everywhere. You wonder how that can be
done! Not when you understand the manipulation of
substance! Not when you know what great wisdom
can do! Yesterday, she was seized and bound and will
disturb the earth no more. She was responsible for
the terrible dope condition existing in America
today; and also for many other conditions. She has
been responsible for a lot of inharmony in the mass
of individuals who wanted this Light. So, rejoice that
another destructive vicious condition has been re­
moved from America.
Do not let your mind dwell upon these things after
they are accomplished. It is imperative for you to
know in your feeling world that these things have
been done. Remember! the Light moves into action!
and all unlike It dissolves before It! Will you always
remember this in every condition which confronts
you? Then, it will keep you from anxiety or distress.
I join Saint Germain and the Goddess of Liberty
in saying, I too love you. Your earnestness, your sin­
cerity can bring but one result—your Victory in the
Light! Never waver! beloved ones. Go on and on,
until every limiting thing dissolves before you and
from your world. Remember, you do not have to ac­
cept one thing into your world which you do not
want. Your feeling world, even though silent, will
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 417
repel anything you do not want; if you will call the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” to charge it with the Power
of Divine Love. If it is a fierce repellent feeling, then
the Presence will also charge forth Its Divine Love
with a powerful harmonizing activity; and the
achievement will be without discord.
Therefore, I thank you for this privilege of talking
heart to heart to you tonight. I thank you for your
Love poured out to Me, whom as yet you do not know;
but I know you very well. You see We have some
advantage. One day, you too will have that advantage.
In the fulness of the Light, the Eternal Light of
God, the “ Mighty I AM ,” in Its Great Enfolding
Directing Intelligence, I hold you. I clothe you in
Its Enfolding Power of Divine Love; in the releasing
of Its Limitless Energy into your world. Tonight,
may you feel Its Infinite Courage charging your mind
and body, with Its Eternally Sustained Activity, until
never again for one single moment is there a lack of
energy. May there never again be one wavering
moment in your consciousness or feeling world; but
instead, just a steady drive forward unto the goal—
your Victory.
Tonight, I just love to add My Call to yours, so you
may have a more intensified response. Feel it! accept
it! charge it! to be eternally sustained.
Never in all the experience of the Messengers has
there ever been anything so wonderful as this Class;
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
418
so far-reaching, and it will grow more and more so.
Every Activity of Light has joined you with Its as­
sisting Power. Therefore, be encouraged, dear ones.
Will you, just for a moment, hold this stillness and
let It act within yo^ur world. Just let this tremendous
vibratory action in the room fill your mind and
body; and sweep out the cause and effect of every
disturbance that has ever been there and its record.
Thank you, Oh Great Presence of all Life, for Your
Perfect Work for these students. Clothe them in Thy
Wondrous Light and hold Its Sustaining Power and
Activity within and about them forever. Bless them
with Its Eternal Perfection, ever-expanding. I thank
you, Oh blessed ones.
M A R Y , T H E M O T H E R OF J E S U S ’
D I S C O U R S E
GLENDALE, CALIFORNIA
JUNE 30, 1937
B
ELOVED Children of the Light and of America,
why should I not speak to you? Have you
placed Me so far away, that I cannot tell of
My Love for you? I am sure you have not. I take
advantage of this opportunity as We are all drawing
so much closer into the world of human activity, be­
cause of the great need today.
The need is very great, as it was in the time of Our
Ministry so long ago—I should hardly say with My
Beloved Son. Yet, I still do think of Him as that. You
know We mothers are curious Beings are We not? We
seem never to forget Our Wondrous Motherhood. It
is quite marvelous. Yet so very much more marvelous
is that day in the future, when there will come again
the True Motherhood and Fatherhood of form, by
the projection of the Light Rays to produce those
forms.
Beloved ones, My friends of long ago, we are en­
tering into the Eternal Perfection which all have
worked for so earnestly throughout the centuries.
Many times, from the dimness of the Light within
419
420 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
humanity, it did look uncertain. There is no doubt
about that. Even We, from the Ascended State at
times—because of the condition of the Light within
mankind—thought and discussed how long it would
take the beloved people to awaken sufficiently, for
the Assistance to be given which is being poured out
today.
May I say a Word to you tonight about that which
fills My Heart to over-flowing? It is about your Be­
loved Saint Germain! What would you and all have
done without His Courage and Determination to try
this out; and make the effort to bring This Under­
standing once again to mankind? I tell you, precious
ones, humanity never in the world could give praise
enough to Him. Shall I tell you what I do in Our
Ascended State? If it sounds strange to you, please do
not feel it so. I make the call to the Infinite Source of
Light once every twenty-four hours, according to your
time, in praise, thanks and blessing to Saint Germain!
for This Work which He has given to humanity.
One day, you will come to know how wonderfully
true It all is. Oh, what a great blessing It is in the
hands of mankind. You have a Scepter of Power in
the Understanding of the Presence, which every one
can wield to bring Freedom from limitation and the
Ascension.
May I tonight, for an hour, just be a Mother to all
of you? You know a mother has power to convey a
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 421
feeling to her child or her children, sometimes
stronger than the father. So tonight, let us for a while
just be Mother and children talking heart to heart.
While the Messenger’s voice speaks My Words to you,
let our hearts speak to each other. One day not so far
distant, you will come to know this too as a Great
Reality; for you will speak heart to heart to each other
through the feeling, as definitely as you now speak to
each other in words. All Ascended Masters speak
thus through the feeling.
We often use worded expressions, but still it is not
really necessary. As soon as We have a thought, the
color flashes which reveals the feeling; because the
thought carries the form and the feeling the color.
Thought carries the form and feeling the color! It is
just as natural as breathing and is absolutely definite.
It cannot be misunderstood as words sometimes are.
You come to know what each color and thought means
as it appears. Every form has a definite thought back
of it.
So it is in your world of activity, beloved ones. This
is going on all the time, invisible to most of you as
yet; but still perfectly tangible. As the Messengers
have so often reminded you, a thing may be invisible,
but still tangible. So is thought and feeling! It is com­
pletely invisible, but it is absolutely tangible to you.
Will you remind yourselves of this often, that you
may receive the greatest benefit and have the greatest
422 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
ease in Self control; in other words, govern your feel­
ing world with the greatest ease? You come to the
point in your progress and in the expansion of your
Light, when it is imperative for your feeling world
to be kept harmonious.
Beloved ones, will you please feel how natural all
of This Instruction is? You discuss each other! We
discuss you! Of course, We always discuss you with
the Greatest Constructive Feeling and you will all
come to do the same thing. We have Great Patience,
when We see the Infinite Patience of the Great
Cosmic Beings Who govern worlds and planets and
systems. They wait for the activity within those plan­
ets to come to a certain point where its complete Per­
fection can manifest. Then, why should We feel
impatient, when humanity does not always come up
to the standard which it knows?
To know a thing in the intellect is one thing; and
to know the same thing and sustain it in the feeling
is quite another thing, as you have all discovered.
Yet the joy of it is, the great, the wonderful Victory
which you are winning constantly. As the Great
Himalaya said to you recently, your Victory is far
greater than you realize; but that does not mean you
should ease up on your efforts—not at all.
We have watched the progress of mankind, includ­
ing Ourselves, before Our attainment; and the force
of human creation has been the same throughout the
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 423
centuries. There is no change! no difference in its
activity or any quality less than Perfection, when it
is acting. It is the same throughout nature, through­
out mankind; but once you come to the point where
you are beginning to feel your Dominion and your
Victory, Oh what a change in your world takes place.
Only by having your attention fixed upon the Su­
preme Giver of Life, can this possibly come about and
be sustained. You see, no one can have a sustaining
power, without knowing that he has an Individual­
ized God Presence—the “ Mighty I AM Presence.” He
must know where his own Focus of Perfection is.
The proof is that throughout the centuries, man­
kind who did not know this Presence, did not have a
sustaining Power. They have advanced to a point and
then lost it. They have risen to a certain height and
then again lose it. In each embodiment of every one,
more or less progress is made; but you see there has
been no understanding which sustained the gain.
There has been nothing to cause the individual, at
the close of a span of Life, to go out of Life with such
a firm desire for Perfection, that it would be the com­
pulsion of the next Life. Whenever such a desire was
within the individual at the close of one span of Life,
then the powerful impulse of the next Life brought
about Great Illumination of the mind. Today, you
are the manifestation, you are the example of what
the Power of the attention does; when fixed upon
424 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
your Source of Life, which is God, your “ Mighty I
AM Presence.”
At the time of My Son’s Ministry, We were taught
this identical Application. Jesus was taught It by the
Great Divine Director. Then, He taught John and
Myself. This very Instruction enabled Us to soon fol­
low Him in the Ascension.
I assure you tonight, beloved ones, that when in
the Wisdom of the Ascended Ones, They see it is
right, a Complete and Perfect Description and As­
cended Master Explanation of what took place in His
Life will be given. I mean that which has been clothed
with human opinions will be cleared; and that which
has not been recorded will be brought forth to man­
kind. Then, you will know the exact activity, which
took place at the time.
It is so easy for the Ascended Masters to read the
records of every civilization. They are in the ethers
as plain as you read your song books, your Decree
Books or the Books of Saint Germain. These are not
unusual things. Only because mankind has not under­
stood them, do they seem at first unusual; but in all
manifestation and activity of Life there is not one
single thing unusual, beloved ones. T ry to feel that,
I plead with you. T ry to feel, no matter how trans­
cendent the Being, how transcendent the Activity or
how transcendent the Manifestation, which comes
forth, still it is all perfectly natural; because it is the
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 425
Law of Life. Nothing can manifest to you that is not
according to Law.
Now notice! in all limitations which mankind has
drawn about it, while individuals were using the
energy of Life; it was the mistaken qualification by
the feeling which produced limited conditions and
results. It is not the fault of the energy nor the Law
of Life. It is because mankind had to be given free
will and through that, they must choose how they
desire to direct this energy. It is flowing forth con­
stantly, and most of you by this time must see and
understand why you have not had more of this energy
and Perfection of the Presence flowing through. It
was simply because you did not know the Presence was
there. Metaphysics has taught that God, the Christ, is
within. It is true, but how much of It? When We Our­
selves came to know this point, We made the Ascen­
sion through that Knowledge. It is true, We had
previous understanding, but still even with it, We
had not made the Ascension. Dear ones, it is so curious
how mankind takes an idea and builds upon it; takes
an individual and builds a creation or concept of its
own about that one. Humanity generates all kinds
of concepts concerning that idea or that individual.
They are rarely correct; but still according to the
advancement of the individuals, do mankind receive
clearly or partially, the part of the Law which is re­
leased by whatever feeling is within them.
426 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
I trust I shall be able to fix so firmly within your
consciousness the feeling: that today you can have
all the means you need to give you comfort and
happiness. Perhaps you think of Me as a Special Be­
ing. Every human being is a special being! Why? Be­
cause your own God Presence supplies the Life, the
Energy, the Substance by which your form exists on
this earth today. Then is that not true? Is not every
one a special being?
In all religious activities of the world, the Truth
to some degree has been clothed with human con­
cepts. Believe Me, when I say to you tonight, and I
shall do it to the whole world: The inception of the
Catholic Church was brought about by and through
the Power of the Ascended Masters. There has never
been an embodiment since its inception, in which
there has not been an Ascended Master somewhere
in that church, Who was the Guardian of what took
place. If mistakes began to creep in too much, they
were checked.
Today, beloved ones, in all activities of attention
to the Divinity, the culminating point is arriving. All
churches, all religions, all activities through all meta­
physical activities and everything which brings the
attention in any way to the higher understanding of
Life; or in any wise calls the attention to Divinity; all
are closing into This One Central Point—the “ Mighty
I AM Presence” ! We see that! We know this must
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 427
come! If only precious beloved humanity could un­
derstand this “ Mighty I AM Presence,” and the
preachers take This Understanding fearlessly into
the churches everywhere; the joy, the speed and re­
lease of humanity from the discord and limitations of
today, would be almost like lightning.
May I draw an example for a moment? Take your
beloved Messengers. They went forth absolutely fear­
less in regard to the opinions of mankind. They have
grown steadily more fearless from the beginning.
That is why so many people have accepted this Blessed
Understanding of the “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Be­
loved ones, if you individually, could just suddenly
put out of your feeling world, every vestige of con­
cern about what someone else was going to think or
do; you would be so amazed how quickly and readily
people would accept what you offer. Do you realize,
that if fear or uncertainty are within your feeling
world; and you speak to someone, for instance about
the Truth of the “ I AM ” ; the probability is, the in­
dividual will question or begin to argue; but if you
go to them with an absolute certainty within your
feeling of the Understanding of the Presence and you
are really correct; it will be the rarest thing for anyone
to resist or doubt you.
Many times the Messengers have said to individuals
in reference to the orthodox world: “ Go forth fear­
lessly and speak the Truth! Let every one be free to
428 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
accept or reject It.” Then, mankind understands no
one is trying to impose anything upon the individual.
When they feel they are really being given Freedom,
they will listen. So it is in your activity today. Never
try to force the Truth upon any one. Pour Love and
Blessing to the people! Call their “ Mighty I AM
Presence” into action to awaken them to the Truth;
and remember always, that all Activity of the Presence
is NOW! Do not feel or allow the suggestion to act in
your feeling world; that sometime in the future, the
individual will accept it. Just say to the “ Mighty I
AM Presence” : “ You see to it that they awaken and
accept this now; because wre know it is their Freedom!
Give them strength and courage to do this.” Then
you are rendering the greatest service possible, to
assist your fellow man through courage, strength or
whatever is required, for them to awaken and accept
their Freedom.
Everyone must be free! This is why Saint Germain
told you in the beginning, it would be impossible for
This Work to be organized or committees formed;
or the conditions used that ordinarily act in the outer
activity of the world in churches or otherwise; because
people must be free! They must be turned to their
Presence! Sooner or later, their Presence will direct
them unerringly and show them the Perfect Thing.
It is the only way, mankind can come to a point of
decision within themselves.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 429
Beloved ones, remember the privilege it is to use
the Chart, as you have it before you; to use the Violet
Consuming Flame and the Tube of Light, which can
be made an Invincible Protection about you; and let
Me say, the protection you need is not so much from
disaster, as from human suggestions. If you will call
the Presence to hold about you Its Invincible Tube of
Light, you will not accept into your feeling world
suggestions of others; even though they may be con­
sciously projected to you, and that is so very im­
portant. We see, how blessed mankind are acting out
the impulses of others so much more than they are
their own. They do not act out the impulses from
their own “ Mighty I AM Presence” ; because of the
old momentum and habits which they have accumu­
lated through depending upon outer things—through
many centuries. This is why, beloved ones, you are in
the position to set yourselves free through This Un­
derstanding of your Presence. The use of these ac­
tivities is so simple, yet they are majestic and power­
ful. You are able to set yourselves free! There are
thousands of the blessed ones who are actually doing
it! That is the beauty of This Understanding, and
can you imagine Our Rejoicing?
There are both the Motherhood and Fatherhood
of God—the “ Mighty I AM Presence.” They are two
mighty elements which are acting in the world of
mankind all the time, and of course in your human
430 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
forms. The intellect represents the father, and the
heart the mother. The feeling world, both use. The
heart says to the intellect: “ If you will allow me to
govern, peace, harmony and abundance will reign;
but if you take the reins, having only the appearance
world from which to draw your concepts; then you
will make many mistakes. The heart, being the ac­
tivity of the Presence within the human form, will nol
make mistakes.”
As your attention goes to your Presence, remem­
ber! Love, Wisdom and Power are acting, balancing
both the form and activity. If you allow the heart to
act, which is the Presence prompting you through the
feeling world, your intuition; then you will soon
come to the point where you will be certain, each time
an Inner impulse or prompting comes, where it comes
from. At first, one must call the discrimination from
his Higher Mental Body into action. You may not
often know what the impulse is which is acting, until
you try it out; until you keep calling the Presence
into action. Even then you may make some mistakes.
Please do not be discouraged about it, if you do! Only
when you are wholly free from human limitations
are you Perfect. That is only after you have made the
Ascension. So do not be discouraged, if, when you at­
tempt to call your Presence into action, occasionally
you make a mistake. Say: “ Now hold on! ‘Mighty I
AM Presence’ you stand guard here and see that I do
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 431
not do this again.” In that way, you will soon correct
all mistakes, all those things.
The great beauty and Power of this Application is,
that it only requires the right motive and great sin­
cerity within the individual. If that be maintained, it
will in a short time call forth such Perfection, such
clearness of the Directing Intelligence from the
Mighty Presence, that mankind will no longer be
making mistakes. However, one may not intrude
upon another; but each can be of the greatest blessing
to all others by pouring out blessing and calling the
Presence into action for all, whom they know or who
touch their world.
You are being given All-powerful Statements which
do release from your Presence all that is required, to
govern your activity and release your supply and pro­
tection.
May I remind you of what is still acting on some
occasions? The individual makes his earnest applica­
tion and then touches the outer world. Either through
a spoken word or some suggestion, he starts another
train of thought and feeling. That changes the whole
current of energy which he charged forth into action
to produce a given result. This is why the results
with some do not come so quickly. There are so many
of the students who are having almost instantaneous
and marvelous results. Their understanding perhaps,
is no greater than others having less results; except,
433 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
that they have discovered the Great Fundamental,
that as long as their feeling keeps harmonious; and
their call to the Presence goes forth into action, every
call is answered—very quickly. Once they have dis­
covered this secret and see how quickly the fulfillment
comes; they will not allow suggestions verbal or other­
wise to affect them. They will stand firm and steady!
I want to answer one question tonight, which has
been in the minds of a great many students. We use
various kinds of terminology; but always simple in
its explanation, so it cannot be misunderstood. When
We say, any of the Ascended Masters say to you:
“ Stand in and to your ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ ” it
means just that. When you stand to your “ Mighty I
AM Presence,” it means, that you are undivided in
Its Power. When you stand at attention, your atten­
tion is upon a definite objective! When you want to
have anything manifest in your experience; it means
that you must hold a definite focus of your attention,
upon the call to your Presence unyielding. In not
allowing anything to intrude or disturb that call, it
will act quickly.
Always ask your Presence, when you have made an
earnest call, to stand guard over it and see that nothing
disturbs your feeling, until that is made manifest to
you. The Presence will do it! Remember, beloved
ones, your Higher Mental Body is one of the most
magnificent Activities of all mankind! because It is
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 433
your discriminating selective Intelligence, which
knows every requirement. It wants you to have all
good so much; but if your feeling is requalifying all
the energy which you call forth; is your Presence, is
your Higher Mental Body, to blame? If you will not
govern your attention; or you allow the feeling to re­
qualify the energy you have called forth; then your
human self goes on doing the same old thing all the
time, instead of producing the results you want.
Now these are such tremendous activities! They are
so very simple! The Great Ones commanded, that
This Understanding go forth in simple language; and
it will never be changed throughout eternity; because
technical terminology has no part in the Activity of
the God Presence, the “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
Many times, technical terms are used to cover the lack
of understanding of the subject under discussion.
There is nothing in the Great Law of Life which re­
quires technical terminology.
Take your so-called courts of justice today! If every
word used were so simple that the layman could un­
derstand it; great would be the Divine Justice to all!
Such Divine Justice is coming to all! Be not dis­
couraged, beloved ones! Saint Germain has told you
so truly, that owing to the Great Cosmic Law, it is
making it more and more possible for the Ascended
Masters to release greater Power and Light. Then,
They will no longer tolerate the imperfections of
434 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
mankind! The imperfection of all mankind has come
to its breaking point, beloved ones! It is losing its
power every day! Will you not believe that? Will you
not accept it and to every appearance that seems dis­
turbing say: “ It has no power” ! Then, that appear­
ance can no longer have power to act among man­
kind.
Many are being awakened and raised up to voice
the Truth in your government, and in conditions of
disturbance throughout the world. I say for your en­
couragement tonight, that there is a great awakening
in the mass of mankind. People are beginning to see
the deception which has been practiced upon them;
by those who used, what seemed to be a good means,
to intrude something vicious. Humanity is awaken­
ing, I tell you dear ones, to the Great Truth of Life!
and they will not be so easily deceived in the future!
These little “ Save America Folders” which the
blessed ones have sent forth; calling the attention of
mankind to the need for the protection of America,
are doing tremendous things. Keep it up, I urge you!
Keep those folders going out everywhere you can to
mankind; because individuals who cannot accept this
deeper Understanding of Life concerning the Pres­
ence; will take hold and use this Law, when it comes
to the protection of their beloved country—America.
You are so privileged, beloved ones, to be the
Carriers of the Light for this Great Incoming Perfec-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 435
tion! Beloved ones, there is no service on earth today
so great! but I say to you and to all the students: “ be
so sure of yourselves in your Understanding of the
‘Mighty I AM Presence’ and in your Understanding
of the explanation of this Chart.” I say to the indi­
vidual students, the Group Leaders and the people
who go forth carrying this Light to others: “ Please
believe Me, when I say, there is nothing so important
as this Understanding of the Law” ! The Messenger
has given you the correct worded explanation of that
Chart! Please follow it! Do not vary from it. Then, all
will see that they have a foundation, upon which to
build their Structure of Perfection. With the Violet
Consuming Flame, they have the most powerful
means to dissolve and consume the old structure of
imperfection.
In the so-called slums of your cities, you tear down
the old buildings to put up newer ones, more beauti­
ful ones, more comfortable ones. So it is in correcting
a structure of human creations. You must tear the old
down, or in other words, dissolve and consume it.
Then, build your structure in the Ascended Masters’
Strength and Understanding of the Presence, for It
is the only means by which you can have Perfection.
That is the Greatest Joy, Oh beloved ones! Our
hearts entwine with yours! We long, Oh so intensely,
to see you free! We rejoice so—shall I use the word
“extremely,” when We see you gaining the Victory!
436 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
You are winning It! Do not waver! Do not waver,
blessed ones! Keep your feelings harmonious, no
matter what the appearance is and go on, and on, in
your earnest determined call to the Presence! It isthe
Law of Life! It cannot fail you! It cannot fail to
answer! but if you keep asserting: “ I wonder, if I have
the ability? I wonder if this is going to be accom­
plished or that is going to be accomplished”? you are
dividing your power, and you will only have partial
results. Do stand so firm, when you have started out,
for a given purpose. Be sure that it is wholly construc­
tive, then stand firmly by it! Keep calling the Presence
into action, until it is achieved! It cannot fail!
We must necessarily see the great distress of man­
kind, from their seeming inability to release the
financial supply, which they require under the pres­
ent conditions. With those individuals, who have
trouble or are struggling that way, it is because un­
knowingly they have accepted into their feeling world
this mass pressure of limitation and distress.
I tell you, dear ones, as Others have told you, that
each one, in the Understanding of his ‘‘Mighty I AM
Presence” knows he cannot fail; no matter what the
condition in the outer world is today. It has absolutely
no power to interfere with what the Presence will do
for each one. Do you think that sounds strange, com­
ing from Me? Not at all! These are Laws of Life!
There is no selfishness in mankind, in individuals
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 437
wanting to perfect themselves and their worlds. The
great trouble with humanity, up to the present time
or until Saint Germain brought this forth, has been
the feeling, that they had to sacrifice everything. In
doing that they but make themselves helpless to go
any further.
Only as you perfect yourself in your world, can
you be of greater and greater blessing and assistance
to others. It does not mean that you must become an
Ascended Being, before you can render a beautiful
service—not at all. In your Stream of Life as you go
on, and on, to your Perfection, in calling the Presence
of other individuals into action to produce that Per­
fection for them; you are rendering, I assure you, the
greatest possible service you can render, to your fel-
lowman.
Under the Law of Life, everyone must stand within
his Presence and one day, draw Its full Perfection
forth into outer manifestation. This is the Perfection
of the form and the Ascension! Can it be possible,
that individuals among mankind think: that the de­
sire for Perfection of the body, which means beauty,
can be wrong? It would be a mistake, if it were just
to gratify vanity. The True Understanding of Life is,
that in the fulness of Its Expression, everything is
Beauty and Perfection of form, of all form which is
manifested; whether it be in your physical world or
whether it be in the Higher Octaves.
438 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
Life is Beauty! It is Perfection! It holds no imper­
fection in Itself. It is only as mankind clothes Life’s
Energy with discordant feeling, that it finds expres­
sion in imperfect forms or forms that are less than
beautiful. Life, in Its natural Activity, produces
Happiness, Beauty and Perfection in whatever form
it is manifesting; if it be allowed to do so and have
Its own Perfect Way. That comes when mankind
stops reclothing Life’s energy with discord and the
limitations of the human world through its feeling.
You must realize, that one must be strong and firm
at first, in This Understanding to keep shutting out
of his world the discordant things, which still keep
registering limitation within him. All must stand
firm and do not allow themselves to have an opinion
concerning any person, place, condition or thing; but
just keep focusing their attention upon the Presence
and keep saying: ‘“ Mighty I AM Presence’ there is
nothing with which I am concerned, except the per­
fecting of my world.” Then as your Radiance goes
forth, all that touches your world will want to be like
it; will want to have the Radiance which they feel;
which is beautiful and delightful. This is why, be­
loved ones, your responsibility to each other in your
association is very great! Do you not see that? It is very
great, for to the degree that you clothe this Mighty
Energy flowing forth from your Presence with dis­
cord, are you responsible for its effect upon another.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 439
Every precious “ I A M ” Student should remember
only one thing— “ 1 Am about my Father’s Business”—
about the Business of My “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
As they keep giving attention to It, they will forget
that others are disturbing to them.
It was far worse in some ways in the time of Our
Victory than it is with you today. You have the right,
the freedom and the privilege to think and worship
as you please! You have the privilege of knowing
your Presence; knowing that there is no power in
the Universe, which can stand against your Presence,
when It is called into action.
The Messengers are the Eternal Proof to any honest
person, of the Truth of that statement. They do not
recognize or accept any opposing forces! There is not
such a thing in the world to anyone, who does not
accept it. So it is with your individual world. You feel
sometimes, as if there were persons, places or condi­
tions which oppose you. Well, really there are not!
There is no opposition to the expansion of your Light
or your own progress except yourself. What many
people feel as opposition, is really the pull between
the intellect and the feeling! The intellect wants to
argue; the feeling knows through the heart! but the
intellect says: “ Now I think you are mistaken,” and
an argument ensues; but soon you will come to know
that the heart is always right!
Remember that Great One who has said: “ When I
440 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
was searching for the Truth, at first, I heard many
voices. Then, suddenly from above me, I heard this
One Voice and when That Voice spoke, all others
became silent. That Voice always told the Truth.”
So it is, when your “ Mighty I AM Presence” is given
an opportunity to speak through your Higher Mental
Body. All outer voices, whether they be visible or
invisible, become silent before your Presence, which
is Dominion! Precious ones, feel that tonight, with all
your hearts!
I thank you beloved ones, for this opportunity to
speak to you. May the fulness of the Light of the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” expand, illumine the mind
and set you free, in the fulness of your Great—
Its
Great Perfection made manifest in your world today!
I thank you.
T H E Q U E E N O F L I G H T ’ S
D I S C O U R S E
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI
FEBRUARY 1 6, 1938
O
U T of the memories of the past I come to
| you, beloved Children of the Light. In the
preparation of the months just ahead, trans­
formations in you and your world will take place.
Because of the service which this beloved Messenger
rendered Me in a time past, the Law has so regulated
it, that now I may render a Service to the “ I AM ”
Students, the children of America.
I once knew what it meant, to be set upon in an
un-guarded moment, by that which you have come
to know as the sinister force, which is but the destruc­
tive qualities of human creation. Often those quali­
ties are seized upon by individuals who have failed
on the Pathway of Light; and they wield that force
for destructive purposes. I was one of the victims be­
cause of being off guard at the time.
Now notice this carefully, beloved ones, because it
means everything in your future. I had maintained
Life in my body for more than five hundred years,
when this occurrence took place; but I thought I had
won the Victory over the condition that then existed.
441
442 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
For nearly seventy years of that time, I had been on
guard against the group of black magicians who were
trying to catch Me off guard. It was easy for Me to
win the battle and govern the condition; but when I
was too sure of Myself, not realizing that they had not
accepted the Victory I had won, I unknowingly let
down the guard.
There was a long period in which I lived in the con­
dition that was imposed upon Me. Then, from your
beloved North America one who lived in the civiliza­
tion before this occurred, came to Me in the Andes
Mountains; and in a few weeks, again My Victory was
complete. My Ascension followed quickly, and no
longer was I subject to the conditions of the physical
world and its limitations.
Why am I explaining this to you tonight? So you
may understand, beloved students, that never until
your Ascension, should you ever be off guard for one
moment. In the acknowledgment of your “ Mighty I
AM Presence,” remember your Higher Mental Body
is the guard, which you can call into action to stand
guard over you and your world forever. Your Higher
Mental Body never sleeps; never forgets; and when
you have called It into action, to stand guard or do cer­
tain things for you; It will always do so and remain in
Its Perfect Action, if your feeling remains harmoni­
ous; so that the Power can flow through at any mo­
ment to render the service.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 443
These are simple and majestic Laws of Life which
every one of you can use if you will; but if you believe
they are half Truth, you will have half results. If you
believe they are Wholly True and accept that in your
feelings; then you will understand and have the full
blessings for which you ask. Beloved ones, these Great
Beings of Light are Those Who know the Laws of
Life; Who have passed through human experience as
you are doing; and know every detail of the require­
ment of every individual.
Today, Their service being rendered to mankind,
and especially America at this time, is the most
wonderful thing ever known in the history of the
earth. You, in the comfort of your homes; in the com­
fort of these large auditoriums; are having brought
to you the limitless Power of Light. Why do you sup­
pose that a Great Cosmic Being gave Me this name,
“The Queen of Light”? Because “ I AM ” the Victory
of Light! I had to release Myself from the condition
which had been imposed upon Me. Do not shudder
when I say this lasted for three hundred years; be­
cause I had maintained Life in that body and I could
not pass through so-called death. I had to remain in
that body until I could release Myself! Then My
Ascension came!
Do you realize, beloved students, that in those
earlier centuries the outer world knew nothing of the
Ascension. Not always within the Retreats was the
444 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
Ascension made known; except to certain individuals
whom the Great Ascended Masters saw could accom­
plish the Victory of the Ascension. Even in the midst
of other students, these individuals moved about.
They would disappear and even the students did not
know what had occurred! That was because of the
secrecy of the time. It is why in those earlier ages, the
Truth as Saint Germain has presented It to you could
not be given; because people would have been burned
at the stake.
Think through the ages! You have lived through
all of it yourselves. There is a blessed gentleman here
in the auditorium who lived in that civilization, when
this condition in South America was imposed upon
Me. He has naturally great healing power in the cur­
rents from his Presence. I speak to his heart My Love,
My Strength and My Consciousness into his feeling
world; to lift him into the Glory of his Victory and
attainment.
May I remind you that again tonight, the Great
Divine Director has enclosed you in the great Globe
of Light drawn from the Cave of Light in India. Only
in a lesser degree, than were you to walk into the Cave
of Light, are you having Its Blessing and benefit
tonight. Dear beloved ones, try to comprehend in the
feeling just what this means! To the intellect it may
sound unusual, but not to the heart which knows It
is Real. Therefore, in this great Light which enfolds
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 445
you tonight is this Radiance, consciously brought and
directed to enfold you, by the conscious Direction of
the Mighty Divine Director. So shall you have Bless­
ings your intellect would not comprehend at this
time; but try to accept It in your feeling.
This is Real, very Real, and this Light Substance
which enfolds you beloved ones, is more real than
your very physical bodies, which seem so tangible
and real to you. More and more intense has become
the activity of this Light Substance tonight; and it
will continue as the Messengers go forth in each class.
When the Victory of the Light comes fully and com­
pletely; and the great great number of students see
the Glory of which they have been a part, Oh, do you
realize your joy will know no bounds.
It is so magnificent, beloved ones. These are not
imaginary things! Just because you have not seen
some great manifestation in your own personal ex­
perience, please do not become discouraged and think
your application does not operate. If you, for any
reason have not been able to call forth the Full Power,
just go right on with your application. I say to you
tonight: there is not a person sitting in this room who
cannot call forth his “ Mighty I AM Presence,” with
Infinite Power to release anything your blessed hearts
desire which is constructive. There is no question
about it. If you do not, it is either a lack of confidence
within you or something that is acting in your feeling
446 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
world; which is still re-qualifying this Energy as it
goes forth. Remember, when you begin to call forth
the Light of your Presence, you are taking on certain
responsibility.
If you will not give obedience or compel your
human to give obedience, which is harmony in your
feelings; then when you call forth a greater volume
of energy, if there be disturbance in your feeling, your
disturbance will take on a more intensified volume of
activity; because it is a greater quantity charged with
that quality. The choice is yours! The Messengers
have explained this so constantly that if you realize it,
you will see the necessity of allowing nothing in your
world to disturb your feelings.
That is why I am here to render this Service for you
tonight, in connection with the Great Divine Di­
rector; because of the intensity—now notice—
of the
point to which you have raised yourselves by your
application. Beloved Ones, you do not imagine, you
do not realize yet, what your application has done for
you. There are many in this room tonight who are
ready to step forth free. In this class, or during it, I
am sure they will be wholly set free from their own
human accumulation. It is a magnificent thing!
You may not realize it, but the Great Beings, Saint
Germain and many of Us know your calls very well.
We have heard every one of them, and no earnest
sincere call ever goes unrewarded. Will you remem-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 447
ber that, beloved Children of the Light? No sincere
call can ever go unrewarded. Why? Because what
makes the call? Your Life is it not? Could you make a
call without the action of your Life? Then, that call
is your Life, calling for complete Freedom within the
human form. Therefore, Life, the Power of the Uni­
verse being Itself, must answer your call in the human
form. Do you not see how it is impossible for your
call not to be answered?
If there is some qualification going on in your feel­
ing world which is still qualifying the energy that you
call forth; the fault is not in your call; the fault is
not in the energy which is going forth. The fault is
in your feeling requalifying it. You are given a choice
as to how you wish to govern it. There is not one who
cannot govern his feelings, if he really wants to. When
you want the Light, when you want your Freedom
more than you want your breath, then you will have
it!
Oh, you must mean business in your call for Free­
dom in the Light, because of your long accumulated
qualities which have been governing you. Therefore,
remember for thousands of lives, you have accumu­
lated more or less discord. Today, in Oh so short a
time, you are able by the use of the Violet Consuming
Flame, to call to the Presence to reverse everything; in
all the currents of Life which have acted; to dissolve
and consume your mistakes, discordant qualities and
448 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
accumulations. Then, turning to the Presence hold
harmony in your feelings and let the Power, the
Purity and Perfection, which is the Life Stream flow­
ing down from the Presence, take Its full Dominion
in you and your world. In Its Great Volume of Purity
and Perfection, It produces perfect health in your
body at once; and goes out into your world to produce
such harmony that everything you desire comes
quickly into manifestation.
What is your sincere constructive desire? God in
action! Look at this jewel on the hand of the Mes­
senger. As a lad, he desired with all his heart a single
jewel of that kind. After desiring it so long, he thought
it was no use and stopped. The desire went on, and
when he had completely forgotten about it, it mani­
fested. Beloved ones, I could take you one by one and
cause you to look back just through the experiences
of this life-time; and show you, by the hundreds, your
desires which were fulfilled; but you do not realize
it. You accept these things and go on, not even recog­
nizing that they were former desires being fulfilled
today. Many times, past impulses and intense desires
have become the compulsions of this embodiment.
You see, beloved ones, how marvelously you were
acting within the Law hundreds of times; and yet,
not knowing the Presence, not knowing what was
going on; you took it for granted that it was a matter
of course. You have often thought: well it just hap-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 449
pened! There is not a thing that just happens any­
where in this Universe. Everything has a definite
cause and produces a definite result. Therefore, be­
loved ones, you are entering into a great Stream of
Life which carries in Its Stream only glorious Per­
fection. You, in your purity, are working for your
full release. Step by step, you are rising out of all
conditions of your own creation, and one day you
will stand wholly free. Make no mistake about it!
You will know it the instant you feel yourself free
from all accumulations.
Will you try to feel with Me for a few moments
what it would mean to you; to suddenly be fully con­
scious that every condition which has ever limited
or bound you was suddenly released and dissolved;
that you could go forth in the morning, making your
call to the Presence and have your manifestation
within a few hours, or few days; whatever you call
for? Will you feel this just for a few moments and try
to register it in your feeling world, as I pour forth
the energy to you? I want to give you the Assistance;
so you feel within your feeling world My Power of
Victory and Consciousness.
The Light with which I enfold you within this
Great Globe of Light, which the Divine Director has
provided, is a current of energy flowing into you;
into your feeling world; and that Energy I am giving
to you! It is yours, but it will act in you with My
450 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
Power of Light. May I repeat this to you so you m
ay
understand it fully? This Light which I am giving to
you is My Current of Energy charging into your feel­
ing world. It is yours, but it acts with My Quality and
Power of Light, to produce Perfection for you.
T ry to feel this deeply, if your body is not as strong
and healthy as you would like to have it. This which I
am giving you tonight, if you will give attention to It
and FEEL IT ; accepting Its cleansing, purifying,
healing Power into your bodies, will fill you with
health as you call to your Presence. Do not make a
mistake about this. Do not just depend on this Energy
which I am giving you. I am giving it because you are
making earnest sincere call to your “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” The Law would not permit it otherwise.
Therefore, do not just look to the Energy which I am
giving; but make your earnest sincere application in
the call to your Presence. Then, this Energy will give
you the Assistance that makes you the Victorious
Presence quickly in your health, in your supply of
money or whatever is required.
Mankind is no longer subject to the selfishness and
destruction of groups or individuals. Will you not
feel the Power of your Presence to correct all such
conditions? Oh, I understand quite well, having been
a part of many governments. I know quite well what
is going on in your government today and how things
are trying to be imposed upon your people; but do
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 451
not be dismayed at these conditions. As you, a body
of more than four hundred thousand students, issue
these Decrees, do you think for one moment that you
cannot regulate the conditions; even in the require­
ments of the government?
This energy is Law! This energy from your Pres­
ence, this Law called forth into action, is Divine
Justice! It will act to produce Divine Justice every­
where—
even in your government! Do not yield and
waver an instant in your Decrees for Divine Justice
in your government, for mankind and in your in­
dustries! It shall reign in America! and if you will
stand with Us in your call, I tell you Divine Justice
shall reign in your government! Then, if indi­
viduals in those positions do not render It, then those
will be placed in their positions who will give Divine
Justice to her people. Do not yield for one second to
the present conditions which exist. In some ways,
they are chaotic, but I tell you the Power of Light
shall reign in America!
What has happened so recently? Follow this care­
fully if you will. In the beginning of this Work, the
Great Being, Victory, came forth at the Royal Teton
and issued certain Edicts for the earth. Then, the
Goddess of Liberty came forth into action. Today, by
the Great Law of Life, I have been called forth into
action, to produce in the earth the All-powerful Ac­
tivity of the Three Fold Flame.
452 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
This Mighty Power of the Three Fold Flame repre­
sented in the Royal Teton shall take Its Victory in
America! and shall draw into Its Mighty Power every­
thing undesirable, and such things shall be no more!
T ry to feel that, beloved students, in your future
application. Remember! Victory, the Goddess of
Liberty and Myself form the Focus at your call upon
the Power of the Unfed Flame, the Three Fold Flame
for the earth! One day, We trust not so long hence, It
will come forth visible to every human being; and
when that comes, America will lose all her troubles!
In every age, when the Victory of Light comes forth
the Constructive Activity of the Unfed Flame comes
into visibility at some point upon that landed area.
The Great Presence of Life has said to mankind in
all languages, in all ages: “ You shall hold your peace
and I will fight your battles for you, for I have
weapons ye know not of.” That is what the Great Law
of Life has said to humanity in every age. Today, in
your Life there is the fulfilling of that Mighty De­
cree sent forth in every age, because enough obedience
is being given by mankind today to allow Its release to
come forth.
There is not one earnest sincere “ I AM ” Student
in America or the world, today, who if he will listen
and apply these simple things which are given,
could not produce perfect health in the body in from
a few days to a few weeks; if he would call the cur-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 453
rents of Healing Energy to charge in and through his
body; with the same force he does when he becomes
very angry, he would have results.
I ask you to observe your own experience. Do you
not have plenty of energy when you get very angry?
Every one of you, it does not make any difference how
frail the body, when you get very angry, can move
mountains. Therefore, exert that same energy on the
side of Light and Perfection and you will have the
same and perhaps a thousand times greater result;
because that is in co-operation with the Law of Life
which is harmony and Perfection.
Do you not see the only reason limitations exist in
the world is because mankind has refused to give
obedience? Look at Myself who had such Wisdom,
wielded such Power; because I had not yet made the
Ascension, still could I make a mistake by being off
guard for one moment. This should be a lesson to all
mankind, but no one, once he has made the Ascen­
sion, can ever be off guard; for the Ascension is the
only means, beloved ones, of freeing yourselves from
the wheel of birth and re-birth. Do you not think
mankind has wandered around long enough in the
maze of human creations? It has done this for hun­
dreds and thousands of centuries and lives. You
should be greatly interested in this. Up until a hun­
dred years ago, it was a rare thing for an individual
to embody under one hundred years from the time he
454 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
had let go of his previous body and sometimes much
longer; but in the last one hundred years, mankind
are embodying very much more quickly.
Need I remind you that every power you are using
today is an invisible power? The currents of electric­
ity through the wires which light your homes, are in­
visible. You see the generator, you see the effect, but
you do not see the current pass through, do you? But
you can feel it! Now notice! You do not see this Mighty
Current of Energy from your Presence, but you can
jeel it with Infinite Power! Therefore, I say to you
again, the power of every magnificent force that you
are using in your outer world today is invisible. You
accept its use and think nothing about it; but if your
attention is suddenly called to these things, you some­
times stand in amazement that you have not given
them attention before.
I say to you, like your Beloved Saint Germain, Who
has called your attention to this Great Presence of all
Life, the “ Mighty I AM ,” and the Ascended Masters:
“ How would you know a thing without your atten­
tion upon it”? Many thousands of students today
when they first heard the Messengers and the mention
of the Ascended Masters rebelled like fury. They said:
“ It cannot be! If such Beings exist why do we not
know it”? How did you ever know of anything unless
your attention was held upon it? In your school work,
in your business today, would you know anything
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 455
about them unless your attention were held upon
them. If you did not have your attention upon your
own business, you would probably be attending to
someone’s else.
Do you not see the magnificent power which comes
through the concentration of your Life energy on any
given objective upon which it is focused? Therefore,
you become the authority of your world by the ac­
knowledgment of your “ Mighty I AM Presence” ;
and the conscious direction of Its Mighty Currents of
Energy through harmony into your feeling world.
Therefore, beloved ones, remember from this
night henceforth, that you have anchored within your
hearts, the Light of Infinite Power and Intelligence
which is your “ Mighty I AM .” You are a part of that
Great Intelligence and Presence acting here! You
have Its Power beating your hearts, acting within
your human forms which you can intensify until it
floods your being, world and government with Its
harmonious Presence and Power. It is Light, in which
there is nothing of human creation that dare attempt
to resist It. Do you see how you are dealing with a
Power of Light which is All Authority? It brooks no
interference of any kind! All you have to do is keep
your feelings harmonized and call It forth into action;
and there is no limit to which it will act for you, under
that condition.
Will you accept your Freedom now and with a
456 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
determination you have never before experienced,
face your human self and compel it into obedience to
this Law of Life? What is obedience? Compelling itto
be harmonious! That is all it has to do! Then, the
Currents of Energy from the Presence will flow forth;
produce health in the body; harmony in your achieve­
ment, and Perfection in your attainment; and any
condition to which the attention is directed.
In My Capacity, I have been assisting governments
into the height of their perfection. How did that come
about? By this identical Law and Action of energy.
Long, long, long before My Ascension, I understood
this Law and that is why nothing could harm Me,
until I was off guard. It is why there is nothing of
human creation that can harm you or limit you; un­
less you are off guard or refuse to make sufficient
application.
Beloved ones, realize once and forever! every
human being is compelled to make his own applica­
tion to his own final Victory. There are times when
you should have Assistance; when you can and do
have Assistance; but when you call for Assistance, do
not let down on your own application. We see among
the students today, many who because of the pull of
the attention on to outer things, do not give them­
selves the needed time to make the application which
holds sustained harmony about them: so that in their
call, the Presence will send Its Power forth untouched
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 457
in Its Purity and Perfection, to perform the Service
which would be intense.
Why does the Messenger have such tremendous ac­
complishment in one mighty decree today? Because
he no longer has the human accumulation. He no
longer has inharmony in his feeling world to clothe
the energy as he calls It forth. That is why It goes
forth in Its own Purity whereunto It is sent. You
may everyone do the same thing.
You must realize the power of momentum, which
means the continuous carrying of Power from your
Presence. It would be better if you did not gather It,
than not to balance It by Self-control in the human
octave. You must face the Law of Life, and I am
prompting you! When you call forth Power of the
Presence in a greater volume, you must balance it in
the physical octave by Self-control in your feeling
world; and everyone can do it.
In Our Great Love, and as many others have said
to the students, We see the nearness of the Victory of
so many of the “ I AM ” Students of America. I mean
also the many who have not thought their applica­
tion was producing results. Oh, if you could see the
change in your own world around you, you would
never think such a thing. There is not one who has
made earnest application in whom there is not a
complete transformation in that one’s own world.
You know definitely the imperative need! The only
458 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
thing which can give you Freedom is harmony con­
tinuously maintained in your feeling. It is so easy;
just one thing to do. Then, as you call the Power
of your Presence forth into action, It will flow out like
a mighty river. Of course, It knows no resistance nor
interference and It will accomplish immediately that
whereunto It is sent.
Remember, beloved ones, your attention held upon
an objective of attainment is the Power; and releases
the Currents of Energy from your Presence which
flood out continuously through your attention, to the
objective to accomplish its purpose. Therefore, if you
let your attention swing like a pendulum, how is the
energy going to find its objective? It is as if you took
your hand like this and you directed a force to a cer­
tain spot; but if your hand keeps wavering around
like that, how could it ever get there? Just so! with the
power of your attention.
Beloved ones, you do not but in a fragmentary
manner yet comprehend the Power which is in the
attention of every human being. It is limitless. When
your attention is fixed upon an objective, the full
Power of the energy from your Presence is flowing
forth to your objective; and nothing in the world
can stop its accomplishment but yourself. When you
take your attention off, the energy stops.
Let Me assure you of this point. When you are
acting in a constructive manner and you call forth
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 459
the energy to go forth to a certain objective, your at­
tention is demanded out here in your activity of the
world. Then, charge your Higher Mental Body to
keep that energy pouring until it is accomplished.
Each time you have a few moments, turn your atten­
tion back to your objective and let the energy from
your Presence flow into it. There is not one thing on
the face of this earth which you could not achieve
^quickly. There is not one of you in the room who
could not do it.
Beloved ones, observe the Chart please and see the
Great Presence of Life! Think how absurd it is for
any human being to actually feel weak, exhausted or
feel inability for any accomplishment. Think of it!
Then how does the form feel those limitations? Be­
cause it has accepted limitations of the appearance
world so long. Mankind has charged the world with
the acceptance of limitations of every conceivable
kind; but with your attention held to the “ Mighty I
AM Presence,’’ and understanding that your atten­
tion upon an objective in your accomplishment is the
imperative need; then you reverse all conditions of
the accumulation of the past. You hold them in obedi­
ence, if they have not been consumed, and let the
energy flow forth to do its work.
I am explaining this to you tonight, so you might
not feel that just because you may have human ac­
cumulation or that you might see limitations; you
460 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
still cannot acquire this Perfection and Freedom. It is
absolutely within your reach! Therefore, beloved
ones, tonight in My earnest sincere effort to assist
you, will you be kind enough to accept My Assistance?
Let this Mighty Power of Energy operate within your
world of action; to produce the results which your
hearts crave and which We wish to help you attain.
Therefore, in the Glory of your Great Presence of
all Life, I say to you tonight: stand glorified in the
Mighty Activity of your own “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” and accept—first your Presence; then all the
Ascended Masters and Great Beings of Light wish to
give you; and you cannot imagine what They will
do, if you are earnest and sincere. Accept the fulness
of the Power of your Presence and the Assistance of
the Great Ones! Go forth! feeling the full Victory
of the Light acting within you and your world! and
you will find that you can lay your hand upon a dis­
cordant spot in your body; the pain will cease at once
and the condition will dissolve and disappear. The
Current which flows through your hand will produce
Perfection for you. It is Light, which dissolves every­
thing unlike Itself.
If mankind but understood that, every human
being would become a Mighty Power and Focus of
healing wherever he went; and even the Radiance
poured forth from him would heal where it passed.
Such is the Joy and the Perfection which is before you.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 461
In the fulness of the Light which I represent, I
call Its full Power into action; to clothe you forever
in Its Transcendent Activity; and hold you forever
Victorious in Its Light, unto your Ascension and
Eternal Freedom. I thank you.
T H E G O D D E S S O F L I B E R T Y ’ S
D I S C O U R S E
NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK
OCTOBER 13, 1937
FI BELO VED America how great is Your
Mission! Oh people of America, how great
is the service which you have rendered and
are still to render!
The Messengers have been promised, that they
should know who “ I AM .” I prefer, for the Service
which I must render, that you know Me as the God­
dess of Liberty. I am the One Who gave Washington
his wondrous vision. Then do you wonder why My
Symbol rests in your harbor? Not by chance I assure
you. Can you, for a moment, with Me feel what that
has done for the world? My Symbol which stands in
your harbor! There is never a boat comes in or goes
out of your harbor, that the hearts of those on board
do not feel what that means.
Think of it, Oh beloved ones of America! you have
your problems. Yet they are not a fragment in com­
parison to what is acting in Europe and the Orient
today. Do you not see and understand? I am sure
most of the earnest students do. Oh, that all America
might understand what this means; what This Under-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 463
standing of the Presence and Its Mighty Call for the
Freedom of America, means.
Knowing what has threatened America from its
inception, then do you wonder why Saint Germain
has worked with such Love and Determination to
protect America! I asked Him never to mention My
Part in this Activity, until the Cosmic Light began
to render Its Service to the earth. Then, I too would
render My Service to America.
Knowing with certainty that the vision given Wash­
ington, would be fulfilled, if help did not come to the
American people; Beloved Saint Germain has aroused
in the hearts of the people the desire which has
brought forth that call so deep, from hearts so earnest.
You beloved students do not know it, but there are
thousands of people in America today, beside the “ I
AM ” Students, who are calling with hearts so filled
with Love; because they have felt the threatening
condition to America as never before. They have felt
the under-current of destructive activities which have
tried to find a foothold in America. Today, how
thankful and grateful you can be, that enough has
been done, to give one the greatest encouragement
to release the power for its completion.
The Ascended Masters and We, from Our stand­
point of Freedom, knew the Victory was certain from
the beginning; providing We could depend upon
enough of mankind. Unless We can have the call to
464 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
the Presence by enough people in America, We can­
not tell what human beings are going to do. That is
why, when the mass are taken into consideration, a
correct absolutely certain prophecy cannot be given;
because mankind change so often; but where it con­
cerns a Great Cosmic Activity, We can tell you to the
minutest detail everything which will take place in
the whole activity. When We have enough of the
people of America anchored in their Great Presence,
then We can tell you exactly what will take place in
your America!
Today, Our Gratitude is very great to every ear­
nest, sincere student in America and the world; who is
calling forth so earnestly, giving Us the opportunity
to release these Great Cosmic Powers. Oh, I know
you are not quite fully conscious yet of what the past
week means to you and America! Just try to feel the
full importance of these Great Beings, Who came in
person and gave these Dictations. Through the at­
tention of the students, and of the people who might
come in contact with those Dictations being drawn
to these Great Cosmic Beings; it makes it possible for
Them to also render a service for America, which
They would so like to give.
Without your attention, these Great Ones are un­
able to render the service which is required. Without
your call They could not do it, and would not; be­
cause you are the cause of your limitations. All man-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 465
kind is the cause of the limitations which beset the
earth, even to blight upon the earth.
Dear ones, see how the discordant destructive qual­
ities, sent forth by mankind, charge the very earth
and its atmosphere. There is no other destructive
force in the Universe, but that which is created by
mankind. Then such rejoicing, as has never been
known in the history of the world, should be within
the heart of every “ I A M ” Student, who has come to
know this; and who is willing to give the needed
obedience to set himself free.
Beloved people, We in the Cosmic Service of the
Light wish to set America free and keep her free; be­
cause America is the heart of Light for the world. If
the heart ceases to beat, then the Light goes out. The
Light has almost gone out in certain parts of the
earth. Although it is expanding with great speed and
power here.
I say this to you tonight! If it had not been for
the Statue of Liberty in your harbor, New York
would not be in existence today! That is the Power
within the Symbol of Light. If it had not been for the
Christ of the Andes, South America would have been
in the condition of Spain today. The South American
people held steadfast to the Christ and could not be
shaken loose! Hence their protection! for when the
Christ vanishes from a country, their people perish.
The greatest tragedy on the face of the earth today,
466 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
is human beings who try to take from others their
faith in God. It is only by individuals’ faith in God,
that the people have not perished from the earth
already! You, today, who have been so fortunate as to
come to the Real Understanding of what the Pres­
ence of God is and means to individuals, as well asthe
world; will never know until your Ascension how
fortunate you are.
Now let us join in one Mighty Activity! I am speak­
ing to you tonight, so this may go forth to every
student in America and the world. I am calling for
their attention! May the service America needs be
rendered quickly? Unless it is rendered, you will
have much to handle. If an undesirable person should
come to your door and you let him in; well you might
have considerable difficulty in throwing him out. Soit
is today with individuals! So it is today with nations!
It is much wiser to give the protection and keep out
the undesirable, than to allow them to come and have
to throw them out afterward. Not, that it would not
be done; but think what devastation would come in
order to do it!
Therefore know this! Know the accuracy of the
vision shown Washington! for remember, until the
Ascended Masters take command of America, Wash­
ington will stand. Remember, dear ones, today you
do not know all that took place in the time of Wash­
ington, before nor since. The All-powerful Guard of
'I
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 467
Light in Its Infinite Activity, is behind the scenes. All
Infinite Power is invisible; and so it was in the Ac­
tivity which gave your America her Freedom! back
of that was the Infinite Invisible Power. Saint Ger­
main and Myself were Two of Those Powers, in­
visible to the human sight.
Tonight, I am saying this to draw you closer, and
if possible, try to have you feel more powerfully the
Service that Saint Germain has rendered and is
rendering to America. Oh beloved ones, you will
never know until your Ascension, what He means to
the world; and how in those former centuries in
Europe, He tried in every conceivable way to help
the people to see; but the ignorance and arrogance
of the human is terrible to behold.
Today, beloved students, I say to you for your
eternal individual blessing, no matter how great the
Powers that you call forth; no matter how great the
attainment that you reach, whatever in God’s Name
you do, be humble! There is not anything so great
in the world as to be humble, before this Great Pres­
ence and Power, your “ Mighty I AM ” ; firm and
strong against human suggestions, but humble as a
babe before the Great Presence, which gives you Life.
Then, Its Powers will flow in, through you and out
into your world, to bless you and all with whom you
come in contact.
Oh do not, do not be dismayed, beloved ones! We
468 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
see all that is going on in your government! and I say
to you this Mighty Power of Infinite Light, shall pro­
tect your America against all human beings on earth.
That Power is Light! It shall take Its Dominion on
earth! and those destructive powers shall not come
into America.
Not so long ago in your blessed city of New York,
there was anchored an activity which would have
destroyed the earth; because it was the head of the
sinister force whose body rests over Europe. During
the class when you see the picture of the gas belts,
you will observe the outline of which I am speaking.
Beloved ones, your encouragement today is in the
release of the Cosmic Light, which has made it pos­
sible for the Ascended Masters to use the Power of
the Light Rays; to hold in abeyance those destructive
powers which would try to gain their Dominion here.
Already the activity of the Cosmic Light has begun;
and there will be watchful care over America. Every
destructive force that attempts to act will find itself
disappointed!
Remember, beloved ones, continue your earnest
mighty call to God, your “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
which enables these Powers to act. Tonight, allow Me
to remind you again of those blessed children, Rex
and Bob, Nada and Pearl; who so recently were in
bodies of limitation like yours today. They are render­
ing this Cosmic Service to America. Remember what
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 469
the Divine Director said in the close of the Magic
Presence: “ I shall give you bodies as have not before
been known on earth.” It is how They were able to
enter into this Great Activity at once, and why today
They are rendering a service to America which is
tremendous. Those four children are going every
way, watching and guarding.
There will come greater and greater Assistance,
when the Great Cosmic Light has made it possible,
for the destructive qualities of human beings to be
turned back upon themselves; then the old statement
you have heard so long will find its action: “ Evil
destroys itself.” Sometimes it has been a long time
doing it. Now, in the Power and Activity of the Great
Cosmic Light, it shall do its work quickly.
Beloved ones, you have heard the Messengers plead,
and plead, and plead, with mankind for the need of
harmony in their feelings. They told you the day
would come, when the destructive qualities sent out
by mankind would immediately return upon them
for redemption. That time is approaching so rapidly,
dear people. Oh, that I might reach the ear of every
blessed student in America today; who would listen
to Me and receive the blessing which These Words
would bring to them.
Dear people, no longer can the Messengers plead
with mankind. The Instruction is before them. Read,
Oh, read beloved ones, the magnificent things which
470 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
Saint Germain and the other Ascended Ones have
brought forth for your use and blessing. The timehas
come, when individuals who wish the Light m
ust
maintain Self-control; and stop sending out from
their feeling world any discordant thing. Unless they
do, they will be compelled to meet those qualities
returning to them.
This is the Power of the Cosmic Light. It is not the
wish of an individual; but the Power of the Cosmic
Light is compelling mankind to draw back to them
what they have sent out. Then do you not see, beloved
people of earth, the magnificent thing that Saint Ger­
main has done, in calling forth to mankind the Power
and use of the Violet Consuming Flame, which makes
it possible for them to be free today, in return for
those qualities that mankind have sent out?
Do you not see, beloved ones, the Great Wisdom
and Mercy of that Blessed One who brought This Un­
derstanding to mankind? So many have passed by the
opportunity to know, to understand and to use these
things and give obedience as He has asked. It would
make them impervious to discordant things; for they
must return and mankind must meet the qualities
they have sent out.
Oh, do you not see how great It is? How He,
through the Messengers, pleads with mankind with
all their great Love and kindness to give obedience
to this Great Law; apply it and understand that the
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 47i
imperative thing is harmony maintained in the feel­
ings; that the Power of the Presence might flow
through and give this protection? Today, when it is
coming to the time that mankind is going to need it
tremendously, the Protection and Assistance would
be there.
Oh, how mankind will plead, when they had the
opportunity and did not take it; to understand and
apply these Great Laws for the Assistance of Beloved
America and themselves! While there is no death,
beloved ones, mankind in embodiment has cut off
opportunity after opportunity which would have
brought such great blessings to them.
I say to you tonight, the blessed ones who have
been drawn into this Great Light and have turned
aside; how they will cry out for mercy because of a
lost opportunity. This is why, beloved ones, the Mes­
sengers have pled for harmony and prompted the
people to stand by their own God Presence the
“ Mighty I AM .” They have asked nothing else. They
have been so earnest, honest and sincere in the Out­
pouring of the Great Love from their Presence; and
now have the Love from thousands today, a thing
unheard of in the history of the world.
Remember, beloved ones, your Beloved Ascended
Master, Jesus, was the only One who held such In­
finite Love from the world. Your national characters
have had great Love from mankind. I tell you, that in
472 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
Europe and India today, secretly in the hearts of
thousands of people, there is the greatest Love for
Washington and Lincoln. From those people who
have read of it, their Love flows out and has since the
liberty of America began.
Therefore, dear ones, remember that it is only
through the Out-pouring of Love, kindliness and
blessing, that mankind open their doors to the Power
of their Mighty I AM Presence” to set them free.
They cannot have that Freedom unless they know
where and how to call. Today the ‘‘I AM ” Students
know that, very definitely. Some do not yet have the
full confidence in their own ability; but that will
come as sure as you are sitting before Me tonight.
Remember, the Great Master from Venus said
there were thousands in America who would awaken
suddenly, as from a sleep. It is being done and will
continue to be done, by the thousands in the months
ahead. Have courage, Oh beloved ones, to go on, and
on, in your great call and do not accept the appear­
ance world any longer. Remember the height, if you
permit Me to use that term, of the destructive forces,
or the apex has been reached and passed. Therefore,
with a speed a thousand times greater than they
gained their apex, will they recede and lose their
power.
Never before has the Cosmic Light come to the
assistance of mankind. It bears repeating, because I
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 473
am sure many do not understand what is meant by
the Cosmic Light. It is the consciously projected Ac­
tivity, from the Heart of the Great Intelligence Who
governs this system of worlds, which the Messengers
have brought to you as the Great Central Sun; that is
the Power from whence comes the Cosmic Light to
the earth. It is consciously projected by those Great
Beings there.
Therefore, you see it is not something atmospheric.
While it does act within the atmosphere, yet it is di­
rected by a Mighty Intelligence and that is what I am
sure many have not been aware of; and it is why the
Cosmic Light may not be denied. All humanity, all
the pleading of humanity, beloved ones, makes no
difference with that Great Light.
Perhaps it would be well for Me to remind you,
how mankind has ignored such opportunities in the
past, when Great Blessings have been offered them.
Take for instance, for your instruction tonight, in the
civilization of the buried cities of the Amazon re­
corded in Unveiled Mysteries. They were warned five
years before the cataclysm came. After one year had
passed, then two years had passed and nothing oc­
curred; the human qualities began to stir within
them and they said it is all a mistake. They became
more and more brazen. When the five years were up
and everything became still; the hearts of those
people, who had denied the Wisdom which gave them
474 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
warning, felt that fear clutch them; and before dawn
the great destructive powers had done their work.
Today, mankind is facing far worse conditions.
When We give you encouragement for your accom­
plishment; please take it as encouragement! Make
more earnest dynamic efforts in your call! That is
why We give you encouragement, not so you can
relax your call, power or energy for that which is
required! If you do, then God help mankind.
The Power, the Intelligence, the Assurance isyours
today; is here for your use, Oh people of America!
You can have it if you will! We cannot force it upon
you! So dear people, if there are those of your ac­
quaintances who cannot accept This Understanding
which Saint Germain has brought forth; at least plead
with them for the need of protection to America,
their country. That is the great need today.
You, who have gained your present position in the
understanding of your Presence, can never lose it in
the world! Every inch you gain in the understanding
of your “ Mighty I AM Presence” and Its application
is anchored in you forever. You are not only giving
yourself temporary release, but you are building
Freedom for eternity.
The only Intelligence in the Universe, the only
Presence, the only Power, the only Place where Free­
dom can come from is God, your own “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” Feel it, beloved ones! Then call to the
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 475
“Mighty I AM Presence” of every human being in
your city; every one in America, to take command of
every mind and body, hold Its Dominion and pro­
duce Its Perfection. I say to you, anyone of you sit­
ting here tonight: who of you can tell Me this hour,
what you can do in fifteen minutes of earnest call,
acknowledging the Power of your Presence acting!
In your return from this meeting tonight, before
you retire anyone could stand on the floor in the
silence of his chamber, with no one present and in a
low firm voice call to your Presence: “ ‘Mighty I AM
Presence’ take command of every mind and body in
New York tonight! Hold your Dominion and produce
Your Perfection in the mind, body, world and ac­
tivity of everyone in America.” Who of you shall tell
Me what Power might go forth to bless your city and
its people. Dear people, you cannot imagine what any­
one of your sincere calls would do. How many might
awaken in the morning, feeling within their hearts
the fulness of this Power and the answer to your
call. Then, as that began to reach out, individuals
would come in contact with someone, the books or
something, which would hold their attention upon
this Presence and the requirement of success.
I urge you, do all you can, beloved ones, in your
private calls before you retire; as well as your won­
drous Group work, which you have been doing. Oh,
let no discord of any person, place, condition or thing
476 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
affect you in any manner. Do not have opinions about
anything. Go forth in your own God Presence and let
Its Power flow through you into your world to
protect it, and then out to bless mankind. What do
you think it would do?
You, who are sitting here, call on the Law of For­
giveness for all the mistakes of the people of New
York. Then call down the Powers of Light and Love
and Blessing upon all of them. Think what that
service would do. The unhappy thing which mankind
has experienced is because they do not see these Great
Inner Forces acting. It seems incredible that it could
be going forth and doing such a Mighty Work; but
I assure you dear ones, because you do not see its
outer manifestation, is no reason why that Inner
Power you call forth is not acting to do Its Perfect
Work.
Oh, beloved ones, do all you can, won’t you? That
is all anyone can do; but feel it tonight. I am so grate­
ful to be able to call your attention to it. My Part is
in giving you the Courage and Strength, to make a
firmer, more determined call than ever; for the re­
lease of that Mighty Power to go forth among man­
kind and do Its Mighty Work! Feel it, dear ones!
Many, many of you who are here will live to
see the greatest transformation ever known on earth.
The Light of God, your “ Mighty I AM Presence” is
taking Its Dominion upon the earth.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 477
In closing, I want to say to you, who have been
rendering this wondrous service; when you see how
great it has been you will rejoice through eternity.
Because there is no trumpeting, because there is no
outer appearance as you think; does not mean the
work is not being accomplished. Those Great Ones
see and know the service which you are rendering
and hence, have come to your rescue. Will you allow
Them and urge others of humanity to allow Them,
to complete the Victory? I thank you.
D A V I D L L O Y D ’ S D I S C O U R S E
CLEVELAND, OHIO
MARCH 4, 1938
B
ELO VED students of Cleveland, blessed Group
Leaders and those visiting here: Our Love and
Gratitude are so great tonight, for the oppor­
tunity to speak into your feeling world that which
We know.
You have been quite willing to take Our Word for
this until such time as you could prove it for your­
selves; but I say to you, because of your Love, your
gratitude and your willingness to stand for the Light;
the Great Divine Director has prepared the way for
all students throughout America. As the requirement
comes about, certain Ones of Us come forth. Through
these dictated Words, which carry the Qualities you
need, We charge them into your feeling world. They
bring to you the greatest possible Blessing and Free­
dom, right in the immediate future.
Tonight, as never before in your Life, understand
that you are not dealing with any human being’s opin­
ion, imagination nor quality! You are dealing with
the Quality of Perfection in your own Life, which the
Ascended Masters represent. You might wonder why
They represent your Life. Because your Life and
478
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 479
Their Life is the One Life in Its Purity and Perfec­
tion before, Its Light touches the individual’s human
form. Your Life and Their Perfected Life is One!
because your Life is Perfect. Therefore, you will see
how logical and practical all this is in the Activity
of your own Law of Life. We are talking of nothing
else. The Ascended Masters never refer to anything
else but the activity of your own Life, of which They
are the conscious Ascended Perfection.
Your Life as It stands today in your Presence and
your Higher Mental Body is Perfect; but notice, how
different that current or Stream of Life and Energy is,
in comparison to the Ascended Masters; because you
have not yet ascended! The Ascended Masters have
accomplished the journey and produced the Perfec­
tion—the purification of the human structure.
We have never touched upon this point before; but
what do you think is the reason for the purification
of the human structure, the human form? Because,
today you are the accumulation of all that has been in
the past. Notice! You are the accumulation of all
that has been in the past! Therefore, your physical
structure, your feeling world in the activity of its
purification, is the drawing forth of all accumulation
of imperfection, into the Violet Consuming Flame.
The Perfection in the Stream of Life is being drawn
back into the Presence. That is what is contained in
the Circle of Light about the Presence. It is your
480 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
goodness. Then, you have drawn the imperfection
from all past conditions into the Violet Flame and
all your Perfection into the Presence. Then, you
as a human form stand quite free. In the call to your
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” you allow the Perfecting
Activity from the Presence to release. It starts by the
use of the Violet Consuming Flame in Its Activity of
purification. As you call the intensified energy from
your Presence down into action, the human meets
the Divine. The Divine, being the Light, knows no
opposition and absorbs the human into Itself; when
the Perfecting Activity in preparation for the As­
cension takes place. It is perfectly natural—perfectly
practical.
Beloved ones, as you come into the fulness of this
Understanding, you will see It is absolutely practical,
the most practical thing in the understanding of man­
kind. This is why the attention held to the Ascension
is imperative. It does not make a particle of difference
whether you make the Ascension today, tomorrow or
in the next embodiment; but it is most imperative to
begin! That is the point which is vital to you and to
everyone.
There is a difference between the Ascension actu­
ally taking place and your attention through your
consciousness held upon it. Dear ones, the Ascension
takes place by the natural Law of your Life, through
your feeling when your attention is held to the Pres-
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 481
ence. As the Messengers have said quite often, the
moment your attention goes to the Presence in your
feeling world—knowing It is there above you, and
that from It you receive Life, Intelligence, Energy
and Activity—that moment your Ascension has
begun. Do you see? Actually, physically It has begun.
Is it not one of the most wonderful things to know?
It sounds so simple. It does not require much effort,
to give attention to this Presence of all Life, the
“Mighty I AM ” ; but Oh dear ones, do you realize
what it means? Every moment given to that Blessed
Presence of Life, your Ascension, your purification
is going on. Do not let one thought, one feeling, one
activity of your physical body from that moment
henceforth, cause you to accept for one moment that
your purification and activity is not going on. The
quickest way is to love your Presence intensely.
Beloved ones, I tell you when you really begin to
give your attention to your Presence with earnest
determined intensity; there is nothing that can stand
before you, when you are reaching out to your Pres­
ence. Its wondrous, Infinite Power of Light is enfold­
ing you. It passes in and through you and every atom
of your body—every cell.
Dear ones, you will remember that at the base of
your brain is the distributing point for this greatly
intensified Light, as it comes into your body, into
every cell. In your call to the Presence, the intensified-
482 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
tion of that Light also acts, through every cell of your
body.
Take for instance this illustration: As you are
sitting listening to Me, Our attention, your attention
and My attention is on that Perfecting “ I AM Pres­
ence,” the Ascended Being, the Perfection of Life.
Therefore, in your feeling is the acceptance of It.
Every moment Our attention is upon the “I AM
Presence” and Those Great Perfected Ones, the rais­
ing process is going on. The expansion of the Points
of Light within every cell of the body is going on. It
is a definite permanent powerful activity which no
human will can change.
Remember, once your activity and understanding
of metaphysics was a temporary thing; because you
did not understand consciously and in your feeling,
that your “ Mighty I AM ,” the Presence of all Life,
was above you and giving you Life in the physical
body. You prayed to and thought of God as an Omni­
presence; but when you know this Presence is above
you; and know it in your feeling, it is a vastly differ­
ent thing. The Presence of all Life, of all Perfection
beats your heart. Instead of the feeling reaching out
wondering where is that connection, where is my
Stream of Life connected, you know definitely it is
there; the same as you see the Light here in these
fixtures.
Your “ Mighty I AM Presence” is above you! Its
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 483
Ray of Light and Energy flowing into your body and
anchoring within your physical heart, is eternal proof
that above you is the Perfection of Life. Because
mankind has forgotten It, they have only had frag­
mentary results through their prayers and through
their calls. There was no intense feeling released. The
prayer which was answered had to be charged with in­
tense feeling; but mankind did not know why the
answer was given. When your calls were answered
you said: “yes, God granted my prayer, but you did
not know the means or operation by which it was
done.” You sent forth the call and saw its effect, but
there was no conscious knowledge of the operation.
Today, in this magnificent Activity which Saint
Germain has brought forth, you see the magnificent
operation of the Law. As you gaze upon that Chart,
you see, feel and know the exact detail of the ac­
complishment. You know the activity which is taking
place within you and the Great Presence of all Life
to produce these results. It was just the same with
you as a child. Of course there have been some prod­
igies who were able to do this—but if you did not
take your pencil in school and work out your mathe­
matical problems, you did not retain the knowledge.
That was the way you came to the solution of your
problem. Some could do that mentally—they were
very few.
Today, you are in the same condition. When pray-
484 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
ing to God as an Omni-presence, you do not have the
feeling and release of the energy; that you do when
you know Its Individualized Presence is there before
you, as shown in the Chart.
I was in the same position through My own actual
experience. So recently I was in your midst. Dear
ones, do you not see what a short time ago, I stood in
a limited body like yours; and but for this blessed
one before you, I should have still been there? Do you
wonder that My Love and Gratitude are boundless
to him? I know that it was His Presence which gave
Me the Assistance; but if his physical body had not
been there, I would not have had the Ascension.
Let us come now to a very vital point. As the world
and the students stand today, he is a Great Focus of
Light in their midst. He probably would not like Me
to say this, but then it must come forth. You have
noticed that where the Messengers’ bodies are, there
is a most powerful Focus of the Light. There is a
reason for that. In your Groups, you call forth won­
derful marvelous Light and Energy, because of your
sincerity; but in the preparation for this Work, the
Presence has made the Messengers a tremendous
Focus of the Light. While I do not prophesy this, it
should not surprise Me at any time, during the in­
tensity of the class—and especially during the last five,
six or seven days—to see the Light become so powerful
that It would be visible to anyone’s physical sight.
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 485
The world is bound to have the Truth of this Light.
This is a secret. Shall I tell you what I am doing?
I am calling to the Authority of Life, that before
thousands of people in America, one or more Ascen­
sions shall take place as It occurred with Me; that
the whole world may know the Truth which this
good brother speaks forth. By the Power of Infinite
Light, I shall see it is done! or move the heavens out
of place. I am determined that the world shall know
the Truth which he speaks to them!
These unfortunate creatures who try to spread
falsehoods concerning him or this Work, may heaven
help them! When they say, that these books are un­
true and that some silly human being supplied the
books from which this information came; it is in­
sanity and ridiculous. Where did the Information
come from, which was dictated before thousands of
people in California and elsewhere? Did that come
from any book written at present? You know It did
not! So, I tell you that I shall never stop, until every­
one of those vicious tongues is silenced against the
Messengers and this Work. I am getting more Au­
thority each day!
Dear ones, do not think that I join the vicious
throng. Not at all! but I am tremendously positive!
I know the Law, beloved ones! Remember, precious
people, that if you are dealing with a vicious force,
you must wield a greater amount of energy than the
486 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
vicious individual; or that vicious individual will
sweep you under. You are dealing with Law! You are
dealing with vibration and energy! as the blessed
Lotus has said so many times.
Remember, your old sympathy, beloved ones, is a
bygone thing, when we come into this Understand­
ing. Oh, once I had it too; and as I am compelled to
look into the Life and heart of this blessed one; there
too was limitless sympathy one day, but it is no more.
It has now risen into the Divine Compassion which
gives help to his worst enemy, so-called, if that may
be; but at the same time he is surrounded by and
wields a positive force which will repel and destroy
any destructive force sent against him. That is what
everyone of you precious ones must be able to do.
You are doing no wrong, you are only protecting
yourselves. You, who are sincere to the Light, should
you be swept under and out of your body; because
you would not straighten your spines, stand up and
send it back? Remember, there is no viciousness, there
is no wrong in that; for you must protect yourself.
The cunning claws of the sinister force try to bring
discredit on this Work, which is the most magnificent
that ever came forth on earth to mankind or ever
will; and I know what I am talking about! When I
had the assistance from this blessed Being to lift Me to
My Eternal Freedom, and I stand here a living wit­
ness before the world of its truth; let no puny intellect
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 487
in the outer world say: that did not occur! when I am
the person who accomplished it! Is that not insane
silly nonsense, for any human being in the world to
say my Ascension did not occur; when I am the Being
here who received the blessing? Possibly you do not
see Me, but I am here just as tangible as you are;
make no mistake about it!
Therefore, I want you blessed ones to be so firm
and so prompted, so alert in your feeling, that never
again will one solitary disturbance touch your world.
Stand in the Power and Light of your Presence! Let It
pour forth and dissolve everything that tries to touch
It.
One of the most magnificent points which the Mes­
sengers have brought forth is in the great intensified
feeling, more and more powerful; that when you call
your Presence into action what is it you call forth?
Light! All the Power of your Presence is contained
within that Power of Light. Therefore, the first
fundamental you are calling forth from your Pres­
ence is Light and It knows no opposition!
Will you think of that, beloved ones, in every call
and all application you make? Remember! This help
I am calling forth from my Presence is Light! It knows
no opposition! Therefore, It proceeds to the objective
for which I call it forth. The Victory is accomplished!
because there is not one thing in all human creation
which tries to battle the Light.
488 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGHT
Precious ones, understand this one single point!
T ry to grasp it! I am endeavoring to give you thefull
powerful feeling of it sustained. Try to feel that you
cannot make application of any kind from the small­
est to the greatest call, that your answer does not com
e
forth through this Power of Light. Knowing this
Light is All-powerful, for It knows no opposite; then
how could It fail to accomplish the thing whereunto
it is sent?
You are the director, because you have the author­
ity. So far as your understanding permits out here,
you know the things which need to be corrected and
adjusted. Suppose as an illustration, you need a
greater supply of money than you have today. Pre­
viously, you thought you had to perform certain
mechanical action or certain intellectual service, a
certain collective service, in order to have the use of
that, did you not? All the time your Presence, the
Treasure-house of the Universe, was holding the
Limitless Supply for you which you required.
You have believed that your supply was out here,
because it seemed to come through a physical source.
I tell you to reverse the situation! and I will show
you why, definitely. In the first place, everything that
is in physical form today came through that Stream
of Light and Energy into outer manifestation; first
as an idea. If it was a building, first a blue print, then
a building came into being. Your bodies, how about
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 489
that? You have them, how did they get here? That is
the point. I wondered about that many times Myself.
Because there is a blue print inside of every one’s
body which is its Light Pattern. That is how this
structure got here. If it had not been for the points
of Light in every cell of your body, which are your
Light pattern of your human form; there would be
no human form here—not one! Therefore, you see
where we get more and more practical.
Now as to the building: this building for instance,
came out of an idea and into a blue print. Then the
substance in the outer world was brought together
and here it is. Now your bodies: first, there came a
little point of Light in your heart. That was the first
point where the substance began to gather. Then,
your heart came in the fulness of its shape and a
physical being came into existence. That point of
Light within your heart was where the Presence
anchored Its tiny Unfed Flame to build and draw
together this substance.
With your building, the substance was out here in
form all ready, but yours was not. Now notice! the
substance of your body was what you sometimes call
the Universal Substance which is in the atmosphere
about you; as well as in the mother, and in the charge
that the angel, which is usually present, releases.
Therefore around your heart, around that point of
Light—first in the heart, was gathered the substance
4go ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
which made the heart become the fulness of its action
in complete form. Then, the Light through the heart
begins to gather more substance and the body of the
infant comes into being. It is the most practical thing
in the whole world, but mankind have not understood
this Law of Light.
You know how you take things for granted? I did
too, but I have done a lot of thinking since My As­
cension, a lot of investigating; and if you ever in your
Life knew what happiness was, wait until you come
over here and We take an investigating trip. Wait
until you come into your Ascension! If you do not
make it and you cast off that body, still We will have
a good time; because you will come into the Octave
of Light where you belong. Then We will still have a
good time, because during that time you will go right
on in this training. When you come back again you
will be Master of those physical forms from infancy—
the most magnificent thing in the world.
I want you to realize that you have no one to thank
for this particular Assistance so much as the Great
Divine Director. That Blessed Being! even yet, I
stand in awe of Him! Sometimes, I have seen Him
begin to release the Power, until your heart almost
stands up. Today, in the requirement of the outer
world, sometimes He releases His Power to go forth
into the octave of earth. It is so powerful and so in­
tense that you just stand in awe of Him who is doing
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 491
so much. You have not heard so very much about it,
but I tell you tonight. Dear ones, one day you shall
know more about the Magnificent Work which He
has done for the students throughout America and
the world in the past six months. It has been beyond
words to describe! If you precious ones right here
knew just what has been going on in your feeling
world, you would be the happiest children on this
earth.
You do not see yet so much of the outer manifesta­
tion; but tonight, I see it from within and I tell you,
dear ones, you have every reason to be happy and re­
joice. Surely and steadily will all problems of the
outer world fail to appear, because they will cease
to be. Oh never doubt it for a moment! Go on, and
on, and on, in your mighty application, your mighty
call to this Presence. Let Its Light flow in, through
and out into your world to dissolve all problems for­
ever. Then, your call releases Its Mighty Intelligence.
In your application for the supply of money, you
have been receiving it out here as coined money or
paper money; but all the time within the Treasure-
house of your Presence this activity was going on.
Now notice! Just the same as the Light pattern
holds your human form together, just so within the
Treasure-house of your Presence, was the activity
going on which brought about conditions out here in
the world of the human octave; by which you re-
492 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
ceived the coined money or paper money, to supply
and fulfill your call.
Everything that comes into your hands out here
comes in physical manner naturally; but the supply
comes from the Treasure-house of your Presence. It
cannot come from any place else, but you have not
quite seen that. You say that it does not look as tan­
gible as the cash here in my hand; but I tell you, when
once you have grasped this idea and set it into action,
you will never know again what it is to be out of the
supply of money which you need—right in your hands
in spot cash.
You see I am getting quite American in My expres­
sion. I was an Englishman, but I love America; and
I want to tell you, I am learning to love it more every
day; because I see within the hearts of the American
people an energy, a loyalty, a call for Freedom that
only a few of our blessed people in England have to­
day. That is why I say to the American people, you
are the most fortunate of beings. I mean that! Oh, I
love our blessed people! I love all people! but I can
see where their mistakes have been, My own included.
Therefore, you are dealing with a definite Mighty
Law. Let us repeat this. When you call to your
“ Mighty I AM Presence’’ for your supply of money—
this is just one illustration—the Love, Wisdom and
Power of your Presence goes into action, through the
energy flowing out from your physical body. Your
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 493
Stream of Light and Energy goes out as radiation,
harmonizing, governing and bringing about condi­
tions, through the Wisdom of your Presence; to bring
the physical supply of money into your hands. Once
you understand that, you can never be deprived again
of the money supply you need for your happiness,
comfort and service to the Light. If your motive is
wrong, your “ Mighty I AM Presence” will not answer.
Then the human begins to claw around in the outer
world by frantic effort through fear. Therefore, when
your heart is right—I mean your feeling is right—
you
will never be deprived of a thing in the world. When
your feeling is kept harmonious, you cannot lack.
What do I mean by that? The Out-pouring of Love
and kindness regardless of what happens! You will
all come to a point where no matter what anyone says
or does concerning you or your Life, you will be
able to say: “ Well, God forgive them and bless them,”
and go on about your business; because human
vicious gossip, human discord, human appearances
have no power. Oh, if I could only have known that,
when I was a lad!
Precious young people, if you would only under­
stand and take hold of this Law! Your Life could be
one of Beauty and Perfection. You would become in­
vincible by applying this Law just three times a day;
because Life has waited so long to receive your recog­
nition. Mankind has used Life’s energy so long, with
494 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
not a single thought or consideration of gratitude and
thanks for it.
May I digress just a moment to call your attention
to the healing Power? If there are any in the room
needing healing or assistance, please open your hearts
to the Mighty Healing Currents in this room; that
you may have any discord in your feeling world dis­
missed forever. Let this Power of Light flood through
you and give you Its Perfect Health, Strength and
Happiness, which nothing can ever mar again.
You see mankind has reversed almost every activity.
The marvel of it is, that people have had as much
comfort as they have; because of the reversal of al­
most all the conditions of their lives. You know that in
the present method of photography, you actually
take the picture upside down? That is because of the
conditions mankind has generated. Watch what I tell
you in the near future! Your cameras will take your
pictures right side up. Watch it! The whole condi­
tion of human Life is being turned right side up. You
watch it! You will see the proof of these words; be­
cause mankind is giving their attention once again to
the Source of all Life where it belongs, beloved ones.
I hope that there is no one of you in a hurry to­
night. I think I could go on all night; but blessed
ones, the Radiation is so lovely and you are receiving
into your feeling world this great Radiance so power­
fully; that I wish we could go on and on. Oh, dear
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 495
ones, feel with Me the Truth of your Freedom of
Life, and even of your Ascension! Even, if you did not
make it in this body, what does it matter? You know
you are sure of it the next time! Is that not something?
My dear people, whether you succeed in this body
or not, know that in the next one, you will be free
from birth and rebirth; and all the limitations which
mankind have lived through in all embodiments.
There is nothing on earth so tremendous.
You cannot imagine what it means to have so re­
cently gained My Freedom. Now, I come among you
and see the tremendous call in your hearts and your
feelings. Good heavens, I have seen some of these
blessed ones reaching out with a power that would
mow down anything, and it will! So keep it up, dear
ones. Keep that magnificent power and energy going
forth and do not let anything mar your happiness.
Beloved ones, it is the most wonderful thing, when
people are sometimes unkind or say unkind things,
to just be silent. They may think you have no back­
bone; but in that silence, your back-bone is getting
stronger every minute. It is when you let the other
feeling in, that your back-bone gets weak, but you
do not know it. It is strong for a moment, but Oh,
heaven help the reaction! That is just what is going
on in mankind all the time. You are terribly strong
when the irritation is on; but what do you feel like
when it is over? What happens then?
496 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
I tell you, blessed ones, it is My privilege to see
these actions; and as I move about among the stu­
dents endeavoring to give assistance, I see these ac­
tivities going on just as clearly and definitely as you
see each other right now. Do you understand, be­
loved ones, you never see anything outside your own
physical octave? I mean by that, your Inner All-
Seeing-Eye is not active this time, up to now. Oh, that
has nothing to do with the psychic sight or spiritual­
ism! I am not talking about that. I am talking about
the real All-Seeing Eye of God Activity in your own
being, which the Messenger has in action.
Do you realize that We, Who are free from the
limitations of the human atomic structure, see all ac­
tivities; even within your bodies; just as definitely
as you look upon the map and see the highways and
railroads and all that. Do you not see that? We see
everything—the activity of your physical bodies; the
circulation, the nerve fluid and all. We look into it
and see its action, where the spots of imperfection are
and all that kind of thing. You might say to Me: “Well
if that be the case you had better get busy on some of
us.” Only too well would I like to get busy, but that
would do you no good. I could give you temporary
relief in an instant; but what good would that do?
The next day, you would want Me to do it again.
Do you not see, precious ones, how great has been
the Wisdom of Saint Germain, when He keeps turn-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 497
ing you back, and back, and back, to your own
“ Mighty I AM Presence”—your own Great Presence
of Life? Every Victory you gain in the call to your
Presence, becomes a permanently sustained activity,
so discord cannot again take place in your Life. Do
you not see why you must make your own application?
Oh, how We would love to say: “ presto” and it would
be done, but that cannot be! Life will not permit it.
Think of Me, when the Great Master in India told
Me what to do. Think how fragmentary the informa­
tion was! I marvel yet, that I had the courage to stick
it out.—The only thing He said to Me was: “ On a
great mountain in North America, you will find a
man with a ‘Crystal Cup.’ When you have found that
man, you will have found the one who can assist you
to the Ascension.” The curious thing about it was,
it never occurred to Me not to believe it. When I see
the doubt in people today, the strange thing about it
is, that it never occurred to Me to doubt Him. When I
got so weary in the search, I thought it was no use
even then, there was not a feeling or doubt in My
mind or feeling world. It is a miracle so-called.
Beloved ones, My Radiation and experience can
help you and give you the strength that is necessary
to stand like dynamite in and with your Presence
through your call. There is not a thing in the world
that can stand between you and your accomplish­
ment, not one thing—I know it definitely.
498 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
Beloved ones, take your firm stand from this hour
forth-absolutely unyielding! Do not be bothered
whether there is an appearance or not in the full
answer to your call. Once you have started that call,
stick to it! knowing the Power of Light is released
to accomplish it; and the Light knows no opposition.
Let Me tell you, the greatest ease and rest will fill your
being, if you will know, even while your attention
is on outer things for the moment, that this Power of
Light is going on; acting to perform the service you
require. Every time you make a call concerning prob­
lems of supply or anything, finish it by calling the
Presence to sustain it. Then Its Activity continues
to go on. It does not mean that you do not have to
make your application again. Every time you have a
few moments, even if it is not something pressing or
urgent; every time your attention goes back on it,
release your call again. Then go on about your busi­
ness. I tell you dear ones, it is necessary to make the
second call; because the outer activity of your being
has been so prone to accept the appearance world. If
you do not keep it reminded of the Activity which
is going on, it will immediately go back to accepting
the appearance world which says it could not be.
That is where the outer and Inner part of you get into
an argument. You know how many times it has done
it.
Through the old idea, when you were supposed to
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 499
claim what you wanted—many activities of meta­
physics said: you must claim and accept that you
already have the money. The outer self or intellect
would say: “ Well where is it’’? Because it is the
power of your attention upon the appearance world
which is so limited. If that charged energy continues
to act, you will still be limited; so you must reverse
it. You must take your stand that the appearance
world is not true.
What makes the appearance world of human dis­
cord and limitations? Certainly the Presence did not.
It is the accumulation of discord and limitation gen­
erated in the feelings of mankind. You might say to
Me: “ Well does all the appearance world carry the
power of imperfection” ? Yes, most of it! I mean by
that, if you saw the feeling back of things in the
outer world, you would find that the same human
limitation is there. This is why Saint Germain in His
Great Wisdom has said to mankind: “ refuse accept­
ance of the appearance world” ! because the vast ma­
jority of it is but human creation. It is not perfection
in itself! Neither is it eternal!
If your bodies were the fulness of the Christ, or
God, the “ Mighty I A M ” which is anchored within
you; they would be Perfect Bodies, would they not?
Then, what makes them imperfect? The accumula­
tion of mankind’s discord—nothing else in the world!
Either you have generated or accepted it into your
500 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
world. There is no getting away from it; that is the
exact Truth. Therefore, when you turn square
around and look yourself right in the face and say:
Hold on here! I have been at odds long enough!
You have held the reigns; you have led me around
by your wrong ideas into all these disturbances, limi­
tations and discord. You are not going to do it any
more! Get behind me and behave yourself! ‘Mighty
I AM Presence’ You come forth! take command! pro­
duce Perfection and hold Your Dominion” ! Every
time there is the slightest question as to the Power of
the Presence say: ‘‘Stop that nonsense! Get out of
my way” !
You have no idea, beloved ones, until you begin to
feel or talk like that to your human limiting self, how
soon you will be free. You will find it just loses its
power to affect you. Then, you can say to the pain in
your body: “ Get thee hence! You have no business
here! Get out” ! and it will get. Oh, how many times
the Messenger has said that. In other words, he issued
a decree for the individual. Sometimes, when it was
very distressing he would raise his hand and say
“ Pain stop! Get out of there! ‘Mighty I AM Presence’
take command of that mind and body! Hold your
harmony there! Dissolve and consume cause and ef­
fect of this thing, and see that it does not occur
again.” The thing would stop instantly. That is your
privilege too.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 501
You are the authority over and in your body. You
are the authority in your world and what shall act
within it. If you continue in the lack of understand­
ing or the lack of acceptance of this Great Truth of
Life, then you allow the outer appearance world to
act; but if you will take a firm stand toward it and
say: “ Hold on! you do not act in my world any
more! There is only One Power acting here and that
is my Presence, my ‘Mighty I AM .’ ” Then you will
shortly find that only your Presence will be acting
there; because of your acceptance and calling It forth.
You have been urged to use the Violet Consuming
Flame. You have been shown the necessity of keeping
consumed all of your discordant creation; which
comes forth from the accumulation of the centuries.
The Ascended Masters’ Use of the Violet Consuming
Flame is magnificent and it is imperative.
There is another activity which We have not been
stressing very much; but the Messengers have always
asked all people in their classes to do it, especially in
the beginning of every class. What do you suppose
happens, when he asks the people to raise their hands
in the privacy of their rooms and say: “ ‘Mighty I AM
Presence’! charge my mind, body and world with
Your Mighty Current of Intelligent Energy; with
Your Enfolding Presence of Divine Love; with Your
Invincible All-powerful Protection; with Your Per­
fect Health, Youth and Beauty”? When you bring
502 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
your hands down and charge your mind, body and
world; my dear people, do you not see how that kept
up with definite precision would charge your world
with the Perfection of the Presence; as It met the
Violet Consuming Flame? The time would be so
short, when there would not be a single imperfection
left in your world; because this which you are charg­
ing forth is Light—Self-luminous Intelligent Sub­
stance from your Presence. Therefore, the most
Powerful Intelligence, Substance and Activity there
is in the world.
Tonight, these tremendous Qualities, full Activity
and Power are being charged into your world for
constant use. As we have progressed in the Work of
the evening, I will try and not keep you too long;
but I do want to keep you long enough, to let this
Mighty Activity do Its Perfect Work. You must have
been making some very tremendous application here;
for the Law of your Life has drawn certain people
into the room through which this Service could be
rendered tonight. I want you all to feel this, love and
bless each other as you never did in your lives; espe­
cially those who are here, because it means Freedom
to you. I wish you could see how Life is acting in Its
tremendous Perfection; how It has drawn you here
tonight for this Mighty Radiation.
I want you to know that not only the Great Divine
Director, but the Goddess of Liberty, Victory and the
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 503
Queen of Light are doing this Work tonight. There
is a definite tangible mighty Release of Currents of
Energy into this room; into and through your bodies,
and when you go forth tonight, you will have lost a
great deal of your human creation. Oh, it is marvel­
ous! You precious ones! It is so very marvelous. Oh,
what Those Great Ones are doing; because of the
great need of today! The Great Divine Director, as
I said in the beginning, sometimes is almost terrifying
in His appearance; in His Release of the Light and
Power which He is able to project. When He sets
something into action for you, it is done right then
and there. When He releases the Light things are
done right then. That is what is happening in this
room tonight.
I think many times, I hear our Betty say: “ Haven’t
you any mercy upon me”? When We begin to release
the Power It sometimes flows with considerable
speed; but our blessed Betty is usually equal to the
occasion. I am going to explain this for her comfort
tonight. Does it just sound to you like an impulse
sometimes, when We speed up in Our Speech in this
Activity? No, it is not that. We are not just trying
to see how fast Betty can go. It is because of the
charge that must be released, which sometimes seems
unreasonably rapid.
Will you please remember this point always: in
all activities that the Ascended Masters do or ask you
504 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGHT
to do, there is not one thing which has not a very
powerful definite Purpose and Reason back of it!
There are a great many who do not understand that.
The Messenger had a letter today from an indi­
vidual Group Leader in the South. He just absolutely
insists that he must put forth his own ideas. He does
not comprehend at all that the thing he needs is not
his own opinion; but the Ascended Masters’ Words
which are Cups of Their Qualities carried into his
world. Do you wonder in the great Wisdom of the
Great Divine Director, Saint Germain and the
others, that They have formulated this Group Out­
line; to hold a uniform activity all over the country.
If the blessed students really understood this point,
they would see the most Magnificent Activity in the
world; because it is not human opinion which is
needed today.
Beloved ones, as you go forth more and more, you
will see the magnificent Wisdom of Saint Germain in
everything He has brought forth; in everything He
has asked; because it is bringing tremendous mani­
festation.
In San Francisco, a tremendous Work was done in
releasing the constructive activity of mankind into
this Service of the Light. It was said that when fifty-
three percent had been reached you were near the
Victory and Goal of the Light, which is true. So in
Kansas City the fifty-three percent was accomplished.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 5«5
To the amazement of all on the last day, they found
that seven percent more had been attained, making
sixty percent in all. Beloved ones, try to make it
seventy percent here.
Dear ones, this does not mean that any of Us or you
can let down on your application; but it does mean
that you should be more firm and determined in it
than ever. You, who have been present, will remem­
ber that our blessed Harry Rogers has said to his
Group in California: “ Let us make it one hundred
and fifty-three percent.” That would be quite won­
derful dear ones, because of the need today. Remem­
ber your blessed Lotus has always called for ten times
more than you need. Let us make this great Release
of the Light, ten or twenty or fifty times more than
is actually needed. Then, the Glory of Eternal Free­
dom will come.
Try to see through your feeling with Me tonight.
Think of the privilege you blessed people have, who
have come into the acceptance of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” up to this time for instance. Think of the
privilege that is yours in calling for the Freedom of
mankind and America; the only remaining place,
dear ones, in which there is the slightest possibility
for the Freedom of mankind being accomplished.
America is the only spot today which is free enough
from the frightful charge of discord and war devasta­
tion, to let this Light come forth. Therefore, the Great
506 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
Law of Life, the Cosmic Law, chose America as the
last hope for mankind. In your call today for the Free­
dom of America, my dear people, do you not see that
your privilege is the most transcendent ever given to
mankind on earth?
In your call for the Freedom of America, how in
heaven’s name could you help but have your own
freedom? It would not be possible! Do you not see
that? It is because of your service. Oh, you do not
comprehend but so little yet of what the call for the
Freedom of America means. It is magnificent! So
today, let us rejoice as never before in the privilege
which is ours to make this call. We charge it with a
firmer determination for the Freedom of America
and for the Blessing and Freedom of every “ I AM”
Student.
The Messengers have tried to call the attention of
mankind in the different classes to what it means,
when the Messengers are present. When those classes
begin session; do you realize that every Group of
Students in America and the world is, as you call it,
pulling for the success of that class and the Freedom
of the people in that class? Do you not see, it is one
of the most magnificent things? Never in the history
of the earth was such a thing done. Never! The true
idea of Brotherly Love has started forth many times
and then disappeared. Now, it is actually being ful­
filled!
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 507
When Groups of students all over America and the
world pour forth their blessing to each other; and
call for their Financial Freedom and Ascension; if
that is not Brotherly Love, then you will never find it.
I mean that is Real. It is not just a sputtering around
in the outer world with the intellect. It means when
in those Groups, beloved ones issue these Decrees with
feeling, it is why they have done such magnificent
work in the mental and feeling world of mankind and
for yourselves.
How do you suppose it suddenly became possible
for the Divine Director to begin doing this Work for
the Students? How do you suppose it was? Because of
these Mighty Decrees going forth in the mental and
feeling world. They had dissolved and consumed
enough of the individual’s human creation, so He
could go on and finish it. In the great need today, these
people will have a greater freedom; and they will be
able to release more Power by their call to the Pres­
ence, in the Decrees which are needed now.
Do you not see that you have had the courage and
strength to stand against the world; and as the Mes­
sengers have faced this Light, stand by It! with It! and
in It! Now you are beginning to experience the Glory
which It is, and It is magnificent. Never have people
in the human octave stood up against such a vicious
vortex of human creation, which would try to deprive
them of this blessing, as this Light has experienced;
5°8 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
but that discord has no power. Sometimes individuals
are disturbed temporarily, but it really has no power!
The Light is All Authority! It is the Law of Life!
That is why the people who have been so vicious to­
ward the Messengers have no power! They are no
more than a feather in a gust of wind, insofar as harm
is concerned. So do not accept any foolishness or gos­
sip which you hear.
Dear people, let Me say to you, tonight, with all the
Love of My Heart, if I did not know better than to
have human sympathy; I certainly would have
sympathy for some of the unfortunate creatures who
have opposed this Work. They will reap such agony
as no one would ever wish to see. There is nothing
can prevent it because, they insist on doing it. To do
a thing on the spur of the moment, find it is a mistake,
then call on the Law of Forgiveness is one thing; but
when the heart is constantly beating at the intellect of
those individuals telling them they are wrong; and
the human intellect is too stubborn to believe it or
listen; then God help them ■ when they have to pay the
penalty. Now watch out! Because I am saying this,
do not let your human sympathy go out for one second
to anybody who is vicious. If you do, you will pub
yourself right into that viciousness. Human sympathy
is agreement with imperfection and that is a Divine
Law! Divine Compassion raises you up into the Oc­
tave of the Presence; and gives Assistance which you
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 509
could not imagine in your human sympathy. Then,
you keep yourself out of the condition for which you
would have human sympathy.
Watch out, dear ones! Oh, do I not know what that
means! In the sympathetic nature which was Mine, I
was fortunate indeed. I did not happen to be in a
condition where too much opportunity was offered
Me to exercise that human sympathy; and it was very
fortunate for Me. I tell you these days, you cannot
afford to let one moment’s sympathy go forth from
your hearts; because it will drag you right into the
condition where your sympathy is and make you un­
able to help. If you will say: ‘“ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence’! raise me into your Power and through your
Divine Compassion, give them such Assistance as I in
the outer could not imagine.” Then, you will have
rendered the most Perfect Service and keep yourselves
from the destructive conditions or qualities into
which, you would otherwise have drawn yourself. It
is through human sympathy that the world has drawn
itself into such deplorable conditions today.
When agitators can get the feelings of the people
stirred up and disturbed; then they have all entered
into a seething vortex of destructive action; and the
sinister force has its claw upon everyone of them.
That is why nothing in the world is ever accomplished
by agitation; because it disturbs the feeling of the
people, and they do not think clearly. It does not make
510 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
any difference, if the motive were the best in the
world. If the feelings of the people are drawn into a
condition of disturbance, antagonism, resentment or
whatever it may be concerning the conditions which
are not harmonious; then they have lost the power
for permanent achievement.
That is why the only thing, which can correct con­
ditions in the world today, is enough individuals
charging these Mighty Decrees into the mental and
feeling world of mankind. These Decrees go forth
like great waves, sweeping everywhere and touching
the feeling of people; who do not even imagine such
a thing as this Understanding exists in the world. As
that Great Wave goes forth, touching the mental and
feeling world of mankind, all of a sudden someone
calls their attention to this Wondrous Knowledge.
Then, they say: “ There it is! That is what I have been
looking for all my Life.” Thousands of people, who
have come into touch with this Chart and this Under­
standing, have said just those words.
That is what is taking place. The mental world of
mankind is one! The feeling world is one! That is
why the Great Himalaya and the Great Divine Di­
rector, when the Great Himalaya came in California,
made it possible to open and direct these Currents
through the atmosphere of earth. The Great Hima­
laya, seeing what was being accomplished here, every
class since then has opened the currents of earth, and
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 5 11
thousands of people in India, without a radio, have
received this Work.
Mankind comprehends so little of all the great, the
Mighty Inner Activities which are going on. I am
glad to mention some of these things, that you may
fully understand how tremendous this Work is. See
how unfortunate it was for any human being, because
he could not go on mixing this Work up with other
things; and because the Messengers were firm, either
withdrew or compelled his own dismissal. Then such
individuals went out and spread falsehoods about
this Magnificent Work. Do you not see what an un­
fortunate thing it is for them to allow themselves to
be seized upon and used that way? Yet, they just have
to have the experience. Maybe some day they will see
their mistakes; but in the meantime, they temporarily
disturb some earnest people who would be free in no
time.
That is the only reason they are ever given a mo­
ment’s consideration; because there are a few indi­
viduals who are earnest students, and temporarily
they become disturbed, by those false expressions
which are given forth. That is why in this class, We
take up this condition Ourselves, so the people may
understand how unfortunate it is to listen to those
foolish things.
I say to you tonight, if the blessed Messengers had
ever made any mistakes they would be the first to
512 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
acknowledge it to the world, and do not ever forget
that. They would be the first ones to correct them.
The world will one day come to know it; for when
those blessed Messengers enter into the Radiation of
the Class Work, there are no mistakes made. Every­
thing is under the direction of the Ascended Masters
and Their Radiation governs it. If they are dynamic
and positive it is because it is necessary; it is not their
own idea about it.
Several have spread the report that these Dictations
are not Real and that it is all the Messenger doing it.
Dear ones, will you show Me any human being in the
world who can do it? This blessed brother never gives
one moment’s thought, in fact he never even knows
Who is going to dictate. We do that on purpose, so his
mind does not begin to think of it or wonder what
They are going to say. He never has for a single
moment. Show Me anybody in the human actave un­
ascended, who can stand before the public and voice
such Magnificent Truths. There have been hundreds
of Dictations given—no two alike! Show Me anybody
else who can do it! and then see whether these Dicta­
tions are Real or not!
Beloved ones, this Truth stands before mankind!
All humanity would see It, if they were left alone in
their own observation. We rejoice so much, that the
Great Light is the Dominion of mankind; and it only
requires a little more patience upon the part of the
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T MS
earnest ones; to see all of this viciousness fade out and
disappear as though it had never been.
Beloved ones, those who do not want to stand by
the Light will one day see their mistakes. I give you
great credit. It takes a great deal of courage to stand
for the Light, against all of the conditions which man­
kind meets; but it is worth a thousand times the effort
and strength it requires to stand by this Light. It is
the most Wondrous Thing in all the Universe. It is
your Life, your Great Presence of Life and of Perfec­
tion—All-wise, All-perfect. It just requires your atten­
tion and your earnest sincere call, for that Perfection
to reach down, take you within Its Arms; lift you
into the Higher Mental Body; and then into that
Great Presence of all Life, your Electronic Body;
where you carry with you the Authority, the Power of
having dissolved and consumed all human creations.
Then you ascend into the Perfection of your own
Precious Selves of Light.
Oh, you are not these bodies, dear ones! These are
just garments which you are wearing; they are not the
Real You. If they were, they would be Perfect, filled
with health, power, strength and Perfection. Just
think! Did you ever in your Life, beloved ones, know
of anything in your outer activity which requires so
little effort?
As you acknowledge your Presence above you, as
real in your feelings; knowing that you are a part of
514 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
Its Great Perfection; Its Great Light, Energy and
Intelligence anchored within your physical heart;
then you know all you have to do is to accept It. Give
It your attention, make your earnest call and have Its
Great Perfection release in, through and around you;
fill your mind, body and feeling world with the Per­
fection which It is. Then, as Its Great Purified Activ­
ity reaches a certain point, It just picks you up and
lifts the purified physical body into the Higher Men­
tal Body. Then, It raises you into the Great Presence
where you become the Ascended Being; carrying with
you the Victory over the human element of Life. That
gives you Eternal Authority over all energy and sub­
stance in the Universe, which the Ascended Master is.
T ry to follow Me in your feelings, in that which I
will try to convey to you. When I was making My
search, all the time I was expecting to find the one
who could help Me. In some small degree, you know
what it is to momentarily expect even a step might
bring you into connection with the individual you
are seeking. Think of it! Today, you do not have to
make that search. You do not have to go through the
hours of uncertainty which were Mine—the days, the
weeks, the months, the years. I mean the uncertainty
which comes from the yet unaccomplished.
Today, your hearts know your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” is above you. You know that you only need to
make your application; to give your attention to It;
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 5 15
to make the call; and sooner or later, It will flood your
being and world with all that is required to cleanse,
purify and place your physical body in a position
where the earth loses attraction for it. Then, nothing
can hold it longer. It naturally by the up-rising Power
of the Presence ascends, free forever from human
garments and limitations.
You see in the purifying process of the physical
bodies, the discordant qualities are thrown off. Your
body may retain much of the appearance of imperfec­
tion yet, even when your feet have left the earth. My
body did not change, until after My feet had left the
earth. Only after I had been absorbed into the Higher
Mental Body did the transformation take place. I
still retained the appearance largely of what I had of
imperfection in the physical form; but no sooner had
I entered into the Radiance of the Higher Mental
Body, than just like that (motion of hand) all of the
human imperfect appearance disappeared—
even the
old suit of clothes I had on! If you had watched it as
I did, dissolve—I have not tried to reach back and
analyze it—but out of that old suit of clothes must
have come some element, out of which the other
garments of the Higher Octave came; for that suit of
clothes dissolved into the garments of the Higher
Octave, such as I had never thought possible to wear.
There is no human element in this I am talking
about. Why are the Ascended Masters always so mag-
516 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
nificent? Why are They clothed so magnificently?
Because it is the Law of Perfection! They cannot be
otherwise! Everyone, as he enters into that Great Per­
fection, becomes clothed like Them; not only in the
Perfect Form of finer Substance, but also the finer
Garments. Look for instance! I am standing right
here while I am flashing the Words to the Messenger.
Why do you not see Me? Because the vibratory action
of My Body, unless I lower It, is above the vibratory
action of your physical sight, and of course you do
not see it; but if I were to lower it suddenly to the
vibratory action and rate of your physical sight, you
would see Me just as plain as you see each other.
Please understand, beloved ones, with the As­
cended Master, or with Myself for instance, Who have
so recently been freed from limitations, I did not even
contemplate it as I recall now. During those years of
the search I only had—perhaps I was stupid; but will
you believe it, I only thought of the words which the
Master had given Me in India: “ When you have
found that man, you will have found the one who can
assist you to the Ascension.” The word “ Ascension”
was the only thing My consciousness fixed upon and
held to. It never left Me waking or sleeping; for I
would wake up in the night saying: “ when you find
that man you will find the one who can assist you to
the Ascension.” That phrase was repeated to Me
again and again, thousands and thouands of times,
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 5i7
beloved ones. I never even thought or considered
what would be the process, not even for a second as I
recall. Is it not strange?
There is something tremendous, as I see it today,
and that is regarding contemplation. We find it is so
much better, to call the student’s attention to the use
of contemplation rather than meditation; for the mass
understanding of meditation has grown upon man­
kind and makes them feel; they must sit in meditation
so long that they become negative. In contemplation,
the very word itself means action of the Presence,
upon which your attention is fixed. You see contem­
plation is action. Meditation is just stillness, and if
you sit too long in it, you become negative. It is the
very thing you do not want. So it is very much wiser
in all your consideration of the Presence to think of
It as contemplation rather than meditation.
Oh, when I saw that Cup in his hand! Can you feel
with Me for a moment what surged through My Body,
when I saw that Cup and I knew My search was
ended? All the Power of My Being rushed forth! I
saw the Light beginning to descend and enfold this
body you see before you. Each moment It became
more dazzling and blazing, as It came down just be­
low the heart, between the heart and solar plexus.
Oh, I will never forget every moment, everything
that took place! The Light in those arms and about
his head and shoulders was so dazzling that at first,
5 i8 ASCENDED M ASTER LIGH T
it was blinding to Me. As It gained the fulness of Its
Power, and those arms went out, My Arms went out
involuntarily and his hands took Mine. My feet left
the earth, and as I continued to ascend as far as he
could reach, his hands let go! and I found Myself still
moving on, until My feet were some distance above
his head. Then, as I stood there looking back at him,
can you ever know My Feeling. I had forgotten every­
thing that was taking place with Me, but just My
Eternal Gratitude to him. As he stood there looking
at Me, the Light still holding about him, for a mo­
ment My attention came back to Myself. I looked at
Myself and My garments were magnificent, wonder­
ful to behold! I cannot tell you just what did it, but
it was as though a mirror stood before Me and I saw
Myself as I really was! Then, came the feeling of the
Great Tremendous Pull, as that Great Ray of Daz­
zling White Light descended from My Own Presence!
It enveloped Me and I disappeared within It!
That was Real, dear people! That was Real! The
most Real thing that ever was manifest on earth, and
I want you to feel it tonight with Me! Do you wonder
then, how I feel about this Work? Oh never with un­
kindness, but with a firm mighty Determination, now
that I can wield these Powers of Light; I shall never
let human viciousness or gossip touch or harm him
or this Work. If there were no other way, then I
would dissolve those physical bodies, before they
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 5J9
shall harm him! When he with Love, gentleness and
kindness is spreading, or trying to spread to mankind
the Greatest Truth ever given the earth or that can
ever come. To think that there are those in human
forms who could be so depraved as to blame him or
make false pretenses or accusations against him: just
because they were not willing to give obedience.
Oh blessed ones, I rejoice with every one of you,
who have been strong enough to stand in this Great
Light and call to yourself your own. The Light is your
own! and all this Perfection which stands before you
is yours! It was only waiting for the day when you
would give It recognition and acceptance. Make the
call in your application with sufficient determination
in your feelings to release this Infinite Power! to give
you your Perfect Bodies! to give you courage and
strength; then in Its great continuous release set you
free from every limitation.
Beloved ones, I am sure you feel this with Me to­
night as you never have in your Life; because this is
only released once! You will never receive again this
exact Radiation which is here tonight! So you are
fortunate indeed who are here.
Then, after a few hours I went forth. I do not find
any better word than assimilation to give you the idea
of that which followed My disappearance from the
human octave. There were about forty-two hours of
assimilation, until I began to feel the full Power of
* s T - ■ -
520 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
My Being. I wanted to go hither and thither and find
out a lot of things; but the Great Wisdom of Those
about Me said: “ There is no hurry. You now have all
Eternity before you.” As our blessed Frank has
learned to say: “Just take it easy,” so I took it easy;
and within a few hours, I realized how great that
Wisdom had been. I cannot go into the explanation
tonight, some day perhaps I shall.
Then, the day came when They said: “ Now do as
you like” ; and you would be surprised, if I were to
tell you just where I went. T o find myself suddenly
free from all limitations; to go where I pleased and in
whatever—now notice this—whatever vibratory ac­
tion I chose. Can you believe it, I still wanted to find
out what was above the Octave where I was. So I
began going up, and up, and up. I do not know how
far I went; but in each Octave I found everything,
within that vibratory action, just as tangible in its
higher rate of vibration as the one below it.
That was the thing which troubled Me all my Life
and I had to find it out. My delight knew no bounds.
Once My father, when I was a lad about fourteen,
touched upon this. It was very seldom he ever struck
that particular mood; but this day, we had just fin­
ished dinner and he started to talk, to My utter amaze­
ment; because he was a very quiet man. He seemed
to be directing most of his attention to Me. Today, I
know he was being prompted by one of the Great
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 5 2 1
Masters at the time. I am sure he did not know it;
but I now know that was what was actually taking
place.
So he said: “ Son, do you ever think about what is
beyond this Octave of Life’’? I wanted to say to him:
“ did you ever,” but I did not dare do it. He went on
and said: “ Somehow I know there are many Octaves
above this physical one; and somehow, I know that
each Octave has its own vibratory action of sub­
stance.” Well my astonishment knew no bounds and
I said: “ Father, do you actually think that”? He re­
plied: “ Not only do I think it, but I know it! I cannot
tell you how I know it or why, but I know that.” He
went on for sometime and all of a sudden he stopped;
and try as we might, we could never draw him back
into that discussion again. I can never tell you how
I wanted to get him to talk about it again.
Again I say to you, the Light within My own heart,
although I did not know a thing about it at that time,
knew and accepted the words he spoke as the Truth.
Today, I am sure as I am talking to you this minute,
it was the preparation. He was inspired to call My
attention to it, for that which followed afterwards.
There is no question about it.
So do you not see, beloved ones, how you are having
the greatest privilege in the entire Universe by having
all of this great amount of Understanding, application
and Law of Life given you. It has been tremendous!
522 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
Remember, dear ones, if it had not been for the great
urgent need and the Command of the Great Cosmic
Light, so much would not have been given. Do you
realize that this great amount of Truth which has
been given, is unparalleled in the history of the
earth?
In past ages, when people sought this Truth all
over the world, they were taken in on probation. They
were eased along like a small infant learning to walk;
but today you are all jumping in with both feet and
swimming well. Why? Notice, why, dear ones? This
is important! Why are you able to swim so well? Be­
cause of this Mighty Radiance from the Ascended
Masters, the Cosmic Beings and the Cosmic Light.
You would not swim nearly so well, if it was not for
Their Presence, do not forget that! Oh, the Blessing
of the Presence of Those Great Ones is beyond any­
thing in the world! Never forget it for one moment.
Mankind would be helpless and lost today, if it were
not for their Presence and Mighty Radiation which
They release.
Tonight, I want you to rejoice with Me, and as
you contemplate in the future My Words and My own
experience related to you tonight, Oh may you feel
it! Oh feel it! FEEL IT ! with Its Great Reality, until
your whole being glows with that Light from within;
so Its very Radiance becomes visible in your physical
form. Oh FEEL IT ! in the full Glory of Its Infinite
ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T 52B
Power; and let Its Great, Its Almighty Perfect Ac­
tivity go on and on.
You have the Greatest Friends on earth—the As­
cended Masters! Who will never criticize you, con­
demn you nor say to you: “ Why haven’t you done
this or that”? but just in Their Great Love, Kindness
and Radiation pour It forth and await your obedi­
ence, to the extent that Its Great Perfection begins
to find expression within, about you and in
your world of activity; to bless you forever with Its
ever intensifying Perfection; charging you and your
world with the Glory of the “ Mighty I AM ” in Its
full Power and Action, through the human form.
Then, no longer will human disease and disturbance
act; no longer will problems exist; no longer will
illness be; no longer will imperfections be; but the
Glory of your Presence will be in full command of all
that is.
Blessed ones tonight! the Light in your hearts right
now is all there is! When the human form—the feel­
ing-gives obedience to that Light within, It expands;
all human imperfection ceases to be; and you become
the God of Light; the Goddess of Light.
Out of the fulness of the Light of your heart, floods
forth Its Perfection into your being; into your phys­
ical body; and by that firm unyielding stand to and
with your Presence, call with such firm determina­
tion, that all things of human creation yield to the
524 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
Power of your call. As that Great Light releases and
pours forth, know you are no longer a being, held by
the activities of your own creation; but you are a
Free Being, who has cut asunder the chains of your
own forging! and as they drop away, you stand forth
the Commander of your own world—a Being of Light!
I thank you!
M I G H T Y V I C T O R Y ’ S D I S C O U R S E
WASHINGTON, D.C.
APRIL 1 7 , 1 9 3 8
RIEN DS of the Light! Oh, what a wondrous
word “friendship” is. It is the great impersonal
J L activity of Life, which by the Inner Law of Its
own attraction, creates what We know as True
Friendship.
Tonight, come with Me into the Garden of My
Heart! Observe with Me the Beauties which are
there—the release from all human qualities and the
fulfilment of your great desires. In those desires,
every heart is coming to know that its call has been to
the Light. May that call be satisfied tonight. May the
fulness of Thy Infinite Power, Oh Light within each
human form, find Its response; and in the Garden of
My Heart, gather the Flowers which will bloom for­
ever in the gardens of their own hearts. May they
stand glorified in the out-picturing of all the Great
Law of Life holds for mankind. It has waited so long.
It has waited until the attention of mankind would
give It the opportunity to flood forth; and show to the
individual whether his garden had been well tended
or not; whether it had been cared for properly.
Today, Many Gardens of Life are being set into
525
526 ASCENDED M A STER LIG H T
Divine Order; and the beauty which is gathering
there is exquisite to behold, after many centuries of
neglect. Tonight, allow Me to help you in designing,
or calling forth the re-appearance of the design of
your Garden of Life. It waited so long to again take
form. In the center of that Garden of Life is your
Home, the Home of Light—exquisitely beautiful,
filled with all the treasures that your kind deeds have
done, have brought forth and given Life. Ere long
only the Perfection, the Blessings which you have
given forth, will remain in your Garden.
In the cleansing and purifying of your feeling world
comes Beauty again to your Garden of Life. Oh, how
all long to look upon the Beauty and Perfection of
their own creation. My Friends of the Light! today,
you have the Key to un-lock your Garden-gate. Enter
in! and see, all unknown to you in this world of
human limitations and turmoil, your Garden of
Light. In your Home of Light is the Perfecting Ac­
tivity going on, preparing for the day when you are
able to say to all human creation—Oh, with a great
victorious smile: “ No longer have you power to re­
main in my world. Be thou gone forever’’! Then, in
the fulness of the Consciousness of your Victory, will
all that has taken unpleasant form in your Garden,
disappear and wither away—dissolving, to appear no
more. Such is the condition for which the Great Di­
vine Director has enabled you to be prepared this day.
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 527
Will you for a few moments allow Me to enter your
Garden, as I have invited you to enter Mine? Let Me
assist in the re-arrangement of your Garden, to put
everything into order; so when you bring back the
conscious memory of your first conscious visit there,
you will bring back the Victory of Light; Its rejoic­
ing; Its Great Calm Peace; Its great and full Feeling
of Mastery over all outer conditions. That is all for
you My Friends of Light. It is for everyone who will
hold his attention to the Presence of Light and Life,
of Victory, Wisdom and Power. Your short labor,
your short service is in just pouring out Loving kindli­
ness to everything; most of all to your associates,
whether it be person, place, conditions or things. Still
all Life responds to the outpouring of Divine Love
and becomes the Victory of Light!
Let us gather about us our Friends of the Light. Let
us consider for a moment what that means; it does not
mean just individuals alone. You have some friends
of your own creation. You have some things of your
own creation which are not your friends. Therefore,
they are not of the Light. They are of the shadows,
and the shadows have held their dominion quite a
long time. Our Friends of the Light are saying to the
shadows: “ You may no longer have energy to sustain
you! You are built upon the sands of human doubts
and fears—the quicksand of human creation. There­
fore, your foundation is of no avail! Therefore, sink
528 ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T
you shadows into oblivion! Wither and disappear”!
Come! My Friends of the Light! take your Do­
minion in my household, My Palace of Light! There
shall we dwell forever in the Victory of the Light!
The Harmonies of Life shall find their expression in
the Great Melodies of Life! They are Transcendent
in Power of Achievement. Then, I will find and you
will find the Dominion of your Being in the Power of
the Light Rays. As you look about and see what
service is to be rendered, you will say: “ My Friend of
Light, go forth to this objective! Go forth to that per­
son! Go forth to that condition! Hold them in Thy
Wondrous Radiance until that person, place or con­
dition becomes the Radiance which thou art! Then,
will all become peace and rest and happiness. Then,
will the Fulness of Life know Its Own, reach forth
and draw It into action. It will dwell with Its friends
in Its Palace of Light! Then will the table be laden
with the Service of Crystal Light—glittering in Its
Majestic Purity and Perfection. Then, as the Essence
of Life fills the “ Crystal Cup,” will you hand forth
that “ Crystal Cup” to your Friends of Light following
on, and say to them: “ Drink of Life in Its Purity and
be free” ! Such is the Beauty and Perfection of your
Friends of Light.
Tonight, may I accept you, My Friends of Light?
Let My Light and My Love help to purify you—
your
mind, body and world; that your Garden may bring
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 529
forth the choicest Flowers and the choicest Fruits of
Life. Its fulness will be the Peace and Happiness
every heart craves; but which it has not known how
to find or to bring about.
Behold the Mighty Director of your Lifel the
Presence of all Life! Who through your Higher
Mental Body is the Arranger of Life. When you are
willing to give sufficient obedience to the Presence of
all Life, the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” your Higher
Mental Body will be your Friend of Light; for It is
the Source from which you receive all good.
I welcome you into My Garden tonight. Will you
be My Friends of Light; that I may enter into your
Garden and help to produce all the Perfection and
Beauty that you wish to express and that you wish to
give forth? Think of it! your friends of earth are
Friends of Light, when you come to think of them as
the “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Let us try to forget the
lower vibratory action which we have called the
human; and as we say to that human: “ You have no
power,” then dismiss it, forget it and become the
Friends of Light everywhere forever.
I hold you within My Heart of Light, that you may
rest there in peace; so the fulness, of all that Life
holds for you, may flow and never cease; until Its
Great Abundance has charged your world with Light;
has lifted you into the Garden of Love—into your
Palace. Your Perfect Sight lifts and holds you there in
53° ASCENDED M A STER LIG H T
the Light and Beauty of Life. It holds you free and
lifts you forever above all outer strife.
Call with all your heart! Be My Friends forever
in the Light! and I will call and lift you through the
Power of God’s Own Light. Then, We will move
together in the Presence of all that is—
all Perfection,
all Life; Its Beauty and Peace in the Eternity of Light.
I thank you and bless you for being willing to enter
My Garden, that I may enter yours; and we shall, arm
in arm, hand in hand, move forth together to your
Victory in the Light.
My Love and Blessings and those of the Great Host
of Ascended Masters, the Legion of Light and the
Great Cosmic Beings enfold you forever; and give
you Rest and Peace in the action of God’s, the “ Mighty
I A M ’S” Great Silence; until all desires and cravings
for Perfection are fulfilled in your Life. I thank you.
V IC T O R Y ’S GARD EN
I hold you in My Heart of Light,
So you may dwell in Peace;
Then, all that Life still holds for you
Will flow and never cease:
Until Its Great Abundance too
Has charged your world with Light,
For now the Garden of My Love
Is your own Palace bright.
\
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 5 3 1
Your Presence lifts and holds you there,
Its Beauty your own Life:
The “ I AM ” holds and sets you free
Above all outer strife.
Oh, call to Me with all your heart,
My Dear Friends of the Light!
And I will raise you by My Pow’r
“ The Great Command”—My Might!
So Arm in Arm, and Hand in Hand
With Legions of Great Light,
We move together ever free
In Gardens dazzling bright—
The Garden of your heart and Mine,
Life’s Glory you now see,
You are My Dear Friends of the Light,
“ I AM ” your Victory!
FINIS
T H E SA IN T GERM AIN SERIES
SA IN T GERM AIN PRESS
Post Office Box 1133 Chicago, Illinois
UNVEILED MYSTERIES, Volume I
B y Godfré Ray King
Containing the first group of the author’s experiences.
Price $2.50 Postpaid$2.75
THE MAGIC PRESENCE, Volume II
B y Godfré Ray King
Containing the second group of the author’s experiences.
Price $2.75 Postpaid$3.00
THE “I AM” DISCOURSES, Volume III
B y T he Ascended Master, Saint Germain
Containing thirty-three Discourses explaining the Ascended
Masters’ application of the “I AM,” with three color plates.
Price S2.75 PostpaidS3.00
THE “I AM” ADORATIONS, AFFIRMATIONS AND
DECREES, Volume V B y Chanera
Parts 1 and 2
A selection of powerful adorations, affirmations and Decrees
of the “Mighty I AM Presence.”
Price $1.75 Postpaid $2.00
ASCENDED MASTER DISCOURSES, Volume VI
B y VARIOUS OF THE ASCENDED MASTERS
Containing twenty Discourses dictated before hundreds of
students, with three color plates.
Price $2.75 Postpaid $3.00
“I AM” ADORATIONS AND AFFIRMATIONS
B y Chanera
Vest Pocket Edition of powerful Adorations and Affirma­
tions.
Price $1.00 Postpaid $1.20
533
534 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
“I AM” DECREE BOOKLET
B y Chanera
A paper bound booklet, containing a collection of “I AM”
Decrees which everyone can use to bring Freedom to the
individual, America and the world. Size 5I/2 x 8
Price $ t.00 Postpaid $1.15
TRANSLATIONS
Books in Braille
“Unveiled Mysteries”—
In Two Volumes Price $5.25
“The Magic Presence”—
In Three Volumes Price $7.75
“The ‘I AM’ Discourses”—In Two Volumes Price $6.75
“Ascended Master Discourses” (In preparation)
CHART OF “THE MAGIC PRESENCE”
A beautifully lithographed color chart, suitable for framing
and meditation. Size 12 x 20
Price $1.00 Postpaid $1.20
Larger size on heavy linen for Study Groups and individual
use. Size 30 x 48
Price $15.00, mailing charges included.
PICTURE OF THE ASCENDED MASTER, JESUS
PICTURE OF THE ASCENDED MASTER,
SAINT GERMAIN
Hand colored steel engravings of etchings by Charles
Sindelar. Size 1 2 x 1 6
Price each $2.00 Postpaid $2.25
PICTURE OF THE “OLD MAN OF THE HILLS”
Hand colored steel engraving of etching by Robert A.
Aguilar. Size 12 x 16
Price $2.00 Postpaid $2.25
RADIO BROADCASTING TRANSCRIPTIONS
A series of Broadcasts available for use, containing explana­
tion of the Law of Life; also protection for America. For
information write Saint Germain Press, Chicago, Illinois.
THE VOICE OF THE “I AM”
Monthly Magazine containing articles explaining the Law
of Life; Discourses by the Ascended Masters and other im-
ASCENDED M ASTER LIG H T 535
portant subjects. Back numbers available, beginning Febru­
ary, 1936. Yearly subscription begins with March, 1938
Price $3.00 Single copy $ .35
MUSIC OF THE SPHERES
Songs with Music
Goddess of Liberty
Music by Virginia LaFerrera—
Lyrics by Catherine Rogers.
Beautifully lithographed cover in colors, suitable for framing.
Price $i.oo Postpaid$1.15
Arranged for 21-piece Band
Price $2.00 Postpaid$2.15
Victory
Music by Virginia LaFerrera—
Lyrics by Catherine Rogers.
Beautifully lithographed cover in colors, suitable for framing.
Price $1.00 Postpaid$1.15
Ascended Master Youth of America
Music and lyrics by Virginia LaFerrera. Beautifully litho­
graphed cover in colors, suitable for framing.
Price $1.00 Postpaid$1.15
Light of M y Heart
Lotus M y Love
Oh, World Victorious
Rainbow Rays
Rose of Light
Voice of the Presence
A Group of Songs—
Music and lyrics by Godfri Ray King.
These are especially charged with powerful healing activity.
Beautifully lithographed covers in colors, suitable for
framing.
Price each $1.00 Postpaid $1.15
T he Love Star (Complete) (In preparation)
On the Wings of Light (In preparation)
SONG BOOK
New song book, containing many new and original songs for
which music will be published through the Saint Germain
Press.
Plus postage
Price each 50 cents
536 ASCENDED M ASTER L IG H T
VICTROLA AND PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
RR-1201—
Invocation Mr. and Mrs. Ballard and Son
RR-i202—
Harp Meditation (Silent Night) Mrs. Ballard
RR-i203—
Benediction Mr. and Mrs. Ballard and Son
RR-i 247—Harp Meditation (Nearer My God to Thee)
Mrs. Ballard
100-A—
Vocal Solo (Beautiful Presence) Catherine Rogers
100-B—
Vocal Solo (Ecstasy) Catherine Rogers
101-A—
Vocal Solo (My Victory) Catherine Rogers
101- B—
Vocal Solo (Love Star) On Wings of Song
Catherine Rogers
102- A—
Vocal Solo (Goddess of Liberty) Original
C. Rogers & V. LaFerrera
102-B—
Vocal Solo (Love Star) Original
C. Rogers & V. LaFerrera
The above Records are suitable for individual meditation
or use in Study Groups. Price each $2.50 Postpaid $2.75
