{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1938__anonymous___kosmon_church_service_book.pdf","mytitle":"Kosmon Church Service Book","mylang":"de"}
THE
KOSMON CHURCH
S E R V I C E BOOK
ISSUED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CONFRATERNITY
FOR THE USE OF COMMUNITANTS IN THEIR PRIVATE
DEVOTIONS AND PUBLIC WORSHIP
" To Thee, W hose Temple is a ll space.
W hose A lta r, earth, sea, skies ;
One chorus let a ll beings raise.
A ll nature's incense rise.”
P ublished for the
Confraternity of F aithists and the K osmon Church
i 6a T h e Boulevard,
London, S.W.17
By Tt
t
t
t K osmon P ress, 39 Chfttnut R oad?
WrNORWOOD,
REVISED 1938
ANNO KOSMON 90
FOREWORD
TH E primary object of this booklet is, as stated on
the title page, to give to Communitants in a
handy form, the rituals of the Kosmon Church as
sanctioned by the Confraternity for use in open, or
public worship.
I t has, however, long been recognized th at this
collection of rites as an embodiment of the teachings
and practice of the Church is peculiarly replete, and
forms, therefore, an excellent introductory handbook.
The publishers will always be glad to receive com­
munications and answer inquiries from persons and
societies to whom the principles embodied may
appeal and who may feel disposed, directly or
indirectly, to aid in their extension.
Owing to considerations of a spiritual nature, it has
not been thought advisable to include a full rubric
but, in a general way, the Cross of the Sacred Name
and two candles on a W hite Altar may be considered
appropriate. The use of incense is optional, though
recommended.
Faithist Communities conducting public worship
receive detailed instruction in the rubric recommended,
or considered essential for the use of these rites.
May the blessing of the All One, Jehovih, rest upon
this little volume dedicated to His Service by
TH E PUBLISHERS.
3
CONTENTS
Foreword ...............
Ascensional Mas
Consolation Rite
Essora „
Evensong „
Funeral „
Healing „
Home Service „
Intercessory „
Marriage „
Preceptory „
Zarathustrian Mas ...
Dedication of Children
Emancipation R ite ...
P age
3
9
23
32
38
56
16
49
47
51
5
42
63
69
4
RITE OF PRECEPTORY
H ym n.
Chief. Hail, Faithists in Jehovihl [Sign—The
N am e.]
Response. All Hail, Worthy Chief! [Sign—
Right hand raised.]
Chief. Under what symbol doth the All Light
manifest in Confraternity ?
Response. By the Unity in Wisdom, Love, and
Power. [Sign—Triangle.]
Chief. In this acknowledgment is our strength,
and faith at all times shall quicken our souls'
aspirations.
We have met this morning in open Communion
for devotion and instruction. May the inclination
of our hearts be quickened by the Light of the
Spirit, and our minds quickened by the Light of
the Soul, that all we do or receive may redound to
the Father's honour and glory!
Therefore in uniting for further service let us
seek the All Father by an Invocation.
Invocation.
“ Our Father Who art in heaven, &c.," or,
J oshu's Prayer.
All Recite : Jehovih, Who rulest in heaven
5
and earth, hallowed be Thy Name, and reverent
amongst men. Sufficient unto me is my bread, and
as much as I forgive those that trespass against
me, so make Thou me steadfast to shun tempta­
tion, for all honour and glory are Thine, worlds
without end. Amen.
BELL. All rise and recite.
The Declaration
I declare unto Thee, J ehovih, in the presence
of the Faithists here assembled, that henceforth
I will worship none but Thee, Thou All Highest
Creator, Who art variously named by mortals,
Jehovih, The Great Spirit, The Almighty, The
Eternal Father, The I Am, The All Light, Eolin,
Ormazd, The Architect of the Universe, Ever
Present in all and yet above all, unto Whom none
can attain for ever.
I declare that I will henceforth turn from evil
and strive to do good, that I may come into at-
one-ment with Thee, Thou All Father, Life of
all life, and Soul of all souls, Who art to the under­
standing of all the living even as the sun is to the
light of day.
I promise to abnegate self and dwell in harmony
with my brother and sister Faithists, also to
respect the authority of the Chief of the Community.
6 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
RITE OF PRECEPTORY
I promise to put aside the uncharitable tongue,
and not to perceive evil in any man, woman, or
child, but only the limitations of their birth and
surroundings. In Thee, O Jehovih, is my trust.
Amen.
R eading.
H ym n.
P receptory.
HYMN (during which the Collection is taken)*
N otices.
Three B ells : All R ise.
Chief. Brothers and Sisters, the sands of time
the hour glass have run and this our sacred
gathering must e’en now close. For that we have
done or received, praise be to the All Light. As
ye take your various ways, parting yet separating
not, bear in mind this exhortation. Maintain before
the world an upright mind, tolerant above all to
thy fellow man. Fear not, though death should
call and from the sphere of earthly labour say
away. Thy work is not of earth for all time ; the
life of Es is a higher call. But care for health;
and all ye do, do for Jehovih’s sake. By a cheerful
demeanour dispel care. Observe at all times the
7
Declaration, that by the example ye hereby show
many shall seek the Father's Kingdom, and the
Church of Kosmon shall grow apace till at. last its
Light is world embracing. Amen.
Response. Worthy Chief, honour to thy sacred
charge. May Jehovih give us power to bear in
mind thy exhortation. We do covenant ourselves
anew to observe our Declaration. May Jehovih
bless thee ; keep us all. Amen.
Chief. Give the heavenly food and fire, O Om,
to Thy Faithists. Farewell angels. Spirits in Light
surround the Sanctuary. Faithists, farewell!
Response. Farewell angels. Farewell Chief!
**
Or the formula may be recited as follows :—
Chief. Agni ahoma Emetha Omnii. Es val'e.
Es Sanctui. Val'e Emetha.
Response. Val'e Eseans. Val'e Chief.
t*
8 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
B enediction.
THE ASCENSIONAL MAS
[Procession of Priests, with Hymn or Voluntary, the
Chief Priest carrying the symbol of the Sacred Name
(Cross and Leaf).]
Chief Priest, holding Sacred Name and facing congrega­
tion, says, from the Altar:—To Jehovih all adoration
and glory for ever. Amen.
Response. By and through Him is all life and
motion and power, things seen and unseen.
Priest. Nor is there an angel in heaven so high
or sufficiently wise to comprehend Jehovih in His
entirety, nor to see Him as thou seest thy fellow
man.
Response. For He is within all, beyond and
over all.
Priest. Being Ever Present in all places.
Response. Doing by virtue of His Presence.
Priest. Quickening all the living.
Response. Adorable above all things.
Priest. Even as the sun is to the light of day,
so is Jehovih to the understanding of all the living.
All. Whereon to contemplate is the road to
everlasting life, rising in Wisdom, Love, and
Power for ever. Amen.
9
IO KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
[Music, whilst S.N. is placed reverently on the Altar,
the Agni lit and Incense offered by Assistant Priests.]
ChiefPriest, Let US pray. (All seated or kneeling.)
Jehovih, our Heavenly Father, in full con­
sciousness of the Power of Thy Wisdom and Love,
we come to Thee this day, and in all humility seek
to enter the fullness of Thy Holy Self.
We acknowledge the power of Thy Holy Word as
revealed to Zarathustra and all the Iesu who have
followed him. We seek to know more of those
things pertaining to our higher destiny, that in
following after them we may ascend into the full­
ness of Thy Light.
Grant, we beseech Thee, an open vision and a
fuller revelation of Thy Majesty, that we may ever
realize our true spiritual nature.
Knowing that Thine Angels gather near to help
and bless ; knowing that Thy Will is done through
Thine Angels and the souls of men, we would glory
in the Sunlight of Thy Presence.
Grant, therefore, we pray Thee, that those
powers which weaken our purpose, destroy our
faith and negative our zeal, may be powerless to
hold us longer in subjection, that we may ascend
above the tetracts* enthralment. And, furthermore,
may all those dwellers in the Es life, who come
athwart our path, or who are in any way associated
THE ASCENSIONAL MAS I I
with us, limiting our aspiration, depressing or
hindering us through earthly tendencies, be now
impelled by the Light of the Presence to find
ascension into planes of purification and release,
that their bonds may be removed ; and we, by this
our act of service, strengthen and help all those who
are near and who desire to be no longer held by the
bondage of Earth.
Father, grant us the Peace of Thy Presence, and
give us faith that we may transcend corpor and
rising thereby into realms of Light receive the
benediction of the Sun Celestial. Hear this our
prayer. Amen.
All R ecite : " Jehovih, Who rulest,” etc. (see
P- 5).
R ea d in g .
H y m n .
SECOND Re a d in g (relating to the setting up of the
Wheel).
B ell. All rise.
Priest. Of the earth shall man learn earthly
things. But light from heaven descendeth to
mortals by the angels in heaven, who are the
servants of the Most High.
Response. As the Sun at noon is to the cor­
poreal earth so is Jehovih to the souls of men.
As the eye tumeth to the east to behold the
rising sun, so tumeth the spirit of the child of
Dawn to Jehovih, the Great Spirit.
Priest. He hath uttered the Sacred Name ;
his hands have made the signs of the Ancients;
his feet have run quickly to the afflicted and his
substance lifted them up.
Response. As the wicked find strength in
armies, so, not single-handed, laboureth the child
of Dawn.
Priest. He hath united in a Brotherhood with
many. In the Chamber of holies supplicated he
the Great Spirit. The words of enchantment are
at his tongue's end. With his own hand writeth
he on stone the password of the Faithist. It is
the circumference of all. It extendeth from left to
right and from below- upward and it holdeth the
symbol of life.
Response. I am the Self within all selves,
saith Jehovih. Nor things seen, nor things un­
seen, nor light and darkness are, nor were, but
all things proceed out of Me, and are of Me. Into
motion and life quickened I them and all of them
are but members of My body.
Priest. I made man a spirit but I gave him
a corporeal body that he might leam corporeal
12 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
THE ASCENSIONAL MAS 13
things, saith Jehovih. Death I made that man
might inherit My Etherean worlds in the firmament
of heaven.
Response. But man turned away from Me and
desired the things of earth; and after death his
spirit was bound to that which he desired, and he
became a wandering spirit on the face of the earth.
Priest. In the midst of my desires I am cast
down. I am unworthy in Thy Sight, O Jehovih.
Have I not set store on my house and my land
and on all manner of earthly things ? Yea, as with
a chain have I bound my spirit to become a
wanderer on the earth.
Response. And the spirits of the bound have
I made to encompass the earth in all places, and
until they put away the darkness that is in them,
they shall not inherit my Etherean Worlds, saith
Jehovih. Neither shall they hear My Voice, nor
believe in My Person, for they have descended
into darkness and are blind and dumb to my
glories in the firmament of heaven.
Priest. But I provide for them in their dark­
ness, saith Jehovih, for I bring the earth into
a light region in the firmament above and I send
My Holy Angels to deliver them out of darkness
and bondage. In My Name raise they up men with
eyfes to see, and ears to hear, and I proclaim unto
the nations of the earth.
Response. Make of my body and my spirit,
0 Jehovih, a servant unto Thee, and whatsoever
Thou puttest upon me that will I accept and do
with all my might and wisdom and love. That
which Thou hast taught me will I proclaim, fearing
naught that may come upon me ; for Thou shalt
make of me an example of steadfastness for Thy
Glory. For the loss of my earthly goods will I
complain n o t; nor for imprisonment nor toil, nor
sickness nor death. To Thy servant these things
are as nothing. Without Thee, 0 Jehovih, I am
as nothing ; but Thy servant will I be henceforth
for ever. Amen.
Glory be to Thee our Father. Amen.
All Seated.
Voluntary.
Address
H ym n.
Chief Priest. Beloved brethren, in the fullness
of faith I do conjure you now to approach the
throne of grace to ask whatever you will and it be
a blessing and a help to you.
14 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
THE ASCENSIONAL MAS
For, know well and understand, that in this day
of Kosmon the ancient promises have been re­
newed ; and though ye be of little faith, yet the
Angels of the Presence shall draw near and listen
to the petition ye have to make.
So by your faith shall they be aided to help you,
that the Father's love be magnified in your life.
Knock and the door shall be opened. Ask and ye
shall receive. E'en though ye be not of this Church
or Brotherhood, come, turn this Wheel as an out­
ward token of an inward petition, and ask in
prayer what ye will, and Jehovih, our Heavenly
Father, shall bless you. So shall His Kingdom be
advanced through you.
For I trow that in the measure ye receive, so
shall that light impelyour feet on the path of good
works done unto others, to the Father's honour
and glory, worlds without end. Amen.
During a slow voluntary the petitioners come to the
Wheel and make their silent petition.
Chief, or other Priest, offers thanks.
N otices.
Closing H ym n, with Collection.
15
B enediction.
RITE OF HEALING
H ymn.
Chief Priest. Let us pray.
0 Ormazd, we have met to-day to do Thy W ill:
to minister to our fellow kind. Thy love has guided
us to this labour, and we are filled with zeal for the
task.
Thy children [some of whom are present amongst
us] have petitioned Thine Almighty aid, and in this
hour of supplication await in faith the power from
above.
Come, 0 come, Thou light of sweet forgiveness.
Remove the burden of sorrow and of pain. Restore
again the sufferers1 strength, giving them release
from suffering.
Thy Hand can heal: Thy Voice can speak the
Word of Power. Therefore come, Thou Great All-
Healer. Come, and in this rite surround us here.
And we pray, Our Father, that having received
we shall freely give. Therefore incline our hearts
to acts of mercy ; and may we at all times forgive
all trespasses against us.
Come, 0 Light Celestial, Transcendental, come.
And may Thy Holy Ones of Power now draw near,
and round this humble shrine foregather. We,
z6
being conscious of their presence, would now unite,
in this Sacred Office, our power with theirs.
May the light that bums within the Sanctuary
be again revived in the lives of those who seeking
come before Thy Shrine this mom (even), that they,
going forth renewed in strength again, shall praise
Thy Holy Name for ever; Name of All Names,
glorious and mighty.
May those whom we bear in mind, who are not
in corpor presence here with us, receive also of this
Thy Benediction: Healing, strengthening and
restoring them again.
Most Holy Light, hear this our prayer. Most
Holy Lord of all Lords, hear this our hearts' peti­
tion. Amen.
“ Our Father, etc." (chanted), or, Joshu's Prayer.
READING (from Book of Healing).
All Sea ted , or K n eeling .
[The Priest and Congregation recite alternate lines.]
Priest. Eternal Father, hear our petition.
Response. Eternal Father, hear this our prayer.
Priest. As now Thy Rites of Healing we revive.
Response. 0, by these Rites the sick restore.
RITE OF HEALING 17
B
Priest. Grant, O Father, now Thy blessing.
Response. Grant, O Father, restoration.
Priest. Aid the suffering who come seeking.
Response. Father, bless Thy children all.
Priest. We give ourselves in consecration.
Response. May we ne'er stray from the Path­
way.
Priest. May we daily strive to Thee.
Response. And our lives be ever given.
Priest. Given in service unto Thee.
Response. May Thine Angels gather with us.
Priest. May we with Thine Angels now unite.
Response. May Thy healing now descend.
Priest. Give us healing in this rite.
Response. Father, hear us now. Amen.
[Priests here join the sufferers and attendants in a circle
at the foot of the Altar.]
Chief Priest. It hath been revealed to us since
ancient times that Faith opens the door for Life
to enter. Let us all unite in this act of faith, and
in silence petition the Father's aid.
Exhorts further as inspired.
Then, facing the Shrine. O Eternal Father,
l 8 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
RITE OF HEALING 19
we pray that [names] present here with us this
morning may receive Thine aid, and be restored
again to health and strength. Our Faith is in
Thee; hear this our prayer. Amen.
V oluntary or H ym n, during which the sufferers
are ministered unto by the Chief Priest, after which
they withdraw, either altogether, or to the body of the
Temple. Priests return to the Altar.
PART II.
For the Absent.
Chief Priest. Let us pray.
O Eternal Father, Who bearest Thy children in
Thine arms when the hour of trial cometh to them ;
this mom (even) we do pray and petition that
[names] may be relieved from the affliction that
now assails them. May Thy Healing Hosts in
Light Angelic go to them, relieving them from
pain. Restore their health again. Father, hear our
prayer. Amen.
[Prayers for individual sufferers here follow, also the bless­
ing of clothing, fruit, flowers, etc., for the sick.]
Chief Priest, [names] desire to render thanks
for blessings received, etc.
H ymn of Praise.
2 0 K0SM0N CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
PART III.
(VlTAM.)
Chief Priest. That health and strength be
vouchsafed to all who are here gathered, let it be
our joyous labour to unite in the rite for the
renewal of health and strength.
Let, therefore, your hearts incline to Peace.
Let the aspirations of your hearts ascend to the
planes of the All Pure. Let your minds dwell on
the theme of the renewal of life, and in the rhyth­
mical inflow and outflow of the breath concentrate
on Om, the giver of life. Firstly let us unite, whilst
seated, and in meditation, in singing the following
hymn. Afterwards unite with me, repeating, as I
give, the words of sacred power.
H ym n.
Mantra at the Priest's discretion.
Chief Priest. Let us continue in our contempla­
tions on the Bountiful All-Giver, and those of you
RITE OF HEALING 21
who are so inclined, come, and kneel here before
the shrine and we will further invoke a blessing for
your welfare.
After the Blessing and Contemplation, All
R ise . The following sentences are pronounced by
the Priest, and responded to by the people, each
three times:
O Om, give us strength.
O Om, give us of Thyself.
O Om, may our health increase.
O Om, purify our being.
And the following once each :
O Om, we live in Thee.
O Om, we breathe Thy breath.
O Om, Thou art the Breath of Life.
Glory be to Thee, 0 Om. Amen.
[The foregoing can he omitted, at the Priest*s
discretion, if many have received the health blessing.]
Closing.
N otices. Collection.
Priest. Children of the Father’s Kingdom all,
having accomplished that which the soul required
of us, let us take our various ways. Let our hearts
dwell on the Unity, and, constantly aspiring in the
way of the Higher Life ; being true to our higher
selves ; seeking the Good, the Beautiful; so shall
the Sun Eternal shine upon us, and His Power
reside within us, now and for ever. Amen.
Jehovih's Light be upon ye all.
All. Jehovih keep thee! Amen.
B en edic tio n .
22 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
P rocession.
RITE OF CONSOLATION
(M’GITWIN)
A Service for Morning
T hree Chimes (slowly).
Opening H ym n.
First Priest. Beloved Brethren, we have met
this morning in solemn service to seek the Light
of Heaven and the ways of the Eternal. May our
desires be free from earth, and in looking upward
may we find our hearts aspiring unto the Source of
all strength. Let us this day renew our faith, and
the Father will reveal Himself unto us, and in
our lives we shall see all things working sweetly
according to His Holy Will.
Let us seek the Light in prayer.
[Sit or kneel, except Priests and Assistants.]
Jehovih, Who rulest in heaven and earth,
hallowed be Thy Name, and reverent amongst men.
Sufficient unto me is my bread, and as much as I
forgive those that trespass against me, so make
Thou me steadfast to shim temptation, for all
honour and glory are Thine, worlds without end.
Amen.
All R ise a nd Chant.
23
24 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
YAD.
Praise be unto Thee, Jehovih! Who can search
out the completeness of Thy creation ?
Or know the magnitude of Thy places, Thou
Almighty! And Thy endless inventions ?
Thou shalt be my theme for ever : to find the
far-seeing devices of my Creator, the work of my
soul.
I was alone in the world. Angels and men fed
not my soul: I was hungered and in gloom.
Then I turned to Thee, Thou Almighty. And
Thou gavest me a new growth, a fruit of life in
fire!
Which grew brighter and brighter. And my
vision was recovered, and Thy heavens were
opened as a book is opened.
And I drank of Thy waters : and ate of the tree
of the resurrection to Thy everlasting kingdoms.
The secret of Thy wisdom, O Jehovih, was
uncovered: the way of Thy Mightiness made
imperishable for ever!
SON.
Because Thou gavest into mine own hand to
exalt myself, O Jehovih! For perpetual resurrec­
tion shapedst mine every part before I knew the
way of the Almighty! Praise be unto Thee for
ever! saith the Faithist!
Because Thou providest from the ancient times
for Thy Mighty Word. From everlasting Thou
hast provided prophets to know the way of the
Omnipotent! To reveal the unseen heavens
created by Thee!
Because Thou hast kept alive the line of Thy
Majesty in mortals! Built a house for Thy chosen,
wide as the world! Faith in Thee above all things
in earth or heaven, saith the Faithist.
When all the world beside faileth, Thou my
Creator, standest before me Mighty and full of
love. Thou One Alone, imperishable for ever, and
just and merciful. Praise be unto Thee, Jehovih,
Who art greater than All!
All Sea ted .
READING (short explanation).
RITE OF CONSOLATION 25
H ym n.
[All kneel, or incline.]
Second Priest. O Light of Lights, we come
before Thy Shrine this morning, our hearts full of
thanksgiving for the knowledge that has come to us
of Thy Great Magnitude—for Thou hast revealed
Thyself in the Light that cometh to our souls.
Wherefore we cry, Hail! Holy Light! Creator
Supreme! May Thy Love abound in us, that we
may bring forth the fruits of Thine in-dwelling—
the gifts of the spirit and the growth unto life
eternal. May we, in realizing the nearness of the
world of Es, be lifted up on the wings of faith unto
the gates of the everlasting day.
That the knowledge that Thou art in the seen and
unseen be truly revealed to u s ; that never more
shall doubt walk by our side ; and that the higher
self be unfolded ; we petition this mom that Thou
wilt hear our supplication unto Thee, which we
make in the full knowledge that rule of growth
needs a pure desire on our part and a receptiveness
for the response thereto.
For we are assured, and our experience hath ever
shown, that Thy Will is done by Thy ministering
angels who work in the soul of things.
Somewhat louder. All ye who are assembled are
now invited to join in the Litany.
[Precentor and Congregation Chant Alternate Lines.]
Precentor. Father, grant us the peace of Thy
Presence.
Response. Give us faith that, by Thy help we
can transcend corpor.
26 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
Precentor.
to us.
RITE OF CONSOLATION 2 J
May the spiritual worlds be revealed
Response.
Precentor.
Response.
Precentor.
trial.
And Thy Love abound in us.
Give us of Thy Wisdom.
Give us of Thy Love.
Give us strength in the hour of our
Response. Grace in the hour of temptation.
Precentor. That we be efficient in Thy service
may physical strength increase.
Response. May Om the power to receive be ours.
Precentor. And Na the going forth in might be
our praise.
Response. O One All Mind, quicken our minds
in right thought.
Precentor. Quicken our hearts in sympathy.
Response. Teach us dispassion and sympathy.
Precentor. Give us Thine Ahoma.
Response. May Agni, the Light of Thy True
Presence, bum within us.
Precentor. May all that is untrue fail before
Thee.
Response. May the unreal give place to the real.
28 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
Precentor.
Response.
Precentor.
Thine angels.
Response.
Precentor.
rejoice.
Response.
Precentor.
Response.
Precentor.
Response.
Precentor.
Father! I rejoice in Thee.
0 Om! my heart rests in Thee.
Jehovih! Thou leadest me through
Therefore I do not fear.
E’en in the valley of death will I
For my Essean home is beyond.
Guide my feet, O Father I
May the hour of worship ever call me.
Teach me Thy wise decrees.
May I do my utmost in Thy service.
And when the light of the higher
mysteries breaketh o’er my soul.
Response. May I still seek Thee in deepest
So shall my spirit shine with Thy
humility.
Precentor.
Glory.
Response. And when I enter the etherean
worlds at last.
Precentor. Then shall I know Thine Orian Gods.
Response. But even now may Etherea be bom
within me.
Precentor. And the wisdom of Thy Holy Angels
grow upon my soul.
Response. May I learn forgiveness.
Precentor. May I find a fuller revelation of
Thee in Love Adorable.
Response. May Aheba be revealed to me.
Precentor. And Amereth be revealed to me. •
Response. May my troubled heart receive Thy
consolation.
All. Come, therefore, O Great Spirit! sanctify
and renew again Thy dwelling place—my soul.
Amen.
RITE OF CONSOLATION 29
SUPPLICATO.
[Seated or kneeling.]
Rock of Ages, full and free,
Let me build myself on Thee.
Bountiful Thou art and high,
I Thy Name would glorify ;
Rock of great infinitude,
Fill me with Thy plenitude.
Transcendental, Light sublime!
Thy One Name throughout all time
Like a rock shall ever stay ; •
And the Light of Kosmon Day,
Calling all, both near and far,
Hails the bright glad Morning Star.
Rock of Ages, full and free,
Building now my house on Thee,
In this hour of prayer I seek
Strengthening where I may be weak ;
Warning where I may seek wrong ;
Build me—Thou alone art strong.
Rock of Ages, full and free,
May my faith be built on Thee,
And this solemn hour of prayer,
Bring Thy Holy Angels where
Hearts are yearning to receive
From life's cares a short reprieve.
Holy Angels, bending o'er,
In the Father's Name restore—
Shattered hopes and faith that's weak,
Whilst we, humbly praying, seek
Power to journey on life's way
Till we hail Eternal Day.
Amen.
• [Here the Priests and Assistants stand below the
Shrine, and the Suis between ; if no Suis be
30 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
present then one chosen delivereth the message, to
any who may come, as his soul guideth him.]
First Priest. Let any who seek light on the way
now approach and let the soul interpret the message
given in the Father's Name.
The Suis, either in trance or under the light of inspira­
tion, takes the right hand of any who approach, saying:—
Child of the Eternal Father's Kingdom, let these
words sink into thine heart in answer to thy prayers
uttered or unexpressed.
Then follows the full message. Ail or any of the Congrega­
tion may receive of this blessing.
HYMN OF P raise (during which all return to the Altar).
Notices. Collection.
First Priest, turning towards the Shrine, offers
Prayer of Thanksgiving.
RITE OF CONSOLATION 31
Benediction.
ESSORA RITE
Meditation during Voluntary.
One B e l l : All R ise .
Chief. Hail, Faithists in Jehovih! [Sign—The
Name.]
Response. All Hail, Worthy Chief! [Sign—Right
hand raised.]
Chief. Under what symbol doth the All Light
manifest in Confraternity ?
Response. By the Unity in Wisdom, Love, and
Power. [Sign—Triangle.]
Chief. In this acknowledgment is our strength,
and faith at all times shall quicken our souls'
aspirations.
The All Light saith : To know Me is to know all
things. He who striveth to Me is My chosen. He
who knoweth not Me, proveth not M e; he who
knoweth Me cannot prove Me.
To every self I am The Self of that self. He who
perfecteth that self which is in all seifs, such a
man is one with Me. To travel on such a road,
that is the right road.
32
ESSORA RITE
Hear Me, O man! My Voice cometh upon the
souls of men ; thy All Highest is Me, thy all lowest
is sin. Two things only set I before thee, O man,
the self that is Myself, and the self that is thyself.
Which wilt thou serve ?
All Respond. In the air and in the fruits thereof
is my substance ; into the air riseth my spirit up­
ward unto Thee, O my Father in heaven!
Quicker hast Thou made my spirit than my flesh;
quicker Thou my soul than the dust of the earth.
Who can comprehend Thy handiwork? Who
else but Thee knoweth the delight of my soul unto
Thee ? Verily art Thou the comfort of the living,
the solace of the dying, and the joy of the dead.
I was not, and I knew n o t; Thy hand moved
and brought me forth, and lo, here I am! Yea,
Thy spirit moved upon Mi, the mother earth, and
I am one of the fruits thereof.
How shall I glorify Thee, and in Thy service how
shall I render Thee recompense ?
Chief. Jehovih saith: In a fraternity thou
shalt practise thy highest light, and, by constant
aspiration and good works done unto others, thou
shalt develop thy soul unto fullest growth, and
thus become receptive to the guidance of the Lords
of Wisdom, and the Voice of the All One speaking
c
33
in the Omnific silence within, until at last those
things shall come, of which it is written in the
sacred records : That the reign of Peace, Love, and
Wisdom shall be established in the Kosmon Race.
Therefore to this end let us renew our Covenant,
and before the Altar of Jehovih make our vows of
fidelity, that we may attain unto that fuller growth
to the honour and glory of Jehovih. Amen.
A l l R e c i t e t h e D e c l a r a t i o n (see p a g e 6).
Chief. Let us pray.
A l l R e c i t e , s e a t e d o r k n e e l i n g .
J o s h u 's P r a y e r (see p a g e 5).
[Further short invocation by Chief.]
H y m n .
R e a d i n g f o r t h e E v e n i n g .
Two B e l l s : A l l R i s e .
Chief. To Jehovih all adoration and glory for
ever. Amen.
Response. By and through Him is all life and
motion and power, things seen and unseen.
Chief. Nor is there an angel in heaven so high
3 4 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
ESSORA RITE 35
or sufficiently wise to comprehend Jehovih in His
entirety, nor to see Him as thou seest thy fellow
man.
Response. For He is within all, beyond and
over all.
Chief. Being Ever Present in all places.
Response. Doing by virtue of His Presence.
Chief. Quickening all the living.
Response. Adorable above all things.
Chief. Even as the sun is to the light of day,
so is Jehovih to the understanding of all the living.
All. Whereon to contemplate is the road to
everlasting life, rising in Wisdom, Love, and
Power for ever. Amen.
A l l S e a t e d .
Chief. God said: Ye shall assemble for the
communion of angels regularly and maintain inter­
course with them, doing this in the Name Jehovih,
and for spiritual light in regard to spiritual things.
But when ye assemble, let no man nor spirit be as
a spectator to others, but as all men labour in the
field to gather the harvest, so shall all members
in the assembly, by prayer or by music, contribute
a glory unto the Father.
Hereupon all recite. Unfold within me Thine
attributes, O Jehovih, that I may manifest forth
Thy Light. May Thine angels now draw near and
in this sacred communion aid us all. Amen.
[Still seated or kneeling the following Hymn is sung.]
36 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
SUPPLICATO.
In Thy House, O Father,
We Thy children meet,
And in this communion
Thy One-Presence greet.
From the self's distractions
Keep our hearts here free,
That we in Thy keeping
All at peace shall be.
Teach us how to know Thee,
And Thy Lords to know,
That in paths of wisdom
We with them may go.
Learning of Thy power,
Making all men free ;
How by contemplation
We unfold in Thee.
ESSORA RITE 37
As the Light of Kosmon
Greets the Dawning Race,
May we as Thy builders
Find in it our place.
In our contemplations
Be Thou now our Guide ;
Whilst the gates etherean,
Angels open wide. Amen.
[Here the congregation sit in quiet contemplation and com­
munion while a short Voluntary, with slow music, is
played.]
T h e L ig h t is g iv e n fo r t h e E v e n in g .
V o l u n t a r y .
H y MN (during which the Collection is taken).
N o t ic e s.
Th ree B ells : Al l R ise .
Chief. B rothers and Sisters, the sands of time,
etc. (see p. y).
EVENSONG OF EMETH
(SEFFER YETZAD)
Meditation during Voluntary.
H y m n .
Chiefs Hail, Faithists in Jehovih!
Responses All Hail, Worthy Chief!
Chiefs Under what symbol doth the All Light
manifest in Confraternity ?
Responses By the Unity in Wisdom, Love, and
Power.
Chiefs In this acknowledgment is our strength,
and faith at all times shall quicken our souls*
aspirations.
LET US Pray (Invocation by Chief).
[All seated or kneeling.]
AUs Jehovih, Who rulest in heaven and earth,
hallowed be Thy Name, and reverent amongst men.
Sufficient unto me is my bread ; and as much as I
forgive those that trespass against me, so make
3»
EVENSONG OF EMETH 39
Thou me steadfast to shun temptation; for all
honour and glory are Thine, worlds without end.
Amen.
All R ise .
The Declaration (See page 6)
R eading (All seated).
A nthem or H y m n.
Recited alternately by two Priests (Congregation
seated).
Two kinds of voices have I, saith Jehovih : The
silent voice and the audible voice.
All men I created susceptible to one or the other
of My voices, and many to both.
One man heareth My voice in the breeze, and in
thunder, and in music.
Another heareth My voice in the flowers of the
field, and in the scenery of the mountains.
And yet another feeleth My inspiration ; and he
skippeth up the mountain side, and tireth not on
the way.
He that neither seeth nor feeleth My inspiration,
goeth up the mountain in great labour.
In proportion as man is clear in his corporeality
and in his spirit, so discemeth he My inspiration.
And if he have great purity as well, then he
shapeth My Light into corporeal words.
These I taught man to call My revealed words.
Nevertheless, no corporeal man created I per­
fect ; neither can any man reveal My words per­
fectly.
But I created the way open to all men, to try
to reveal Me.
According to man's approximation to perfect
manhood, so reveal I unto him, by My Presence
and My words.
According to man's imperfection in manhood,
so doth not My inspiration manifest on his senses.
Perfect manhood created I possible, in equal
corporeal and spiritual senses.
Strong corporeal senses and weak spiritual senses
detract man from My Presence, and make him
infidel to My Person.
Such a man denieth My inspiration and the
inspiration of My angels. He is little more than a
forest tree, which hath a trunk and many branches,
but moveth not from its place.
Therefore in this Kosmon Era shall the Light of
Jehovih be established anew, by the inspiration
coming to the souls of men. His seers shall speak
words of heavenly wisdom, and His prophets the
words of wise counsel. And the Light of the Soul—
40 K0SM0N CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
the All Highest—shall bum as one lambent flame
in the reign of Universal Love and Peace.
And His glory shall be the glory of the sun,
moon, and stars, and man shall leam to fulfil his
destiny—to establish the Higher Self—Self of the
All Self within—to accomplish that which is his
birthright; and to walk the earth guided by the
Angels of Wisdom.
Both Priests in unison. Therefore do we labour
to found Jehovih’s Kingdom on E arth ; to teach
man uprightness and the way of life, and, con­
jointly with the angels who do Jehovih's Will,
direct the growing Race by the powers of spirit and
the law of the higher life. Amen.
H y m n.
The Light for the E v ening is g iv en .
Voluntary.
H ymn (during which the Collection is taken).
N otices.
Three B ells : All R is e .
Chief. Brothers and Sisters, the sands of time,
etc. (see p. 7).
EVENSONG OF EMETH 4 1
RITE OF
ZARATHUSTRIAN MAS
HA
Procession of Priests around the Temple with music or
music and singing.
Priest. Beloved Brethren, it is well that we
have gathered together to celebrate this sacred
Mas, whereby the loved ones who have passed into
the life of spirit shall be blest by these our labours
even as it is written :—
Thrice at the setting sun shall ye assemble and
sing for the soul of the dead, remembering his
virtues in great praise. Then shall ye deliver his
spirit unto My Asaphs for the mansion I have
built, and I will render unto him the delights of My
kingdoms according to the light of his under­
standing.
And again it is written: Then came the first
night of the new moon and Zarathustra went into
the place of worship and a great multitude also
came in. So I'hua'Mazda said : This is Mas night
for the spirits of the dead. I will sing and pray for
the spirit of the king, and afterward for all spirits
who are in darkness.
Therefore, beloved Brethren, in regarding this
42
as a solemn obligation, let us unite in an act of
sacred service that, by our prayers and aspirations,
our loved ones in Es shall be aided into the fullest
glory of the life beyond the veil. Amen.
Response. Amen.
Priest.
LET US PRAY (Invocation by Chief).
[All seated or kneeling.]
R e a d i n g .
H y m n .
A d d r e s s .
T h r e e B e l l s : A l l R i s e .
Chief Priest. To sing and rejoice in Me, O My
beloved ; and to attain to great knowledge ; these
are the roads I created; shining, diversified and
broader than the imagination of man. By death
provide I the resurrection of the souls of the dead.
Mourn not for my proceedings, O My beloved!
But be ye wise and rejoice with discretion in the
glory of My creations.
All Respond. Thou, my Creator, and of great
glory, Who fashioned atmospherea full of heavens ;
adorned the intermediate world with Thy mighty
hand, resplendent with holiness in Thy praise.
Praise be to Thee, Thou Highest, in Whom the
ZARATHUSTRIAN MAS 43
worlds shine with the light of the Almighty! Thy
three great worlds, the corporeal, the atmospherean
and the etherean, bright and full of holiness in Thy
praise.
Praise Jehovih, ye atmosphereans, ye es'yan
fruit of the Almighty. Sing to Him in your plateaux
of millions of cities, in praise of the Creator pro­
claim the multitude of your places.
[All seated or kneeling, a PETITIONARY HYMN
is sung.]
Priest. All ye who desire to remember the loved
ones who have passed into Es life may now in due
order approach the Shrine and offer a prayer on
behalf of one or more whom you have in mind, such
prayers to be an offering of love and joy to the
Father for the risen one, that love may increase
and, if it be the Father's will that they shall now
approach, then shall love flow from each to each in
sweet and heavenly benediction. Amen.
Here those wishing to remember any Esean or Esyan,
may now approach and before the Shrine offer a prayer
such as follows :—
A PRAYER THAT MAY BE SAID AT THE
SHRINE
O Eternal Father, I remember before Thee . . .
who (or whom) in love I have in mind. May joy
4 4 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
ZARATHUSTRIAN MAS 45
surround him (or her) giving him (or her) Thy
Peace, and the Light of Thy Resurrection draw
him (or her) onward and upward to Thee. Amen.
The Petitioner may add other words, or vary the
prayer if so desired. He, or she, may deposit a few
grains of incense, though the Rite does not command
this.
[During the above aU are seated or kneeling.]
Three B ells : All R ise .
Priest. O Eternal Spirit, we thank Thee for the
knowledge of Life Eternal. We praise Thy Name
that our loved ones, standing in the light of Es, are
enabled in this solemn hour to draw near and mingle
with us in this sacred rite. And now we particu­
larly bring before Thee . . . who has (or have)
recently entered the hadan life. O may Thy peace
and love be granted unto him (or them). May the
knowledge of the Es worlds be unfolded to him (or
them), and grant, Our Father, that he (or they) may
now be enabled to start on that glorious journey, on­
ward and upward to Thee for ever, returning to us
according to Thy Holy Will, Who art Father of All.
Amen.
AU Respond. Glory be to Thee, Most High, Our
Father-Mother, Who bearest us in Thine arms.
Hail, Supreme and Ever Living! We praise Thee
for our loved ones, who have passed into the Esean
land. All praise and glory be to Thee for ever.
Amen.
P r a y er fo r a ll Sp ir it s in D a r k n e s s .
H y m n o f P r a is e .
B e n e d ic t io n .
P r o c e s s i o n o f P r i e s t s , who afterwards make the sign
of the Sacred Name before the Altar.
4 6 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
RITE OF INTERCESSION
[The following ritual is providedfor use when it is
desired to make intercession for any particular pur­
pose, or to give additional opportunity for personal
intercession.]
[Open with Essora Rite (p. 32) as far as the
Reading.]
H ym n.
Short Address.
H ymn or Voluntary.
1
P rayer and Litany from R ite of Consolation.
(See page 25.)
Gong. All R ise.
First Priest. Beloved Brethren, it is given unto
us to seek the Heavenly Father's aid at all times
that we may be equipped on the path of our un-
foldment; nurtured . by His Immortal Love ;
strengthened by His Grace, and aided by those who
watch and minister from the heavenly worlds
beyond.
47
Therefore, that our faith may be renewed, let
us seek His aid this night, and we shall be quick­
ened with the Inner Light and praise the Giver of
all gifts by lives devoted to His Service. Amen.
H ym n.
Here Intercession is made at the Wheel as in the
Ascensional Mas. Priest invites with suitable words.
[Chief, or other Priest, offers thanks.]
H ymn of Praise, w ith Collection.
N otices.
Chief. Brothers and Sisters, the sands of time,
etc. (see p. 7).
48 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
A FORM OF HOME SERVICE
FOR FAITHISTS
%k
This could also be used when two or three Faithists
meet together occasionally.
HYMN (sung or recited).
In the Name of Jehovih (sign) and unto Whom
be all honour and glory. For He is the life of all the
living and the soul of all souls.
• For even as the sun is to the light of day, so
is Jehovih to the understanding of all the living,
whereon to contemplate is the road to Everlasting
Life, rising in Wisdom, Love, and Power for ever.
O Thou All Light, henceforth I (or we) will
eschew the praise of men and, folding my (or our)
hands against worldly fame, strive to come more
completely into At-one-ment with Thee. Amen.
[The invocation may here be extended.]
[Reading from Oahspe. If two or three be
assembled, then discourse upon the teachings and
the Higher Life-—
or the discourse may be
deferred.]
Another Hymn may now be sung or recited.
49
D
Then read:
God said: Ye shall assemble for the com­
munion of Angels regularly and maintain inter­
course with them, for in no other way can ye
demonstrate the continued life of the spirit, doing
this in the Name Jehovih, and for spiritual light in
regard to spiritual things. Whoso consulteth the
spirits for earthly things shall fall in darkness* But
when ye assemble, let no man nor spirit be as a
spectator to others, but as all men labour in the
field to gather the harvest, so shall all members in
the assembly, by prayer or by music, contribute a
glory unto the Father. Amen. •
Then all R ecite :
Unfold within me Thine attributes, O Jehovih,
that I may manifest forth Thy Light. May Thine
Angels now draw near, and in this sacred com­
munion aid us all. Amen.
[Ye shaU then sit in quietness : and in the harmony and
peace of thy surroundings we shaU draw near, and
manifest by impression, or suis, or even sargis, and the
Father shall quicken ye to be receptive to our ministra­
tions. This shall be to ye bread from Heaven and Angels
shall converse with ye whereof and in what manner
Oahspe speaks.]
Here, after further hymns, and Prayer of Thanks,
shall end the service in the Name of the All Light.
5 0 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
MARRIAGE RITE
After the Bride and Bridegroom have come into the
Church, or Community Room, the Priest, Rabbah, or
officiating Chief shall call them to the Shrine, and say:—
Brother . . . and Sister . . . , ye have come
seeking to be united in the holy bonds of marriage
according to the sacred rites of the Kosmon Church.
Ye are conjointly making this one of the supreme
moments of your earthly existence, the issues of
which are so momentous that we must here pause
to consider them.
According to the strict Zarathustrian law, he
who taketh a wife, or she who taketh a husband,
should not marry again should the partner die.
Neither should they who are united in marriage
seek to annul the marriage tie by laws of the land
without the consent of the High Rabbah; nor
should they who have been so separated seek to
marry another.
But this act of marriage does not bind ye to
the strict Zarathustrian Law ; saving that at any
time ye should seek to enter the Zarathustrian
Ministry called the Priesthood ; in which case the
law becometh binding.
But touching the covenants of the Church, they
51
require of us that we should at all times be examples
in the world; in which case thy home life should
be such as becometh children of the All-Father, and
Faithists. Nor should the world know of domestic
troubles arising from any disharmony as between
those who have been united by these rites. The
Rabbah would at all times hear those who are in
trouble or distress.
But inharmony shall not come into this unity if
ye do cleave unto one another in true comradeship
of heart and mind.
If it be Jehovih’s Will, and ye have children bom
unto you, they should early be dedicated to Jehovih
and His Holy Work. For ye are children of the
Light and may bring forth heirs unto suis.
Therefore bear in mind the covenants and have
no fear. Love, cherish and uphold each other and
the blessings of the Higher Life will unfold in thy
united lives. So may it be. Amen.
Give ear to the Holy Word as touching marriage.
[Reading from Oahspe or the Sacred Writings.]
The Priest then stands before the Shrine, saying:
O Jehovih, we come before Thy Shrine this day,
and seek to unite in the holy ties of marriage two
52 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
MARRIAGE RITE
of Thy children. We know Thy Light is upon them,
for Thou dost bless all who desire to serve Thee.
We earnestly and humbly pray that this bond shall
be one of sweetness, purity and truth ; uniting
them in fellowship of heart and soul unto the Life
in Es.
Let not the word of evil ever be spoken against
them. Keep them united, and may Thy Holy
Angels of the Presence bless their home, and may
all that is good and bright dwell therein. Keep
them, Father, by Thy Love. Amen.
Beloved Sister (pre-name) will you take the hand
of Brother (pre-name). Brother . . . unite thy
hand with Sister. . . .
Brother . . . repeat after me : Sister . . . here
before the Shrine of the All Light I take thy hand
as a token of my earnest desire to unite thy life
with mine. Jehovih is my strength. Amen.
Repeat for Sister.
"The marriage ring is then brought in a
small glass vessel containing perfumed
Water—Symbol water. The Priest takes it out and
of Spirit. hands it to the brother, who puts it on
thè bride's fìnger without drying it.
As thou dost place the ring, repeat these words :
“ As a token of the spiritual bond that shall
henceforth exist between us."
53
KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
54
Then the bride shall repeat as follows :—
" I accept this token and shall henceforth regard
it as a token of the spiritual bond.”
Incense is then brought, and during the singing (if any)
the Priest offers incense at the Shrine and then censeth
the bride and bridegroom.
Then, all kneel. Let us pray.
Joshu’s prayer in unison (see p. 5).
Further prayer of thanks by Priest.
Then, all rise and recite the Declaration (p. 6).
All seated, and the Priest delivers the charge.
Optional.
rIt shall be sometimes customary
for the Priest to take a vessel from
the Altar containing unfermented
wine and offer the same to the
Bride and Bridegroom, after par­
taking himself, saying:
-< " Henceforth ye shall partake of
one cup. And we thy brethren
shall share with ye the delights of
spiritual Brotherhood.” Amen.
A little child shall here give the
bride a white flower, and the
^bridegroom a yellow flower.
MARRIAGE RITE
This m ust
be observed.
They then sign their names in line with
each other—bridegroom first—in the
Community Register, and the Priest or
Rabbah shall draw an oval ring around
enclosing both names and sign his own
outside.
55
He then calls for a thrice Hail!
B e n e d ic t io n .
Joyful singing and music, and the bride and bridegroom
march forth with linked arms (sometimes preceded with
incense and music).
Notes.—The Marriage Rite may be performed by any
Rabbah, Priest or Community Chief. Or, in special cases,
by one appointed by the Gd. Rabbah to officiate, who is
not either Priest, Rabbah, or Community Chief.
In cases where Churches are licensed to perform marri­
ages the necessary legal documents must be signed as
required.
FUNERAL OR BURIAL RITE
When this Service is preceded by one in the Temple,
then that part of the Service could be as follows :
O p e n i n g H y m n .
J o s h u 's P r a y e r (see p . 5).
P r a y e r b y P r i e s t .
R e a d i n g from Bon's Book of Praise relating to
the dead. Words of comfort by the officiating Priest.
H y m n .
The body is then taken forth and the rest of the Service
'is conducted at the graveside.
Priest (going before the cortège to the grave).
Whoso dieth in faith hath prepared the way for
the resurrection of the soul. Now, behold, hath
come the day of the soul's resurrection.
Jehovih saith : I created the earth, and fashioned
it and placed it in the firmament ; and by My
Presence brought forth man a living being. A
corporeal body gave I him that he might learn
corporeal things ; and death I made that he might
rise in the firmament and inheritmy etherean worlds.
56
FUNERAL OR BURIAL RITE
Things that man seeth created I with a beginning
and an end; but the unseen I made of endless
duration. Open thine eyes, 0 man! There is a time
of genesis, a time of childhood, a time of old age
and a time of death. But the Life of Es is eternal.
Therefore thrice blessed are they who die with
this faith: thrice blessed are they who, having
heard, believe : for verily is the way of life made
easier for them. The Life of Es is a higher call:
therefore by death we enter the gates of everlasting
day. Yea, to rise in the beauteous firmament unto
endless resurrection. And, even as the angels in
those spheres of life do rejoice, so shall we rejoice
with angels, archangels, and all the glorious hosts of
heaven, when death shall have been vanquished.
May this faith live in us. Amen.
Then, having come to the graveside :
Our Sister (Brother) . . . having laid aside this
earthly body, and having entered the spiritual
worlds in a spiritual body, we bid farewell to the
corporeal form, and even as it is returned to the
elements from which it was builded, we glorify
our Father for the purpose it hath served. He is
Wisdom ; He is Love ; He is Power. In Him,
by and through Him, we live, move and have our
57
being, for He is the Life of all life, the Soul of all
souls. Amen.
Here the Assistant brings water and asperges brush,
and sprinkles the grave—or if the body is to be
cremated, sprinkles the coffin, saying:
With water, symbol of cleansing and the spirit
of life, I consecrate this place (or receptacle) to
receive (or carry) the body we now resign to the
realm of the elements. Let naught defile it. Amen.
As the body is lowered, the Priest says:
Mine is the Tree of Life, for ever growing and
rich in blossoms and sweet perfumes. The dead
are m ine: the spirits of the dead My young
blossoms full of promise, speaking soul words for
the glory of My heavens.
Whom I quickened into life are Mine, and I
watch over them fatherly and in great wisdom;
nor suffer I them to go out of being for ever. And
I provide my heavenly places broad, boundless,
so that the soul of man can never reach the bound­
ary thereof. Weep not for the dead, beloved: I
have places of delight for the righteous, full of
rejoicing and wonderful.
O Jehovih, Thy words have spoken to us from
the Sacred Writ, and as we now commit the mortal
58 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
remains of our Brother (Sister) to the earth (or
elements) our minds turn in love to where he dwells
in spirit. We thank Thee for the knowledge of life
eternal. We thank Thee that Thou dost permit our
loved ones to return to us according to Thy Holy
Will. Father lead us : through Thine Angels lead,
O lead us. Lead us till earth's shadows pass away.
Amen.
Dust unto dust we return the"] Here a handful of
body of our Brother (Sister) to > earth is thrown
the elements. J int0 t1ie8rave-
But his soul has risen as a \ Here a flower is
flower new-born into Es, *
And though he be dead, yet\H e re leaves of ever-
he truly liveth. i t S S g S ^
Though we part in sorrow we shall meet in joy.
Beloved Brethren: Our Brother (Sister) is
gone: yet he hath not gone. We remember his
virtues with great praise. Were not his feet swift
to run errands of mercy? Were not his hands
ready to do acts of kindness ? Yea, were not the
words of wise counsel at his tongue's end? His
soul made bright the dark places of earth. He has
risen as the star that rises at eventide. May grace
be given us to run the race worthily. Amen.
FUNERAL OR BURIAL RITE 59
6 o KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
A hymn may here be sung.
The above passage is varied in the case of a child, as
follows :
Beloved Brethren, this little child hath gone
from us, yet we realize that his soul is in the realms
of spirit. We are reminded how the gentle Iesu of
Nazareth gathered the children around Him during
his earthly day, and said, " Of such is the Kingdom
of Heaven.”
This sweet blossom of Shalam shall flourish in
the garden of spirit; his soul shall grow in the
Kingdom of Light, surrounded by all that is holy
and pure. Yet shall he sometimes return to mingle
with those who are loved and dear, even to those
who are left behind on earth. Take comfort in this
thought, O bereaved ones. Jehovih doeth all things
well.
[Further words of comfort may here be used.]
Priest proceeds. O Eternal Father, we, seek­
ing to do Thy Holy Will in all things, pray that
Thy Light shall ever guide us in the right way.
May, therefore, our thoughts, words and deeds
at all times redound to the resurrection of him
whom we have this day committed into Thy
keeping, and as he retumeth again and again to
us, according to Thy Holy Will, and by and through
FUNERAL OR BURIAL RITE 6l
the light of Thy Holy Heavenly Councils, may our
aspirations and good works aid him, and Thy
Kingdom be the more blessed because of this com­
munion.
Father, we pray that Thou wilt grant us the
Peace of Thy Presence, that these our hearts'
desires may be fulfilled, and Thy Kingdom come
on Earth even as it is in Heaven. Amen.
Beloved Brethren, the mortal is returned to
earth (or the elements) and his spirit is newborn in
Heaven. Let us henceforth think of him as in
heaven.
All respond. May this be so, and we remember
our Brother (Sister) as in Heaven.
A hymn, such as the following, may here be sung.
With the sweet word of peace
We bid our brother go;
Peace as a river to increase,
And ceaseless flow.
With the calm word of prayer
We earnestly commend
Our brother to Thy watchful care,
Father and Friend.
With the strong word of faith
We stay ourselves on Thee,
That Thou, O Om, in life and death
Our help shall be.
Then the bright word of hope
Shall on our parting gleam,
And tell of joys beyond the scope
Of earth-born dream.
Amen.
B enedictio n.
Notes on the Funeral Rite.
The robes worn by the Officiating Priest, and
by the Assisting Priest if of the same status, are
a dark blue under-robe made after the fashion of a
cassolet, and a white robe over this with short full
sleeves, and reaching to just below the knees. If a
head-dress is worn it should be a dark blue or
black, low-crowned, rimless cap, or fez.
62 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
DEDICATION OF CHILDREN
Two candles are required for the altar, together with
a small bowl of water which may be consecrated previously.
Any child under the age of fourteen may be dedicated
provided th a t:
(1) Both the parents (or guardians in the case of an
orphan) are members of the Church, or
(2) If only one parent is a member of the Church the
other parent must state his or her agreement to the
ceremony being held.
(3) If the child has been adopted by Faithists but its
parents are still living their permission for the
dedication must be obtained.
(4) If sponsors have been chosen to share the spiritual
responsibility with the child's parents, they also
must all be members of the Church.
Therefore, all parents, guardians and sponsors who
undertake this dedication must be Faithists.
When all is in readiness the parents (and sponsors if
any) take their places with the child near to the altar
steps.
The priest and his assistant proceed from the vestry.
C h ief (facing the altar intones) :
In the Name of Jehovih (sign) and unto Whom
be all honour and glory. For he is the Life of all the
living and the Soul of all souls.
For even as the sun is to the light of day, so is
Jehovih to the understanding of all the living,
63
whereon to contemplate is the road to Everlasting
Life, rising in Wisdom, Love and Power for ever.
Amen.
Let u s P r a y .
Eternal Father, who dost give the little children
into our keeping, we pray Thee that Thy Light shall
be with us indeed as we this hour dedicate this
young life to Thee. May his soul be filled with love,
joy and peace, and as his young mind opens, as the
flower opens to the sun, may he truly turn to Thee
Who art the Sun of our souls. Grant that his angel
guardians shall have power, and at all times protect
him from harm and danger.
May he grow into a knowledge of the angelic
states and ever strive to serve Thee, cleaving unto
the holy faith that is ours, and prospering where
we may fail in the founding of Thy Kingdom on
earth. Amen.
64 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
J oshu's P r ay er .
T he D eclaration.
(All are now seated. Water is consecrated with the usual
formula if this was not done before the service.)
Priest, and his assistant, then stand before the parents.
He says:
In the Sacred Law it is written, Then Tae said :
“ And over these babes, which Thou hast en­
trusted to me, will I be as loving and true as were
they mine own blood and kin, sons and daughters.
According to Thy Light, which Thou mayest bestow
upon me, will I raise them up to know Thee, and
to be a glory in Thy Kingdom.
“ First of my teaching unto them shall be, to
make them know Thee, and to remember that Thy
Eye is ever upon them, and Thy hand above them,
to bless them according to their wisdom, truth, love
and purity.
“ And I will teach them the way of the com­
munion of Thy Angels; to develop them in suis
and sargis. Teaching them to live for the spirit
within, rather than for corpor.
“ Teaching them by books and instruments.
" Teaching them useful trades and occupations.
“ Teaching them music and worship.
“ Teaching them dancing and gymnastics.
“ And in all things developing in them all the
talents Thou hast created in them, that they may
grow up to be an honour and a glory on the earth,
and to rejoice because Thou hast created them
alive.
" And I will emancipate them from infancy at
fourteen years of age ; and bestow upon them the
E
DEDICATION OF CHILDREN 65
rights of man and woman, to their thoughts, words,
deeds, choice, and actions.
“ Throwing upon them at that age, their respon­
sibility unto Thee, for their thoughts, words, ideas
and behaviour, as fully as I claim the same unto
mine own self.”
Beloved brethren, parents, guardians and spon­
sors, in this solemn hour you stand before the altar
of Jehovih to dedicate to Him this child (these
children), that under the guidance of our Church'he
(they) may grow up endowed with all noble virtues,
manifesting ever the light of the higher self, the
All Highest within.
We are always moved to rejoice when young
lives are brought to the altar and we do not with­
hold from them the beauties of true religion no
matter what our own ideas may be.
Moreover, let it be understood that this rite is
not binding upon them as Faithists after they reach
the age of fourteen years, when if they so desire
they can be freed from the covenants which you
now make for them, in which case they shall then
have full spiritual liberty.
But this rite is a dedication, and as such cannot
fail to be productive of good in their young lives.
May therefore the Father's Blessing rest upon
6 6 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
you who now bring this child (these children) to
this shrine. Amen.
Will you therefore now rise and repeat after me
this vow :
O Jehovih, our Eternal Father, I now dedicate
unto Thee and Thy Church this child . . . (child's
full name) . . . and I will at all times train him in
the ways of right doing and right thought, and lead
him unto nobility of heart and mind, that he may
truly grow in the Light of Kosmon to the further­
ance of Thy Kingdom on Earth.
May Thy Blessing rest upon him and angels in
Light ever inspire, uphold and guide him, from
this time forth forever. Amen.
The assistant brings the Holy Water from the altar and
the priest, dipping the first two fingers therein, makes the
sign on the child's forehead, saying :
Unto Thee, O Jehovih, I dedicate this child.
May Thine Angels ever protect and inspire him and
may he never desire to depart from Thy Light and
Thy Holy Work. Amen.
A ll: Amen. Amen. Amen.
Then the priest shall take the child in his hands, and
facing the altar shall say :
O Thou One All Light, Father and Mother of us
all, this child is presented at Thine altar and
DEDICATION OF CHILDREN 67
68 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
dedicated unto Thee, being made one with us in the
Light from Thyself which ever guides all who truly
seek Thee. That he may ever be reminded of this
solemn act and that the glory of the Kingdom be
manifest within his spiritual being I do now impart
unto him the spiritual name of . . . Amen.
The child is then returned to its parents, and all are
seated.
Short E xhortation.
H ym n.
B enediction.
RITE OF EMANCIPATION
Chief. Beloved brethren, there are some
amongst us who were dedicated unto Jehovih and
the Kosmon Church before they attained the age
of discretion, which age since ancient days has been
reckoned as fourteen years.
These young brethren were dedicated by their
parents, or guardians, and sponsors who promised
to train them in the Light of Jehovih’s Kingdom.
It is now our duty unto both, firstly to release the
parents from their covenant, secondly, to emanci­
pate the children from the bond, who thereafter
shall enter the Brotherhood under covenant of the
Declaration if they so desire ; that they may hence­
forth walk in the Light of their own responsibility
unto Jehovih.
So may they, like the awakening of Nature in the
springtime of the year, awaken to a consciousness
of their high calling, realising in full the measure
of their responsibility in the founding of the King­
dom of Light and at last even attain to hear the
Creator's Voice.
Let us pray :
[Prayer for a blessing on the young brethren.]
69
A n e l d e r Sister or assistant approaches with the youths and
says to t h e Chief:
Honoured Brother, these axe those who were
early dedicated unto the Eternal Father and the
Kosmon Church. They now come to this Rite of
Emancipation, that their parents, or guardians,
and sponsors may be released from their covenants,
and that these who do so come, may of themselves,
freely and voluntarily enter the Church under the
Covenant of our Declaration, that Jehovih’s Glory
be enhanced in their lives, unto the founding of
His Kingdom. Amen.
Chief, Children of Jehovih, ye are approaching
the time in your lives when the full responsibilities
of a corpor existence will have to be faced. Since
childhood we have cared for you, watched over
you, and you have been like flowers tended in a
garden. Now we would have you understand that
no longer can those who first brought you unto the
altar of Jehovih be wholly responsible for your
spiritual welfare. Yet in all love we would keep you
near to that which has been a boon to us a ll; the
ministry of Jehovih*s Angels, and the Kosmon
Church.
7 0 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
Slight pause.
Chief (holding his right hand aloft) :
RITE OF EMANCIPATION 7 1
In the Name of Jehovih our Heavenly Father
and by the power vested in me as His Minister, I
declare the parents, guardians, and sponsors of
these youths absolved from their Covenant of
dedication. Amen.
Gong Chimes Tw elve.
Chief (again holds right hand aloft):
Here and now as Jehovih’s Minister on behalf of
His Angels and the Kosmon Church, I pronounce
these young brethren released from the Covenants
taken on their behalf at their dedication. Amen.
All chant: Amen. Amen. Amen.
Chief. Children of the Eternal Father, the Light
of Jehovih shall remain with you e'en though you
go forth. If there are any among you who desire
not to take the covenant of membership, you may
at this point retire and Jehovih's Blessing will still
be yours. May He one day call you unto us again—
in His own good time and according to His Holy
wm.
[Children not taking the Declaration retire. Those
desiring to enter the Church now say, in unison, led by the
Elder Sister] :
“ Jehovih's Angels led us in our childhood. We
would that they should lead us still. It is our
desire to enter full membership of this Church.”
Chief. Then do you now recite with me the
Declaration.
H y m n .
Each youth then kneels in front of the Chief, who, placing
his hands on the youth's head, says :
The Blessing of Eloih (Spirit of Life Sustaining)
be upon you, O Emeth, So may it be. Amen.
Afterwards: Will our new members remain
seated. All others rise. Ye who have newly
dedicated your lives to Jehovih, are now declared
before Heaven and Earth—Faithists in Jehovih for
ever. All Hail!
72 KOSMON CHURCH SERVICE BOOK
H y m n .
B e n e d i c t i o n .
The Garden City PressLtd., Letchworth, Herts.
/.
