{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 8642 9997 7144","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v5_25_march_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V5 March 25 1889","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
Maf'Ch. 25th., 1889.
The thirty-first General Meeting was held at the Westminster
Town Hall, on March 18th, 1889.
Mr. Myers read the latter part of the following paper :-
II.
ON APPARITIONS OCCURRING SOON AFTER DEATH.
By the late EDMUND GURNEY j completed by F. W. H. MYERS.1
Those who have followed the records and discussions printed in the
Proceedings and the JlItW"II4l of this Society will not need to be
informed how little the evidence which has not infrequently led even
educated persons to believe in the actual reappearance of dead friends
really justifies any such belief. The reason can be given in a single
sentence. In most of the cases where persons have professed to have
seen or to have held communication with deceased friends and relatives,
there is nothing to distinguish the phenomenon which their senses have
encountered from purely subjective hallucination. Simple as this
statement seems, the truth which it embodies remained for centuries
unguessed. It is only in comparatively modern days that the facts of
sensory hallucination have been at all understood, and that the extreme
definiteness which the delusive object may take has been recognised j
and even now the truth of the matter has not had time to penetrate to
the popular mind. The reply of average common-sense to any account
of an apparition is usually either that the witness is lying or grossly
exaggerating, or that he was mad or drunk or emotionally excited at
the time; or at the very most that his experience was an illusion--a.
misinterpretation of some sight or sound which was of an entirely
objective kind. A very little careful study of the subject will, however,
show that all these hypotheses must often be rejected j that the witness
1 The first part of the following paper - to P. 426-waa read by the late Mr.
Edmund Gurney, at a meeting of the Society for Psychical Research, January 28th,
1888. As it would doubtless have received further corrections, as well as additions,
from the author'. hand before publication, it ought not to be taken as containing the
final and deliberate statement of his opinion on the subject to which it relates. It
should also be explained that his objeot in writing the paper was not to. express any
conclusion on the momentous question whether the dead survive in such a state as to
be able, under favourable conditions, to affeot the (physically) living: his wish was
rather to remove the impression that the authors of Phantal11Y of tAt Living were
unwilling to face, or to treat fairly, the evidence that they had colleoted tendiug to
support a positive answer to this question. I have thought it right to complete Mr.
Gurney's paper by adding some further cases and remarks; but the reader must
understand that these remarks are made entirely from my own point of view, and
that the responsibility for them is not in any way shared by Mr. Gurney,-nor, I may
add, by my colleagues on the Literary Committae.-F.W.H.M.
Digitized by Coogle
404 On Apparitions occurring BOon after Death. [Mar. IS,
may be in good health, and in no exceptional state of nervousness or
excitement, and that what he sees or hears may still be of purely
subjective origin-the projection of his own brain. And among the
objects thus fictitiously presented, it is only natural to expect that a
certain percentage will take the form of a human figure or voice which
the percipient recognises as that of a deceased person; for the memory
of such figures and voices is part of his mental store, and the lstent
images are ready to supply the material of waking hallucination, just
as they are ready to supply the material of dream.
It is further evident that in alleged cases of apparitions of the dead,
the point which we have held to distinguish certain apparitions of
living persons from purely subjective hallucinations is necessarily
lacking. That point is coincidence between the apparition and some
critical or exceptional condition of the person who seems to appear;
but with regard to the dead, we have no independent knowledge of
their condition, and therefore never have the opportunity of observing
any such coincidences.
There remain three, and I think only three, conditions which might
establish a presumption that an apparition or other immediate mani-
festationl of a dead person is something more than a mere subjective
hallucination of the percipient's senses. Either (1) more persons than
one might be independently affected by the phenomenon; or (2) the
phantasm might convey information, afterwards discovered to be true,
of something which the percipient had never known; or (3) the
appearance might be that of a person whom the percipient himself had
never seen, and of whose aspect he was ignorant, and yet his description
of it might be sufficiently definite for identification. But though one or
more of these conditions would have to be fully satisfied before we could
be convinced that any particular apparition of the dead had some
cause external to the percipient's own mind, there is one more general
characteristic of the class which is sufficiently suggestive of such a cause
to be worth considering. I mean the disproportionate number of cases
which occur .kortl'll after the death of the person represented. Such a
time-relation, if frequently enough encountered, might enable ua to
argue for the objective origin of the phenomenon in a manner analogous
to that which leads us to conclude that many phantasms of the living
have an objective (a telepathic) origin. For, according to the doctrines
of probabilities, a hallucination representing a known person would not
by chance present a definite time-relation to a special cognate event-
viz., the death of that person-in more than a certain percentage of the
whole number of similar hallucinations that occur j and if that
1 I am not here considering mediate manifestations, &8 where evidenOB of II spirit
identity" is alleged to have been given through, e.g., the writing of a medium UDder
"control."
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Appa,itiom occ'Wl'1'ing soon after Death. 405
percentage is decidedly exceeded, there is reason to surmise that some
other cause than chance-in other words, some objective origin for the
phantasm-is present.
Supposing the peculia.rity which I have mentioned to be estab-
lished, the significance of the time-rela.tion would of course be quite a
different question. The popula.r mind naturally leaps to explanations
of an exciting fact, before the fact itself is at all established. Thus
it is said that the deceased person comes to say farewell, or to cheer
the hearts of mourners while their grief is fresh; or· that his "spirit"
is "earth-bound," and can only gradually free itself. Or, again, there
is the elaborate'theory of "shells" propounded by M. D'Assier, who
holds that, though consciousness and individuality have died, some
basis of physical manifestation is still left, which fades away by slow
degrees. I do not propose now to discuss any of these hypotheses.
Our business at present is wholly with the/acta of post-mortem appear-
ances. The question for science is simply whether those facts point
to any external cause at all; and it is as bearing on this great primary
question that the inquiry as to the relative frequency of the phenomena
near the time of death assumes importance.
It was in the formation of a la.rge collection of first-hand testimony
on the subject of sensory ha.llucination, that I was first struck by the
large proportion of cases where the phantasm represented a friend or
relative recently dead. Out of 231 hallucinations representing
recognised human beings, 28, or nearly an eighth part, occurred within
a few weeks of the death of the person represented. There are two
reasons, however, why little weight can be allowed to this fact. In
the first pla.ce a phantasm representing a person whose death is recent
is specially likely to excite interest, and so to be noted and remembered;
and this might easily swell the percentage of this class of cases in such
a collection as mine. And in the second place, the fact of the death
was in every instance known to the percipient. It is, therefore,
natural to conclude that the emotional state of the percipient was the
sufficient cause of the hallucination; and that is the explanation which
the la.rge majority of psychological and medical experts would at once
adopt. I should myself feel more completely satisfied with it if we had
any record of the phantasmal appearance of a person whom the friend
who saw the appearance believed to be dead, but who was really safe
and sound. Still, false ala.rms of death are not so common as to make
it certain, or perhaps even likely, that we should have encountered
such a case. And meanwhile I think that grief, and the sense of awe
commonly connected with death, ought to be held as the sufficient cause
of abnormal sensory experiences connected with persons whose recent
death is being mourned, until the objective reality of phantasms of the
dead in certain cases is established by some independent line of proof.
Digitized by Coogle
406 On Apparition8 occwrring soon after Death. [Mar. 18,
If, then, we are to draw any probable conclusion as to the objective
nature of pOBt-mortem appearances and communications (or of some of
them) from the fact of their special frequency soon after death, we
must confine ourselves to cases where the fact of death has been
unknown to the percipient at the time of his experience. Now, in these
days of letters and telegrams, people for the most part hear of the
deaths of friends and relatives within a. very few days, sometimes within
a very few hours, after the death occurs; so that appearances of the
sort required would, as a rule, have to follow very closely indeed on
the death. Have we evidence of any considerable number of such
casest
Readers of PlllllntaBmB qfthe Living will know that we have. In a
number of cases which were treated in that book as examples of ~le­
pathic transference from a dying person, the person was actually dead
at the time that the percipient's experience occurred; and the inclusion
of such cases under the title of Plw.n1.a8m8 of the Living naturally
occasioned a certain amount of adverse criticism. Their inclusion, it
will be remembered, required an assumption which cannot by any
means be regarded as certain. We had to suppose that the telepathic
transfer took place just before, or exactly at, the moment of death; but
that the impression remained latent in the percipient's mind, and only
after an interval emerged into his consciousness, whether as waking
vision or as dream or in some other form. Now, as a provisional
hypothesis, I think that this assumption was justified. For, in the first
place, the moment of death is, in time, the central point of a cluster of
abnormal experiences occurring to percipients at a distance, of which
some precede, while others follow, the death; it is natural therefore to
surmise that the same explanation will cover the whole group, and that
the motive force in each of its divisions lies in a state of the "agent"
prior to bodily death. In the second place, some of the facts of experi.
mental thought-transference countenance the view that "transferred
impressions" may be latent for a. time before the recipient becomes
aware of them; and recent discoveries with respect to the whole subject
of automatism and "secondary intelligence" make it seem far less
improbable than it would otherwise have seemed that telepathy may
take effect first on the "unconscious" part of the mind.1 And in the
third place, the period of supposed latency has in a good many instances
been a period when the person affected was in activity, and when
his mind and senses were being solicited by other things; and in
such cases it is specially easy to suppose that the telepathic impres-
sion did not get the right conditions for rising into consciousness
1 In some experimental cases, it will be remembered. the impre88ion takes efect
through the motor, not the 'CMOry. system of the recipient. as by automatic writing.
80 that he is never directly aware of it at all
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On ApparitionB ocC'Umng soon afteT Death. 407
until a season of silence and recueil161ll6flt arrived.1 But though the
theory of latency has thus a good deal to be said for it, my colleagues
and I are most anxious not to be supposed to be putting forward as a
dogma what must be regarded at present merely as a working hypothesis.
Psychical research is of all subjects the one where it is most important
to avoid this error, and to keep the mind open for new interpretations
of the facts. And in the present instance there are certain definite
objections which may fairly be made to the hypothesis that a telepathic
impression derived from a dying person may emerge after hours of
latency. The experimental cases to which I have referred as analogous
are few and uncertain, and moreover in them the period of latency has
been measured by seconds or minutes, not by hours. And though, as
I have said, some of the instances of apparent delay among the death-
cases might be accounted for by the fact that the percipient's mind or
senses needed to be withdrawn from other occupations before the
manifestation could take place, there are other instances where this
is not so, and where no ground at all appears for connecting the delay
with the percipient's condition. On the whole, then, the alternative
hypothesis-that the condition of the phenomenon on the .. agent's"
side (be it psychical or be it physical) is one which only comes into
existence at a distinct interval after death, and that the percipient
really is impressed at the moment, and not before the moment, when he
is'conscious of the impression-is one which must be steadily kept in
view.
So far I have been speaking of cases where the interval between
the death and the manifestation was so short as to make the theory
of latency possible. The rule adopted in Phantasms 0/ tlj,8 Living was
tbt this interval must not exceed 12 hours. But we have records of
a few cases where this interval has been greatly exceeded, and yet
where the fact of the death was still unknown to the percipient at the
time of his experience. The theory of latency cannot reasonably be
applied to cases where weeks or months divide the vision (or whatever
it may be) from the moment of death, which is the latest at which an
ordinary 2 telepathically transferred idea. could have obtained access to
the percipient. And the existence of such cases-so far as it tends to
establish the reality of objectively-caused apparitions of the dead-
diminishes the objection to conceiving that the appearances, &c., which
1See for inatance, case 500, Phanttuml of the Liri1l(J, VoL II., p. 462.
I I mean by .. ordinary" the classes which are recognised and treated of in
Phanttuml of 1M Liri1l(J. But if the departed arurvive, the poIIBibility of thought-
Vanaference between them and those who remaiu is of course a perfectly tenable
hypothesis. .. As our telepathic theory is a psychical one, and makes no physical
_umptions, it would be perfectly applicable (though the name perhaps would be
inappropriate) to the conditions of disembodied existence."-Phantanu, Vol. I.,
p.512.
Digitized by Coogle
408 On Apparitions occurring 800n ajttJr Death. [Mar. IS,
have very shortly followed death have had a different causation from
those which have coincided with or very shortly precetkd it. For
we shall not be inventing a wholly new class for the former cases, but
only provisionally shifting them from one class to another-to a much
smaller and much less well-evidenced claBS, it is true, but one neverth~
less for which we have evidence enough to justify us in expecting more.
The statistics drawn from the first-hand records in PlumtaBm8 ofthe
Living as to the time-relation of appearances, &c., occurring in close
proximity to deaths, are as follows. In 134 cases the coincidence is
represented as having been exact, or, when times are specifica.lly statAld,
close to within an hour. In 104 cases it is not known whether the
percipient's experience preceded or followed the death; such cases
cannot be taken account of for our present purpose. There remain
78 cases where it appears that there was an interval of more than an
hour; and of these 38 preceded and 40'followed the death. Of the 38
cases where the percipient's experience preceded the death (all of which,
of course, took place during a time when the "agent JJ was seriously
ill); 19 fell within 24 hours of the death. Of the 40 cases where the
percipient's experience followed the death, all followed within an
interval of 24 hours, and in only one (included by mistake) was the
12 hours' interval certainly exceeded, though there are one or two
others where it is possible that it was slightly exceeded.l
The cases where the appearance or impression shortly followed the
death (like all other cases where the percipient of a phantasm bas
recognised in it some dead person) fall under two heads, which we may
distinguish as the per8O'TUJl and the local. That is to say, this experience
either befalls some person who has been linked with the deceased by
close ties, or it befalls someone in a place in which the deceased, when
alive, was strongly interested. Sometimes, as might be expected, the
two characteristics are combined. An excellent specimen of the
per80nal class was gh-en at length by Mrs. Sidgwick, in her paper "On
the Evidence, collected by the Society, for Phantasms of the Dead,"
(Proceeding8, Vol. III., p. 95), where a young man who had died at
Glasgow, through accidentally taking poison, appeared in a dream to
his employer in London, before the news of the catastrophe arrived, and
cautioned him against supposing that the suicide was intentional.
Some other specimens of this class are given here.
I.-From the Rev. G. M. Tandy, Vicar of West-Ward, nea.rWigton,
Cumberland, formerly of Loweswater.
[We owe this case to the kindness of our Vice-President, the Bishop
of Carlisle.]
1 For example, in case 500 the experience probably followed the death by 16 boan,
but possibly preceded it by four hours. •
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitions ocCWl'1"ing Boon after Death. 409
When at Loweswater, lone day called upon a friend, who said, "You
do not see many newspapers; take one of those lying there." I accordingly
took up a newspaper, bound with a wrapper, put it into my pocket and
walked home.
In the evening I was writing, and, wanting to refer to a book, went into
another room where my books were. I placed the candle on a ledge of the
bookcase, took down a book and found the passage I wanted, when, happen-
ing to look towards the window, which was opposite to the bookcase, I saw
through the window the face of an old friend whom I had known well at
Cambridge, but had not Been for 10 years or more, Canon Robinson (of the
Charity and School Commission). I was 80 sure I saw him that I went out
to look for him, but could find no trace of him.
I went back into the house and thought I would take a look at my news-
paper. I tore oft" the wrapper, unfolded the paper, and the first piece of news
that I saw was the death of Canon Robinson! 1
Mr. Tandy further writes :-
In reply to your note October 6th, I may state, with regard to the
narrative I detailed to the Bishop of CarliBle, that I saw the face looking
through the window, by the light of a single Ozokerit candle, placed on a
ledge of the bookcase, which stood opposite the window i that I was stand-
ing, with the candle by my sid'e, reading from a book to which I had occasion
to refer, and raising my eyes as I read, I saw the face clearly and distinctly,
ghastly pale. but with the features 80 marked and so distinct that I recognised
it at once as the face of my most dear and intimate friend, the late Canon
Robinson, who was with me at school and college, and whom I had not Been
for many years past (10 or 11 at the very least). Almost immediately after,
fully persuaded that myoId friend had come to pay me a surprise visit, I
rushed to the door, but seeing nothing I called aloud, searched the premises
most carefully, and made inquiry as to whether any stranger had been seen
near my hoUle, but no one had been heard of or seen. When last I saw
Canon Robinson he was apparently in perfect health, much more likely to
out-live me than I him, and before I opened the newspaper announcing his
death (which I did about an hour or so after seeing the face) I had not heard
or read of his illneBB, or death, and there was nothing in the pl&8II&ge of the
book I was reading to lead me to think of him.
The time at which I saw the face was between 10 and 11 o'clock p.m., the
night dark, and while I was reading in a room where no shutter was closed
or blind drawn.
I may answer in reply to your question" whether I have ever had'any
other vision or hallucination of any kind 1" that though I never saw any
apparition, I have heard mysterious noises which neither my friends nor I
were able satisfactorily to account for.
1I.-From Mrs. Clark, 8, South View, Forest Hall, Newcastle-on
Tyne.
Jatw.ary 6th, 1885.
I Bend you a short account, describing what I experienced at the time
J As we do not know what newspaper thiaw8ll, it is not }108IIible to ascertain the
precise interval which bad elapeed since the death.-F.W.H.M.
Digitized by Coogle
410 On Apparitions occurring Boon after Death. [Mar. 18,
of the apparition of my friend, who was a young gentleman much attached to
myself, and who would willingly (had I loved him well enough) have made
me his wife. I became engaged to be married, and did not see my friend
(Mr. Akhurat) for lOme months, until within a week of my marriage (June,
1878), when in the presence of my husband he wished me every happineu,
and regretted he had not been able to win me.
Time passed on. I had been married about two years and had never_n
Mr. Akhurst, when one day my husband told me he (Mr. Akhurst) was in
Newcaatle and was coming to supper and was going to stay the night. When
my husband and he were talking, he said my husband had been the more
fortunate of the two, but he added if anything happened to my husband he
could leave his money to whom he liked and his widow to him, and he would
be quite content. I mention this to show he was still interested in me.
Three months passed and baby was born. When she was about a week
old, very early one moming I was feeding her, when I felt a cold waft of air
through the room and a feeling as though lOme one touched my shoulder ; my
hair seemed to bristle all over my head and I shuddered. Raising my eyes
to the door (which faced me), I saw Akhurst standing in his shirt and trouaers
looking at me, when he seemed to pass through the door. In the morning I
mentioned it to my husband. I did not hearof Mr. Akhurat's death for BOme
weeks after, when I found it corresponded with that of the apparition, and
though my father knew of it before, he thought in my weak state of health
it were better I should not be told.
He was found lying on the bed with his shirt and trousers on, just .. he
had tllrown hinlaelf down after taking a sleeping draught.1
I myself am quite convinced that Mr. Akhurat's thoughta had been so
concentrated upon me, before the draught proved fatal, that his spirit visited
me on ita way to that glorious land where it shall dwell in the presence of
Him Who said .. Come unto Me all ye that labour and are heavy laden and I
will give you rest."
To me the memory of Mr. Akhurst will always be as of a dear brother,
. greatly esteemed and deeply regretted. .
EXILY CLutK.
May 13th, 1885.
My husband will certify as to my mentioning to hinl seeing the apparition
before I heard of Mr. Akhurst's death, but 1am lOrry I cannot tell you where
it happened, nor the exact date of the death, but I remember when we heard
about it my husband and 1 traced it to about the time of my "vision. "
I will ask my husband to write you a few lines, and'I am sorry I C&IUlot
give the time and place of death: it is nearly five years ago, and on account
of my not knowing personally any of his family I am not in a position to
ascertain.
J1l1.y 23rd, 1885.
I never experienced anything of the kind before. I think Mr. Akhurst's
1 This, 88 will be seen, was probably a mistake, and it aeeJIIII pouible that; tM
reminiscence of the Corlican Brother, may have helped to Rhape the hlillucination.-
F.W.H.M.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitions occulr";mg soon ajUr Death. 411
death happened IOmewhere in Yorkshire. What makes me think the time
corresponded with his death, was, my asking how long ago it was from my
hearing of his death, and the actual occurrence; and then knowing the time
of my little girl's birth, I came to the conclusion it was about the same time.
1 think this is all the information I can give you. I shall ask my husband
to send you a few lines to-morrow.
From Edward Clark, Solicitor, County Chambers, Newcaatle-on-
Tyne.
JlIly 24th, 1885.
At the requeet of my wife, Mrs. Clark, of 9, South View, Foreet Hall,
I beg to inform you of my knowledge of the supposed apparition of Mr.
Akburst. Shortly after my wife had been confined of my 8800nd daughter,
about the end of September, 1880, my wife one morning informed me she
had seen Akhurst about one o'clock that morning. I of course told her it
was nonsense, but she persisted, and said he appeared to her with only his
troU88l"8 and a shirt on, and the remark she mAde was that he was dre888d just
as she had seen him in the Comeau Brotkera (he W&8 an actor). She also
deecribed her feelings at the time. 1 tried to persuade her it was a dream,
but she insisted that it was an apparition.
AI near &8 I can remember, about six months after, I met a mutual friend
of Akhurst's and my own, and in conversation I inquired after Akhurst. He
said, "Don't you know he is dead1" I said, ..No, when did he die¥" He said,
"I don't know the exact date, but it was about six months ago" ; and further
informed me that he died about one o'clock in the morning in the dress &8
my wife described him, from an overdose of chlol"ll. I have endeavoured to
188 my friend to find out the place (Bradford, I think), but he is now in
America. His name is John Brown, and he is the IOn of the leader writerto
the Chronicle here. If 1 meet him again 1 will try to get &CCUl"8te particu1an
and forward them to you.
A ugu. 2l&t, 1885.
. . . • My wife baa, I find, no reason to think she has been mistaken
as to the time when she supposed she saw W. J. Akhurst, &8 the date is fixed
by the birth of my 8800nd little girl, which took place in September, 1880.
* * * .. *
Era Almanac for 1881. Obituary for 1880, p. 93.
..Akburst, Walter Jamee, Actor, aged 24, July 12th."
The Era newspaper of July 18th, 1880, gives an account of the inquest.
Mr. H. W. Akhurst gave evidence to the effect that he and his deceased
brother went to the chemist's on Saturday (i.e., 10th), and procureda sleeping
dl"8ught. Deceased complained of pains in his body, and of feeling lonely.
The next day, Sunday, he only got up to have his bed made ; Monday he
died. W. H. Cope, Surgeon, attributed death to suffocation caused by heart
disease. The verdict returned was .. Death from natural caU888."
TII.-The following, obtained through the kindness of Miss Porter,
is from a lady who does not wish her name mentionfld.
Digitized by Coogle
412 On Apparitions occu/1"ring Boon after Death. [Mar. 18,
August 8th, 1885.
On the 2nd November, 1876, I arrived at my brother's house. My
journey had been a long one-from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. I sat up late talking
to my sister·in-law, and about 12 o'clock went to my room. There I spent
some time arranging my belongings. I found I had left something I wanted
down in the hall, and feeling restless, I suppose, thought I must get it then,
and not wait until the morning. So downstairs I went. The house is a
large one j the passages long. My room was in the third story, and I had
to go to the entrance hall. It took me some time. On returning and
entering the corridor in which my room W88, I saw, standing beyond my
doorway, a figure. It looked misty, as if, had there been a light behind it,
I should have seen through the mist. This misty figure was the likenesa of a
friend of ours whom I knew to have been on a voyage to Australia. I stood
and looked at " It." I put my hand over my eyes and looked again. Still
it was there. Then it seemed to pass away, how I cannot say. I went on
and into my room. I said to myself, My brain was tired out; and I hurried
to bed 80 as to get rest.
Next day I told my sister-in-law what I had seen. We laughed about
my ghost.
I was away from my home three weeks. On my return, my mother
showed me the account in a newspaper of our poor friend's body haying been
cast on shore at Orfordness and buried as an unknown castaway the very time
that I saw this figure. We were the only friends he had in England, but
why I saw him I cannot tell. It did no good to anyone. One thing I should
tell you, I had not been thinking or speaking of him.
The following is from the Parish Clerk of Orford, near Wickham,
Suffolk.
Jamtary 23rd, 1886.
SIR,-In reply to your inquiries I send you a copy.of the head-stone :-
" In memory of Fredrick Gluyas Le Maistre, 2nd Officer of the b&rque
Ga/Untlet, of London, native of Jersey, Channel Islands, aged 24 years and
5 months, whose body was found near Orfordness Harbour, October the
22nd, 1876, his death having been occasioned by falling from on board the
above-named vesael in the Downs on the 27th of September of the same
year. "
JAl\IE.~ Lum.
[I have seen the percipient (January 21st, 1886), and she tella me she has
never had any other hallucination whatever. She is a sensible and pmctical
person.-E. G.]
IV.-From Colonel H. (known to E. G.)
February 13th, 1886.
. I am not a believer in ghosts, spirit manifestations, or Esoteric
Buddhism. It has been my lot-a lot sought by myself over and over again,
and never falling to me by chance-to sleep in well-known, or rather well-
believed-to-be haunted rooms. I have endeavoured to encounter ghosts,
spirits, or beings (if you like) from another world, but like other good things
that one seeks for in life, without succeSB. When I least expected it, how-
ever, I experienced a visitation so remarkable in its phenomena, so realistic
1889.] On Apparition'l occurring soon after Death. 413
in ita nature, so supported by actual facta, that I am constrained, at the
request of my friends, to put my experience into writing.
The narrator then describes how, nearly 23 years before, he had
fonned a friendship with two brother subalterns, J.P. and J.S., and
how his intercourse with J.P. had been continued at intervals up to the
time of the Transvaal war, when J.P. was ordered out on the staff.
J.S. was already on the scene of action. Both had now attained
major's rank; the narrator himself had left the service some years
previously.
On the morning that J.P. was leaving London, to embark for the
Cape, he invited the narrator to breakfast with him at the club, and
they finally parted at the club-door.
"Good-bye, old fellow," I said, "we shall meet again, I hope."
" Yea," he said, "we shall meet again."
I can see him now, as he stood, smart and erect, with his bright black
eyes looking intently into mine. A wave of the hand, as the hansom whirled
him off, and he was gone.
The Transvaal war was at ita height. One night, after reading for some
time in the library of the club, I had gone to my rooms late. It must have
been nearly one o'clock before I turned into bed. I had slept, perhaps, some
three hours or so whe.n I awoke with a start. The grey dawn was stealing
in through the windows, and the light fell sharply and distinctly on the
military cheat of drawers which stood at the further end of the room, and
which I had carried about with me everywhere during my service. Standing
by my bed, between me and the chest of drawers, I saw a figure, which, in
apite of the unwonted dress-unwonted, at least, to me-and of a full black
beard, I at once recognised as' that of myoid brother-officer. He had on the
usual kharki coat, worn by officers on active service in eastern climates. A
brown leatherstrap, which might have been the strap of his field service glasa,
croeaed his breast. A brown leather girdle, with aword attached on the left
side, and revolver case on the right, paaaedround his waist. On his head he
wore the ordinary white pith helmet of service. I noted all these particulars
in the moment that I atarted from sleep, and sat up in bed looking at him.
His face was pale, but his bright black eYeB shone as keenly as when, a year
and a-half before, they had looked upon me as he stood with one foot on the
hansom, bidding me adieu.
Fully impressed for the brief moment that we were stationed together at
0--- in Ireland or somewhere, and thinking I was in my barrack-rooul, I
said, "Hallo! P., am I late for parade 1" P. looked at me steadily, and
replied, "I'm shot."
" Shot I" I exclaimed. "Good God! how and where 1 "
.. Through the lungs," replied P., and as he spoke his right hand moved
slowly up the breast, until the fingers rested over the right lung.
" What were you doing 1" I asked.
.. The General sent me forward," he answered, and the right hand left
the breast to move slowly to the front, pointing over my head to the window,
and at the same moment the figure melted away. I rubbed my eyea, to
Digitized by Coogle
414 On Apparitions occurri1l1/ Boon after Death. [Mar. IS,
make sure I Wall not dreaming, and sprang out of bed. It waa then UO
a.m. by the clock on my mantelpiece.
I felt sure that myoid friend Wall no more, and what I had seen wu'only
an apparition. But yet how account for the voice ¥ the ready and diatinct
answers ¥ That I had seen a spirit, certainly something that was not leah
and blood, and that I had conversed with it, were alike indisputable facta.
But how to reconcile these apparent impossibilities 1 The thought disquieted
me, and I longed for the hour when the club would open, and I could get.
chance of learning from the papers any news from the seat of war in the
Transvaal. The hours passed feverishly. I Wall first at the club that
morning, and snatched greedily at the first paper. No news of the 1J8l'
whatever.
I passed the day in a more or le88 unquiet mood, and talked over the
whole circumstance to an old brother officer, Colonel W.l He was as fully
impreased as I was with the story of the aJ?pearance. The following morning
I Wall again a solitary member at the club, and seized with avidity the lint
paper that came to hand. This time my anxiety Wall painfully set at rest,
for my eye fell at once on the brief lines that told of the battle of lAng'1
Neck, and on the list of killed, foremost among them all being poor J.P.
I noted the time the battle was fought, calculated it with the hour at which
I had seen the figure, and found that it almost coincided. From this simple
fact I could only surmise that the figure had appeared to me in London
almost at the very moment that the fatal bullet had done ita work in the
Transvaal.
Two questions now arose to my mind, Firat, as to proof that poor
P. happened to wear that particular uniform at the time of his death, and
whether he carried a beard-which I myself had never seen him wear.
Second, whether he met his death in the manner indicated, viz., by a bullet
through the right lung. The first facta I eat&bliabed beyond dispute about
six months afj;erwards, through an officer who Wall at the battle of JAng'1
Neck, and who had been invalided home. He confirmed every detail
The second fact, strangely enough, Wall confirmed by no leas a person than
J.S., more than a year after the occurrence, he having also left the Cape,
the war being over. On my asking J.S. if he had heard how poor P., our
old brother-officer, was shot, he replied, "Just here," and biB fingers
travelled up his breast, exactly as the fingers of the figure had done, until
they rested on the very spot over the right lung.
I have set down the foregoing, without any attempt at embelliahment,
exactly as everything occurred.
We find from the London Gazette that the battle in which Major
P. was killed began (according to General Elley's despatch) at
9.30 a.m. on January 28th, 1881. Major P. was probably killed
between 11 and 12 a.m., which would be between 9 and 10 a.m. in
London, the difference of time being a little under two hour&. I dre...
Colonel H.'s attention to this point, and to the impossibility that the
1 We have endeavoured in vain to trace this officer.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Appatiti<mB occurring 80<m tl,fter Death. 415
dawn should be beginning at 4.10 a.m. at that time of year, and he
sent the following reply.
February 20th, 1886.
It may have been 7.10 and not 4.10 a.m. The impression, writ.ing now
after80tp.8 years' interval, is that it. was 4.10 a.m., but. I may be wrong.
All I know is that I calculated the time at the time, with the hour at
which the battle was fought, and it was to all practical purposes the same
time.
It was a winter morning i and the blinds were down over the window.
The morning light at 7 a.m. in a winter month, coming through the blinds,
would not be much stronger than the morning light at 4 a.m. in a summer
month under the lI&JD.e circumstances. Hence I may have been mistaken in
the hour, or the clock might have stopped, unknown to me, at 4.10 a.m. that
day or even the day before.
The first account of the battle of Lang's Neck appeared in the
Times, Telegraph, and Daily New8, of Saturday, January 29th, 188!.
.. No list of casualties." The first announcement of Major Poole's
death was in a telegraphic dispatch from the Transvaal, dated January
28th, and received by the Secretary of State for War in London on
the 29th. IC Killed :-Major Poole, Royal Artillery," and it appeared
in the Ob8enJer of Sunday, January 30th, and in the three above-named
morning papers on the 31st (Monday).
[The precise date of this visio~ is now irrecoverable; but Mr.
Gurney, who dillCll.SS8d the matter with Colonel H., concluded that the
apparition probably occurred after the death, and certainly occurred
before the death was announced in England.]
Of the local class a very interesting specimen occurs in Phantasms
01the Living (Case 29, Vol. I., p. 212), where an Essex gardener, return-
ing from work, saw a lady, whom he recognised, standing by a tomb or
mausoleum which belonged to her, and which he imagined that she had
come to visit. The lady had died on that day in London. In the printed
account the death is represented as having preceded the appearance
by less than tWQ hours, but I have recently found that this is incorrect;
the lady was found dead at about 2 p.m., and the appearance was seen
at 9.20. Fortunately, the percipient a.t once mentioned his experience,
and the news of the death did not a.rrive in the place till next morning,
80 that the case is evidentially a strong one. And it certainly tells, as
far as a single case can tell, in favour of the theory of independent P08t
mortem appearance as opposed to that of telepathy, or thought-trans-
ference, in the ordinary sense. For, on the one hand, the hypothesis of
a transferred impression from the mind of a dying person seems strained
to the uttenpost when (as in this case) the dying person and the
2B
Digitized by Coogle
416 On Apparitions occurring Boon after Death. [Mar. 18.
percipient have been connected by no tie of blood or friendship; and,
moreover, it would have been an extremely odd coincidence that an
impression, which we should have to Buppose to have lain latent for seven
hours in the percipient'B mind, Bhould suddenly externalise itself in bodily
form at the very moment when he was approaching a Bpot in which the
deceased was Bpecially interested. And, on the other hand, the spot in
which the phantasm appeared is Bpecially Buggestive of a local cause for
it; for the deceased lady, aB we learn from the vicar of the parish, was
" BpeCially morbid on the Bubject of tombs," and she was in the habit
of sometimeB having the mausoleum opened and entering it.
In the following cases the interval after death was longer, and the
percipient was an absolute stranger to the deceased. This condition
must, of course, uBually involve the disadvantage that the identification
of the appearance with a particular person can be based only on the
percipient'B subsequent description of what he had seen. But in the
first case which I Bhall quote, this sort of identificatio~ was reinforced
by the percipient'B recognition of a photograph of the deceased.
V.-From Mr. John E. HUBbandB, of Melbourne House, Town Hall-
Bquare, GrimBby.
September 15th, 1886.
DBA.R Sm.-The facta are simply these. I was sleeping in a hotel in
Madeirs in January, 1885. It was a bright moonlight night. The windows
were open and the blinds up. I felt some one was in my room. On opening
my eyeB, I saw a young fellow about 25, dressed in flannels, standing at the
side of my bed and pointing with the first finger of his right hand to the
place I was lying. I lay for some seconds to convince myself of some one
being really there. I then sat up and looked at him. I saw his features
so plainly that I recognised them in a photograph which was shown me some
days after. I asked him what he wanted ; he did not speak, but his eyes and
hand seemed to tell me I was in his place. As he did not answer, I struck
out at him with my fist &8 I sat up, but did not reach him, and as I .._
going to spring out of bed he slowly vanished through the door, which ....
shut, keeping his eyes upon me all the time.
Upon inquiry I found that the young fellow who appeared to me died in
that room I was occupying.
If I can tell you anything more I shall be glad to, if it intereebl you.
JOlIN E. HvBJW0)8..
The following letters are from Miss Falkner, of Church-terrace.
WiBbech, who was resident at the hotel when the above incident.
happened.
Octobefo 8tA, 1886..
The figure that Mr. Husbands saw while in Madeirs was that of a young
fellow who died unexpectedly months. previously, in the room which Mr.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitions occurring BOon after Death. 417
Husbands was occupying. Curiously enough, Mr. H. had never heard of him
or his death. He told me the story the morning after he had seen the figure,
and I recogniIed the young fellow from the deacription. It impresaed me
very much, but I did not mention it to him or anyone. I loitered about
until I heard Mr. Husbands tell the same tale to my brother; we left Mr. H.
and said simultaneously ~. He has seen Mr. D." •
No more was said on the subject for days; then I abruptly showed the
photograph.
Mr. Husbands said at once, .. That is the young fellow who appeared to
me the other night, but he was dressed di1I'erently"-describing a dress he
often wore-" cricket suit (or tennis) fastened at the neck with sailor knot."
I must say that that Mr. Husbands is a most practical man, and the very last
one would expect " a spirit " to visit.
K. FALKNER.
October 20th, 1886.
I enclose you photograph and an extract from my lister-in-law'l letter,
which I received this morning, as it will verify my ltatement. Mr. Husbands
saw the figure either the 3rd or 4th of February, 1880.
The people who had occupied the rooms had never told UI if they had
seen anything, 10 we may conclude they had not.
K. FALKNEL
The following is Miss Falkner's copy of the passage in the letter :-
" You will 188 at back of Mr. du F--'I photo the date of his decease
[January 29th, 1884]; and if you recollect •the Motta Marques' had his
rooms from the February till the Mayor June of 1884, then Major
Money at the commencement of 1880 aeason. Mr. HUlbands had to take
the room on February 2nd, 1885, as his was wanted.
" I am clear on all this, and remember his telling me the incident when
he came to lee my baby."
I have received a full account of this case, ..,w, t7OC4, from both Mr.
Husbands and Miss Falkner. They are both thoroughly practical, and
as far removed as possible from a superstitious love of marvels; nor
had they any previous interest in this or any other class of abnormal
experiences. So far as I could judge, Mr. Husbands' view of himself
is entirely correct-that he is the last person to give a spurious
importance to anything that might befall him, or to allow facts to be
distorted by imagination. As will be seen, his account of his vision
preceded any knowledge on his part of the death which had occurred in
the room. He has never had any other hallucination of the senses.
The next case is remarkable for the frequent repetition of the
percipient's experience. It is a specially ba.1Bing case; suggesting not so
much anything associated with the popular idea of "haunting," or any
continuing local interest on the part of the deceased person, as the
survival of a mere image, impreased, we cannot guess how, on we cannot
2x2
Digitized by Coogle
418 On Apparitiom occurrim,g BOon after Death. [Mar. 18,
guess what, by that person's physical organism, and perceptible at times
to those endowed with some cognate form of sensitiveness.
VI.-From Mr. D. M. Tyre, 157, St. Andrew's-road, Pollokshields,
Glasgow.
October 9th, 1885.
In the summer of 1874, my sister and I went during our holidays to stay
with a gardener and his wife, in a house which 11'88 built far up, fully three-
quarten of a mile, on the face of a hill overlooking one of the mOBt beautiful
lochs in Dumhartonshire, just on the boundary of the Highlands. A channing
spot indeed, although far oft' the main l'ORdway. We never wearied, and 10
delighted were we with the place that my people took a le88e of the hoU118 for
the following three yesn. From this point my narrative begins. Being
connected in business with the city, we could not get down to Glen M.
altogether, so that my two sisten and myseH were Bent away early in May to
have the house put in order, and attend to the garden, &0., &c., for the
coming holidays, when we would be all down together. We had lots of work
to do, and 88 the nearest village 11'88 five miles distant, and our nearest
neighbours, the people at the shore, nearly a mile away, we were pretty
quiet on the hill and left to our own resources.
One day, my elder sister J. required to go to the village for 80mething or
other, leaving us alone; and 88 the afternoon came on, I went part of the
way to meet her, leaving my other sister L. all alone. When we returned,
about 6 p.m., we found L. down the hill to meet us in a rather excited state.
saying that an old woman had taken up her quarten in the kitchen, and WB8
lying in the bed. We 88ked if she knew who she W88. She said no, that the
old wife 11'88 lying on the bed with her clothes on, and that pOBBibly she WB8
a tinker body (a gipsy), therefore she 11'88 afraid to go in without us. We
went up to the house with L. ; my younger sister L. going in first said, 011
koing into the kitchen, "There she is," pointing to the bed, and turning to
us expecting that we would wake her up and 88k what she W88 there for. I
looked in the bed and so did my elder sister, but the clothes were flat and
unruftled, and when we said that there 11'88 nothing there she 11'88 quite 81lr-
priaed, and pointingwith her finger said, "'Look, why there's the old wife with
her clothes on and lying with her head towards the window"; but we could
not Bee anything. Then for the first time it seemed to dawn upon her that she
11'88 Beeing something that W88 not natural to us all, and she becamevery much
afraid, and we took her to the other room and tried to soothe her, for she was
trembling all over. GhOBt ! why the thought never entered our minds for a
second; but we started chopping wood and making a fire for the evening
meal. The very idea of anyone being in the· bed W88 ridiculous, so we
attributed it to imagination, and life at the house went on 88 usual for about
two days, when one afternoon, 88 we were sitting in the kitchen round the
fire, it being a cold~ wet day outside, L. startled us by exclaiming, "There is
the old woman again, and lying the same way." L. did not seem to be 110
much afraid this tinle, so we asked her to describe the figure ; and with her
eyes fixed on the bed and with motion of the finger, she went on to tell us
how that the old wife 11'88 not lying under the blankets, but on top, with her
clothes and boots on, and her legs drawn up 88 though she were cold; her
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On AJ>.PW1itwn.s occwrri-ng soon after Death. 419
face was turned to the wall, and ahe had on what is known in the Highlands
as a .. 8Ow-backed mutch," that is, a white cap which only old women wear j
it has a frill round the front, and &ticks out at the back, thus.1 She also wore
a drab coloured petticoat, and a checked shawl round her shoulders drawn
tight. Such was the description given; she could not see her face, but her
right hand was hugging her left arm, and she saw that the hand was yellow
and thin, and wrinkled like the handa of old people who have done a lot of
hard work in their day.
We sat looking at the bed for a long time, with an oocasional bit of
information from L., who was the oilly one who saw the figure.
This happened often-very often, indeed 80 frequently that we got used
to it, and used to talk about it among ourselves as" L'.s old woman."
Midsummer came, and the rest of our people from the city, and then
for the first time we became intimate with our neighbours, and two or three
families at the shore. One one OOC&8ion my eldersister brought up the subject
before a Mrs. M'P., our nearest neighbour, and when she described the
figure to her, Mrs. M'P. well-nigh swooned away, and said that it really was
the case j the description was the same as the first wife of the man, who lived
in the house before us, and that he cruelly ill-used his wife, to the extent
that the last beating she never recovered from. The story Mrs. M'P. told
runs 80mewhat like this, of which I can only give you the gist :-
MaJ.colm, the man of the house, and his wife Kate· (the old woman),
lived a cat and dog life ; she was hard-working, .and he got tipsy whenever
he coUld. They went one day to market with 80me fowls and pigs, &c." and
on their way, back he purcbased a half-gallon of whisky. He carried it part
of the way, and when he got tired gave it to her; while he took frequent
rests by the wayside, she managed to get home before him, and when he
came Iiome late he accused her of drinking the contents of the jar. He gave
her such a beating that he was afraid, and went down to this Mrs. M'P.,
Baying that his wife was very ill. When Mrs. M'P. went up to the house she
found Kate, as my sister described, with her clothes on, and lying with her
face to the wall for the purpose, as Mrs. M'P. said, of concealing her face,
which was very badly coloured by the ill-treatment of her husband. The
finish-up was her death, she having never recovered.
The foregoing is as nearly a complete compendium of the facts as I, with
the help of my ailIter J., can remember.
My ailIter L. is now dead, but we often go back to the house, when we
are any way near the locality, because it is a bright spot in our memory.
(Signed), D. M. TYBE.
Mr. Tyre adds, in a letter to Mr. David Stewart, of Kincaid House,
Milton of Campsie, N.B., who procured this account for us :-
I was at the house last month j there is no one in it just now j the last
tenant has gone abroad, and the house is 80mewhat dilapidated, and the
garden a ruin. We had a look through the window at the old kitchen, and
saw our own grate atill remaining.
1 A sketch of the profile was here given.
Digitized by Coogle
4120 On App(!,ritiom oCC'Ull'1'ing 800n after Death. [Mar. 18,
Mr. Stewart wrote to us on August 13th, 1885:-
I know how valuable the actual names and localities would be, &8 well ..
Mrs. M'P.'s independent account, but I have asked so repeatedly, and been
told that Mrs. M'P. had great objections to publicity, in case it would rake
up old ltories connected with the case, that I do not like to ask again.
In this connection I may cite a case which was admitted to
Pham.tomns of the Living by mistake. (Case 138, Vol. I., p. 375.)
The death took place at the Antipodes, and the coincidence between it
and the percipient's experience was represented by the narrator as exact,
through the not very nncommon error of reckoning the di1ference of
time made by di1ference of longitude the wrong way. .I did not discover
this error till the first edition of the book had been published. In fact,
the percipient's experience followed the death by more than 12 hours,
and the case falls properly in our present class. But the nature of the
experience was remarkable.
VII.-From Miss Richardson, 47, Bedford-gardens, Kensington, W.
The writer is a very worthy wife of a shopkeeper, who told me the
occurrence lome years ago, then with more detail, as it was fresh in her
memory, and- her husband can vouch for the facts told him at the time,
and the Itrange "uncanny" effect of the dream on her mind for BOme
time after.
From Mrs. Green to Miss Richardson.
Newry, 21Bt Fint MOllth, 1885.
nBAR FRIEND,-In compliance with thy request, I give thee the
particulars of my dream.
I saw two respectably-dressed females driving alone in a vehicle like a
mineral water cart. Their horae stopped at a water to drink ; but as there
was no footing, he lost his balance, and in trying to recover it he plwtged
right in. With the shock, the women ltood up and shouted for help, and
their hats rose off their heads, and as all were going down I tw:ned away
crying, and saying, " Was there no one at all to help them 1" upon which I
awoke, and my husband asked me what was the matter. I related the above
dream to him, and he asked me if I knew them. . I said I did not, and
thought I had never seen either of thenl. The impression of the dream and
the trouble it brought was over me all day. I remarked to my son it was the
anniversary of his birthday and my own also-the 10th of Firat Month, and
this is why I remember the date. .
The following Third Month I got a letter and newspaper from my brother
in Australia, named Allen, letting me know the sad trouble which had befallen
him in the lou, by drowning, of one of hia daughters and her companion.
Thou will see by the description given of it in the paper how the event
corresponded with my dream. My niece was born in Australia, and I never
saw her.
Please return the paper at thy convenience. Considering that our night
is their day, I must have been in sympathy with the sufferers at the time of
the accident, on the Tenth of Firat Month, 1878.
It is referred to in two separate places in the newspaper.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On .Apparitions OCC!IJ/1'1'ing BOon after Death. 421
From the Inglewood Adverli8er.
Friday evening, JatWOIr'!/ 11th, 1878.
A dreadful accident occurred in the neighbourhood of Wedderburn, on
Wednesday last, resulting in the death of two women, named Lehey and
Allen. It appears that the deceased were drivmg into Wedderburn in a
spring cart from the direction of Kinypanial, when they attempted to water
their horae at a dam on the boundary of Torpichen Station. The dam was
10 or 12 feet deep in one spot, and into this deep hole they must have inad-
vertently driven, for Mr. W. McKechnie, manager of Torpichen Station, upon
going to the dam 80me hours afterwards, discovered the spring cart and horae
under the water, and two women's hate floating on the surface . . . . .
The dam was searched, and the bodies of the two women, clasped in each
other's arms, recovered.
Extract from Evidence given at the Inquest.
Joseph John Allen, farmer, deposed: I identify one of the bodiea as that
of my sister. I saw her about 11 a.m. yesterday . • • The horae had
broken away and I caught it for her. Mrs. Lehey and my sister met me
when I caught the horae . . . They then took the horae and went to Mr.
Clarke's. I did not see them afterwards alive. William McKechnie
deposed . • . Aboull4 p.m. yesterday, I was riding by the dam when I
observed the legs of a horae and the cheat above the water.
From Mr. Green, Newry.
15th &wnd Mcmtk, 1885.
DBAR FRIEND, EDITH RICU.A.&D80N,-In reference to the dream that'
my wife had of seeing two women thrown out of a spring cart by their horae
stopping to drink out of some deep water, I remember she was greatly dis-
tressed about it, and seemed to feel great sympathy for them. It occurred
on the night of the 9th of January.
The reason I can remember the date 80 well is that the 10th was the
anniversary of my wife and our son's birthday. As the day advanced she
seemed to get worae, and I advised her to go out for a drive; when she
returned she told me she was no better, and alao aa.id she had told the driver
not to go near water, leat some accident should happen, as she had had such
a dreadful dream the night before, at the same time telling him the nature of
it. As my wife's niece did not live with her father, he was not told of it
until the next morning, which would be our evening of the 10th, and which
11"8 think accounted for the increased trouble she felt in sympathy with him.
Tuos. GlI.EEN.
Mrs. Green has had no other experience of the BOrt.
Inglewood is in Queensland, on the border of New South Wales.
Here the correspondence, if faithfully recorded, as we may fairly
suppose that it is, seems too close to be accidental; yet I am totally at
a loss how tp account for it. Had the coincidence been exact, we
might have taken refuge in the convenient word clairvoyance-though
Digitized by Coogle
422 On Apparitions occulrrVng Boon afteT Death. [Mar. IS,
it must never be forgotten that the hypotheses which that term covers
involve difficulties as great as they can ever be called on to solve. But
a clairvoyant vision of a scene, following that scene by many hours!
Here, again, the most natural analogy seems to be that of a picture or
reflection which survives after the reality has vanished. But of course
such a description brings us not one whit nearer to an explanation.1
I have kept to the last a very abnormal case which belongs to the
personal class, but where the person in whom the original of the
phantasm which appeared might be supposed to be interested was not
the percipient, but someone else in the .same house.
VIII.-From Mrs. Bacchus, of Sherbourne Villa, Leamington.
.A''9''ut, 1886.
On Saturday, October 18th [really 24th], 1868, we left some friends (the
Marquis and Madame de Lys) with whom we had been staying at Malvern
Wella, and went to Cheltenham. The reason for going to Cheltenham was
that a brother-in-law of my husband, Mr. George Copeland, was living there j
he was a great invalid, suffering from paralysis and quite unable to move,
but in full mental vigour, 80 his friends were anxious to see him as often as
possible to relieve the drearineas of his long illness, and we did not like to
be so near without paying him a visit. We knew that he had friends staying
in the house at the time, so determined to go to Cheltenham without letting
him know, to take lodgings near, and then tell him we had done so, that he
might not feel he ought to invite us to his house. We soon found some
rooms in York-terrace, close to Bay's Hill, Mr. Copeland's house. After we
had taken the rooms-the usual lodging-house kind-drawing-room and
bedroom at the back, and were going out, we noticed some medicine bottles
on the hall table, asked if anyone were ill in the house, and were told that
an old lady, a Mrs. R., and her daughter were in the dining-room, that
Mrs. R. had been ill for some time, that her illneas was not aerioUl
and that there was no immediate danger of her dying, in fact it was made
quite light of, and we thought no more about it. We just mentioned in the
course of the evening the name of the people lodging in the same house, and
Mr. Copeland said he knew who Mrs. R. was j she was the widow of a
physician who formerly practised in Cheltenham, that one of her daughten
was married to a master of the College, a Mr. N. Then I remembered
having seen Mrs. N. at a garden-party at Dr. Barry's the year before, and
had noticed her talking to Mrs. ~rry, and thought her very pretty. Thia
was all I knew or ever heard of the people. On Sunday morning, when I
came into the drawing-room for breakfast, I thought my husband looked.
little uncomfortable; however, he said nothing till I had finished breakfast,
then asked, "Did you hear a noise of a chair in the hall a little while ago 1
The old lady downstairs died in her chair last night, and they were wheeling
1 It may be observed that it was not till ihe evening of the 9th that Mr. AIleD,
.he percipient's brother, knew of his daughter's death. His mind may have supplied
the J.ink between the actual scene and the drmm in England, and the _ne would he
vividly present to him at the time when the dream occurred.-F. W. H. M.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] (hi, ApparitWnB OCC'I1II'1"iIng BOon afteT Death. 423
her into the bedroom at the back." I was very uncomfortable and frightened,
I had never been in a house with anyone dead before, and wanted to go, and
several friends who heard of it asked me to stay with them, but my husband
did not wish to move; he said it was a great deal of trouble, was really foolish
of me to wish it, that he did not like moving on Sunday, also that he did not
think it right or kind to go away because someone had died, that we should
think it unkind if the case had been our own, and other people had rushed
off in a hurry ; so we decided to stay. I spent the day with my brother-in-law
and nieces, and only returned to the lodgings in time to go to bed. I went
to sleep quickly as usual, but woke, I suppose, in the middle of the night,
not frightened by any noise, and for no reason, and saw distinctly at the
foot of the bed an old gentleman with a round rosy face, smiling, his hat in
his hand, dressed in an old-fashioned coat (blue) with braaa buttons, light
waistcoat, and trousers. The longer I looked at him, the more distinctly I
saw every feature and particular of his dr6l8, &e. I did not feel much
frightened, and after a time shut my eyes for a minute or two, and when I
looked again, the old gentleman was gone. Af~r a time I went to sleep,
and in the morning, while dreaaing, made up my mind that I would 88y
nothing of what I had seen till I 88W one of my nieces, and would then
describe the old gentleman, and ask if Dr. R. could be like him,
although the idea seemed absurd. I met my niece, Mary Copeland (now
Mrs. Brandling), coming out of church, and 88id, "Was Dr. R. like an
old gentleman with a round rosy face," &e., &e., describing what I had seen.
She stoPl>eei at once on the pavement, looking astonished. "Who could have
told you, aunt 1 We always said he looked more like a country farmer than
a doctor, and how odd it was that such a common looking man should have
had such pretty daughters."
This is an exact account of what I 88W. I am quite sure I should know
the old gentleman again, his face is clearly before me when I think of it
now, as at the time Mias de Lys had a letter from me with the story, and
sent it to a relation in France; she heard me tell it again some years after,
and said there was no variation whatever in it. My two nieces are still living,
and can remember exactly everything that happened as I told it to them.
Of course I cannot explain it in any way; the old lady who was dead was in
the room directly under the one I was sleeping in. The part of the whole
thing that surprised me the moat was, that I was so very little frightened as
to be able to sleep afterwards, and did not wish to disturb anyone else.
Mr. Bacchus writes :-
Leamington, September ~1tk, 1886.
I have read my wife's account of what happened at Cheltenham when we
were staying there in October, 1868; it is exactly what she told me at the
time, and I remember it all perfectly, also her telling my niece about it in the
morning.
IlENRY BACCHUS.
In answer to further questions, Mrs. Bacchus replied as follows :-
September 4th, 1886.
1. I have never seen anything of the kind before or since.
2. I gave the date from memory. The day was Saturday, and it waa
Sunday night, or early on Monday morning, that I 88W Dr. R.
Digitized by Coogle
424 On Apparitio'nB OCC'll/ITing soon after Death. [Mar. 18,
3. 1 do not remember the number in York-terrace; probably the Ti_
of October, 1868, would give Mrs. R.'s desth and where it took place. [The
Times gives the death at 7, York-terrace, Sunday, October 25th, 1868.]
4. The letter to Miss de Lys cannot be found ; all my letters to her were
burnt after she died in 1883.
5. Mr. Bacchus and Mrs. Henry Berkeley have given their accollDt.
Mrs. Brandling has not yet written.
6. I am quite sure I never saw any picture of any kind of Dr. R.
7. I do not know when he died: probably three or four years before
I saw him. His desth was spoken of in that way. I can find out if
necesaary from an old servant of Mr. Copeland's, who lives at Cheltenham,
and who ,,!ould remember him, and be able to inquire.
S. I do not remember anything about the light, if there was a night-light
in the room or not; I think not. When I say, .. do not remember," I mean
that being asked puzzles me; my impression of the whole thing is that it
was like a magic lantern, all dark round, and the figure, colour, and, clothea,
quite light and bright. I always see the whole thing when I speak of it.
ISABBLLB BACCHUS.
Mrs. Bacchus adds :-
I enclose Mrs. Brandling's paper, signed. As you say, her account is
dift'erent from mine. My decided impreBBion is that I first dBBCribed
Dr. R. to her, and Mrs. Berkeley says she is sure of this too. I have
always been convinced it was so for several reasons, one in particular, that I
remember the exclamation of surprise, and the question, "Who could have
told you 1" which would have mesnt nothing if I had been first told myself,
and in an odd way Mrs. Brandling has a sort of recollection of that too.
Still she wrote the account as well as she could, without seeing nllne or
talking to me, and it would be worthless in any other way. Dr. R.
died some years before I saw him; he lived in a house of his own, and in
another part of Cheltenham. 1 shall have the exact date of his death soon,
and will send it to you.
IU.BBLLB BACCHUS.
From Mrs. Berkeley, of Northcote Villa, Torrs Park, TIfracombe.
I remember well your staying in Cheltenham at Queim's-parade, and that.
after sleeping one night you told us that in the middle of the night, when you
were lying awake, and Uncle Henry asleep (I think), you saw a light, and a
little old man, whom you described as very rosy and very smiling, seemed to
come up through the floor and pass on through the ceiling; and next day you
found someone had lately died there. You told us about it, and we Mid a
Dr. R. had died there, and that, strangely enough, he was a particu-
larly roay, smiling-looking, little old man. We asked you how he nil
dressed, and I believe you said in ordinary clothes with braBB buttons, and
that we said that was how he dressed too, in dark blue cloth, with bl'Ul
buttons. We knew him very well by sight, and knew one of his daughters
to speak to. He had two. This is all I reslly recollect myself about it; you
know my memory is not good now. I somehow think MiBBie was the first to
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On .Apparitiom OCC1l/r"';l1Ig BOOn after Death. 425-
go up to see you the next morning, and I feel quite aure that you described
the little old man'a face to her first. As to his dress, I do not know whether
abe described it to you or you to her afterwards.
. M. OADllUUlU BB&KBLET.
Mrs. Berkeley further writes to Mrs. Bacchus:-
I have done what you wished at last; that is, I have written a very
abort account of the occurrence you refer to myaeU before reading youra at
all. Now I have just read YOUl'll, and I remember, of COUl'll8, more.
1, York-terrace and not Queen'a.parade W&B the place most certainly.
I meant that row of hol18eB, but put the wrong name. I had forgotten
Mrs. R.a' death altogether, &8 you will Bee. I thought it W&B he who
had died ~ere. He had given up practice a long time, I think. We used.to
188 him about Lansdowne perpetually. He lived there. His daughter
certainly is Mn. N., and that is the one we knew a little of, and we did
often remark on the contrast between father and daughtel'll. So muoh for
that part of your letter. Miaaie, I think, hu not lost her memory at.all, and
ahe would tell you correctly, and moat likely confirm more of your atory.
I have not corrected anything in my account, so that you ahould lee it exactly
as I first wrote it.
Mrs. Bacchus further writes :-
Octobe-r 5th., 1886.
Here is Mn. Brandling'a account. Like her lister, Ihe wrote as abe-
remembered before reading what I had said.
From Mrs. Brandling (niece of Mrs. Bacchua).
Octobe-r, 1886.
Once, when you and Uncle Henry came to Oheltenham you took rooms at
York or Bay'a-terrace, I forget which. In the same house were Mn.
R. and her. daughter. She was a widow. I think ahe died a day or
two after you came to the house. The morning after ahe died, I met you
coming from early Mass, and I think I asked you how you had paaaed the
night. I know you said that in the night Mr. R. had come to lee his.
wife, and that you had seen him, and you asked me what he was like. (He
died lOme time before.) I told you he had cheeks like rosy apples, and wa..
alwaYI amiling. I think I said a little more about him, but I cannot
remember. You said .. Yea, that W&B he, and that he was just what I said."
I think you said that he atood at the foot of your bed, and that he had oome
to the wrong room. I know you rather laughed over it; I asked you if you
were frightened, and you said "No." I asked you if Uncle Henry had seen
Mr. R. alao, and I am almost aure you said yes. You apoke quite
quietly, but I was aure you had been frightened, and I thought it frightened
you to be in the house where ahe had died, and I thought you ought not to
ltay in the house. I told Uncle Henry I thought it was very unoomfortable
for you to be there, and I asked if you might not aleep at our houae, but I
don't think Uncle Henry answered anything, and you atayed at least one
night more there-l think longer.
MARy. E. BlLUfDLING.
Digitized by Coogle
·426 On Apparitions OCC'Illrring soon after Death. [Mar. IS,
Mr. R. died (as Mrs. Bacchus has ascertained for us), August 30th,
1865.
* * * * * * * *
Thus far Mr. Gurney had written when he read the above paper at
.the General Meeting of the Society for Psychical Research in January,
1888. The paper was not yet, in his eyes, complete; and two of the
.cases which he quotes (the Tyre case and Mrs. Bacchus' case) will
suggest to the reader that he had not as yet decided over Iww long CI
period after death he should allow his examples to range. For in Mn.
Bacchus' case the decedent had been dead for three years when an
apparition resembling him was seen, and in the Scotch case the precise
date of death is unknown. In editing and supplementing this paper,
therefore, it has been necessary to consider what limit of time we should
adopt in defining an apparition" occurring soon after death." It is,
indeed, manifest that if once we face the supposition that an apparition
may be the result of some kind of energy exercised by a decedent whose
body is unquestionably dead, we have no logical ground for denying
that he may exert a similar energy many years after death. We
might therefore include in one and the same class all cases where the
proof that a hallucination was not merely subjective depends in some
way or other upon the recognition of the figure seen; when sneh
recognition satisfies at least one of the three conditions given by Mr.
Gurney on page 404. And we might broadly distinguish this class
from auother main class of Phantasms of the Dead, where there is no
recognition of the figure seen, and where, therefore, its evidential
quality depends not on its own characteristics, but on the fact of its
being seen by several persons, simultaneously or successively (or on
certain cognate arguments which need not be here discussed). But if
we were in this way to expand the above paper, we should run the risk
.of losing sight of one of its principal contentions, namely, that "the
moment of death is, in time, the central point of a cluster of abnormal
experiences occurring at a distance, of which some precede, while others
follow the death." And this observation is so important that it seems
best to dwell on it here almost exclusively, and to avoid the danger of
.obscuring it with other matter.
It might conduce to a clearer view of the facts if we could draw a
-curve, showing the proportionate number of apparitions obsen.oo at
various periods before and after death. It would then be seen that
t!Ml)'-increase very rapidly for the few hours which precede death, and
decrea~~ gradually during the hours and days which follow. In the
present state of our evidence, however, and considering all the problems
involved, th~ would perhaps be an affectation of more exactness than
we can actuall) attain, were we to set forth such a curve, embodyiDg
the dates, in refe~,nce to death, of all the cases as yet received by us.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitiom occurring Boon after Death. 421
It may be enough to say, generally, that if the length of the base-line
represents a year, and the point with the highest ordinate the moment
of death, the comparative frequency of veridica! apparitions might be
somewhat as follows ;-
ONE YEAR
That is to say, the recognised apparitions decrease rapidly in the
few days after death, then more slowly; and after about a year's
time they become 80 sporadic that we can no longer include them in a
steadily descending line. It may be convenient, therefore, to restrict
our additional examples to cases occurriug less than a year after death j
and we may arrange them, as far as possible, in an order determined
by the progressive length of the interval between the death and the
apparition.
Yet one more point must first be touched on, to avoid misconception
of the phrase just cited, that "the moment of death is the centre of a
cluster of abnormal experiences, of which some precede, while others
follow the death:" Mr. Gurney, of course, did not mean to assume that .
the act of death itself was the cause of all these experiences. Those
which occur before death may be caused or conditioned, not by the .
death itself, but by the abnormal state, as of coma., delirium, &c., which
preceded the death. This we say because we have many instances
where veridical phantasms have coincided with moments of crisiB,-
carria.ge-a.ccidents and the like,-occurring to distant agents, but not
followed by death. Accordingly we find that in almost all cases where
a phantasm, apparently veridical, has preceded the agent's death, that
death was the result of disease and not of accident. To this rule there
are very few exceptions. There is a case given in Pl£antaBmtJ of the
LWing [Vol. II. p. 52] where the phantasm seems on the evidence to
have preceded by about half an hour (longitude allowed for) a sudden
death by drowning. In this case the percipient was in a Norfolk farm-
Digitized by Coogle
428 On Apparitions occu1'ring soon after Death. [Mar. 18,
• house, the drowning man-or agent-was in a storm off the island of
Tristan d'Acunha; and we have suggested that an error of clocks or
of observation may account for the discrepancy. In another case the
.death was in a sense a violent one, for it was a suicide; but the morbidly
excited state of the girl a few hours before death-when her phantasm
was seen-was in itself a state of crisis. But there are also a few
recorded cases (none of which were cited in Phanf<lmns of the Living),
where a phantasm or double of some person has been observed some
days previous to that person's accidental death. The cases of this sort
as yet received have been too few to enable me to deal with them here ;
but if such "doubles" should be held to bear any real relation to the
impending death, an alteration would have to be made in the curve
.above suggested.
Thus much it has seemed needful to say in order to explain the
difficulty of representing by anyone curved line the true time-
relations involved in this complex matter. We now proceed briefly
to review some of the cases where the interval between death and
phantasm has been measurable by minutes or hours.
It is not easy to get definite cases where the interval has been
measurable by minutes " for if the percipient is at a distance from the
.agent we can seldom be sure that the clocks at both places have been
correct, and correctly observed; while if he is present with the agent
we can rarely be sure that the phantasm observed is more than a mere
subjective hallucination. Thus we have several accounts of a rushing
sound heard by the watcher of a dying man just after his apparent
death, or of some kind of luminosity observed near his person; but this
is just the moment when we may suppose some subjective hallucination
likely to occur, and if one person's senses 1Ioione are affected we cannot
allow much evidential weight to the occurrence. I may add that
one of our cases [II., p. 639] is remarkable in that the auditory
hallucination-a sound as of female voices gently singing-was
heard by five persons,-by four of them, as it seems, independently,-
and in two places, on different sides of the house. At the same time,
~me person,-the Eton master whose mother had just died, and
who was therefore presumably in a frame of mind more prone to
hallucination than the physician, matron, friend, or servants who
.actually did hear the singing,-himself heard nothing at all. In this
case the physician felt no doubt that Mrs. L. was actually dead; and
in fact it was during the laying out of the body that the sounds occurred.
In including this case and similar ones in Phanf<lmn8 of tile Lit;ng,
Mr. Gurney expressly stated [II., pp. 190-2], that he did so because in
his view they involved at least an element of thought-transference
between the living minds of the percipients, whatever other influence
mayor may not have proceeded from the deceased person. But if
J
1889.] On ..4pparitiom OCC1J/l"1'ing Boon after Death. 429
we are finding reason to suppose that the decedent's power of
influencing other minds may persist after death, it seems reasonable to
dwell on that aspect of such an incident as this.1
There are some other circumstances also in which, in spite of the
fact that the death is already known, a hallucination occurring shortly
afterwards may have some slight evidential value. Thus we have a
case where a lady who knew that her sister had died a few hours
previously, but who was not herself in any morbidly excited condition,
seemed to see someone enter her own dining-room, opening and shutting
the door. The percipient (who had never had any other hallucination)
was much astonished when she found no one in the dining-room, but it
did not till some time afterwards occur to her that the incident could
be in any way connected with her recent 1oss. This reminds us of a
case [II., p. 6941 where the Rev. R. M. Hill sees a tall figure rush
into the room, which alarms and surprises him, then vanishes before
he has time to recognise it. An uncle, a tall man, dies'about that
moment, and it is remarked that although Mr. Hill knew his uncle to
1 The ProcmlifI(J' of the American Society for Psychical n.e-rch (Part IV., p. 405)
eontain a cue where aphysician and his wife, aleeping inseparatebutadjoining rooms,
are both of them awakened by a bright light. The physician __ a figure standing in
the light; his wife, who gete up to see what the light in her husband'a room may be,
dOO8 not reach that room till the figure has disappeared. The figure is not clearly
identified, but has some resemblance to a patieut of the physician's, who has died BUd-
denly (from hemOlThage) about 3 hours, before calling for her doctor, who did not
anticipate this BUdden end. Even this resemblance did not strike the percipient until .
after he knew of the death. and the defect in f'tCO(IRi'ioB has prevented me from quoting
this cue at length.
In the aame volume (p. 443) is another case, which, although remote and un-
oorroborated, JIOIIIMIIIBe8 coDliderabie interest. I will IIUIIIlIIAI'iae it here; but readers
interested in the BUbjectahould read the 1lqJcJri 011 PIuJrattum. "tad P~imtftll and
Apperidiz, a group of narratives whioh abundantly testify to the zeal of Mr. Hodpon
and his coadjutors in the t8ak of collection _
Mr. IraSaylea, of Washington, D.C., GeologiatU.S. Geological Survey, stateathat
one day in tho apringof1857hisnear neighbourand intimate friend, Mrs. Stewart(now
dead) told him that on the night previous shehad awoke her husband (now dead) with
a IICreaID. .. What is the matterf " said he. .. Why don't you see J ohuny there! .He
says to me. •Mot1ler, el&q'w Moe file. fte bulld mteml rigllt Mre;' and he pointed to
a hole right over his right eye." Mr. Stewart replied, ..I don't see anything-you've
beendreaming." "No, I have not been dreaming. I was as wideawake as I am now."
Thia!ohnny was a BOn who had gone with a friend to Kanau-Co tiJen in a state of
belligerentexcitement over tiJe status of the incipient State on the Slavery and Free-
aoi1 iaBUe." The mother was consequently very am:ioua about him, but the youngman
himself wrote in a sanguine tone. A fortnight after the vision J ohuny's friend re-
turned from Kansas, and told Mrs. Stewart "that on a certain day, at 4 p.m., a
Mi880urian shot Johnny, the ball entering his head just above his right eye. More·
over, the day of tiJe shooting proved to be the very day on which Mrs. Stewart had
her vision, at night, about six hours after the shooting."
Mr. Sayles' evidence, it will be seen, is equal to firat-hand; but an independent
eorroboration of the date and manner ofdeath is much to be desired.
Digitized by Coogle
430 On Apparitions occu/rnng Boon after Death. [Mar. 18,
be ill, the anxiety which he may have felt would hardly have given rise
to an unrecognised and formidable apparition.
There are cases also where a percipient who has hBd an apparition
of a friend shortly after that friend's known death has had veridical
hallucinations at other times, and has never had any hallucination of
purely sUbjective origin. Such a percipient may naturally suppose
that his apparition of the departed friend poBSeSBed the same veridical
character which was common to the rest--a.lthough it was not,. Ie
evidential, since the fRet of the death was already known.
For the present, however, it will, be better to return to the cases
which are free from this important prim4jacie drawba.ck-cases where
the percipient was at any rate unaware that the death, which the
phantasm seemed to indicate, had in fact taken place.
In the first place, there are a few cases where a percipient is
informed of a death by a veridical phantasm, and then, some hours
afterwards, a similar phantasm-difl'ering perhaps in detail-recurs.
Such was the case of Archdeacon Farler [I., p. 414], who trcice
during one night saw the dripping figure of a friend who, as it turned
out, had been drowned during the previous day. Even the tint
appearance was several hours after the death, but this we might
explain by the latency of the impression till a season of quiet. The
second appearance may have been a kind of recrudescence of the first;
but if the theory of latency be discarded, so that the first appearance
(if more than a mere chance-coincidence) is held to depend upon some
energy excited by the decedent after death, it would afl'ord some ground
for regarding the second appearance as also veridical. The figure in
this case was once more seen, a fortnight later; and on this occasion,
as A~chdeacon Farler informs me, in ordinary garb, with no special
trace of accident.
A similar repetition occurs (as noted by Mr. Gurney, Vol. I., p.231,
note) in the cases of Major Moncriefi' [I., p. 414]; of Mr. Keulemans
[I., p. 444] (where the second phantasm was held by the percipient
to convey a fresh veridical picture); of Mr. Hernaman .[1., p. 5611
where, however, the agent is alive, though dying, at the time of each
appearance; in the case of Mrs. Ellis, [II., p. 59] ; in the case of Mrs.
D., [II., p. 467]; of Mrs. Fairman, [II., p. 482], and of Mr. F. J. Jones,
[II., p. 500], where the death was again due to drowning,and the act of
dying cannot, therefore, have been very prolonged. Wema.y note also
Mrs. Reed's case, [II., p. 237], where a phantom is soon three times,
the first two visions being apparently about the time of death, the third,
(occurring to a different percipient, whether independently or not is not
clear,) a few hours later. And in Captain Ayre's case, [II., p. 2561 a
phantom seen by one percipient at about the time of the agent's deatb,
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparit·Wm OCC'IJ/lTing BOon ajte't' Death. 431
is followed by hallucinatory BOUnds heard by the same and by another
percipient for some three hours longer, till the news of the death arrives.
In the case of Mrs. Cox, again, [II., p. 235], a child sees a phantom at
about 9 p.m. and Mrs. Cox sees the same figure, but in a different
attitude, at about midnight j the exact hour of the corresponding death
being unknown. In the case of Miss Harriss, [II., p. 117], a hallucina-
tory voice, about the time of the death, but not suggesting the decedent,
is followed by a dreMn the next night, which presents the dead person
as in the act of dying. One or two other cases might be added to this
listj and it is plain that the matter is one towards which observation
should be specially directed.
Turning now to the cases where the phantasm is not repeated, but
occurs some hours after death, let us take a few narratives where the
interval of time is pretty certain, and consider how far the 'hypothesis
of l.atency looks probable in each instance.
Where there is no actual hallucination, but only a feeling of unique
malaise or distress, following at a few hours' interval on a friend's death
at a distance,-'-&8 in the Rev.J.M. Wilson's case, [I., p. 280]-it is very
hard to picture to ourselves what has taken place. Some injurious shock
communicated to the percipient's brain at the moment of the agent's
death may conceivably have slowly worked itself into consciousness.
The delay may have been due (so to say) to physiological rather than
to psychical causes.
Next take a case like that of Captain Wheatcroft, [I., p. 420], or'of
Mrs. Evens, [II., p. 690], or Mr. Wingfield Baker, [I.,p. 199], or Sister
Bertha, [I.,p. 522,note], where a definite hallucination of sight or sound
occurs some hours after the death, but in the middle of the night. It
is in a case of this sort that we can most readily suppose that a
"telepathic impact" received during the day has lain dormant until
other excitations were hushed, and has extemalised itself as a halluci-
nation after the first sleep, just as when we wake from a first sleep some
subject of interest or anxiety, which has been thrust out of our thoughts
during the day, will often well upwards into consciousness with quite a
new distinctness and force. But on the other hand, in the case (for
instance) of Mrs. Teale, [II. p. 693], there is a deferment of some eight
hours, and then the hallucination occurs while the percipient is sitting
wide awake, in the middle of her family. And in one of the most
remarkable dream-ca.ses in our collection, [I., p. 370], Mrs. Storie's
experience does not resemble the mere emergence of a latent impression.
It is long and complex, and suggests some sort of clairvoyancej-but if it
be "telepathic clairvoyance "-that is, a picture transferred from the
decedent's mind,-then it almost requires us to suppose that aPOBHn.ortem
picture was thus transferred j-a view of the accident and its con-
sequences fuller than any which could have flashed through the dying
2F
Digitized by Coogle
432 On Apparitions occurring Boon after Death. [Mar. 18,
man s mind during his moment of sudden and violent death from cc the
striking off of the top of the skull" by a railway-train.
If once we assume that the decedent's mind could continue to act on
living persons after his bodily death, then the confused horror of the
series of pictures which were presented to Mrs. Storie's view,-mixed, it
sh.ould be said,with an element oflresh ckparture which there was nothing
in the accident itself to suggest,-would correspond well enough to what
one can imagine a man's feelings a few hours after such a death to be.
This is trespassing, no doubt, on hazardous ground; but if once we admit
communication from the other side of death as a working hypothesis,
we must allow ourselves to imagine something as to the attitude of the
communicating mind; and the least violent supposition will be that
that mind is still in part at least occupied with the same thoughts which
last occupied it on earth. The case, cited by Mr. Gurney, of the gar-
dener Bard and Mni. de Freville well illustrates this view. And it
is possible that there may be some interpretation of this kind for some
of the cases where a funeral scene, or a dead body, is what the
phantasm presents. In the remarkable case [I., p. 265] where a lady
-about ten hours after the death-sees the body of a well-known
London physician lying in a bare unfurnished room (a cottage-hospital
abroad), the description, as we have it, would certainly fit best with
some kind of telepathic clairvoyance, prolonged after death ;-BOme
power on the decedent's part to cause the percipient to share the
picture which might at that moment be occupying his own mind.
This view will sometimes be hardly distinguishable from the view
taken in Phatn.tasms of the Living-that the coffin and other signs of
death form a symbolism, in which the percipient's mind may embody
the obscure and painful shock. It is not quite clear whether in any of
our cases a coffin was seen before the body can possibly have been
placed in a coffin. In Colonel Jones's incident, however [I., p. 5511
this probably happened. I subjoin a narrative, which we owtf to the
kindness of Colonel Crea.lock, C.B., in which the origin of the phantom's
dramatic a.ction-whether in the agellt's or in the percipient's mind-
may be fairly debated.
IX.-The following account is extracted from Vol. I., No. 4, (April,
1885), of I'm Ninety-Five, the Regimental newspaper of the 2nd
Battalion, Derbyshire Regiment. The account is by Colonel J. N.
Crealock, C.B., who bas supplemented it by letters cited below.
The incident occurred on the night after the battle of Ulundi, July.
1879:-
As we approached the river (Umvoboai) the two Zulu .servants of Mr. D.
came to ask me where their' master was. I told them I had not seen him
aince the close of the battle, but that he would no doubt soon turn up. I
Digitized by Coogle
1889.J On Apparitions occwrrimg BOOn ajteT Death. 433
imagilied then that he waa seeking for information from the wounded Zulus.
That eve~ I dined with Sir Evelyn Wood, and about 10 retired to our
part of the bivouac. . • •
Light· were my slumbers in thoae daya. About midnight aomething
wakened me up. From habit, one uaed to wake up with every BeDae alive, ao
I am convinced I was not in any half-sleeping state. Rising, I looked
towards figures near me, and fifth in the row of sleeping forms I saw Mr. D.
stooping down and rolling up his bedding, which his two native aenants
then removed. .I thought it odd his taking his bed away, but I lay down
again and slept undisturbed until daybreak.
As we were starting the next morning the Adjutant-General asked me if
I knew that Mr. D. had pasaed the previoua night in Colonel Buller's camp.
[This, as it turned out, was a mere mistake.] I said I had heard nothing of
him or his doings, but had aeen hiln during the night come and take his bed
away from our resting-place.
On arriving at our camping ground, Mr. D.'s aenants came to ask where
their master's tent was to be pitched; they alao inquired if I knew where he
was. I felt rather astonished at this, and said, "Why ask me 1 I have
not seen hiIn to speak to for 24 hours, and you were with hiIn when he took
his bed away." Longeast, our interpreter, here explained that they had not
seen hiln since the battle, and had never touched his bed or visited his usual
sleeping-place as I had described. I now wrote to Colonel Buller to ask hiln
if he had been in his lines, as believed by the Adjutant-General. The answer
came, .. He has not been seen since the battle. "
I was now fairly puzzled, and went to report the matter to Lord
Chelmsford. His aervants, with aome Basutos, were now aent back to the
scene of the fight to aearch for any traces of hiIn. Nothing waa heard of hiln,.
untila few days laterthe natives in one or two kraals, some 50 miles awayfrom
Ulundi, told Lord Chelmsford that a fair white man without hair on his face,
and in a blue coat, had been killed beyond the kraal of Ulundi, and that he
had ridden a chestnut horae. His lordship now recalled to me that I had
reported to hiln I had seen a white man, on a chestnut horae, riding in that
direction. We felt sure this muat be D., and six weeka later, when Sir
Garnet Wolaeley visited mundi, his body was found as described. There
cannot be any aort of doubt but that he met his death about noon the day of
Ulundi, and that he had been dAad 12 hours when I saw hiln come to his
usual resting-place at headquarters. The abaolute belief I had in havingaeen
him that night prevented his being aearched for for 18 hours.
Colonel Crea.lock adds:-
A. Q. M. General's Hut, North Camp, Aldershot.
J'Il1,y 21st, 1888.
I had gone through 20 months of dangers and hard work, and was not by
any means an overstrung or over-excited person, and the poor fellow who
was killed (a aon of Lord -- ) was no friend of mille, although, I verily
believe, he had more feeling for me than for any other man in South Africa,
excepting Lord Chelmsford.
Digitized by Coogle
434 On Apparitions ocC'Urring Boon after Death. [Mar. 18,
And again, November 6th, 1888, in answer to inquiries :-
The camp was moved at daybreak. I know nothing of the bedding.
There was not the least reason why I should notice it, and no trace of
a suspicion that there was trouble about this gentleman. I have no sort of
reason to think the bedding was removed. I have. never had any sort of
hallucination, and am rather a sceptic in such matters.
I have no proof that he died at any particular time. I have ocular proof
he was riding into danger at noon ; we know he fell into the hands of the
Zulus, and we know his body was found not above a mile from where I saw
him, but whether he lived up to midnight-tortured or not-we have no
proof.
The introduction of the subordinate figures here does not, I think,
tell strongly for one interpretation rather than another. They form part
of a dream·imagery which may have originated either with Colonel
Crealock or with the decedent himself. There is nothing improbable in
the supposition that after so sudden a change of condition as death must
involve the thoughts of the departed may long remain confused; or, on
the other hand, his communications with the world which he has quitted
may perhaps themselves be neceSSILrily of a dream-like character.
X.-It may be remembered that in PhantaBm8 ofthe Living a case of
Dr. Li~bea.ult's was given where planchette-writing announced a death
which seems to have occurred almost at the moment of the writing. As
110 parallel to that case I here introduce one where the message-as we
are told-was written some five hours after the death. The message,
no doubt, comes ostensibly from an intelligence other than that of the
decedent; but I need hardly here repeat that the authorship which
automatic messages claim for themselves is by no means to be taken for
granted. Our best means of judging whence such messages come is by
scrutinising the information which they contain.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN, Februarv, 1889. pp.67-69.
Under the heading of "Communications of Facts unknown to the
Medium and to the Sitters," the Editor (M. Alexander Aksakow, well
known to me) gives the following case, which he has recommended to
me as carefully established.
On January 19th, 1887, I received a visit from the engineer officer Kaigoro-
dow, who resides in Wilns. He narrated to me the following circumstances.
He had as govemeB8 for his children, Mademoiselle Emma Stramm, a SwiM,
from the town of Neufchatel, who POBBeB8ed the gift of automatic writing.
A,t a rreance held at nine o'clock on the evening of January 15th at the house
of Colonel Kaigorodow at Wilns, the following communication was given in
French in his presence. I have been shown the original, and quote this from
a copy of it. The medium, who was in her normal state, asked :-
.. Is Lydia here 1" (This was a personality which had manifested itself
at previous sittings.)
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitions OCC'Ul1"1'ing Boon after Death. 435
.. No, Louis is here, and wishes to impart a piece of news (Ne1!igkeit) to
his sister.II [Louis was the name of a deceased brother.]
" What is it 1"
.. A person of thy acquaintance passed away (istfurt) about three o'clock
to-day."
" What am I to understand by this 1"
"That is to say,-he is dead."
"Whol"
" August Duvanel."
" What was hisillneaa 1"
"The formation of a clot of blood (mutlltockml.!J). Pray for the redemp-
tion of his lOul."
Two weeks later, Colonel Kaigorodow, who was again in Petenburg,
showed me a letter from David Stramm, the father of the medium, dated
from Neufchatel, on January 18th, 1887 (new style) ; thus written three days
after the death of Duvanel. This letter was received at Wilna on January
23rd. In it her father informs her of the event in the following words. I
copy them literally from the original ;-
"My much loved daughter. . . . I will now tell thee a great piece
of news (Neuigkeit). August Duvanel died on January 15th, about three o'clock
in the afternoon. It was, 80 to speak, a sudden death, for he had only been
ill a few houn. He was attacked by blood-clottPlg when he was at the
bank. He spoke very little, and everything that he said was for thee. . .
He commended himself to thy prayen. These were his last words."
The difference in time between Wilna and Switzerland is about an hour.
It would thus be four o'clock in Wilna when Duvanel's death· occurred, and
five houn later this piece of news was communicated by automatic writing.
But who was Duvanel 1 And why should his death be .. a great piece of
news" for Mademoiselle Emma Stramm 1 In reply to questions which I put
to him in writing, Colonel Kaigorodow gave me the following explanation ;-
.. When Mademoiselle Emma Stramm lived with her parents in Neufchatel,
this Herr Duvanel wanted to marry her. But he was met with a decided
refusal on the part of the young lady. 'As her parents, on the other hand,
were fu favour of the marriage, and endeavoured to penuade her to consent
to it, she resolved to leave her fatherland and take a situation BII a governeu.
The last communication she had with Duvanel WBII some time before her
departure in the year 1881. She did not keep up any correspondence with
him. She had seen Duvanel's family only two or three times in all. A year
after her departure he left Neufchatel, and remained in Canton Zurich until
his death." 1
We may now pass on to cases where the interval between the death
and the phantasms seems gradually extended beyond what the possible
latency of the impression could explain.
In Mr. Grant's case [II., p. 688], we get an interval after death
pro~bly of some 18 hours, and after that interval not a pha.ntom but a
mere impression of presence, though a. very definite impression. In Mr.
1 As we go to pre88. we receive further particulars corroborating this case, but
introducing fresh perplexity into its interpretation.
Digitized by Coogle
436 On Apparitions occwrring Boon after Death. [Mar. 18,
H. E. M.'s case [II., p. 702], a dream which comes a few hours after the
death is followed some 20 hours later by a phantom seen with waking
eyes. The reinforcement of the impreSsion here is a notable feature, and
would be at least consistent wIth continued activity on the decedent's
part.
We next find one or two cases where a figure has appeared shortly
after death to some person who did not know the decedent when alive.
In such cases there can seldom be anything approaching certainty as to
the recognition; but when the hallucination is a unique event in the
percipient's experience, and the figure is described by him without
suggestion from persons who knew the decedent, the coincidence seems
strong. In the following case (though it is somewhat remote, and
corroboration is not now attainable), there is a coincidence sufficiently
marked to deserve record. The writer (who wishes his name reserved)
is a friend of Mr. Howe, a barrister, of Devereux-court, Strand, to
whom we owe this case :-
2200 FelW'lta'ry, 1882.
XI.-My DEAR HOWR,-Here are the facta. They 'are quite at your
service. I should, however, prefer that my name was not mentioned.
It is now 15 years or more ago I went to visit a friend living with his
sisters near Kilburn. Being very hot weather, I went in a hansom, without
top coat. The young ladies went early to bed, and I and my friend, a young
barrister, since dead, sat up till about midnight. We then found it was
raining terrifically. As no cab could be got I reluctantly availed myaelf of
the invitation to stay all night. A bed, I was told, was ready. This I took,
and went to bed, and leaving aligllt a small bead of gas, and, having locked
my door, went to sleep. Shortly afterwards I awoke, and isw in the dim
light a girl brushing her hair. I coughed-no result. I jumped out in a
little of a fright, and caught nothing. Turning up the gas, I toaaed about
until daylight. In the morning I told F--, expecting to be laughed at.
He, however, whistled low, and said, "For OOO's sake don't tell my sisters.
Their governe88 and companion slept in that room, and her body was removed
by her friends the day of your arrival. 'l'bey, of course, will aaaume you
have seen her." My description, of course, seemed to fit. An optical
illusion probably. Still it is curious that my only optical delusion should
occur on the only occasion when I slept under such conditions. J had drunk
one or two gla88es of sherry, nothing more, and I was absolutely ignorant of
the existence of a governe88 or companion. I knew nothing whatever
concerning the young ladies to whom I was that night introduced. Here is
all the story. It impre88ed me a good deal.
We cannot, of course, insist on the details in an uncorroborated
account like this. It is possible"for instance, that the death may not
have been quite so recent as represented.
The case of the Rev. G. Lewis (quoted in Proceedings III., p. 93)
somewhat resembles this; but presents the new feature that, although
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] (}n, Appariti<mB occ'U'mmg Boon a/teT Death. 437
the percipient was not acquainted with the decedent, the decedent on
his part had died in a state of anxiety to see the percipient.
Curiously similar is the case of the Rev. A. Bellamy [II., p. 216,
note], where again the percipient was not acquainted with the decedent,
but the decedent on her part had made a "compact" to appear if
possible to the percipient's wifo, who was, in fact, in the same r--..om
with the percipient, but asleep.
Again, there are a few cases where a vision of a person known
to be dead has been shared by more than one percipient. A singular
case of this kind is that of Captain Towns [I., p. 213], where seven
persons perceived the same phantasmal figure. A similar one may be
added here, where there were two percipients. It must be remembered,
however, that in such cases Mr. Gurney thought it possible that a
merely subjective ha.llucination might be communicated, by a species of
injection, from one percipient to another.
XII.-From Mrs. Judd, sister to Miss Harris, Associate S. P. R.,
through whose kindness the account is obtained.
.A'IlgWt 6th, 1885.
My grandmother was a tall, stately, and handsome woman, even at an
advanced age. She was one of the Gastrella, an old and aristocratic family.
Her latter years were spent with my mother (her daughter), and in her 84th
year she died. She had suffered long ; she had attained a great age ; there·
fore, though we miaaed her, our grief was not of that poignant and exc888ive
kind which produces hallucination.
Mysiater and myself had always slept in a room adjoining hers, and-fol'
want of space in her apartment-there stood by our bedside a large old-
fashioned clock, which had been presented to our grandmother on ber
wedding-day. More precious than gold was this old clock to her heart; "by
it," she often said, "have I hundreds of times watched the slow hours p&88
in my early married days when my husband had to leave me. by it have I
timed the children's return from achool" ; and she begged us, her grand-
children, to leave our bedroom door unlocked at night that ahe might
consult the old clock when she rose each morning. We have often opened
our sleepy eyes at four on a summer morning and smiled to see the stately
figure already there. For up to the last illneaa ahe retained the habits of her
youth, and rose at what we deemed fearfully primitive hours.
About three' weeks after her death I awoke one morning in October, and
saw distinctly the well-known tall figure, the calm old face, the large dark
eyes uplifted as usual to the face of the old clock. I closed my eyes for lOme
seconds, and then slowly reopened them. She stood there still. A second
time I closed my eyes, a second time opened them. She was gone.
I was looked upon by my family in those days, and particularly by the
sister who shared my room, as romantic. Th.erefore I carefully kept to
myself the vision of the morning and pondered over it alone.
At night, however, when we were once more preparing for rest, my
aiater-my eminently practical and unromantic 818ter-apoke to me. " I
Digitized by Coogle
438 On Apparitions occurring soon afte'r Death. [Mar. 18,
cannot go to bed without telling you something, only don't laugh, for I am
really frightened j I Ba,.. grandmamma this morning!" I was amazed. I
inquired of her the hour, what the vision was like, where it stood, what it
was doing, &c., and I found that in every respect· her experience was
similar to mine. She had preserved silence all day for fear of ridicule.
I may add that we even now speak of this incident with awe, though
ro long years have sinced passed over our heads, and we invariably end by
Baying, eAoh of us, "It was very strange j it is impoesible to understand it."
CAROLINE JUDD.
In reply to our request for an account of the incident from the
other percipient, Mrs. Judd wrote:-
72, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square..
I send you herewith all that my sister, Mrs. Dear, recalls of the vision,
doubly seen, of our late grandmother. She objects to the weariness of com-
position, therefore I took down her reminiscences, and she signed it as true.
CAROLINE JUDD.
Some years ago, a few months after the death of my grandmother, I
awoke in the dim light just before dawn, to see an appearance exactly like
her standing in the old accustomed place from whence, when alive, she was
wont to consult an old alock, her own property, at very early hours. I said
nothing to anyone till we retired again for the night, when I found to my
surprise, my sister, who slept with me, had seen the Bame appearance at the
aame time.
MARy DEAL
Miss Harris confirms the above account 88 follows :-
Bewel, Alfrick, near Worcester.
A,cgmt 20th [1885].
Both sisters mentioned seeing my grandmother the day of the apparition
before father and mother, then alive, and myself. I think she must have
died about 1866, but I was then very young, and can't remember exactly.
I will find out if it is important, but my sisters have often mentioned it since.
ANNIB 1IAB.B.u.
Somewhat similar is the following case, where a dream of one
percipient's seems to have coincided with a hallucination seen by the
other in a waking state. The recognition, however, by the waking
percipient W88 rather one of impression than of actual vision.
XIII.-This case was received on April lOth, 1889, by Mrs.
Sidgwick, from a lady known to her, and who had previously given her
the same account vivd voce.
The following circumstance happened in the autumn of 1874:-
A near relation of mine had been engaged to an officer, who died abroad
in the summer of that year under rather painful circumstances, and the
lady in question was for long afterwards in a very low state of health and
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Appariticms occwrring /!loon after Death. 439
spirita. That winter especially her nervousne811 and depression caused
much anxiety to her friends, and waa the reason why the incident which I
am about to relate waa never mentioned to her, and therefore makes it impos-
sible for me to give the names of the persona concerned in it now.
I waa sharing her room, and one night we hadgone to bed aa usual. Her
bed waa beside mine and opposite both waa the fireplace. She had been
asleep BOme time, but I waa stilll;ying awake, the room being lighted by the
fire only, when I became conscious of a figure standing at the foot of her bed.
I am very short-sighted, and do not see well even at a short distance, but I
received at the time the distinct impreaaion that this waa the figure of her
liane/, dressed in uniform.
1 have no remembrance of being startled or surprised, onlyof the distinct
impreuion that this figure stood there, and was that of this gentleman. It
lleemed to fade away, and I should have thought no more of the occurrence
except aa a half-dream or fancy, when my companion suddenly woke up,
crying bitterly, and said, "Oh, A., I thought I saw M. standing at
the foot ofmy bed." I endeavoured to soothe her, and carefully refrained
from telling her what I had myself Been, fearing the effect upon her in her
nervous state, butthe impreaaion at the time and since baa always been moat
distinct, that I saw exactly what I have described.
The narrative next to be given is curious in more than one respect.
In the first place, it shows on what a mere chance the evidential quality
of any caae may depend. Here we have a child of eight, who, in the
midst of her grief for her mother's death, sees that mother's form standing
by her bedside. Had this been all, we should, of course, have classed
the hallucination as purely subjective. But, it chanced that the child's
scream was heard by two other persons, and that those persons, rushing
to the room, shared, as it appears, in the vision. And the evidence of
one of these witnesses-coming to us at second-hand, indeed, but
through a second channel, as well as through the child herself-gives
to the child's first-hand evidence II. value which it could never have
possessed but for the accident that the scream was so quickly heard and
answered.
In the second place, we have here another case where a cumpact was
made by the decedent to appear, if possible, to a friend (Lady E.) who
is still living.1 That compact was not, strictly speaking, fulfilled (though
Lady E. eagerly expected it) ; but the decedent appeared to others, two
of whom at least where wholly unaware that any such compact had
been made. This resembles the case already mentioned in the present
paper, where the decedent, who appeared to t,he Rev. A. Bellamy, had
Dlade a compact,-not with himself, to whom she was a stranger, but
with his wife.
We have already remarked several, times that cases where an
apparition follows on II. compact (the d'<lath not being known to the
percipient) are commoner than mere chance (so far as we can judge)
1 It is not certain whether the decedent made a similar promise to her husband.
Digitized by Coogle
440 On .Apparit·wns occurring 800n after Death. [Mar. 18,
could account for; and it seems possible that such a compact, suggesting
to the decedent the wish to cause some apparition, may sometimes
induce an apparition seen by some percipient other than the friend
with whom the compact was made. .
XIV.-The following account comes from a lady known to me, who
prefers that her name should not be given. .
March, 1889.
My mother died on on the 2'th of June, 187', at a house called The
Hunter's Palace, Silima, Malta, where we were then residing for her health.
She had always a great fear of being buried alive, and extracted a promise
from my father that wherever she died he should not allow her to be buried
for a week, and I remember we had to get special permiuion, &8 it is the
custom to bury within three days in a hot climate. The third day after
death was the laat time I saw her, and I then went into the room with my
father, and we cut off all her hair, which W&8 very long and curly. I have
no remembmnce of being at all nervous or in the leaat frightened. On the
seventh day after death she W&8 buried, and it W&8 on that night ahe appeared
to me. I slept in a little dreaaing-room opening out of the larger nursery,
which,like many old houses, had twosteps leading into it. The smoking-roo~
where my father genemlly spent biB evenings, W&8 &Cro88 the hall, and my
little room al80 had a door opening on to the hall, 80 that it W&8 not neceaary
for me to go through the nursery, where my two little brothers slept, to get
out. On this particular evening the weather W&8 stiflingly hot, and intensely
still. I had been put to bed earlier tltan usual, and had no light in the room ;
the Venetian shutters were open as far &8 they would go, and the night W&8 80
beautiful that the room was quite light. The door into the nursery W&8 only
partially closed, and I could see the nurse's shadow &8sheleanedover her work,
and I gazed at the shadow of her hand moving up and down with an irritating
regularity until I fell asleep. I seemed to have been sleeping BOrne time
when I woke, and turning over on the other Bide towards the window saw
my mother standing by my bedside crying and wringing her hands. I had not
been awake long enough to remember that she W&8 dead and exclaimed quite
natumlly (for she often came in when I W&8 &81eep) "Why, dear, what's the
matter 1" and then suddenly remembering I acreamed. The nurse spmng up
from the next room, but on the top step flung herself on herknees, and began
to tell her beads and cry. My father at the same moment arrived at the
opposite door, and I heard his sudden exclamation of "Julia, darling!" My
mother turned towards him, and then to me, and wringing her hands again
retreated towards the nUl'8ery and W&8 lost. The nurse afterwards declared
that she distinctly felt 80mething pass her, but she W&8 in such a state of
abject terror that her testimony is quite worthless. My father then ordered
her out of the room, and telling me that I had only been dreaming stayed
until I fell asleep. The next day, however, he told me that he too had seen
the vision, and that he hoped to do 80 again, and that if ever ahe came to see
me again I W&8 not to be frightened, but to tell her that" papa wanted toO
speak to her," which I faithfully promised to do, but I ueed acarcely say that
she never appeared again.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitions OCC1J/'Tilng Boon aJtetr Death. 441
What baa struck me as curious since then is thilt I saw her as she usually
came to see me the last thing at night, dressed in a white flannel dressing-
go~ trimmed with a band of scarlet braid and her long hair loose and flowing.
She was not buried in that dressing-gown, and we had cut oft" all her hair.
Years afterwards, when we were speaking of it, my father told me that she had
alwaya promised to come back after death if such a thing were possible. That
being the case it is curious that, she should have appeared to me. The nurse
from that time forward refused to sit alone in the nursery, and predicted no
end of dreadful things as likely to happen, but when a few weeks afterwards
I sickened for a long and serious illness she was quite satisfied. She was a
Malteee and when we left the island we quite lost sight of her. My father
died just three years ago, so that I am now the only eye-witness left. My
father's second wife baa, however, heard the story from him, and will sign
thiL L.H.
M.S.H.
In reply to further inquiries, Miss H. adds :-
March 11th, 1889.
1. I have no newspaper cutting which baa the notice of my mother's
death in it, or a memorial card. I have a photograph of her tomb, which
bears the date of denth, June 24th, 187', and I enclose you an envelope
containing some of her hair, which my .father fastened up on the morning
of the funeral, and which I found among his papers after his death, and have
never opened.l
2. I was eight years old on the 13th of .Tune, 187'.
3. I have never had any hallucination of any kind, nor am I hi the very
least nervous. My father never had any other hallucination that I know of,
that is, I never'heard him mention any.
'" Neither my father nor nurse ever hinted at such an idea [as that of a
poesible re-appearance of the dead]. My nurse indeed was a Roman Catholic,
nneducated, and very superstitious. But, of course, any mention of my
mother at that time resulted in tears, which both my nurse and father
naturally wished to avoid, so that I am quite lure such an idea was never
auggested to me.
5. I have no contemporary evidence of any kind. My father never
mentioned the story to anyone out of the family, and quite his favourite
motto was: "If no oile would keep a disry, and if every one would burn
their letters, there would be nothing for the lawyers to do."
Lady E. (also known to me) writes as follows:-
MatrCh, 1889.
Mrs. H. was one of my most intinlate friends for many years, and she and
I made a compact that whoever died first should, if possible, appear to the
survivor. When I heard of her death (by telegraph on the very day) I sat
up all night hoping to see her, but saw and heard nothing. Years afterwards
her daughter told me that she and a Maltese nurse and her father had all
three seen my departed friend, in the child's bedroom,-she seeing the figure
first, then the nurse and father rushhlg in at her scream and seemg it also.
1 This packet i8 dated June 30th 1874.
Digitized by Coogle
442 On ApparUiom occ·urr~ng 800n after Death. [Mar. 18,
XV.-The following'case has reached me since the rest of this paper
was in print, and is as yet somewhat incomplete. The initials given
are not the true ones.
It will be seen that the evidential value of the case depends on the
fact that there were at least four independent percipients, as well as
certain phenomena observed by more than one person simultaneously.
The experience of each percipient severally might have been explained
as a merely subjective hallucinai!ion,-the view very naturally taken by
:Miss A., whose account is placed first below. But such a collection of
independent subjective hallucinations, all suggesting the same decedent
(partly by aspect and partly by locality), would be, so far as I know,
an unparalleled group of coincidences. The first appearance was a few
weeks after the death; the others followed at more than a year's
interval. :Mrs. X. died in the town of Z., at 4 p.m., September
18th, 1886.
The first person to observe any unusual appearance was :Miss A.
a cousin of the decedent's), who writes as follows, under date March
4th, 1889:-
I have always put down what I aaw to shaken nerves. and debility
[induced partly by the shock of being present at her cousin's sudden death].
It W8B about six weeks after her death that I woke up with a feeling of
some one being in the room with me, and looking acro88 the room I saw
[Mrs. X.] sitting upon the rocking-chair in the window, in a white dreuing
gown, with ru1Bes round the neck. She had her face turned towards me
and I aaw her distinctly; the fright made me close my eyes, and when I
opened them again she was gone. About a fortnight after that I again woke
at "a.m. with the aame feeling, and there W8B [Mrs. X.] sitting in the
aame chair. I looked hard at her this time, and she rose, croBBed the room
to the aide of the bed, and with one hand (the left) drew back the curtain.
I aat up in bed in terror, and cried out, "Oh-! what do you want'" She
bent down and said quite distinctly, "Three days, only three days." And
then ahe vanished. I rose in terror and lighted the gas and searched all round,
but found nothing. It made me quite ill and hysterical, and, at last, I got
the doctor, but I have never seen her since. Of course, I have heard all the
talli in the family about her being constantly seen lately, but I have never
said a word.
These apparitions-the only ones where the figure has been recog-
nised-occurred in a. house at a little distance from that where Mrs.
X. died. The other manifestations have all been in :Mr. x.'s house.
The next percipient was Mr. X. himself, who writes under date
March 5th, 1889:-
About 12 montha ago [March, 1888] I retired to rest as customary
about 11 to 11.30. I sleep next to the door, and with my son, four years old,
I locked my door, which is my custom to do, and extinguished my light. I
was awakened by an unusual knocking, which appelU"ed not very far distant
from me. I opened my eyes, which were turned towards the door, and to my
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Appariti<ms occurring 800n after Death. 443
IUrpriae saw distinctly a figure which appeared to be a woman in night attire
(I could not distinguish anything like features); it was standing erect close to
the bedside, when I saw it. I appeared to be quite paralysed, and quite cold.
I closed my eyes and opened them several times, seeing the same apparition
in the same position, without any alteration, again closing my eyes and when
opening saw the apparition had vanished. I remained still very cold (which
appeared to me a few minutes) before I felt a glow of warmth, which gave me
strength and confidence to move myself on my back to think over what I had
seen, when my clock struck three. I then got out of bed and lit my gas,
keeping it low (which ever since I always make a practice of doing), andhave
not seen any such apparition since myself, and it was about three months
after this that Miss X. was surpriaed. Again about five months ago I
was awakened out of a sound sleep, by a terrible smashing noise in my room,
which sounded as if the globe had fallen off the gas bracket on:to the marble-
top washstand, and broken to pieces, but as the gas was lit I could see it was
not the globe. My little son sleeping with me was also awakened by the same
noise, and he inquired from me, "What was that noise, papa 1" After a few
minutes' lying in silence to consider what it could be, I got out of bed to try
and discover what had been broken, turned up the gas, but could not discover
anything; the clock showed it was 2.27. I then retired to rest again. The
first thing I inquired from Miss B., who occupied the adjoining room, was
if she heard any noise in the night, or if anything was broken in her room, and
she said no, and I have never yet discovered the cause.
Since this we hear continually footsteps going up and·down-stairs, creaking
stairs, dining-room door opening slowly from closed to half-way, without
any apparitions.
Asked whether the opening of the dining-room door might not be
explained by wind or defective fastening, Mr. X. replies :-
"We have never seen such [opening of the door] before or since, and I
don't think the wind could effect it in such a manner." " The door was
cloeed •close to,' but not fastened, and Miss B. and myself, with a lady
friend, were sitting in the room, and we were attracted by the door creaking,
and we watched it open slowly to about one-third. and it remained so."
There was no light in the room when the figure appeared to Mr. X.
The crashing of glass occurred at 2.27 a.m. on a night in November,
1888. [In this same month Mr. X's elder son, aged ten, who sleeps in
a room alone, said that he "had been visited by a figure all in black,
which disappeared." This, however, may have been a purely subjective
hallucination, as the appearances had probably by this time been much
discussed.]
Mr. X has had no other hallucination of the senses.
The next percipient after Mr. X. was Miss X., sister of the widower.
who gives her account as follows :-
Felmw,ry, 1889.
My sister-in-law died in September 1886, and a week after I went to keep
house for my brother. I occupied the room she died in, and continued to du
so for 13 months, when I returned to my home in Clifton for four months.
4M On .Apparitions occurrilng soon after Death. [Mar. 18,
During my absence my place was filled by a young lady friend. She left
and I returned to my brother'B hoUBe, and had been there three months.
One evening we had been Bitting talking downstairs for a long time when I
wished good night, and went to bed ; sleeping in the room alone. I had jUBt
gone to bed, 12.15 o'clock, when a fe." minutes after I heard a BUdden noille
which made me open my eyes, and I saw Btanding by my bed a figure
enveloped in white; the hand was put forward, as ifattempting to move back
the bed-clothea.
In my fright I BCreBmed and threw out myarm towards it, and said, " Who
is it1 what is it 1" It moved back about half a yard; it was then advancing
again, when my loud BCreBmB broughtmy brother(who was in the nenroom)
to me. Upon his opening the door and entering the room it disappeared,
and I never saw it any more.
My brother then told me he had (during my absence at home) been
awakened one night with a cold feeling, and there was a white figure stand-
ing by his Bide which remained some time, then disappeared, and he was very
much frightened.
Miss X. has never experienced any other hallucination.
The next person to ~ee the figure was Miss B., who succeeded
Miss X. in keeping house for Mr. X. in the spring of 1888. Miss B.'s
experiences were in the summer of 1888, but she has not preserved
accurate dates.
Man:h. 'th. 1889.
I shall feel happy in giving a full account of the apparition I have Been
three times in my bedroom, but am afraid it will not be very well explained.
The first time the figure, dra8Bed in white, came to the bottom of my bed and
stood for a short time; it Beemed to me like a woman, rather tall, butwaa so
covered in this white dra8B that I could not see the head, and during the
time it stayed I never took my eyes off, but at last could not tell where it had
gone; it went quite quickly. The three times it has appeared to me it has
always looked the same, only the last· time it came and stood by my
aide, and although I looked at this figure, and never moved, I could not
explain to anyone what it was like. It is now many weeks since I saw
it. The other night at the usual time, about 12 o'clock, I heard my
door make a noille, but saw nothing. I am not in the least nervous about
these things, and should much like to know what it wanta.
A figure (it Will be perceived) has appeared seven times, to four
different persons, excluding the boy of ten. And most of these
appearances were so long after the death that it would scarcely be
possible to attribute them to the pre-oooupation of recent grief. The
craahing noise may be compared with General Campbell's experiences,
given in the appendix.
XVI.-In another case (where two somewhat similar incidenta
occurred to the same percipient) her experience on one occasion was to a
certain extent shared-though with differences-by a second percipient.
We received the narrative from Miss Lister, whoSe address is
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitions ocC'u/rring BOOn after Death. 445
suppressed only because its publication in the present connection might
lead to difficulties, should she e~er desire to let her house.
March 8th, 1888.
Some time ago a friend of minEl had .the misfortune to 1088 her huaband.1
They had only been married about five years, and she expreaaed great grief
at his lOll, and asked me to,go and reside with her. . . • . I went to
her, and atayed aix montha. One evening, towards the end of that aummer,
I remarked that I would go upstairs and have a bath. "Do," ahe replied,
"but first I wiah you would fetch me that little book I left on the drawing-
room table laat night." I started without a light (having been naturally
fearleu all my life, I am accustomed to go about in the dark), opened the
drawing-room door, and atood for a minute, thinking where she had placed it,
when I aaw, to my amazement, her huaband, aitting by the table; hie elbow
.... resting on the table CI088 to the book. My first thought was to pretend
forgetfulneaa, my aeoond to tell her what I had seen and return without
the book. However, having boasted that I did not know the meaning offear,
I determined to get it, and advanced to the table. He aeemed to be amiling,
as if he knew my thoughts. I picked up the book and took it to her without
laying anything about it; then, going into the bathroom, I lOOn forgot it.
But after being there about 20 minutes I heard my friend go up and open
the drawing-room door. I laughed, and liatened to hear if he wu atill
there, and very lOOn heard her run out of the room, and downstairs about
four at a time, and ring the dining-room bell furiously. One of the maida
came running up. I dreaaed &8 quickly u p088ible and went down to her,
and found her looking very white and trembling. "Whatever is the
matter' " I said. "I have seen my husband," ahe replied. "What
DOIUl8IUI8," I answered. "Oh, but I have," ahe continued,-" at least,
I didn't actually see him, but he apoke twice to me; I ran out of the room,
and he followed and put his cold hand on my shoulder."
Nowthia seeme'to me a very atrange thing, because I had only seen the
gentleman about two or three times, therefore cannot understand his
appearing to me, and I certainly was not thinking of him at the time.
The other apparition was of an old lady whom I had never seen, and I
only diaoovered for whom it W&8 intended by describing her to someone who
knew her. She appeared to me on several occaaioJ18, and I happened to
relate this to the gentleman alluded to, who informed me that it W&8 my
imagination, and added that if it had been a spirit I ahould have been too
frightened to look long enough to describe its appearance. I told him in
reply that I wished someone who had heard the tale would appear to me
after their death and see if they could frighten me ; and I thought of it when
he appeared, and wondered if it had anything to do with my seeing him.
L. A. LDrru.
In reply to inquiries, the narrator says :-
March 13th, 1888.
My reasons for not mentioning the gentleman'a name were two-fold.,
1 I have seen his memorial card. His age was 53, and he died April 11th, 11lSl.-
E. G.
Digitized by Coogle
446 On Appariti01t8 OCCU1Ti,ng 80011, ajter Death. [Mar. 18,
First, because I wrote without the sanction, or, indeed, knowledge, of his
wife; secondly, because a family of the name of-- now reside there,l
and they are a very nervous family ; if they heard about the apparition they
would probably remove. Mr. -- died in April, 18M. His appearance
was not before the beginning of October. I took no notice of the date, but I
bad been with his wife to Lowestoft for six weeks. We went on the 19th of
August, and returned after Michaelmas Day. This occurred soon after our
return.
The old lady's appearance was here. My father purchased the house
in June, 1883, from Mrs. --, whose aunt had died here-being found
dead in bed one day, having died the night before, all alone. The lodger
forced the door, fearing IOmething was the matter; but I was not aware of
this till a long time after. 'l'his appearance occurred on a special flte day at
the "Fisheries"-the proceeds of which were, I believe, intended to build a
church. Some friends of mine were going, and had tried to persuade me to
accompany them, but the house would have been left with no one in it if I
had gone. In the afternoon I had been sewing, and drawing my chair close
to the window overlooking the garden at the back, I intended working &8
long as I could see. I sat for a few minutes looking out, and trying to
imagine how the exhibition looked, and, upon turning, saw the old lady
standing looking at me. "Who can that be 1" I thought (and looked out
again) ; "lOme one must have come here by mistake-possibly a neighbour."
I looked at her again, long enough to take in all the details of her costume.
Again I turned to the window, wondering whether I had left any
of the doora open, and how it was I had not heard her come in.
Then thinking how stupid not to ask her, I got up to put the question-but
she had gone, as noiselessly as she came. I looked all over the hou-m
cupboards, under bedsteads, &c., but not a trace of anyone or anything
could be found.
The servant I had at that time had been a servant at the hOUle before,
I knew; 10 I reaolved (of course without telling her why) to describe the
old lady. I made several casual remarks about her, then I said, "I fancy
I saw her one day, Phrebe, let me describe her. She was rather short, thin,
had brown eyes, a long nose, and wore a black cap with a flower or red bow
at the aide, a black dress, black mittens, and a white neckerchief, edged
with lace, folded cornerways and fastened with a brooch." Phrebe inter-
rupted me several times by saying 'That was her, miss!' and ended by say-
ing she always wore one of those kerchiefs.
About three weeks after, I happened to be again alone, and was hurry-
ing out of the breakfast-room into the room where I had seen her, when,
glancing up the staircase, I beheld myoid lady coming down. This time she
was attired in a lavender dress. I stood at the foot of the stairs, thinking
as she passed I would take hold of her. We seemed to be looking at one
another for 10 minutes, when she went backwards up the stairs like a
human being. I now felt oertain IOmeone was playing me a trick (though I
had heard no lOund); I ran up quickly, but at the tum in the stairs, she
vanished. I searched the house as before, with the same result. When
Phrebe returned, I said, "Did Mias S-- ever wear a lavender-coloured
1 The name and address were givt'n.-E. G.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitions OCC1IIrnng Boon after Death. 447
dress 1" ••Yea, mias, she did; she never wore the lI8Ille twice running." Mid
Phoobe. I have never Been the old lady since. I was enjoying perfect
health at the time.
The next three paragraphs are by Mr. Gurney, who investigated
this case.
.. Miss Lister, with whom I have had a long interview, is, as far as I
can judge, an accurate witness. She is certainly the very opposite of ,a
nervous or superstitious person. She has had no other hallucinations.
She felt some dread at the appearance of Mr. --, but this did not
prevent her from advancing to the table where he seemed to be sitting.
He was dressed in black. The light on this occasion was bright moon-
ligh~ and he was clearly seen. Miss Lister's conversation with him had
been some months before his sudden death, at a time when he was quite
well. Unfortunately, we have 80 far been unable to discover the present
address of Mr. -'s widow, who has married again.
As regards the first appearance of the old lady, Miss Lister holds that
it is quite impossible that it could have been a real person who got back
into the street. The hall door makes a considerable noise in opening
and shutting, which she must have heard; and moreover it could not
be opened from the outside. She was &truck by the absence of foot-
steps. She went in search of the visitor immediately on looking up, and
finding that the figure had disappeared.
Phoobe has married, and Miss Lister does not know her address.
Theniece of Miss --, who was requested to supply a description of
her aunt's personal appearance and dress, has not replied."
Mr. Cowley's case [II., p. 213] and Mr. Jupp's [I., p. 322] belong to
this category. Somewhat similar is a case communicated by the late
.General Campbell, where noises and other phenomena were observed by
several persons, but one percipient only-a child, who had not known
the decedent-witnessed an apparition which others recognised from
her description. His account, which is long and minute, is printed as
an appendix to this paper.
To this category also may perhaps belong a case summarised in a
note to Phama8mB ofthe Living, but which may be given at. length
here.
XVII.-From the Life and C~ of CharTa Mauhewa, by
Mrs. Mathews. (pp. 94, 95.)
At the clOle of the summer a very remarkable instance occurred of a
coincidence of dreams, befalling Mr. Mathews and myself, a circumstance
which I am induced to relate, 8ince it was atte8ted by witne8BeB who
severally and apart were informed of it, before the dreamers had power to
2G
Digitized by Coogle
448 On Apparitio'lUl ocC'Urring soon after Death. [Mar. 18,
communicate with each other, or their mutual friend&.l Mr. Mathews'
account of his impreBBions waa aa follows :-He had gone to rest, after a
very late night's performance at the theatre, finding himself too fatigued to
sit up to his usual hour to read ; but after he waa in bed he discovered-aa
will happen when persons attempt to sleep before their accustomed time---
that to close his eyes waa an impoBBibility. He had no light, nor the means
of getting one, all the family being in bed ; but the night waa not absolutely
dark-it waa only too dark for the purpose of reading; indeed, every object
waa visible. Still he endeavoured to go to sleep, but his eyes refused to
close, and in this state of restl8llllJleBB he remained, when suddenly a alight
rustling, aa if of a haaty "pproach of something, induced him to turn his head
to that side of the bed whence the noise seemed to proceed; and there he
clearly beheld the figure of hislate wife, "in her habit aa she lived," who,
smiling sweetly upon him, put forth her hand aa if to take his, aa she bent
forward. This waa all he could relate; for, in shrinking from the contact
with the figure he beheld, he threw himself out of bed upon the floor, where
(the fall having alarmed his landlord) he waa found in one of those dreadful
fits to which I have alluded. On his recovery from it he related the cause of
the accident, and the whole of the following day he remained extremely ill,
and unable to quit his room. .
There is nothing surprising in all this; for, admitting it not to be a dream.
but one of those cases called nightmare, so frequently experienced (when the
sufferer always believes himself under real infll1encea), it waa not "case to
excite aatonishment. The circumstance which rendered it remarkable was
that at the exact hour when this scene waa taking place at a remote distance,
a vision of the same kind caused me to be discovered precisely in the same
situation. The same sleepleBB effect, the same cause of terror, had occasioned
me to seize the bell-rope, in order to summon the people of the house, which.
giving way at the moment with it I fell, my hand upon the ground. My
impreBBio1.l of this visitation (aa I persisted it waa) were exactly similar to
those of Mr. Mathews. The parties with whom we resided at the time were
perfect strnngers to each other, and living widely apart, and they recounted
severnlly to those about them the extrnordinary dream, for such I must call
it, though my entire belief will never be shaken that I waa aa perfectly awake
aa at this moment. These persons repeated the story to many, before they'
were requested to meet and compare accoUJlts; there could consequently be
no doubt of the facts, and the circumstance became a matter of much
general interest amongst all those who knew Us.
That the scene at the bedaide of the dying woman simultaneoualyrecurred
to the dreamers when awake waa natural enough, and waa aftenrarda con-
fessed. How far the facts which I have here related tended to the serious
result of our continued intimacy I will not determine; but it is certain that
neither of us regarded it RB an impediment at a future period, or a just
reaaon why we should not at lRBt fulfil the desire of her whose wishes were
made known to us at a time when it would have been discreditable to both.
1 Many of our familiar friemla in London will remember with what earnestneM and
solemnity my husband related this account IOJlg after the period of ita 00CUJTe11C(',
when he thought his liHteners were not disp<JBed to lIOOif at such detailll, or be IICleptical
of their truth.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitions occurring sOOn after Death. 449
had we auppoaed ourselves able to comply with it at any future period of our
livea.1
It will be seen that in this case there is assumed to have been &n
important motive for the appearance, and a motive indicating some
continued knowledge on the part of the decedent of the condition of
her friends on earth. It will perhaps have been already observed that
in the best-attested cases evidence of definite motive is rarely found;
our cases presenting in this respect a marked difference from the
traditional type of ghost-story, where the discovery of wills or of other
secrets, and the working out of poetical justice by "supernatural
agency," is wont to be a prominent feature. There is, however, a small
and puzzling group of cases, where the phantom is perceived just
before news of the death reaches the percipient, which may possibly
indicate a continued knowledge on the decedent's part of what is going
on among his friends on earth. Such was the case of Mr. Tandy,
and the case of Mackenzie, cited above by Mr. Gurney. Such was the
I In the American Society for Psychical Reaearch Pro«ediR{P (IV., p. 446), will
be fOUDd a aomewhat similar cue of two apparently synchronou8 .. visions of
collllOlation," repreeenting the same decedent. In this case the two percipients
were the mother and the hUBband of a lady who had been dead five months.
The widower dreamt that his wife came to him in his bedroom-a dream so
vivid that he wrote in the moming to describe its incidents to his mother·in·
law. A letter from '-' CI'OIIIIed his letter (80 we are told, both letters having
unfort1Ul&tely been destroyed), in which she on her part recoUDted a .. clair·
voyant vision" in which she had entered her 8On-in-law's room, and witnesaed
a visit to him from his deceased wife. .. After lying down to rest," writes Mrs.
Crans, .. I remember feeling a drifting aensation, of seeming almoat as if I was
going out of the body_ My eyes were clOll6d ; lOOn I realised that I W&II, or seemed .
to be, going fast somewhere. All seemed dark to me ; suddenly I realised that I was
in a room; then I saw Charlie lying in a bed asleep; then I took a look at the furni-
ture of the room, and distinctly saw every article-even to a chair at the head of the
bed, which had one of the pieoea broken in the hack. In a moment the door opened
and my spirit-daughter Allie came into the room and stooped down and kissed
Charlie. He seemed to at once realise her presence, and tried to hold her, but she
passed right out of the room about like a feather blown by the wind; and then, aftel
a moment, she came hack again [several further incidents are here deHCribed). Then I
thought I would open my eyes, and with difficulty I gotmyeyes open. Theyseemed 80
heavy to me, but when I succeeded in opening them I received a sudden shock, such &II
if I had fal,len from the ceiling to the floor. It frightened and woke up both Mrs. B.
and my daughter, [but Mrs. B. has been foat sight of, and the daughter was a child
at the time], who &liked what was the matter. Of counse I told them my experience,
and the following Sunday I wrote, as was always my custom, to my son-in-law,
Charlie, [who remembers the letter, but baa destroyed it], telling him of all my
experience, describing the room &II I saw it furnished. .[This letter was crossed by one
from the 8On-in-law, Mr. C. A. Kemochan, written on the same moming &8 Mrs.
Crans' letter, and describing a ,-ision ot his late wife on the same Friday night, with
details which the two correspondents now believe to have beeu identical. Mrs. Crans
gives a number of details of the vision, and Mr. Kernochan writes to Mr. Hodgson,
July 4th, 1888, .. The facti> written you this day by Mrs. Crans in regard to a letter
written to me one Sunday morning in the year 1880, and one writteu by me on the
same date to her, are correct in every particular."]
202
Digitized by Coogle
450 On Appt'1ritions occurring BOon after Death. [Mar. 18.
case of Mrs. Haly (cited Proceedings, Vol. III., p. 91), where a
very long coffin and IL phantasmal figure of an absent nephew were seen
an hour or two before the percipient received a letter from Australia.
announcing her nephew's death.
XVIII.-The next case-I have given the percipients the name of
Adie-is a curiously complicated one; but its evidential value rests
mainly on the similarity between a recognised phantom seen by a
mourner (and therefore not in itself evidential) and an unrecognisable
appearance observed by a near relation, also aware of the death.
This latter phenomenon-a segment of illumination in a room other-
wise dark, and closed against light-is, I think, unique in our collec-
tion. Retinal hyperresthesia will sometimes make a room look light
for a moment or two when the eyes are first opened, but the limitation
of area seems tp make this explanation improbable here.
Miss C. A. writes:-
JUly 12th, 1888.
About two months before the death of my dear father, which occurred on
December 10th, 1887, one night about from 12 to 1 a.m., when I was in
bed in a perfectly waking condition, he came to my bedside, and led me
right through the cemetery at Kensal Green, stopping at the spot where his
grave was afterwards made.
He was very ill at that time and in a helpleBB condition-so far as his
ability to walk up three flighta of stairs to my room was concerned. I
had at that time never been in that cemetery, but when I went there after
his interment the scene was perfectly familiar to me.
He led me belond his grave to a large iron gate, but my recollection of
this part is confused. I there lost sight of him.
In a later letter Miss C. A. adds :-
It was just like a panorama. I cannot say if my eyes were closed or open.
Again, a day or two before his death, somewhere between the 4th and
the 10th of December (tho day of his decease), when he was lying in an
unconscious state in " room on the ground floor, and I sleeping on the second
floor, I was awoke suddenly by seeing a bright light in my bedroom-the
whole room was flooded with a radisnce quite indescribable-and my father
was standing by my bedside, an etherealised semi-transparent figure. but yet
his voice and his aspect were normal. His voice seemed a far-off sound, and
yet it was his same voice as in life. All he said was, "Take care of mother."
He then disappeared, floating in the air as it were, and the light also
vanished.
About a week afterwards, that is to say, between the 12th and the 17th of
December, the same apparition came to me again, and repeated the same
words. An aunt, to whom I related these three experiences, suggested to
me that poBBibly something was troubling his spirit, and I then promised her
that should my dear father visit me again I would answer him. This occurred
a short time afterwards. On this, the fourth, occasion he repeated the _mt'
igitized by Goog
1889.] On Apparitions occ'IJ/mng soon. after Death. 451
wonla, and I replied, .. Yea, father." He then added, .. I am in perfect
peace."
Apparently he was aatiafied with this my &IlIIurance. Since that time I
have neither seen nor heard any more.
I have never before or since had any such experience.
(Signed) C.A.
Mrs. Adie writes :-
March,l889.
Towards the middle of the month of October, 1887 [since fixed by
letters of that year as Sunday, October 23rd, 1887], in fact, as nearly as I can
recall, about the time when C.'s father first appeared to her in a Ipiritualiaed
form, I had a singular and moat vivid impreaaion that the post would bring
me bad news. We were then in Switzerland. I could daily from my window,
at 11.20 a.m. to a moment, see the train arrive which brought our Engliah
letters. These were taken to the post-office close by and 8Orted; and about
20 minutes after the train came in my letters (if any) were placed upon my
table. On Sunday mornings the Engliah Church service began at 10.30, 80
that by 11.40 the chaplain was well advanced in his'sermon. On that one
particular Sunday it was, as nearly as I can tell, exactly at that
moment of time I suddenly felt much distreaaed and mentally disturbed,
feeling convinced that bad news was awaiting me on my return to the hotel.
I had to put considersble force upon myself to refrsin from rising from my
seat and leaving the church.
My presentiment was only too true ; on my writing-table I found a moat
agonisingletter fromT. (C.'s elder sister) telling me that their father had had a
moat alarming attack of illneaa (this was the first of the three seizures which
resulted in his decease on December 10th). One point I would especially
notice-apparently this letter conveyed no impression to my mind 80 long as
it was in the train or at the post-office, but took effect upon me 80 lOOn as
it was put upon my writing-table-came within my surroundings, as it were.
We retumed to England on December lat. After C.'I father's cieath-
during the nightof December 12th-13th-I was sleeping in a small back room
(.In the ground door ofa lodging in London, a room which had only one window,
closed by shutters and a thick curtain. The gas in the paaaage was put out
when I went to bed, 80 that,after I had extinguished my candle,the room was
shrouded in impenetrable darkneaa-darkneaa 'that could be felt. About
3 a.m. on the moming of the 13th I awoke en lItW8aut, as the French expres-
sion has it (that is to aay, I was wide awake, not in a half dreamy condition),
to see the room up to the ceiling, for about the width of my bed, and ex-
tending to the fireplace opposite, dooded with a pale golden radiance, an
unearthly ligh~uite unlike any we are acquainted with; it seemed to
come from behind the bed ; sO bright was it that I could distinctly see the
design on the wall-paper opposite me, and over the fireplace. This paper
was a very pale French grey, of two tints, outlined here and there with a
thin line of colour. This effect lasted, as nearly as I can tell, about five
minutes, during which I opened and shut my eyes several times, clasped and
unclaaped my handa, and hit myself to be certain that I was not dreaming.
When the light went I was in total darkneaa as before.
That Mml! day I confided the circumstance to T. (Clara's lister),
Digitized by Coogle
452 On Apparitiom occ'Urrilng 800'1/. after Death. [Mar. 18.
begging her not to tell her about it, Bince C. W&B feeling her father'B death
must acutely; but when a day or two later C. told me of hiB three
appearancea to her, and of thiB aame remarkable golden light which
accompanied them, I related to her what I had myaelf Been,
expreaaing my regret that awe or &BtoniBhment had prevented me from
speaking or making BOme Bign; though, unlike herseH, I had Been no shadowy
form approach me. The t.hought then occurred to me that there might be
BOmething regarding which the dece&&ed wished to be 8&tiBfied-BOmething
which prevented hiB spirit from obtaining perfect rest, and I suggested to
her that should thiB experience be repeated to either of us we should anawer
him. The result iB Btated in C.'s account.
My own impreaaion iB that hiB Bpirit tried to communicate wit.h me,but in
my great amazement at the viBion I W&B unable to receive hiB me8ll8ge.
C. W&B prepared.1
Later on-viz., . in a letter, dated February 27th, 1888, C., when
writing to me, 8&yB: .. When I told you in my last letter, dear auntie, that
I had spoken, it was from your advice, for you told me to do BO. Now, I
must try and explain to you just what happened. It was about" o'clock in the
morning, or even earlier. A bright light Buddenly came into my room-not
a light like from a fire or a candle, but a glow of golden li9ht. Then I 8&W
a form, quite white, bend over me, and in my darling father'B voice I heard
these worda: •Take care of mother-I am in perfect peace. ' I aaid: 'Yef<.
father.' And then tho light by degrees di8&ppeared. Since thiB, I have not
seen or heard anyt.hing more, and I have a feeling that I Bhall never again, as
I feel Bure that all he wanted to 8&y he h&B 8&id, and iB at reat Binee I aDBwered
him. What you tell me &B having happened to you on the night of December
12th iB, indeed, p&BBing strange. I should BO like to know what W&B meant.
to tell you. Have you any idea 1 It iB strange that both you and I should
see t.he 8&me light. You see I told you firat, BO it could not have been &
dream, &B I might poBBibly have fancied if you had told of your Btrange
light (for I do BOmetimea dream of t.hings which I hear and read of).
If anything Bhould happen again I will write it down, aDd let you know at.
once; but, BOmehow, I feel I Bhall' not."
In further letters Mrs. Adie Sll.Ys :-
April 1st, 1889.
I must now add to my lltatement in my l&Bt (BO positively put), as to only
a segment of my room being illumined, what I then omit.ted, viz., that
1 CuriO\l8ly enough, Hi'll. Adie ha.a had another experience connected with the
l&Dle family-an experience recalling Mr. Goodall'8 in type (see Cue XIX.• below).
"Probably, in 1862," she writes, "I WaH 8taying with my mother in a lodging in
London. One morning, about 3 a.m. (I looked at the clock directly aftel"Wll.nU).
I found myself suddenly wide awake, and heard a voice 8&y. 'One of your name is
dead.• My husband was away-ataying with his parents in the country; you lD&y
ilD&gine my anxiety for the post to arrive. I went many timee into my little sitting-
room, next door to my bedroom, hoping to find a letter. When the post did arri,·E' it
brought me one from my husband, 8&ying that a little nephew of his had died quite
euddenly of croup, when on the march in India. The father WAIl a military man-
in fact, C.'8 father al80. We had only heard of this child lUI a fine, healthy boy."
I give this case only in a note, for it is remote, and depends on an uncorroborated
memory.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On ..4pparitWna occurring 8OO'n ajrer Death. 453
wbat made me 80 certain of this fact waa-that neither the white mullin-
covered dreaaing-table on my right hand, nor the wardrobe standing against
the wall on my left hand, were visible to me on that occasion I No; when
I saw this luminosity I had heard nothing of my niece's experiences up to
that date.
I have occupied the same room again in the interval whioh has since
elapeed, and found that the room was so obeoure that even in winter day-
light (no fog) when lying on the bed I could not make out the design on the
wall-paper oppoaite me, although on the oooasion I there mention every
little detail of form and colour was sharply defined. .
My husband had to pass through my room to get to his, and when he left
our sitting-room the whole house was in bed. It was his business to
extinguish the feeble little gaa-jet whioh was left burning. Had he forgotten
to do this, the light from the burner could not have resembled what I saw.
My niece baa more than onoe 888Ured me positively "thatshe at no other time
haa ever had any halluoination of the senses." I cannot recall ever having
had any halluobiationa whioh did not mean anything, or rather whioh have
not come true,- if I except [a vision whioh mayor may not have corresponded
to reality, but which cannot at present be tested.]
XIX.-In our next case the fonn which the impression took wa.s an
auditory one,-mixed, perhaJ>1!, with an impulse to utterance. The
following narrative wa.s communicated by Mr. Edward A. Goodall,
of the Royal Society of Painters in Water Colours, London.
May, 1888.
At Midsummer, 1869, I left London for Naples. The heat being
exoeaaive, people were leaving for Iaohla, and I thought it beat to go there
myself.
Oroaaing by steamer, I slept one night at Caaamiooiola, on the ooaat, and
walked next morning into the town of Iaohia.
Liking the hotel there better than my quarters of the previous night, I
fetched my small amount of luggage by help of a man, who returned with me
on foot beside an animal which I rod6-()ne of the fine, sure-footed, big
donkeys of the country. Arrived at the hotel, and while sitting perfeot1y
still in my saddle talking to the landlady, the donkey went down upon his
knees as if he had been shot or struok by lightning, throwing me over hia
head upon the lava pavement.
In endeavouring to save myself my right hand was badly injured. It
lOOn became much swollen and very painful. A Neapolitan doctor on the
spot said no bones were broken, but perfect rest would be needful, with my
arm in a sling.
Sketching, of course, was impossible, and with neither books, newspapers,
nor letters I felt my inactivity keenly.
It must have been on my third or fourth night, and about the middle of
it, when I awoke, as it seemed, at the BOund of my own voice, saying: "I
know I have 10llt my dearest little May." Another voice, whioh I in no way
reoogniaed, answered: "No, not May, but your ymmgest bay." I
The distinctness and solemnity of the voice made suoh a distressing
Digitized byCoogle
40540 On Apparitions OCCll/N";''nf/ BOOn afor Death. [Mar. 18,
imprel8ion upon me that I slept no more. I got up at daybreak, and went
out, noticing for the first time telegraph-poles and WireL
Without delay I communicated with the postmaster at Naples, and by
next boat received two letters from home. I opened them aooording to dates
outside. The first told me that my youngest boy was taken Buddenly ill ; the
lI6Oond, that he was dead.
Neither on hiB aooount nor on that of any of my family had I any cause
for uneaain688. Ail were quite well on my taking leave of them 80 lately.
My impreuion ever Bince has been that the time of the death coincided u
nearly as we could judge with the time!Jf my aooident.1
In writing to Mrs. Goodall, I called the incident of the voice a dream, as
1688 likely perhaps to disturb her than the detailB which I gave on reaching
home, and which I have now repeated.
My letters happen to have been preBerved.
I have never had any hallucination of any kind, nor am I in the habit of
talking in my Bleep. I do remember once waking with lOme worda of mere
nonsense upon my lipB, but the experience of the voice speaking to me was
abeolutely unique. EDWARD A. CffioDALL.
Extracts from letters to Mrs. E. A. Goodall from Ischia:-
Wednuday, August 11th, 1869.
The postman brought me two letters containing ead neWB indeed. Poor
little Porcy! I dre&mt lOme nights since the poor little fellow wu taken
from us.•••
1 Mr. Goodall thinks tb,at the mule's sudden fall-otherwiae inexplicable-may
have been due to terror at some apparition of the dying child. When this paper ....
read to the Society for Psychical Research. Mr. Pearsall Smith gave the following
apparently parallel instance ;-
Mr. R. Pearsall Smith said that among the illustrations of the claim that
animals have a perception of these extraordinary alleged apparitions after death,
might be mentioned one occurring to a neighbour of his own, a prominent bania·
ter at Philadelphia. He had parted, under painful circumstances of controversy,
with a friend who had later gone to Italy for his health. Afterwards, while oamping
out in the wilds of the Adirondacks, one day his horse became excited and refused to
advance when urged. While engaged in the contest with the horae, the barrister aaw
before him the apparition of his friend with blood pouring from his mouth, and in au
interval ofthe effusion he heard him say, • I ,\aloe fIOtAing agalMt you.' Soon after.
wards he heard that his friend had at that time died during a discharge of blood from
the lungs. Mr. Pearsall Smith was prevented from procuring a sta£ement directly
from the barrister, by the fact that, after relating it to his friends, the recollection of
the incident had become so painful to him that he declined to converse again on the
subject. He added that it may be easily conceived that the barrister, under painful
recollections of the parting interview with his friend, and with the knowledge of his
ill-health, might picture his friend forgiving any supposed injury, and also his dying
scene. The extraordinary features are the coincidence of time and manner between
the viBion and the death, with the added oirculD8tance of the alarm of the borae
previous to the apparition.
We have an odd case where a horse, standing in a carriage at the door of a bonae
where a lady was dying, IICn4mM at the moment of death. But see Mrs. Sidgwick's
remarks on the supposed .. psychical" terrors of hol'lle8. (ProcMiing" Vol. UI., p_ 86_)
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Appariticms occurring 800n after Death. 455
.Auguat 14th.
I did not tell you, dear, the particulars of my dream about poor little Percy.
I had been for several days very fidgety and wretched at getting no
letters from home, and had gone to bed in worse spirits than usual, and in
my dream I fancied I said: "I have l08t my dearest little May." A strange
voice seemed to say: "No, not May, but your youngest boy," not mentioning
bis name." . . . .
Mr. Goodall has given me verbally a concordant account of the
affair, and several members of his family, who were present at our
interview, recollected the strong impression made on him and them at
the time.
In a ca.ae already published, (Proceedings III., p. 90), Mr. Wambey
Marti the friend's voice as though in colloquy with his own thought.
He was planning a congratulatory letter to a friend, when the words
" What! write to a dead man 1 write to a dead man 7" sounded clearly
in his ears. The friend had been dead for some days. Here also
we may add a ca.ae where a message seemed to be given by the decedent's
voice in a dream.
xx.-From Mr. George King, of 12, Sunderland-terrace, West-
bourne Park, W. :-
NOfJIlmber 8th, 1885.
The following is a brief account pf an occurrence that took place 11 years
ago. I repeat the facts exactly as they happened, and make no attempt at
comment or explanation. It is necessary to give a few worda of prefatory
narrative.
My brother D., a few years my junior, was a handsome, powerful young
man, 21 years of age at the time of his death, and he was an unusually
vigorous swimmer. He had greatly distinguished himself at school and
college, and he was !lnthusiaatically devoted to scientific pursuits. On
leaving the Scottish University where he had studied, he adopted tele-
graphic engineering for a profeuion, and as all his tastea were in that
direction his progreBB was rapid. His more especial department was the
construction and laying of deep sea cables. and when only 20 years of age he
was appointed to the responsible poet of superintendent of the scientific
department in laying a cable for the Brazilia;n Government. In the per-
formance of his duties on the stormy Atlantic coast of South America he
had to encounter many perils; and finally the steamer G01'7Ib&, on which he
was, was totally wrecked, and the cable was lost. All lives were saved,
though for many hours the danger had been extreme. My brother returned
immediately by mail to London, and throughout the summer months of 1874
was engaged in superintending the manufacture of fresh cable to replace that
which had become l08t in the G01'7Ib&. During these few months D. and I had
much aff'ectionate intercourse, and the bonda between us (he was my only
brother) were drawn even closer than before.
In November, 1874, the cable was finished and shipped on board the
La Plata, a magnificent steamship, carrying with her every appliance that
eould be required to render the expedition safe. By the wreck of the
Digitized by Coogle
4156 On Apparit·Wns occurring 80011, after Death. [Mar. 18.
(}O'T'n03 much valuable time had been lost, and for six months a huge sum
of capital had been lying idle. Only a small section of cable was required to
complete the line, and the contractors, Siemens Brothers, spared no expense
to make certain of succeaa on the second attempt. While, therefore, we
might fear for my brother the unhealthy climate of BOme partsof the coast of
Brazil, we had no anxiety as regards the perils of the sea.
I bid D. farewell on Wednesday, November 2nd, 1874. I had a lecture
to deliver that afternoon, and I could not go to see him off, and we parted at
the door of my office. He was the picture of health and strength, and we
spoke cheerfully of meeting again in a few months' time, when his work
should be completed. The next morning I had a line from him, written at
the docks, and on Saturday a happy little letter, which was posted by the
pilot when he landed at the Isle of Wight. Everything tended to reaaaure
me, and I had no senae of impending calamity.
Next Wednesday evening, December 2nd, I attended a converaazione a.t
King's College, given by Sir W. Thomson, President of the Society of
Telegraphic Engineers, and, taking myself a keen interest in science, my
mind was intensely occupied with all that I saw and heard. While examining
the beautiful instruments exhibitod, I often wished that my brother had been
there to explain them to me, and the many friends that I met spoke to me of
him. He was thus pleasantly in my thoughts, but my mind was not brooding
or concentrated on him. On the contrary, it was disturbed by the multitude
of objects, and only casual glances were cast towards D. Rather excited, I
went home to my solitary chambers, and retired to bed shortly after mid-
night. I was soon asleep, but how long I remained so I know not. So far
as recollection goes, I had not been dreaming, but suddenly I found myself
in the midst of a brilliant aaaembly, such as that I had recently left at King's
College. I stood in ovening dreaa on the steps at the entrance to a great and
crowded hall. I was looking towards the garden, brightly lighted with &
multitude of lamps. Illuminated fountains were playing ill front of me, and
groups of gentlemen and ladies sauntered up and down the paths. The cool
night air was blowing on my face, and I had a delicious feeling of pleasure
and peace. Two gentlemen, strangers to me, stood talking on the gravel a.
few paces from me. I heard their voices, and could almost catch their conver-
sation. Suddenly my brother st.epped out from behind them, and advanced
towards me. He was in evening dreaa, like all the rest, and was the very
image of buoyant health. I was much surprised to see him, and, going
forward to meet him, I said: "Hallo! D., how are you here 1" He shook
me warmly by the hand, and replied: "Did you not know I have been
wrecked again1" At thoso words a doadly faintneaa came over me. I seemed
to swim away and sink to tho ground. After momentary unconsciousness
I awoke, and found mysolf in Illy bed. I was in a cold perspiration, and had
paroxysms of trembling, which would not be controlled. I argued with
myself on the absurdity of getting into a panic over a dream, but all to Ill'
purpose, and for long I could not sleep. Towards morning I again alumbered.
and the fear paaaed off from me. On Thursday, December 3rd, I was to
breakfast with a friend, at his hotel, before he started for Scotland, and I
went to Euston by tho Metropolitan Railway. The bookstalls on my side of
the station were not yet opened, but acroaa the line the boys were arranging
the papers, and they spread. out the placard of the Daily Telegraph. In large
1889.] On Apparitiom occurring BOOn after JJeath. 457
letters on it were the worda: "Terrible cUaaater at II8&. LoIIII of a steamship
and 60 lives." I felt &I if iced water had been poured over me, and the
dread of the night before returned; but my train glided up to the platform,
and I could not get a paper. The gentleman next me in the carriage W&l
reading the Daily Telegraph, and I looked over his Bhoulder, and 8&W, under
a I18D8&tional heading, the worda: .. By the arrival in the Thamea, yeaterday,
of the Antenor, &c."; but the motion of the train prevented me from
reading properly, and I thought the Bentence ran: "By the arrival of the
Thamea, news of the At.tellor, &c., &c." I therefore gathered that the
AnU1107' had been lost. On arriving at my deatination I got the Times,
and looked it oyer from the beginning to the end, but it contained no mention
of the Bhipwreck. Later on I went to).l1y office and began my work, but
preaently one of the m8888ngera, with a Btrange look in his face, came to me
and &aid: "Is it true, air, that your brother has been lost in J;he La Plata' ..
I atarted up and ran to the Marine Company next door, and there the
very worst fears were confirmed. The La Plata foundered in the Bay of
Biscay at about noon on Sunday, November 24th, 1874, after being expoaed
for only a few houra to a terrific gale. No 8&tiBfactory reason for the
catastrophe W&l ever forthcoming. Why a well·found and powerful Bteamer
Bhould have gone down in open aea, when a common rowing boat Bhould
have survived, is a mYBtery which remaina unaolved. The event created a
great Benaation at the time, and a long Board of Trade inquiry W&l held, but
the riddle WRIt never anawered.
I 8&W BOme of the Burvivora of the crew, and learned from them about my
brother. Although the weather had been rough, danger W&l not feared
until Sunday morning, when water began to rush into the' engine-room, and
quickly put out the fireB. My brother toiled with the 8&ilora to get Bteam up
in the donkey engine on deck BO &I to work the pumpB, and he nobly en-
couraged the men. This, however, proved uaeleB8, and when the boat pushed
oft" from the ship, the last Been of my brother W&l that he .W&l helping to
launch the life-raft.
The La Plata. foundered at about noon on Sunday, November 29th, and
poiIIIibly D. perished then and there. But he may have poBBibly survived for
I8veml days; He W&I of BtrOng conBtitution; he W&l a powerful Bwimmer ;
he had on an air-belt, and he W&l beside the life-raft when the ship went
down. On December 2nd, two 8&ilora were picked up alive. Half-immersed
in the ice-cold water, they had clung to the life-raft ~nd drifted about the
Atlantic for three whole days. I add this last note to show that it is just
pouible that I had the vision of my brother near the morning of his death,
although more probably he died three days before.
In conclusion I must 8&y that I Bpeak of a "vision" becauae the whole
of my BenaationB while the scene W&l paaaing before me, and Bubsequently,
were quite dift"erent from those that accompany an ordinary dream. Alao I
can see everything now in my mind &I clearly ~ at the moment when I
awoke, whereas with me even the most vivid dreams alwaYB gradually fade
away.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. King says :-
N mJtJmbeT 15th, 1885.
The vision of my brother W&l quite unique. I never before or since had
Digitized by Coogle
I
/
458 On .Apparitions OCC'U1'1";l''1} 800n afUr Death. [Mar. 18,
a vision of a ptll'8On whom I believed to be in the fleah, and never bad an
external event Buch as the Bhipwreck thUB conveyed to me. Much leu have
I ever had a vision which was falamed by the event. Alao never before or
Bince have I had aenaationB Bimilar to thoae that accompanied the viaiOD of
my brother.
GEORGB KINo.
The first announcement of the wreck of t~e La Plata appeared in the
Daily Telegraph, December 3rd. 1874, and in the aame iIBue an account
appears of a converaazione given the night before at King'B College, Strand,
by Sir Wm. Thomaon, President of the Society of Telegraph Engineers.
On December 10th, in the aame paper, a telegram is printed giving an
account of the reacue of the boatswain and qUBrtermaster of the La Plata,
who were found clinging to BOrne wreckage by a Dutch cutter. It ia Btated
that the Bteamer foundered on November 29th, and that thoae two men clung
to the wreckage until picked up at 10 a.m. on December 2nd.
The La Plata left Graveaend for Rio Janeiro on November 26th, 1874,and
foundered in the Bay of Biacay, as we learn from the Marine Department,
Board of Trade, on the 29th. The Burvivors were pioked up by the Gore
Lock, and tranaferred to the homeward-bound lB. Afl.tenor, which arrived
with them and the first neWB in the Thamea on December 2nd.1
1 1 may give here in a note the following narrative, which Willi amongst l!olr_
Gurney's papel"ll, though, l1li the coincidence depends only on a dream, without details,
he had not included it in his aelected CII88II.
From Lady Sudeley, Toddington, Winchcombe, Cheltenham.
Ja:nUG77I 6th, 1887.
" For about four years before my marriage C. W. WIllI a friend of mine, though
never a very intimate one. 1 married early, and a few years afterwards she became
a C1ewer Sister. Though it W&8 always a pleasure to us to be together, we 'Vf!frY
rarely met during the fourteen and a half years that elapsed between my JIlIIl'riap
and her death. 1 think I only saw her once in her sister's dreea. Iu July.
1882, I heard she W&8 ill, but 1 had many things to occupy me just then, and
she WIllI never in my thoughts. On the night of September 27th, 1882, I dreamt that
ahe stood by my bedside in her sister's dress, and said, "Wby do you never come to_
me? .. 1 answered, .. You are such a way off." She replied, " 1 am much nearer to
you than you think." This dream made such an impreuion on me that I told myeldest
girl in the moming, and wrote the same day to C. W.'s sister to inquire about her. I
enclose the reply. 1 ought perhape to mention that I did not in the l8118t share her
religious opinions, and the only link between us WIllI the friendship of our girlhood.
AnA SUDln.aT.»
With this account Lady Sudeley enclosed a letter from her friend (dated Sep-
tember 30th, Middleton Lodge, Boumemouth), beginning :-"1 got your letter
yesterday afternoon, and wonder if now you have htlArd that C. _ taken
from us lut Monday (25th). It 888ms 80 strange your dreaming of her
Wedneaday night." The letter proceeds to say that the death "came 80 very qnickly
and unexpectedly that they were unable to write, and we only had a telegram wbeu
all WIllI over," though C. W. WIllI known to be ill. Mi. Hanbury Tracy (lAdy
Rudeley's eldest daughter) told me [E.G.] (December 17th, 1887) that she perfectly
remembers her mother describing the dream to her on the moming after it occurred.
I remember my mother telling me, when she awoke in the moming, that she bad
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitions occ'U/rri-ng BOOn after Death.
And here, perhaps, is the fittest place to mention the appearance of
Mrs. Webley, (printed Proceedings III., p. 92), where it seems as though
the percipient's own nearness to death had brought her into some closer
relation with a friend who some days before had passed away.l
~ dreaming so much about her friend Mi88 W., she felt she must write and inquire
how she was. EVA B. TRACY."
Fefw1uJ,ry 18th, 1887.
Another IlOIJlewhat similar case may be added, also from Mr. Gurney's papers.
. Ma1l141h. 11!88•
.. A somewhat curious case of thought·travelling occurred to me a few weeks since.
- Early one morning I seemed to be preeent amongst a. large party sorting quantities of
pure white flowers, wbil8t near to me, shadowy, yet quite distinct, a tall young man
watched ns. At once I recognised him as an old friend, though much altered. He
_ only a boy when I last saw him, ten years ago.
The same moming I told some members of my family that H.S.· W&!1 dead; and
that I had been arranging flowers for his funeral.
The next week I heard from his sister that H.S. was dead, and was buried the day
that I had seen him. I had heard six weeks before that he had returned from India,
and they feared his lungs were affected.
I mention this case as it is very recent, and also one of my SOIlll, and my sister·in·
Jaw, who was staying with me at the time, can corroborate my Atatement.
M.C.B.
I enclose a letter from my son. Another son also distinctly remembers the
incident, though none of us can give the exact date. The letter announcing the death
and funeral was read at the breakf..t table, and we all commented on the CUriOU8-
coincidence." .
June 9th, 1888•
.. DKAB SJR,-I quite remember my mother one moming at breakfast mentioning
a dream she had had about lLS., and two or three days after receiving news of his
death, when we found that the funeral took place on the day of the dream.
C.B.B."
From Mrs. Alexander Thompson (POI!t Office, Sidcup, Kent).
June 15th., 1888•
.. I remember during my stay at B-- in March, 1888, M. C. B. saying at break-
fM1; she had had a IMt of dream. I do not recollectall the particulars, but they
all aJ>P8&red very vivid to her in this dream. She was in a room with a great quantity
of white flowers, which she was tying in bunches, when she saw a young friend of hers,
H. 8., but only as a ahadowy figure, in the room. She said she was afraid he was
dead. A few days later a letter came telling her of his death; and comparing dates
1Il. C. B. found her dream had occurred on the day of the funeral of H. S.
M.T."
1 Miss Cobbe has collected two or three cases of this type in a little work entitled
2'Iu Peal.: ojDamn.
I add two instances. The first, from a clergyman, who does not wish his name
published, was received through the Rev. C. J. Taylor, a member of the Society for
Psychical Research.
Nrwemher 2fltl, 1885.
II On November 2nd and 3rd, 1870, I 1000t my two eldest boys, David Edward and
Harry, in ecarlet fever, they being then three and four years old respectively.
Harry died at Abbot's Langley on November 2nd, 14 miles from my vicarage at
Apsley; David the following day at Apsley. About an hour before the death of this
latter child. he sat up in bed, and pointing to the bottom of the bed. said distinctly,
•There is little Harry calling to me.' It has been said that the child said, •Be has
* The name and addl'88ll ha.,e been given In confidence.
Digitized by Coogle
460 On Apparitiom occ'UrriIng BOOn afUr Death. [Mar. 18,
XXI.-The following case is from a lady who does not at present
wish her name to be published. She hopes to revisit the convent, and
to obtain corrobora.tive evidence. Her recollection, however, is very
distinct, and she adds :-
"You may safely vouch for the truth to the letter of the statement. I
could never in my life forget one incident of this visitation."
Febnmry, 1889.
During my visit to the convent at St. Quay, Pontrieux (August, 1882)
with my two daughters and son, the good sisters had only one good room for·
me and my two girls. It wa.a the room set apart for the Bishop of St. Brieue
when he visited the convent, and wa.a in the priest's house. On the moming
after our arrival I did not go out with my children, but being very tired I lay
down on a little beq. The SUD wa.a shining, and it wa.a very hot, but before
I lay down I placed a chair against the bedroom door, a.a there wa.a only &
latch on the door, and no bolt or key. I went to sleep only for & few
minutes, and wa.a suddenly awakened by a soft touch on my cheat. On
opening my eyes, I saw a venerable old man, with something of a whiteand
black dress on, kneeling by the side of the bed on which I lay, with hands
clasped in prayer, and looking up to the wall over the bed. I looked at him
silently, and he rose, and when going to the door he raised his two banda and
said" Te Wni" [je te Woo 1] three times quitedistinct1y, and I lost him. I got
up instantly and went to the door, thinking he wa.a some old priest who had
come to pray before the crucifix which I then saw for the first time on the
wall over the bed ; but to my surprise I found the ~oor shut, and the chair
a crown on his head,' but I do not remember this myself; but I was BO overcome with
grief and wearin888 from long watching that I may have let it escape me. But of the
truth of this first fact I am sure, and it was heard alBO by the nurse.
Signed X. z., Vicar of H."
In lette1'8 and conversation with Mr. Podmore, Mr. Taylor adds the following
details :-
"Mr. Z. tells me that care was taken to keep David from knowing that Hany
was dead, and that he feels sure that David did not know it. Mr. Z. was himself
present, and heard what the boy said. The boy was not delirious at the time.
CHARLES TATLOR."
The next case was received from Miss Ogle, through the Rev. J. A. Macdonald,
who has for BOme yea1'8 been our careful helper in the collection of evidence.
Manchester, Nowmber 9th. l884.
.. My brother, John Aikin Ogle, died at Leeds, July 17th. 1879. About an hoar
before he expired he saw his brother, who had died about 16 yeai'll before, and looking
up with fixed interest, said, 'Joe! Joe!' and immediately after exclaimed with
ardent surprise, •Gooll{e Hanley!' My mother, who had come from Melbourne, a
distance of about 40 miles, where GOOIl{e Hauley resided, was astonished at this, and
said, 'How strange he should see George Hanley. He died only 10days~ !' Then,
turning to my sister-in-law, asked if anybody had told John ofGeorgIl Hanley'. death.
She said, 'No one,' and my mother was the only person present who was aware of the
fact. I was present and witnessed this. HARIlIKT H. OaLlL"
In answer to inquiries, Miss Ogle states:-
",T. A. Ogle was neither delirious nor unconsciot\8 when he uttered the words no-
corded. Geoll{e Hauley was an acquaintance of ,John A. Ogle, not a particularly
familiar friend. The death of Hanley WI¥! not mentioned in his hearing."
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitions occurring soon after Death. 461
before it, as I had placed it ocfore I lay down. The old sister who waited on
us had her room close to ours ; 80 I called her and told her that an old priest
had come into my room to pray before the crucifix. The old nun Mid that
there W&8 not a man on all tho premises, nor a priest, &8 they were all gone
to the funeral of the Bishop of St. Brieuc, 16 miles away, which W&8
being performed at that time. I described the appearance and dreM, and
what he said to me. She immediately went down on her knees to me and
.said, 'You are ble88ed indeed, for it was the Bishop himself.' He had come
to his accustomed place of prayer for the last time on earth."
The writer has never had any other hallucination of the senses, and
refuses to regard this vision as a hallucination.
Her daughter writes, under date April 18th, 1889 :-
My sister and I have tho livoliest recollection of our mother telling us
about seeing the Bishop, dh'ectly we came in from a walk.
We learn from the French official records that Mgr. Augustin
David, Bishop of St. Brieuc, died July 27th, 1882, and was buried at
St. Brieue, Tuesday, August 1st, at 10 a.m., which so far confirms the
account given above.
We may conclude our list of appnritions a few days after death (the
death being unknown) by the following narrative, procured for us
through the kindness of Lord Charles Beresford.
XXII.-Mr. K. writes to Lord C. Beresford, April 22nd, 1888 :-
Teston, Maidstone.
It W&ll in the .spring of 1864, whilst on board H.M.S. Racoon, between
Gibraltar and Marseilles, that I went into my office on the main deck to get
my pipe; &8 I opened the door I saw my father lying in his coffin &8 plainly
as I could. It gave me an awful jerk, and I immediately told some of the
fellows who were smoking just outside in the usual place between the guns,
and I also bold dear old Onslow, our chaplain, a few days after we
arrived at Marseilles, and I heard of my father's death and that he had been
Imried that very day and at that time, half.past 12 in the day. I may add
that at the time it W&8 a bright sunny day, and I had not been "fretting about
my father, &8 the latest news I had of him W&8 that although very ill he W&8
better. My dear old father and I were great chums, more so than is usual
between a man of 72 and a boy of 20, our respective ages then.
In reply to inquiries Mr. K. adds :-
I havl;l ascertained that my fathcr died at Kensington, on April
29th, 1864, and W&8 buriod on May 4th, 1864. I don't know if the
late Mr. Onslow made any note of tho circumstance &8 narrated in my lotter
to Lord C. Beresford. He has been dead some years now. [Mr. K. re-
membered one other officer who might have been present at the time, but
this gentleman did not recollect the incident.]
I may further state that I have never experieneed any other hallucination.
and am not at all emotional, in fact, very matter-of-fact.
This case is too remote to allow of certainty as to the number of days
igitized by Goog
462 On Apparitions occurrinO Boon ajteT Death. [Mar. 18,
elapsed after death; but it seems pretty certain that the apparition
must have been very decidedly after the death, or the ordinary tendency
to improve the exactitude of a coincidence would probably have brought
the two dates together.
And here, as a transition between cases with a few days' interval
and cases with an interval of 'II'UY1&tks, I may mention our single case
. (Proceedings, III., p. 99) of what looks like the old-fashioned haunting
of a survivor who thwarts the wishes of the decedent. A peculiar
feature here is that the haunted man does not realise that he is being
haunted, but yields to the importunity of living persons, and then finds
himself no longer troubled by visions of the dead. The case, however,
is isolated, and admits of being interpreted as a subjective result of a.
sub-conscious state of antagonism to the deceased.
As we recede further from. the moment of death, we find the records
of recognised apparitions becoming rarer ; and few of these records ca.n
be used as evidential, since the death is by this time almost always
known to surviving friends. In two cases cited by Mr. Gurney-the
Akhurst case and the Ie Maistre case-it so happened that the death wa.s
not known to the friends till long after it'occurred; so that these cases
are strictly evidential as fur as they go. If, indeed, the reality of any
post-mortem apparitions should come to ~ generally admitted, it will
be desirable to collect and compare all such apparitions. But for
the present we must confine ourselves to cases where the percipient
was unaware that anyone had died whose aspect corresponded to the
figure seen. This reduces us (apart from cases where the decedent
was known by sight to the percipient) to recognitions of the phan-
tasmal figures from photographs, pictures, or descriptions; and it
further limits us to cases where there is some obvious connection of
place, which puts the percipient on the right road, so to say, for the
identification of the phantom. Such cases will naturally be very rare;-
Mr. Gurney has cited three such,-Mr. Husbands' case, Mrs. Ba.cchus',
and the Tyre case. A case cited by Mrs. Sidgwick (Proceedings, III.,
p. 101), falls under the same category. I have very few to add which
fall within the limit of one year after death, to which, as a.bove
explained, these supplementary cases will be confined. But I may quote
a case so singularly resembling the Husbands case that, although the
identification of the figure is weaker, there is much interest in the
narrative. The narrator is the wife of Colonel Lewin; she has never
experienced any other hallucinations.
St. Leonarda, 1883.
XXIII.-In January. 1868, one of my little children having been delicate
through the winter, waa ordered to St. Leonarda, and I took a house there on
the Marine Parade, close to the arch dividing St. Leonardi from Hastings.
I waa young, Itrong, and in perfect health and spirits; I rented the whole
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitions occurring 800n after Death. 463
house, bringing my own servants; the rooms were furnished and arranged in
the usual _·side lodging-house manner, back and front dining-room, and
back and front drawing-room ; above the latter was a bedroom and dressing-
room which I occupied; over the back drawing-room was another bedroom,
occupied by my eldest sister, lOme nine years older than myself, and a clever
II8JlIible woman not given to phantasies; over this again were the servants
and the nurseries.
One night there was a heavy storm, the weather was bitterly cold, and a
tire was burning in my bedroom when I went to bed at 10.30. My sister and
I had spent the evening together, quietly talking, reading, and dwelling on no
sensational theories of any sort; I went to bed quickly, locking securely the
doors of both rooms as was my habit, but I could get no rest on account of
the noise of the _ and the wind. At last the noise of the rain bubbling up
under the ill-fitting window BUh was 10 annoying, that I got up to try Bnd
stop it by laying towels acroBI; while doitig 10 I noticed that the fire had
gone out, and I poked it and tried in vain to re-animate it; failing to do so I
extinguished my light and again tried to sleep; it was no use, the noise of the
sea and wind was too great. I must have been lying like this for a couple of
hours, very croll and tired, when I became COllBCious of what seemed like a
light in the room ; the bed I was sleeping in was an old-fashioned wooden
one, with high mahogany head and foot; on the left hand side was the wall,
on the right the door, close to the foot, the fire-place. At the foot of the bed
I seemed to see a light. I thought the fire must have re-kindled itself, and
crawled along on my knees to look at the fire over the high wooden foot of
the bed to see how this might be. I had no thought of anything but the fire;
and was not nervous in the slightest degree. As I raised myself on my knees
and looked over the foot of the bed, I found myself face to face, at a distance
of about three feet, with the semblance of a man. I never for a moment
thought he was a maD, but was struck with the feeling that this was one from
the dead.
The light seemed to emanate from and round this figure, but the only
portions which I saw clearly were the head and shoulders. The face I shall
never forget; it was pale, emaciated, with a thin high-bridged nose, the eyes
deeply sunk and glowing in the sockets with a sort of glare. A long beard
was seemingly rolled in under a white comforter, and on the head was a
slouched felt hat. I had a nervous shock, I felt a dead person was looking
upon me-a living one, but had no sensation of being actually frightened,
until the figure moved slowlyas if interposing between me and the door, then
a horror overcame me and I fell back in a dead faint. How long I remained
unconacioUB I know not, but I came·to myself cold and cramped, having
fallen backwards as I knelt with my legs under me ; the room was quite dark,
and, although strongly impressed by the ghostly nature of my experience I
struck a light, and to make quite sUre, I carefully examined the room, looking
under the bed, into the wardrobe and under the dressing-table. I tried
both doors, and they were locked as I had left them. At the window lay my
towels undisturbed; the chimney was too small, neither were there any signa
on the hearth. Then, thoroughly.tired out, I got into bed and slept lOundly
till morning.
When I came down to breakfast, my sister, before I had .said a word,
2H
Digitized by Coogle
464 On Appnritions occurring 80o:n after Death. [Mar. 18,
remarked: "Why, what is the matter 1you look as if you had seen a ghost,"
to which I replied, "That'is just what I have done," and related what is set
down here. I was anxious not to frighten the servants or make a disturbance,
and so could not make so many inquiries as I otherwise should have done,
but from the house-agent I learnt that the house had been last inhabited
during the past winter, by a young man in rapid consumption. He had a
great fancy for trying experiments with collapsible boats, and in blowing up
the air compartments of one of these he broke a blood vessel, was carried into
my room, and died there.
I could not ascertain anything more without making more fuu thlUl I
cared to do.
lt is probable or posaible that I may have been dreaming, but I can only
say, that I was conscious of no sleep, and that the faint was a very real one,
and a very unusual circumstance. for me, who had not fainted more than
perhaps twice in my life. I believed firmly that I saw an apparition.
(Signed) MARoA-RET LEWIN.
I add a case where both the date of the death and the recognition
are uncertain; but where the hallucination a.pparently exercised a more
powerful effect on the percipient than in almost any other of our cases.
XXIV.-From Miss Jessie Walker, Botanic View, Smithdown-
lane, Liverpool.
1884.
About three yearll ago, I and a lady friend engaged apartments in the
house of a widow lady with whom we resided. about eight months, when the
following incident occurred. One evening, we had been sitting up reading rather
later than usual, and did not rise to retire until within a few minutes to 12
o'clock. We went upstairs together, I being perhaps a couple of stepe behind
my friend, when, on reaching the topmost step, I felt something suddenly slip
behind me from an unoccupied room to the leftof the stairs. Thinking it must
be imagination, no one being in the house except the widow and servant. who
occupied rooms on another landing, I did not speak to my friend, who turned
off to a room on the right, but walked quickly into my own room which
faced thl! staircase, still feeling as though a tall figure were behind and
bending over me. I turned on the gas, struck a light and was in the act of
applying it, when I felt a heavy grasp on my arm of a hand minus the
middle finger. Upon this I uttered a loud cry, which brought my friend, the
widow lady, and the servant girl into the room, to inquire the caUIIe of my
alarm. The two latter turned very pale on hearing the story. The house
was thoroughly searched, but nothing was discovered.
Some weeks passed and I had ceased to be alarmed at the occurrence,
when I chanced to mention it whilst out spending the afternoon with some
friends. A gentleman present inquired if I had ever heard a description or
seen a "carte" of the lady's late husband. On receiving a reply in the
negative, he Mid that singularly enough he was tall, had a slight stoop, lUlU
had lost the middle finger of his right hand. On my return I inquired of the
servant, who had been in the family from childhood, if such were the case,
and leanled that it was quite correct, and t.hl\t she (the girl) had once. when
igitized by Goog
1889.] On Apparitions ocC'lJl1'Ting 800n -after Death. 465
lJleeping in the Bame room, been awakened by feeling lOme one preBling
down her knees, and on opening her eyes BaW her late master at the bedside,
on which ahe fainted, and bad never dared to enter the room after duak ainee.
I did not see anything. I may Bal, I am not in the leaat nervous or auper-
8titiOua, bad been reading nothing of an excitable character, and whilst
walking upstaira bad my mind occupied in conjectures as to whether the key
of my watch W88 upstaira or down. I bad alept in the room for eight months,
and never before experienced anything of the kind.
J. W.A.LXER.
In answer to inquiries, Miss Walker adds:-
I did not hear of the lady'a husband being ahort of a finger until a ahort
time after the occurrence, and mentioned at the time that the hand I felt had
lost one. I have written to my friend aaking her to Bend you her recollectionB
of the affair. She came into my room immediately after the event, W88
present when I heard from the acquaintance that the widow'a husband bad
been tall and 100t a finger, and aleo heard the Bervant confirm the fact and
give her account of her fright in the Bame room; 80 I think ahe will be able
to confirm each point of the caae.
I never bad anything of the kind before or lince. I am not in the leaat
8upentitious.
The Bervant married lOme two yean ago and left. It would not be
poBaible to get any account from her. lahould not like to aak the landlady,
nor do I think ahe would give an account if I did. She ia an elderly lady
and W88 very BenBitive about it being mentioned, 80 that I never aaid
anything before her after the fint evening. You can well underatand her
being 80.
It would not, under ordinary circumstances, be easy to be certain
that a hand suddenly grasping one's arm lacked the middle finger. But
here, of course, the grasp is itself a hallucination; and assuming that
this hallucination was caused in some way by the decedent, the sense
of the lack of a finger may have been, so to say, of the very essence of
the hallucinatory impression produced. I may add tha.t the date of the
husband's death remains uncertain, and Miss Walker tells me that it
was spoken of as though it had occurred more than a year before the
hallucination. -
I subjoin an independent account from Miss Clara A~ Spink, Park
Gate, Rotherham.
March, 28th, 1884.
A1I far 88 I can remember the circumatances were 88 followa :-About
three yean ago Mias Walker and myaelf took apartments at the house of a
widow lady, and upon the night in question we retired about 12 p.m., going
upataira in the darkneBI, Mias Walker directly before me. Her room lay
quite oppoaite to the ataircaae,_ another to the left, and mine to the right.
.Aa ahe paaaed the door to the left, which W88 alightly opened, ahe described
tb.,l feeling of a tall form Blipping through the open door and following cloaely
after her, and ben<l!ng over her 80 that the breath W88 quite perceptible.
I
2H2
Digitized by Coogle
4066 On Apparitions occurring Boon after Death. [M.ar.18,
Her fil'llt impulse W88 to rush to her room for a light, and whilst in the
act of striking a match she felt a hand, minus the middle finger, grasp her
arm 80 tightly that afterwards, when her fright had subsided, she looked to
see whether any impression had been made. Upon hearing the screams I
went to her room, only to find her upon the floor in an hysteria of fright.
and her shrieks /loon roused the other inmates of the house. As you may
imagine we were both very mucfu alarmed, and though I neither aaw nor felt
anything of it I ahall always remember the occurrence, and during our stay
in the house we always experienced a feeling of great timidity in paasing tho
room. Strange to aay it W88 not the fil'IIt time that a fright had been
witnessed in the llame room, though our landlady seemed to acorn the idea.
Shortly after the ·event we were spending the evening at the house of a friend,
and during the convel'll&tion the story W88 related, upon the conclusion of
which a gentlemen remarked that the .. late husband of the landlady had
only three fingel'll on the one hand." I leave you to imagine our dismay and
hotTor, for to describe it would only give you a faint idea. I have often
expressed a deaire to have the mystery solved, and should be greatly obliged
f, at your convenience, you would let me have your opinion on the subject.
No doubt my friend would tell you what·a shock it proved to her; in fact
for' months afterwards she W88 a martyr to it.
CLARA A. SPINK.
In the following case it is possible that a real pel'llon may have been
mistaken for an a.pparition, but the details, a.a reported, tell strongly
against this view.
XXV.- From Mrs. Clerke, 68, Redcliffe-square, S.W.
1884.
In the autumn of 1872, I stayed at Sorrento with my two daughteJ'B, and
established myself for lOme months at the Hotel Columella, which staude 011
the high road, within half-a-mile of the town. My suite of apartments
consisted of a large dnwing-room, ante-room, and three bedrooms ; it wsa
shaped like the letter U, and each end opened on a large terrace. The hotel
was kept by two men, Rafaelle and Angelo, and the service of the rooms was
conducted by their wives, a family arJ'Bngement which worked harmoniously
for the guests.
On the evening in question we left the dining-room before the tea. wsa
finished, anxious, after the heat of the day, to enjoy the freshness and beauty
of the terrace.
After a few moments, I returned to my bedroom to fetch a candlestick
and a shawl, and 80 much disliked .going that I loitered unreasonably after I
said I would go. I entered the ante-room and paased through the long
dnwing-room, its porcelain tiling echoing my steps with a sharp creak, till I
reached my bedroom door. One side of the door stood open, it was a door-
way divided in two, or, as the French say, Ii deux battants, and I resolved not
to close it, 88 I perceived everything had been put in order for the night.
I got my shawl and my candlestick, and W88 preparing to return
through the drawing-room, when, on turning towards the half-open door,. I
saw it fUled by the figure of an old woman. She stood motionless, silent.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] . On Apparitions oCC'Wl'T'img 800n after Death. 467
immovable, framed by the doorway, with an expreuion of deapairiDg sadneaa,
such as I had never seen before.
I don't know why I was frightened, but some idea of ita being an imbecile
or mad woman flashed through my mind, and in an unreasoning panic I
turned from the drawing-room door, with ita melancholy figure, and fled
through the bedrooms to the terrace.
My daughter, on hearing of my fright, returned to the rooms, but all was
in ita wonted atillneaa; nothing was to be seen.
The next morning I spoke to the women of the house of the old woman
who had come to my room, as I thought she might be in some way connected
with the establishment, and they were dismayed at my account of her, and
assured me that there was no one answering the description in the house. I
perceived there was much consternation caused by my narration, but paid
little attention to it at the time.
A fortnight afterwards we had a visit from the pariah priest, a friend of
our landlord, and the Bpiritual adviser of the family. At a lOBS for convel'lla-
tion, I told him of my visitor, who arrived punctually at 8 o'clock, .. "ora dei
dA!funti."
The padre listened to me with the greatest gravity, and aid, after a
pause:-
" Madam, you have aoourately described the old mistreaa of this house,
who died, six montha before you came, in the room over yours. The people
of the hotel have been already with me about it ; it has caused them much
anxiety lest you should leave, and they recognised in your description the old
padrona, as ahe was called."
This explained to me various presenta of fruit and Bpecial attentions I had
r,eceived. Nothing more came of it, and I saw the apparition no more. In
our walks we looked for even some semblance of the dreaa in which the
woman appeared, but never saw it. Short as my glance towards her was, I
could have painted her liken6118 had I been an artist. She was pale, of the
thick pallor of age, cold grey eyes, straight nose, thick banda of yellowish
grey hair croBBing her forehead. She wore a lace cap with the border closely
quilted all round, a white handkerchief croaaed over her chest, and a long
white apron. Her face was expreBBionleaa, but fixed and sad. I.could not
think ahe had any knowledge of where she was, or who stood before her, and
certainly, for breaking through the barrier of the unseen, it was a moei
object1eaa visit.
I ought to mention that I had no knowledge of there having been such a
person in existence until her likeneaa stood at my bedroom door.
KATE M. CLnu.
Mrs. Clerke further writes :-
68, Redclifl"e-aquare, S.W.
July 29th. 1884.
I can give you no more aoourate date for the ghost than July, 1872.
Up to the time of my leaving Sorrento, wliich was in two or three montha
after I saw the woman, I think I may BBfely affirm no one in the house had
ever seen her. There was great dismay and consternation, and they were
reticent on the subject. After my first remonstrancea to the women of the
Digitized by Coogle
468 On Apparitions ocC'IJI1"1"iIng sOon after Death. [Mar. 18,
hoUBe who performed the Bervice, against strangera coming to my room, I
never alluded to the subject, but we perceived that the one who arranged the
rooms never again entered mine aWrUl, but brought lIith her her little
daughter.
I never, at any other time, or under any circumstances, 88W or imagined
forma, or heard voices, and I disbelieved in ghoats. I never dreamed anything
particular, and even after the appearance at Sorrento I more imagined it to
be a weak-minded peraon kept in concealment.
The peculiarity of it is my literally describing a peraon whom I had never
seen or known about. Everyone W81 overwhelmed by the portraiture, even
a lady who had seen the old mistress.
KATE M: CLERKE.
Mr. Podmore adda the following notes of an interview with Mrs.
Clerke.
A uguM 15th, 18M.
Called on Mrs. Clerke to-day. She told mo that she had nover be-
lieved in ghoats before, and now believed in very few besides her
own. She W81 quite sure that the description she gave of the figure __
detailed .enough to be recognised. Indeed, the dreaa 81 she 88W it, though
like that actually worn by the old mistress, W81 not a common one in the
district. Mrs. Clerke never 88wone at all like it in Italy. When she 88W
the figure, the dreaa struck her 81 being like that of an old Irish nUl'BC of
hera, and she told her daughter 80, when she rejoined them, ad~g that the
face W8I quite unlike the nUrBe's. Mias Clerko confirmed this statement.
to me.
Mrs. Clerke admitted that it would have been quite pollible for the figure
which she 88W, had it been that of a real woman, to have eacaped. She is,
however, quite convinced that she 88W a ghoat; partly because of the
resemblance, partly because of the unreaaonable terror which Beized her when
abe 88W the figure, for she is not a nervous woman naturally.
There were no noises or other disturbances in the hOUBe during their stay.
(Signed) F. P.
XXVI.-I will conclude with a case which we owe to the kindness
of General Barter, C.B.
This case presents Borne interesting features. In the first place, we
ma.y remark that, although the incident is remote, the testimony is
remarkably concordant. We have three streams of evidence:-
(1) General Barter himself, corroborated by Mrs. Barter; (2) Mr.
Steuart, with whom General Barter had held no communication on the
matter for many years, when (as he informs me) he asked his old
friend, in writing, at my request, simply what he remembered of the
incident; (3) Major Bond, with whom General Barter is not acquainted,
and who gives a merely hearsay account (not here reproduced). Now
we find that Mr. Steuart's evidence is practically identical with General
Barter's, and that Major Bond's-while inaccurate as to a minor point,
Digitized by Coogle
h
1889.] On Apparitions occurring BOon after Death. 469
viz., the precise place where the apparition wa.s seen-has preserved
an important item which Mr. Steuart omitted, viz., the repeated hearing
of 8o'/J"'uis of a horseman galloping down the haunted pathway.
In the second place, this narrative strongly exemplifies the dreafl~
like character of many of these post-mortem apparitions. I do not
mean that they resemble dreams dreamt by the living percipient, but
dreams--if one may so say-dreamt by the dead. The group and the
action which General Barter saw wa.s like a scene reproduced or pro-
longed from the fevered fancies·of the man who had now been some
months in the grave. In the third place, the dogs' behaviour is
noticeable. In every ca.se which I can recall where a dog or other
animal is stated to have been in a position to see or hear phantasmal
sights or sounds, it ha.s been alarmed thereby. But, of course, animals
may have been present-though we have not been informed of it--on
other occasions, and may not have shown alarm.
From General Barter, C.B., of Careystown, Whitegate, Co. Cork.
April 28th,I888.
In the year 1854, I, then a subaltern in the 75th Regiment, was doing
duty at the hill station of Murree in the Punjab. The sanatorium had not
been long in being, and our men were in temporary huts perched on the
crest of a hill lOme 7,000 feet above sea level, and the officers were living in
tents pitched in sheltered spots on the hillside, except three or four who
had been fortunate enough to rent houses, such as they were, which had
been built by their predeceseors. I rented a house built a year or two before
by.a Lieutenant B., who had died the previous year at Peshawur.1 This
house was built on a spur jutting out from the side of the mountain, and
about 200 or 300 yards under the Mall, as the only road then made which
ran round the hill was called. A bridle-path led to my house from the
Mall, and this was scooped out of the hillside, the earth, &c., being shovelled
over the side next my house. The bridle-path ended at a precipice, but a
few yards from there a footpath led to ~y hut.
Shortly after I had occupied my hut an officer named D. came down one
evening with his wife and stayed with us until near 11 p.m. It was a lovely
night, with the moon at the full, and I walked with them to where my path
joined the brid'le-road, and remained standing there while they toiled up the
zig-tag footpath to the Mall, from which they called down to me good-night.
I had two dogs with me, and remained on the spot while I finished the cigar
which I was smoking, the dogs meanwhile hunting about in the brushwood
jungle which covered the hill. I had just turned to return home when I
heard the ring of a horse's hoof as the shoe struck the stones coming along
the bridle-path before it takes the sharp bend [marked in a plan which
General Barter encloses], and presently I could see a tall hat appear,
evidently worn by the rider of the animal. The steps came nearer,
and in a few seconds round the corner appeared a man mounted on
1We learn from the War Office that Lieutenant B. died at Peshawur, January
2nd, 18M.
Digitized by Coogle
470 On Apparitions occurring Boon after Death. [Mar.1H,
a pony with two syces or grooms. At thia time the two dogs came,
and crouching at my side, gave low frightened whimpers. The moon
was at the full, a tropical moon, so bright that you could see to read a
newspaper by its light, and I saw the party before me advance 811 plainly 811 if
it were noon-day j they were above me. some eight or ten feet on the bridle-
road, the earth thrown down from which sloped to within a pace or two of
my feet. On the party came IUltil almost in front of me j and now I had
better describe them. The rider was in full dinner dress, with white waiat-
coat, and wearing a tall chimney-pot hat, apd he sat a powerful hill pony (dark
brown, with black mane and tail) in a liatleas sort of way, the reins hanging
loosely from both hands. A syce led the pony at each side, b.ut their faces
I couldn't see, the 0l\e next to me having hia back to me, and the one farthest
off being hidden by the pony's head; each held the bridle close up by the
bit, the man next me with hia right, the other with hia left hand, and the
other hands were on the thighs of the rider 811 if to steady him in hia seat.
As they approached I, knowing that they couldn't get to any place other
than my own, called out in Hindustani, "Quon hai W" (who ia itt). There was
no answer, and on they came till right in front of me, when I said in Engllah,
"Hallo, what the d--l do you want here W.. Instantly the group came to
a halt, the rider gathering the bridle-reins up with both hands, turned his
face, which had hitherto been looking away from me, towards me and looked
down upon me. The group was still as in a tableau, with the bright moon
shining full upon it, and I at onco recogniaed the rider811 Lieutenant B.,WhODl
I had formerly known. The face, however, was different from what it WIed
to be: ill place of being clean-shaved as when I knew it, it was now
surrounded by a fringe (what used to be known as a Newgate fringe), and it
was the faco of a dead man, the ghastly waxen pallor of it brought out more
diatinctly in the moonlight by the fringe of dark hair by which it was
encircled j the body, too, was far stouter than when I had known it in life.
I marked all thia in a moment, and then'resolved to lay hold of the thing
whatever it was. I dashed up the bank, and the earth which had been
thrown on the side giving under my feet I fell forward up the bank on my
hands j recovering myself instantly, I gained the road, and stood in the
exact spotwhere the group had been, but which was now vacant; there wasn't
a trace of anything; it was impossible for them to'go on, the road stopped
at a precipice about 20 yards beyond, and it was inlpOBBible to turn and go
back in a second. AU thia flashed through my mind, and I then ran along
the road for about 100 yards, along which they had come, until I had to stol'
for want of breath, but there was no trace of anything, and not a sound to be
heard. I then returned home, where I found my dogs, who, on all other
occasions my most faithful companions, had not ~me with me along the road.
Next morning I went up to D., who belonged to the same regiment as B.,
and gradually induced him to talk of him. .I said: "How very stout he had
become lately, and what possesaod him to allow hia beard to grow into that
horrid fringe W" D. replied: "Yea, he became very bloated before hia death;
you know he led a very f8llt life, and while on the sick liat he allowed the
fringe to growin spite of all we could say to him, and I believe he was buried
with it... I then asked where he got the pony I had seen, describing it
minutely. "Why," said D., "how dQ you know anything about all thiaf
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitiom occurring.800n after Death. 471
You hadn't Been B. for two or three years; and the pony you never BaW.
He bought him at Peshawur, and killed him one day riding in his reckIeIIII
fuhion down the hill to Trete."
I then told him what I had Been the night before.
R. BARTER, Major-General, C.B.
In conversation, on October 12th, 1888, General Barter gave me
some further details, which I put down next day, and which he has
kindly revised and corrected:- .
October 13th, 1888.
When I BaW the apparition I had been about a week in Uncle Tom's
Cabin. I heard that B. had built the house; but that fact did not
interest me. I never talked about B. He was never in my thoughts.
I am positive that I had not heard about his change of appearance before
death.
When I BaW the rider and aycea approaching me down the hill I noticed
that, as the path wu narrow u well as rough, sometimes one syce and some-
times the other would have to leave the path, and walk on the hillaide above
or below it, still holding the rider. When I rushed up the hill to accoat the
rider he was only some four yards from me, but the intervening space was a
bank of soft earth (thrown from the path when it was made), so that I
stumbled in it when almost close on the horae.
We remained about six weeks in Uncle Tom's Cabin [i.e., as afterwards
explained, in June and July]. During that time my wife and I repeatedly
. heard the BOund of a man riding rapidly down the path to the house. There
was never anyone really there; and in fact, except B:, I doubt whether
Anyone had ever ridden down that path. B. was a reckIeIIII rider, and
eventually rode to death the very pony whose image I BaW. I Bay the
very pony, for Lieutenant Deane recognised the pony as well as the rider
from my description.
Once when the galloping sound was very distinct, I rushed to the door of
the house. There I found my Hindoo bearer, standing with a tattie in his
hand. I asked him what he was there for. He said that there came a BOund
of riding down the hill, and "passed him like a typhoon," and went round
the comer of the houae, and he was determined to waylay whatever it waa.
He added: "Thitan ka gktw hai," (It is a devil's houae).
R. BARTER, Major-General, C.B.
Asked whether Lieutenant B. could ever have ridden that pony
during his lut' illness, General Barter says :-
Trete is the first march down the hill from Murree to the plains, and it
was on the road between Murree and Trete that he killed the pony by
recklellll riding,-80 I understood. I don't believe he was ill when he killed
the pony, and I have no.reason to think that the scene I BaW had ever existed
in reality.
The attitude of the rider held on to the horse suggested intoxication
rather than illness. .
Digitized by Coogle
472 On Apparitions ooc'II/r"";'ng soon ajter Death. [Mar. 18.
Mr. Adam Steuart, formerly Lieutenant 87th Royal Irish Fusilie~
writes to General Barter, September, 1888, as follows:-
I well remember your coming ,into my hut at Murree, when I was atilI
in bed, one morning, and telling me you had seen the ghost of J. B. the
night before. Deane of the 22nd had, you told me, been to dinner with
you, and when he and his wife left you walked with them a bit of the way,
and then you sat down to finish your pipe at the side of the path before
going home. While thus sitting you heard the sound of horses' hoofs behind
you, and the path they were apparently in ~nly led down to your house. You
jumped up to see who it could be. You then saw a European on a black
pony, with two native servants, apparently holding him on. You called
out, asking who it was, and receiving no reply sprang up the hill to give him
a leBSOn in politeneaa. Doing ao, you caught your foot and fell, and when
you recovered your feet the apparition had vanished.
On this account General Barter comments as follows :-
I was not sitting down, but was standing up, finishing a cheroot, and the
sOund of the hoofs was in front of me, and I could see the man's hat for lOme
time before the entire group ~e into view on my left front.
I asked Mr. Steuart .. whether he remembered anything as to
Lieutenant B.'s aspect or hair." He replied as follows :-
16, Crookham-road, Fulham, S.W.
September 24th, 1888.
DBAR SIR,-I beg to acknowledge receipt of your favour of 21st inat.,
and in reply have to state that when General (then Lieutenant) Barter
told me of what he had seen he said to me, in almost these words, "I would
have said it was J. B. but that it was so stout, and that he had what
is commonly called a Newgate frill" (viz., the hair of the beard growing
under 'the chin). I had not myself seen Mr. B. for some time before
his death, but I believe he did get bloated before he died, and for lOme
time previously he had from some freak or other grown the hair under his
chin.-I remain, dear sir, youra faithfully,
ADAM SnUABT_
Finally, Mrs. Barter confirms as follows :-
OctOOer IStA, 1888.
During the summer of 1854 my husband, then a lieutenant in 75th
Regiment, was doing duty at the Murree Dep6t, in the Punjaub, and one
night when Mr. and Mrs. Deane, 22nd Regiment, had been spending the
evening with us, he accompanied thom part of the way home. On his return,
seeing him very pale and with a troubled expression, I questioned him, and
he told me that when the Deanes had left him, as he was about returning
home, he was surprised to hear the sound of a horse's hoofs, on the little
road leading to our house, "Uncle Tom's Cabin" as it was called, and
that when the horse came in view he saw that he was ridden by a
European, who was held on by two syces, ,that they came close
to him, on the roadway, under which he was standing, and on his
challenging them the rider stopped the pony and looked down on him, and
he, by tho light of the full moon, atonce recognised him as Lieutenant B.,
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Appantiom ocC'lJ/l'nng Boon after Death. 473
22nd Regiment, who had :died BOrne time before in Peshawur. My
husband aaid that he made a duh up the bank to get at the party, but the
earth thrown down from the road gave under his feet, and he slipped forward
on his handa, and when he recovered himself the whole thing had disappeared.
We lived at" Uncle Tom's Cabin" for about six weeks after, and several
times heard a .horse gallop down the path /lnd round our house, at break-neck
speed, during the night, the panting of the horse being quite audible, and
once my husband, hearing it approaching, threw open the door as it passed
and ran into the verandah, where stood our old bearer, named "Bola,"
armed with a tattie, who said he often heard it go past like a whirlwind, and
that it was the devil's house. I may add that our house, .. Uncle Tom's
Cabin," had been built by Lieutenant B.
(Signed) M. D. BARTER.
The above narrative is interesting from yet another point of view.
It affords a marked example of what we have termed" local cases,"-
cases where the appearance of the phantom seems to have borne relation
rather to the place where it was seen than to the percipients who saw
it. Such cases were briefly touched upon, both by Mr. Gurney and by
myself, in PIw.ntaBms of the Living,.1 but in this fresh collection of
phantasms of persons recently dead they occur in decidedly larger
proportion, and seem to call for renewed notice.
The 27 cases quoted at length in this paper (of which cases XV.,
XVI., XVIII., XXVII., contain more than one separate incident) may
be divided thus. Five were dreams or "borderland" cases (VII.,
XVII., XiX., XX., XXI.), and four of these were pe'rSOfW rather than
kxal, while in case XXI. dream-communica.tion--if we account it a
dream~was apparently caused by a fact of locality.· Let us go on
to the developed waking hallucina.tions which our paper contains. Seven.
of these were purely personal in character (I., II., III., IV., XIII.,
XVIII., XXII.); that is to say, the phantom appeared to a surviving
friend, in that surviving friend's own entourage. In six cas~ (IX.,
XII., XIV., XV., XVI., XXVII.) the phantom was in some sense both
personal and local; it appeared to known persons, hut also in a
familiar place. In one of these narratives-Colonel Crealock's-the
connection between the decedent and the percipient was slight; but the
percipient was in a sense brought nearer to the decedent by the fact
that both were immersed in the same absorbing train of ideas, viz., the
Zulu War.
Finally, in ten cases (V., YI., VIII., XI., XVIb., XXI., XXIII.,
XXIV., XXV., XXVI.) the connection seems to have been purely
local. In only one of these cases-General Barter's-had the percipient
ever seen the decedent when in life, and in this case a part of the
J See VoL II.• pp. 268 (where the csses below mentioned are referred to) and
301-2, where locality, &8 an attractive cause independent of pen!OIIAl re&8OlllI, is
amggeeted.
Digitized by Coogle
4740 On Apparitions occurring BOon after Death. [Mar. 18,
impression was shared by others, to whom Lieutenant B. had been a
stranger. In four of these cases (V., VI., XI., XXIII.) the figure
appears actually in the room where the death occurred. In three
(XVlb., XXIV., XXV.) the figure appears in the house, but not in
the room where death ·occurred. In one-General Barter's-the figure
appears a few hundred yards from a house where the decedent had
lived. In one--(VIII.)-the decedent's figure appears, not in the room
or the house where he himself died, but in the house where his wife has
just died, and in the room above that in which her body lay; and in
one (XXI.) the figure is in a room occasionally occupied by the
decedent.
Turning back to Phantasms of t/1,6 Living, we note that there were
. a good many cases where there may have been a local as well as a
persona~ attracting cause for the phantasm,-as when a man dying
away from home appears to his family at home. But besides and
beyond these cases, there are a few (as pointed out by Mr. Gurney, II.,
p. 268) where the loca.l cause may fairly be supposed to have been pre-
dominant. Such,eminently, was the Bard and de-Freville case,which now
finds its more suitable place among cases occurring shortly after death.
And such was the case of the maltster (II., p. 57), who saw his employer
standing on the steps leading to the kiln door. Such, too (if not a
ease of mistaken identity), was the appearance of Professor Conington
to Mr. Andrew Lang in Oriel-lane (II., p. 70). Such was the case where
the phantom of a servant, absent in, hospital, appeared to a fellow-
servant, by no means her friend, at Troston Hall. Both perBOfU1l and
local, again, was the case (II., p. 230) where the steps of a butler
seemed to be heard in his mistress' house, as though he were
extinguishing the gas, at the moment of his death in hospital at
Ventnor. This case, indeed, pretty closely resembles that which
Colonel Crealock has reported, where the phantom of Mr. D., killed
at some distance, was seen removing his bedding from the camp.
Another case where the attraction must have been local is that (II., p.
541) where theyoung girl just about to commit suicide by hanging herself
on a tree was seen by a stranger appa~ntly going towards the grove,
at a moment when she was provably within doors. This last-mentioned
case (unfortunately very remote) resembles a "haunting" belOf"~ death,
while at the same time it reminds us of the cases where a man's
phantom has been seen. returning home, &c., a short time before he
~tually arrives.
Once more. General Campbell's case is, in a certain sense, local as
well as personal. That is to say, the phantasmal phenomena occurred
in the deceased lady's intended horne,-unfinished at her death-and
mainly in the presence of her husband. But it will be noted that one
of the most marked phenomena--the visual hallucination-occurred not
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On Apparitions occurring soon after Death. 475-
to General Campbell, but to a child who had never seen the decedent.
Are we therefore to class this case as predominantly a local one 1 or
may we suppose that the effort at self-manifestation was made for
General Campbell's benefit, but was, as it happened, more easily
perceptible by the child-guest than by the widower himself 1
There are several cases in Plw.ntasms of tIle Living which suggest
this latter interpretation j-cases, that is to say, where the apparition
seems to be conditioned or attracted by the presence, or expected
presence, of some one other than the person who actually does per-
ceive it. Such is the case [1., p. 524] wher~ Mrs. Ranking's face appears,
at the moment of death, not to her daughter, but to her daughter's
father-in-law, who is sitting in the same rOOlIl. Such is the case
[II., p. 40] where Lou.isa B.'s p'hantom is seen in the house of her old
friend Mr. D. j yet not by Mr. D. himself, but by his sister, to whom
the decedent was ahnost a stranger. Such was a case [1.; p. 559] where
a lady, sitting in the drawing-l'OOm of her father's rectory, saw the
phantom of a dying relation, who much desired to see her father, but
had no special interest in herself. Such was II. case [II., p. 613] where
the apparition of a dying lady was seen in the house of a Mr. Robertson,
to whom she was engaged to be married,but seen not by Mr. Robertsoll,
who was away from home, but by his SOilS. Such, too, was the very
singular case [II., p. 61] where the phantom of Mr. J. H. de la Poer
Beresford appeared, not to his sister, Mrs. Clerke, but to a black nurse
who was near, and who saw the figure apparently leaning over Mrs.
Clerke's chair.l
And while the personal character of the apparitions thus tends to
give way, in post-mortem apparitions, to the local, we observe also (so
far as our small collection of cases permits of generalisation), that the
1 Cases have IIOmetimes been reported (though we have hardly any in our ~wn
collection) where a phantom appears to a stranger, expre&ling a desire that a near
friend shall be infonnL'<l of the appearance. Such is a narrative printed by the
American Society for Pyschical Research (Proceeding. IV., p. 601), where a Mr.
N. X., of New Jersey, sayH: .. My wife, residing with relatives in a remote town in
South-Western Virginia, died suddenly of apoplexy on a ThuJ'Hday, and was buried un
the Saturday following. Remoteness made the telegraph UReless as a summons to me,
and on the Monday morning following I received two letters,~ne announcing her
death. a.nd one from a lady, a school·teacher, a. principal [living near the Dela.ware
Water Gap). with whom I corresponded much on the educa.tional matters affecting
her, in which ~he informed me that a spirit had apPf'ared to her and desired her to
inform me of her identity M my wife, and of her death. Neither party had ever met;
one was ignorant of the existence of the other. The sudden death of my wife, a fl1w
hours' illness, her ignorance of the existence of my correspondent, preclude all physical
communication."
The lady referred to writes to Mr. Hodgson: .. I cannot recall the details of my
interview with Mrs. X. I only remember ~ha.t I seemed to be at her home ill
Virginia., and in Oonvel"llation with her, in which she reqUel!ted me to infonn Mr. X.,
who was then iriNew York, of her sudden' transition,' which I did immediately."
,
476 On Apparitions OCCtl/ffllng 800n after Death.] Mar. 18,
recognition manifested by the apparition,-its apparent attention to the
percipient-tends to become less.
In these respects these "transitional ghosts "occupy a midway
position between the phantoms which appear at the moment of death
and the" haunting" figures of which Mrs. Sidgwick and others have
published several records. In few of those narratives of "haunting n
has it been thus far possible to establish a clear connection between the
haunting figure and any deceased person.
Nevertheless there are a few instances where there seems to have
been a recognition after the lapse of more than a year from the da.te
of death ; and these are deferred for review on a future occasion.
Meantime, the evidence given in this paper for veridical phantasms
occurring shortly after death is manifestly much weaker than the
evidence already published for veridical phantasms occurring at or about
the time of death. Even were we to add to the list in this paper all
the non-evidentin.l "visions of consolation "-where the bereaved
husband, for instance, sees the figure of his wife, for whom he is then
mourning-we should not raise the total to anything like the number
of cases which roughly coincide with the death. This discrepancy,
however,-if the cases be indeed veridical-need not surprise us. On
any theory~xcept that of direct providential intervention-we should
think it antecedently likely that any power of communication with
living persons must lessen as the decedent becomes more remote from
earthly life., This need not lead us to suppose, with the Platonic Cebes,
that the departed person is gradually extinguished altogether. "If
indeed there be a life beyond that of earth, it would ill become us
to assume to track its progress or to assign its limitation.
I must conclude by an earnest request for accounts of further
cases resembling those given in the above paper.1 No part of our
inquiry bears more directly upon problems of, the utmost importance to
all~us. R~a~
APPENDIX.
The following account is tedious and the recorded phenomena
are of an inconclusive type. We have, however, thought it right
to print the narrative as a specimen of care and accuracy in
observation and description. Mr. Gurney and I went over the house
with General Campbell, and were satisfied that no more candid or
painstaking informant could be' found. Unfortunately he died no~
I The present collection is not a complete one. Several cues of great in~
were published in a little volume called SpiN Identity, by .. 1\1. A. (Oxon)" (London,
1879.) But &8 I undel'1ltand that there is a proepect that this work (DOW oat of print)
may be re·issued with further details, I defer notice of its conteats.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] On .Apparitions occurriing SOO'1/. ufter Death. 477
long after this interview; and we believed tha.t there had been few
further phenomena to record. We ha.ve not thought it needful to print
the plan of the house. Mr. Gurney and I saw the principal servant;
and from the disposition of rooms and the character of the household,
we agreed with General Campbell that the hypothesis of practical
joking on the part of servants wa.s quite untenable. It may be ob-
served that the actual ringing of a bell (if not due to ordinary causes)
would take us among a clllo8S of physical phenomena which lie outside
the scope of this paper.
XXVII.-From General Campbell, Gwalior House, Southgate, N.
April 'l:1th., 1884.
Statement of apparently ultra-mundane occurrences, at times and placea
aeelDingly guided by intelligence, from September 16th, 1882, to April 6th,
1884, in my qe, isolated hoUBe above quoted.
The above quoted is a large two-storied building, having an &rea of 68 by 71
feet, the lower floor raised five feet from the ground level, which is concreted
throughout. The hoUBe is a very BOlid one, with no lath and plaster to
convey BOunds, thoroughly lighted in every part, and consequently not only
very dry, but quite free from rats or mice. There are two cats, which are
invariably turned out at night, with no poBBibility of getting in again. No
dogs, except one, along way off in the yard. The hoUBe is surrounded by .
fields to a distance of 300 yards to the nearest cottage, situated on a private
road, not metalled (having scarcely any wheeled traffic, and very rarely any
at night), distant 40 yards from the house. It WaR completed in August,
1882, and the only ordinary residents are myself on the S.E. side, and three
eervants on the N.W. aide, having only one doorway between the body of the
hoUBe and the servants' quartan on each floor. See sketch accompanying, in
which the particular rooms referred to are within red lines, with all needful
detai.le marked thereon. It is naturally a particularly quiet hoUBe, and I
seldom h~ a BOund, not made by myself. The servants are alway. in their
bedroom C (see sketch) by 10.30 p.m., and I almoat invariably enter my
diatant bedroom A about 11 p.m.
I have explained all this in great detail to show that every BOund is heard
among perfect quietneBB, particularly at night.
The rest of this statement refen to about 30 inexplicable BOunds, aR if
inviting my attention specially, and two apparitions or visions, apparently of
a carefully calculated nature, seen by a child visitor, being a blood relation
of my late wife, who died in July, 1882, and whom this child had never seen,
nor yet any likeneu of her.
Having now cleared the way for a general view of the whole caae, I will
give the details, premising that I am much the reverse of a nervous or fanciful
temperament, rather cautious, at my present advanced age, aR to believing
anything without the" Q. E. D." ; also of very regular and temperate habits,
having always been BO, never drinking wine or beer, and only an ounce and a
half of spirits in three-quartan of a pint of water in 24 hours; and that the
child quoted does not yet undentand what the word "ghOlt" means.
As before mentioned, my wife died in July, 1882. At that time I had
never given the subject of ultra-mundane indications any consideration what
Digitized by Coogle
478 On Apparitions occ1J,rt-ing 800n aftel' Death. [Mar. 18,
ever, beyond what. I had heard of the experiences of two of my relatives in a
vague sort of way, several years ago (within 10 years), and it was not till
about the middle of the occurrences under notice that I read the books
of Dale Owen, D. D. Home, and Serjeant Cox.
The inexplicable phenomena quoted have only been in my own bedroom,
A (chiefly); the visitors' room, B; and the servants' bedroom (twice), and
kitchen below the latter (once); also once in my day-room, below my
bedroom, A. With so much variation in quality of BOund, there must have
been quite as many inexplicable natural causes, if natural (munwme) c:a~
have existed.
The first few indications I did not record at all, but note them now
as between the 15thand 30th September, 1882, being six weeks from the date
of my wife's death-i.e., the former date. (1) At 3 a.m., while asleep in my
bedroom A, amid perfect quietness, I was awoke by loud and prolonged.
knocking, as by knuckles of a man. Went to the door with night-light;
nothing to be seen or hesrd : thought it must have been fancy. I may add
that my late wife was much in my mind, but I had not the wildest idea of any
ultra-mundane communication, having given no thought to the subject. (2)
About 1.30 p.m. Servants at dinner in kitchen below C. Heard a loud and
continuous rapping ; part rap, part rattle, apparently on or outside the room
window in front. Thought it might be an intimate friend rapping with his
umbrella, as no bell had then been put up. Looked through every window
on the lower floor, then round the house outside in both directions. Saw
and heard nothing. Returned to my room by the kitchen door (below C) ;
found the servants at dinner too far oft' (over 60ft., with two cloaed doors)
to hear the rapping. A part of the BOund was that of the 110ft part of the
doubled fist striking the side frame of the window, and fingers tapping on the
gu, all combined. I note here that the hour (between 1 and 2 p.m.) waa
the most favourable posaible to avoid confusion with other lIOunds, and as if-
as I now think-the rapping by day came after the unsuccessful knocking at
my bedroom door at night. (3) At 11 p.m. Servants all quiet in their bed-
room, and self justgot into bed, a night,...light burning as usual. Heard two
clear single raps on the door X. The door also seemed to open about a foot.
The sound \\'as the hollow lIOund of knocking with knuckles, not the cn.king
of a door. Got up and saw nothing; all dark outside. (4) About 11 p.m.
again, and (as before) just after getting into bed. Servants in bed at 9.30.
All quiet, without a sound of any kind. Heard more rappings near the head
of my bed, where some relies are kept. On t.he two last occasioll1l, I waa
thinking of the departed one. All this from 15th to 30th September, 1882.
and I think chiefly (as subsequently) between Saturday nights and sunrise on
Monday., which seems curious. The two apparitions, hereafter detailed,
were also at daybreak of a Saturday (Sunday being Christmas Day) and
Monday. After 30th September, 1882, the rappings, &c., \Vere regularly
recorded on the day following the night of the occurrence.
22nd October, 1882 (Sunday), at (note that by "at" I mean about, but
will keep to the exact records) 6.30 a.m. I had been previously out of bed
for half-an-hour. Servants just gone down to the kitchen below t.heir bed-
room C. I seem to hear quite distinctly the Christian name of my late wife
about three feet from my ear ; it was not in her natural voice, the sound ,....
moderately low (not a whisper), with each syllable given at equidistant
--- '~i9itized by Coogle
1889]. On ~ppa".itions occurring soon afte". Death. 479
intervals and at the same pitch as is pronounced by a speaking machine ; it
... hardly in a natural voice at all. There is a aervant of the same name in
the house, then far from my room ; but it ~as no familiar voice that I heard,
and, on inquiry, her name had not been called by anyone about that hour. I
have never imagined or heard a name in the same manner. After this I
obtained the two books by Dale Owen and read them.
,November 9th, 1882 (same year), time about 7 a.m.-Heard two con-
eecutive aets of sounds, like blows on my under pillow, too loud for heart
pulsations, which followed (just felt). I wrote and placed on my chest 01
drawera (lee sketch) "Give three rapl if from my late wife."
November 13th, 1882.-At 11.30 p.m. had just got into bed about a
minute. Servants all retired at 10 p.m., and perfect quietneas inside and
outside of the house. No strong wind. Heard three very loud crashel
apparently through the wall (14in. wall), just above the chest of drawers
marked in Iketch in my bedroom A. The sound was indescribable-some-
thing between the blasting of a tree-trunk by lightning, the sudden breaking
of a 3in. plank acroaa a fixed fulcrum. and the report of a rifle, but more
prolonged-nearly as loud as the report of a large-bored pistol in a room
(which I have heard before). This, considering my repeated request for three
rap&, lta.rtled me much. There was an interval of some four seconds between
, each report. Having lighted a candle, I examined the wall closely to aeek
for any crack or fiBBure in it or the colour wash (no wall-paper), but could see
nothing, or up to this date. Looked over the long corridor (aee sketch).
then examined the wall in the empty room adjoining at S, but could detect
nothing-no sounds of any kind, nor sign of failure in any wall. roof, or other
part of the hoUle. The aervants (who sleep soundly) were not infonned,
and made no remark~having 60ft. of distance and three closed doors between
us. On hearing theae crashes, I knew nothing about repeating the alphabet,
or did not think of it; but I took a pencil, held at the end by two fingers
lightly, to see if a precedent quoted by Dale Owen might again occur-no
results. I now requested, as before, that further rappings might be either on
the door or on the thin panel-door of the hanging wardrobe. (See sketch.)
Up to December 23rd, 1882, there were no further indications of the
same kind, but on the 24th December, 1882, I had as visitors a lady and two
children, aged 7 and 10, both girla. They were blood relatives of my late
wife, and the mother a special favourite of hers. The mother and eldestchild
alept on the "double bed" (see sketch) in bedroom B, while the younger
child, a very delicate, clever child, slept in the "child's" bed, near the fire-
place (lee Iketch), looking full on the "easy chair," 10 marked on the other
Bide of the fire-place.
In the grey, early morning light of the 24th December. the younger
child, on the "child's" bed, awoke her mother saying, .. Who is that lady
Bitting in the arm-chair'" (The chair was usually empty, without any
antimacaaaar.) The mother, seeing nothing but the empty chair in itl
usual position and .tate, intervened between the child and chair, and
IUcceeded in soothing her. Nothing further was said, that day, either to
myaelf or others.
Same date, about midnight, I heard a sudden and loud tap in my bed-
room A which awoke me from a half dozing ltate. The lady in bedroom B
&lao heard a loud tap apparently, in her room; whether at the same moment
2 I
Digitized by Coogle
480 On Apparitions oCC'U1"1'ing BOon after Death. [Mar. 18,
could not be ascertained. (Curiously enough, one of the servanta dreamed
that the lady had mentioned this tap to her, which was not the case till next
morning, astonishing the lady by replying, "You told me of this last night,
orI must have dreamed it.")
26th December, 1882.-At daybreak, as before-a grey morning, the
aame child, being wide awake ( as usual with her at early morning), 88W the
figure of a, "tall lady in a long grey dress, a tall hat with a feather in it ;
the face was very thin and white" (the child shuddered when repeating this
two days afterwards). "I heard the sweep of the long dreM on the floor
and the sound of slippered feet-the heela-aa the lady came by the door.
She went to the side of your bed," the mother's, (see double bed on sketch)
"and seemed to smooth down the clothes and tuck you in comfortably, then
went round the bed to the table on the other side, near the head of the bed"
(see sketch), "then took up some books, opened them, and put them down
again." A Bible, Prayer-book and others lay there. "Then she turned round
and was coming to me, when I put my head under the bed-clothes. I was
so frightened that I could not speak." This was stated by the mother to be
usual with her, though far from being a timid child. She slept in August
following in the spare room E with her aister, before mentioned, and a
younger brother of five years, requiring no night-light. (The room was
chosen as being nearest to the aerY8nta in the absence of the mother.) There
is no gueMing the motivea of a child, but strangely enough she aaid nothing
about it till about to be put to bed at night, when she aaid to a young servant
girl, "I don't want to aleep alone in this bed again. " Then the whole atory
came out. The aervant girl told the mother, who came at once to my room
with it-atating also for the first time what the child had seen on the
Saturday morning, the 24th. I may mention here that there had been
no Christmas amusement. or mummery of any kind to affect the child'8
nerves, and she was in her usual health. Her veracity is beyond aUBpicio5,
and she may have been afraid of displeasing her mother in consequence of
what occurred on the 24th. The whole story is too circUlllBtantial and
complete for such a child, and she does not, as before stated, understand
the meaning of the word" ghoat" (having been entirely brought up by the
mother). We did not like to question so young a child much in the matter;
but during the remainder of her visit here (some two weeks) she adhered
exactly to the aame account, telling the servant that she would not sleep
again in the aame bed, or without alight (which was given), because "that
woman would come back." Child-like, she did not object to sleeping alone
in room E, in .Tuly following. (See ante.) The child continued 80 very
positive as to what ahe had seen that her mother made the beat of it by
aaying that perhaps she had seen a good angel. The mother is far from
being a Spiritualist, and is a lady of strong common-selllle and nerve.. Her
opinion was-quoting her knowledge of the child-that the latter "must
have seen something," as there had been no previoUB visions of any kind, nor
have there been since.
As regards my own view of the case, I cannot help remarking the
intelligently cautious course of the two appearances or visions, 80 aa not
to frighten the child, and the similarity between the description given by the
child, and the ordinary appearance of my late wife-never lIeen by the child
Digitized by Coogle
1889]. On Apparitions occurring Boon after Death. 481
nor any such likeness-in her forenoon dress, &c., when on her regular
daily visits to the damp garden. stables, and poultry-yard. The similarity
stands thus :-
The figure .. was tall It (my late wife was 5ft. 5in. in house shoes, without
heels, and must have appeared taller to the child in consequence of the rest
of the description, being also taller than her mother and other people usually
about her).
"In a long grey dreBS.It The dreBS-8till with me-is not what a painter
would call grey; being made of "pooahmllDa,It an Indian cloth, of a light
brownish earth colour, sometimes called a "brown grey It by milliners, and
what the child (according to the mother) would call "grey," particularly in
the grey light of early morning. The dreBS (an outer garment like a cloak)
seems to myself to be of a grey colour in the grey light of the early morning.
I do not think that the child saw anything with her natural eyes; but as
somnambulists or mesmerised persons see and hear ; else the mother would
have seen the first or (apparently) preparatory apparit~on or vision.
The" long dress," described corresponds with the dress just deacrlbed-
being usually looped up, as is often done with "~-traina, It when out of
doors.
.. With a tall hat and feather in it.It The garden hat was a high-crowned
soft felt, of the wide-awake kind, with a gauze or muslin band round the
crown, with dropping end hanging dpwn on one side--always worn with the
dreBS described. Long dresses were always worn.
" Heard the trail of the dress on the 1I.00r,It or "rustling sound It of the
same. This I have never heard; but sharper ears might have done so.
" And the sound of heels on the lI.oor.It This corresponds, as rather loose
goloshes were invariably worn with the same general dress, when leaving or
entering the house. A light stick, not quoted by the child, but making a
tapping noise in the house, was always carried. The quoting of the rustling
BOund of the dress and of the heels, seems, however, to give an objective
character to the apparition.
•• Went round the large bed (occupied by the mother and elder sister),
"smoothing down and tucking in the bed-clothes.It This apparently affec-
tionate procedure seems as if intended to prevent alarm to the seer, as also
the taking up and laying down of books before paBBing the seer's bed in
returning round, the large bed. The return towards the child (see route
dotted on the sketch) was too much for the child, who" covered up her
head with the bed-clothes." The child stated that she "could not speak."
(This, according to the mother, was usual with her, when frightened.) The
detailed description of the two appearances, and of the whole procedure on
tha second occasion, which must have taken some minutes, seems, as before
stated, far too much for 80 young a child, and particularly this child, who is
not at all given to long narratives. The fact of covering up her head shows
that she was quite awake, and her exact repetition of the same details for
many days shows that all the details must have been impreBBed upon her
mind, and more so than moat ordinary occurrences, in such detail. The child
changed beds with her sister on the night of the 26th December (1882), and
by burning a night-light, and leaving the door wide open (myself being just
on the outside), pending her mother entering the room for the night, she did
~2
Digitized by LIOOgIe
482 On .Apparitiom occ'U/rrvng soon after Death. [Mar. 18,
not repeat "that woman will come back again. My idea is that this child
was the only" sensitive" (like D. D. Home) in the houae, and made use of
to supplement the indications which I and the servanta could hear. It
seems to be admitted (see Mechanillm of Man, Vol. II.) that a few people
have the power of inducing artificial somnambulism or tra.nce, with full
power over the thoughta and even worda of BOme sensitives. It is evidently
neither a mechanical nor persuasive power. Who can say that a departed
spirit in another stage of existence has not the same power 1
January 12th, 1883; time, about 2 a.m.-I had just been out of bed, and
downstairs, to see to a BOund of footatepa outaide, and in a few seconds, after
getting into bed again, I heard a distinct continuous knocking on the ward-
robe panel at the foot of my bed, apparently in compliance with my previous
requesta, (supposing ultra.-mundane agency,) since the last indications_ ifby
aoft knucklea, about four feet above the fiooI;, in the centre of the panel,
which forma, pra.ctically, a BOunding-board. Allservanta in their distant bed-
room c, and the rooms adjoining mine both empty. All quiet inside and
outaide the houae. There were three distinct ra.pa at intervals of a second,
followed by a long continuous and extremely ra.pid tapping, at nearly double
the pace of a needle in a sewing machine, and yet each tap quite distinct,
without any resonance from the thin panel as a BOunding-board; thus, for
some four seconds :
o 0 0 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
I do not see how all this could be effected by natural or arti6c~ mechanical
means, un1eaa by elabora.te machinery, with a damper behind the point atruck.
I repeated the alphabet, but no resulta. At the time of hearing I was looking
atraight at the wardrobe, and the locality of the BOund seemed to be quite
unmistakable, and equally inexplicable from any natura.! cauae.
January 14th, 1883: 5 a.m.-Rapping near my bedroom window (not
loud, and not like the ra.ttling of a window).
February 24th; 4 a.m.-Awakened by a clapping BOund near table of
relica. Again at 6 a.ID. five loud knocks at my door. Called out, "Come-
in," but no one there. Servanta did not leave their distant rooms till 7.30
a.m. that day.
March 11th. 1883; 5 a.m.-Knocking near the head of my bed.
March 15th, 1883 ; 6 a.m.-Awoke as if by a small hand pressing my foot
very firmly. Same day, at 6. 30 a.m., a thumping at my bedroom door as if
by the BOft part of a doubled fist. No clue.
From March 25th till May 15th I was very ill from a purely physical
cause, and mostly in a semi-conscious or unconscious state. Heard nothing,
except once BOmething like the BOund of crying in a comer of the room. but
not very distinct.
June 13th, 1883.-Three loud cra.ahes on the wall at "a," the last of
which seemed to travel with the rapidity of lightning through the wall to the
front of the houae. The crashes were as if given by blows of a heavy
hammer, quite unlike any failure of masonry, and not a trace of anything of
the kind.
June 30th, 1883; 6.30 a.m.-Seemed to hear my own Christian name,
exactly in my late wife's natura.! voice, when in good spirits-not loud.
August 2nd, 1883.-Early morning (hour not noted). Four knocking
BOunds.
Digitized by Coogle
1889]. On Apparitions oC('tlJrring soon after Death. 483
August 11th, 1883.-Three knocks as above, quite diatinct, in lame bed
room.
August 13th, 1883; 5 a.m.-Heard again my own shortened name, as on
30th June previoua.
June 25th, 1883 ; 5 a.m.-Heard the clapping BOunda again.
September lat, 1883; 5 a.m.-H~ three dull knocks near front
windowa and table of relica.
September 4th, 1883; early morning.-Heard three BOft raps near the head
of the bed. (It iB remarkable how often three rapa--apecially asked for-
have been heard.)
September 28th, 1883; 3.30 a.m.-When quite awake-having juat
previoualy looked at my watch-heard six diatinct raps on the bedroom door,
rather slowly given, exactly like knuckle raps, at the uaual height of such
mockinga, and on a panel quite inexplicable by any poaaible natural cauae.
November 6th, 1883; 10.30 p.m.-Had juat got into bed. Servanta retired
at 10. Heard three BOft raps on a apare wardrobe, being exactly the BOund
that would be produced on Buch a panel.
February 4th, 1884.-&markable bell ringing, repeated Becond time,
within a few minutea of the only times when I and all the aervanta could hear
it. About 5 p.m. I entered the-"wash-room" D, being the only room from
which I could hear a bell hung at the corner of the paaaage to the aervanta'
room C, having the wire bell-pull in a braaa groove, just outaide my bedroom
door. It has only two bent levera, with very atrong aprings, the wire being
in Bight along the roof the whole way, except through the wall near the bell
itaelf (888 sketch). ThiB bell rang quite unaccountably and atrongly about 15
aeconda after I had entered the " wash-room." It could not have happened
from the uaual gentle cloaing of the door (15 seconds before), nor from any
gust of wind, as the day was a pretty atill one, and no windowa open any-
where. Two of the servants were in their bedroom C, and one of them came
at once, looking alarmed at the auddeneaa and loudneaa of the ringing at BO
unusual an hour, and fancying Budden illneaa on my part (in fact, I aeldom
ring any bell at all, and thia one had not been rung for the previoua 10 daya
or BO). On myauggeating it muat be the front door bell, the aervant took me
to the bell near their bedroom, where we found the tongue or clapper atill
vibrating. Knowing that there were no rata in the houae, nor any such
being able to touch the wire, I thought it poaaible that the bent levera, or
one of them, might have been left at "half-cock," as it were, even for 10
daya, from the knob-puller not having gone up quite home, but found it
impoaaible to arrange it that way, the aprings being too strong. I found aOO
that the bell would not ring at all unleaa pulled down nearly the whole way.
I then pushed the knob-puller home and left it.
Again at 9.30 p.m. on the lame evening, I entered the lame wash-room,
accompanied by a aervant (the lame who anawered the first ringing), with
hot water; and again, in about 15 aeconda, we both heard the bell, finding,
as before, the clapper atill moving with nearly full vibrationa. Two aervanta
in the kitchen below alao heard it, and one came up. Theae have been the
only inatancea of inexplicable bell-ringing in the houae. The two ringings
could not have been better timed if BOme one had been watching an oppor-
tunity of letting every one in the houae hear them as well as myaelf, and
Digitized by Coogle
484 On Apparitions occurring Boon after Death. Mar. 18,
the repetition, exactly und~r the same circumstances, seemed intended to
intimate that the first was no accident. Any trickery in the matter is out
of the question. They (the servants) could not even get at the bell-being
12ft. above tl.oor-to ring in that way, and are not inclined to ascribe the
ringing to ultra-mundane causes, without any further attempt at explanation,
beyond asking if I had slammed the door and looking unsuccessfully for
open windows.
As to any illusions or hallucination on all these indications, coupled with
every appearance of intelligent choice of times, varying localities, and
quality of BOunds-it seems most unlikely that six people out of seven, who
have been mostly in the house, should be subject to illusions, and only in this
house, or that I should have been subject to so many illusions (about 30)
during more than 20 months, and with nothing to induce any suspicion of the
kind in my past or present life. Taking all the indications together, they
seem to have been of a mutually supplementary character. (a) The sense of
hearing by one person chietl.y in one room-A. (b) Hearing (one loud rap)
by three persons, and one of them twice seeing an apparition, in apparently
very intelligent sequence, as if from an ul~-mundane BOurce-in room B.
(c) Exact timing of bell-ringing-twice-in apparently intelligent sequence,
as if intended chietl.y for myself, with three other persons also hearing the
same.
Assuming a fair share of reason and common-sense on my own part, and
going from effects to a poBBible cause, I do not see that my late wife (or
poBBibly some other, except for the description given by the child, and what
I seemed to hear of names), having certain limited powers, could have em-
ployed them more intelligently than has been done, [i.B., by a general com-
parison of the whole], for my particular conviction and comfort, particularly
as regards choice of times and variety of indications, all naturally inexplicable.
I have only the choice between this view and" inexplicable "~missing
the idea of illusion through BO many months. I feel as sure of having heard
all I have stated as that I am now writing with pen and ink. I have never
felt doubtful as to the BOunds heard (specially the crashes and rappings),
while the child mentioned felt quite as fully the fear, several times repeated,
that "that woman will come back."
H there are any further indications I will record and mention them in
continuation-say half-yearly.
I look upon the Psychic Society as a most important one, setting a com-
mon-sense example, on quite 8ufficiently good grounds, and the more 80,
considering the evidently great want of moral courage among many who
keep 8ilent,· including, of CQurse, many who cannot afford to risk their
profeBBional proapecta in the present 8t&te of opinion of many people, with a
further disinclination to give their hoU&e8 a kind of character which interferea
with rental and sale.
J. D. CAHPBBLL.
P.S.-I have forgotten to record that the" crashes" quoted under 13th
June, 1883, alao occurred two or three times jU8t before that date, i.e., on
previou8 nights, BOOn after I got into bed. More hammer-like-not 80 loud
-and at '10 other timBo I only wondered then. Also a case mentioned by
the servants as follows :-" We were sitting at dinner in the kitchen about
Digitized by Coogle
1889]. On .APP(U'UWnB OCC'U1")Vng Boon after Death. 485
1.30 p.m. when we were fairly startled by hearing a loud sound, as if a lot of
gravel had been violently thrown up against one of the windows (a high one,
some seven feet above ground level). We all went out, but could see
nothing; groom and workmen had left the premises for dinner."
These are old servants who saw the last of my late wife, attending the
funeral.
In this case also the time seems to have been chosen with interugence.
I have purposely omitted some knockings heard when people were moving
about the house and premises. J. D. C.
E. G. wrote to ask General Campbell whether it was poBSible that one
or more of the servants might have seen the paper w!pch he wrote on
November 9th, 1.882, asking for three raps ; and also whether the child
might. not have previously seen his late wife's dreBS, hanging up perhaps in
some wardrobe. The reply is as follows :-
(1) The written paper (in pencil) was written just before I got into bed,
about 11 p.m., and burnt about 5 a.m. next moming, before anyone could
enter the room, to avoid remarks by the servants. Anyhow, they could not
have made the loud crashing sounds by any means in their power, nor
knocked on the wardrobe at foot of my bed and in the room, without waking
me up, having a night-light buming all night. I am sure also that my
servants would never think of taking such liberties. I was always awake on
each occasion before the sounds came, except once as quoted.
(2) The particular dreBB and hat (kept as relics) were under lock in my
bedroom (which the children never entered, or had any object in entering),
with the key always in my pocket. The children were only on the "bedroom
ftoor to sleep, and always accompanied by the mother (chiefty) or the nurse,
or my own servants, both day and night. I asked the mother whether the
child could have seen any dreBS and hat like the unusual ones I had, and the
answer was .. No. She must have seen something," i.e., as a vision-twice
and differently. There was a steady intelligent consistency (not on the
surface), showing affectionate intention and caution, which the child herself
was not aware of, in the two consecutive statements, and which no child of
seven could have put together.
J. D. CAHPBELL.
Mr: Gurney and I had a long interview with General Camp-
bell, Oct. 4, 1884, and we carefully inspected the premises. The house
is an exceptionally solidly-built one, with extremely thick walls inside;
and General Campbell assured us that, since he built the house BOme
few years back, he had never known the wood to crack or start.
Digitized by Coogle
