{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 9348 4608 2749","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v5_circular_n3_april_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V5 Circular Number 3 April 1888","mylang":"de"}
CircUlar No. 111.
To lembers ud Associates of the Soc1ety for Psychical Research.
OIROULAR No. III.
19, BUCKINGB411 STIlBBT, ADBLPJII, W.C.
April, 1888.
The Council of the Society for Psychical Research deairo to expreu their
gratitude to Buch of the Members and Auociatea of the Society &I have up
to the present date contributed evidence, attempted experiments, or other-
wise aided in the several brancheB of work. At the Bame time they mUBt
expreu a Btrong deaire that Buch help should be offered by a greater number
of perB01lB. The Bucceu of the Society's work must largely depend on the
amount of collaboration received-on the number of centrea of observation
and experiment which can be established in this and other countriea.
The Council have reason to believe that lOme persons, poueuing evidence
which would be of value to the Society, have lately thought it needleu to
pro1l"er such evidence, supposing that the reality of thought-transference. for
instance. or of apparitions at death, W&l now sufficiently proved, and that no
further caae& were wanted. The Council wish distinctly to state that their
view is altogether different. In the Jint place. they hold that the value to
be attached to the evidence already collected must largely depend on its
continuous reinforcement by fruh ca&es of like kind,-obaerved with care
and recorded without delay. In the second place, BUpposing t'hat the
generalfac", say, of telepathy or of veridical apparitions, were even univer-
B&lly admitted, it would still be a matter of prime interest and importance to
discover &I much &I pouible ofthe law. which govern theaestrange phenomena,
and it is therefore impouible to auign any liIhit to the number and variety
of cuea which should be collected and registered with this end in view.
It appea.t"ll to th" Council that on the one hand certain needful canonB
of evidence in these novel inquiries have now been 10 far laid down that it is
now more BUY than at first for informants to present their teatiDiony with
Digitized by Coogle
ii OircttJ.ar No. III.
the proper aafeguardl of accuracy, and that on the other hand the ~
of the Society now includes a large number both of men and women well
fitted to render intelligent aid.
The experiments in thought-tramference given in the Journal for
December, 1887, and the experiments in aldomatic writing frequently pub-
liahed of late, may serve to Ihow with how little of preparation or trouble
(provided the work be done with complete good faith and care)
results of value may be attained. Experiments in hypnotiem require more
caution; but here Mr. G. A. Smith, an experienced hypnotist, with whose
name readers of the Proceeding. have long been familiar, will be glad to give
advice or inatruction. Peraona willing IiO experiment in any of these dirac-
tiona should communicate with the Hon. Secretary of the Society, Mr. E.
Gurney, 26, Montpelier Square, S.W. Mr. Gurney will also be happy to call
on members or their friends who may desire to communicate information
by word of mouth on any of the lubjects with which the Society deala.
Written communicationa may also be addressed to the co-aecretary of the
Literary Committee, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
The Council wish it to be distinctly understood that they solicit information
not only on those points (Iuch as apparitiona at death) on which much
evidence baa already been forthcoming, but also on other points included
within the range of their investigationa, elpecially the lo-called physical
phenomena of Spiritualism. On this lubject Prof8l8Or Barrett, 6, De Veaci
Terrace, Kingstown, Dublin, the Hon. Secretary of the Committee eatabliahed
by the late President, Prof8l8Or Balfour Stewart, will be glad to receive
communicationa, or accounts of caaea in or near London may be sent to Mr.
Gurney for immediate investigation. In conclulion, the Council would remind
the members of the Society that they have from its first inception, fOreBeen
and announced that an inquiry so novel, complex, and important must of
neceaaity be a prolonged one, needing the combined efforts of many persona
over a lpace of many years. While attaching great value to the reaaltB
already published, the Council feel that thOle who sympathise with their
object must be invited to frelh exertiona, if a progreaa at once rapid and
durable is to be made in a research whOle very importance and interest
increase the difficulty of conducting it with adequate circumspection, and
with due minuteneaa of care.
Digitized by Coogle
