{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 6458 9405 7607","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v5_10_may_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V5 May 10 1889","mylang":"de"}
4.86 Recent Expe,i'T1Umt8 in Crystal,-vision. [May 10,
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
May 10th, 1889.
The thirty-second General Meeting of the Society was held at the
Westminster Town Hall, on May 10th, 1889.
THB PRESIDENT, PaoPE880R SIDGWICK, IN THE CH.UR.
The President gave an address on the "Canons of Evidence in
Psychical Research."
The following paper was then read .-
III
RECENT EXPERIMENTS IN CRYSTAL-VISION.
[The following' paper is contributed by a lady, well known to
the Editor, who prefers for the present to remain anonymous.]
It is proposed in the following paper to.offer a short account of
some recent attempts at Crystal-vision, experiments in which, for
purposes of divination or clairvoyance, have been recorded from the
earliest ages. I should have been glad to proceed to them without
further preface; since, however, I have been unable to find in the
British Museum Library any English book bearing directly upon the
subject of Crystallomancy, I venture to prefix a few notes upon its
history and method. Though the information obtainable upon the
subject has, for the most part, no great evidential value, it is ne'-ertheless
historically interesting, for, just as the witch-stories contain the first
hint of hypnotic suggestion, now so familiar, it may be possible to
discern by examination and experiment whatever element of truth the
traditions of mirror-gazing may contain, and perhaps to apply them to
the elucidation or illustration of some of those questions of the sub-
conscious workings of mind, on which, in spite of great recent effort,
we have still much to learn.
Alike both in purpose and in method of use, and therefore for our
present intention to be classed with the Crystal as a means of divination,
were vessel:s containing liquid, usually water,-water in springs, mirrors
of polished steel, liquid poured into the palm of the hand, and various
objects having a redecting surface, such as the beryl or other gems, the
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] 487
blade of a sword, 1 and in Egypt, Persia, and in Europe in the Middle
.Ages---even the human finger nail.
With the use of one or more such means, we find that mirror-
gazing in BOme form has been practised for at least 3,000
years, and that traces of it exist in the histories of Assyria, Persia,
Egypt, Greece, Rome, China, Japan, India, possibly Nubia, and, in the
form of cup-divination, according to Captain Cook, among the natives
of the South Sea Islands. Ceasing to rank among manifestations of
Divine power, though as to its in1luence on the minds and actions of
those consulting it, taking a no less important place as the accredited
work of the author of evil, mirror-gazing aasumed a. new importance in
the history of Europe in the Middle Ages, reaching its highest develop-
ment in the 16th and 11th centuries, and finding its exponents among
the learned physicians and mathematicians of the Courts of Eliza.beth,
the Italian Princes, the Regent Catherine de Medici, and the
Emperors Maximilian and Rudolph.
It is interesting to observe the close resemblance in the various
methods of employing the mirror, and in the mystic symbolism which
surrounds it, not only in different ages, but in different countries.
From the time of the Assyrian monarch, represented on the walls of the
North West palace of Nimroud, down to the 11th century, when Dr.
Dee placed his Shew-stoile on a cushioned table, "in the goodly little
chapel next his chamber," in the college of which he was Warden at
Manchester, the seer has usually surrounded himself with the cere-
monials of worship, whether to propitiate Pan or Osiris, or to disconcert
Ahriman or the Prince of Darkness. In the same way we find that in
a.ll ages, and alike in Greece, Rome, Persia, Egypt, India, 11.8 well 11.8 in
later traditions of Europe, the seer, variously called Speculator, Scryer,
Viewer, or ~er, was usually a child, "who had not known sin."
Before going further into the history of the subject, it may be 11.8
well to give some account of the method pursued, which, 11.8 hll.8 been
said, is in all essential features the same under all circumstances j and
for this I ~lect the description given by Lane in his Manners and
CU8toms of the Modern Egyptians,2 written in Egypt, during the years
1833-4-5, which may then be compared with the traditions of antiquity.3
The curiosity of the author had been excited by Mr. Salt, the
English Consul-General, who, on suspecting his servants of theft, sent
for a Mughrebee magician. Mr. Salt himself selected a boy as Scryer,
1 .. Blade of a. sword, buckle, or other shining object."-Plin. Bilt. Nat., xxxvii. ii.
I Vol. I., c. xii.
I A gnoetio papyrus in Greek, said to have been written in Egypt ea.rly in the
Christian era., now preserved in the British Museum, describes a scene, in which
Divination wi~h the Bowl, under conditions very similiar to those of Mr. Lane's
story, fOl'lDll an euential feature.
Digitized by Coogle
Recent EJ.:perirnents in Cry8tal-vision. [May 10,
while the magician occupied himself with writing channs on pieces of
paper which, with incense and perfumes, were afterwards burnt in a
brazier of charcoal. After drawing a diagram in the boy's right palm
into the middle of which he poured some ink, the magician desired him
to look into it fixedly, when, after seeing various visionary forms
as directed, the boy finally perceived the guilty person, who, from
the description given of his dress and stature, was recognised as a
certain labourer, who, on being arrested, confessed his crime.
This incident prompted Lane to further inquiries, and on a subse-
quent occasion other results were obtained, and the proceedings are
described with greater detail.
First, invocations were written on paper by the magician, summon-
ing his two Genii, then a verse from the Koran "to open the boy's eyes
in a supernatural manner. to make his sight pierce into
what is to us the invisible world." These were thrown into a chafing-
dish containing live charcoal, frankincense, coriander seed, and benzoin.
A boy of eight or nine years old had been chosen at random from a
number who happened to be passing in the street, and the magician,
taking hold of his right hand, drew in the palm of it a magic square,
that is to say, one square inscribed within another, and in the space
between certain Arabic numerals; then, pouring ink in the centre, bade
the boy look into it attentively. At first he could see only the face of the
magician, but proceeding with his inspection, while the other continued
to drop written invocations into the chafing-dish, he at length described a
man sweeping with a broom, then a scene in which flags and soldiers
appear,1 and finally Lane asks that Lord Nelson should be called for.
The boy describes a man in European clothes of dark blue, who has
lost his left ann, but adds, on looking more intently, "No, it is placed
to his breast." Lord Nelson generally had an empty sleeve attached tQ
the breast of his coat, but as it was the right ann he had lost, Lane
adds, "Without saying that I suspected the boy had made a mistake,
I asked the magician whether the objects appeared in the ink as if
actually before the eyes, or as if in a glass, which makes the right appear
left. He answered they appeared as in a mirror. This rendered the
boy's description faultless."
Among the Greeks, various methods of divination by reflections on
glass or water were used. 1. Hydromancy. This was practised chiefly
at Patrre, a city on the sea coast of Achaia., where was a temple
dedicated to Demeter. Before the temple was a fountain in which were
1 It i8 perhaps worth noting that a lady mentioned by Lane-a friend of his own,
who was invited to act as Scryer,-also saw a man with a broom, that the same vision
is recorded by Dr. Dee. and that various accounts of Egyptian mirror-gazing, given
by Sir G. Wilkinson and by Kinglake, speak of flags. Cpo Account of Lord Prudhoe,
in Noctcs .Amhrorianre.-Blackwood, Aug., 1831.
igitized by Goog
1889.] .Recent Experitnents in Crystal-vision. 4S9
delivered oracles, very famous for the truth of their predictions. These
were not given upon every account, but concerned only the events of
disea.ses.1 The manner of consulting was this: they let down a mirror
by a small cord into the fountain, so that the lower edge might
jnst touch the surface of the water, but not be covered by it ; this done,
they offered incense and prayers to the goddess, then looked upon the
mirror, and from the various figures and images represented in it, made
conjectures concerning the patient. 2. Lecanomancy, divination by a
bowl containing water or a mixture of oil and wine. The Scholiast
upon Lycophron believes this method to have been practised by
Ulysses, and to have given occasion to the stories of his consultation
with the ghost of Tiresias. 3. Catoptromancy, in which mirrors were
used without water. Sometimes it was performed in a vessel of
water, the middle part of which was called gaster, and then the
divination termed Gastromancy (4), in which glass vessels were used
filled with clear water, and surrounded by torches. A demon was
invoked, and a boy appointed to observe whatever appearances arose
by the demon's action upon the water. 5. Onychomancy,2" performed
by the nails of an unpolluted boy, covered with oil and soot, which they
turned to the sun, the reflection of whose rays were believed to
represent by certain images the things they had a mind to be satisfied
about." 8 6. Crystallomancy, "performed by polished and enchanted
crystals, in which future events were signified by certain marks and
figures." .
We find still existing in India 4 a mode of divination with mirrors
(called" unjoun "-black lamps), which reminds us of the Greek
hydromancy, in which a child, gazing into a mirror, sees the image of
the sick person, whose recovery is in question. Indian magicians have
also another process, which resembles that practised in Egypt. Incense,
made after elaborate and careful rules, is burnt, and the remains
collected, which, after being moistened with castor-oil, are poured into
the hands of a child, who sees visions of spirits and demons.
Reinaud, quoting from an Arab MS., gives the following as the
method of mirror-gazing among the Mussulmans:-
H one is in need of something, he writes on the edge of a mirror the
names of Gabriel, Azrael, Raphael, and Aarsfel, with words from the Koran,
. relating to the Omnipotence of God. He then fasts for seven days of strict
retirement, and then, the mirror being held, either by himself, or by man,
1 Cp. Potter's AtItiquitita oj Gnece, VoL I. cxi. PaUll&niaa, vii, 21,12. Bouch'
Leclercq, HUimre tk fa Dimnatitm dam rAntiquiU, II. 255.-Del Rio, DVqui.l. Maq.,
Lib. IV. Quest. 6, Sec. 3.
t Boiuard, True. DifJ., Co v., p. 17.
• Potter's Antiquitw oj ~ Vol. I. cxviii.
4 Maury, La Magie et "A~ P. 433; cpo Herklot, MUI8IIlma" GM Hirwloo
MirTora, p. 375.
Digitized by Coogle
490 Rece'nt Experime'nts in Orystal-vision. [May 10,
woman, or child, no matter who, he recites many prayers, and is enabled to
see what he needa.1
It may be as well to note here that the ingenious mechanical
mirrors found in China, India, and Japan, the secret of which was
examined by Mr. James Prinsep, Wolff, of Berlin, and Sir David
Brewster, are concerned with purely physical magic, and appear to be
in no way connected with our present subject.
Reinaud also refers to a Persian romance, in which it is mentioned
that if a mirror be covered with ink and placed in front of anyone,
it will indicate whatever he wishes to know.
Pythagoras is said to have written on a steel mirror with human
blood, and to have made his friends read the message by the light of
the full moon, which appeared to reveal the message as a reflection
from her own surface.:!
HISTORY.
As has already been said, the history of cup and mirror divination
takes us back to the earliest ages. The art of divination, of which
this is one of the oldest forms, is ascribed to various sources.
..A!1schylus 8 refers it to Prometheus, Cicero 4 to the Assyrians and
Etrurians, Zoroaster to Ahriman, Varro to the Persian Magi,5 and a
very large class of authors, from the Christian Fathers and Schoolmen
downwards, to the devil.
There can be little doubt that the Cup of Joseph, "in which my
Lord drinketh andwhereby indeed he divineth,"6was one used for magical
purposes, thQugh there are some who tell us that even here the mis-
translator has been at work. The tradition seems the more probable,
inasmuch as cups having special properties figure largely in the
earliest Egyptian sculptures,f hll.ving a further symbolic reference to
Egypt as the cup of the Nile, and also to cycles or periods of time.
1 Reinaud, DucriptUm de. Monumenta MulUhnam du C'alrind de M. k Dttc de
lJlo.ctu. Paris, 1828. Vol. II., p. 9.
I .. The moon's orb is round just &1\ mirrors are, and there is a saying that tbOile
who are skilled in such matters can in this way bring the goddess down. There it.
too, a trick of Pythagol'&8 which is played by means of a reflector of this kind. When
the moon is full, if anyonewrites with blood anything be pl_ on a mirror and holds
it up to the mOOD, having previously bidden a friend to stand behind him, his friend,
looking intently at the moon's reflected orb, will read everything which was written OD
the mirror as if it had been written on the moon."-Scholiast's Note on Aristopbanes'
Nt.tbu, v. 750.
a .lEach., P~ Vindu., 492.
.~ Cicero, De Div. I. i. and I. ii., Clem. Alex. .r;'rom., i. 326.
B S. Augustine, De Cir. Dei., vii. 35.
• Greg. Naz. Works, Ed. BIlned, ii. 131 and Plin. Nat. BUt., "ii. 56;
Gen. xliv. 5-15; cpo Burder'8 Orimtal CtuWfM, p. 25.
7 Nineveh and iU Palaee., Bonomi, p. 265; Ed. 1852. Hivemick, Imro. 10 tAt
P~h. Cardan, De Rerum Variet, cap. 93.
Digitized by Coogle
r 1889.] Recent Ezperiments in Orystal-vision. 491
The Persian poets make frequent allusion to the Cup of Gia.mschid,
" in which could be seen the whole world and all the things which were
doing in it,"l and to the existence of which theya.scribed the prosperity
of their ancient monarchs. .
To the possession of such a vessel the Orientals a.scribe the wisdom
of Solomon, S and that used by Alexander the Great was probably of
like mystic properties.S
The sculpture on the walls of the Ha.ll of Divination at Nimroud,
already referred to, represents the king as drinking or divining in the
presence of the gods of Assyria..
The question as to the use and meaning of the Urim and Thummim
is one upon which scholars and theologians, rabbinical and Christian,
have hesitated in a.ll ages to pronounce a decided opinion.4 I shall,
however, venture to recu~ to this subject in another connection, and
for the present will merely add that the earliest and best accredited
traditions assert that the sacred gems worn upon the breast of the
High Priest symbolised light, and were probably of some colourless
stone, in which light was embodied in clearest purity, probably diamond
or rock crystal.6
Of the practice of mirror-gazing among the Greeks, we have already
spoken, and but little change seems to ha.ve occurred in the course of
ages, from what we learn from Pausanias, who, travelling through
Greece in the second century, visited Patne in Achaia., and witnessed
the practice of catoptromancy by means of a mirror suspended over
water, with the usual incantations and burning of incense.6
The instances of divination by mirror or crystal gazing which occur
among the Romans are so closely a.llied in kind and in method to those
of Egypt and Greece as scarcely to need special mention.7 Yarro tells
a story of a child who was consulted as to the war of Mithridates, 8 and·
1 Bonomi, p. 266.
2lJ'Herbelot LV. II Giamschid "( = Vaae of the Sun), Occult ~ 817. Cp.
Paalm xvi. 5; xxiii. 5; also in reference to its superstitions, Babylon spoken of lUI
• II Golden Cup," Jer. li. 7. Suchwas perhaps the cup made by Merlin. Fcurie
Quem, III. 2, 19.
• That a strong feeling still exists in the East on the subject of eup divination is
illUBtrated by the following :-" When Seringapatam was stormed by General Harris
and Sir David Baird, the unfortunate Tippoo Sa.ib retired during the heat of the
conftict to gaze on his divining cup. After remaining a long while in. profound absorp-
tion be rUshed desperately among the combatants in the breach, and fell there covered
with wounde."-E1IC1fC. Md., OccuU SciLfK%. Elihu Rich.
4 Kimchi, Aben Ezra, S. Augustine, and many others meet us with such expres·
IIiona lUI II Non constat," "NeecimUB," ..Difficile est invenire."
I EpUau to Ute Sewn Churchu, Trench, p.125.
• Paueaniaa. VII.• 21, 12.
7 Cicero, De mv., i. M.
eApuleiUB, Apolog. Co 41, Ed. Hildeb., p. 536. See also Cornelius Agrippa,
Ckc. Phil. B. I., cb. 57.
Digitized by Coogle
492 Recent ExperirrientB in C1'Y8tal-vision. [May 10,
children, we learn, were consulted by Fabius. It is also said that a
child foresaw by reading in a mirror the issue of the contest between
Severus and Tullius Crispinus, and revealed the prophecy to Didius
Julianus, by whom the oracle WM consulted. 1
We learn from Pliny 2 that in the arts of divination the ancient
Britons excelled even the Persians themselves, but. we have no means
of discovering whether any form of mirror or crystal gazing was known
to them.s
The arts of the crystal seers, or as they were called in the Councils
of the Church, "Specularii," seem to have passed, with but little
change except in outward ceremonial, from the superstitions of the
Pagan to those of the Christian.
Casaubon 4 tells a story of a Latin Christian who was frequently
mortified by seeing the opposite faction victorious in the games. He
accordingly sought out Hilarion, a monk of great piety, who put into
his hand a VMe of water, in which he saw horses and chariots, and
became aware that they were under magical spells. Hilarion dissipated
the enchantment with the sign of the cross, and his client departed,
giving thanks to God.
The Specularii, or those who inquired into the future with the aid
of a mirror, had a large following in the Middle Ages, and are mentioned
in the Councils of a Synod convened by S. Patrick and two others
about 450,5 which shows that the infection had spread as far as
Ireland.6 John of Salisbury, Bishop of Chartres 1177-1181, has left us
a list of procedures against the Specularii, who were looked upon as
heretics, and fell under the ban of the Church.7
S. Thomas Aquinas, writing about the same period, says that the
peculiar gift of seeing visions possessed by children is not to be
ascribed to any virtue of innocence or power of nature, but is the work
of the devil; nevertheless, in spite of S. Thomas and John of Salisbury
and a special condemnation from the Faculty of Theology in Paris,
1 Spartian Did. Jul., vii. ; BoucM Leclercq. Op. cit., Note, p. 841, Vol. I. "On
prenait un mirroir et un enfant y voyait I'image de l'avenir, non avec iIe8 yeux qui
etaient bandes, mnis avec Ie sommet de In tete, probablement 'enchant6.' C'cst de
cette f~n que Didills Julianus aPl'rit sa chute l'rocbaine, et l'avenementde Sth'ere,"
2 Hi.t. Nat., xxx., 13.
3 " n est probable que les druides tenaient d'une source orientale leurs doctrine8
sur la vertu des pierres, dont on retrouve d('s traces panni les traditions populaire.; de
l'Annorique et parmi relies des parties de la Grande Bretagne et de l'Irlande, oil I"
druidisme s'est conserve pluslongtemps. Les Ecossaisattachent encore une vertu par-
ticulillre II certaines pierres nommees cairn-gorm qu'on trouve dans leurs pays."-De
rusie, &i.encCII Occulte" II. p. 98.
~ Ad Spartian., c. vii. 250. Paris, 11',oa. Ed. Casaubon.
3 Brand's Popular Antiquities, III., p. 31.
B La Mayie rt l A,trologie, Maury, pp. 427-31.
7 John of Salisbury. Polycrat., I., c. xii., 21.
1889.] Recent Experimenta in Crystal-vis-ion. 493
1398, the Specularii continued to flourish,) and the art of mirror-
gazing lingered on till the sixteenth century, when it received a new
impetus, and soon reached its highest development, not in the hands of
obscure charlatan or nameless heretic, but under the auspices of a
Court physician or a University professor.
The time was at hand in which men began to think for themselves,
alike in literature, Politics, and religion; when, just as a nobleman
dared also to be a poet, a statesman to question a priest, or a country
gentleman to inquire into the Divine right of kings, so despite the
terrors of the Inquisition on the one ha.nd, or the prosecutions of civil law
on the other,2 men of learning, repute, and acknowledged position began
to inquire into the hidden secrets of natural magic.
At the time of the struggle between Francis I. and Charles V. we
are told that the action of the French was influenced by a magician,
who, by means of the reflections in a mirror, discovered to the Parisians
the progress of events at Milan.
A little later, we find Catherine de Medici consulting a magician,
who shows her by means of a mirror how long her sons would occupy
the throne. I have not been able to discover if the seer on this
occasion were, as seems very probable, Jean Fernel, Court physician to
Henry II., who has recorded S that he saw figures in a mirror which
expressed their meaning in gesture so significant that even his assistants
understood them.'
Fico de Mirandola (1463-94), himself a foe to astrologers, who
had declared his death in his 32nd year, was nevertheless "infatue
de la vertu des mirroirs constelIes, et assurait qu'il suffisait d'en faire
fabriquer un sous une constellation favoraBle, et de donner ason corps
la temperature convenable, pour lire dans Ie passe Ie present et l'avenir."5
Johann Rist,6 an accomplished mathematician and scholar, tells of a.
crystal made by Wisbro in Augsburg in which were seen men and
animals. 7
1 " Already (1456) were cryst&ls 1l8tld in England, and their ill8JlOOtion brought to
a acience."-Die SicAt6are und die Unllidtlbare Welt. Max Perty, 1881.
S .. En 1609 on brt\la en place de Greve Ie Sorcier normand Saint Germain, pour
avoir fait en compagnie d'une femme et d'un mtldecin, usage de miroirs magiqUe8."
I.e Jlm:ure j'mw;au, 1609, p. 348.-Wierus, PIeUdo·Monarcltio. Dremonu1a, Lib. III.•
Co xii. 6.
a Feme!, De Abdil~ Rerum lhlUi6, I., xi
4 Michael N08tradam'18 and Cosimo Ruggieri were Court astrologers to Catherine
de Medici.
D Maury, La Magie et l'A.troiogie, p. 431•
• ruet, a voluminous writer both in German and Latin, was the founder of a
literary llOciety under the title of the Order of the Swan. The _y quoted is one of
a aeries apparently published monthly, and containing much quaint talk upon various
eubject&-mathematiC8, medicine. verse, mWlic, magic -between himself and hiM
friends.
7 Die Aikr·EdcUk Zeit Verl-urtunll der ya7lZm WeU. ron dem BUllium, 1668, p. 253.
Digitized by Coogle
494 Recent Experiments in Orystal-viBion. [May 10,
Aubrey, writing in 1696,1 refers to the earlier practice of mirror or
crystal-reading in Italy. The Earl of Denbigh, he says, when
Ambassador at Venice, "did find one who did show him there in
a glass, things past and to come"; and Sir Marmaduke Langdale
when in Italy, went to a magician, who showed him in a glass a vision
of himself kneeling before a crucifix, at which he, being a devout
Protestant, was properly shocked, but the prophecy was fulfilled when
he later became a Roman Catholic. " He told Mr. Thomas Henshaw
this himself."
Bodin, ala.wyer of some eminence in Toulouse (d. 1596), and author
of works on demonology, gives a story of a fellow-townsman, who used
to divine by the finger nail of a boy.
It is interesting to note how universally the theory of devil-posses-
sion was held in regard to the stone, and even writers holding widely
different views such as Naude,2 Cornelius Agrippa.,s and his pupil'
Wier or Wierus on the one hand, and their opponents Bodin and Del
Rio 5 on the other, aU maintained the hypothesis, though they made
use of it for different ends. Pomponatius,6 Fernel, and the persecuting
De l'Ancre and his colleague Espaignol, also recognised a supernatural
cause for the phenomena.
We now come to the period of Dr. Dee, who perhaps the greatest,
is certainly the most voluminous exponent of the art of crystallomancy
in this or any other country. He is thus described by Hudibras:-
I've read Dee's prefaces before,
The Devil and Euclid o'er and o'er,
And all the intrigues 'twixt him and Kelly
Laseus and the Emperor would tell ye,
Kelly did all his feats upon
The devil's looking-glass, a stone ; 7
Where playing with him at Bo Peep
He solved all problems ne'er so deep.
-Part II., Cant.o 3.
John Dee was born in London, 1521, was Fellow of Trinity
College, Cambridge, visited the Low Countries in 1541, lived afterwards
1 Aubrey's Mt.«llaniu, pp. 129·30.
s Naud~ 1600-53, physician and librarian to the Queen of Sweden, author of
.A.poWgie pour la Grand. HUfM1I,U GCCUIU de la Magie. .
I See De lneut. et Yallit. &imtiar., cxxvi.
4 Wier, for 30 years physician to the Duke of Cleves, and of high medical
reputation.
G Del Rio, 1551·1608.
• PomponatiuB, 1462·1525.
7 Mr. Hockley considers the stone here alluded to, to be one which, having come
into the hands of Horace Walpole, was sold at the Strawberry Hill sale in 1842, and
which he describes as "composed apparently of a flat circular and highly pOlished
piece of cannel coa1, about 6 inches in diameter."
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] Recent Ezpe1'imen18 in Orystal-vision. 495
in Louvain and Paris, and returned to England in 1551, when he
became Rector of Upton-on-Severn. He was arrested under Mary, on
suspicion of being attached to the cause of Elizabeth, who afterwards
showed him much kindness,l and when in 1564 he left England to pay
a visit to the Emperor, and fell sick at Louvain she sent two doctors to
inquire into his condition. Later, Dee settled at Mortlake, where he
became famous as an astrologer, and where in 1583 his library of 4,000
books was plundered by the people.
In 1582 Dee became associated with Kelly, with whom he was
induced to go to Gemmny to visit Albert Lasky.1I 'He was afterwards
banished from Poland by the Pope's Nuncio, and in 1589 was reca.lled
by Elizabeth to England. Through the influence of Archbishop Whit-
gift and Lady Warwick he was appointed Chancellor of St. Paul's, and
two years after, Warden of Manchester College. On the accession of
James I. he fell under suspicion and himself invited inquiry into his life.
This was refused, and he retired to Mortlake, where he died in 1608.
His son Arthur, often mentioned in his book, was brought up under
Camden and became COurt physician to Oharles I.
His account of his various experiments may be read in a thick folio
volume, edited with a quaint and entertaining preface by Meric
Oasaubon,8 who belonged to the generation following that of Dee, a.nd
who examines the subject with much learning and care, though with an
amusing air of superiority and condescension. He seems entirely to
acquit Dee of the charge of charlatanry and imposture, which has been
brought upon him by some, for he says :-
I think no man will make any question but the poor man did deal with
all possible simplicity and lincerity, to the utmost of his understanding at
the time. And truly, this one thing excepted, his mistaking of evil spirits
for good, it doth not appear by anything but that he had understanding and
perfect use of his reason to the very last.
Dee's method differed so far from that of his predecessors that his
seryer or seer, Kelly, could not be described as "unpolluted," or "one
that had not known sin," for he seems to have been a well known
scoundrel, to which recognition the fact that he had been deprived of
both his ears, for some misdeeds in Lancashire, bore sufficient testimony.
The child, who seems to be a necessary member of the dramatv
pe'1'1JOf&(8 of crystal drama., existed, however, in Ma.dimi, one of their
1 .. Her Majeatie willed me to fetch my glue 10 famaas, and to shew unto heraome
of the properties of it, which I did; her Majestie being taken down from her horse by
the Earl of Leicester, did. _ lOme of the properties of that glaBa, to her Majestie'.
great contentment and delight."-Di4'11 of Dr. Dee, March 16th, 1575.
I Referred to by Hudibrall &8 .. Lescus. "
IlIlerio Oauubon, IOn of Iaaao Casaubon, ProfeBlOr of Greek at Geneva, wu a
acholar aud critic, Rector of Bleadon, in Somerset, d. 1671.
2K
Digitized by Coogle
496 .Recent Experim.ents in OryHtal-vis-ion. [May 10,
most frequent spirit visitors, with whom the story opens, and who is
thus described :-
A pretty girle of seven or nine years of age, attired on her head with her
hair rowled up before and hanging down very long behind, with a gown of
Sey, changeable green and red, with a train that seemed to play up and down
like, and seemed to go in and out behind my books, lying on heap8.
She was a bright, pleasant, little creature, anxious to make herself
useful, even to the extent of wishing to learn Greek, Latin, and
Syriac, in order to be helpful to Dr. Dee, and begging to be taught
to spell. She seems to have had a dull time at home, to judge from her
pleasure in the society of two old savants such as Dee and Kelly, but
it usually happened that just tI.S she was beginning to enjoy herself, her
mother, a somewhat ill-tempered person, carried her off to her domestic
duties, apparently the care of her younger brothers and sisters. They
had also some 20 other visitors, who appear in the crystal in endless
variety, from Angelicall Creatures and Spirituall Beings down to a
Divel of Hell. Dee seems to have had a theory that the Crystal or
Shew·stone was 1\ means of testing the spirits whether they were of
God, for he says they "had warrant that into the stone no wicked
spirits should enter, but without the stone ill-doers might deal with
them unless God prevented it." However, if it be true of spirits as of
men, that" by their deeds ye shall know them," one would hesitate,
after reading the history, to give adhesion to his creed in this
particular.
Some of their visitors are described minutely. One is, "A woman
like an old Mayde, in a red petticoat, nnd with a red silk upper bodies,
her hair rowled about like a Scottish woman, the same being yellow."
Another,-" A goodly tall man, aged, all in black, with a Hat on
his head."
We have also, "A youngman sitt.ing on the side of a ditch,"-" a
multitude of young children,"-" a thin-visaged man," and among the
Angelicall beings, Esmeli, Gabriel, Michael, Nalvage, Uriel, as to whom
Casaubon says, "Whether all Interlocutors I know not, because I do
not remember, neither doth it much concern."
They not only see these persons but hold long conversations with
them; the stone also produces other sounds, sometimes of a somewhat
disturbing nature. On one occasion, Kelly says, "I have heard a voice
about the Shew Stone very great, as though men were beating down of
mud walls,-the thumping, shussing, and cluttering, is such." Another
time we read, "It thundereth in the Stone."
The nature of the messages received is as varied as the style of the
messengers. The Angelicall Beings usually relieve themselves of a good
deal of " Sermon-like Stuffe," somewhat stale and thin in quality, and
with an affectation of originality, and an assumption of importance in
igitized by Goog
1889.] Recent Ezperiments in Orystal-vision. 497
their teaching, with which in our own day we are tolerably familiar at
the hands of our lady novelists. Madimi is a pleasant little chatterbox.
The Scottish Mayde was apparently" on a journey, too busy-wise to
stop talking," and somewhat offended by the persistence with which a
man, whom she met on her way, inquired, like another historical
character, "Where are you going to, my pretty Maid'" She answers,
"Belyk you are of kyn to these men,"-some others she had met,-
.. for they are also desirous to know whither I go."
However unsatisfactory Kelly 1 may have been in private life, his
sincerity with regard to the crystal seems fairly established by the
following story.
It seems that, if contemporary history is to be trusted, Kelly had
sold himself to the devil, who promised lie should live 1,000 years.
(He died at something like four-score.) Perhaps with a view to provide
for so long a career, Kelly was anxious to sell his accomplishments to
the highest bidder, and ungratefully left his master in the lurch on
more than one occasion. Once, however, his designs were frustrated;
though, by the way, I think the story ends in his receiving an addition
to his salary. There appeared, after the usual preliminaries of prayer
and self-mortification, "One in the very top of the frame of the Shew-
stone much like Micrui.el," and soon certain words are seen, which
Kelly, not understanding the Greek character, declared to be "Ghyl>-
brish." Madimi, whose classical studies seem not to have advanced far,
is of opinion that the language is Syriacke, in which she was supported
by Dee, "but this he said," adds Ca.sa.ubon commenting on the story,
"to jeer at Kelly."
However, the message, as translated by Ca.sa.ubon, runs thus :-
This fellow will overthrow this work His baggage is in a readineaa And
he doth very much endeavour To withdraw himself from this common
friendship Take heed that you give him no occasion For he doth mightily plot
by art and CUWling How he may leave you for ever.t
The descriptions given of the Shew-stone itself 3 a.re so fragmentary
and conflicting that Ca.sa.ubon is of opinion tha.t Dr. Dee had more stones
than one, which he accounted sacred, including the "Principal Stone"
1 W. Scott, afterdescribingthe uaeof crystals, writes: .. Dr. Dee, an excellent mathe-
maticia.n bad a stone of this kind, and is Did to have been imposed upon concerning
the spirits attached to it, their actionB and answers, by the report of one Kelly, who
acted &II his viewer. The unfortunate Dee was ruined byhis II8IIOCiates both in fortune
and in reputation." ~!I and Witchcraft, p. 339 1Ul.
I Kelly afterwards owned to Dr. Dee "that unle&ll this bad so faln out he would
have gone beyond the - . taking ship at Newcastle, within 8 dayes next," p. 28.
I Now to be aeen in the British Muaeum. It is interesting also to know
. that Dee'. library, the scene of his crystal visions, remains almost as he left it in Man-
chester College, difficult though it be to associate any hue of romance with a scene so
blackened with dirt and moneY-8'I;tting.
2K2
Digitized by Coogle
498 &cent E:r:periments in Orystal-'Ilieion. [May 10,
and "this other stone," and "first sanctified Stone," usual "Shew-
stone, and Holy Stone." In another place he says:-
The form of it W&8 round, &8 appeareth by lOme coarse representations of
it. in the margins (not given in edition of 1659), and it seems to have been of
a pret.ty bigness. It seems it. W&8 most like unto crystal, &8 it is called
IOmetimes Inapecto Chryst.allo,-nihil visibile apparuit in chrystallo sacrato,
pneter ipsius cryatalli visibili (ric.) formam.. . . It is a secret of Magick
which happily may be grounded, in part at least, upon lOme natural reason
(not known unto us), to represent. Objects (externally not visible) in smooth
things.
Of the history of the stone, or how it came into Dee's hands, we
can discover nothing. It appears in the very first scene, and is an
. important fea~ure in almost every part of the story. In a letter to
.Rodolph, Emperor of Germany, Dee says (p. 223) :-
The Holy Angels for these two years and a half have used to inform
me • • . Yea,. they have brought me a Stone of that value that no
Earthly Kingdom is of that worthinesse &8 to be compared to the vertue or
dignity thereof.
And in another place (p. 245):-
The Emperour, desirous to see the Stone brought to me by an Angel.
willed me to come to-morrow also to diner.
Casaubon, in the absence of inform"tion as to its origin, suggests
that the reader, if he please, may "find some satisfaction if he read
the maner how it was taken away and restored, very particularly set
down." Accordingly we tell the story (with some omissions) in Dr.
Dee's own words :_1
Not long ago there appeared a great flame of fire in the principal stone
(both standing on the table before E. Kelly), which thing, though he told me,
I made no end of my prayer to God. And, behold, suddenly one seemed to
. come in at the lOuth window of the chappel, right against E. K. (But
before that the stone W&8 heaved up an handful high, and set down again
well, which thing E. K. thought did signifie lOme strange matter toward.)
Then, after the man that came in at the window seemed to have his nether
parts in a cloud, and with spread-abroad arms to come toward E. K, at.
which sight he shrinked back IOmewhat, and then the creature took up
between both his hands the ,tone and jrafM of gold, and mounted up away as
he CBnle. E. K. catched at it, but could not touch it.'
How long they had to wait for the recovery of the stone we are not
told. They lost it on the 24th of April, 1587, and recovered it on
Friday afternoon, about four of the clock, under the following circum-
stances :-Dee and Kelly had been taking a walk by the" little River,"
and were returning home when Kelly
saw twain as high &8 my IOn Arthur, fighting by the River side with sworda ~
1 The italics are Dr. Dee'L
t Page 19, Second Part.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] 499
and the one laid to the other, .. Thou hast beguiled me." Then I at length
said unto them, "Can I take up the matter between you'" One Mid,
.. Yea, that you can." " In what is it 1" quoth I. 'l'h.en lJ(£id he, .. I Beut a
lhiflg to thy wife by my man, aud thia felloto ha.th taken it ffYYm him."
Then they fought again, and the thief being wounded produced the
stolen stone, and at the other's bidding, disappeared and on his return
was asked: "Hast thou laid it under the right pillow of the bed
where his wife lay yesternight t" after which they vanished.
And I, coming to my chamber, found my wife lying upon her bed, and
there I lifted up the right pillow upon which ahe layreating heraelf (not being
well at ease) • • • and there I found my precious Stone, that was taken
away by Madimi. Whereat E. K. greatly wondered, doubting the verity of
the ahew. But I and my wife rejoiced, thanking God.
One does not see why Madimi should be charged with the deporta-
tion of the Shew-stone, which had also other vicissitudes in its career.
On one occasion U riel appears, and after some preliminary "Sermon
Stuffe" says, "This is the last time any shew shall be made in this
Stone." However, the sentence is afterwards revoked, and the stone
.. dignified " by Nalvage, another, perhaps a rival, spirit. It was even
"marvellously brighter than before." Sometimes the stone, on being
consulted, gives no response, but remains "of his natural diapliinitie."
On one such occasion we gather a small detail, which reminds us of the
method pursued by a magician, Simon d'Achard, who was hanged in
Pa.ris in 1596 for the crime of mirror-reading, and whose pla.n was to
write down the questions to which he desired a.n answer, aild put the
paper awa.y with the mirror, in which the following day he read the
message for which he sought.lI Dr. Dee writes :-
Very long I prayed in my Oratory and at my deake, to have answer or
resolution of divers doubts whioh I had noted in a paper,3 and whioh doubts
I read over distinctly . . . but answer came t.here none, neither in the
Stone did anything appear, no, not the golden ourtain.. . • But I held
on in a pitiful manner.
The surroundings of the Shew-stone seem to have been a matter re-
quiring great attention. Even when on a passing visit to the Emperor
we find that an oratory is arranged, and " the Angelicall Stone set in
the frame of gold on the Table," and when at home, Dee frequently
speaks of the oratory or sanctuary, also of "curtains" and" a veil."
These curtains, however, are not to be confounded with another
1 Part n., p. 23.
I Story told by De l'Anore in L'Incri4uliM d Milcniance flu SortiJ.ege. Paris,l622,
p.774-
I On another oooaaion, we read that Kelly left written qUestiODB in his window
(p. SO;. "Nah'8p told him the devil bad now taken away his questiODL E. K.
went down to see if it were true, and it W&II true."
Digitized by Coogle
500 Recent Eape'Y"inn,mts in Crystal-"ision. [May 10,
II curtain .. often mentioned, which "a man would think at first per-
chance . somewhat outward, but it will be found otherwise, it.
was seen in the Stone, and appeared of different forms and colours." It
served in fact as a sort of drop-scene to distinguish between the acts,
and W8S sometimes superseded by " a ball or cloud of smoak."
But enough of Dr. Dee, whose book, however, I can recommend
as very suggestive and entertaining reading, containing much which is
unexpected, from what seems the first seed of certain modem theo-
logical heresies down to an early statement of the principles of Pepper's
Ghost. The results attained by Cagliostro were so similar to those of
Dr. Dee as scarcely to need special mention, though the fact that
Cagliostro made use of a carafe of water constitutes a slight difference
in method. Some interesting facts and illustrations of crystal-gazing
are recorded by Boissard,l in which we have the usual elements-the
mirror, incantations,and child seer; and oneof the instancesgiven is note-
worthy as an example of clairvoyance, rather than of the Spiritualistic
flavour of the Dee stories.
A man having committed a murder is fleeing from his country. On
the way he goes to a magician for news of his wife. Incantations are
performed, a child is called, and looking in a mirror describes a room, a.
lady, the details of her dress. She is flattening something in her palm,
and laughs and talks with a young man who sits by.
The husband recognises his wife, and the room she occupies, but
not the young man, and seized with jealousy, returns at the risk of his
life to a village near home, whence he sends a messenger to his wife
desiring an interview. The lady arrives much rejoiced at the unex-
pected meeting, and on being questioned, gives an account of the scene
described, which agrees in every particular, even 8S to the dress she was
wearing at the time. The mysterious young man turns out to be the
husband's brother, for whom she was preparing a plaster which she
flattened between her hands.
De l'Ancre gives a somewhat similar story also of a jealous husband,
to whom a magician, reading in a glass, describes a scene which induces
him to return home at once, to find that his wife had broken her arm
which had been set by a surgeon-monk, the sight of whom had caused
so much. unnecessary anxiety.2 Ben Jonson enumerates among the
tricks of "the Alchemist,"" taking in of shadows with a glass, told in
red letters." In a note by Whalley, Ed. 1811, we read, " i.e. says
Mr. Upton, letters written in blood, and he thinks it an allusion to ~
particular manner of divination with a glass mentioned by the Scholia.o;t
of Aristophanes in Nub. 760. I rather apprehend it an allusion to the
I BoiBaard, 7'rac. Dil'" cap. V. pp. 15, 16.
I L'JncrM,uJ,iU eC MilIcrMnce du SortiUgt, De l'Ancre, p. 257. Paris, 1622. Readers
of Sir W. Scott may be reminded of .. Aunt Margaret's Mirror.n
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] Recent Experirn,ents in Orystal-vision. 501
fortune-tellers of our author's day, and that these shadows were visions,
taken by a beril, which is a kind of crystal, they had used to look into."
A crystal at Nuremburg is often referred to by writers of the 17th
century, 1 in which a boy could read answers to any question asked and
by which an important scientific difficulty (we are not told of what kind)
was once decided. Unfortunately, the owner was seized with scruples
as to its use, and fina.lly broke it in pieces.
Among crystal-seers of importance in England after Dee's time, was
a Mr. Compton of Somersetshire, i said to be a physician of repute, who,
wishing to give proof of occult skill to a patient, Mr. Hill, asked him to
look in a mirror, which (without the usual prelinIinaryincantation, &c.)
he offered for his immediate inspection. Mr. Hill then beheld his wife,
who was many miles distant, "in the habit which she then wore, work-
ing at her needle, in such a part of the room, in which, and about which
she really was, as he found upon enquiry when he came home. Comp-
ton . . . was an utter stranger to the person of his wife."
To the same period belong several seers, mentioned by Lilly,S none
of whom present any special features of importance. He also gives us
a description of a crystal used in his time by a Mr. Gilbert Wakering,
"a beril, of the largeness of a good big orange, set in silver, with a
cross on the top, and another on the handle, and round about engraved
three angels' names,-Raphael, Gabriel, and Uriel."
A similar description is given by Aubrey,' of "a berill now in the
possession of Sir Edmund Harley, ~.B., at Brampton Bryan, in
Herefordshire." It was originally used by a minister in Norfolk with
a call, "afterwards a miller had it, and both did work great cures with
it." Fina.lly," it came into somebody's hands in London, who did
strange things with it, and was questioned for it, and it was taken
away by authority."
The "caW' seems to be the modem substitute for the earlier
incantation. Examples are given by writers of the time; one quoted
by Percy 6 is headed "An excelient way to get a Farie," of which the
conditions are :-
" Firat get a broad .quare crystal or Venice glasa, in length and breadth
3 inch. Then lay that cryatall in the bloud of a white henne, 3 Wednes-
days or 3 Fridays...
. And so on. Another, still more curious, quoted by Reginald Scot,6
1 Sprenger, Introduction to his Edition of Plutarch's De Dtfectu Oractiloru",;
Caaaubon in Introduction to Dr. Dee, and Bodin, FUtsu de. ~, p. 129, Ch. II.
I Soducilm1U TriumpMe1U, Glanville, 1681, pp. 202·3-4.,
I Life /MIll Timu of W'tuiam Lilly, 1602·81, pp. 1lM-5.
'llUcdl4niu, J. Aubrey, 1696, p. 130•
• From a MS. in the Ashmolean Museum. Probably the one referred to by
Aubrey as .. the call Mr. Elias Aabmole had.II
• DiIcmJerg of W'itcAcnJft, Reginald Scot.
Digitized by Coogle
502 Recent Experirrwmts m CrY8tal-vision. [May 10,
is called "an operation . • . to have a spirit enclosed in a crystal
stone or beryl glass." This was a work of time, demanding not only
"new and fresh and clean array," but the repeating of seven Psalma,
several long prayers, sundry operations with fine bright swords,
five days' fasting, and other tedious performances.
Lilly tells us of one Mortlack who had a crystal and a call for
Queen Mab. "He deluded many thereby." Once, on trying in
presence of a large company to no effect, he complained of adverse
influence in the presence of Lilly, who adds: "I at last showed him
his error, but left him as I found him, a pretending ignoramus."
Perhaps the latest historical example of mirror-gazing is that given
by Saint-Simoni, who tells in his Memoirs of a magician who predicted
to the Duke of Orleans the fate of the princes through whose death he
attained the position of Regent of France. The seer in th.;.s case was
0. girl, young and innocent, whose visions were perceived by means of a
glass of water. I
Some interesting examples of crystal-seeing are me6tioned by
Mrs. De Morgan,1 whose comments upon them are as follows :-
Crystal-vision is a well attested fact, having its laws and conditions like
other phenomena in this world of known and hidden causes, lI.nd a little
careful observation may clear away some of that obscurity whi~1b has kept
it &8 the property of witches and sorcerers. The Crystal . . .1 seems to
produce on the eye of the seer an effect exactly like what would e"lAue under
the fingers of a powerful mesmeriser. The person who looks at it often
becomes 8J.eepy. Sometimes the eyes close. At other times tears flow,
The following remarks. to the same effect are from La Ma.JU .t
l'A.WoI.ogi8 (Louis F. A. Maury, 1860).
Entre les principaux moyens de divination un grand nombre avait pour
effet de determiner une sorta de vertige, en agisBant sur les yeu'" et par
oonaequent sur Ie cervesu, apeu pm de la mAme f&90n que dans l'hypnotiame
Ie font des corps brillants. (p. 426.)
In one instance quoted by Mrs. De Morgan the percipient dwells
upon the fact that the crystal vision is not interfered with by the
normal vision, that she could discontinue her observation, occuPy herself
with other things, and return to find the scene as she left it. In my
own experience, on the contrary, absolute fixity of gaze is essential to
the very existence of the picture, which remains only so lo~: as'I can
continue without relaxation either of attention or vision.
We have already seen that there seems a probability that the
divination by the Urim and Thummim was in some way anAlogous to
that by mirror-gazing. I venture to quote in this connection from Dean
Plumptre who, in his article "Urim and Thummim," in Smith',
1 Saint-Simon, Cb. clxi.
2 F'tvm MaUn- to Spirit, p. 110.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] .Recent Experirn.ents Vn Ory8tal-vision. 503
Dictionary of eM Bilk, says in answer to the question, "In what
way was the Urim instrumental in enabling the High Priest to give a
true oracular response t"- .
In lOme way they helped him to rise out of all aelfiahneaa and hypo-
criay, out of all ceremonial routine, and to pa8II into a state analogous to that
of the later prophets, and 80 to become capable of a new spiritual illumina-
tion. The mod1l3 operandi in this caae may, it is believed, be at leaat
illustrated by lOme lower analogies in the 18811 common phenomena of con-
aciousneaa. Among the moat remarkable of such phenomena is the change
produced by concentrating the thoughts on a single idea, by gazing steadfaatly
on a single fixed point.1 The brighter and more dazzling the point upon
which the eyes are turned, the more rapidly is the change produced. The
life of perception is interrupted. Sight and hearing fail to fulfil their usual
functions. The mind passes into a state of profound abstraction, and loaes
all distinct personal oonaciousness. Though not asleep, it may see visions
and dream dreams. Under the suggestions of a will for the time stronger
than itaelf it may be played on like •• a thinking automaton."
Among recent examples of mirror-gazing some, at once the best
attested, as well as the most striking, come to us from modern Egypt. II
Some interesting remarks upon the question and its relation to the
phenomena of Mesmerism may be found in an article by Mr. Hockley,
in The Ewl (Vol VII., p. 251, 1849-50), and it is said, though I have
not been able to meet with any trustworthy account of the period, that
the subject attracted great. attention, especially in Lancashire, about
the middle of this century. 3 An intel"Elsting experiment, made in 1869,
has recently been recorded by Mr. Dawson Rogers (Ligltt, March 16th,
1889). He relates that he put a crystal into the hands of a lady, to
whom its use was quite unknown, who, after gazing into it· for a short
time, minutely described a scene, in which a lecturer, apparently an
Englishman, was addressing a foreign audience, while behind his chair
stood the spirit of a North American Indian, who seemed, to some
extent, to inspire his discourse. Some months later the lady was by
cha~ce introduced to the United States Consul for Trebizond, whom
I Cp. Maury, La Magie d l'Altrologi~, pp. 430-81. After speaking of onycho-
manoy and similar fol'Ul8 of divination by gazing, he adds: .. Ces moines du Mont
Athoa qu'on avait surnommee umbilicaiDB ou ompbalo-psychiques, et qui croyaient
...oir, aprils avoir longtemps contempM leur nombril, la lumillre du Thabor, tltaient
dupes d'une hallucination de m6me HOrte. • • • Cette aecte des umbilicaiDB pamt
d8D8 la premillre moititl du eeizillme sillcle. • • • La rondelle de mtltal ~ d'un
trou dont fait usage M. Phillips dans 888 exptlriences d'hypnotisme. rappelle la forme
de l'organe 11111' lequel ces moines fixaient leu,t'fl regards d'admiration."-Fleury, BiM.
Ecdb., 7. xcv. c. ix.
I In addition to works already referred to, 888 Butler's Court Life in Egypt.,
pp. 238-242-
a Crystal-seeing now very common,-a nine days' wonder of the Metropoli&.
Admitted 118 undoubted truth in Lancashire. Elihu Rich, Enqc. Md., 0ccuU Scierw:u•
•• Catoptromancy still found in many \·illagea."-Diet. 171femo1., Paris, 1863, p. 145.
Digitized by Coogle
504 Recent Experiments in OryBtal-viBion. [May 10.
she recognised as the subject of her vision, and who believed it to refer
to some occasion when he had given an address in that town. He ~
stated that other Spiritualist seers had given similar descriptions of the
Indian spirit.
An interesting little volume has lately been brought to my notice,
ViBionen im Wasserglasse, by Adelina Freiin v. Vay; geb. Grii.fin
Wurmbrand.
It is the record of about 90 experiments, extending over the years
November, 1869-December, 1875. The authoress tells us that they
were undertaken by the desire of her "Spirit Leader" (p. 3), who also
explains their significance. Except that I can lay claim to neither
" spirit leader" nor spirit visitants, and am responsible for my own
explanations, I find that the experiences resemble mine in many
respects. Frau v. Yay sees her pictures without distress or difficulty-
sometimes like photographs, showing light and shade only, at others
with their natural colouring, usually distinct. in outline, though some-
times as mere cloud pictures; at times they are only of momentary
duration, at others they remain some time, or melt gradually into
new combin&:tions (p. 4). The will of others does not influence
her visions-concentration of sight and attention is all that i&
necessary. The "Spirit Leader" speaks of such picture-seeing as
being as old as mankind, known to all the nations of antiquity,
though not in our own day receiving the attention it deserves
(p. 5). Though no attempt has been made at classification, I am
inclined to think some such arrangement as I have ventured to suggest
for my own would also meet all the cases in the record, which has been
kept in an orderly manner. Fran v. Vay dictates the description of
the picture while present before her to her husband, the "Spirit"
contributes the interpretation, and the fulfilment is afterwards added in
proper historical order.
ExPERIMENTS.
Those interested in such matters may perhaps be glad to learn that
several persons have lately made experiments with the Crystal, which
have been carefully recorded.
In attempting some examination of the result, I have for material
several cases which I am permitted to quote at first-hand, as well as
more than 70 of my own, of which I have kept notes, invariably made
within a short time (at the furthest, an hour) of the occurrence of
the experiment. Of these, I believe not more than two or three !,fe
of a kind to which I can assign no meaning, and even as to these I
think it quite possible that some explanation may yet be forthcoming,
several other cases having occurred, as will be seen, in which the source
of the message or vision was not immediately evident.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] 505
The experiences of the different percipients have sufficient resem-
blance to each other, and to some extent to those recorded in history, to
justify a provisional classification.
In the first place, we must treat the Crystal-visions on the analogy
of other hallucinations, assuming that the part played by the Crystal is
mainly to concentrate the gaze. This is evident from the variety of
the means employed, already in part enumerated, and to which
may be added many others which the imagination of the percipient may
suggest, the crystal having maintained its position of preference, pro-
bably on the ground of convenience. From my own experience I
would suggest a dark framed photograph, hanging on the same side of
the room as that on which the light enters, as very effective. The reflect-
ing balls, a favourite toy on a Christmas tree, which others have found
suitable, always strike me as reflecting too much, and in too grotesque a
manner, to be of 'use, and the same may be said of the back of a watch.
The Arabs and Hindoos sometimes use a cup of treacle, the Chinese
the palm of the hand alone; olive oil, lamp-black, and other liquids
have all, as we have seen, their place amongst the methods of Crystal-
seeing. The Crystal of the 17th century seers seems to have usually
been cut and polished and mounted in a ring, but was occasionally used
in its natural fonn. That spoken of as belonging to MI'. Dawson
Rogers is of the latter kind. A glass or Va&e of water serves every
purpose, but is obviously inconvenient to handle, especially if used in
the dark. I can also recommend, particularly for daylight experiment,
a good-sized magnifying glass placed on a dark background.
Assuming, then, that the crystal is used for the purpose of con-
centration, both mental and physical, we shall find that the visions
follow the main lines of other hallucination, and may be :
1. After-images or recrudescent memories, often rising thus and
thus only from the sub-conscious strata to which they had
sunk.
2. Objectivations of ideas or images
(a) Consciously or (b) unconciously in the mind of the per-
cipient.
3. Visions, possibly telepathic or clairvoyant, implying acquirement
of knowledge by super-nonnal means.
In seeking to illustrate the first of these three groups I hope to be
forgiven. if I draw mainly from my own experience, not only because
my own record is largely concerned with this class of vision, but because
such stories contain so little of the marvellous that they are practically
ignored by most writers on the subject.
The tendency of the conscious memory is so strongly in favour of
picture-making that we may naturally assume this habit on the part of
igitized by Goog
506 .&cent Experiments in Orystal-vision. [May 10,
that which is latent or sub-conscious. We notice this strongly in the
child, whose play consists for the most part of a reproduction of
tIOme "fragment from his dream of human life," and it becomes still
more marked among the uneducated, the grown-up children of our
civilisation.. One asks a poor woman after her rheumatism, or her
flower garden, or her grandchild, no matter what, and she inevitably
begins by telling you how on a certain da.y she was sitting, "as it
might be there," and a friend dropped in just as you have done this
morning, and so on--convinced that the assertion that the stones remain
there unto this day, is as convincing an argument to your mind as to
her own. The question often asked, "Is thought conducted in words7"
may present many difficulties, but we are all probably agreed as to the
tendency of recollection to the forming of pictures.
The revival of impressions or preeentations, says Mr. Sully, baa, as ita
phY8ioiogical condition, the modification of the centres in 80me way and the
production of a phY8ioiogical disposition. Owing to this, though excitation
of the centres can take place at first only through some peripheml stimu-
lation it may subsequently become independent of it. Milton mentally
picturing scenery after he had lost his sight, and Beethoven representing
musical sounds after he had 108t his hearing, are striking illustrations of
this 8urviving central effect of external 8timulation.1
Such pictures sometimes occur in the Crystal when I am looking
for something else, and may consist of a room I have seen during the
day, a glimpse of some corner of a house where I have chanced to call,
a sudden movement which has startled me, indoors or in the street, as
when a maid has surprised me with an unexpected service, or the dog
has run under a passing vehicle-something which has received but the
slightest notice at the moment of its occurrence, but which recurs in
intensest clearness when it presents itself in the Crystal. It is a matter
of regret to me that for the present I am unable to compare notes
upon this kind of vision with any other percipient, as one would be glad
to know how far it depended upon the habit of visualising impressions.
If, for example, I desire to describe a room in a friend's house, I return
in recollection to the occasion of my last visit; I once more occupy the
same chair, the carpet at my feet becomes visible, the furniture nearest to
my seat, gradually the whole contents of the room, till walls and ceiling
complete the picture, and I am able to give an inventory which would
not disgrace an auctioneer's clerk. How much this idiosyncrasy may
have to do with the clearness of my crystal-pictures, I leave to the
wiser in sucb matters to determine.
(No.7.) Here, for example, I find in tbe Crystal a bit of dark wall,
covered with white jessamine, and I ask myself, "Where have I walked
to-day 1" I have no recollection of sucb a sight, not a common one in
igitized by Goog
1889.] Recent Ea:periments in Orystal-vision. 507
the London streets, but to-morrow I will repeat my walk of this
morning, with a careful regard for creeper-oovered walls. To-morrow
solves the mystery. I find the very spot, and the sight brings with it
the further recollection that' at the moment we passed this spot I was
engaged in absorbing conversation with my companion, and my
voluntary attention was pre-occupied. '
(No. 62.) To take another example. I had been occupied with
accounts; I opened a drawer to take out my banking-book. My hand came
in contact with the Crystal, and I welcomed the suggestion of a change
of occupation. However, figures were still uppermost, and the Crystal
had nothing more attractive to show me than the combination 7694.
Dismissing this as probably the nUlpber of the cab I had driven in that
day, or a chance grouping of the figures with which I had been
occupied, I laid aside the Crystal and took up my banking-book, which
I had certainly not seen for some months, and found, to my surprise,
that the number on the cover was 7694. Had I wished to recall the
figures I should, without doubt, have failed, and could not even have
guessed at the number of digits or the value uf the first figure.
Certainly, one result of crystal-gazing is to teach one to abjure the
verb "to forget," in all its moods and tenses. Perhaps the time may
come when we shall relegate the waters of Lethe to the region of other
myths, which exist only for the Royal Academician hard up for a
subject, and try to endure the conjugating of some such verb as to
" dis-remember."
(No. 68.) To quote again from my note-book,-this time an instance
more satisfactory to myself. I had carelessly destroyed a letter without
preserving the address of my correspondent. I knew the county, and
searching in a map recognised the name of the town, one unfamiliar to
me, but which I was sure I should know when I saw it. But I had
no clue to the name of house or street, till at last it struck me to test
the value of the Crystal as a means of recalling forgotten knowledge.
A very short inspection supplied me with "H. House" 1 in grey
letters on a white ground, and having nothing better to suggest from
any other source, I risked posting my letter to the address so strangely
supplied.
A day or two brought me an answer, headed H. House in grey
letters on a white ground.
(No. 30.) The following illustration is in some respects similar. It
was suggested to me, one day last September, that I should look into the
Crystal with the intention of seeing words, which had at that time
formed no part of my experience. I was immediately rewarded by the
sight of what was obviously a. newspaper announcement, in the type
1 The entire wonl-une I know in DO other connection-was supplied.
Digitized by Coogle
508 Recent Experilrnenta in Orystal-visWn. [May 10.
familiar to all in the first column of the Times. It reported the death
of ala.dy, at one time a very frequent visitor in my circle, and very
intimate with some of my nearest friends, an announcement, therefore,
which, had I consciously seen it, would have interested me considerably.
I related Iny vision at breakfast, quoting name, date, place, and an
allusion to' " a long period of su1fering" borne by the deceased lady.
and added that I was sure that I had not heard any report of her
illness or even, for some months, any mention of her likely to suggest
such an hallucination. I was, however, aware that I had the day
before taken up the first sheet of the Times, but was interrupted before
I had consciously read any announcement of death. Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, with whom I was staying, immediately sought for the paper,
where we discovered the paragraph almost exactly as I had seen
it. We each recorded our own share in the circumstance and carefully
preserved the newspaper cutting.
(No. 71.) The following is a more recent example of word-seeing,
which depended upon, as I believe, a revival of memory. It had occurred
to me to write down some verses which I had once learnt some years ago
and which I knew I could not recover should I ever forget them. I had
no difficulty in recalling what I believed to be a correct version and was
therefore, at first, surprised to read in the Crystal, a few days later,one
verse, in which occurred the following line :-
.. Clear by the mountain torrent, and soft by the lonely tAm,"
which I had written, and certainly had long believed to be, "clear to
the mountain echo, and sweet by the moorland tarn." I believe the
former to be the correct version, not only because the antithesis was
characteristic of the style of the writer, but also because, as forming
part of a description of a voice, this edition obviously conveys more
meaning.
The question of association, as in all cases of memory, plays an
active part in this class of crystal-vision. One of my earliest ex-
periences was of a picture, perplexing and wholly unexpected (No. 11)-
a quaint oak chair, an old hand, a worn black coat-sleeve resting on the
ann of the chair,-slowly recognised as a recollection of a room in a
country vicarage, which I had not entered and but seldom recalled
since I was a child of ten. But whence came this vision, what
association has conjured up this picture' What have I done to-
day 1 . At length the clue is found. I have to-day been
reading Dante, tirst enjoyed with the help of our dear old vicar many
a year ago.
(No. 40.) One more illustration will suffice. We all know the mood in
which it is impossible to recall some face with which we are thoroughly
familiar. I have been speaking of M. and praising her beauty, but no
effort will bring her countenance to my remembrance. The crystal is
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] Recent Experiments in a'l'ystal-vision. 509
near,~ album containing her picture across the room,-SO I seek
what I want in the crystal. In vain; it remains, as Dr. Dee says, of its
~'natural diaphinitie." I make another effort, this time not to see the
face itself, but its counterfeit presentment. The Crystal shows me the
open page in my album, and the left-hand portrait, but that of M. is
covered by what appears to be the back of a photograph of a pinkish
yellow colour, lying crookedly above it, which refuses to move. This is
irritating, and I lay aside the Crystal and fetch the book. As I open it,
out falls the photograph of which the back vi~ had been presented '
to me, one which I had but a day or two before, promised to send to
a friend, a promise I had carelessly failed (I may not say forgotten) to
fulfil. There seems to be a curious struggle for supremacy between a
voluntary and a non-voluntary faculty, a claim, 8S it were, of duty
or conscience to have the first hearing. .
(No. 28.) Sometimes the latent memory is less certain, more confused
in its action, than in the cases above quoted. One day I had been seeking
a medical prescription which I failed to find among my papers. After
looking in many pla.ces, likely and unlikely, I concluded it had been
accidentally destroyed, and dismissed the matter from my thoughts.
Some hours later, without having consciously thought of my search
meanwhile, I was occupied with the Crystal, which, after presenting
me with one or two other pictures, suddenly showed a pa.per which by
its colour and general appearance I recognised as the one in question.
On further inspection, however, I observed, without being able to read
the words, that the prescription was in the handwriting, not of my
doctor, but of my friend E. As I have never yet found any Crystal
vision to be absolutely without meaning, or deceptive in a.ny particular,
I resolved to follow up this indication in the only way which occurred
to me, and finally found my lost prescription accidentally folded within
one of E.'sletters, where it had remained, I have reason to believe,
for more than four years. I may add that E. is a very frequent corre-
spondent; that this particular letter had been preserved quite by
accident, and that there was no possible connection of ideas, either of
time or place, between the two documents.
I give another illustration, of a rather different kind, of the same
process of confused recollection, in which the part played by memory,
though I think it undoubtedly exists, is of so undefined a nature that
at first sight the case seems almost to belong to the third group-that
in which we find trace of knowledge acquired by some kind of super-
normal means.
(No. 18.) A small key had been lost, by a member of the household,
to the great general inconvenience, and all other means having failed I
applied to the Crystal for information. All that I obtained, after
patient inspection, was a glow of red colour, which, as I had taken
Digitized by Coogle
510 Recent Experiments in CryRtal-vision.. [May 10,
eve.,y precaution against reflection, seemed meaningless, and so, con-
cluding that a mere formless shining, so entirely new in my experience,
could be merely an effect of weariness, mental or physical, J put the
Crystal away. The following afternoon I was playing at the piano,
paying no attention to what was passing in the room, when my ear was
caught by the sound of a click. Before I had consciously recognised it
as the snap of a purse, the red glow recurred to mind, and it flashed
across my thoughts tliat A., the loser of the key, was the possessor of 8.
scarlet morocco purse. Offering no reason, I begged to be allowed to
handle it, and in an outside pocket found the missing object. I ought
to add that, as it was all along supposed that the key had dropped
from its ring on to the floor, the thought of the scarlet purse was not 8.
likely coincidence, so unless it be assumed that the knowledge had been
acquired telepathically from the lady who had herself ~pl8.ced the key
where it was finally found, one is reduced to the supposition that I had
unconsciously caught some accidental glimpse of its whereabouts.
Readers of Du Prel's Pl'ilosophy of Mysticisrt& will be reminded
of m.any examples given of a like exaltation of memory,1 sometimes
associated with some circumstance of e~citement or stimulus, such as an
attack of fever, of insanity, or delirium,-8ometimes at the moment of
death,2 in a condition of somnambulism, or even in ordinary dream.
Du Prel says, for instance (Vol. II., p. 33):-
" The true cause mU8t be common to all those conditions, and is no other
than the disappearance of the normal habitual consciousness and its content.
Even the mere stopping up of the chief inlet of sense-impressions,
blindness, as it usually exalts other psychical capacities, can also awaken the
latent memory."
Is it an over-stretching of analogy to compare the pre-occupation
of the sense of sight by the fixity of gaze required for crystal-seeing,-in
so far as it is an occasion of " wisdom at that entrance quite shut out,"-
to a temporary blindness 1
We now pass to the second group (2) Objectivation~ of ideas or
images; and in proceeding with some illustrations of those consciously
in the mind of the percipient, I am glad here to be able to draw upon
the experience of others. In two cases the first experiment with
the Crystal resulted in a vision of this sort.
My friend T. had never handled or even seen a Crystal before I put
one into her hand, asking her to attempt to make use of it. The vision
1 A recent probable example of the return of memory is that familiar to readers
of the Proceeding, of the Society for Psychical Research, of Mr. Schiller, who pr0-
duced in automatic writing, passages in the Provpno;al dialect, which he was not aware
of having ever seen or heard before.
2 It is interesting to find this fact noticed by a writer of the 17th century.
.. Men I!Ometimee at the hour of their departure do speak and re&IIOD above them·
aelves."-Beliqio Medici, xi.-8ir Thomas Browne. 1642.
igitized by Goog
1889.] Recent Experiments in Orystal-viaion. 511
which shortly presented itself was a face which, at first indistinct,
gradually became clearer, till she was able to recognise it as that of a
friend whom she had lately nursed in a fatal illness, and who, though
not actually in her thoughts at the moment, was no doubt an ever
present memory. In the same way G. on her first inspection of the
Crystal saw the outline of a sheeted corpse which, without seeing the
face, she felt assured was that of a near relative whose serious illness
was a subject of deep regret to herself and her friends.!
Speaking for myself, though I sometimes deliberately and inten-
tionally call into the Crystal the creatures of my fancy, this reproduc-
tion of the more familiar subjects of recent conscious experience is
very unusual with me, perhaps for the same reason that my remembered
dreams are never,~ntrary, I believe, to theory,-concerned with the
thoughts and events of the past day, the surroundin~rs of daily life,
seldom even with the friencls about'me ;-though if they go from home
I at once have the pleasure of their presence in dreamland.
Just as a fanciful child will tell itself a story, I sometimes in a
moment of idleness create a group of figures a.nd put them in the
Crystal to see what they will do, and so far is one's con8cious a stranger
to one's unconsciou8 Ego, that I sometin.tes find their little drama 80
startling and unexpected that I watch the scene with curiosity and
surprise.
I am unable to quote directly from the Crystal any example of this
sort of vision, in"any way worth the spaCe it would occupy, but as it
has already been submitted that the nature of the means used for
concentration of gaze is of little consequence, I venture to su~join the
following.
I had been discussing with a friend the motto, "Noblesse oblige,"
and mainly for the sake of argument had supported the theory that the
conduct illustrating the principles it involved was more likely to be an
hereditary tendency than the result of external surroundings. The
same evening, while sitting at the piano in the firelight, I had wovep
- into my music a story in support of my argument, and had reached the
climax, where the hero, having sacrificed all he most cared for, for the
sake of his principles, was about to be re-instated in the opinion of his
friends by the good offices of one who had appreciated the real heroism
which underlay all the apparent inconsistencies of his career. I had
conjured up a vivid picture,-the stately mansion, the group of friends
gathered on the terrace, the distinguished officer who pleads the cause
of the cast-off son of the house, the young man himself in whose
countenance pride and affection struggle for the mastery. Just then,
1 I am not aware that either friend haa since had any unpleasant"Vidion of the
kind.
2L
Digitized by Coogle
512 Recent Experiments in Crystal-'1Jis'Wn. [May 10,
a flame suddenly shooting up from the wood on the hearth showed me
the picture I had imagined, reflected upon the polished front of the
piano,l--ca.rrying out my fancy with detailed exactness, except in one
particular. The officer is dressed for riding, and his horse is held in
the background by the hero himself in the dress of a private soldier,
suggesting, as a better illustration of my theory, that he should be
brought triumphantly through scenes of coarse' temptation and an
atmosphere of lower aims.
So far as crystal-vision is a revelation of one's unconscious self, it
does not, so far as my experience goes, administer greatly to one's self-
esteem. . So grotesque and commonplace are the ideas which float to
the surface, that one is tempted to be thankful for the silence of the
"songs unsung." I give as illustration one or two, always with 'apology
for their very trivial nature.
(No. 26.) I find in my note-book a memorandum of August 3rd, as
to a vision of a comer of a room with a red carpet, and walls decorated
in stripes of pink, white, and green, for which for many months I was
unable to account. Only a few days ago I called on a friend whom I
had not visited since July, and whose house had, I observed, been newly
and handsomely decorated. A letter which she had written to me before
leaving town in the summer was by chance referred to, and on
returning home I sought it in order to settle a disputed point, and
found th/lt it was dated August 2nd and contained the information
that her staircase had been painted and "looked at present like a.
NeapOlitan ice." This, I doubt not, supplied the colouring of my
picture.
(No. 63.) On March 9th I saw in the Crystal a rocky coast, a rough
sea, an expanse of sand in the foreground. As I watched, the picture
was nearly effaced by that of a mouse, so large that I could see only a bit
of cliff above his tail. Two days later, I was reading a volume of
poetry which I remembered having cut open, talking the while, certainly
not consciously reading, on the day of my vision. As I turned o'-er
the leaves a couple of lines struck me as somehow familiar, though the
book, a volume by Aldrich, was quite new to me.
" Only the Be8 intoning,
Only the wainscoat mouse."
These I imagine suggested the images.
(No. 74.) The remaining example was of a more practical kind. On
March 20th, I happened to want the date of Ptolemy Phila.delphus, which
1 The writer of an article in. Rlad."1fKJ(J(/,'8 MtJ{Jazine upon ..Georges Sand," tells UtI :
.. She 1188d to seat herself at her mother's feet before the fire, gazing into an old fire-
screen oovered with green. In that fire-screen marvellous pictures would design
themselves, as they were said to do in the pool of ink in the palm of the Egyptian
sorcerers. • • • She shut her eyes and she saw it all still; when she opened them
it was nowhere visible but on the fire-screen."-Rlad;toood, Vol. CXXI., p. 76.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] .Recent Experimenta in OrY8tal-vision. 513
I could not recall, though feeling sure that I knew it, and that I
associated it with some event of importance. When looking in the
Crystal some hours later, I found a picture of an old man with long
white hair and beard, dressed like a Lyceum Shylock, and busy writing
in a large book with tarnished massive clasps. I wondered much who
he was, and what he could possibly be doing, and thought it a good
opportunity of carrying out a suggestion which had been made to me,
of examining objects in the crystal with a magnifying glass. The glass
revealed to me that myoid gentleman was writing in Greek, though
the lines faded away as I looked, all but the characters he had last
traced, the Latin numerals LXX. Then it flashed into my mind that
he was one of the Jewish Elders at work on t~e Septuagint, and that
its date, 277 B.C., would serve equally well for Ptolemy Philadelphus !
It may be worth while to add, though the fact was not in my conscious
memory at the moment, that I had once learnt a chronology on a
mnemonic system which substituted letters for figures, and that the
memoria technica for this date, was "Now Jewish Elders indite a
Greek copy."
It is easy to see how visions of this kind, occurring in the age of
superstition, almost irresistibly suggested the theory of spirit-visitation.
The percipient, receiving information which he did not recognise as
already in his own mind, would inevitably suppose it to be derived from
some invisible and unknown source external to himself. The use of
the magnifying glass is a suggestive test of the degree of independence
of the stratum of thought revealed by the Crystal, but obviously it
cannot be readily or usefully applied except' in a few instances where
the object perceived is of a kind to admit of minute inspection.
Unfortunately, the suggestion of its use was made to me bu,t recently,
so that I have had but two or three opportunities of applying it, but
on each occasion with the result of acquiring additional information.
The messages, conveyed from one stratum of consciousnses to another
a.re indeed sometimes such as to mystify the percipient. 1
An experience of this kind occurred in }Iarch, 1886, to Miss Z., a
lady known to Mr. Myers, who has shown me the transcribed message.
A number of letters appeared to her in the crystal, each letter seen
1 Nicetaa, (Afidron. Clm&n., II. 9.) relates that the Emperor Andronicua Comnenus
bad recoU1'll8 to Lethoa, a diviner by hydromancy, in order to dve the question who
WlI8 to be his SUCCllllllOr, his intention being to defraud the revelation of its due by
iDBtantly destroying the pel'8On indicated. The water showed the letters S I, and upon
beingfurther qUlllltioned as to the periodof hi. su_ion denoted, •• before the Feast of
the Exaltation of the Cross.,,' The prediction was verified, for within the time named
Iaaa.c Angelus had succeeded to power, and Andronicua had been torn in pieces by
his infuriated subjects. Elihu Rich, commenting on this story, tells us that "the devil
spells as herecitetltheLord'. Prayer backwards. S I, wheninverted, would fairly enough
represent 11I8&C according to all laws of magic."-Op. cit., p. 318. Cpo case of
Kelly, already quoted, reading in Greek lettel'll.
2L2
Digitized by Coogle
514 Recent Experi'numts in CryStal-MO'1/,. [May 10,
separately, of a bright red colour. At first they seemed to be absolutely
meaningless, but it was at length discovered that they composed words,
spelt backwards, in the following fashion :-
de tnawae n 0 e m 0 s 0 tn ioj a e ta vi rpe lc ric ts
um eb gnilliwotevigsevlesmehtpuotehtt
c e j bu s
and the message at length became intelligible :-
Wanted a someone to join a private circle, must be willing to give them-
selves up to the subject.
In illustrating the third group, visions clairvoyant or telepathic,
1 have but few instances of my own from which to select examples. It
would be easy to draw from a very large number of recorded ca.ses; but
as in this connection, even more than in our former examples,
everything depends on the evidence, a large proportion of those which
have come down to us are practically without value. However, I
select a few, as fairly typical of the class.
For many rea.sons,-the gratification of a taste for the marvellous,
the immediate possibility of testing their accura.cy,-the greater
interest to the on-looker,-the demand for something beyond the
purely subjective,-the clairvoyant vision is that with which the
greater number of seers seem to have been in a.ll ages concerned. The
fate of the sick, the detection of robbers, the recovery of stolen goods,
the conduct of absent friends-some such question is the motifof the
scene, let who will be the players.
Some recent cases have been already given from Lane's Modern
Efl!JPtians, with which we may compare the account given of a similar
scene by Sir Grant Wilkinson.1 The mis6-et1r8Cene is exactly as before-
the boy, the magician, the perfumes, brazier, magic square, invocations,
just the same probably as at any time for some hundreds or thousands
of years. But the result was not satisfactory. Lord Fitzroy Somerset
and the Queen were asked for, and the latter described by the seer as
wearing black trousers and shoes, a white hat, red coat, black waist-
coat, having whiskers, and presenting a glass tumbler.
Lord Nugent,2later, says that not one image evoked bore the sma.llest
resemblance to the person asked for. The same author accounts for
the success of the magician interviewed by Lane by saying that though
known as Osman Effendi, he was really a Scotchman and may therefo~
be supposed to have had some sort of traditional acquaintance with the
persons asked for, which he conveyed to the boy by means of leading
questions. It is, however, fair to remember that Lane's experiences
were not confined to dealings with one magician only. Sir Grant
1 Modem EgyptiafUl, Sir G. Wilkinson, Vol. I. 218-23. Similar accounts are given
by Reinaud, IklCriptitm du (Jabind BUmu, p. 401.
2 Nugent, Landa (JUu,ical and Saered, pp. 134·6.
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] Recent Experiments in Crystal-vision. 515
Wilkinson, determined to avoid all chance of collusion, sent for a boy
from a distance, and the evocations were all failures of the most
ludicrous type, upon which the magician accused the young 'seer of
lying, which, says Lord Nugent, "was no doubt true, but not the cause
of the ill success."
One or two typical cases, in addition to some already given, may
suffice for illustration before proceeding to such as have resulted from
recent experiment.
A story told by Rist 1 belongs rather to that class of prophecies
which tend to their own fulfilment. A girl, whose parents refused
their sanction to her betrothal, interviewed an old woman who volun-
teered to show her in the Crystal how far her hopes of happiness were to
be fulfilled. The girl, afraid to be left alone with the witch, induced Rist
to be present·at the interview, which he was thus enabled to describe
at first-hand. The usual elaborate ceremonies were performed, and the
crystal, wrapped in a yellow handkerchief, placed on a green bowl,
which rested on a blue cloth decorated with pictures of dragons. The
incantations completed, Rist and the girl are permitted to inspect the
Crystal, in which they see the girl herself, attired as a bride, pale and
timid, accompanied by her lover, also pale, wearing top-boots with
spurs, and carrying pistols. The seers turn faint with fear, and the
old woman hurries away, but they would indeed have been dull of
imagination had not the story ended, as it did, with' a runaway
marriage.
The same explanation, a tendency of prophecies of this kind to
suggest their own fulfilment, may be found also in a story told by Lilly.2
A certain Dr. Hodge had a Crystal, which his partner John Scott
wished to inspect, so the two went into a field near home, and Hodge,
pulling out the crystal, bade his friend describe what he saw.
"I see," said Scott, "a ruddy-complexioned wench in a red waistcoat
drawing beer." Hodge:" She must be your wife." Scott answered,
"Nay, for he should marry a tall woman in London." Hodge answered,
"he would not, but would marry the woman he now saw," and Hodge
was right, for Scott soon found the tall lady had thrown him over, and
after remaining disconsolate for two years he accidentally saw and
recognised in an inn in Canterbury, the ruddy-complexioned wencl~
drawing ale, whom he of course ultimately married.
I now proceed to offer some examples from my own note-book,
beginning with three, as to which telepathy seems to offer a very
plausible explanation.
(No. 23.) On the evening of Saturday July 28th, 1888, the Crystal
1 Op. cit., pp. 255·59.
2 Lilly, Life and Tima, p. 117.
516 &cent Experiments in OrystaJ,-vision. [May 10,
presented me with a picture of a medieval saint, carrying a rabbit. This
I recognised as representing a stained glass window at a church in the
I!eighbourhood, which I visit perhaps two or three times in a year,
always sitting within view of this window. As I had not been there
for many months, nor consciously pictured the spot since my last visit,
I was puzzled to account for the vision. Early the next morning on
waking I observed on my table a letter, which had probably lain there
unnoticed the previous evening and which I found contained a request
that I would, if possible, attend the early service at the church in ques-
tion that morning.
The friend from whom this request came was an inviilid who had
come·to London the day before for medical treatment, whom I had
believed unable to leave his room, and from whom I had certainly not
expected to receive any such message. In fact this attendance at
church, which he then believed to be possibly his last, was only by special
permission of the doctor and he did not leave his room again for
between two and three months.
(No. 55.) ~ Monday evening, February 11th, I took up the Crystal,
with the deliberate intention of seeing in it a figure, which happened to
occupy my thoughts at the moment, but I found the field pre-oocupied
by a small bunch of daffodils,-a prim little posy, not larger than might
be formed by two or three fine heads. This presented itseH in various
positions, in spite of my hurry to be rid of it, for I rashly concluded
my vision to be a consequence of my having the day before seen, on a
friend's dinner table,the first daffodils of the season. The resemblance
was not complete, for those I had seen were loosely arranged and
intermixed with ferns and ivy, whereas my crystal-vision had no
foliage, and was a compact little bunch. It was not till Thursday,
14th, that I received, as a wholly unexpected c. Valentine," a painting,
on a blue satin ground, of a bunch of daffodils, corresponding exactly
with my crystal picture, and learnt that the artist had spent some
hours on Monday, previous to my lision, in making studies of the
flowers in various positions.l
1 Readers ot Pl&afIttufI&IJ oj Ut,e Lif1ing may remember a cue [I., p. 255 where Mr.
Keulemane _ in hiB mind's eye a wicker basket of rather peculiar eggs, which, u it
turned out, precisely resembled a basket of eggs which a friend at that moment ...
sending off to him. Mr. Keulemane sayB of these mental picturee: ..There is no
attempt on my part to conjure them up--on the contrary, they come quite suddenly
and unexpectedly, binding my thoughts so fixedly to the subject u to render all
external influences imperceptible." It would seem u though Mr. Keulemane (a pro-
feBBional draughtBman of noted accuracy) were able to get definite picturee transferred
from the uncollBciouB region of the mind without needing a crystal to aid in their
fixation. In the American S.P.R. Proc. IV., p. 515, two aomewhat similar _..."
given by II Mrs. J. G. W.," of whom ProfeBBOr Royce speaks (p. 526) u of a valued
OOlTeBpOndent. I abbreviate the C8IIeB. .. About two years ago, u I sat in the t.ck
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] Recent Experiments in CrY8tal-vis-ion. 517
(No. 64.) On Saturday, March 9th, I had written a somewhat
impatient note to a friend, accusing her of having, on her return from
a two months' absence on the Continent, spent ten days in London with-
out paying me a visit. I was not, therefore, surprised when on Sunday
evening she appeared before me in the Crystal, but could not under-
stand why she should hold up, with an air of deprecation, what appeared
to be a music portfolio. On Monday I received an answer, written the
previous day, pleading guilty to my charge, but urging, in excuse, that
she was attending the Royal Academy of Music, and was engaged
there during the greater part of every day. This intelligence was to
the last degree unexpected, for my friend is a married woman, who has
never studied music in any but amateur style, and who, according to
the standard of most ladies of fashion, had "finished her education"
some years ago. I have since ascertained that she, in fact, carries a
portfolio corresponding with the sketch I made of that seen in the
vision.1
I now add, also from my own experience, two further instances, for
which, as it seems, telepathy affords no explanation, as to which I have
no theory to offer, and which I can only leave to the reader to
interpret as clairvoyance, or coincidence, or prevision, or whatever else
he will.
(No. 36.) In January last I saw in the Crystal the figure of a man
crouching at a small window, and looking into the room from the outside.
I could not see his features, which appeared to be muffled, but the crystal
was particularly dark that evening, and the picture being an un-
pleasant one, I did not persevere. I concluded the vision to be a result
of a discussion in my presence of the many stories of burglary with
of the carriage, I saw, as it were, in the air, numberless pansies which appeared
succeeaively, and which I studied in detail as they floated in vision before me. Or
reaching home I found a large basket containing pansies which had been left for me
by a friend, and which included very many of the peculiar pansies which I had seen
in vision on my way home."
"On another ooca.sion [when similarly driving] I saw a sUOOO88ion of flowers
called bachelors' buttons. On reaching home I found that a large dish of bachelors'
buttons had been left for me by a friend. and every distinctive colour that I had seen
photographed in the air had its representative flower awaiting me."
I am glad to find these parallels to the triviality of my own crystal·visions; and I
would suggest that if-as one hopes may be the ca.se---it becomes the gtlneral rule to
m dQl/In ~ford&and any inlage of this kind which is thought to have" psychical "
significanee, then the record will be made easier if the images are deliberately looked
for in the crystal. and thus distinguished from other more fleeting acts of inward
visualisation. It remains, I suppose, to be seen whether such images insist on
choosing their own time, or can be "called from the vasty deep" of the crystal at
hours appointed for the experiment.
1 Perhaps I may here mention a case, given in the Procu:ding. of the American
S.P.R., Part IV., p. 467, which, though no t:r!l8tal was concerned in it, seems to me to
be curiously parallel to this IIJIIall experience of my own. I abridge the narrative. A
Mrs. M. L. M. writes that she was anxiou8 to see a Mr. H., but was uncertain on
518 Rece-nt Experiments in Crystal-vision. [May 10
which the newspapers had lately abounded, and reft.ected with a passing
satisfaction that the only windows in the house divided into four panes
as were those of the Crystal-picture, were in the front attic and almost
inaccessible. Three days later a fire broke out in that very room,
which had to be entered from outside through the window, the face of
the fireman being covered with a wet cloth, as a protection from the
smoke which rendered access through the door impossible.
(No. 39.) A week later I had gone to my room for the night, after
performing some small services for an invalid member of the household
whom I had left comfortably settled, if not asleep. I was somewhat
surprised when the Crystal showed me the same friend, sitting up in
bed, and apparently in a state of alarm. As she is by no means a
nervous person, and her illness was the temporary effect of cold, I could
not account for the picture, but was sufficiently alarmed to provide
myself with a book and await events, instead of myself going to bed as
I had intended. About an hour and a half later I heard the rush
of fire engines, and cries of "fire," and remembering our recent
misfortune went to the door of my friend's room to ascertain whether
she were startled by the commotion. Hearing her call my name I
entered the room and found her sitting up in bed, much alarmed at
having been aroused from sleep by so near a reminder of the enemy
with which we were now familiar. It may be worth while to mention
that as she showed no excitement whatever on the occasion of the
.immediate danger, I could not have anticipated any fear at that
which was merely threatened. .
All who, either in their own experience or in that of others, have
considered the question of premonitions have probably found that a
what day he would call. "On the 19th (July, 1881] I was called out of the office,
and, before gomg out, I put on the door a card having these worda on it, 'Will
return BOOn.' I was absent about an hour. On my return I came upstairs, but did
not ask the [elevator] boy if anyone had called; nor did he tell me anyone had done
so. As I came within a short distance of the door I saw some characters written upon
the card I had left, and just below the printed words, 'Will return IIO()n,' I stooped
down and read, 'Mr. H. has been here, and will return.' As I looked the words
faded away. I entered the office, and in a very short time Mr. H. came in. He had
left no name or message. He had impressed my face upon his mind very strongly,
with the intention of seeing if I would be in any way affected by it. or conscious of
his approach." l\1r. H. gives a concordant aocount, saying, "While on my way to
call upon her, I impressed upon my mind very vividly the lineaments of her face.
with the intention of learning if she would be in any way affected thereby, and if
she would mention anything that would show that she had any knowledge of my visit
before I saw her...
Unless we take this coincidence to have been accidenta1, we must, I IIUPpoee.
assume that some telepathic influence from l\1r. H. had reached Mrs. M.'8 un-
conscious self, and externali.sed itself as a written message at the moment when Mn.
M. was looking at the card-a suitable surface for the hallucination. Did not Mrs.
M.'s card play much the same part as the crystal which showed me my apologetic
friend with her music-portfolio!
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] .Recent E~riments in Crystal-viAnon. 519
considerable proportion relate to the arrival of letters at the time or
dOOn afterwards passing through the post, and have perhaps concluded
that from such premonitions one must, as a rule, discount considerably
for expectation, conscious or unconscious, for probability, and perhaps
something also for telepathy. It is not therefore surprising that in my
own record of crystal-visions about 14 per cent. are of this character.
Though some of these are more or less interesting to myself, I cannot
regard them for the most part as satisfactory evidences of clairvoyance.
The following instance is, however, somewhat exceptional.
(No. 66.) On the evening of March 11th, being tired, I was about to
go early to my room, when it occurred to me to wait for the last post,
already late, that I might not be again disturbed by having the
letters brought to my room. I took up the Crystal rather to
pass the time than with much expectation of seeing anything;
for as a rule when one is tired the concentration of attention
necessary to crystal-vision is somewhat difficult to attain. However, I
perceived a white object on a dark ground, soon becoming more
clearly defined as a letter in a very large envelope torn at the edges
as if not sufficiently strong to hold its contents. Another envelope, of
ordinary size, lying at the top, concealed the address, and the writing
on the sma.ller one was too much blurred to decipher. The vision was
momentary only, or I might have applied the test of the magnifying
glass, which is sometimes, though not always, of use in such cases. I
thought it possible that the vision might be merely the result of expecta.-
tion, but it seemed at least worth while, after making a note of the fact,
-my invariable rule whenever possible,-to test its significance. As a
matter of fact, the letters were lying on a seat in the hall, showing
white against the dark polished wood-placed there possibly by some-
one leaving the house who had met the postman before he had time to
ring. The letters were two,-the lower one, which had burst the
envelope, was of the size of a sheet of letter-paper not folded, and was
for myself, the upper one the usual size of a note, and not for me, which
may have accounted for my ·inability to read the address.
The following cases are from the note-book of "G.," a lady already
quoted, and both lend themselves to a possible explanation by thought-
transference :- .
She had lost sight of a friend whose address she had no opportunity
of hearing, as it was unknown to all about her. She, however, sub-
mitted the question to the test of the crystal, and was so far rewarded
as to discover, as the event proved quite correctly, that the place had a
name of two words, each beginning with a capital; she also dis-
tinguished omi letter and its place in the word. Encouraged by this
success, she next consulted the crystal as to her friend's surroundings,
and obtained a picture of the room, with many details as to shape,
Digitized by Coogle
520 .Recent Experiments in Crystal-vision. [May 10,
colouring, a.nd position of furniture; but her gaze was more especiaJly
attracted by a. photogra.ph frame, containing two portraits, which she
knew he possessed, though she had no mea.ns of knowing a.nything of
the frame in which they had been placed. This she described to me at
the time minutely. The frame was double, of padded lea.ther, dark in
colour, a.nd ha.ving a. pattern which a.ppea.red indistinct, but was not a.ny
of those with which the shop-windows of the time had made us
familiar, such as sprays of flowers, or flights of birds, or representations .
of drapery. It was not till about three months la.ter that she saw the
photogra.phs in their actual frame, which she a.t once recognised as that
of her vision, to which it a.nswered exactly, even as to the indistinct
outline of the pattern stamped upon the lea.ther. The description of
the room proved, however, wholly wrong in every respect, neither have
we been a.ble to identify it with any other which the same friend has
occupied before or since.
As this paper aims merely a.t recording some cases of crystal-vision
and does not profess to be in a.ny sense an inquiry into its physio-
logical explana.tion, or psychica.l significa.nce, I shall have achieved
my purpose if I suggest to others to attempt a wider and more
systematic investiga.tion for themselves. Having hea.rd from trust-
worthy sources 1 of several persons who ha.ve been dissuaded from
experiment by the disagreea.ble sensation it has produced, I think it
worth while to say tha.t neither to myself nor to a.ny of the friends
who have assisted me in the inquiry has the use of the Crysta.1, whether
successful or no, been in a.ny degree painful or unplea.sant; a.nd indeed
the very weariness and exhaustion, mental or physica.l, which would
ma.ke crystal-vision a. fa.tigue, suffices in my own ca.se to prevent its
occurrence. On the other hand, it seems proba.ble that it is only with a.
very few persons tha.t the attempt at vision will lead to results of a.ny
kind whatever. I ha.ve already expla.ined the very simple process; if
da.rkness is desired, it is easy at any hour to veil the Crystal with a.
piece of black drapery, or to put it at the ba.ck of a deep half-()pened
drawer, nothing further being essential than to guard against refleCtion
of surrounding objects; a.nd, ha.ppily our enlightened age requires
1 :Mr. DawllOll Rogel'll says that the lady whOle vision baa been already deoaibed
found the I18nsation caull8d by holding the Crystal RO disagreeable that 8he wu
compelled to desist, and continued the experiment only upon hie pel'lluaeion, and with
ROme reluctance. He baa alRO communicated to me an intereeting aooount of another
percipient, who diRCOntinued the practice of CryRtal·gazi.ng on aocount of ita being
accompanied by a painfuleensation of preuure on the forehead. :Mr. Hockley(Op. cit.,
p. 265), speakingof a friend who had taken up a Crystal out of mere curioaity, without
knowing ita use, adds: "He felt '10 great an oppression of giddine811 and alarm that
he immediately replaced the Crystal, and was a considerable tinle before he ooald
throw off the unpleasant eensations it had produced."
Digitized by Coogle
1889.] Recent ExperirnentIJ in Cry8tal-vision. 521
no stimulant of burning perfumes, or magic square, or muttered
incantation.
It is perhaps a little discouraging to find from a recently published
note of Mr. TrailI's that by using the Crystal in the search for lost pro-
perty I have rendered myself amenable to the law! 1 It appears
that when in 1736 the Act of James I. against witchcraft was
repealed, "punishment was very wisely provided for persons pretending
to exercise any kind of witchcraft, sorcery, enchantment, or conjuration,
or to discover stolen or lost property by any occult or crafty science."
I can only hope that my effort at experiment may be taken rather as
a proof of zeal for knowledge, otherwise Mr. Traill's further remark
has personally a somewhat unpleasant flavour.
It may be doubted whether even the crystal globes of Dr. Dee himself
would in these days continue to exhibit the l&ID.e prophetic viaiona to hill
clients, if its magician owner had just "done time" under the oppreuive
sentence of a Manchester stipendiary magistrate.
But even in the service of morality, crystal-vision is not without
its uses. That which reveals to us the unbroken continuity of life,
the literal truth of our word" character," the presence of the past, the
"what I have written, I have written," cannot but add to our sense of
~nsibili~, for
--With the Nameless is not ~y nor hour,
Tho' we thin minds who creep from thought to thought
Break into .. Thena" and " Whena " the Eternal Now.
.1 .. Eteaetera," EfI(J. lUUIt. MtIIJ., March.
Digitized by Coogle
522 The DaJnwn of Socrates.
IV.
AUTOMATICWRITING.-IV.-THE D~MON OF SOCRATES.l
In offering here, after an interval of two years, a further instalment
of the series of papers on Automatic Writing of which three have
already appeared in these Proceedings, I must briefly remind my readers
of what has already been attempted in the earlier essays. In the first
paper (entitled "On a Telepathic Explanation of some so-called
Spiritualistic Phenomena," Vol. II., p. 217), I tried to explain the
nature of automatic writing, and illustrated the operation of un-
conscious cerebration in the messages given. In the second paper (Vol.
III., p. 1), I gave cases where the message written conveyed intelligence
not known to the writer, but known to some other person present in
the room, or at any rate to some person still in the flesh. And I gave
certain reasons for supposing that this telepathic information was
received not by the normal consciousness of the subject, but rather by
some subjacent or secondary consciousness. In the third paper (Vol.
IV., p. 209), I. discussed some cognate forms of automatic action,
pushed in some cases so far as to suggest the formation of a fresh
personality; and I argued that "the sleep-waking state, natural or
induced, does not stand alone in its tendency to generate a secondary
memory, a secondary manifestation of the self, but that this tendency
shows itself whenever there is any habitual shaking-up of those
elements"; any habitual alteration of the threshold of consciousness.2
And in this present paper I shall endeavour further to extend our
range of analogies, and to show that automatic writing is but one
among a whole series of kindred automatisms which have been inter·
mittently noted, divergently interpreted, since history began. I shall
try to show that this word-writing impulse is but one among a group
of impulses which prompt to every form or element-vocal, visual, or
auditory-of automatic verbalisation ;-nl1y more, that the impulse to
automatic verbalisatioll itself is but one leading member of a still larger
group of kindred impulses which parallel automatically whatever our
conscious will, our conscious perception can discern or decree.
As soon, however, as we begin thus widely to extend the province of
our specific automatisms, we feel at once the need of some general
definition which may indicate what it is that we are rea.lly seeking,-in
I This paper was read before a General Meeting, June 17th, 1887; but ita
publication has been deferred for want of space.
S The point at which the term •a fresh personality' becomes appropriate is a mere
question of verbal definition. Personality, as we know it, depends on memory and
character, and character itself is largely a product of memory.
The Darmon of Socmte8. 523
wba.t points the automatisms which here concern us differ from the
multitude of &etions, images, ideas to which such terms as automatic or
r~ are commonly applied.
It would be interesting-but it would delay us too long-to analyse
the whole series of so-called automatisms, or "self-moved" phenomena,
in health and disease, and to show what, in each case, is the "self"
which supplies the initiating power. In default of such further inquiry,
we may at least point out certain main characters which unite in a true
cl&SS all the a1itomatisms which we are here considering,-greatly
though these may differ among themselves in external form.
In the first place, then, our automatisms are independent phenomena;
they are what the physician calls idiognomonic. That is to say, they are
not merely symptomatic of some other affection, or incidental to some
profounder change. The mere fact, for instance, that a man writes
messages which he does not consciously originate will not, when taken by
itself, prove anything beyond this fact itself as to the writer's condition.
He may be perfectly sane, in normal health, and with nothing unusual
observa.ble about him. This charac~ristic-provable by actual observa-
tion and experiment--distinguishes our automatisms from various
seemingly-kindred phenomena. Thus we may have to include in O\lr
cl&SS the occasional automatic utterance of words or sentences. But
the continuous exhausting vociferation of acute mania does not fall
within our province; for those shouts are merely B1Jmptmnatic,. nor,
again, does the en hydroclphalique (or spontaneous meanlngless noise
which sometimes accompanies water on the brain), for that, too, is no
independent phenomenon, but the direct consequence of a definite
lesion. Furthermore, we shall have to include in our cl&SS certain
simple movements of the hands, c<H>rdinated into the act of writing.
But here, also, our definition will lead us to exclude clwreic movements,
which are merely symptomatic of nervous mal-nutrition; or which we
may, if we choose, call idiopathic, as constituting an independent
malady. But our automatisms are not idiopathic but idiognomonic;
they may indeed be &SSOCiated with or facilitated by certain states of the
organism, but they are neither a symptom of any other malady, nor are
they a malady in themselves.
Agreeing, then, that our peculiar cl&SS consists of automatisms
which are idiognomonic,-whose existence does not necessarily imply
the existence of some profounder affection already known as producing
them,-we have still to look for some more positive bond of connection
between them, some quality common to all of them, and which makes
them worth our prolonged investigation.
This we shall find in the fact that they are allof them trI&.age-
bearing or nwnciative automatisms. I do not, of course, mean that they
all of them bring messages from sources external to the a.utomatist's own
Digitized by Coogle
524 The Damwn of Soc'ratts.
mind. In some few cases (as in Mr. and Mrs. Newnham's case) we
have seen that they do this; but as a rule the so-ca.lled messages seem
more probably to originate within the automatist's own personality.
Why, then, it may be asked, do I call them messages 1 We do not
usually speak of a man as sending a message to himself. The answer
to this question ·involves, as we shall presently see, the profoundest
conception of these automatisms to which we can as yet attain. They
present themselves to us as messages communicated from one stratum
to another stratum of the same personality. Originating in some
deeper zone of a man's being, they float up into superficial consciousness
as deeds, visions, words, ready-made and full-blown, without any accom-
panying perception of the elaborative process which has made them
what they are.
We may illustrate this statement by the example of post-hypnotic
suggestion,-a. phenomenon which will presently be found to fall readily
into its place as a simple and typical member of our automatic series.
Take, for instance, one of Mr. Gurney's experiments (Proceedings, XI.,
p. 319), where the subject has been hypnotised, told that "it has begun
snowing," and then awakened. He then reads aloud, in a waking state,
and meantime (in fulfilment of a previous order) his hand writes out
the piece of information communicated to him in the hypnotic state :
" It began snowing." Here the automatic script is plainly a 'ln6lJ8age
conveyed from the hypnotic stratum (so to say) of the subject's per-
sonality to himself and others occupying the ordinary level of waking
consciousness. And we shall find as we proceed that such messages
may emanate from, and may be conveyed to, various strata of per-
sonality by very various channels; while yet we discern as a common
characteristic of all these cases the fact that the" messa.ge,"-be it
verbalisation, picture, motor impulse, or other impression,--comes upon
the recipient phase of personality as though from some extraneous
8Ource,-is presented as an automatic product whose initiation lies
outside the conscious will.
Yet once more. We have made it clear to ourselves that the
automatisms with which we have to deal are messages, and are not
necessarily or obviously anything more. That is to say, they signify to
us the fact, and only the fact, that some strain of intelligence, whether
without us or within, which is not our conscious waking intelligence of
the moment, is in some fashion impressing or informing the conscious
self.
But there is yet another aspect of these automatic messages which
we must bring out into strong prominence. Interesting though the
mere fact of communication from one stratum of our personality to
another may be, this is not the culminant interest which has attracted
us to the present inquiry.
Digitized by Coogle
The Damwn of Socrate8. 5!5
That highest interest lies, of course, in the nature of some of the
messages thus received j in the fact that (like the hallucinations dealt
with in Phtmtaams qf tlUJ lAving) they are veridical messages,-that
they correspond with objective facts not normally within the purview
of the writer. The messages written by Mrs. Newnham, and showing
a transference of thought from Mr. Newnham, have been the main,
though not the only, examples hitherto cited of this class. More are to
come; nor can telepathy, as we as yet understand it, be invoked to
explain all the cases which we shall have to consider. If, therefore, we
are to label with a single epithet all automatic messages inexplicable on
any ordinarily accepted hypothesis, we must use a term wider than
tekpatM,c; we must call them IlUpernormal; implying by this term (as
often already explained) that, whatever the precise nature of the powers
involved in the production of these messages may be, they seem at
least primtifacie to transcend human powers, as known to us at the
present stage of evolution. The word "supernormal" is thus meant to
beg as few questions as possible j and so far as it connotes any theory
as to the source or nature of apparently'transcendent powers, it implies
a disposition to seek the origin of those powers in some continuance of
the same evolutionary process by which we explain--so far as explanation
is possible--such powers as we do admittedly possess.
This, however, has not been the line on which a clue to supernormal
messages has hitherto, in fact, been most often sought. It is on this
admixture of the supernormal element in automatic messages that the
doctrines of "Modem Spiritualism" have mainly been upbuilt. The
Spiritualist uni~nd sometimes not only unites but confounds-two
beliefs for which little evidence has as yet been adduced in the pages of
these Proceeding,. He believes that effects are produced, without
visible cause, on this material, ponderable world. And he believes
that the spirits of the dead send messages through the automatic
mediumship of living men. Now the acceptance of the .forst of these
two beliefs would not, to my mind, carry with it any clear corollary as
to the agency of departed spirits in the movements of matter thus
inexplicably produced. Even if there be a force at work which is not
that of the medium's muscles exerted in the ordinary way, it by no
means follows that that force should be referable to intelligences who
exist apart from the medium, but who have once, like him, been men.
But the second of the beliefs above referred to,-the belief that
messages are received whose context proves their emanation from a
departed spirito-this is indeed for the Spiritualist, as I conceive the
matter, the true articulus ,lamia aut cadMltia ecclesioJ. And surely
-if only there be any hope of a solution-the human mind can scarcely
be engaged on any question of greater moment ·than this.
To resume, then j we have realised that the automatisms which we
Digitized by Coogle
526 The Dremon of Socrates.
discuss are to be dealt with as independent, idiognomonic phenomena.;
that they are to be recognised as ntmciative or message-bearing,
whencesoever these messages be derived; and that it is especially the
BUperrwrmal element traceable in some of them which claims our
painstaking analysis.
. But in the next place,-a.nd this was in fact the reason for intro-
ducing at this point so much of general discussion,-so soon as we thus
attempt to form a coherent conception of the class of automatisms
which we seek to explain, it becomes obvious that there is no reason
why such automatism should be observed in connection with the ad of
u'riting alone.
Indeed, ,,:hen we selected writing as the first automatic phenomenon
for discussion, this was avowedly a choice determined by mere con-
venience; automatic script being a definite and easily perceptible
phenomenon, and rapidly leading to intelligible results. And we soon
found that it conducted us to a conception far wider than itself;-
namely, the conception of automatic verboliBation as a whole, including
under this convenient word the four allied processes (two of them
mainly sensory and two mainly motor), of word-hearing, word-seeing,
word-uttering, and word-writing. I .tried to show, in diagrammatic
form (Vol. III., p. 51, sqq.), in what manner a "second focus of menta-
tion" might initiate supernormal processes of seeing, hearing, or uttering
words, as well as of writing them.
But even with this extension of our purview the limit assigned is
still an arbitrary one. If this automatic impulse can affect the pro-
cesses of verbalisation, it can presumably affect other processes, both
sensory and motor. Have we any limit assignable II pricwi, outside
which it would be useless to look for any externalisation of an impulse
emanating from sub-conscious strata of our being 1
The answer to this must be that· no such limit can be with any
confidence suggested. We have not yet learnt with any distinctness
even how far the wave from a. comciously-perceived stimulus will
spread, or what changes its motion will assume. Still less can we
predict the limitations which the resistance of the organism will impose
on the radiation of a stimulus originated within itself. We are learning
to consider the human organism as a practically-infinite complex of
interacting vibrations; and each year adds many new facts to our
knowledge of the various transformations which these vibrations may
undergo, and of the unexpected arlifices by which we may learn to
cognise some stimulus which is not directly felt.
A few concrete instances will make my meaning plainer. And my
first example shall be taken from those experiments in mu.scl.e-reading-
less correctly termed mind-reading-with which the readers of these
Proceedings are already familiar. Let us suppose that I am to hide a
Digitized by Coogle
The Darmon of &crates. 527
pin, and that Mr. Sugden (Procudings, Vol. I., p. 291), or some
accomplished muscle-reader, is to take my hand, and find the pin by
noting my muscular indications. I first hide the pin in the hearth.rug ;
then I change my mind and hide it in the bookshelf. I fix my mind
on the bookshelf, but resolve to make no guiding movement. The
muscle-reader takes my hand, leads me first to the rug, then to the
bookshelf, and finds the pin. Now, what has happened in this case 1
What movements have I made 1
Firstly, I have made no voluntary movement; and secondly, I
have made no COfl.8cious involuntary movement. But, thirdly, I have
made an unconscious involuntary movement which directly depended
on conscious ideation. I strongly thought of the bookshelf, and when
the bookshelf was reached in our vague career about the room I made
a movement-sa.y rather a tremor occurred-in my hand, which, though
beyond both my knowledge and my control, was enough to supply to the
muscle-reader's delicate sensibility all the indication required. All this
is now admitted, and, in a sense, understood; we formulate it by
saying that my conscious ideation contained a motor element; and that
this motor element, though inhibited from any conscious manifestation,
did yet inevitably externalise itself in a peripheral tremor.
But, fourthly, something more than this has clearly taken place.
Before the muscle-reader stopped at the bookshelf he stopped at the
rug. I was no longer consciously thinking of the rug; but the idea
of the pin in the rug must still have been reverberating, so to say, in
my sub-conscious region; and this unconscious memory, this unnoted
reverberation, revealed itself in a peripheral tremor nearly as distinct as
that which (when the bookshelf was reached) corresponded to the strain
of conscious thought.
This tremor, then, was in a certain sense a message-bearing
.automatism. It was the externalisation of an idea which, once
conscious, had become unconscious, though in the slightest conceivable
degree,-namely, by a mere slight escape from the field of direct
attention.
Having, then, considered an instance where the automatic message
passes only between two closely-adjacent strata of consciousness,-
externalising an impulse derived from an idea which has only recently
sunk out of consciousness and which could easily be summoned back
again i-let us find our next illustration in a case where the line of
demarcation·between the strata of consciousness through which the
automatic message pierces is distinct and impassable by any effort
of will.
Let us take a case of po8t-lllJl1WWtic suggestion ;-say, for instance, the
experiment of Mr. Gurney's (Proceedings, XI., p. 319), already cited.
The subject had been trained to write with planchette, after he had
211
Digitized by Coogle
528 The Damwn of Socrates.
been awakened, the statements whicli. had been made to him when in
the hypnotic trance. He wrote the desired wonls, or something like
them, but while he wrote them his waking self was entirely unaware of
what his hand was writing. Thus, having been told in the trance,
.. It has begun snowing again," he wrote after waking, "It begun
snowing," while he read aloud, with waking intelligence, from a book of
stories, and was quite unconscious of what his hand (placed on a
planchette behind a screen) was at the same time writing.
Here we have an automatic message of traceable origin; a mesS&ge
implanted in the hypnotic stratum of the subject's self, and cropping up
-like a fault-in the waking stratum,-externaJised in automatic
movements which the waking self could neither predict nor guide.
Yet once more. In the discussion which will follow we shall have
various instances of the transformation (as I shall regard it) of psychical
shock into definite muscular energy of apparently a quite alien kind.
Such transformations of s<H:&lled psychical into physical force-of will
into motion-do of course perpetually occur within us. But the nature
of these is commonly much obscured by the problem as to the true
efficacy of the will i and it seems desirable to cite one or two examples
of such transmutation where the process is what we call automatic, and
we seem to detect the simple muscular correlative--the motor equivalent
-to some emotion or sensation which contains no obvious motor
element at all.
An easy, though a rough, way of testing transmutations of this kind
is afforded by the dynamometer. It is necessary first to discover the
amount of pressure which the subject of experiment can exert on the
dynamometer, by squeezing it with all the force at his command, in his
ordinary condition. After he has had a little p~ice his highest
attainable force of squeeze becomes nearly constant; and it is then
possible to subject him to various stimuli, and to measure the degree of
response; that is, the degree in which his squeeze becomes either more
or less powerful while the stimulus is applied. The experiments are, in
fact, a sort of elaboration of a familiar phenomenon. I take a child to
a circus; he sits by me holding my hand i-there is a discharge of
musketry a.nd his griP. tightens. Now in this case we should call the
child's tightened grip automatic. But suppose that, instead of merely
holding my hand, he is trying with all his might to squeeze the dyna-
mometer, and that the sudden excitation enables him to squeeze it
harder--aI'e we then to describe that extra squeeze as automatic 1 or as
voluntary 1
Howe.er phrased, it is the fact (as amply established by M. Fare
and othersl ) that excitations of almost any kind,-whether sudden and
lStnaation et Mouvemmt, par Ch. Fen!. Paris: Alean, 1887.
Digitized by Coogle
TII.6 Darrrum of Socrates. 529
startling or agreeable and prolo.nged,~o tend to increase the subject's
dynamometrical power. In the first pIa.ce---nd this is in itself an
important fact-the average of squeezing-power is found to be greater
among educated students than among robust labouring men,-thus
showing that it is not so much developed muscle as active brain which
renders possible a sudden concentration of muscular force. But more
than this ;-M. Fere finds that with himself a.nd his friends the mere
listening to an interesting lecture, or the mere stress of thought in
solitude,-or still more the act of writing or of speech-produces a
decided increase of strength in the grip, especially of the right hand.
The same effect of dynamogeny is produced with hypnotic subjects, by
musical sounds, by coloured light, especiAlly red light, and even
by a hallucinatory suggestion of red light. "All our sensations,"
says M. Fere in conclusion, ",are accompanied by a development of
potential energy, which passes into a kinetic state, and externa.1ises
itself in motor Iflanifestations which even so rough a method as dyna-
mometry is able to observe and record."
I would beg the reader to keep these words in mind. We shall pre-
sently find that a method apparently even rougher than dynamographic
tracings may be able to interpret, with far greater delicacy, the auto-
matic tremors which are coursing to and fro within us. If once we
can get a spy into the citadel of our own being, his rudest signalling
will tell us more than our subtlest inferences from outside of what is
being planned and done within.
Further illustrations might easily be here given. But for brevity's
sake I pass on to the automatic messages which form our special
subject, trusting that the specimens above given of motor exter-
nalisations of unexpected kinds may have led the reader to feel that
experiment alone' can tell us how far such delicate motor indications
may in fact be traceable; how much of information may pass from one
stratum of our conscio1:U'ness to another, and in a form how strangely
transmuted. And having now to deal with what I define as messages
conveyed by one stratum in man to another stratum, I must first
consider in what general ways hUJllan messages can be conveyed.
Writing and speech have become predominant in the intercourse of
civilised men, and it is to writing and speech that we look with most
interest among the communications of the JInconscious self. But it
does not follow that the unconscious self will always have such complex
methods at its command. We have seen already that it often finds it
hard to manage the delicate coOrdinations of muscular movement
required for writing,-that the attempt at autolIiatic script ends in a
thump and a scrawl. Does tHe history of animal communication
. suggest to us to try any easier, more rudimentary plan ,
The first communications of animals are by gesture; and even when
2M2
Digitized by Coogle
530 The Dremon of Socrates.
sound is added this is at first only a specialised kind of gesture. The
higher animals discriminate their ca.lls; man develops speech; and the
messa.ge-giving impulse parts into the main channels of movement--
movement of the throat and movement of the hand. The hand-
gestures-" high as heaven," "horned like a stag," and so forth-
develop in their turn into the rude drawing of objects; and this
graphic impulse again divides along two channels. On .the one hand
it developes into the pictorial and plastic arts, conveying its messages
through what may be termed a. direct, as opposed to an arbitrary
symbolism. On the other hand it assimilates itself to the laws of
speech, it becomes ideo~phic; and gradually merging direct into
arbitrary symbolism it becomes alphabetica.l script, arithmetic, algebra,
telegraphy.
But the word telegraphy suggests to us that in recent times a fresh
beginning has had to be made in human communica.tion; modes have
had to be invented by which a civilised man, disposing only of a few
simple movements,-the deflections of the indica.ting needle,-might
attain to the precision of grammatical speech. This, as we know, has
been easily effected; and the mere repetition of one or two simple
movements at varied intervals suffices, to eye or ear, for all the
purposes of an alphabet.
Now we shall find, perhaps, among the communica.tions of the
unconscious self parallels to all these varying modes of communication.
But since the unconscious self, like the telegraphist, begins its effort
with full knowledge, indeed, of the alphabet, but with only weak and
rude command over our muscular adjustments, it is apriori likely that
its easiest mode of communica.tion will be through a repetition of simple
movements, so arranged as to correspond to letters of the alphabet.
And here, I think, we have attained-perhaps for the first time--
to a conception of the mysterious and much-derided phenomenon of
" table-tilting" which enables us to correlate it with known phenomena,
and to start at least from an intelligible basis, and on a definite line of
inquiry.
A few words are needed to explain what are the verifiable
phenomena, and the less verifiable hypotheses, connoted by such words
as "table-turning," "spirit-rapping," and the like.
If one or more persons of a special type,-a.t present definable only
by the question-begging and barbarous term "mediumistic,"-remain
quietly for some time with hands in contact with some easily moveable
object, and desiring its movement, that object will sometimes begin to
move. If, further, they desire it to indica.te letters of the alphabet by
its movements,-a.s by tilting once for· a., twice for b, &c., it will often
do so, and answers unexpected by anyone present will be obtained.
Thus far, whatever our interpretation, we are in the region of easily
The Darmon of SOC)·ates. 531
reproducible facts, which many of my readers may· confirm for
themselves if they please.
But beyond the simple movementa-or table-turning,-and the
intelligible responses-or table-tilting-both of which are at least primd
facUJ physicaJ.ly explicable by the sitters' unconscious pressure, without
postulating any unknown physical force at all,-it is alleged by many
persons that further physical phenomena occur; namely that the table
moves in a direction, or with a violence, which no unconscious pressure
can explain; and also that percussive sounds or "raps" occur, which
no unconscious action, or indeed no agency known to us, could produce.
These raps communicate messages like the tilts, and it is to them that
the name of "spirit-rapping" is properly given. But Spiritualists
generally draw little distinction between these four phenomena,-mere
table-turning, responsive table-tilting, movements of inexplicable
vehemence, and responsive raps,-attributing all alike to the agency of
departed spiri~ of men and women, or at any rate to disembodied
intelligences of some kind or other.
The present paper is not concerned with the physical phenomena of
SpirituaJism, and I shall therefore leave on one side all the alleged
movements and noises of this kind for which unconscious pressure will
not account. I do not prejudge the question &8 to their real occurrence;
but assuming that such disturbances of the physical order do occur
there is at least no primd facie need to refer them to disembodied
spirits. If a table moves when no one is touching it, this is not
obviously more likely to have been effected by my deceased grandfather
than by myself. We cannot tell how I could move it; but then we
cannot tell how he could move it either. The question must be argued
on its merits in each case; and our present argument is not therefore
vitiated by our postponement of this further problem.
For the present there will for most of my readers be quite enough
of novelty in my insistance on these tilted reap0nB68 &8 a phenomenon
easily induced by many normal persons, and closely akin to various
other phenomena on which ordinary physiology is yearly laying an
increasing stress.
With the single exception of M. Richet,l I am not aware of any
writer, outside the Spiritualistic group, who h&8 so much &8 shown any
practical knowledge of this phenomenon,-still less endeavoured to
explain it. Faraday's well-known explanation of table-turning &8 the
result of the sumlD&tion of many unconscious movements,-obviously
true &8 it is for some of the simplest cases of table-movement,-does
not touch this far more difficult question of the origination of these
intelligent messages, conveyed by distinct and repeated movements of
1 La 8ugf/eICion Mmlak (see ProceetllfI(Jl., VoL II., pp. 239lqq.).
Digitized by Coogle
532 The Damwn of &crates.
some object 'admitting of ready displacement. The only explanation
that I have seen ofl'ered,-I am speaking, of course, of cases where
fraud is not in question,-is that the sitter unconsciously sets going and
stops t4e movements so as to shape the word in accordance with his
expectation. Now that he unconsciously sets going and stops the
movements is part of my own present contention, but that the word is
thereby shaped in accordance with his expectation is often far indeed
from being the case. An example cited at length in the SrxMty far
Pl1'!Ichical Research JotJI1"fUJl, for May, 1887, may illustrate the bizarre
capriciousness of these replies,-their want of relation to anything
anticipated or desired by the persons in contact with the table. Similar
instances might be indefinitely multiplied; but anyone who is really
willing to take the requisite trouble can satisfy himself on this point by
experiment with a sufficiently varied list of trustworthy friends. To
those indeed who have followed with any agreement my discussion of the
written messages, this question as to the unexpectedness of the tilted
messages will present itself in a new light. If the written messages
originate somewhere outside the writer's consciousness, so too may the
tilted messages;--6ven though we admit that the tilts are caused by his
hand's pressure of the table just as directly as the script by his hand's
manipulation of the pen.
It may be remembered that one of the pieces of evidence which I
cited in order to show that written messages were not always the mere
echo of expectation, was a case where anagrams were automatically
written, which their writer was not at once able to decipher. Following
this hint, I have occasionally succeeded in getting anagrams tilted out
for myself by movements of a small table which I alone touched. I
should add that although, as I have elsewhere mentioned, I have never
succeeded in writing automatically, I have nevertheless, after some
hundreds of trials, continued over 15 years, attained the power of
eliciting by unconscious pressure tilted responses which do not emanate
from my own conscious self. That they do, however, emanate from
Bome stratum of my being-from that fragmentary and incoherent
workshop where dreams are strung together-seems to me, as already
indicated, the most proba.ble hypothesis.
The anagrams-or rather jumbles of letters forming a short word-
which I have myself obtained, have been of the simplest kind. But
occasionally I have not at once recognised the word thus given, but
have been aware of a distinct interval before the word which my own
unconscious muscular action had thus confusedly "tilted out" was grasped
by my conscious intelligence. This is a kind of experiment which
might with advantage be oftener repeated; for the extreme incoherence
and silliness of the responses thus obtain,ed does not prevent the process
itself from being in a high degree instructive. Here, again (as in the
Digitized by Coogle
The Damwn of Socrates. 533
automatic writing of the" Olella" case), a m&Il may hold colloquy with
his own dream-may note in actual juxtaposition two separate strata of
his own intelligence.
I shall not at present pursue the discussion of these tilted responses
beyond this their very lowest &Ild most rudimentary stage. They
almost immediately suggest &Ilother .problem, for which our discussion
is hardly ripe, the participation, namely, of several minds in the pro-
duction of the same automatic message. We have already met with
something of this difficulty in our consideration of messages given
when the bands of two persons were touching a pl&Ilchette; but when
the instrument of response is large, &Ild the method of response simple,
as with table-tilting, we find this question of the influence of more
minds than one imperatively recurring.
Our immediate object, however, is rather to correlate the different
attainable modes ofautomatic response in some intelligible scheme them
to pursue &Ily one of them through all its phases. We regarded the
table-tilting process as in one sense the simplest, the least differentiated
form of motor response. It is a kind· of gesttvr6 merely, though a
gesture implying knowledge of the alphabet. Let us see in what
directions the movement of response becomes more specialised,-aa
gesture parts into pictorial art and articulate speech. We find, in
fact, that a just similar divergence of impulses takes place in automatic
response. On the one hand the motor impulse specialises itself into
drawing j on the other h&Ild it specialises itself into 8}J6ecl~. Each of
these classes of phenomena--automatic drawing and automatic speech
. -will need at a future time detailed treatment. At present I shall
only briefly indica.te their position among cognate automatism&.
Some of my readers may have seen what are termed "spirit-
drawings,"-designs, usually in colour, whose author asserts that he
drew them without any plan, or even knowledge of what his band
was going to do. This assertion may be quite true, and the person
making it may be perfectly sane.l The drawings so made will be found
curiously accordant with what the view which I am explaining would
lead us to expect. For they exhibit a fusion of arabesque with
ideography ; that is to say, they partly resemble the forms of ornamen-
tation into which the artistic h&Ild strays when, as it were, dreaming on
the paper without definite plan; and partly they afford a parallel to the
early attempts at symbolic self-expression of savages who have not yet
learnt an alphabet. Like savage writing, they pass by ~nsible
1 Instances will be afterwards given to substantiate this statement. But, of
coune, like other automatic impulses, this impulse to decorative or symbolical
drawing is sometiml'.8 seen at its maximum in insane patients. Some drawings of an
insane patient, reproduced in the American Journal of P,yc1uilogll, June, 1888, show
a noticeable analogy (in my view a predictahk analogy) with some of .the ..spirit-
drawings" above discussed.
Digitized by Coogle
The Dremon of Socrates.
transitions from direct pictorial symbolism to an abbreviated ideo-
graphy, mingled in its turn with writing of a fantastic or of an
ordinary kind.
Automatic utterance, again,is a phenomenon rarer than those which
we have thus far been discussing, and it has in consequence become much
more closely associated with "professional mediumship." So-ca.lled
" trance-spea.king" forms a recognised calling; and many volumes of
"inspirational addresses" have been printed in England and America.
Many Spiritualists hold that the style and matter of these addresses
afford abundant evidence that a mind higher than the medium's has
been concerned in producing them. Without denying the possibility of
such an interpretation, we must pla.inlybe slow to infer the action of &Il
external mind any improvement in the quality of the psychical product.
Rather we shall treat these trance-utterances somewhat as we should
discuss some passage in an ancient author which was suspected to be an
interpolation, from but which was found in all the manuscripts. A mere
difference in 8tyk would in such a case be far less convincing than the
discovery in the disputed passage of some historical fact which the alleged
author could not have known. Now" trance-addresses" are eminently
barren of fact; they generally show little more than a mere power of
improvisation, which may either be fraudulently practised, or may be a
characteristic faculty of the unconscious self.
On the whole, it seems best to defer further discussion of these last
two forms of active automatism-picture-drawing and trance-utterance
-until we have seen what light pa88ive automatisms may throw on the
value of messages thus given from within.
The term "passive automatism" may sound at first, perhaps, some-
what fantastic; but it expresses a real relation between various methods
in which a message from our unconscious self may reach the conscious
self. For that message may take a sensory .lS well as a motor form ;
it may present itself in the fornl of a hallucination of sight or hearing
just as well as in the form of tilts of a table or scrawls with a pencil.
The automatism may be called active if it finds a motor channel, pa88ive
if it finds a sensory channel, but the impulse whence it originates may
be much the same in the one case as in the other.
The study of automatic writing leads us directly to this conclusion.
Beginning by considering automatic writing alone, we soon found that
it presented analogies to various lUIemic troubles (or brain-disturbances
influencing the recognition and reproduction of spoken or written
words), and, moreover, that these a.semic distqrbances, in their various
types, were spread over all the processes of verbalisation. They affected,
that is to say, .not the word-writing process alone, lior even the two
active processes of word-writing and word-speaking alone, but also the
comparativelypa88ive processes of word-hearing and word-seeing. In the
Digitized by Coogle
The Damum of Socrates. 535
scheme drawn out (Proceedings, Vol. III., p. 58, sqq.) a place was found
for these supernormal sensory or passive phenomena, as well as for the
supernormal motor or active phenomena which were then primarily
under discussion.1
Without reproducing the formulm there given, we may say that all
these speech-processes have a sensory as well as a motor side; and
that if we observe an affection of one form of verba.lisation--sa.y, the
act of word-writing-we are likely to come upon some analogous
phenomenon, affecting the other forms of verbalisation-word-apea.king,
word-hearing, and word-seeing.
Now we have already recognised that there is such a thing as
automatic word-apea.king, strictly parallel to automatic word-writing;
and we may therefore all the more confidently expect to find some form
of automatic hearing and seeing. of words. Nor indeed is there any
reason why these twin forms of automatism-active and passive-should
be confined to the region of verba.lisa.tion alone. Wherever there is a
message from one stratum of our being to another, we may expect that
message to be delivered sometimes in motor and sometimes in sensory
terms.
Before going further, we may test the meaning of these assertions
by applying them to the familiar subject of dreamll.
According to the definition above suggested, dreams may be regarded
as one form-the commonest form~f message-bearing automatisms;
that is to say, they are phenomena, whose origin is within ourselves,
but yet outside our habitual stream of consciousness. Thus they fulfil
our definition of automatisms. And, again, they are certainly message-
bearing or nunciative, although the message which they bring to the_
waking self is usually merely nonsensical, useless for any practical
purpose. That is to say, in my. view, the message which they bring
comes from & stratum or phase of our personality which is chaotic and
fragmentary. Nevertheless a -message there is, a message conveyed by
automatic action from the sub-conscious to the conscious or waking self;
and my iminedia.te object is to show that that message may, so to say, be
communicated in either motor or sensory terms,-that there is no
fundamental difference between dream-apeech and dream-s.udition,
between dream-gesture and drea.m-vision,-but that the message, such
as it is, which the dream-atratum of our personality has to convey
gets itself expressed by whatsoe,:,er mechanism it can in each instance
work most easily-by whatsoever path of externalisation is worn the
smoothest in that special brain. (I vary the metaphors as much as
possible in order to guard against being understood to give any of them
as a real transoript of the unknown processes which actually occur.)
1 See the definitions of the formube. xx'+HH' and xx'+88', loco cit.
Digitized by Coogle
536 The Damwn of Socrates.
Now the "psychosta.tical conditions" of different brains,-the
relative arrangements of their internal forces,-are illimita.bly various.
But for present purposes the tll.l'ee main divisions, with which Mr.
Galton and others have made the world familiar, will be enough. We
have auditory subjects, that is to say, persons in whom'the memory of
sounds--of uttered words and so on-is clear and persistent, and who, if
an idea is suddenly s~ggested to them, conceive it as though heard from
some internal utterance. Thus, suppose that an auditory subject-or
auditive-reads the words, "What is the largest quadruped 1" He
immediately imagines himself as heariflfJ the word "elephant." , Next
we have the visual subjects who in a similar case 866 either the object
,itself or its printed name. A visualiser reading the above question will
instantly imagine either the'printed word elephant-or the picture of an
elephant-or the look of the beast itself. Thirdly, we have the motor
subjects, who imagine themselves either as tuu.cl'iflfJ the object suddenly
suggested, or (much more frequently) as merely themselves uttering its
name. A" motile" reading the above question will dimly Una.gine the
movements of his own larynx in uttering the word elephant.
Of course we all of us, if we possess our full complement of senses,
more or less combine all these three forms of memory. And probably
the dreams of all of us conta.in images of all three kinds. But in the
absence of external stimuli, our ,permanent psychosta.tical attitude will
naturally determine our sensations more conspicuously than during
waking hours. The visualiser will be more markedly visual in dreams,
the imagery of the dream " motile" Will be even more barren of
auditory or visual elements than in his wakmg hours.
And, observe, that the very faintness and insta.bility of the
hallucinations which dreams offer to us affords a singular insiglrt into
the genesis of hallucination. We have here indeterminate hallucina-
tions, which cannot be assigned to one sense or another in their
entirety; nay, which sometimes seem to inhabit chambers of the brain'
in which the partition between sensation and motion is still indistinct.
The menta.l operations connected with a process so familiar as
speech ta.ke place, for the most part, too easily and rapidly for us to
note them. But if we think or dream in a foreign language, the
consequent friction will reveal somewhat more than usual of our mental
workings. I have felt (and probably many others have felt the same) a
marked fatigue after dreaming when in France,.-a. fatigue which I found
to depend upon the effort made in sleep to conduct conversations in
French. I seemed in my dream to be hearing Frenchmen ta.1k to me,
and this might be thought to resemble an auditory hallucination rather
than an act of utterance. But in reality the experience was motor
rather than auditory; it was my own sub-conscious effort at French
Digitized by Coogle
The DamuYn of Socrates. 537
speech which presented itself to me as a. dream of hearing French
conversation.
With other dreamers, again, when a. dream-scene is vividly realised,
gesture becomes interchangeable with vision. Within the limits of the
dream itself it is often not clear whether we are performing an action
ourselves or watching others perform it,--our centre of personality
shifting to the focus of maximal intensity of the drea.m-operation.
And the gestures of the excited· dreamer illustrate this fusion of
sensory and mot.or elements in 0. curious way. He dreams of 0. scen&-
say of tiger-hunting-in which he is actor. Most of his dream is a.
visual hallucination merely; but when the tiger seizes him the stimulus
spreads to motor centres and he struggles visibly in bed. Then, on
awaking, he remembers the visual aspect of the dream, but not the
motor message which it has already conveyed to the waking observer.
To find 0. memory of that motor message--of his movements in bed-
we should have to get down to 0. stratum of his personality profounder
than dream.
On this last point, however, with its faint suggestion of possible
strata below the dream-stratum, we must not at present dwell. The
immediate object is to show that in this matter of messages communi-
cated from one to another stratum of personality the form of the
messa.g&-whether motor or sensory, whether an action or 0. hallucina.-
tion-is 0. secondary, and in some sense an accidental matter. The
impulse arising in the sub-conscious stratum may find its way to impress
the conscious life by very various channels, according to the previous
proclivities of the brain affected. Quite similarly, we can inspire by
post-hypnotic suggestion either 0. motor act or a sensory hallucination.
There, too, we enable 0. message to press upwards from the hypnotic to
the waking stratum of the subject's mind; but the channel by which that
upward passage is made may be motor or sensory almost indifferently ;-
the active automatism of some suggested action, or the passive automa.-
tism of some ima.gina.ry sight or audition. Considering all these things,
therefore, I hold that in order to understand active automatism it is
necessary to understand passive automatism as well. And among the
various forms of paSsive automatism, or hallucination, the hearing of
voices is one of the commonest, and may first be discussed here. But
such discussion will involve 0. slight divergence from the main thread
of our argument. We have thus far been mainly concerned with the
mode, rather than the sub8tance, of automatic communications, and we
have dwelt willingly on perfectly trivial messages, if only the mode of
their reception was such as to exclude the conscious operation of the
mind. But in the case of the hearing of voices we must make rather
0. different choice. For whereas automatic writing is a phenomenon
whose existence is not generally admitted, and which therefore
igitized by Goog
538 The Damum of Socrates.
needs proof before explanation, hallucinatory voices are a very well-
known phenomenon, only.they are for the most part associated with
insanity. We do not need, therefore, to prove that they eNt; but, if
we are to take them as worth serious discussion, we must select some
instances where insanity cannot be alleged.
Or if this be saying too much,-for some writers will allege insanity
wllerever there is any markedly unusual psychical manifestation,....:....we
must at least select some instances where no circumstance, except the
voice itself, can be held to indicate insanity, and where the substance of
the messages given is above and not below the normal level of human
thought. To find a case of this sorli,---a case where the messages con-
veyed by auditory hallucination have been unquestionably above and not
below the level of ordinary waking sanity,-is of course not easy. We
must not cite any modem example, where the repute for wisdom of the
hallucinated person is yet undecided. Nor must we cite any case, like
Mahomet's, of religious fanaticism or ecstacy, where genius has certainly
been·akin to insanity.
But .there is one instance,---&D instance well-observed and well-
attested, though remote in date,-which will at once occur to every
reader. The Founder of Science himself,-the permanent type of sanity,
shrewdness, physical robustness, and moral balance,-was guided in all
the affairs of life by a monitory Voice,-by "the Dillmon of Socrates."
This is a case which can never lose its interest, a case which has been
vouched for by the most practical, and discussed by the loftiest intellect of
Greece-both of them intimate friends of the illustrious subject;-& case,
therefore, which one who endeavours to throw new light on hallucination
and automatism is bound, even at this distance of time, to endeavour to
explain. And this is the more needful since a treatise was actually
written, a generation ago, as "a specimen of the application of the
science of psychology to the science of history," arguing from the records
of the Ba,fUWlO" in Xenophon and Plato that Socrates was in fact
insane.1
I believe that it is now possible to give a truer explanation; to place
these old records in juxtaposition with more instructive parallels ; and
to show that the messages which Socrates received were only advanced
examples of a process which, if supernormal, is not abnormal, and which
characterises that form of intelligence which we describe as genius.
For genius is best defined-not as "an unlimited capacity of taking
pains"-but rather as a mental constitution which allows a man to
draw readily into conscious life the products of unconscious thought.
I have already urged that beneath the superficially conscious stratum
1IN Dhntm d.e Socrate, &c., by L. F. Ulut, Membre de l'lnstitut. Nouvelle
tldition, 1856.
Digitized by Coogle
The DamW'fl, of Socrates. 539
of our being there is not only a stratum of dream and confusion, but a
still subjacent stratum of coherent mentation as well. This thesis, I
think, is strongly supported by the records which have come down to
us as to the Demon of Socr:ates. We shall see that the monitions
which Socrates thus received were for the most part such as his own
wiser self might well have given and that where the limits of
knowledge attainable by his Own inmost reflection may possibly have
been transcended, they seem to have been transcended in such direction
as a clairvoyant development of his own faculties might allow, rather than
in such a way as to suggest the intervention of any external power.
Let us try to analyse the nature of the "divine interventions" actually
recorded by Socrates' contemporaries. The voice, it should be remarked,
was always a voice of restraint; its silence implied approva.1. In the
first place Xenophon's testimony completely establishes thefact. He
desires, in defending his friend and master from the charge of impiety,
to make as little as may be of the matter; but what he says is quite
enough to prove-if such proof were needed-that the 3a,,.w.co•.is no
metaphor, but is to be taken literally as a notorious and repeated
incident in Socrates' life.
"First then," he says,1 ~'as to his not worshipping the gods whom
the city worships, what evidence was there of this 7 He sacrificed
constantly, and obviously used the art of divination; for it was matter
of notoriety that Socrates said that .,.v aa,,,,.s.col'-the divine Providence
-gave him indications; and this indeed was the. principa.1 reason for
accusing him of introducing new gods." ./
The instances where such indication was given ~y be divided into
three heads.
First come the cases where the warning voice--or its equally
significant absence-gives proof of a sagacity at least equa.1 to that of
the waking Socrates; and decides him to action, or to absten~on from
action, which he professes always to have recognised as right and wise.
Next come the cases where the monition implies some sort of
knowledge not dependent on any external source, yet not attainable by
ordinary means,-as a knowledge of potentia.1 "rapport" (to use the
term of the elder mesmerists), or specia.1 relation between two organisms.
And, lastly, come one or two doubtful cases where-if they be
correctly reported-there was something like clairvoyance, or extension
of the ordinary purview of sense. .
The first of these classes contains the great majority of the
recorded cases, whether small or great matters are concerned. And
it is noticeable that the monition frequently occurred in reference to
mere trifles, and hatl been a habitual phenomenon for Socrates from
1 XeD. Memorabilia I. 1.
Digitized by Coogle
540 "The Dremon of Socrates.
childhood upwards,-both of which points are eminently in analogy with
what we know of other automatisms. Let us take first some trivial
cases.
1. III the Euthydemm o~ Plato, Socrates is about to quit the
pahestra; the sign detains him; young men enter, and profitable
conversation ensues.
2. In the PJIDJd'r'UII, Socl'llotes, when" leaving his resting-place, is
detained by the sign, which thus leads him to a discourse which he had
not intended to utter-E,,u a~ pbr'f ";11-" I am, it seems, a prophet,"
he then remarks,-but only just enough for my private use and benefit.
3. In the Fir8t Alcihiades the sign restrains him from speaking to
Alcibiades until the latter is old enough to understand him aright.
There are also various cases where Socrates dissuades his friends from
expeditions which ultimately turn to their harm. None of these are in
our sense evidential; and in some of them (as in the case of the
Athenian expedition against Syracuse) ordinary sagacity might have
given the same warning. The case of Timarchus (Plato, TMag68) is
the most dramatic of these warnings.
Timarchus was sitting at supper with Socrates, and rose to go out
to a plot of assassination, to which plot only one other man was privy.
" 'What say you, Socrates l' said Timarclius, 'do you continue drink-
ing; I must go out somewhither, but will return in a little, if so I
may.' And the voice came to me; and I said to him," 'By no means
rise from table; for .the accustomed divine sign has come to me.' And
he stayed. And after a time again he got up to go, and said, 'I must
be gone, Socrates.' And the sign came to me again; and again I
made him stay. And the third time, cietermining that I should not
see, he rose and said naught to me, when my mind was turned else-
where; and thus he went forth, and was gone, and did that which was
to be his doom."
We cannot now tell what the evidential value of this case may have
been. There may have been that in the countenance of one of them
who sat at meat, which may have shown to Socrates that the hand of
an assassin was with him on the table.
But, among these monitions of Socrates, a certain silence of the
warning voice on one last occasion was held by Socrates himself, and
has since been reputed, as the most noteworthy of all. This was when
Socrates, accused on a capital charge of impiety, from which he might
have freed himself by far less of retractation than has been consented
to by many a martyr, refused altogether to retract, to excuse
himself, to explain away; claiming rather, in one of the first and
noblest of all assertions of the law of conscience as supreme, that he
deserved to be supported at the public cost in the P"ytaneum, as a
man devoted to the mission of a. moral teacher of men. The divine
Digitized by Coogle
The Dmman of Socrates. 541
sign, as has been said, came only to warn or to restrain j when it was
absent, all was well. And throughout the whole series of events which
led to Socrates' death, the voice intervened once only,-to check him
from preparing any speech in his own defence. Thereafter, by an
emphatic silence, it approved the various steps by which the philosopher
brought on his own head that extreme penalty which, B&ve for his own
inflexible utterances, the Dikastery would not have ventured to inflict.
"There has happened to me, 0 my judges," he B&id in his last
speech after sentence passed, "a wonderful thing. For that accustomed
divine intimation in time past came to me very many times, and met me
on slight occasion, if I were about to act in some way not aright; but
now this fate which ye behold has come upon me,-this which a man
might deem, and which is considered, the very worst of ills. Yet
neither when I left my home this morning was I checked by that
accustomed sign j nor when I came up hither to the judgment-hall, nor
at any point in my speech as I spoke. And yet in other speeches of
mine the sign has often stopped me in the midst. But now it has not
hindered me in any deed or word of mine connected with this present
business. What then do I suppose to be the reason thereof1 I will
tell you. I thi,nk it is that what has happened to me has been a good
thing; and we must have been mistaken when we supposed that death
was an evil. Herein is a strong proof to me of this; for that accus-
tomed sign would assuredly have checked me, had I been about to do
aught that was evil."
I dwell upon this incident; for in the history of inward m8SB&ges
no such scene is likely to recur. We shall never again see such a man
at such a moment drawing strength from the silence of the monitory
utterance which came to him as from without himself, though it were
from the depths of his own soul.
The next class of the Socratic monitions can only be briefly dea;lt
with here. They touch on that singular phenomenon of so-called
rapporl which is to us at present and has long been in the eyes of Science
an unexplained and a very disputable thing j but on which recent
hypnotic experiments are slowly bringing us to look as in some sense a
reality. In modem terms we should say that the'disciples of Socrates
were influenced not so much by his instruction as by his 8'UflgeIJtion;
and that some inward instinc~xpresaed by the monitory voice whose
utterances we are analysing-informed him without conscious con-
sideration whether his intending disciples were receptive to his sug-
gestion or no. It is in the Platonic dialogue Theage8 that this aspect
of the divine monition is most insisted on.
"I never learnt from you," B&Ys a certain Aristeides to Socrates,
"anything at all. You yourself well know this. But I always made
progress whenever I was along with you, even if I were in the B&me
Digitized by Coogle
542 The Damwn of Socrates.
house but not in the same room; yet most when I was in the same
room; and even in the same room I got on better if I looked at you
when you were speaking than if I looked anywhere else. But I got
on far the best of all when I was sitting near you and holding or
touching you. But now, said he, all my then character has dribbled
out of me." Nw ai. ~ a'8s, "l/"aua ltcli"" ~ ;~'s '~IPPV~/CQI.
I would not insist too strongly on an interpretation which may seem
merely fanciful. But nevertheless we should be puzzled to find Greek
words more expressive of the gradual dissipation and disappearance of
a post-hypnotic suggestion,-the melting away of some imparted energy
in well-doing as the subject is removed from the operator's influence.
And that the possibility of some rapport of this kind should be indicated,
not by conscious thought but by a message emanating from some sub-
conscious phase of a man's being, this, too, is a phenomenon to which
modern experience furnishes not unfrequent analogies.
The third class of Socratic monitions which I have mentioned rests
on very slender evidence. We cannot be sure that'the monitory sign
ever warned him of anything which no possible sagacity of the ordinary
kind could have led him to discover. As is natural in the beginning
of such inquiries, the cases cited to illustrate this supposed supernormal
knowledge are mainly interesting and important incidents; and it is
precisely in relation to such incidents that some unconscious gti.eu is
likely to have been J;Qade. What we should like would be just what
Plato has omitted ;-specimens, namely, of the trivial cases where the
divine warning saved the philosopher from some momentary mishap.
Of this sort I can find one only; and that is merely a tradition, given
in Plutarch's essay De Genio Socratis. Socrates, according to this
story (which Plutarch puts into the mouth of a supposed eye-witness),
is walking and talking with Euthyphron, but stops suddenly, and calls
his friends to turn back by another street. Most of them follow him,
but others keep on their way, and presently meet a great herd of
swine who knock down some of them and befoul the rest. "Charillus "
(who had thus braved Socrates' warning) "returned home with legs and
clothes all full of mire,-so that we all remembered Socrates' familiar
spirit, with roars of laughter, marvelling how the Divinity had care of
him continually."
One more remark. Among the most singular incidents in Socrates'
life were those pauses of immobility, frequently lasting for hours, and
once, as reported, for a consecutive day and night, when he was
inaccessible to any outward stimulus, and remained fixed as in a deep
contemplation. Medical readers have seen that there must have been
more than mere contemplation here; and Ulut has treated these accesses
as a kind of stupor attonitus-of bewildered paralysis of all intellectual
operation, such as is seen in minds overbalanced by some terrible
igitized by Goog
The Damwn oj SOCTUtes. 543
shock. I cannot accept the parallel, nor believe that symptoms so
grave can supervene in robust health and disappear without leaving a
trace behind. Nor, again, is there anything which suggests epilepsy.
I believe the accesses to have been accesses of ecstacy, reached, as in
some rare cases, without any previous hysterical disturbance; and .
indicating (as I hold) a sub-conscious self, so powerful and so near the
surface that some slight accident sufficed to determine its temporary
predominance over the whole man.
But; I must leave here the story of Socrates, rich in unworked
. psychological suggestion, but cited here only as an example of wise
automatism j of the possibility that the messages which are conveyed
to the conscious mind from unconscious strata of the personality,-
whether as sounds, as sights, or as movements,-may sometimes come
from far beneath the realm of dream and confusion,-from some self
whose monitions convey to us a wisdom profounder than we know.
The case, assuredly, is a marked one; but it may ~ thought to be too
exceptional for the purpose of my argument. Socrates, it may be said,
was too strangely above ordinary men to allow· us to draw wider
inferences from this unique example. It might be well if we could add
a case not complicated by such towering genius j-& case where some-
one with no great gifts of nature, with no incomprehensible workings of
the soul, had, nevertheless by monitory voices been taught wisdom and
raised 1;0 honour,-and who, if so it might be,. had testified to the
reality of the inward message by some witness which the world could
not gainsay. And such a case there is; there is a figure in history
unique and marvellous, but marvellous in this point alone. One there
has been who was born with no conspicuous strength of intellect, and
in no high or powerful place, but to whom.voices came from childhood
onwards and brought at length a strange.command ;---one who by mere
obedience to that monitory call rose to be the saviour of a great nation;
-one to whose lot it fell to push that obedience to its limit, and to
pledge life for truth; to perish at the stake rather than disown those
voices or disobey that inward law.
I speak, of course, of Joan of Arc, the Maid of Orleans, the
national heroine of France; whose name crowns the poet's list of
those famous women of old time who have vanished like II the snow.
of yester-year.n
La reyne blanche comme ung Iys
Qui chantoit avoix de sereine
Berthe au grant pi~, Bietris, Allys,
Harembourgea qui tint Ie Mayne
Et Jehanne 1& bonne Loraine
Qu' Angloys brual6rent a. Rouen,
OU IOnt-ila, Vierge lOuveraine ¥
Maia ou IOnt lea neiges d'antan ¥
Digitized by Coogle
The DamuJ'TI, of Socrates.
I must be excused for dwelling on this signal example; for I
believe that only now, with the comprehension which we are gradually
gaining of the possibility of an impulse from the mind's deeper strata
which is so far from madness that it is wiser than our sanity itself,-
only now, I repeat, can we understand aright that familiar story. I
shall not repeat its incidents in detail; but shall draw my citations
from the only trustworthy source, namely, Joan's evidence, given in
1431, before Cauchon, Bishop of Beauvais, and the other ecclesiastics
who ultimately condemned her to be burnt alive. The condemnation
was based on her own admissions; and the Latin proces-verbol still
exists, and was published from the MS. by M. Quicherat, 1841-9, for
the French Historical Society. Joan, like Socrates, was condemned
mainly on the ground, or at least on the pretext, of her monitory·
voices; and her Apology remarkably resembles his, in its resolute
insistance on the truth of the very phenomena which were being used
to destroy her. Her answers are clear and self-consistent, and seem
to have been little, if at all, distorted by the recorder. Few pieces of
history so remote as this can be so accurately known.
On the other hand, the Proces de Rlhohilitation, held some 20 years
after Joan's death, when memories had weakened and legend had
begun to grow, is of little value as evidence. Joan's credit must rest
entirely on that testimony on the strength of which she was condemned
to death.
Fortunately for our purpose, her inquisitors asked her many
questions as to her voices and visions; and her answers enable us to
give a pretty full analysis of the phenomena which concern us.
I. The voices do not begin with the summons to fight for France.
Joan heard them first at 13 years of age,-a.s with Socrates also the
voice began in childhood. The first command consisted of nothing
more surprising than that "she was to be a good girl, and go often to
church." After this the voice-a.s in the case of Socrates-intervened
frequently, and on trivial occasions.
II. The voice was accompanied at first by a light, and sometimes
afterwards by figures of saints, who appeared to speak, and whom Joan
appears to have both seen and felt, as clearly as though they had been
living persons. But here there is some obscurity; and Michelet thinks
that on one occasion the Maid was tricked by the courtiers for political
ends. For she asserted (apparently without contradiction) that several
persons, including the ArChbishop of Rheims, as well as herself, had
seen an angel bringing to the King a material crown.
III. The voices came mainly when she was awake, but also some-
times roused her from sleep; a phenomenon often observed in our cases
of "veridical hallucination." "Ipsa dormiebat, et vox excitaba.t earn."
(Quicherat, I., p. 62.)
Digitized by Coogle
The D(JJrnon of Socrate8. 545
IV. The voice was not always fully intelligible (especially if she was
half awake) ;-in this respect again resembling some of our recorded
cases, both visual and auditory, where, on the view taken in
Plumtasms, the externalisation has been incomplete. "Vox dixit
aliqua, sed non omnia intellexit." (Quicherat, I., 62.)
V. The predictions of the voice, 80 far as stated, were mainly
fulfilled; viz., that the siege of Orleans would be raised; that Charles
VII. would be crowned at Rheims; that she herself would be wounded j
but the prediction that there would be a great victory over the English
within seven years was not fulfilled in any exact way, though the
English continued to lose ground. In short, about so much was fulfilled
as an ardent self-devoted mind might have anticipated; much indeed
that might have seemed irrational to ordinary observers, but nothing
which actually needed a definite prophetic po'!er. Here, again, we are
reminded of the general character of the monitions of Socrates. And
yet in Joan's chse, more probably than in the case of Socrates, there
may have been one singular exception to this general rule. She knew
by monition that there was a sword "retroaltare "-somewhere behind
the altar-in the Church of St.Catherine of Fierbois. "Scivit ipsum ibi
esse per voces" :-she sent for it, nothing doubting, and it was found
and given to her. This was an unique incident in her career. Her
judges asked whether she had not once found a cup, and a missing
priest, . by help of simila.r monitions, but this she denied; and it is
remarkable that no serious attempt was made either to show that she had
claimed this clairvoyant power habitually, or, on the other hand, to
invalidate the one instance of it which she did in effect claim. It
would be absurd to cite the alleged discovery of the sword as a proof of
clairvoyance, any more than Socrates' alleged intimation of the
a.pproaching herd of swine. But when we are considering monitions
given in more recent times it will be well to remember that it is in this
direction that some supernormal extension of knowledge seems possibly
traceable.
And, lastly, it must be observed that among all the messages thus
given to Joan of Arc there does not seem to have been one which fell
short of the purest heroism. They were such commands as were best
suited to draw forth from her who heard them the extreme of force,
intelligence, virtue, of which she had the potency at her birth. What
better can we desire as the guide of life 1
We need not assume that the voices which she heard were the
offspring of any mind but her own, any more than we need assume that
·the figures in which her brave a.nd pious impulses sometimes took
external form were veritable saints,-the crowned St. Margaret and
the crowned St. Catherine and Michael in the armoury of Heaven.
Yet, on the other ha.nd, we have no right to class Joan's monitions,
2M'2
Digitized by Coogle
546 the Damwn of 8ocmtes.
any more than those of Socrates, as an incipient madness. To be sane,
after all, is to be adjusted to our environment, to be capable of coping
with the facts around us. Tried by this test, it is Socrates and Joan
who should be our types of sanity; their difference from ourselves
lying rather in the fact that they were better able to employ their own
whole being, and received a clearer inspiration from the monitory soul
within.
I have dwelt at some length on these two cases, far more remote in
date than those to which it is our custom to appeal. But this has been
because I held it essential to make my reader undel'lltand that the
grotesque and trivial messages or monitions, with which in this inquiry
we habitually dea~ are not to be taken as covering the whole field
of automatic action. Before we p'roceed to consider the question as to
the action of minds external to the automatist's own, we ought at
any rate to recognise that words given in these strange ways may in
themselves be worth hearing,-that not the mechanism only but the
content of automatic messages may sometimes deserve our close and
serious attention.
My promised discussion on messages claiming an external source is
still delayed for lack of adequate material. More cases are needed where
facts are said to have been given which were not known to the automatist
himself, or to any person present at the time. Some such cases we
do possess-a few have been already printed in the Jounwl-but more
should be forthcoming before they can ~ profitably compared and
discussed.
And I cannot conclude this paper without making yet another
appeal to Spiritualists, in England or elsewhere, for any evidence which
they can send me bearing on this question of "spirit identity,"-on the
possibility of proving from the content of automatic messages-however
given-that the mind of some departed friend has in truth inspired
them. For the few cases already received I have thanked my in-
formants privately, and here thank them again. But it seems to me
a.n extraordinary thing that if, as seems clear, there are some thousands
of persons in the world who do actually believe that the dead can
communicate with us by messages of this kind, these believers should
apparently make so little effort either to prove or to conduct such
communication. I am not thinking only of the paucity of the cases
sent to myself, but of the barrenness, in this all-important particular, of
"II the Spiritualistic journals which I know. There is constant assertion
that proofs of identity can be obtained by patience and care; but
actual proofs-or even attempts at proof-are hardly ever forthcoming_
Yet, without these, what reality is there in disquisitions on doctrine,-
in lengthY"revelatiOlis" without any kind of guarantee' For my own
part, I am anxious to see the Spiritualistic explanation advocated with
Digitized by Coogle
The Darrncm of &CTates. 5417
•
a.ll possible industry and care. It is by far the most interesting
hypothesis, and there are a few cases which tell strongly in ita
favour. I think it possible, too, that the attitude of receptiveness,
which Spiritualists urge a.s necessary, may contribute to the attainment
of proofs which, when attained, may have an objective and independent
value. If so, now.is the time to try earnestly to attain them, and
to reinforce that alleged evidence to a continuing and ever-present
intercourse between the living and the dead.
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS.
Digitized by Coogle
- -~
