{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__younghusband___worlds_need_of_religion.pdf","mytitle":"Worlds Need Of Religion","mylang":"de"}
THE
WORLD'S NEED
OF RELIGION
BEING THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
WORLD CONGRESS OF FAITHS
OXFORD, JULY 23RD-27TH 1937
PREFACE BY
SIR FRANCIS YOUNGHUSBAND
1937
NICHOLSON & WATSON
LIMITED LONDON
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
First published in 7937
Printed in Great Britain by T. and A. CONSTABLE LTD.
at the University Press, Edinburgh
WHO'S WHO AT THE CONGRESS
AHMAD, AFTAB-UD-DIN, Imam of Shah Jehan Mosque, Woking.
ALI, A. YUSUF, M.A., LL.M., C.B.E., I.C.S. (retired), Barrister-at-law.
Author of books on the Islamic Faith and an English translation
with commentary of The Holy Quran.
AMIRUDDIN, THE BEGUM SULTAN MIR. A Leader of Social and
Educational activities in India.
BAKER, LEO K., B.A. Priest of the Christian Community, Streatham.
BELTON, THE REV. L. J. Editor of The Inquirer.
BISHOP, MRS. Bahai Movement.
BROWN, SIR FRANK, C.I.E., of The Times Editorial Staff.
BUONAIUTI, PROFESSOR ERNESTO, Rome. Distinguished scholar
and author of books on religion. Latest works: The Roman
Church and Dante as a Prophet.
CARRIT, GABRIEL. Secretary of the League of Nations Union Youth
Department.
COOK, BRIAN. Has twice toured Canada under the auspices of the
National Council of Education.
DAVIDS, MRS. C. A. F. RHYS. President Pali Text Society. Author
of many books on Buddhism.
DODWELL, MRS. MARCIA A. B. Science Exhibitioner, Somerville
College, Oxford.
GOLLAN, J. Secretary of the Young Communists League of Great
Britain.
GOSVAMI, PANDIT A. B., Bhaktishastri, Missionary-in-Charge,
Gaudiya Mission, London. President Editorial Board, "Gaudiya,"
India.
HALL, DR. ALFRED, Upper Chapel (Unitarian), Sheffield. President
International Association for Liberal Christianity and Religious
Freedom, Utrecht, Holland.
HUME, DR. ROBERT E., M.A., Ph.D., D.Theol. Professor of Religions
at the Union Theological Seminary, New York. Author of many
books, including translation of the principal Upanishads.
KESSIE, PRINCE OF ASHANTI.
KOLISKO, DR. E., M.D., Vienna. Author and Educationist.
VI THE WORLD S NEED OF RELIGION
LANDAU, ROM. Author of God Is My Adventure. Recently returned
from an extensive tour of the Near East.
LINDSAY, DR. A. D., C.B.E. Master of Balliol College, Oxford;
Vice Chancellor, Oxford University.
LYTTELTON, DAME EDITH, G.B.E. For several years British sub-
stitute delegate, League of Nations Assembly, Geneva; Past
President Society for Psychical Research.
MAJOR, REV. H. D. A., D.D. Principal of Ripon Hall, Oxford
MAUDE, AYLMER. Author. Editor of Tolstoy translations in World's
Classics Series, and of the Centenary Edition of Tolstoy's Works;
Hon. Organizing Secretary of the Tolstoy Society.
MAUNG, MAUNG AYE. World Buddhist Mission, Rangoon, Burma.
MITCHISON, MRS. NAOMI. Author of The Conquered and other
books.
MUDALIAR, SIR RAMASWAMI. Adviser to the Secretary of State for
India.
PAYNE, F. J. Hon. Secretary, Society for the Study of Religions.
QADIR, SIR ABDUL, Kt. Adviser to the Secretary of State for India.
ROYDEN, DR. MAUDE, C.H. Was Lecturer in English Literature to
the Oxford University Extension Delegacy.
SAMUEL, THE RT. HON. VISCOUNT, G.C.B., G.B.E., D.C.L., M.A.
President British Institute of Philosophy since 1931; Hon. Fellow
of Balliol College, Oxford.
SPERRY, DR. WILLARD L. Dean of Divinity School, Harvard
University.
STOBART, MRS. ST. CLAIR. Chairman and Leader of the Spiritualist
Community (London); Founder and Chairman of Inter-Religious
Crusade.
THOMAS, PROFESSOR F. W., C.I.E., M.A., F.B.A. Boden Professor
of Sanskrit, Oxford University.
WATTS, ALAN W. Editor of Buddhism in England. Author of The
Spirit ofZen and other works on Buddhism.
YOUNGHUSBAND, SIR FRANCIS, K.C.S.I., K.C.I.E. Led Mission
to Lhasa, 19034. President Royal Geographical Society, 1919.
Author of Everest: The Challenge, Modern Mystics, A Venture
ofFaith, and other books.
CONTENTS
PAGE
WHQ'S WHO AT THE CONGRESS v
PREFACE, by Sir FRANCIS YOUNGHUSBAND, Chairman of the
World Congress of Faiths ...... ix
MEETING OF WELCOME : The Rt. Hon. VISCOUNT SAMUEL,
Acting Chairman of the Congress ..... i
THE CALL FOR RELIGION 5
Chairman: The Rt. Hon. VISCOUNT SAMUEL
Speaker: Dr. ALFRED HALL
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION 29
Chairman: Professor F. W. THOMAS
Speaker: Dr. ROBERT E. HUME
YOUTH'S ATTITUDE TO WORLD FELLOWSHIP (Youth
Symposium) . . . . . . .
55
Chairman: Sir A. RAMASWAMI MUDALIAR
Speakers: BRIAN COOK
GABRIEL CARRIT
JOHN GOLLAN
PRINCE KESSIE OF ASHANTI
THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION (Public Meeting) .
75
Chairman: The Rt. Hon. VISCOUNT SAMUEL
Speakers: Pandit A. B. GOSVAMI (Hindu)
MAUNG AYE MAUNG (Buddhist)
Dr. MAUDE ROYDEN (Christian)
Mr. YUSUF ALI (Muslim)
RELIGION: ITS VALUE TO THE WORLD ... 95
Chairman: Sir ABDUL QADIR
Speaker: Begum SULTAN MIR AMIRUDDIN
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT 117
Chairman: Dr. WILLARD L. SPERRY
Speaker: Professor ERNESTO BUONAIUTI
vii
viii THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
PAGE
METHODS OF DISSEMINATION 145
Chairman: Dame EDITH LYTTELTON
Speaker: Mr. ROM LANDAU
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS 161
Chairman: Sir FRANK BROWN
Speaker: Mr. YUSUF ALI
APPENDIX TO "THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION," by
Dr. R. E. HUME 175
INDEX 187
PREFACE
"The World's Need of Religion" was the subject for
deliberation at the Session of the World Congress of Faiths
held at Oxford in July 1937, which was in continuation of the
Congress held in London in 1936. The ultimate aim of both
was to promote the spirit of fellowship through religion.
Obviously, our first task was to decide what precisely we
meant by religion. And this was all the more necessary
because the words religion and God are used with very
different meanings "nowadays. When Karl Marx wrote of
religion being the opiate of the people, he was referring to
something very different from what we in the Congress
meant by religion. He was referring to a certain form of
organized religion which taught people to submit to sufferings
here in the assurance that when this earthly life was over
they would enjoy untold blessings in a life hereafter.
Churches who taught this doctrine were supported by States
which wished to keep the working-classes in subjection, and
therefore feared any discontent among them. And as Marx
was urging the working-classes to rise against their supposed
oppressors, he naturally inveighed against churches which
taught submission. He very rightly wanted men to stand
on their own legs and seek their happiness here and now.
But it was certain churches, not religion as such, that
provided the opiate which he condemned.
Then, again, often when people speak of religion they
mean their own particular religion. Many Christians when
Using the word religion mean only the Christian religion.
So also with the word God. Innumerable persons when
they say they do not believe in God, really mean that they
do not believe in the antiquated conception of God with
which they were brought up in their childhood or which
ix
X THE WORLD S NEED OF RELIGION
they have seen depicted in mediaeval pictures a venerable
old gentleman with a long white beard. Innumerable other
persons have never even tried to form a conception of that
Creative Power which informs the Universe, and the operation
of Whose Hand is manifest on every side and most assuredly
in our own deepest selves.
As Dr. Robert Hume, the Professor of Religions aj the
Union Theological Seminary, New York, said in his thought-
ful paper on the "Essentials of Religion," religion is an
experience a joyful, empowering experience of an influence
which has entered into the individual from a source superior
to himself. "It is," says Dr. Hume, "the consciousness of
a relationship which the religious individual sustains to Power
Divine what constitutes a person's religion is his beliefin some
Cosmic Power or gods, and his experience of that power."
What it
really comes to seems to me to be this. We are
born into a world with which we ever remain inextricably
connected. We are constantly being affected by this world
and we are constantly affecting it. There is a reciprocal
relationship between us. But the influence of the world over
us is
infinitely greater than our influence over the world.
And naturally we are intrigued to know what is the essential
nature of the world with which we are so intimately connected
and what are the laws by which it is
governed; for obviously
we have either to conform to them or rebel against them
at our peril, seeing that we have some small power of choice ;
we may choose whether we shall go round the corner to see
the beauty of a sunset or stay where we are and see only
an ugly street.
Now, when we ponder on the nature of this world of
which we are all constituent parts, we most certainly find
much pain and evil in it. We hear of men killing each other
by the million, and of earthquakes, famine, and plague
carrying off good men and bad men alike. Death takes our
dearest, and it is
only a matter of time before we ourselves
are likewise removed. It is
only a matter of time, too, before
the whole human race and all animal life will suffer -death,
PREFACE XI
for the heat of the sun must eventually give out, and life on
this planet, even of the simplest vegetable form, become
impossible.
These being undoubted facts, many are unable to regard
the world with any affection. To them it is cold and hostile.
They find themselves in it, so they make the best of it.
They
steel themselves to endure the worst. But they remain
fundamentally pessimistic. They have no faith in the good-
ness of things, and know not religion.
But others there are who, while admitting the existence
of an appalling amount of evil and suffering, are more
impressed with the wonder and beauty of the world. Some
of the greatest men of science are filled with awe at the
mighty scale of things, and they marvel at the orderliness,
the intricacy, and delicacy of the workings of Nature all
giving evidence, in their view, of the activity of some vast
Cosmic Mind or Creative Power through the operating of
which every one of us came into being. These men are
inspired with great reverence for such a world. They have
invincible faith in the orderliness of its
working. They
possess the firm foundations on which religion may be built,
and they have, at any rate, the fundamental makings of
religious men.
Others, again, are profoundly impressed with the beauty
of the world. Wherever they look they can find beauty
beauty in the expression of a face, in a little child, in a flower,
in a picture, or a bird, or a sunset, or moorland, or mountain.
Always somewhere near at hand is
beauty for those who
know where and how to look; and it fills them with joy.
At times, when they are in a specially impressionable and
receptive mood, the beauty of a scene, or even of a single
object, may stir them to a perfect ecstasy of delight. And
what causes them such happiness they cannot fail to love.
So they come to love the world which displays such beauty
and brings them such delight. And here we have religion
in another and a higher stage.
Yet others have an innate love of their fellows. They are
298 CALCULATIONS OF ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY
Arsenic
Precipitated as AsaSa from 9 N HC1 with H2S and weighed as such. Arsenate
precipitated from ammoniacal solution as MgNH4As04.6H20, ignited, and
weighed as Mg2As207.
Arsenate precipitated from neutral solution as Ag3As04 .
Precipitate dis-
solved in HN03 and the Ag
f
titrated with standard KCNS using ferric alum
indicator (Ag+ + CNS~ - AgCNS).
Titrated from 3 to 5 with standard I2 in a solution kept nearly neutral by
excess NaHC03 (As03
s
+ I2 + 2HCOr ~ As04
s
+ 2I~ + 2C02 + H20).
Titrated in strong HC1 solution from 3 to 5 with standard KI08 (2As+
++
+
I0r + Cl- + 5H2
- 2H3As04 + ICl + 4H+). Free 1, is formed as an
intermediate product and gives violet color with chloroform. Titration is to
disappearance of this color.
Titrated in HC1 solution with standard KBr03 to disappearance of color of
methyl orange indicator (3As+++ + BrOr + 9H2
-> 3II3As04 + Bi- + 9II+).
(Small amounts) Reduced in acid solution with Zn and evolved as AslI3.
The arsine oxidized to As and color compared to standards. Or AsH3 ab-
sorbed in measured volume of I2 solution. Excess I2 titrated with standard
Na&Ok (AsH3 + I, + 4H2 -> H3As04 + 8I~ + 8H+).
Barium
Precipitated as BaS04, ignited, and weighed as such.
Precipitated as BaCrO4 and weighed as such.
Precipitated with (NH4) 2C03 as BaC03, ignited, and weighed as such.
Precipitated as BaCr04 .
Precipitate dissolved in excess standard FeS04
(+H2 S04) and excess Fe++ titrated with standard KMn04 (BaCrQ4 + 3Fe+f
+
8H+ + S04
- - 3Fe+^ + Cr+++
+ BaS04 + 4H20).
Precipitated as BaCr04 and precipitate dissolved in KI -f dilute IIC1.
Liberated I2 titrated with standard IS
T
a2S2 3 (2BaCr04 + 6I~ + 1611+ ->
2Ba++
+ 3IS + 8H20).
Beryllium
Precipitated with NHiOH as Be(OH)2, ignited, and weighed as BeO.
Precipitated from ammoniacal solution with 8-hydroxyquinoline, as
Be(C9HeNO)2, ignited, and weighed as BeO.
Bismuth
Precipitated with H2S as Bi2S8 and weighed as such.
Precipitated as basic carbonate, ignited, and weighed as Bi2 3 .
Precipitated as oxaiate, (BiO)2C2 4,
the precipitate dissolved in dilute
H2S04,
and the oxaiate titrated with standard KMn04 (5H2C2 4 + 2MnOr +
6H+ - 10C02 + 2Mn++
+ 8H20).
Boron
Borate heated with methyl alcohol and the volatile methyl borate passed
through a weighed amount of ignited lime: 2B(OCH3) 8 + CaO + 3H2 ->
6CH3OH + Ca(B02)2. The material is reignited and weighed. Gain in
weight
= B2 8 .
COMMON ANALYTICAL DETERMINATIONS 299
Boratc treated with methyl alcohol as above and the methyl borate hy-
drolyzed: B(OCH3 ) 3 + 3II2
- H3B03 + 3CH3OH. The CH3OH is re-
moved by evaporation and the H3B03 titrated with standard NaOH in the
presence of glycerol (or other polyhydric alcohol) which forms a loose com-
pound with the HsBOa. Only one hydrogen of H3 B08 reacts.
Bromine
(Bromide) Precipitated as AgBr and weighed as such.
(Bromide) (Volhard method) Precipitated as AgBr with measured amount
of AgNOs and the excess Ag+ titrated with standard KCNS using ferric alum
indicator (Ag
+
+ CNS~ - AgCNS).
(Bromide) Titrated with standard AgN03 using eosin or other adsorption
indicator.
(Free bromine) Excess KI added and the liberated I2 titrated with standard
Na*SA(Br, + 2I~ - I, + 2Br~).
(Bromate) Excess KI added in the presence of acid and the liberated I2
titrated with standard Na2S2 3 (Br08
-
+ 6I~ + 6H+ -> 3I2 + Br~ + 3H20).
(Bromate) Measured amount of As2 3 (dissolved in NaHC03 ) added. The
solution is acidified, boiled, neutralized with NaHC03,
and the excess arsenite
titrated with standard I2 (BrOr + 3H3As03
-> 3HjAs04 + fir"; As03
"
+
I2 + 2HCOT -> As04
-
+ 21- + 2C02 + H20).
Cadmium
Precipitated as CdS and weighed as such.
Electrolytically deposited as Cd and weighed as such.
Precipitated as CdS and the precipitate titrated with standard I2 in the
presence of HC1 (CdS + I2
-> Cd++ + S + 2I~).
Calcium
Precipitated as CaC2 4 .H20, ignited at low heat, and weighed as CaC03 .
Precipitated as CaC2 4 .H20, ignited strongly, and weighed as CaO.
Precipitated as CaC204.H20, ignited, moistened with H2S04, reignited, and
weighed as CaS04 .
Precipitated as CaC2 4 .HsO, the precipitate dissolved in dilute H2S04,
and
the oxalate titrated with standard KMn04 (5H2C
1
2 4 -f 2MnOr + 6H+ ->
10CO, + 2Mn f +
+ 8IT20).
Precipitated as CaC2 4 .Il2 with a measured amount of oxalate. The
precipitate is filtered and the excess oxalate in the filtrate is titrated with
standard KMnO4 as above.
Precipitated as CaC2 4 .H20, and the ignited material (CaO, or CaCOs, or
CaO + CaC03) titrated with standard acid.
Carbon
(In organic compounds) Substance is burned in 2 and the C02 caught in
an absorbing agent (e.g., "asoarite") and weighed.
(Iti iron and steel) Alloy is burned in 0*. The C02 is caught in absorbing
agent (e.g., "ascarite,"
= NaOH + asbestos) and weighed. Or the C02 is
caught in a measured volume of standard Ba(OH)2 solution and (1) the
xiv THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
has about it a suspicion of placidity and sloth. Often it is
thought of as mere absence of war. There is
nothing about
it active, positive, initiative, and inspiring.
Happiness lies beyond and above peace. "The pursuit
of happiness" was deliberately adopted by the framers of
the American Constitution as the final aim of the American
people, and in every school in the United States boys #nd
girls are taught to repeat this clause in the Constitution.
How often, too, do our own Sovereigns on great occasions
affirm that what they have most at heart is the happiness of
their people! And what statesman does not have as his
highest ambition the hope that he may have contributed
something to the happiness of his country? We are apt to
ignore this great fact, or only perfunctorily acknowledge it,
or even have doubts and suspicions about having anything
so pleasant as an aim. It must surely be demoralizing and
selfish, we think. Yet we Christians have adopted the hymn
of the ancient Hebrew Psalmist:
"O be joyful in the Lord, all
ye lands; serve the Lord
with gladness, and come before his presence with a song. . . .
O go your way into his gates with thanksgiving, and into
his courts with praise : be thankful unto him, and speak good
of his Name."
Likewise the Quran says: "Fear God, Desire union with
Him. Contend earnestly on His path, that ye may attain
to happiness."
And happiness is infectious; it unites. Others are naturally
drawn to a happy man or a happy nation. The happiness
we had in the Coronation attracted other nations to us. It
is not or should not be self-centred and selfish. It is
something in which all can share. Happiness is therefore a
bond which binds men together and binds them in that
kinship of souls which it is the very object of the Congress
of Faiths to create.
For we have in mind something higher than that blood
relationship implied in the expression "Fatherhood of God
and Brotherhood of Man." The God of Whom we conceive
PREFACE XV
is the God Who is above all and through all and in us all
the God in Whom we live and move and have our being,
and Who, as I would say, lives and moves and has His being
in us. And such a God is nearer to us than a Father. He is
as near as England is to all
Englishmen or France is to all
Frenchmen part of them as they are part of him. This being
so, men are united in a kinship far closer than brotherhood.
Such is the kind of religion which I, at least, had in view.
A happy religion. A religion with a God in Whose image
we ourselves are made, Who is
unceasingly at work within
us as well as in all the world about us, and Whose delight is
in our happiness.
But in the Congress we did not think of religion as an
impersonal abstraction. We thought of it in terms of
individuals who professed and practised it.
Certainly, in my
own case, both at the Congress and during many years in
India it has been less in Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism,
and Islam than in Hindus, Buddhists, Confucianists, and
Muslims that I have been mainly interested. I have from
time to time during the last
fifty years read books on the
different religions. But I have never caught on to them and
they have never impressed me so much as have living embodi-
ments of them with whom I have had to live and to deal in
the practical affairs of life, and with whom I have often
discussed religious questions. And during last year's Con-
gress we were impressed not so much with what they had to
say, but with the living personalities of the Hindu Radha-
krishnan, the Buddhist Suzuki, and the Muslim Sir Abdul
Qadir.
It was for this reason that in the Congress of 1937 we
sought to give better opportunity for contact between persons
of different religions. In the London Congress of 1936,
though we met daily we did not live together. At Oxford,
through the courtesy of the Master of Balliol and of the
Principal of Somerville College, members were able to live
together, have meals together, and have ample time and
opportunity for informal talk and discussion. As a result
XVI THE WORLD S NEED OF RELIGION
we were able to get more enjoyment from the Congress.
And this I believe to be a most valuable result. For in
an ordinary way western people have very few opportunities
of meeting eastern people on terms of ordinary inter-
course and of discussing fundamental spiritual problems
on terms of absolute equality. Too often there is a barrier
of superiority between them. No such wall existed at the Con-
gress. Deep satisfaction at this ability to move freely about
was often expressed. And perhaps what gave more satisfaction
than anything else was the opportunities for all to attend the
religious services of each Hindu, Buddhist, Muslim, Christian.
We naturally expected each member to think his own
religion the best as he would think his own mother or his
own country the best. But we also expected that experience
would teach each when he met other men with other mothers
and of other countries and other religions, not to insist too
loudly on the superiority of his own mother, his own country,
his own religion. We 'supposed that he would become
inwardly aware, even though he might not outwardly acknow-
ledge, that neither his mother nor his country nor his
religion was absolutely perfect. And this secret acknowledge-
ment might lead him to dwell as little as possible on the
defects, and anxious to bring out all that was best in his
religion as well as to assimilate from others whatever might
enrich his own.
The World Congress of Faiths, and those other organiza-
tions which similarly strive to unite men of different religions
in a common cause, all go to form what is the greatest
movement of our times, and we may well have pride in taking
part in the movement. For we are helping to bring unity
to the human race to give men a proper sense of com-
munity. These terrible warrings between nations are utterly
repugnant to men in their senses. They are only possible
on account of mankind's youthfulness and immaturity. They
are not of man's innate nature. Inherently men are well
PREFACE XV11
disposed to one another. The same creative urge runs
through us all; and as the race which as yet is only a single
million years old and therefore, in comparison with the age
of other animals, very young grows to maturity, our sense
of unity with one another will develop and intensify.
This process we of the World Congress of Faiths seek to
further. We think not only nationally but internationally,
not only in terms of one religion but of all
religions. Together
with others working on similar lines we seek to build a new
world-order based on religion and aiming at the highest
happiness for all mankind.
We would get men to realize the importance of religion
and of religious individuals in promoting the peace and
happiness of mankind. It is
being recognized now that
war is not an effective instrument of policy nor the sole
means of obtaining political and economic security. In place
of war we would put religion. The prescription we would
recommend for peace is
religion religion rightly understood
and duly practised.
So we would make a concentrated, persistent, and insistent
effort to' arouse the consciousness not only of this one nation
but of all nations to the benefit and power of religion in
promoting the happiness of mankind.
The League of Nations is
strenuously striving to lay the
political foundations of that new world-order. Just recently,
on the initiative of Australia, and with the support of Great
Britain and America, the League is also preparing an economic
foundation for it. And now we would help in laying the
spiritual foundations.
And the type of individual who will build this new world-
order will not be of the strong man type muscular, brawny,
and loud spoken. He will be of the simple, supple, plastic,
impressionable, and expressive type who will not so much
dominate men by the power of an assertive personality as
lure and captivate them, and so draw all men unto him.
Examples of such may be found in Ramakrishna in India
and Ste Therese de Lisieux in Europe. Both of these had
xviii THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
found themselves in direct alignment with the Central Spirit
of the Universe and had felt the full force of its
impact on
them. Both had experienced the ineffable joy which comes
from being in perfect tune with the mighty rhythm of
things. Both had had an insight into the very heart of the
world. Both were forerunners of the man to come of
what man will be when he has grown out of his present
juvenile, quarrelsome stage. We all want to excel and to
improve ourselves, and these give in concrete form an ideal
towards which we may seek to get nearer.
Necessarily, we shall have to train and school ourselves
in the way we should go. We shall have to enter into the
spirit of the Universe if we desire that the spirit should
enter into us. Hindus have their ancient system of yoga,
and the Roman Catholic Church its mystic way. Eminent
psychologists are also paying attention to the scientific
technique of communication between the spirit within the
individual and the spirit of the whole Universe. But even
to those who simply, yet steadily and persistently, seek first
the Kingdom of God that kingdom which is within us
and set their affection on things above on the* highest
things in life grace may come. In a few rare moments in
a lifetime they may experience the bliss of union with God
of being filled with the Holy Ghost. And we may note that
both Ramakrishna and Ste Therese de Lisieux experienced
this union with God before they had undertaken any formal
training Ramakrishna before undergoing any yoga exercises
and Ste Therese before entering the convent. Also, every
mother has had an inkling of it first in the ecstasy of love for
her husband and afterwards in the joy of bearing a child.
Just a little of this she must have imparted to her child in
its most impressionable stage. And as every single one of
us and every bird and animal is born of a mother, we must
all have latent in us this capacity for spiritual enjoyment.
As Professor Buonaiuti says in his not merely brilliant
but deeply moving address, we have to cultivate our sense
of the mysteriousness of the Universe. He reminds us that
PREFACE XIX
the individual represents the universal life in miniature, and
then he would have us recover the sense of the sacredness
of life in all its manifestations. For this he regards as the very
matrix from which spring all
religious faiths; and only by
reviving it can we restore to life-forces their elasticity and
power of expansion. So he would have us gain contact with
the central, mystery-shrouded nucleus of life and draw from
the heart of universal spirituality its central elements and
simplest laws.
Owing to a temporary indisposition I was unable to take
any part in the Congress or in the immediate preparations
for it. I am therefore peculiarly indebted to the Executive
Committee for having borne the brunt of the work, and also
to Miss Katharine E. Conder for the compilation of the
report. More especially would I thank Lord Samuel for
devoting so much of his time and energy to the business of
the Congress when public affairs were so urgently demanding
his attention. And all are greatly indebted to Mr. Jackman
for the unceasing thought he gave to the preparations to
ensure the success of the Congress.
So successful, indeed, has it been that the Committee have
decided to hold another Congress in Cambridge next June,
and to arrange for smaHer meetings through the winter.
Every effort is
being made to bring followers of the different
faiths together and to promote a spirit of fellowship between
them.
As Lord Samuel said at the Oxford Congress, we recognize
the influence of the existing faiths and seek to work through
them, using the influence of each faith on its own devotees
to bring about true co-operation in relief of the present
daAgerous situation. We afford opportunities for mutual
understanding. And while recognizing differences we seek
to transcend those which divide.
FRANCIS YOUNGHUSBAND.
October 1937.
WORLD CONGRESS OF FAITHS
(CONTINUATION MOVEMENT)
International President
H.H. THE MAHARAJA GAEKWAR OF BARODA
Chairman
SIR FRANCIS YOUNGHUSBAND
Secretary
ARTHUR JACKMAN
36 VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, LONDON, S.W. i. Telephone : VICTORIA 0971
OBJECT
THE OBJECT FOR WHICH THE WORLD CONGRESS OF
FAITHS IS ORGANIZED IS TO PROMOTE A SPIRIT OF
FELLOWSHIP AMONG MANKIND THROUGH RELIGION.
THE MOVEMENT SEEKS TO AWAKEN AND DEVELOP A
WORLD-LOYALTY, WHILE ALLOWING FULL PLAY FOR
THE DIVERSITY OF MEN, NATIONS AND FAITHS.
It is earnestly desired that anyone interested in forwarding
the above object will communicate with the Secretary.
WORLD CONGRESS OF FAITHS
OXFORD, JULY 23RD TO 27ra 1937
BALLIOL COLLEGE,
Friday, July zyd.
MEETING OF WELCOME
VISCOUNT SAMUEL (Acting Chairman)
This is not a formal meeting but an informal welcome, at
which it falls to me to express our greetings to all those
attending the Conference. I do so on behalf of our Chairman,
Sir Francis Younghusband, whose place, although all
unworthy, I am endeavouring to fill. We are delighted that
Sir Francis is able to come amongst us, and only regret that
owing to his recent very serious illness his eager spirit has
to be kept
in check and he is not allowed to take any active
part in our proceedings.
I welcome you here not only as Acting Chairman of the
Congress but also as a
' f
Son of Balliol." (Our critics some-
times pronounce it
differently.) In this Hall I came to my
meals for four years as an* Undergraduate, and now I have the
very great honour to be a Fellow of the College. So I would
venture to express to the Master and Fellows of Balliol your
thanks for their hospitality, and like Poo Bah as one of
the Fellows, I will also acknowledge those thanks.
Oxford nowadays is almost overrun with Conferences and
Congresses. Even as the quiet streets that I knew as an Under-
graduate are now overrun with traffic, so is Oxford overrun
with intellectual traffic. It is not a bad thing that Oxford
should be brought into close contact with the great world
problems. I think it was George Meredith who said that
"the atmosphere of the universities is rather overcharged with
the calm of the past, and this has to be resisted." Balliol has
2 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
always endeavoured to be in close touch with the problems
of ordinary life, and so it is a good place to come for a Move-
ment that is
trying to link the religious traditions of the past
with the urgent and anxious problems of the present. Our
underlying purpose is an endeavour to show that the great
faiths should not enter into rivalry nor even, as sometimes
happens, into open conflict, but should rather help one another
to transcend the differences that divide them.
The Officers of the Congress are very glad that so many
have joined this Congress. About 150 are in residence, and
in addition a number are staying in the town and will attend
our meetings.
We approach our task in a serious spirit.
We are
engaging in no light and trivial work, for this cause, so
near to all our hearts, touches the deepest interests of the
modern world.
THE CALL FOR RELIGION
OPENING SESSION,
Friday, July 23r</.
THE CALL FOR RELIGION
VISCOUNT SAMUEL (in the Chair)
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, As you are aware, the Founder
of the Movement and its leader, Sir Francis Younghusband,
is most unfortunately disqualified by his recent illness from
taking part in these proceedings, and he asked me to replace
him. My Colleagues on the Committee endorsed this, and
for that reason I
appear as your Acting Chairman.
This Movement, as I understand it, is based upon three
ideas. The first is the recognition that the world stands in
great danger: that all mankind is faced by perils. Our
generation passed through the World War, and that event in
history profoundly shocked the moral sense of mankind,
and now there is
anxiety lest, in spite of all the lessons of
that war, there should be a repetition of it. We watch the
movements of the nations, we see armaments piling up and
we observe the strain of international situations, and wise
observers feel that all this gives rise to grave anxieties lest
that terrible disaster of war should recur.
This generation refuses to accept events such as those as
inevitable, as the work of some fate or destiny unknown and
undefined against which effort is futile and hope is vain.
Some of you will have read The Decline of the West^ by
Oswald Spengler, and will have seen there this idea of an
overwhelming destiny. He does not explain what that force
is; he uses the word and leaves it at that; but I believe that
t'he
great majority of thoughtful people in all countries and
belonging to all
groups reject that as a fallacy, and feel that,
apart from the physical catastrophes of the earth on which
we live, our disasters are our own and are due to the action,
or more often the inaction, of individuals or of groups of
6 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
people; are due to our own action or inaction, individually
or collectively; due to the mistakes of some and the crimes
of others.
So that is the first idea that the world stands in peril, and
it is essential that we take steps to avert that peril and npt
regard ourselves merely as in the power of some inevitable
fate.
The second idea that inspires our Movement is the recogni-
tion that mankind is now more closely knit together than
ever before. Education, posts, travel facilities, press, radio,
television, all these factors knit mankind into a closer unity
than history has ever known. Some military clash in a remote
village in China, or some railway accident in India, is known
within a few hours all over Europe and America. Christopher
Columbus would have been very surprised, I think, to have
been told that within a dozen generations from his time
men would be able to travel from Europe to America in
twelve hours. We have -therefore this strange antithesis of
a world more closely united than ever and yet in ever greater
peril because of the antagonisms of its inhabitants.
And the third idea has arisen out of the recognition that
this situation cannot be coped with by pure reason and
appeals to common sense alone, but requires also appeals to
the better emotions of mankind. Our troubles are partly
due to emotional stresses, particularly to the present form
of patriotism in some countries. Patriotism can be con-
sistent with internationalism when it means the duty of
each country to other countries. But there is also a
form of patriotism which is
purely egotistical, and this
nationalism is now, here and there, erected into a faith, exalted
into a religion, surrounded by a glamour, and evokes excite-
ment in the minds of millions and tens of millions of young
men and women and older ones as well. This is, as all caA
see, the main cause of the world tension that prevails in
our day, and it cannot be countered by pure reason
alone. Siegfried Sassoon's latest autobiographical novel tells
of an Irishman who had to argue with a very peppery Master
THE CALL FOR RELIGION 7
of Hounds, and who said to him: "Be reasonable, Master,
be reasonable ! Isn't the earth round and we all on it ?
"
There are many who will not be guided by reason. Some
emotion has to be found that will resist or dispel the other.
There must be a spiritual influence of some kind. In Russia
and among groups of people elsewhere, such an emotion is
evoked by social enthusiasm; but this is based on materialism,
and therefore it is not there that mankind is
likely to find the
spiritual emotion that our times require.
So it is that thousands of people all over the world who
realize that this is the situation with which our generation has
to deal are turning to religion as the right source of this
spiritual emotion which is needed to save the world from its
present perils; and many feel that the right course is not to
start afresh and try to evolve a new faith but rather to recognize
the influence and the power of the existing faiths and seek to
work through them. Each has its defects and each, perhaps,
is
especially conscious of the defects in the others but if
they are to be reformed and revived, the change must come
from within rather than through pressure from without.
This Movement does not, therefore, seek to effect a change
in any faith. Each has millions of devotees, and this Move-
ment seeks to use the influence of each faith over its own
devotees, to bring about true co-operation in the solving of
the dangerous situation in which we find ourselves, so that
mankind shall not only be more closely knit together, but
shall be spiritually more harmonious.
Before asking Dr. Hall to deliver his address we are to
receive a message of greeting from Maung Aye Maung of
the World Buddhist Mission, Rangoon, Burma.
MAUNG AYE MAUNG
MY LORD, BROTHERS AND SISTERS, As the representative
of the Buddhists of Burma, I bring hearty greetings and best
wishes to the members of the Congress. It is
highly appro-
priate that the religion which in the long history of mankind
first succeeded in overpassing boundaries, national, linguistic,
8 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
and racial, should be represented at the World Congress of
Faiths. In a world that today is torn by strife and warfare,
the loving spirit of the Buddhist religion is
especially needed.
The beautiful land of Burma, the land of Golden Pagodas,
'has enjoyed the Buddhist religion for more than a thousand
years; and today the Burmese people love their religion
and live according to its noble precepts. The wonderful
literature and the beautiful art of Burma have all been inspired
by the teaching which the Buddha gave to the world some
two thousand five hundred years ago. The happiness of the
Burmese people and the freedom of Burmese women, a
freedom unique in the history of the world, show the ex-
cellence of their faith. Today the Burmese people are the
happiest and the Burmese women are the freest on the face
of the earth. Many of the visitors to Burma have asserted
that the Burmese woman is the most beautiful type of woman-
hood in the world. An American educator under whom I
studied in Burma, has composed the following lines :
The Burmese maids
With flowers in their hair
And sunshades gorgeous fair
Go tripping by,
Their charms beyond compare.
My countrymen send their loving thoughts and kind
wishes to all the members gathered here, and hope that the
spirit of friendship and harmony will help us all to understand
the unity of mankind.
Dr. ALFRED HALL: THE CALL FOR RELIGION
Despite all the progress and increase of power which
have distinguished the last century, man today is
profoundly
conscious that something vital is
lacking. The word "need"
occurs with painful frequency in a world of plenty. We
have an instance of it in the theme of this Congress, "The
World's Need of Religion." It was a need which inspired
the Archbishop of Canterbury to broadcast a most eloquent
appeal to the British nation at the beginning of the year and
THE CALL FOR RELIGION 9
to urge that the way of national recovery was to be found in
religion. That appeal received a welcome from the other
British churches. Everybody would agree that the appeal
was timely. It may be said that the appeal for religion would
be timely at any moment in the life of man. Yet the word
"timely" can be used with especial appropriateness at this
juncture, when men are forsaking the old strongholds and
losing their grip on universal principles.
The condition of men is not altogether hopeless. They
are alive to the fact that somehow they have lost their foot-
hold. They are not guilty of what Carlyle termed "the
deadliest sin the supercilious consciousness of no sin;
that is death." They are aware that something is
wrong,
seriously wrong, and they feel at a loss to discover how to
set it
right. Quite suddenly they have become aware that
they are members of what Graham Wallas termed the Great
Society, and that they are in need of principles by which to
direct it. But how are they to find those principles ? Where
are they to discover them? We say at once that what the
world needs is
religion. But what do we mean by that? One
of our aims in this Congress will be to answer that question.
What is this power or purpose or influence for which
there is a call? We are plunged into difficulty at once, for
it is common knowledge that no subject has been approached
from so many different angles, or been organized in so many
various ways or called forth so many diverse definitions, as
religion.
That is
quite explainable. Religion is concerned with no
particular province of experience, but with the whole of
human experience and much more. I add "much more,"
because religion reaches out beyond human experience to
eternity.
Because religion has the widest possible human range it
varies with the experience of each individual and each group.
Consequently it would be no help if I endeavoured to give
another clean-cut definition.
But we can say that religion at least implies that life should
10 THE WORLD S NEED OF RELIGION
be related to the best, the highest, and the noblest that we
can know or conceive. We may go further and assert that
religion appertains to something fundamentally good and
beautiful and true at the heart of the Universe, which we are
to seek and to pursue.
There is a saying of Jesus in the Gospel according to
St. Matthew, "Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the
kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world."
He thus linked this passing life of man with that which has
endured from the beginning of things. He perceived that
the smallest event in nature or in the life of man was bound
up with the universe as a whole. The lily
of the field
reflected the divine glory and splendour. This little
span of
life on earth he interpreted in the light of eternity. It is
what the wisest men in our own day and generation have
done. We small though we are are parts of a universal
and eternal system. The Ideal and the Ultimate towards
which we move is built for ever into the very structure of
the world. That Ideal was there in the unimaginable past,
and it will be there in the unimaginable future. All time
past, present, and future is
part of one movement. The
potentiality of the Kingdom of God existed when the morning
stars sang together and the sons of God shouted for joy.
That was what Carlyle meant when he wrote his famous
chapter on "Natural Super-naturalism." "Oh could I trans-
port thee direct from the Beginnings to the Endings, how
were thy eyesight unsealed, and thy heart set flaming in the
Light sea of celestial wonder. Then sawest thou that this
fair universe, were it the meanest province thereof, is in very
deed the star-domed City of God; that through every star,
through every grass-blade, and most through every living
soul, the glory of the present God still
gleams."
The same truth underlies a statement I once heard the
late Sir Henry Jones make concerning the method of Lord
Kelvin in lecturing. The chance sight of a broken pane of
glass in his lecture-room suggested to him a line of thought
which took the whole universe into its
scope. This has
THE CALL FOR RELIGION II
been the method not only of philosophers and scientists, but
of saints and seers. They have seen how the commonplace
is bound up with the infinitely vast, how the tendency of the
smallest part is or may be the tendency of the immeasurable
all, and how every moment of time is related to the eternal
movement. What we are experiencing and furthering or
hindering in these passing lives of ours is not a dull mechanical
process, but a spiritual movement which reaches from the
divine centre to the furthest limit of the circumference, and
includes everything. The Call for Religion would never be
made were it not for that fact.
We have personal experience of this truth. When I stand
on one of the open moors of Derbyshire, on the borders of
Sheffield, I am at times conscious that the material universe
stretches from my feet into what seems limitless space. I am
a part of the whole. That is the result of my outward look.
Thou canst not stir a flower
Without troubling a star,
and I have a similar experience when I look within. My
little
peak of consciousness is united with the spiritual whole.
My spirit stretches out into the infinite "Beyond that is
within." My soul has no terminus. I cannot find where it
begins or where it ends.
We may have the same experience when we gaze into the
life of another human being and even into the eyes of any
living creature. "Once," said Immanuel Kant, "I held a
swallow in my hand and gazed into its
eyes : and as I gazed>
it was as if I had seen into heaven."
Man is
part of a spiritual order and he has not yet become
conscious of the fact. It has been said by someone that man
is an eternal being and the tragedy of his life is that he lives
as though he were a creature of time. For the sake of the
transient he rejects and denies the universal which belongs
to him.
Let us look at this truth from another angle. In the realm
of psychology which has been employed to degrade religion,
much stress has been laid on the dangers of repression. The
12 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
repression of normal natural instincts has been said to be the
cause of .nervous collapses. What has not been emphasized
sufficiently is the danger of repressing what is noblest and
best in human nature. For repression is not limited to the
instincts, but is
extensively active in the highest spiritual
realm. In that lies much of our trouble, and the Call for
Religion is the call to man to exercise those powers which are
most truly human, because they lift him above all other
living things on earth.
Some time ago a friend who was well on in middle life
said to me, "Many of my old friends are retired from business,
and I have still to work hard. The difference between us
seems to be that they are miserable and I am happy." Why?
Because the natural tendency of a healthy man is to be active
and purposeful. A similar reason explains the unhappiness
which so often accompanies the possession of wealth and
the pursuit of wealth. Men by their selfishness and greed
repress the tendency to 'generosity which is native to the
human soul, and they punish themselves in consequence.
Their sadness is the result of their denial of the good in
themselves. It is
pathetic when a thing or a word fails to
accomplish the end whereto it was sent, for instance, the
machine rusting to pieces because no hand uses it, and the
violin falling to dust because no musician charms the tones
from it; but saddest of all is it, when the divine quality in
the human heart actually drives the good out of life because
the possessor of it will not let it
inspire his word and action.
Man is
suffering because he refuses to listen to the call of
the eternal within him, because he is
repressing the better
part of his nature. He is sad and distressed because he lives
a narrow life, because he is what Gerald Heard terms "a
fissured psyche."
If what I have said is true, then the Call of Religion is 'a
call to the belief that the power in the Universe and in the
heart of man is
spiritual and is
friendly. That power is the
substance, the reality, which underlies the whole.
Faith has often been weakened and made fruitless because
THE CALL FOR RELIGION 13
this power has been regarded as something or Someone
entirely extraneous: something that has to be introduced,
superimposed or forced in, or Someone who is remote,
distant, inaccessible, though dwelling in light. The type of
theology that maintains this is
lifting its head today. You
have an instance of it in the recently published volume on
The Philosophy of Religion, by Emil Brunner, who writes,
"We can neither experience nor understand divine revelation,
but simply believe it." Such theology is based on the doctrine
of the impotence of man, and the call that is made to him is
for the surrender of his reason and for distrust of all those
powers and gifts which constitute him a being infinite in
faculty and in apprehension like a god. Faith of that kind
has often been accompanied by the fear that God may not
really be there.
Religion must not be interpreted in any narrow sense. All
sincere attempts at religion have been efforts to express the
eternal in time, and the differences in religions have been due
to the different needs with which man has been faced and
the different outlooks which have resulted from the endeavours
to satisfy those needs. They are all
sidelights on truth, and
it is time that the noise of battle between them died down.
Yet, as the Rev. W. M. Teape writes in his Secret Lore of
India, "A battle there is, and the enemies are those mentioned
in the Epistle to the Ephesians, 'the principalities, the powers,
the world-rulers of this darkness, the spiritual hosts of wicked-
ness in heavenly places,' which beset and hinder the under-
standing and the endeavours of all men in their pursuit of a
life of devotion to the Highest."
Acknowledging that fact, some men have hoped to find
the lowest common denominator, which, as Sir Francis
Younghusband has stated emphatically, is not the object of
the World Congress of Faiths. Any such effort can only
lead to an emasculated form of faith, of no use to anybody.
I once made the attempt myself, by eliminating everything
that could not be found in the great religions. Dogmas,
beliefs, observances, and practices which some men esteem
14 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
sacred disappeared one by one. I was soon left with little
of my oWn faith. Strangely enough I found the last to dis-
appear was the collection or offertory. The idea of giving is
in all religions. We must all admit that there is much of faith
in the call, "Bring an offering and come into his courts." It
made me think that perhaps the essence of religion might be
found in service, especially the service of the Highest. .
The best approach to a common factor of which I know
was that made by Max Miiller, who wrote, "There is no
religion, or if there is, I do not know of it, which does not
say, 'Do good; avoid evil/ There is none which does not
contain what Rabbi Hillel called the quintessence of all
religions, the simple warning, 'Be good, my boy.' 'Be good,
my boy,' may seem a short catechism; but let us add to it,
'Be good, my boy, for God's sake,' and we have nearly the
whole law and the prophets."
Quite obviously there is not sufficient inspiration and
healing in any common factor to make man whole. We used
to hear much in days gone by about the sympathy of religions,
and attempts were made to gather parallel thoughts from the
sacred books of the world. Then it was pointed out that it is
not a sympathy of religions which is needed, but a symphony
of religions.
In a great symphony orchestra the instruments are many.
Some are different from the rest; others are similar to each
other; and again others are almost identical.
May not the religions of the world, many though they
are, be made to form a symphony? Even those which are
apparently most opposed have notes which can contribute
to a harmony. Indeed those that have been most hostile to
each other have sometimes complained that their opponents
have stolen their instruments.
To take another illustration : I have been told that the art
treasures of Italy are the richest in the world, though the
art of the Netherlands makes a deeper appeal to me. But I
am assured that the art of Italy presents more varieties and
finds expression in more forms. The reason appears to be
THE CALL FOR RELIGION 15
that all the groups in Italy were inspired by a common love
of art, but each group worked out its own genius, using the
materials on the spot and supplying local needs. So it has
come about that Roman art is different from Venetian, and
Etruscan from Neapolitan, and Florentine from Milanese.
Through the self-expression and self-determination of its
genius, Italy has become the land which attracts students
of art.
Some such method is
required in religion. While we are
all
inspired by the love of religion and all animated by the
desire to answer the world's Call for Religion and all
encourage
each other to aspire, each religious group should strive to
develop its
genius according to the needs of the people in its
own vicinity. True, we have all much to teach. Every one
of us here may feel that his faith has more to teach and to
contribute to the common stock than any other faith. Yet
the attitude should be that of mutual helpfulness and never
of dominance.
Who shall show the way to the accomplishment of great
principles, universal aims, moral ideas, and spiritual purposes,
unless tHose who call themselves religious keep themselves
free from what Sir Thomas Browne quaintly termed "im-
properations and terms of scurrility"? We must make a
beginning in mutual respect and in the frank confession that
every religion, and every life for that matter, has a contribu-
tion to make and should be permitted to make it. That is what
the authoritarian in religion fails to see.
It will not be altogether irrelevant if I
apply the illustration
I have just used to the international situation, for that is a
deep concern of religion. I regard myself as an inter-
nationalist and not as a cosmopolitan. In the Oxford
Dictionary an internationalist is defined as "one who
advocates community of interests between nations," and a
cosmopolitan as "one who is free from national limitations."
The distinction may seem fine, but it is
important. I am
not a cosmopolitan, because I do not wish to see myself or
any man deprived of the qualities of the group to which he
16 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
belongs or has chosen to belong, just as I do not wish to be
robbed bf my individuality by being a member of society.
But as an internationalist I desire that the particular genius
of each nation, tribe, and group shall be respected and main-
tained, and that each shall be given the fullest possible freedom
of development.
I give the word "group" in this connection the jvidest
possible application. The forefathers of the English people
were despised by the supercilious Roman as a wild sort of
sea-rover. But the descendants of those sea-rovers have
developed the art of seamanship to the benefit of the whole
race. It may be that in some backward African tribe is some
distinct genius awaiting development, which will add to the
wealth of the world. Destroy that tribe and great good may
be lost to humanity. The little tribe of Judah has laid man-
kind under a permanent debt through the religious message
of its
prophets, and I am convinced that the Jewish people
have not exhausted their possibilities of service. The city of
Athens contributed treasures in art, from which students of that
branch of culture still draw a wealth of ideas. In spite of the
union of England, Scotland, and Wales, it is a distinct
advantage that there are still Welshmen and Scotsmen with
their racial characteristics, and I trust I may add without
prejudice, Englishmen too.
Nothing can be more dull to contemplate than a drab,
uniform humanity with all its individual distinctions removed.
That is what the advocate of the totalitarian state fails to see.
There might be less objection to the totalitarian idea if it
did not inevitably carry with it the elimination of many
groups for the sake of a few leading types. The final result
would be a stunted and dwarfed humanity. So I do not wish
to see so much racial intermixture that many characteristics
are destroyed. Let each race be given the opportunity to bring
its
genius to fulness for its own good and that of other races.
The Call for Religion is
urgent. We have been caught in
a maelstrom of contending interests and clashing personalities.
The statesmen of the nineteenth century had hardly an inkling
THE CALL FOR RELIGION 17
of the social, economic, political,
and international problems
which are the concern of the man-in-the-street today.
What is the attitude taken by those in authority, by the
leaders in the various countries, by men who are not deficient
in. thought, and we may add not wanting in sincerity and
anxiety? Is it not a fact that it matters not to what branch
of human relationships we turn? The thing that is
patent is
that the effort is made to get over the immediate difficulty
and to hope that wisdom will suffice to solve the next and
resulting difficulty. The question that is invariably asked is,
"What shall we do in the present crisis?" If it is
suggested
that a comprehensive line should be taken, it is stated that
we must explore the situation, which simply means that we
must find out what worldly advantages we are going to gain
or lose. Thus affairs of every kind are brought to a deadlock.
Dangers ensue, and mankind writhes in agony and trembles
with fear.
The old idea of the good old times has died a natural
death. No one who reads can help being aware that for
people as a whole, life is fuller and opportunity vaster than
in days gone by. Yet there never was a time when cruelty
was practised on so large a scale; never a century, for instance,
in which the innocent non-combatant was made to suffer,
regardless of age and sex, as in ours.
The story might be lengthened, but we all know it. How
shall we be delivered? What we need to see is that the cause
of this suffering, national and international, political and
economic, social and individual, is to be found in short-time
policies and expedient measures. Religion says definitely,
"Thou shalt live as in the sight of God. Thou shalt act
according to eternal principles." The tendency of those in
power has often been to act according to the immediate
advantage. The nation has been exalted above morality,
man, and God. Religion has been in the way. It is
openly
considered today to be still more in the way, and the attempt
is
being made to get rid of it altogether in some countries.
A serious mistake is being made by opposition and in-
1 8 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
difference to religion. Following that great philosopher of
religion,, James Martineau, I would urge that the factors of
growth in modern society are spiritual in character. As he
said, "In truth, the animating spring of all
improvement in
individuals and in societies is not their
knowledge of the
actual, but their conceptions of the possible."
"The whole dynamics of man's life," he maintained, "lie
in his spontaneous impulses, his regulative morals, his
religious sentiments; these it is that work his
understanding,
dictating his ambition, determining its direction, sustaining
its
perseverance."
When we turn to the lives of the great scientists, we find,
speaking generally, that they are pre-eminent not only for
their discoveries, but for the patience of their souls, the
industry of their days, and the reverence of their minds.
The biographies of Kepler, Newton, Faraday, Darwin, and
Kelvin may be read for moral edification as well as intellectual
enlightenment. Always at the back of their efforts we are
conscious of ideals at work which lift them out of the little
realms of self and make them inhabitants of higher kingdoms.
The motive may seem on the surface to be curiosity, but the
inspiration and incentive of their labours come from their
love of truth, their devotion to the service of humanity,
their wonder before the immensities of God's mysterious
Universe, and their marvel at life and every tiny portion of it.
To whatever branch of human activity we may turn, we
soon learn that behind it are spiritual forces which supply
the necessary motive power and carry great efforts towards
achievement. Even those who are bent on material and selfish
ends lay the stress on those qualities which contribute to the
greatness of man's spirit, though they employ them for narrow
and unworthy purposes. Religion demands that the spiritual
energies with which man is endowed shall be employed for
their rightful ends in the service of man and reverence for
the Highest.
I wish to place before you some facts relating to the Call
for Religion which occur to me as a working minister after
THE CALL FOR RELIGION 19
having spent thrity-seven years in three of our large in-
dustrial centres Norwich, Newcastle-on-Tyne, and Sheffield.
They may appear commonplace, but they are none the less
important for that.
The first is that there has been a break-away from the
religions of authority, and it has been most rapid since the
Great War. It may be regarded as part of the rebellion against
authority which has been most obvious in the attitude of
youth. But it is by no means limited to youth. The grown
adult shares it, though he does not give the same external
signs of it, and continues in the ways which habit has made
part of his nature. It may be urged that the religion of the
spirit has also failed, for it has not delivered a message with
the power to attract the great numbers which formerly
supported the religions of authority. Our censure should
be gentle, for the great weakness of the religion of the spirit
is its
inability and, we may add, its
unwillingness to organize
itself. Dogmas can be driven into the head, but religion
cannot be driven into the heart.
Yet ideas, living spiritual ideas, related to the needs of the
age, have been the forces which have swayed the people in
all times and places.
We sometimes speak of the emotionalism displayed in the
Methodist revival of the Wesleys, but the emotion was due
to an idea. Wesleyanism has been described as
"
Arminianism
set on fire." Behind it was the definite doctrine that the
means for the salvation of all men had been provided by God.
Every man in Christendom was given his opportunity.
Every man was offered the means ofgrace. If he were damned,
it was through his own wilful rejection of the divine love,
not by the will of God, but against the will of God.
That was a great idea, vital in the age in which it was
preached. It freed men from the fears and horrors of the
Calvinistic doctrines of election, predestination, and reproba-
tion in which they had been educated. It was a veritable
deliverance from beliefs which had laid heavily upon the
human soul.
2o THE, WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
The temptation is to think that the days are past when
vast numbers of men can be caught and moved by ideas. But
the mass-thinking in our time is too painfully obvious. The
peoples of the various nations and of the world as a whole are
not less susceptible to the ethos of the age or the Zeit-Geist
than those in previous centuries, and perhaps owing to the
increased facilities of communication they might be more
swift in their response to a living message on world-fellow-
ship. The actions of youth are decided by the standards
whether a thing "is done or not done," in spite of all the
show of independence and rebellion. If men can be captivated
and held by national and limited ideas, why not by the con-
ception of universal brotherhood ?
Once we have the ideas clear, definite, and inspired, the
power of the religion of the spirit will not be less
widespread
in its
appeal than that of the best organized religions of
authority. The wish may be father to the thought, but I
cannot believe that the opportunity is
lacking for the further-
ance of the religion of the spirit. It is the world's need.
A second fact is evident. Religion is
organizing itself in
new ways. It no longer limits itself to Church life or acts
under authority only. The movement away from ecclesiastical
direction is not always a movement away from religion. Our
habit of associating religion with the acknowledged organiza-
tions of faith accounts to some extent for the cry that religion
is in danger. One meets in public life men who are really
in earnest in their desire to establish the Kingdom of God.
They believe that they can serve their day and generation,
and perhaps not less the Universe and God, as statesmen, town
councillors, workers in philanthropic and social institutions,
teachers in college settlements, organizers of sport and play,
and members of associations usually regarded as secular. So
prevalent has this belief become that members of churches
do not always associate their service to the community with
their Church life or find the inspiration for it in religious
services. Their activities spring from their consciousness of
the immediate needs of men, and they serve without having
THE CALL FOR RELIGION 21
thought out any theory of service and certainly without self-
conscious piety.
This side of life must not be overlooked in the considera-
tion of the Call for Religion. Men today may indeed have
more leisure and opportunity than their forerunners, but
certainly our age is not behind any other in the expression of
those forms of activity which were formerly associated with
organized religion. These men are increasing in number and
promise to be the rule rather than the exception. Nevertheless
these labourers for man and God would achieve more and
further the accomplishment of greater aims, could they all be
brought under the influence of a dominating idea which was
universal in its
scope and had as its
inspiration the controlling
force of the conception of brotherhood. The danger is that
temporary reforms, piecemeal measures, and pitiable shifts
may be accepted as adequate substitutes for the world-wide
aims which distinguish religion.
Our age is
essentially one of work. It is characterized by
activity in many directions. The time calls urgently for
thought, reflection, aspiration and, above all, for the search
for principles by which to direct activity. The motto of
St. Benedict,
"
Laborare est orare" is true, but when our
seeking is earnest and sincere, it is
equally true to say,
"
Orare
est laborare."
If I were asked, "What religious idea needs to be developed
most today?", I should reply, "The doctrine of forgiveness."
No definite teaching on the subject has yet been given to
modern man. It has been cluttered up with doctrines about
propitiation, expiation, sacrifice, atonement, mediation, inter-
cession, judgment, and the like. In the Christian theologies,
both Roman Catholic and Protestant, there has been no
room for forgiveness. The doctrines of the Mass, a sacrifice
arid atonement by blood, have ruled it out. Possibly the
doctrine of Karma has prevented its
development in the East.
The Allies failed in their aim to establish peace and goodwill
after the Great War, because they had no knowledge even
of the rudiments of forgiveness.
22 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
When forgiveness is studied, it becomes clear that a price
has to be paid for it, and the greater part of it must be paid
by the person or nation wronged because of the strong
position occupied. There is no forgiveness when it is
demanded that the defeated offender shall pay the whole
penalty or the greater part of it. That is the old lex talionis,
which is
appropriately represented by the statue of justice
with the scales in her hands. But
High heaven rejects the lore
Of nicely calculated less or more.
The only sane reason for condemning or punishing any
person or group of persons is to help them to be better, or,
in other words, to put them into such a state of mind that
they can be forgiven. There is a call for the religion of
forgiveness, for men and nations have no understanding of
the quality of mercy, and forgiveness is the most difficult
task they have to perform. Until they learn this lesson,
retaliatory measures, vindictive tariffs, and other forms of
bitterness will not cease to be, and man will be at enmity
with his brother and war will ensue.
There is no Call for a Religion which endeavours to continue
on its
way regardless and free from care of the intellectual
movement of our time. Religion must not indeed be
governed and directed by new-fangled philosophies and wild
Utopias, which are numerous enough, but it must not be
cramped and hindered by ancient theologies and traditional
dogmas. No religion can supply the message that is needed
unless it takes full cognizance of the scientific discoveries, of
the spacious outlooks, and of the whole intellectual revolution,
which are distinguishing characteristics of the modern age.
Religion must also, if it is to be of service, come into the
grime and dust of the workaday world, and relate itself to
the present economic and industrial problems. It must toil
unceasingly for a higher social order. It must speak with
moral force on the problems of peace and goodwill, and
in season and out of season cultivate world-wide sympathies
and world fellowship. Great are the treasures inherited by
THE CALL FOR RELIGION 23
religion from the past, and care must be taken to preserve
them; but religion, if it is to continue to be vital, must live
in the present with its face set towards the future.
A saying has come down to us from one of the lost Christian
gospels, the Gospel according to the Hebrews. It records
that when Jesus was baptized by John, the voice from heaven
declared, "My son, I waited for thee in all the prophets that
I might find rest." What a striking image is that! God
seeking for rest in the spirit
of men like Moses, Isaiah, and
Jeremiah, and having to wait until a greater than these arrived.
And still the spirit of God waits, waits for the revealing of
the sons of God, waits for the coming of the souls of men, in
whom He can find rest.
SYNOPSIS OF DISCUSSION
Mr. LEO BAKER said that he felt it so right that Dr. Hall
had begun by giving a picture of unity, and he would wish
also to begin from unity. If we looked back through all the
holy writings of the different faiths, we always found a vision
of law and unity. Man looked back to the time when he
was near to Godhead, and when the power of God flowed
into and through him. The history of religion was a record
of man's long wanderings from that vision of unity and light,
more and more into the shadow, which showed itself always
in the same way as an experience of separation. The
separation was at first a separation of man from the divine,
but as time went on this resulted in a separation within man
himself, so that he became almost unable to feel, or to act in
the right way.
In the Christian Scriptures we read of how the light came
into darkness. The Chairman and Dr. Hall had emphasized
that this was a time of darkness. Could we not feel that this
darkness was our greatest hope for the coming of light?
And that the darkness was the call of religion to our time,
a call that came not from man but from the Divine Spirit,
24 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
which man could find when he realized again the unity within
himself and his unity with the divine light.
The BEGUM SULTAN MIR AMIRUDDIN spoke on the relation
of humanism and religion. Dr. Hall had mentioned that the
aim and objective of religion was to inculcate ethical prin-
ciples.
Humanists urged that religion was unnecessary; that
humanism could answer the need. She wished to emphasize,
however, that humanism was not sufficient. The moral and
natural elements in man were always in conflict, and human
nature, however carefully nurtured, could never resist the
temptations that life offered unless it took a stand in the
impregnable defence of religion. Hence the great need in
this age of materialism of the Call for Religion.
Mr. AYLMER MAUDE said that Tolstoy had come to realize,
and had taught, as the Begum had said, that ethics had no
roots unless they were rooted in religion. Life only had
meaning if man identified himself with God and set himself
to serve God.
Mrs. DODWELL referred to the great revival of interest in
religion that was apparent among the students of South
India. She said that they were discovering in religious con-
ferences a spirit
of fellowship that overcame differences and
difficulties, and that all religions contained a deeper stream
of spiritual
life than was apparent in its outward forms.
Each had to find it in the mysticism of his own religion first
before any common basis could be found.
Mr. VIVIEN CARTER asked whether Dr. Hall believed that
the new world order or unity of mankind would come about
as the result of the spirit of religion only, or whether some
kind of organization of the religions would also be required.
In a Conference on the Unity of the Churches of Christendom1
from which he had just come, the section dealing with the
relation of the Church to the world had been most disap-
pointing. A kind of non-intervention was the most that they
1
Conference on Church Community and State, Oxford, July 1937.
THE CALL FOR RELIGION 25
could arrive at. He wondered whether religion could do
any more for the world than be itself.
Dr. HALL (replying to the discussion): I should like to
express my sense of indebtedness to those taking part in the
discussion. I found much in common between Mr. Leo
Baker.and the Begum Amiruddin. Gerald Heard perhaps
sums up the argument in his book, The Sources ofCivilisation,
when he says that the duty of man is to achieve his unity.
The great weakness of humanism seems to me to be that it
leaves out of consideration the part that we all
possess, the
religious aspiring side. We all
possess it. Some people
may not develop it but it is there in everyone, although
maybe undeveloped. .
The question naturally arises: How are we to achieve
that mystical element? The best way to become conscious
of it is to develop each religion to the full. This will make
for unity and for a harmonious whole.
In answer to the last speaker, I may say very definitely
indeed that my own opinion is that war has failed absolutely.
People occasionally say that certain wars have been justifiable.
The way of force has failed. Let us try the way of under-
standing. It is difficult to say how far the religions can
teach us that way, for even the churchmen who believe most
in the brotherhood of man are rather tainted with nationalism
when it comes to certain points. Religion does lead some
people to a sense of world fellowship. To others it does
not help much, but we, as a World Congress of Faiths, we
at any rate, as religious people, have as our aim objective
the effort to promote peace and understanding among man-
kind through religion.
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION
SECOND SESSION,
Saturday Morning, July 24^.
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION
Professor F. W. THOMAS (in the Chair)
After the general introduction to our subject under the
heading of The Call for Religion, we naturally turn to the
Essentials ofReligion.
Everything that exists in Nature has, of course, an infinite
number of characteristics, any one of which at a particular
time may attract the maximum of attention. But nevertheless
every natural creation has also a certain number of essential
features which constitute its nature. It is to these essential
features of religion that Professor Hume is about to direct
our attention.
I think that Professor Hume needs no special introduction
to this gathering. After Sir Francis Younghusband himself
whose presence on this occasion is another example of his
indomitable zeal for the cause and who we all hope may carry
away from this gathering a beneficial stimulus to his health
after him I think it
may be said that few have done more to
create an interest in this mafter than Professor Hume. He is
known in this country and in the East by various publications
of which perhaps the chief is the Translation of The Thirteen
Principal Upanishads^- which is a most excellent perhaps the
best introduction to that marvellous literature: also by a
work entitled The Treasure-House of the Living Religions* a
most remarkable publication. In that work Professor Hume
has collected more than 4000 quotations from standardized
translations (in some cases translations that he himself has
had to provide) of the canonical or sacred scriptures of all
1
The Thirteen Principal Upanishads. Translated from the Sanskrit. Oxford
University Press. 1921.
2
Treasure-House ofthe Living Religions. (Selections from their Sacred Scriptures.)
Charles Scribner's Sons. 1933.
29
30 THE WORLD S NEED OF RELIGION
the living historical religions. These citations are collected in
fifty chapters grouped in three divisions, entitled respectively
Faith in the Perfect God.
Man and his Perfection.
Man and his Social Duties.
These citations have been modified by Professor Hume in
one sole particular, which, however, produced a very re-
markable effect. This sole particular is that Professor Hume
has excluded all oriental or foreign names, whether the names
of persons or geographical or otherwise. Thus we nowhere
find the name of Jehovah, Allah, Krishna or any of the sacred
names of the great religions of the world. Instead of these
there has been substituted either the general term of God, or
some equivalent which is suitable in the particular context.
The result of this is that a number of striking quotations from
the sacred Scriptures which might appear to us as representative
of a particular religion, and as strange or external by reason of
associations, controversial in some cases, with particular
names, are reduced to such a community of idea and senti-
ment that anyone who reads this book and who follows the
subdivisions of it from page to page, going through all the
main essentials of religion and morality, will ask himself
at every point whether he is
really reading the scriptures of
some other faith or of his own. This is a most ingenious
device and a most convincing proof that the essentials of
religion in all its main topics and features are common to all
the traditional, living religions of the world.
This is a very remarkable feature and effect of reading
Professor Hume's book. He will now proceed to address
you, and I am convinced that some of the effect of his book
will be reflected also in his address.
Dr. ROBERT E. HUME
Religion is one of the most simple and most natural ex-
periences of human beings. Yet it is also one of the most
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION 31
complex. A child of a dozen years can have an experience of
religion which is
abundantly joyous and permanently em-
powering. Yet to most religionists a lifetime's religious
experience seems insufficient for compassing the potentialities
of religion; and, accordingly, they postulate a life after death
which, in some measure or other, will continue and fulfil the
actual religious experiences of the present life.
Religious experience is not altogether uniform. Indeed,
the various forms of religious experience are not merely
diversified, but in some respects positively opposed to one
another. Thus, for some persons religion is
predominantly
a practical experience; to other persons religion is
predominantly mystical. Some systems of religion have
emphasized the individual, while other systems have
emphasized the group, or even the Impersonal Cosmic Power
of Principle into which the individual should seek completely
to merge and lose himself. In dealing with the individual,
some types of religion have advocated the goal of self-
development, while other types contrariwise have advocated
self-repression. Even in advocating self-repression religions
have differed; for example, Jainism advocated strongly an
asceticism of the body, while the contemporary Buddhism
advocated the repression of desire. In some religions the
ethical emphasis has been strong, while in some other religions
both the Ultimate Reality of the Universe and also the perfect
human individual are beyond good and evil. In some formula-
tions of religion the evil that there is in the world has occupied
large attention, while in other formulations the evil has been
considerably minimized. Some types of religion have been
chiefly retrospective in their gaze; other types of religion
have stressed a futuristic outlook, even a strong eschatological
concern for the end of the world. Let us consider also the
varied methods advocated as the proper method of salvation.
More than a dozen different plans have been proffered for the
great problem of salvation; for example, salvation by absorp-
tion in Deity; salvation by asceticism; salvation by devotion;
salvation by faith; salvation by grace, whether irresistible or
32 THE WORLD S NEED OF RELIGION
co-operative; salvation by knowledge; salvation by
obedience; salvation by the aid of an organization, whether
a divinely established Church, or a personally founded
"Sangha" or strictly human Brotherhood; salvation by virtue
of a Teacher (Guru) or a Founder; salvation by the po.wer
of prayer; salvation by sacraments or by other sacrosanct
means such as ablutions, pilgrimages, or transubstantiated
food and drink; salvation by sacrifices; salvation by sub-
mission to diverse higher authorities, whether the Power or
the Law of the Supreme Being or of some human counterpart
or intermediary thereof; salvation by varied kinds of self-
effort; salvation by the mediation of priests; salvation through
the effect of varied power other than one's own. How can
all these sixteen and more varieties of religious belief and
religious experience be subsumed under any one unifying
category?
Let us confess that our assignment to analyse the essentials
of religion is
exceedingly difficult. Some scholars have
claimed that it is
quite impossible, just because religion has
been such a jumble of curious and even contradictory elements.
Nevertheless, let us start again with the first
proposition in
this discussion, namely, that religion is
essentially an experience.
The proper logical procedure in this or any problem of
definition is to designate the next higher category under which
the particular category may be subsumed, and then to designate
its differentia. By as much as religion is
essentially an ex-
perience, therefore those persons are best qualified to analyse
and define religion who themselves have experienced what
may properly be designated as authentic, joyful, empowering
religious experience. Religion is indeed a powerful ex-
perience; yet religion is also a very delicate experience. It
cannot properly be treated as a coldly disinterested objective
affair, like mathematics or physics or chemistry or astronomy.
To many persons their religious experience is an experience so
personal, so interior, so sacred that it can hardly be mentioned
in common talk with persons who themselves exercise no
respect for religion. And if the other person has himself
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION 33
entered into the ineffable experience of religion, then to the
mystic there is no need of further argumentation, or even of
discussion, concerning the profound experience which both
have experienced.
Nevertheless our procedure should be historical, scientific,
philosophical, and unmistakably sympathetic. Forthwith let
us proceed to assert that, while religion is
primarily an ex-
perience, it is
distinctly the experience of an influence which
has entered into the individual from a source superior to
himself. While religion is a subjective experience, yet it
always carries a certain objective reference. Specifically, the
distinctly religious experience is correlated with some super-
human object of faith and worship. So, the differentia or
delimiting reference in the experience of religion is not
simply a zeal which is ardent or devoted, but a consciousness
of a relationship which the religious individual sustains to
Power Divine. Summarily I would venture to define religion
as
"
that phase, or that aspect, of his experience, including his
thoughts, his feelings, and his actions, whereby he endeavours
to live in relationship with what he deems to be the Divine,
that is, the supremely worthful Power or P.owers controlling
in the world." From a psychological point of view, religion
is
partly an intellectual experience; it is
partly an emotional
experience; it is
partly an active experience of the will.
What constitutes a persons religion is his belief in some
Cosmic Power or gods, and his experience of that power.
What differentiates one religion from another is the kind of
deity believed in, and then the kind of experience which
flows appropriately from that kind of deity or deities.
At this point in the discussion I must stop to point out
what some of you may well have been thinking in your own
mind, namely, that there have been some persons whose
religion is not so emphatically theological as to insist upon
any kind of a deity at all. At the present time there are the
Ethical Culture Society and various humanitarian movements
which are non-theistic. Indeed, there are some persons, very
earnest and even quite happy, who disavow belief in God
34 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
altogether. They are eager to eradicate all idea of 'God from
their own groups; and yet they display many of the traits
usually associated with religion, such as profound commit-
ment to a cause greater than themselves, and an enthusiastic
self-sacrifice even to uplift humanity.
Along this line, a survey of the history of religions brings
to light two somewhat similar anti-theistic revolts ; they both
started in the land of India in the sixth century before" Christ.
These experiments were conducted on a longer scale than any
anti-Christian and anti-Semitic experiments in the Christian
Era. I am glad to recall two enterprising noble men, both
"noblemen" in their social standing, named Mahavira, the
Founder of Jainism, and Gautama Buddha, the Founder of
Buddhism. They sacrificed a rich patrimony for the sake of
something avowedly better than the beliefs and practices
which were prevailing in the religion then current. Vigorously
did they reject the traditional concepts of deity, whether the
numerous nature-deities of the earlier Vedas, or the concept
of One Cosmic Impersonal Brahma or Atman which was
being advocated contemporaneously in the Upanishadic
pantheism. Experimentally they lived with great self-
reliance, instead of depending upon either god or priest; and
they succeeded in commending to others also a sturdy method
of self-saving. So powerful and winsome were Mahavira
and Buddha that those two non-theistic innovators in the
realm of religion have been followed by an unbroken succes-
sion of seventy-five generations of professing admirers.
The former group now numbers more than a million followers ;
the latter group, more than a hundred million followers.
These two long-continued movements, each starting as an
anti-theistic revolt in favour of a more humanistic method of
self-salvation, are deserving of some detailed examination
for the light which they can bring our modern humanitarian
liberalism. To put the problem quite simply, let us ask
whether, according to centuries of human experience, a great
religious reformation is
likely to endure which starts by
renouncing faith in God ?
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION 35
The very oldest personally founded religion still alive is
probably Judaism, which emphasizes faith in a righteous God,
Jehovah. The next oldest personally founded religion in the
world today is Jainism. The founder's personal name is
recorded as Vardhamana, meaning "The Increasing One/'
Subsequently his adoring followers came to designate him as
"Maha-vira," meaning "The Great Hero," and also as
"
Jina,"
meaning "The Victor" or "The Triumpher." He was
born the son of a Hindu Raja about 599 B.C., a date which is
perhaps the earliest approximately definite date in the long
history of India. That leader of the world's earliest protestant
religious movement was repelled by the self-seekingly
adulatory prayers which were being addressed to the several
score nature-deities it) the traditional polytheism. Mahavira
condemned as quite futile the inherited practice of talking so
piously about the deities, as well as talking to them. He
urged that men should take themselves in hand, and should
control the natural powers within their own complex egos,
instead of attempting to control the external so-called divine
Powers in earth and air and sky by means of flattery and
appeasement. Rather, a person should . be realistic and
scientific. Let me quote from the Acaranga Sutra (2. 4. i. 12)
as translated by Professor Jacobi in the Sacred Booh of the
East (22. 152). A devout religionist
*
"should not say, 'the god of the sky!' 'the god of the
thunder-storm!' 'the god of lightning!' 'the god who
begins to rain!' 'may rain fall!' 'may the crops grow!'
*
may the king conquer !
'
They should not use such speech.
But, knowing the nature of things, he should say 'the air,'
'a cloud is
gathered, or come down,' 'the cloud has rained.'
This is the whole duty."
The sturdy Mahavira scorned the idea which had been
advocated numerous times in the ancient Rig-Veda, that
Deity could in any way be categorized as "a friend"
(Mitra) of man, and that therefore he could be appealed
to for preferential treatment towards individual human
favourites.
36 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
"Man! Thou art thy own friend! Why wishest thou
for a Friend beyond thyself?" (Acaranga Sutra i. 3. 3. 4;
Sacred Books ofthe East, 22. 33.)
Quite remarkable is the way in which the theistic "Argu-
ment from Design" was denounced in the Jain religion long
before the scepticism of the Occident had attacked that famous
argument which postulates a Creator in order to explain the
origination of the world.
"Those who, on arguments of their own, maintain that
the world has been created, do not know the truth."
(Sutra-Kritanga i. i. 3. 9; SEE 45. 245.)
In addition to his protests against traditional theology and
piety, Mahavira proposed a half-dozen constructive reforms in
religion.
He affirmed the reality of the material world and of the
individual's soul and body, as over against the contemporary
philosophy of the Upaftishads, which involved the relative
unreality of the world and of the individual.
Instead of the performance of animal and other sacrifices,
which were enjoined in the priestly "Brahmanas," Mahavira
advocated self-sacrifice, especially bodily asceticism, and also
active kindness to animals.
Instead of prohibiting the revered Sanskrit Scriptures
from being divulged outside the esoteric circles, Mahavira
preached his new doctrines of religion in the language of the
common people; and so all the Sacred Scriptures of Jainism
still stand in the Prakrit vernacular of his day.
Instead of the traditional hierarchical system of dividing
society into four main castes successively superimposed
upon each other, Mahavira established the remarkably demo-
cratic "Sangha," "Congregation," or "Fraternity," for all
persons who should become his sympathetic followers. And
at the present time, some twenty-five hundred years later,
this Brotherhood of Jainism stands as the oldest voluntarily
entered Religious Order in the world.
Instead ofcontinuing with the traditional religion's exclusive
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION yj
interest in caste and country, Mahavira is
reported as having
had thrice a kind of divine urge to go forth and establish a
religion which should be truly universal.
"Arhat (i.e. Blessed One)! Propagate the religion
which is a blessing to all creatures in the world!"
(Acaranga Sutra 3. 18. 6; SEE 22. 195.)
'%uck to thee, Best Bull of the Kshatriyas! Awake,
reverend Lord of the world ! Establish the religion of the
Law which benefits all
living beings in the whole universe !"
(Kalpa Sutra in; SEE 22. 256.)
"Victory, victory to thee, Gladdener of the world! O
Hero ! In the arena of the three worlds gain the supreme
best knowledge, called Absolute Kevala!" (Kalpa Sutra
114; SEE 22. 258.)
But the non-theistic basis of that remarkable innovator,
Mahavira, has not evinced the power to survive even in the
history of his own system. He who previously had been a
solitary ascetic patiently seeking the salvation of his own soul
for twelve years, changed over into being a preacher and a
leader of many followers. During the latter part of his life
Mahavira is
reported as having done very extensive preaching
and converting throughout North India, even to seeking
out and converting four kinds. In his own person he had
fulfilled the ideal which he had preached, namely, a life
quiet
and unperturbed, self-denying, harmless, prayerless. Yet
subsequently his later followers have represented him as
possessing attributes which, to most religionists, seem to be
genuinely divine. In their Sacred Scriptures he is
represented
as sinless.
"Having wisdom, Mahavira committed no sin himself.
He meditated, free from sin and desire." (Acaranga Sutra
1.8.4.8. 15; SEE 22. 86-87.)
" "The great Sage does not commit any wrong." (Sutra-
Kritanga i. 6. 26; SEE 45. 291.)
"Knowing the current of worldliness, the current of
sinfulness, practising the sinless abstinence from killing
and whatever is sinful, the Venerable One left that undone."
(Acaranga Sutra i. 8. i. 15. 16. 17; SEE 22. 81.)
38 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
In the Sacred Scriptures of Jainism the Founder is revered
as omniscient.
"He knew the thoughts of all sentient beings."
(Acaranga Sutra 2. 15. 23; SEE 22. 200.)
"
He possessed supreme, unlimited, unimpeded knowledge
and intuition." (Kalpa Sutra 112; SEE 22. 257.)
"This wise and clever great Sage possessed .infinite
knowledge." (Sutra-Kritanga Sutra i. 6, 3; SEE 45. 287.)
"Omniscient, he shines forth. . . . The Omniscient
Sage has proclaimed the Law. The Omniscient is the most
famous ... he, the Omniscient." (Sutra-Kritanga Sutra
1. 6. 6. 7. 18. 25; SEE 45. 288. 29.)
Further, in the Sacred Scriptures of Jainism this remarkable
person is
represented as having been pre-existent and planfully
incarnate.
"He descended from heaven. . . . The Venerable
Ascetic Mahavira descended from the great Vimana (i.e. the
Palace of the gods). . . .
Here, in the continent of Jambu-
dvipa (i.e. India), in the southern part of Bharata-Varsha
(i.e. North India), he took the form of an embryo in the
womb of Devanada (his mother)." (Acaranga Sutra
2. 15. i. 2; SEE 22. 189. 190.)
In addition to doctrinal deification, Mahavira has actually
been worshipped idolatrously, even along with other divine
beings, in the later history of his system of religion.
Valiantly had that humble, self-sacrificing devotee and
preacher of religion pleaded with his fellow-men to be valiantly
self-helpful in all matters of religion, instead of being
feebly dependent upon sacerdotal, or any kind of divine,
assistance. Yet, so strong and kind and patient and helpful
had he himself lived, that his followers concluded that he was
no ordinary man; he himself must have been veritably divine.
And then there ensued the historic fact that through a period-
longer than the Christian Era his followers have turned into
adorable deity him who theoretically was the denier of the
divine.
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION 39
Next let us consider the other oft-quoted instance of a
system of religion which originated without the help* of any
kind of a god.
Gautama the Buddha, like his slightly older contemporary
Mahavira, satirized the current lazy, selfish methods of praying
to alleged supernatural Powers. With noteworthy skill and
good humour Buddha ridiculed the claims for wonderful
theological and scriptural knowledge which had been main-
tained by the religious leaders of his country. (See Tevijja
Sutta i. 12. 15. 24; SBE ii. 173. 174. 180.) In the
Dhammapada, or "Way of Virtue," which is the most
important document among the twenty-nine constituent
documents in Buddhism's "Tri-Pitaka" or "Three Baskets"
of wisdom-literature,, there are more than a score of passages
recording how the most daring and most effective religious
reformer in the entire history of India appealed for a more
heroic type of religion. Buddha praised self-saving, self-
purification, and self-control as being the prime requisites of
a happy and successful life, in protest against the hypocrisies
and futilities of the religious aristocracy and theologians whom
he encountered.
"It is
good to tame the mind, which is difficult to hold
in, and flighty. A tamed mind brings happiness."
(Dhammapada 35; SBE 10. i. 12.)
"Not even a god or a spirit (Gandharva), not Mara
(i.e. the tempter), with Brahma (the Supreme Being of
philosophic Hinduism), could change into defeat the victory
of a man who has vanquished himself, and who always
lives under restraint." (Dhammapada 104. 105; SBE
10. i. 31-32.)
Buddha acted and spoke with audacious denunciation of
the caste-system which had been, and which still is, prevailing
in India. Five hundred years before the great Galilean, and
with some of the very same phraseology, Buddha told the
proud rapacious high-stationed sinners of his day that the
really high-class and admirable person, as also the really
despicable low-down person, must be adjudged in terms of
4o THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
moral character, not primarily according to standards of
heredity or social status or the externals of conventional
religion.
"A man does not become a Brahman (i.e.
a first-class
person) by his family or by birth. He in whom there is
truth and righteousness he is blessed; he is a Brahman.
O fool! Within thee there is ravening; but the out-
side thou makest clean." (Dhammapada 393-394; SEE
10. i. 90-91; similarly SEE 10. i. 39-40. 90-96; similarly
Sutta-Nipata 520-527. 620-640; 10. 2. 88. 111-115; simi-
larly Mahavagga i. 2. 3; SEE 13. 79-80.)
"The man who is angry, and bears hatred, who harms
living beings, who speaks falsely, who exalts himself, and
despises others let one know him as an out-caste." (Sutta-
Nipata 115. 116. 121. 131; SEE 10. 2. 21-22.)
Buddha made a certain noteworthy application of his new
system of ethical self-culture by organizing his followers into
a Brotherhood or Monastic Order, "Sangha." He taught
that all
previously separating caste-distinctions are to be
dropped on entering into this Buddhist fraternity, even as
all rivers lose their previous differences when theyenter into
the mighty ocean. (Culla-vagga 9. i. 4; SEE 20. 304.)
Many missionaries of Buddhism followed Buddha's own
example (Mahavagga i. 6. 1-16; SEE 13. 89-94) and precept
(Mahavagga i. n. i; SEE 13. 112-113; also Maha-Parinib-
bana Sutta 3. 65; SEE n. 60-61) of wide itinerant preach-
ing. The blood-thirsty militaristic King Asoka, who was
perhaps the most famous convert to Buddhism, about two
hundred and fifty years before Christ sent his own son
Mahinda on an evangelistic expedition to the next neigh-
bouring country southward.
The impression which was made by that Buddhist foreign
missionary effort is recorded in the Mahavamsa or Great
Chronicle of Ceylon (chapter 14, verse 55) as follows:
"When the world's welfare is concerned, who would
be slothful or indifferent?" (as translated in J. E. Carpenter,
The Place of Christianity among the Religions of the World^
second edition, p. 94).
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION 41
But the fact should carefully be noted that Buddhism's
most notable accomplishment, namely, the evangelization and
the assimilation of China and Japan into the great block of
humanity which has become known as "the Orient," was
accomplished by the Mahayana Branch of Buddhism; this
"Greater Vehicle" has revered Buddha as being nothing less
than divine, whereas the Hinayana or Lesser Vehicle Branch
of Buddhism, which saw in him only a remarkably wise
human teacher, has become almost extinct in the land of its
birth.
Exceedingly remarkable is the transformation which has
taken place in the later theological development of Buddhism.
The Buddhist documents report various incidents which
indicate that Buddha,was genuinely human, subject to common
sickness and death even after his great "enlightenment."
"Now, when the Blessed One had eaten the food pre-
pared for him by Kunda, the worker in metal, there fell
upon him a dire sickness, the disease of dysentery; and a
sharp pain came upon him, even unto death." (Maha-
PariniHbana Sutta 4. 21; SEE n. 72.)
But his loving disciples felt unbounded admiration for
the person who had considered it not a thing to be grasped
after, to remain on the equality of a kind. Instead he had
voluntarily relinquished his*royal inheritance in the interests
of something better than the current religion; and then for
wellnigh half a century he made himself as one of the common
folk of the world for the sake of their salvation. His conduct
and character impressed his followers as being
"so unequalled in the world, so mild, so kind. And he
held before him aims so high and endeavours so grand!"
(Milinda-Panha 4. i. 41; SBE 35. 178.)
He was
"
a king of universal kings, a conqueror." (Sutta-
Nipata 552; SBE 10. 2. 102.)
Such emotional admiration for Buddha as perfect grew into
formal adoration of him as being theologically divine, superior
even to the gods of Hinduism,
42 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
"The noblest of men, like Indra himself." (Buddha-
Carita 5. 45; SEE 49. i. 56.)
"The heavenly beings, with Brahma at their head, went
and worshipped him, propitiating his favour/' (Buddha-
Carita 17. i; SEE 49. i. 190.)
"Gods and men will worship him as 'the Great One
that hath transcended time.' Nor is there, in the world
with its gods, anyone Thy equal." (Iti-vuttaka 112;
J. H. Moore's translation, The Sayings of Buddha,
132-133.)
Although Buddha himself was a simple, humble, self-
effacing individual, who eschewed philosophic and theological
speculations, yet the documents of the Northern Branch,
which carried Buddhism through the Far East, have presented
him as a Being far greater than the individual who for six
years sought enlightenment, and who at his death passed
into an inaccessible Nirvana. Buddhism became an inter-
national religion unquestionably when Buddha's own
personage was reconstructed into a veritable deity. In
the later documents he is
presented as pre-existent, planfully
incarnate, supernaturally conceived, miraculously born
(Warren, Buddhism in Translations, 42. 46), as sinless, yet
suffering inexplicably (Milinda-Panha 4. i. 62. 66; SEE
35. 190-195), as having entered the world with a redemptive
purpose (Sad-Dharma-Pundarika 2. 36; SEE 21. 40), as
all-knowing and all-seeing (SDP 2. 39. 42; SEE 21. 44.
118. 121), as Saviour of gods and men (SDP 5; SEE 21.
119-120), "He is
everlasting" (SDP 15 ;
SEE 21. 302).
A sympathetic and discriminating examination of the two
apparent exceptions, namely, Jainism and Buddhism, seems
to me, not to nullify, but rather to verify, my summary defini-
tion, namely, that religion, even though it
may start from non-
theistic beginnings, does eventually, if not originally, involve
belief in some kind of deity. At what precise stage a system
of non-theistic ethics passes over into an unmistakable religion
by reason of postulating a helping God, it is difficult to state
chronologically or genetically. However, the history of
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION 43
Jainism and of Buddhism would seem to show how there
have been some admirably strong men repelled by the weak
and unworthy beliefs and practices of some professed re-
ligionists; and how these sturdy religious reformers have
sought to advocate more vigorous methods of self-saving
salvation involving definite social benefits; yet the great
masses,of men, even the professed followers of those gallant,
self-reliant, humanitarian leaders, have derived greater satis-
faction from a type of religious faith which postulates some
veritable divine Power which is
superhuman, even though
quasi-human. The very earnestness of their loyalty to a person
or to a principle or to a cause which evinces enthusiasm and
sacrifice for something more than themselves will in due time
demand a belief in a helping God. That eminent psychologist,
the late Professor William James, whose learned book on The
Varieties of Religious Experience was a pioneer in this very
field of comparative psychology of religion, corroborates
psychologically the generalization which I have drawn as an
historian of The World's Living Religion concerning the
permanent unsatisfyingness of disbelief in a divine Power in
the world.
"The capacity of the strenuous mood lies so deep down
among our natural human possibilities that, even if there
were no metaphysical or traditional grounds for believing
in God, men would postulate one simply as a pretext for
living hard and getting out of the game of existence its
keenest possibilities of zest." (The Will to Believe^
213.)
Having taken a long time to maintain that nowhere has
there been a lasting system which could be called a religion
without faith in some kind of God, I must next undertake
briefly, yet pointedly, to point out that the characteristics of
divinity as taught among the religions of the world differ con-
siderably on five momentous problems. The religions of the
world differ among themselves concerning the mathematics
of the deity, i.e. whether there is
only one deity or whether
there is more than one. They differ concerning personality,
44 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
whether the Supreme Being is
personal or impersonal. They
differ on the question whether the power of Supreme Deity
is unlimited or is limited; if the latter, whether the limitation
operates from outside itself, or from honourable inner moral
considerations, such as deference for the moral independence
of human beings who are to be trained in the exercise of moral
responsibility. Religions differ on the exercise of genuine
moral responsibility in the Godhead, i.e. whether the deity is
unaccountably and essentially arbitrary, or is
planfully re-
sponsible. Religions differ concerning the chief moral
excellence of the deity, whether it is
supremely just,
or is
supremely loving; i.e. whether the Divine Being exercises
only retributive justice,
or also exercises a love which is
redemptively forgiving.
Along with these variable elements there should be noted
five constant elements in the concept of deity.
Every religion which has survived has taught that the
character of the supremely Divine Being or Person is
super-
human, even though in some respects quasi-human. Men
have not for long subordinated themselves and given faith and
worship and devotion to any object which is
essentially
inferior to themselves. Men thoroughly revere, and derive
benefit from, only what is better than themselves, even
though they may be moved to deal variously with various
adversaries in the world.
God is
supersensuous or invisible, even though in some
respects mediated or represented by material objects. Real
religion and thorough-going materialism are directly opposed
to one another. In the highest type of religion, material
things and even evanescent things can be made beautiful, and
can carry religious value. But the object or objects of supreme
value to religion are transcendent above all that the five senses
can disclose.
God is
controlling in the affairs of men, even though the
divine Power may temporarily allow other forces to work.
Religion of course develops some highly intellectual theories,
even as does philosophy. But the distinctive object of religion
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION 45
is a distinctly powerful Being, experience wherewith produces
power for the believing worshipper.
God is
responsive to the approaches of the religious in-
dividual, even though the responses may be different from
what the ordinary human may desire or expect. Religion
assumes the efficacy of a proper technique in
attaining unto
the knpwledge of deity and in obtaining response from deity.
But the most profoundly religious person testifies that he
derives his greatest benefit from his religion, because he has
found the clue to an interacting response between himself
and the Divine in the world.
God is
supremely worthful, worshipful, adorable. Religion
is not satisfied merely with evolving theories or with going
through the motions of submission and worship. The finest
type of religion discovers, and manages to increase, the values
which are inherent in one's self and in the world, by the
process of establishing due connections with the Being or
Beings which are of supreme value, and which evoke such
emotions as awe, reverence, trust, obedience, co-operation,
love.
Thus far I have emphasized the essential elements of the
divine Power or Powers in the world. Next I would emphasize
the religionist's connection with other human beings as another
essential constituent.
From a careful inspection of the broad history of religion
as well as of present-day religion, we perceive that in every
religion proper human relationships are an important feature,
even though a varying feature, of religion. If the divine
Power is conceived of as an Impersonal Being or Process,
then the appropriate experience flowing therefrom is that the
religionist himself tends to depersonalize his life and to dis-
associate himself from other human personalities. On the
other hand, if the Supreme Being represents personality
raised to the highest degree, then the result of such faith tends
to elevate the worshipper's own personality and also to put
him into very happy and helpful relations with other human
personalities. However, we may generalize at this point, and
46 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
assert, that every kind of religion, whatever be the type of
philosophy and theology which it
may avow, has also involved
an ethic. To be finely religious means to live in the proper
relation towards deity, and also to live in the finest possible
relationship with fellow-men. However abstract and im-
personal may be the religionist's theology, yet the closer
interpenetration of social relations in the world today requires
that religions shall produce votaries who are as helpful as
possible both to their immediate associates and also to members
of other religions. Through the increasing power of religion,
there must henceforth cease all
persecution of other religions
and even of irreligion. Very strongly do I plead that an
increasingly obvious need and open method for all
religionists
today is that we should increasingly strive to appreciate, to
appropriate, and to share the finest experiences of all the
religions in the world, and even of all
persons who make no
profession of religion. I submit that the finest type of religion
succeeds in leading its followers to be the more humble,
patient, sympathetic, serviceful, learningful. Even more than
secular education and commerce, we religionists should
exercise the high privilege and responsibility of religion to
explore, to export, and to import the very best "goods" which
can be found anywhere in the world.
Perhaps the greatest need is to practise the finest kind of
religion oneself and then to help mediate it to others. Religion
can indeed be taught. But religion should be lived lived
with winsomeness and with healing power! At the present
time the life of the world is being sorely strained, even while
it is being partly enriched by various developments, such as
psychological analyses, philosophic and theological recon-
structions, educational techniques, social readjustments,
economic pressures, international interrelations. In this total
situation one of the most pressing needs of man, and one of
the grandest opportunities for religion, is to develop the type
of religion in individuals and in groups which is characterized
by the enjoyment of abundant opportunities, by the fulfilment
of honourable responsibilities, by the possession of inner
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION 47
resources, by the forth-putting of beneficial co-operation.
This urgent need is
especially needed in the matter of religions
helping forward the great cause of peace and the abolition of
war. On different aspects of this momentous theme let me
present systematically some passages quoted from the sacred
scriptures of six of the major religions of the world, namely,
Confucianism, Taoism, Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam,
Christianity.
1
SYNOPSIS OF DISCUSSION
Mrs. BISHOP (representing the International Bahai Bureau)
recalled the story told by Plutarch of the sailor who heard
the voice which cried, "When you reach Greece, tell the
people that the great god Pan is dead," and when he delivered
the message a great wail arose from the people because their
god was dead and they had to search for a living god. This
story was a prophecy of our times when the god of theologies
and sects was dead and we had to search for the living God.
The Bahai point of view was based on the words of
Baha'u'llah to his western followers, "I come to give you
no new religion but to rekindle the fading embers of your
faith." Each of the religions represented in the Congress
were following a leader or a founder whom they had not
seen but from whose wisdom they benefited. From the
Bahai point of view these religions were best understood
under two aspects, the essentials and the secondaries, or
life and form, spiritual and material aspects. Under the
secondaries were included the laws, customs, manners, and
institutions; under the essentials came belief in God and in
the omnipresence of spirit,
the dignity of man, the sense of
eternity, and the practice of certain fundamental precepts
based on justice, knowledge, and love.
The speaker suggested that while religions differed in
metaphysical speculations about the nature of God, they all
agreed that Absolute Good exists, and that this vision should
1
See pp. 175-186.
48 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
be enough to bring them together. The purpose of the
Congress was not to emphasize the secondary aspects of
religion, for when these were emphasized out of proportion
to the essentials there was strife, which is a travesty of
religion. When the essentials were emphasized a focus was
created for power which could then be directed towards
the world as a whole as an influence bringing about the
recognition that the world's supreme need was a spiritual
need, and releasing an energy which would ,be the basis for
a new culture. It was in the shared experience of religion
that we could clarify essentials and practise them.
Mrs. DANK said that it was always a revelation to hear
about other religions and find them like to one's own. The
call for religion, whether it come from within or without,
could only be answered adequately through the essentials of
religion. One of these essentials was an inspired witness
and testimony to the existence of God. Every religion had
been drawn from some such witness by an outstanding
personality whose experience had come from an intense
longing for God, from a deep concern with God* for God's
sake and not for the satisfaction of their own needs. There
was at the present time a looking-forward to future mani-
festations of God, a belief that God would appear again.
The speaker believed that to see God in our time might
not mean the descent of God but the rising of man through
his will to reach God.
Mrs. RHYS DAVIDS (Pali Text Society) said that she was
unable to follow the lecturer when he called Jainism or
Buddhism anti-theistic. The Jainist Scriptures from which
he quoted were much later than the date of the birth of that
movement, nor could Buddhism at its start be called anti-
theistic. Its founder's first public utterance was an echo 'of
the current Upanishad teaching that the self should be
"thoroughly sought after." In that day the accepted
religion of Immanence saw God as in the self of each man
and made Atma replace largely the impersonal Brahman.
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION 49
And in the Buddha's latest utterances was the injunction to
"live as they who have the self (Atma) as lamp, as refuge,
and none other." He had always added, "Live as they who
have Dharma as lamp . .
.," Dharma being the ideal, the
conscience in man as a more dynamic concept than the static
concept of self, his gospel being eminently concerned with
man's growth. It was the aftermen who fell
away from this
theistic position.
Dr. KOLISKO said he had been impressed with the proof
that had been given that there could be a universal religion
and that it must be rooted in the individual. The religious
life was in contradiction with modern economic life, and if
we could make this less influenced by materialism it
might
be easier to introduce religion into modern life.
Dr. Kolisko referred to the letter that had appeared that
morning in the Press, from King Leopold of the Belgians,
inviting all sections of all nations to co-operate in seeking a
solution of world economic problems. This seemed to be
connected with the work of the Congress, because if from
the side of economics there arose an appeal for the help of
religious and philosophic bodies, we could feel that from all
sides the needs of humanity were coming together, and that
this gave great hope for world fellowship.
Mr. ALAN WATTS also referred to the possibility of error
in assuming that Buddhism was an anti-theistic
religion.
The insistence that man must make himself good and that
no outside force could help him was based on the realization
that the true self of man was Buddhahood, was Godhead all
the time, and that this life was the divine life all the time.
This implied that every act of ordinary life was a supreme
religious experience. Ordinary life was an extremely mys-
terfous thing, but we were inclined to look beyond it for
religious experience because it worried us to think that
something so familiar was really the thing about which we
knew least. Most religions said in some form or other:
"Become what you are." They apparently denied the world,
50 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
but this was not really so. Ultimately one came to see that
ordinary life was not a mirage, but a mirror of the Supreme
life.
Mr. ARTHUR JACKMAN (Secretary, World Congress of
Faiths) said that when he had first met Dr. Hume in con-
nection with this Congress he had said that the Committee
regarded the subject of this address as the heart and crux of
the Congress, and Dr. Hume had dealt with it as such. He
had shown that the various religions of the world had behind
them the same fundamental and essential truth, which was,
that we are all children of the One Father in process of
growing up within the family of divinity. From that point
of view all the religions of the world were merely emphases
on the different stages of growth. Therefore in Congresses
such as this we were not seeking to create something out
of nothing; we were seeking to create an emotion or a
medium whereby that 'which was true and inherent in the
religions could find a normal, natural, and free expression
among people who had, at least in some measure, glimpsed
the oneness of human endeavour. The Congress of Faiths
sought to give an opportunity for the free expression of
spiritual fellowship.
Sir ABDUL QADIR referred to the differences in the con-
cepts of God in the various religions, and in the ways in
which those concepts were placed before their followers.
The reason was that each teacher was addressing his audience
according to their standard of intelligence. It was only when
one came to the plane of the mystic in any religion that one
reached the plane where all
religions found agreement in
essentials. This had been beautifully illustrated by two
Persian poets :
There is but one Reality shining in Islam and Non-Islam ;
Differences of religions are mere speculation ;
Prejudice has separated the cup of the Brahmin and the Sheikh,
Otherwise there is but one Cup and one Cup-bearer.
THE ESSENTIALS OF RELIGION 51
CONCEPTS OF GOD
Thou art the shelter of the height and of the depth;
All are "nothing";
Any being that exists, it is Thou.
NIZAMI.
Thou art the Height and the Depth ;
I do not know what Thou art,
But Thou art all that exists.
FIRDAUSI.
Dr. R. E. HUME (summing up): "I think we have
accomplished this morning something of this search for a
common understanding and that we are determined to love,
and can agree to differ by acknowledging that we know in
part and prophesy in part, while at the same time asserting a
confident expectation that we shall grow in knowledge and
by such growth shall benefit the cause of world fellowship.
We came here with high expectations of delightful inter-
change and friendliness. We shall go forth from here with
renewed dedication and the realization that even if we do
differ in terminology, nevertheless our religion is
bringing
us closer together here and now, and that we can overcome
differences by loving service to humanity under the power
of an influence that is
greater than ourselves, the influence of
the Kingdom of God in which we can all
participate."
YOUTH'S ATTITUDE TO WORLD
FELLOWSHIP
YOUTH SYMPOSIUM,
Saturday Afternoon,
July 2^th.
YOUTH'S ATTITUDE TO WORLD
FELLOWSHIP
Sir A. RAMASWAMI MUDALIAR (in the Chair)
I hope you will permit me to say how much I appreciate
the purpose of this Congress. Its ideas all seem to be of
the utmost importance. It is true that the major conflicts
of the world have been due to differences of religious creed.
It is therefore a very wonderful thing that a World Congress
of Faiths can be held and that there can be the intention to
make it an annual affair.
I feel also that it is a special privilege to take the Chair
when we are to hear some of our young speakers. The
world today is moved by the spirit of youth. Youth has
come to dominate many policies in various countries. Youth
today is clamant and insists on solving what it considers to
be the problems of oppression and on freeing itself from
the shackles of tradition. It is
perfectly true that young men
today are imbued with the spttit of earnestness.
This Congress has put forward the idea that true religion
can secure the peace of the world. It will be interesting to
hear from these young men whether it
appears to them that
behind all social regeneration there must be spiritual re-
generation; whether they consider that the moving spirit
must be and must continue to be the spirit which faith gives
to all of us, whatever our creed may be.
BRIAN COOK
I am speaking this afternoon as one in no way particularly
qualified to do so; I am speaking merely as one of the many
55
56 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
millions of young men and women who are anxious about
the future, and are beginning to wonder precisely what they
can do and what part they can play in the future of mankind.
We were born into a very troubled world. The early
years of our life were clouded by the catastrophe of the
Great War a war of which we can only remember very
little, if
anything at all, and through that war the generation
in front of us was virtually wiped out: young men who
today would have been in responsible positions of govern-
ment. This is not to suggest that those who are governing
now are too old for their job. What I mean is that now,
twenty years after the war, we find ourselves in a position
of having to take the place of those who have gone, and of
having to do, as well as to think and to say, something about
this future.
I can only speak from my own point of view, particularly
as I am not attached to any group or organization, but I
feel and hope that this point of view is shared by many in
this country and in Canada and America, where I was
fortunate to spend several months at the beginning of this
year. In order to define what this attitude is, I am going to
ask myself and try to answer three questions :
1. Is world fellowship an unpractical ideal?
2. If not, how far have we gone towards world
fellowship ?
3. How can we further the cause of world fellowship?
In answering those questions I want to keep in mind a
certain aspect. I want to answer them, bearing in mind what
they mean in relation to the peace of the world.
1. Is world fellowship an unpractical ideal? That can
be answered in one word : No.
2. In passing straight to the second question I want to
explain why I think people are wrong who say that you cannot
change human nature. Although the fears, the differences,
the mistrust which exist in the world today always existed
and always will exist, we have not to go very far back in
YOUTH'S ATTITUDE TO WORLD FELLOWSHIP 57
history to find that the differences were much, much greater
even in this country not long ago. Then we found various
sections in this small island fighting each other for their
various creeds and beliefs. Yet we can say today that in
England there is
unity and fellowship with at the same time
the freedom to express our individuality, to say what we like
as far as our creeds are concerned.
It is obvious that through the centuries the world has been
gradually growing towards this fellowship ideal, and more
progress has been made in the last twenty years than ever
before. But in the middle of the period from 1900 to the
present day this progress received the greatest set-back it has
ever had the World War. Since then we have made great
strides. If we lived now in the same kind of world as we did
in 1914, could we have survived all these crises which have
happened in the last few months? Could we have come
through all those if there had not been a little more fellowship
than before the war? Haven't we found in the last two years
that things have happened which before would have provoked
a war? . Somehow today there has been born at the bottom
of men's souls that feeling of tolerance and fellowship which
says : Let us get together before we rush into any action.
There is
something else that is different Youth. How
many meetings like this were held before 1914? I do not
think there were very mafiy. Meetings like this are going on
all over the world today. I came across them in nearly every
large city in Canada; people getting together and saying to
themselves : We are not going to let it
happen again. They
are all rather doubtful as to how they can prevent it, but unlike
the young men of 1914, and knowing very little about the
war, we are not going to rush into something which does not
require very much imagination to show what it would mean.
I want to say something about Canada. In some of those
towns out there you will find members of every nationality
in Europe living together with goodwill and friendship,
having their own form of government, their own religions,
and yet with no serious arguments or very grave differences.
58 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
This is the case particularly in Winnipeg, and also in the East
where people say that French Canadians and British Canadians
do not get on well together. The whole position in Canada
today is a veritable object-lesson to the rest of the world as to
how different groups can live together, and this is
very largely
due to the fair judgment and consideration which each receives
from the British Government.
The youth of Canada and America are anxious to do
something. We have watched during these last
twenty years
almost every possible attempt to bring the world together.
We have watched magnificent efforts by such men as Laval,
Stresemann, and others, and the Disarmament Conference, the
Kellogg Pact and, greatest of all, the League of Nations. I
cannot remember much of what I learned at school, but I shall
never forget a remark which one master made to me: "You
will always appreciate the things in life which have been the
hardest to achieve." Why should we say that the League is a
failure if it has failed to do everything that we expected of it ?
Do we not profit by experience ? I think it is more necessary
at this time than at any other to give it our whole-hearted
support.
It is sometimes hard to believe that the world is not crazy,
with armaments piling up, but I believe that the world is
really marching towards fellowship, and that situations such
as we have today are set-backs sent as if to try out our faith
in an ideal that will be realized. Have we not all
got the will
to try to do something which has never been done before?
And where there is a will there is a way.
3. How can we further the cause of world fellowship?
How can we replace those antagonistic feelings, those fears
which do exist in individuals and nations today ? I mentioned
disarmament. Surely, what we need is moral disarmament. If
only we can remove the feelings which are behind and which
provoke this hatred and antagonism, then at least we are
going a long way towards what we seek. It will be necessary
to rearm in another way to rearm with faith and to have
behind us a
spiritual fellowship.
YOUTH'S ATTITUDE TO WORLD FELLOWSHIP 59
There' is one thing that is common among all men and
women Religion. It is rather hard for some people to admit
that, but if we just consider it for a moment we shall see that
there is at the bottom of every man's soul the longing for
something or somebody to look up to. It varies with different
people naturally, but don't you feel that everyone has a faith
in something which is
underlying their movements, their
feelings, their thoughts ? That is faith, and I think that without
faith the mind is at sea on every single issue. It is above
everything else. I expect some of you would find it as hard
to describe as I do now, but is it not a part of our faith that
through seeking out that spiritual fellowship which lies
behind all our minds, we shall find the way to world fellow-
ship ? Such an ideal is greater than love for one's own country.
May I read you something which was said by Father de
Munnyck at Geneva some years ago on the subject of
patriotism :
"In the place of noble patriotism we too often substitute
its loathsome travesty Nationalism. Patriotism is an
instinct of all
right-thinking men and women in the same
way as love for our parents. We must love our country,
we must defend it, we must serve it, not because it is finer
or stronger than others, but because it is our country, our
mother.
"But above country,jwe must love God, who is Truth,
who is Justice. When a man begins to love country above
Truth and Justice, he degrades his Fatherland."
I have tried to show very briefly that I feel, whether I
represent a large number of people or only myself, that we
can achieve world fellowship and peace through religion. We
are young; our minds are fresh and not full of prejudices.
I think we should be able to start with a clean slate, wiped
clear of the differences between nations and individuals. To
create world fellowship is a task that may take more than
my lifetime or my children's lifetime, but that should not
deter us from pushing on. When we do come to it, won't
its ideal be just the one word, faith, with everyone keeping
<5o THE WORLD'S NEED OF
his own individuality and creed? This Congress is one
of the most important steps taken towards it. It is a task
that I am sure the young people of this country will welcome.
Let us carry it out without any national snobbery nor yet
any imperial snobbery, but with the justice and the con-
sideration for which we, as a nation, are renowned, so that
we shall build Jerusalem not only in this green and pleasant
land, but in every land all over the world.
GABRIEL CARRIT
This great gathering of people of different faiths bears
witness to the urgent desire of old and young to realize world
brotherhood and peace. One might express the spirit
of your
Congress in the words of the old verse :
Lord make the Nations see
That men should brothers be.
And form one family,
The wide world o'er.
In a similar spirit my organization sets out "to achieve
international peace and security by a Covenant of the League
of Nations "; and Mr. Gollan here has often sung, "The
International unites the human race."
We must not forget in our longings that at this very
moment wars of invasion are taking place in Spain and China;
the ordinary people of Germany and Italy are being sent to
destroy the ordinary people of Spain; the people of Japan are
sent to China; race is set against race, and creed against
creed.
Whatever we may long for War is on. What are we
to do ? That is what Youth is asking.
In every land where I have lately been, in England, America,
Germany, Spain, Austria, Czechoslovakia, everywhere, a
feeling of anxiety is eating at people's hearts, anxiety about
bread and work, about future prospects for their children,
about personal, religious, and political freedom. We are
afraid of losing that freedom which enables us to devote
YOUTH'S ATTITUDE TO WORLD FELLOWSHIP 6l
our bodies, minds, and spirits to their true purpose of human
happiness and welfare.
We are horrified with the cruelty of a world in which
one political system preaches the calculated annihilation of
the Jewish people, persecutes all who hold pacifist or
democratic ideas, civilizes a backward native people with
poison gas, and destroys the population of Durango and
Guernica under the ruins of churches and dwelling-houses.
We are troubled that men can sit still
knowing of the
economic chaos which permits cows to be slaughtered for
manure; wool to be used for road-making; fish to be
thrown back dead to the sea; while in every one of our
countries are men and women, classified by medical officers
of health as inadequately nourished, badly nourished, seriously
undernourished; and while thousands of young people are
pining away in unemployment.
This situation hangs over us like doom. We feel that
something must happen; and we are afraid that it will be
war. War as a way out, and yet in every land young people
know that for them war is no way out.
Facing such grave times, we are realizing the necessity of
banding ourselves together, in spite of our different creeds
and political theories, in order to save ourselves from war
before it is too late.
Great difficulties and danger stand in the way, but to help
us we have the knowledge that in each land young men and
women have the same simple interests and ideals, the same
sympathy for the rights of others, the same belief in the
possibility of harnessing science and industry to the needs
of a new and ordered life. And because it is our existence
which is at stake we shall overcome the selfish interests and
prejudices of those who would prevent us uniting to carry
out this task.
In September 1936 seven hundred young people from
thirty-six different nations, representing many faiths and
political parties, met in Geneva for the first World Youth
Congress.
62 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
We met in order to fulfil our responsibility and to play
our part in the organization of peace through the League
of Nations, to work for Social Justice and the defence of the
Welfare and prospects of Youth, and to seek out the common
ground on which the Youth of all lands and all
opinions could
join to achieve their ends.
We found it was possible to draft such a programme,
and now, in those lands where the delegates have set up
committees, the programme is
being carried out under the
guidance of the International Youth Secretariat which sits
in Geneva.
It is therefore of great interest to the Youth Movement
to be invited to speak at this Congress, because, while we
wish you to know what we are doing and feeling, we know,
for our part, that you can help us by encouraging the Youth
in the different churches to play their part in the movement
for peace and social justice.
Those who take upon themselves to lead the Youth dare
not hold them back from joining their generation to preserve
peace.
The man who is first and foremost devoted to religion
cannot today honestly escape from the politics of peace and
freedom.
Not long ago one of the leaders of the young Catholics
in Germany said to me: "I am, with my whole being, a
Catholic ; it is
just because I am a Catholic that I must work
for peace, and just because I am a Christian I am morally
obliged to work against a system which corrupts and perverts
every principle that I hold dear/'
That duty lies on every one of you here, to work for
peace, to oppose intolerance and aggression. The Youth
of every land is
waiting for a lead.
JOHN GOLLAN
I profess no religious faith whatever, but nevertheless I
hold the principle of world fellowship very dear. In my
YOUTH'S ATTITUDE TO WORLD FELLOWSHIP 6$
opinion 'the whole question of world fellowship today has
ceased to be a mere philosophical conception, something to
which we can agree or not, and has become a very great
practical necessity. With us, in Britain, the idea of world
fellowship is one that has existed for many years and to
which many individuals and groups subscribe. We have to
ask ourselves, I think, why it is that while hundreds of
thousands of people in different countries subscribe to world
fellowship, we have advanced so little in its
practice. I think
it is because of the economic developments of society in
modern times, and particularly because of the modern division
of the world into nations of conquerors and conquered, of
colonies and metropolis.
It is
very easy, of course, for an individual in a colony
or an individual in a metropolis to subscribe to a similar
point of view and have association in world fellowship, but
it is not easy for the masses in both to subscribe to both.
Many of their interests are diametrically opposed. Principally
because of this there are extreme forms of nationalism in the
world today and much national antipathy to other nations,
although, of course, we have seen the parallel development of
forms of world fellowship in the League of Nations by
economic means, etc. More and more it seems that such
developments are inevitable.
I ask this Conference! Is it
possible for a mother in
Madrid, holding to her breast the child that has been wounded
in an air-raid, to feel much fellowship for the Germans and
Italians who are invading Spanish soil? Or for the people
of Peking to feel fellowship for the invaders whom they see
approaching their gates? It seems that a large part of the
world is at daggers drawn in spite of the aspirations of the
world towards fellowship and in spite of such Congresses as
Ihis, where individuals of different faiths come together to
find a common basis for fellowship.
Nevertheless we see other forces at work: movements
whose principles are summed up in the phrase, "A nation
which oppresses another nation can never itself be free" j
and
64 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
for whom the great question is that of trying to' develop
equality between the nations. As long as economic in-
equality exists, world fellowship will be the conception of
the few. A world fellowship of independent equal states is
the conception which we hold today and which many other
people must hold also, and we feel that the amalgamation of
nations into a world fellowship is
only possible if economic
inequality is abolished and the countries are constituted into
free economic states, developing their own national well-
being and characteristics. That is
why we in the Youth
movements are doing everything possible to build up a
fellowship of youth. We have very little of the world's
goods to lose. We can on equal terms talk with the youth
of Germany because we are not concerned with the aspirations
of the various governments. We can freely discuss our
common problems in spite of the fact that we were the
conquerors and they the conquered. We both suffer from
underfeeding and unemployment. The true necessities of
youth are directly in agreement in all the countries, providing
we have as the corner-stone, faith in the idea that each nation
is as good as any other nation and, for instance, that anti-
Semitism is an insult to humanity in its
present stage of
development.
Therefore we, in the Youth movements, are associated in
ideal with the World Congress of Faiths, and are trying to
spread understanding and the realization that if the problems
of the people of Europe and America, of Britain and Germany
are essentially the same, there is no reason why the youth
of the world cannot co-operate in the solution of these
problems. We are not necessarily bound to the foreign
policies of our countries, and we can talk apart from these
things.
In Britain the Youth organizations have combined together.
In the British Youth Assembly we have got together twenty-
seven National Youth Organizations of varied religious and
political opinions. We find the possibility and the necessity
of coming, together to discuss these problems and of trying
YOUTH'S ATTITUDE TO WORLD FELLOWSHIP 65
to work out a common basis for social advance, for peace
and fellowship.
First of all, in this committee, we had to give up any idea
of political or religious partisanship. We had to understand
the other fellow's point of view and work on those things
which we had in common. And it was only to the extent that
we did this that we could build up the necessary confidence
to go forward together.
The world is entering a situation which may or may not
end like 1914, but for the first time the Youth organizations
of Great Britain have got together before the possibility of
war has become an actuality. We hope to establish peace by
contact with the youth of other nations, and we feel that it
is only because of this national fellowship that we are going
to be able to develop the true ideals of the world today.
PRINCE KESSIE OF ASHANTI
Last year when I attended the Congress of Faiths I found
myself confronted with one and the same question : Are you
really interested in this Movement? The question was put
to me by almost everyone who talked to me. Naturally I
got the impression that I had missed my way. It was not
an encouragement to me, the more so as there were only
about four young persons. *
To the young the very word
"
Religion
"
is anathema.
It conveys the impression of sacrifice and constant praying
or bending to someone or something. As Ruskin says: "It
primarily means obedience." Hence young people detest
anything with a religious atmosphere. But should it be so ?
Are they not the rising generation of whom Christ said:
"Suffer them to come unto me"? Young persons should
by all means be encouraged to take part in the Congress of
Faiths and, if possible, to form a Youth's Fellowship of Faiths
which will be part and parcel of the Congress Movement.
Religion should, as Disraeli said, "be the rule of life and
not a casual incident in it." Let us look at it as the spice
66 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
which keeps life from corruption rather than as a means of
blind obedience.
Many a talented scholar, and especially the youth of today,
have taken up the study of the Bible and other religious
books to read, not in the humble, meek spirit
of a sincere
person, but in a proud and worldly temper, hoping to' find
some error, some anomaly at which to aim the arrow of
scepticism and infidelity. We are all familiar with the
difficulties involved in the analysis of the fundamental
doctrines of Christianity, as, for instance, the doctrines of
Baptism and of the Trinity. Every child I am not speaking
with exaggeration knows that there are many unsolved
problems in the Christian dogmas. Thus a child at a very
early age would be heard to ask such questions as, "Who
is God?" and "Who made God?" The task will be made
more difficult for us if we approach the study of religion in
such a spirit.
It will, as Hare has put it, "present many
difficulties to the proud, innumerable to the vain, but few
to the humble." We are to study religion as a means to an
end as a means to attain fellowship. Religion so far has
been made to appear more in talk than in work, but the
Congress of Faiths is
trying to prove that it lies more in
work than in talk. But it should be noted that in any move-
ment or organization, the attempt to differentiate between
races, classes, and castes in intellect, may lead to the downfall
of that organization. It is here that the Congress of Faiths
scores; it is here that the Congress of Faiths succeeds. Its
officers and members of the Council are persons of different
races. It is unlike most religions or governments, where the
leaders are drawn from one race.
Among prehistorians
there used to be a belief that racial
and religious differences were of very ancient origin. They
supported this hypothesis by saying that early man held
tenaciously to the notion that people of his tribe were
essentially different from those of other tribes. This sense
of difference was due to the primitive concept of race, and
even today many persons cling to that view. Not to go
YOUTH'S ATTITUDE TO WORLD FELLOWSHIP 67
further back than the view of Dr. Inge, it has been insisted
that races are different in mental traits as well as physical,
and that these differences are qualitative differences. Dr.
Inge further remarks that excellence in racial achievement
is a, guarantee of racial superiority. He forgets that while
one race achieves eminently, another is
depressed, and that
in time it is the other way round. I am sorry to deviate
from the main subject, but it is
important for the success
of any organization whose aim is
fellowship to think of all
human beings as having the same mental and physical traits,
and any opinion to the contrary leads to dissension. A race
is not a permanent entity, something static; on the contrary
it is
dynamic, and is
slowly developing and changing as the
result of fresh increments of one or other of its
original
constituents or of some new ones. I suggest that the question
is not one of achievement, as the ex-Dean would have us
believe, but one of native potentiality, and such potentiality
as is due to race. Again, I suggest that the hypothesis cannot
be approached philosophically or historically. It must be
attacked scientifically, for it is a question of environment. It
is therefore in the province both of the psychologist and
the anthropologist. Many psychological experiments have
been conducted to compare the mental traits of all races, one
of the most important being that conducted by Drs. Bounnet
and Woodworth at St. Louts, in America. As a result of
their investigation it was shown that practically all the sensory
processes revealed no differences, but only similarities, among
the various races. It is a question of opportunity and not
one of racial determinants.
In one of his weekly articles in the Evening Standard,
Dr. Inge remarked that Germany would sooner or later lose
her philosophical and cultural ascendancy, owing to the
Nazist's methods of oppression and deprivation of free
speech and expression. Germany would, in short, sink into
decadence. This is the correct clue, and the same reason is
applicable to the present position of the subject of oppressed
races. It was the French Revolution that paved the way
68 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
for the intellectual growth of the French peasants. In
England, before the Reform Bill of 1832, the rulers of the
country were drawn from the landed gentry, and it was the
common saying that the working classes were intellectually
inferior to the aristocracy. The Reform Bill and Franchise
Acts and the coming of the Industrial Revolution brought a
great change. Even about 1840, according to Laski's analysis,
95 per cent of the members of the cabinet were drawn from
the aristocracy. As time went on the middle-classes took
the lead, and today we are experiencing a middle-class rule,
and now one often hears of the moral and mental decadence
of the aristocracy. When Greece was ruling the Romans, the
latter were considered barbarians; and when Rome was
all-powerful, Britons were thought of as "stupid slaves."
Today Britain and the other European powers are all-
powerful, and all "coloured" persons are barbarians. Is it a
wonder, then, if Dr. Inge makes such a sweeping statement?
I am sure that if Dr. Inge had been a member of the Congress
of Faiths, he would have had a different opinion.
In the world today, and particularly in the British Empire,
fellowship is
indispensable if the thousand-and-one ills of the
world are to be eliminated or modified. One can hardly
speak of the world and leave out the British Empire, for it is
a potential factor in the cause of peace. The Empire is,
unfortunately, weak in its
joints; it is for the youth of Great
Britain to remedy that weakness. A Youth organization with
such aims and objects as the Congress of Faiths is, to my mind,
the only solution. It will be a means of overcoming moral
cowardice. Truth is
impalpable, hard and ruthless, and
therefore is shunned by those who prefer illusion; but the
ready recognition of what is
wrong is the first
step towards
rectification and reform.
The rulers of the Empire today connive at the truth, dis-
regard advice, and honour their flatterers. The sincere critic of
the British methods of government is a communist, agitator,
and a rebel worthy only of His Majesty's prison or scaffold.
But you see, those who favour the truth always win. Gandhi,
YOUTH'S ATTITUDE TO WORLD FELLOWSHIP 69
and not the Maharajas or the British bureaucracy, is
winning
India for the Indians. No honest and respectable person
likes to be ruled; if there is to be any rule at all, that rule
should be mutual; by that I mean that the Empire should be
a composition of independent member-states; that is the
only way for the Empire to survive and maintain the peace
of the world.
The disinclination to recognize the fact of life and the
truth about the "under dog" only tends to hasten the decline
of imperial power by allowing the wheels of disaster to run
downhill with the brakes off. Diogenes, the celebrated
philosopher and cynic, refused to pander to the follies of the
foolish, or flatter the vanity of the proud and mighty; he dealt
out the unvarnished truth to all alike, thereby earning the
nickname of "dog." This philosopher could not be cowed
or awed by anyone. Once Alexander stood before him and
said impressively: "I am Alexander, the great King"; "And
I," he replied, "am Diogenes, the Dog." It is this spirit that
is needed today, and it is that to which the youths of today
should direct their attention. It is such a religious zeal which
will lead to cleanliness and, as has been said by a famous
Rabbi, "Cleanliness will lead to purity, purity to godliness,
godliness to humility, and humility to the fear of sin."
SYNOPSIS OF DISCUSSION
Mr. ALAN WATTS regretted if he seemed to strike a note of
criticism if he pointed out that, with one exception, all the
speakers had asked: What are we going to do about it?
Most Youth groups seemed to be rather doubtful, but if we
rpally had the will to world fellowship it would come
about. Personally he did not find the vague idea of world
fellowship very attractive. What he wanted was fellowship
with individuals on ordinary human terms, as the best means
to getting things done.
On the question of the prevention of war, he felt that the
yo THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
best way was to forget it, and that organizations for the
prevention of it were likely to bring it about by keeping
people's minds on the subject. In any case, religious people
should not worry about it since they should know something
of eternity, and should realize that while a war might last a
certain number of years, life would continue for billions of
years, and progress would not cease for ever. It was no use
working against one special evil, such as war, which is
only
a symptom. ^The task of promoting fellowship was a task of
ages, and to/that extent it was a personal task, depending on
what each one did with his own life, and religion was the best
guide t?j right living.
D/r. SCHULTZ GAVERNITZ said that she believed the pro-
motion of world fellowship was not so much a matter of
personal understanding, but that it
depended on the establish-
ment of social and international justice.
Mr. R. C. T. EVANS said that the root of the whole matter
was the need for spiritual regeneration. By going to the main
spiritual source, peace would be found.
Mr. AYLMER MAUDE said that faith had been defined as
being faithful to something that one knew to be true, and that
if one did not know and had no reason to believe that a thing
was true, faith was of no value at all.
Mrs. NAOMI MITCHISON said that she thought all those
present were there because they wanted Good, but that people
were vague as to what they meant by that. Young people saw
it in terms of human things, and that meant that they had to
try to work out some system in which people could love one
another and live in brotherhood. This could not be if some
persons or groups were able to oppress others, and therefore
the first thing was to see that our system of life did not include
oppression. We had to ask ourselves how the various systems
worked in with our idea of the Good. If you were going to
love your neighbour as yourself, you had to think of him as
an end and not as a means. For this reason we could not
YOUTH S ATTITUDE TO WORLD FELLOWSHIP 71
%
work with nor feel brotherly towards the totalitarian state.
People needed some common loyalty and mythology, and
the loyalties and mythologies that produced the greatest good
were those whose ideal was justice, equality, and generosity.
Sir A. RAMASWAMI MUDALIAR (Chairman). In the papers
and discussion we have heard this afternoon it has been made
clear that fundamental to, and underlying, all the problems of
Youth there is the basic idea that spiritual faith is
necessary
if we are to find a solution to the ethical problems with which
we are opposed. Some have sounded a different note from
this, but it was a very high ethical note, and what is the motiv-
ating force behind an ethical ideal ?
Why should there be peace and equality in this world?
Because there is
something that binds us all, and that is the
divine element in us all.
Always there is the fight for equality,
but you can only guarantee equality of opportunity. Each
stratum of society thinks of the others in terms of superiority
or inferiority. Society is bound to be a pyramid, and this can
only be overcome by holding to the fundamental concept
that we are all children of God and that therefore it does not
matter what colour we are nor what our possessions are.
That concept will stand firm as the foundation for peace and
equality, whether economic OB national. If we think of these
problems in that light, we shall realize that the foundation of
justice is the fact of our divine kinship, and that the life which
makes us all brothers is the spiritual life.
THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
PUBLIC MEETING,
OXFORD TOWN HALL,
Saturday, July 24^.
THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
VISCOUNT SAMUEL (in the Chair)
You will have observed from our list of speakers that our
platform this evening is a very comprehensive one Christian,
Muslim, Hindu, Buddhist, Jewish; almost all the great
religions of the world are represented. None of us would
claim, I think, to have been authorized to represent any of
those faiths, but it is, a remarkable thing that five persons
drawn from such a varied background should be gathered
to speak on a single topic. All parts of the world Europe,
Asia, Africa, America are represented by members of the
Congress here. Youth and the elderly, men and women, all
schools of politics (or almost all) have their supporters among
the members of the Congress. Its appeal is indeed a com-
prehensive one.
We meet here in this ancient city of Oxford. The
traditions of seven centuries surround us, and I wonder
whether, during those seven centuries, representatives of so
many of the great religions Rave ever been gathered together
as is the case tonight. Indeed, I wonder whether it would
ever have been a possibility before. This Conference has
been the outcome of a long and painful evolution. It was
not until the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries that
religious liberty was won. The nineteenth century secured
religious toleration, although this was perhaps rather the
attitude of the politician who recently said of his rivals,
"
They are just as much entitled to be wrong as we are
entitled to be right." In religion, where so much is un-
certain, there is of course great room for honest difference
of opinion, and in the last two or three generations the view
has become widespread that differences of faith may not
75
76 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
necessarily be due to moral obliquity or deliberate perversity
of character, but may be due to loyalty to one's upbringing
or to intellectual conviction. So, after gaining religious
liberty in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries and
religious toleration in the nineteenth, perhaps we shall attain
to mutual understanding in the twentieth.
To this mutual understanding, various factors will con-
tribute the study of comparative religion, travel, contacts
of all kinds. But this liberty, toleration, understanding, do
not necessarily lead to the acceptance of the various theologies
and doctrines, nor need it
imply indifference to one's own
creed. The faiths are indeed in many points widely different.
Dr. Hume's analysis this
morning of the various faiths
showed that while there is
identity in some respects and
resemblance in others, there is definite contradiction in yet
other aspects. That being so, what is the next stage to
which the religions can be expected to proceed? May we
hope that it
may be to a reconciliation of beliefs? Even to
amalgamation? Ultimately this may be so, but I think it
must be a distant ultimate. Meanwhile, while we 2re awaiting
a synthesis of religion that may come in a later generation,
what is to happen? Are the faiths to continue looking
askance at one another, or politely ignoring one another's
existence? We cannot wait for that. The world is in a state
of peril; and when a ship is adrift with rudder gone and fire
smouldering in the hold, it is advisable that the passengers
should join in trying to save the situation, even though they
may not have been formally introduced to each other.
As things are, there is little movement. There are con-
versations and conferences and the realization that some-
thing must be done; but nothing happens. As someone has
said: "Nothing gets done but how magnificently!"
l
.
It is
very easy to formulate desires, and it is
very easy
to write history; but as Maxim Gorky said: "Everybody
knows that it is much harder to turn word into deed than
deed into word." To turn ideas into events is
very difficult,
but that is our task.
THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION 77
In a soihewhat separate sphere of activity an initiative has
just been taken by the King of the Belgians, who has made
an appeal to the whole world. He has written a public
letter,
1
in which he appeals for a fundamental inquiry into
the economic problems of the nations as the best means to
the solution of political problems. If such a plan can work in
with the machinery already set up by the League of Nations,
it
appears to me to be a proposal which should command the
active support of all who desire the pacification of the world,
that there should be an eager response from all those who are
keenly interested in the promotion of world peace.
What, then, is to be our course in the future? Is it to be
animosity, aloof indifference, or is it to be co-operation? If
in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries we won religious
liberty, and religious toleration in the nineteenth century,
and if we are gaining understanding in the twentieth century,
is it to be left to the twenty-first century before we develop
the sense of fellowship and active co-operation?
We in this Movement are anxious to establish that co-
operation now. Let us then see the human race as two
thousand millions of people travelling mysteriously on a
planet through space-time, and let us answer the simple
question, What are to be our relations with one another?
Pandit A. B. &OSVAMI (Hindu)
As a religious preacher it is
my first
duty to invoke the
blessings of the Divine Grace for the eternal welfare of
humanity as a whole and of all terrestrial beings.
Our subject today is "The World's Need of Religion."
By explaining the two words World and Religion the
problem may automatically be solved.
'In the Bible I find "World" has been used to signify
"the ungodly," and Hindu Scriptures maintain that this is
really the case. The material world is the sphere of active
opposition to the Absolute. The materialists
scarcely admit
1
See Daily Press, July 24th, 1937,
78 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
of the need of religion. The Hindu Scriptures
'
insist that
man must pass from "Biraja," or the sphere of universal
scepticism, through "Brahmaloke," or the sphere of the dim
reflection of transcendental knowledge, until we come face
to face with the Personality of God in the region of religion.
Religion transcends all mundane references and relativities.
It is the proper function of the soul. It remains latent in all
conditioned and dormant souls and becomes manifest when
they are awakened through the influence of true devotees or
through insight into revealed Scriptures. The religious
function proper does not begin until a person has reached
the plane of positive spiritual realization of the Absolute
Personality through a systematic process of cumulative,
strictly regulated endeavour on the right lines. The teleo-
logical reason for making such endeavour is that it is on the
plane of spiritual service to the One Absolute Person that
the present warring interests of conditioned humanity can
find a universally acceptable solution.
Hindu Scriptures cry aloud, "Cast off your weakness and
know the infinite power that is in you. Gird up% your loins;
waken your dormant soul and seek your eternal welfare."
Jesus also said, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and all
these things shall be added unto you." If we do not first
seek the Kingdom of God we cannot possibly establish peace
and harmony in this world.
Let me, in consonance with the Scriptures, remind you that
we are capable of bringing about the golden age in this world
if we care to respond to the Divine call and to grapple with
the demon of inertia dwelling in us. Let us ignite our poor
inert souls with a spark from those great illuminated souls
who have realized their own Selves and become whole-time
servants of the Great Lord the true devotees. This is not
any national or political or military call to arms or to violence.
It is
just the opposite. A spiritual hero is not incited by any
deed of daring like a military hero. The arena in which he
acts is not that of strife or aggression but of endurance and
self-sacrifice to all beings, including the lower animals. For
THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION 79
in obedience to the Law of Return, the pain I inflict upon
another animal will come back to me, and the happiness I
give to another will vibrate back to me, adding to my own
happiness. The world has trampled on this great vision, and
so the world is unhappy.
Experience shows that people with all the miracle of
material progress find themselves empty-handed in more
senses than one, and the greatest thinkers are realizing more
and more the truth of the saying of the Lord Jesus: "Man
liveth not by bread alone." People who may be the richest
in worldly possessions may be the poorest in the things that
really matter. Have we not higher interests to pursue, higher
duties to perform ? What is a man profited if he gain the
whole world and lose his own soul? Our neglect of the soul
cannot but entail spiritual poverty or even spiritual starvation.
We are not sent into this world to follow our own bent, to
indulge merely in self-satisfaction. The whole constitution
of Nature works against this idea of life. The mind should
never be held in subjection to the lower parts of our nature.
Such a principle prevailing in society can lead to nothing
less than utter demoralization individual, national, spiritual.
We must muzzle the brute in us in company with true devotees
who can light our way to the goal by the effulgence of their
spiritual power.
Without devotion man cannot establish his soul in purity
and tranquillity. All efforts, however great, to achieve this
end dwindle into insignificance when they are translated into
action. Just as a circle is
imperfect without a centre, and
myriads of cipher carry no value without the initial
integer,
one, so when the One without a second, the universal centre,
God, is
ignored, all our attempts in any sphere of life become
null and void. The slightest deviation from the devotion
to. the Central Figure of All-Love is liable to end in moral
leprosy, chaotic disorder, and disruptive destruction just in
the same way that a circle without a centre becomes an
irregular figure.
The miseries of this world led people desirous of securing
80 THE WORLD'S NEED~OF RELIGION
eternal happiness to the search after the self, which in turn
led to philosophy. The first
philosophy of a people is its
religion. Religion is often confounded with certain things
which are only adjuncts to it or are the results of its influence.
True religion is not a state of mind in which some theological
propositions are accepted as true, but it is the real function
of the soul towards the real and constant Presence of God,
involving a sure trust in His Majesty, Might, Glory, Beauty,
Wisdom, and Supremacy, the real nature of which only
reveals itself when we offer our service and show a constant
desire for unconditional obedience to His Blessed Will with
all the resources with which He has endowed us. In Hindu
Scriptures, "Dharma," or religion, means "true eternal
nature." Liquidity is the Dharma of water. Solidity is the
Dharma of stone. Heat is the Dharma of fire. When water
becomes frozen into snow or ice, its
original property of
liquidity is not lost but remains latent. Solidity is occasional
and foreign to water. Similarly true religion or love for God
remains in latent form in the heart of all conditioned souls.
The moment we look back to God and begin to serve Him,
the ice melts our adamantine heart melts. I
say 'adamantine,
because the heart is
certainly stony which does not respond
to God, Who is
constantly pouring out on us His blessings
and His help for the fulfilment of the best in us. When it
melts, the soul's function begins to act. The soul is a divine
spark, an infinitesimal atom compared with the Over-soul.
Religion is a process of self-purification. It
implies a faith
in a living and a loving God. If we hold God as impersonal,
the question of love ceases, as love is not possible with a
nonentity. Love can have place only when the lover and
the beloved are real entities. Our Vedic religion teaches us
unflinching devotion to Krishna, which can only be under-
stood by those fortunate few devotees who are initiated by
Sat-Gurus; others are led through wandering mazes by their
rhetorical and philosophical intricacies.
OM HARIH OM
THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION 81
MAUNG AYE MAUNG (Buddhist)
MY LORD, BROTHERS AND SISTERS, At the very outset
I must express my deep sense of gratitude to the members
of the Executive Committee of the World Congress of Faiths
for giving me an opportunity of addressing you this evening
on " The World's Need of Religion."
Today the world is torn by strife and warfare. On all
sides we see chaos and confusion. The political, social, and
economic condition at the moment has been so strained that
there is
danger of a world war breaking out sooner or later.
Civilization is in the melting-pot. At this time of universal
confusion the world is
badly in need of a guiding religious
spirit which will promote international peace.
More than ever the world is in confusion owing to wrong
views (Miccha Ditthi). Right understanding (Samma Ditthi)
is a necessary basis of all individual and national right action.
Sound reason and good judgment unbiased by personal
feelings and emotions are the essential
prerequisite for right
views. In the Kalama Sutta the Buddha said: "Do not
believe anything on mere hearsay. Do not accept traditions
simply because they are old and have been handed down for
many generations and in many places. Do not hastily
conclude 'it
may be so.
5
Do not believe anything because
people talk a great deal aboi^t it. Do not accept a statement
on the ground that it is found in our books. Do not believe
in what you have fancied, thinking that because it is extra-
ordinary it must have been inspired by a god or other
wonderful being. Do not accept on the supposition that
'this is
acceptable/ Do not believe anything merely because
presumption is in its favour. Do not accept because your
informant is
worthy to be trusted. Do not believe anything
merely on the authority of your teachers. But whatever,
after thorough investigation and reflection, is found to agree
with reason and experience as conducive to the good and
benefit of one and all and of the world at large, that only
accept as true, and shape your life in accordance therewith."
82 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
/
The fundamental causes of the present world chaos are greed
(Loba), hatred (Dosa), and delusion (Moha). The Buddha
said: "The world is on fire! On fire with what? On fire
with greed, hatred, delusion, rebirth, old age, disease, death,
sorrow, lamentation, grief, misery, and despair." The religion
of the Buddha is the suppression ofgreed, hatred, and delusion.
How are they to be suppressed? "Meditation on imperma-
nence (Anicca) leads to victory over greed; meditation on
suffering (Dukkha) leads to the destruction of hatred; medita-
tion on the non-existence of an immortal soul or self (Anatta)
leads to the cessation of selfishness/' The Great War of 1914-
1918 has proved once more the truth of the Buddha teaching,
that hatred ceases not by hatred; hatred ceases but by love.
According to a law of mechanics, action and reaction are
equal and opposite. The force of hatred must therefore be
checked by the opposite force, namely, the force of love.
After all, there is no world problem; there is
only the
individual problem. Nations are but collections of individuals.
There can never be world improvement without individual
improvement. When each individual realizes the fundamental
unity of mankind and consequently overflows with loving-
kindness, compassion, sympathetic gladness, and equanimity,
universal concord will automatically be created.
The root cause of lust, hatred, and delusion lies in the notion
of self (Atta). In the Anattalakhana Sutta the Buddha says that
the idea of self is a fallacy. Because of craving (Tanha), pride
(Mana), and error (Ditthi) one thinks
"
This is mine ; this am I ;
this is myself!" The ideal of religion is the destruction of
egoism. The realization of the doctrine ofAnatta, the teaching
of the non-self, is the true aim and final goal of religion. Self-
conquest is
absolutely necessary for the attainment of peace and
happiness. Self-conquest is the greatest, the highest, and the
noblest of all
conquests. In the Dhammapada the Buddha said :
If a man in battle conquers
A thousand times a thousand men,
And another conquers himself alone,
He, indeed, is the Greatest Conqueror.
THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION 83
The world needs religion, the aim and object of which is to
obtain deliverance from suffering (Dukkha). The Buddha
said :
"
One thing only do I teach now as ever, Suffering and
Deliverance from Suffering. Just as the mighty ocean has
but one taste, the taste of salt, in exactly the same way the
Mighty Dhamma has but one taste, the taste of Deliverance."
As a true scientist the Buddha analysed the world and dis-
covered that All is Suffering. The scientific method for the
destruction of suffering is to be found in pursuing the middle
path, the golden mean. What is the middle path? In the
Dhammacakkappavattana Sutta, the Buddha said: "There
are two extremes which he who strives for deliverance should
avoid. One extreme the craving for the satisfaction of the
passions and sensual pleasures is
vulgar, base, degrading, and
worthless. The other extreme exaggerated ascetism and
self-mortification is
painful, vain, and worthless. Only the
middle path which the Tathagta has found, avoids the two
wrong ways and opens the eyes, bestows insight, and leads to
wisdom, enlightenment, and deliverance.
The middle path is the Noble Eightfold Path which is
summed up in the Four Noble Truths, namely, the Noble
Truth of Suffering, the Noble Truth of the Cause of Suffering,
the Noble Truth of the Destruction of Suffering, and the Noble
Truth of the Path that leads to the Destruction of Suffering.
The Four Noble Truths have a message full of hope, which
answers to the real needs of the world.
What is the Noble Truth of Suffering? Birth is
suffering;
decay is
suffering; death is
suffering; sorrow, grief, pain, and
despair are suffering ; union with unpleasant things is
suffering ;
separation from beloved objects is
suffering; unsatisfied
desires are suffering ;
in short, the five aggressions of existence
(Khandas) are suffering.
What is the Noble Truth of the Cause of Suffering? Thirst
Craving (Tanha) is the cause of suffering.
What is the Noble Truth of the Destruction of Suffering?
Destruction of craving is the destruction of suffering.
What is the Noble Truth of the Path which leads to the
84 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
Destruction of Suffering ? The Noble Eightfold Path, namely,
right views, right aspirations, right speech, right action, right
livelihood, right endeavour, right mindfulness, and right
concentration, is the Path which leads to the destruction of
suffering.
The Noble Eightfold Path is the scientific method par
excellence for the attainment of peace and happiness. Above
all, the Noble Eightfold Path is a unique teaching which meets
the real needs of today.
Dr. MAUDE ROYDEN (Christian)
I think one of the delights of the Conference is that we
see with our own eyes people about whom we have often
thought and read, but whom it is
very difficult to imagine
as perfectly real until we have seen them.
One of the best of women, not only of brilliant
ability
but with the warmest heart, told me how once her husband
read aloud from a newspaper an account of a mother who
had seen her child fall into a sewer hole from w;hich it had
never been rescued. She was so shocked that she was
exasperated with her husband for being able to continue his
breakfast. But when her husband explained that it had all
happened in Vancouver, she cried, "Vancouver! I
thought
it was here in Chelsea!" and ate a good breakfast herself.
I refer to this because I am afraid that our western habit
of thinking of the world chiefly as the western world is difficult
to escape. I noticed at this afternoon's meeting that while
all the speakers told us something worth while, yet, though
we had an Asiatic as Chairman and an African as one of the
speakers, the Europeans spoke of the world almost entirely
in terms of Europe and America. If I seem to repeat that
fault now, I hope our Oriental friends will "give me the
hospitality of their minds," so that although I
may speak in
western terms and with western thoughts, they may be able
to read beneath them something which is not merely of
the West.
THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION 85
The world's need of religion and of God is
always present.
It is universal and lasts as long as humanity lasts. But it
shows itself in different ways and in different times. At the
present time, all the world over but chiefly, perhaps, in the
West the need of God expresses itself in a tragic sense of
futility. After the war almost everything that we had
thought and hoped for, and for which we had sacrificed on
a gigantic scale, failed to be realized. Among the younger
generation especially there arose a dreadful or a cynical sense
of the futility of life itself.
I have a correspondent whom I have never seen, but with
whom I have a very interesting correspondence. He works
in a factory, and only last week I had a letter from him on
the outlook of the younger generation in his factory. He
wrote as follows: "They worship speed. Everyone is a
speedway fan. Since the war we have started work at
8 a.m., and jthe boys now are better developed physically.
A good many camp out during the week-end. . . .
Thirty
years ago the shop-boy used to come in at lunch time with
cans of beer on a long notched rod; now he has cartons of
milk. Physically they are fine, but there is another side to
the picture. They do not take the interest in world affairs
that we did thirty years ago. . . . The middle-aged chaps
who went through the war are interested in world events,
as are also the elderly mechanics. . . . Sometimes I think
it needs a terrific shock to waken the young to the significance
of events happening in the world around them. . . . One
thing I like about the modern boy, he will talk of sex openly
and not in the furtive, joky manner that was the custom
years ago. He is
proud of the appearance of his body, and
therefore wary of any conduct that may injure it. If only
he would not be so content with things as they are in this
maddening world !
"
The reason is that they feel it is all futile.
I was very much interested this morning in what Professor
Hume told the Congress about the way in which certain
religions have come into being. No one can have listened
unmoved to that extraordinarily interesting narrative of how
86 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
more than once anti-god movements have become religious
movements. We may compare the anti-religious movement
in Russia today with Professor Hume's description of the
beginnings of Jainism and Buddhism. Here is a people
deeply moved by a religious motive to reject a religion
which seemed to them unreal. They call themselves anti-
religious, and yet today, while the humanitarian impulse has
not ceased, there has come into it
something very like the
deification of Gautama Buddha among the Buddhists. Where
the sacred icons hung there is now the bust of Lenin. The
candles which stood before the Christ picture are replaced
by flowers before the bust of Lenin. Surely we may find
there once more the proof that, all over the world, men are
unable to live without a God. It is because religion has so
often been a caricature of itself that it has been replaced by
worship of a Lenin, a Hitler, or a Mussolini. Something to
worship, men must have> because the need of the world for
religion and for God is ineradicable. Without it, life becomes
meaningless, purposeless, in a word, futile.
The cure for the devastating sense of futility which
possesses so many is the happiness which comes from the
"sense of being taken up into a cause which you recognize
as greater than yourself." Fascism, Nazism have a purpose
which may seem to us to be a terrible one; but is not the
fascination of the totalitarian state the demand which it
makes upon the whole man to surrender to that which he at
least feels to be greater than himself? It has seemed to me
again and again that the difference between a life that is
happy and a life that is not, is
just that of being taken up
into a cause that one recognizes as greater than oneself.
To identify oneself with God's cause is to have every atom
of one's being, body, soul, and spirit, every opportunity or
lack of opportunity, every single thing that life can bring,
every instant of one's existence, taken up into the purpose
"
of God. And it is for this, and for nothing less, that He asks.
His purpose extends over the Universe and leaves out nothing
and can never disappoint. It makes each of us of infinite
THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION 87
value, so that Christ could say of us, "Even the very hairs
of your head are all numbered.'*
If we place ourselves against the purpose of God we do
not destroy the Universe, nor do we destroy His purpose,
but we destroy ourselves. If only we Westerners could unite
the eastern sense of the immutability of spiritual law with
our own special contribution the discovery of scientific
law in our own spiritual life, how we should advance!
We know, indeed, that we cannot break a scientific law
we can only break ourselves against it. "If a man throws
himself over a precipice, he will not break the law of
gravity," says Chesterton; "he will illustrate it." Let us
then talk less about breaking the spiritual law of God, for
we cannot do that either. But when He, in His love and
compassion, calls us to act with Him, live by His law and
let our tiny lives be absorbed in His purpose, all sense of
futility is
gone.
A. YUSUF ALI (Muslim)
We see evidence everywhere around us of a new orientation
to religion. It takes various forms.
The tremendous economic unsettlement since the Great
War has driven large masses of mankind to devote increasing
attention to the satisfaction of primary physical needs. As
the churches did not help in their primary quest, whole
communities, as in Russia, turned their backs on religion
and even began to decry and persecute religion. In this
they failed to distinguish churches and organizations from
religion. A reaction is
already visible against that extreme
attitude; for the inner needs of human nature are at least as
insistent as its outer needs. "Man liveth not by bread alone."
Among educated men and women the gradual advance of
science at a greatly accelerated pace during the last two
centuries, and especially in our own generation, has suggested
serious questionings about the office of religion or its use as
a guiding force in human conduct. This tendency can be
traced to the earliest
stage in the history of human thought.
88 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
To go back no further than Lucretius, he denied (De Natura
Rerum, v. 80-96) any divine plan or purpose in Nature, and
at the same time contemplated a kind of determinism in Nature,
which assigned a limited power to everything and fixed a
boundary which none might pass. Increasing familiarity
with the secrets and wonders of the physical Universe and the
universality of its laws fastens men's attention to the physical
world. This is
apt to obscure the inner realities which are
intimate truths to those who have vision, and can pierce
through the curtain to the Holy of Holies within man's souL
This worship of the mind has received fresh accession from
the wonderful discoveries which have ministered to man's
comfort and his intellectual and moral and even spiritual
satisfaction through means which can be constructed,
measured, explained, and regulated by purely physical means.
To argue from this against the reality of spiritual life or
spiritual experience is like arguing against the existence of
things which are hidden from our eyes but which are testified
by the evidence of good, true, and reliable men from their own
intense inner religious experience. Let me explain this with
another illustration. I see a spoon in a glass of water, but it
is bent at the point where it touches the surface of the water.
I put the spoon in when it was straight. Am I justified in
laughing at people who tell me that it is still
straight in the
water, but that it
appears bent to me on account of certain
laws of refraction which I am unable to understand ?
But no one can have studied deeply the trend of modern
science who does not realize that modern science is less and
less material as the area of its
knowledge and experience
enlarges. The spirit of the mediaeval Islamic treatise, the
Ikhwan-its-Safa, which expounds all the new sciences of its
day, is
deeply religious. Newton, who may be claimed as a
father of modern physics and modern science, was a deeply
religious man. Who can read the wonderful astronomical
expositions of Jeans and Eddington, or contemplate the
forces of radio-activity and atomic structure, or come into the
remotest touch with the quantum theory or the problems of
THE WORLD S NEED OF RELIGION 89
energy and relativity, without feeling that matter itself appears
in a more complex light to modern science than was postulated
by the materialists of even a generation ago?
In a sense matter itself has been spiritualized by modern
science. More harmful to the growth of the best in humanity
even than the hostility of materialists is the spirit of apathy
and indifference to religion which seems to have taken posses-
sion of young minds in our own day. This indifference is
often associated with cynicism about the most sacred associa-
tions enshrined in our souls. This indifference lowers ethical
standards in individual and public life, and instils a poison into
international relations. It consigns politics to professional
schemers, converts national ideals into selfish forms of
economic or exclusive nationalism, favours the growth of
personal power and officious regimentation, and checks the
exercise of that personal liberty without which power and
energy become lifeless or life-corroding things.
Power confided to others, whether in small bodies or large,
means a derogation from the growth and flowering of human
personality; There may be many material advantages in this.
But they are outweighed by the enormous damage which they
do to the core of the human soul. Sooner or later remedial
measures become necessary. Some seek them through
artistic or literary channels; others through social service or
practical work; still others from a new orientation of religious
thought, work, and activity. The soul-hunger is
recognized
to exist and to demand satisfaction. We must all try to meet
it, in our own spheres, in the manner which is most readily
available to us and which can best help us to serve our brethren
and sisters, fellow-members of our common humanity.
At certain times and among certain circles religion was or
is. looked upon as a matter of creed and formulae. It should
be a matter of life and personality. The enemies of religion
have thrown out gibes about its
being the root of many evils.
They are looking at the misuse, and not the use, of religion
or the religious spirit. Some confuse religion with super-
stition, and attribute all sorts of hidden terrors and clamorous
90 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
taboos to it.
Religion should free the souls of men from fear
of themselves as well as of others. It should enable them
to face the problems of life with confidence, because they
know that they are fighting a spiritual battle in the ranks of the
forces of the good and the true, which must prevail. -It is
not to the purpose to say that there are many religions, and
they lead to conflict spiritual conflict within and sanguinary
wars in the body politic of humanity. Conflicts, un-
fortunately, do exist, and men have a habit of seeking
self-justification for their most selfish or thoughtless acts by
fathering them on religion or on any other labels that happen
to appeal to large bodies of men. Religion, rightly under-
stood, should make for peace by supporting righteousness,
justice, and fair-dealing among men.
It is a happy sign of the times that thinking minds are
beginning to realize three important truths. One is that
unanimity is
impossible of attainment where men's antecedents
and experiences are different, and yet a true spirit of mutual
understanding is
always attainable wherever there is
goodwill
on all sides. The second is that our own ideas find truer
and better fulfilment in ourselves when we pool our ex-
periences with others, and that it is only in such an atmosphere
that our souls can seek and find true consolation. The third
is that though we speak of many religions from an external
point of view, our common humanity gives us hope of one
underlying faith, so long as we believe in One God, who made
and loves us all.
An approach to the fulfilment of such hopes is
being made
by diverse men in diverse ways. The world is becoming
more and more one. The best statesmen are seeking unity
of purpose and the avoidance of conflict so far as the armed
forces of nations are concerned. The most far-seeing
economists are working out solutions to economic conflicts,
maladjustments, and misunderstandings. In health matters,
though different climates, diets, habits, and modes of life
require different treatments, humanity is working towards
organizations by means of which different countries and
THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION 91
different social grades within each country shall attain to
standards which will make tolerably good health conditions
attainable for all. Shall men of faith lag behind in such quest
of unity? To do so would be to deny our faith in the unity
of God's Plan and Purpose.
In this very city of Oxford there are two or three parallel
movements taking counsel in this direction. I may be per-
mitted to refer to the Oxford Conference of the Christian
churches, whose object is to see how far unity not necessarily
of doctrine or creed, but unity of understanding, such as I
have referred to above may be possible among the Christian
churches. I refer to this with all the greater personal satis-
faction because I had enjoyed the honour and pleasure of
personal acquaintance with Archbishop Soderblom of Sweden,
who was one of the earliest high dignitaries to take up the
idea with enthusiasm. In the spring and summer of 1918
the last year of the war I was on duty in Sweden and the
Scandinavian counties. I had many talks with the Archbishop
then on the subject. I suggested a much larger idea, that of
holding a Conference of all faiths. I understood Archbishop
Soderblom to approve of it
personally; but he thought the
smaller scheme, confined to the Christian churches, might be
more immediately practicable. I am glad it has reached the
stage it has in Oxford. I am sure we all entertain the heartiest
goodwill and sympathy with its
objects.
Thanks to the energy of Sir Francis Younghusband, we
are here pursuing the quest in a larger sphere. We invite all
religions to sit in conference with us. Our object is not
proselytism or preaching. We sit together, and some of us
try to express the faith that is in us, so that all who participate
in our gathering may know each other's point of view, and
we may all
go back strengthened for the work of moral and
spiritual regeneration which we consider to be the crying
need of the age. We shall take counsel among ourselves in
order to understand each other. That is the only kind of
discussion we shall have. We are not out for American
methods. We are not seeking a synthesis, nor are we dis-
92 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
cussing doctrines. In a spirit of fervent humility we are trying
to see how far we can bring our emotions, convictions,
experiences, and knowledge to bear on the furtherance of
spiritual understanding, which can transcend all other kinds of
understanding.
For there is a very real danger that the world as we see it
may, in its lust or pride of power, or its
greed of material
good, submerge that precious human personality which it is
the function of religion to foster and emancipate. Too logical
an acceptance of the crude methods of "nature red in tooth
and claw" may drown the inner voice within us, which cries
out that our own nature has risen or should rise above that
crudeness and respond to love and the finer instincts with
which God has dowered us.
The State is
extending its area of operations everywhere
more and more every day. The fight between Church and
State is for most of us a matter of past history. But the
fight between cynicism and faith, between apathy and active
well-doing, between international rivalry and jealousy and
personal integrity and independence, is
being waged about
and within us with increased ferocity. Shall we so honour
and reverence religion that she shall gird on us the armour
and hand to us the quadruple banner of truth, beauty, good-
ness, and faith?
At the conclusion of the meeting it was proposed by the
Acting Chairman, Viscount Samuel, and carried unanimously
and with acclamation :
THAT the following telegram be sent to the King of the
Belgians in support of his proposal, as published in the Press
of that date :
"To H.M. THE KING OF THE BELGIANS: THE WORLD
CONGRESS OF FAITHS NOW ASSEMBLED AT OXFORD FOR THE
PROMOTION OF WORLD FELLOWSHIP THROUGH RELIGION,
WELCOMES MOST HEARTILY YOUR MAJESTY'S PROPOSAL DE-
SIGNED TO SAFEGUARD THE GENERAL PEACE OF MANKIND."
FRANCIS YOUNGHUSBAND (Chairman}.
RELIGION: ITS VALUE TO THE WORLD
THIRD SESSION,
Sunday Morning,
July 25 th.
RELIGION: ITS VALUE TO THE WORLD
Sir ABDUL QADIR (Chairman)
I must first of all
say how grateful I am to have the privilege
of taking the Chair at this meeting, and I am particularly glad
to take it when a distinguished lady speaker from India is to
address us. At the last Session of last year's Congress in
London we were lucky to have a distinguished Muslim lady
from Turkey, Mme Halidi Edib, to give us the point of view
of Islam. We are again fortunate to have a Muslim lady,
this time from India, to express the need of the world for
religion from the Muslim point of view.
The Begum Amiruddin comes from a distinguished Persian
family now settled in India. Her father, a most learned and
wise man, was one of the first in his position to have his
daughters educated. They all went to the University and
are now doing useful work. The Begum herself is
doing
social and educational work in Madras. She is
responsible
for having had compulsory education introduced into that
district. At one time there was difficulty about Muslim girls
being included in such education, but she has achieved that
as well. She is President of the Girl Guides in Bangalore,
and Patron of a Society of Muslim and Hindu ladies of all
classes.
By her presence here another point of great value is con-
tributed to this Conference, and that is the principle of the
status of woman in the scheme of life. This is a question
on which for a long time there has been a great deal of mis-
understanding, especially in the West the status of woman
in Islam. People believe that Islam denies the existence of
the soul in woman. Actually Muslim teaching insists on the
95
96 THE
^ORLD'S
NEED OF RELIGION
complete equality of men and women, and makes this point
explicit.
All
th^j virtues enjoined by The Book are explicitly
stated to apply/ to both man and woman: "He shall do it
and she shall fio it."
From that: point of view it is
very desirable that we should
give this
practical
demonstration of the fact that Islam allows
women to address men and women, and to give them of their
light jvjkt
as men may do. This has been done in the past
and i$ being done today, and is a point to be remembered.
Theire are accounts of distinguished women in all
ages in
IsVam who did all kinds of public work, and that continues
;riow, in spite of the custom of seclusion. There are some,
of course, who have now come out of seclusion, and among
them is the lady who is to address you.
With regard to the topic we are to discuss : I have had the
pleasure of attending three of the Sessions of this Congress,
and have been greatly impressed by the fact that the work
which we did last year has actually resulted in drawing us,
all
representatives of various faiths, nearer to one another
than we were before.
While listening this morning to the beautiful prayer, and
watching so many representatives of other faiths listening
not only with outward formal respect but actually sharing
the same sentiments and all
converging towards the same
central ideal, I thought what a great achievement that was.
It was an expression of a passage in the Quran, where the
Prophet asks all the "People ofthe Book," as the true followers
are called, to come to the point which was common between
them. Even at that time it was being said that we should
eliminate those things on which we differ, and simply rally
round those points which are common between us. That
is the spirit
in which this Congress movement was started,
and I am sure that along those lines lies the possibility for the
solution of the problems that lie before humanity.
The very title of this Session is a great step forward. The
RELIGION: ITS VALUE TO THE WORLD 97
great poiijt'
about the title is the omission of the
" s
"
at the
end of the first word Religion, not Religions. The point is
religion itself, the essential thing under whatever name or
form it is
practised. Whatever the name or the label, we do
not quarrel
with him who comes to us with the essential
principle.
As long as we can get a common point of view
from which to work for the good of humanity, we can differ
as to forms as much as we like. Yesterday, while listening to
some of those representing Youth, we heard a Communist
say: "I have nothing to do with religion, but am a great
friend of Internationalism." As the Chairman hinted, the
essence is there; you may not call it
religion, but I have no
quarrel with you if you practise what religion teaches.
Religion must begin a reconquest of the world, not by
dogmatism, but simply by saying:
" As long as we can get a
common point of view for the working of religion, we are
all one/'
Begum SULTAN MIR AMIRUDDIN
This Congress is animated by the noblest ideals con-
ceivable. When Sir Francis the heart and soul of this great
Movement, whom we are delighted has been able to be with
us today, despite his illness, and to inspire us with his
personality was kind enough to invite me last year to the
Congress that was held in London, unfortunately I was
unable to respond to his kind invitation. But when I was
asked again this year, the call of duty to this great cause I
felt was such and so great and urgent, that I am now here
before you.
For the call of this Congress is not a mere call to a livelier
world consciousness, but a call to something deeper, to
something more vital, to something that goes deep into the
ro<3ts of the problems that beset mankind at the present
.
day. It is a call for the promotion of the kinship of souls,
a call for religion which comes at a crisis at the present time.
One of the most significant phenomena of our times is
that the growth of scientific knowledge and the increase of
98 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
the critical spirit have led many individuals to regar^ religion
as a superfluous hypothesis. When the old foundations of
faith have, in many regions, been demolished, the question
that comes surging up within our hearts is whether a spiritual
integration of the world is
possible. Happily amidst the
dense clouds of religious apathy that envelop the horizon,
we perceive also some rays of hope glimmering forth,
indicating that the gulf of isolation between science and
religion could be bridged. On the other hand, the opposition
to the Theory of Evolution by the theologians of the West
is
giving way, a theory which I
may, in passing, mention is
not inconsistent with the Islamic conception of the world,
reference having been made to it in the Quran on several
occasions. On the other hand, the teleological argument
of theists that the plan and purpose which are manifest
throughout the Cosmos make it
impossible to exclude the
presiding activity of a Mind, is
finding favour with some
scientists. Science itself, under the leadership of Jeans,
suggests a mathematical structure to the Universe, and there
are indications that scientific discoveries would; in course
of time, strengthen the ground for a spiritual interpretation
of this Universe.
Religion, as I conceive it as a Muslim, is a relation in
accordance with "reason and knowledge" which man estab-
lishes with the Unseen Reality and which binds his life to
the Reality and guides his conducf. When we look about
the modern world, certain aspects of the conditions prevalent
strike the mind with the conviction that never before has
there been an age when the guiding power of religion was
more desperately needed. We must with gratitude acknow-
ledge that science has endowed this planet with priceless
gifts; it has prolonged life; it has invested us with powers
to traverse the Universe with the speed of a hurricane;" it
has drawn humanity together through the medium of the
wireless and the cinema; it has multiplied the resources of
production. In short, it has taught man to
produce a vast
material structure which can bestow upon him happiness
RELIGION: ITS VALUE TO THE WORLD 99
and comfoft
beyond the wildest dreams of his ancestors. But
the misfortune of it is that it has, simultaneously, conferred
on him such powers also as would lead to the destruction
of civilization if not controlled. The control by man of these
external forces depends for its
stability on his acquiring
control over his own inner forces his internal nature. It
is therefore imperative that the science of matter in the
knowledge of which he is immersed should be harmonized
with the science of the spirit that he ignores today.
The world is involved in an incongruous situation. Old
barriers of isolation have been abolished and the Universe
has become, economically, a unit, yet the long-cherished
unity of the human race appears to be far from realization.
The contacts that are being made today demonstrate to us
the painful truth that nothing divides mankind so much as
the wrong kind of proximity, namely, a mere physical nearness
unaccompanied by a cultural intercourse with and an under-
standing of those with whom one comes in touch. The
fact that presents itself with tragic impressiveness is that
outward uniformity towards which the different nations
tend is not being accompanied by the inner unity of mind
the crying need of mankind. Racial antipathy sunders
humanity and perpetrates injustice; rigid chauvinism fosters
division and disharmony. Trade rivalries kindle international
antagonisms, selfishness engenders selfishness, with the conse-
quence that the modern peak of history's horizon looms
portentous. The intrusion on the rights of others, the race
of armaments, the multiplication of the agencies of destruction
for the decimation of the innocent civilians of the expected
belligerent countries, and the spirit of intolerance that reigns
rampant in many parts, are some of the symptoms of the
malaise which affects the world. Following the therapeutic
procedure, our primary concern should be to locate the
cause of the disease before prescribing a remedy. Careful
examination makes it
apparent that the ailment is traceable
to spiritual thinness in the nature of men who are the con-
stitutive organs of the entire organism, the Universe. Hence
IOO THE WORLD S NEED OF RELIGION
what is needed for the treatment of this malady which is
affecting the world is the vitalizing roborant of religion.
Human personality, it must be remembered, is a combination
of three elements body, mind, and spirit all of which
require sufficient nutriment When there is
plethora of
nourishment in one or more at the expense of any of the
others, the equilibrium . is disturbed and disorder results.
Today it is the excessive gratification not only of the body
but also of the mind that has starved out the soul a condition
that calls for serious attention.
The kernel of the world problems lies not in the human
head but in the human heart. Economic maladjustments
cannot be rectified by the intelligence of financiers at economic
conferences without the previous suppression of greed and
selfishness in human nature. And the calamity of the dreaded
Armageddon cannot be averted by the efforts of eminent
statesmen at the League of Nations and disarmament con-
ferences without the condition precedent being satisfied, viz.,
the disarmament among the nations of the spirit of aggression
and aggrandizement. It is the disregard of the principle
of "live and let live" and the assertion of the rights of the
particular as against the rights of the universal that should
be curbed and suppressed, and the war psychosis that such
a spirit engenders extirpated before we can glance down the
vista of the future with complacence. The fundamental
issue of the present era which is
labouring in the throes of
insecurity is
spiritual.
The struggle is not so much between
two rival groups of powers as between two conflicting and
incompatible philosophies of life. One based on self-interest
and the other on the interests of the Universe. Ever since
the conclusion of the last Great War we have set about on
an inquiry as to how we can avert wars in the future. We
should rather have been asking ourselves the question,
"How can we foster and cultivate peace and understanding?"
a question which this Congress of Faiths has set itself to
answer. And the answer to this is that peace can be enjoyed
only after we have sown its seeds the seeds of right relation-
RELIGION: ITS VALUE TO THE WORLD 101
ship in the hearts of men and uprooted the existing weeds
of fear, distrust, superiority complex of race and class, greed
and selfishness, a task which can be more successfully
performed by religion than by secular organizations.
Sufch a statement may seem a paradox in view of the fact
that religion has a sinister record of dissensions and blood-
shed. The history of the Crusades, the Thirty Years
9
War,
and the Autos-de-fe of the Inquisition militate against the
value of religion as a peace factor. And some, disgusted
with fanatical feuds that persist even in this century of
progress and with the omission of religion to make a useful
contribution to the needs of the times, have taken the
drastic step of abolishing it
altogether. It must be conceded
that religion has been much misused, that it has been
recalcitrant to its
duty, and has swerved from its
original
purpose, but to destroy it is tantamount to killing the body
to cure the disease. It has been the saddest experience of
man to witness the misapplication of the highest instruments
of civilization, namely, of both science and religion. But
because science has become a tool in the hands of many for
executing designs of oppression and hate, would it be com-
patible with wisdom to advocate its destruction? Similarly,
because religion has been misinterpreted and misused, would
it be a calamity to desire its
expulsion from the world ?
It is not true religion, that is, religion as viewed in its
pristine purity, that has been responsible for fanatical war-
fares. The prophetic souls that swung the world into a new
orbit were inspired by the lofty ideal of establishing peace
and harmony among mankind, and were endowed with a
comprehensive vision of truth. An illusion of egotism,
however, seized the minds of some later interpreters of the
faiths, who hardly grasped the import of the original message
and reshaped it in the mould of their own making. This
illusion made them conceive truth from the angle of their
own exclusiveness, generated in them an attitude of contempt
for other standards and values, and coerced them to aggres-
sively impose their belief upon others. As religion travelled
102 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
away from its sacred sources, it lost its
original catholicity
and hardened into arrogant dogmatism, and it is not fair to
censure it for the misdeeds and enormities of those who
scarcely comprehended its message. The poet Hafiz stig-
matizes the infirmity of judgment of the narrow-minded
bigots and deplores that "Since they did not see the fact,
they ran after fiction/*
True religion, as distinguished from pseudo-religion, is
basically universalistic in spirit and teaching. Cosmo-
politanism radiates through the whole nature of man when
his heart is illumined by the divine light. The function of
religion as indicated by its
etymology is to bind all human
beings together in one bond of common fellowship and love
and unite them to their Maker. All monotheistic faiths teach
that men, despite their obvious differences, are brothers
through their common relation to the Divine Creator. The
unity of the human race is the natural corollary of the unity
of God. The basic principle of Islam is its doctrine of
Universal Brotherhood. This is stressed in the. Quran in
the words, "All people are a single nation" (chap. 2. 213).
The term "Rabbul Alamin," as applied to God, signifies that
all the nations of the world are regarded to be the children
of one Father, whom He fosters, nourishes, and guides to
their goal of perfection by degrees. The prophet Muhammad
(may peace be upon him) made it his life work to preach
universal love as the emblem of the love towards the Creator.
"Do you love your Creator?" he said; "love your fellow-
beings first" (Sahih Bukhari). The social communion that
Islam creates transcends geographical, racial, and national
boundaries, as also caste- and class-distinctions based either
on birth or wealth. For according to the Quran, rectitude
of action alone constitutes the criterion of nobility. And
what characterizes Islam is that it was not content merely
to preach the ideal of the equal worth of all
personalities, but
actually made it a fact of common law and established it as
a practice. As a result, within the brief period of twenty-
three years, as if
by a magic wand, it exterminated race,
RELIGION: ITS VALUE TO THE WORLD 103
colour, and class prejudice from among innumerable, ever-
bickering, heterogeneous units of humanity, not of one but
of different countries. * The hearts of men and women in the
Orient began to beat in unison with the hearts of those in
the Qccident; the fairest of the Arabs and the Persians
intermingled in terms of closest intimacy with the darkest of
Ethiopians; and the most abject of human beings, the slaves,
became not only commanders-in-chief of armies and governors
of provinces, but were, in the Muslim world, raised to the
status of royalty itself. To such an achievement history
presents no parallel If today these lofty principles preached
and practised by Islam are followed, they will serve as a
panacea to the many disorders which affect our sorely dis-
tressed world. When they produced such marvellous results
in the days of old, it is
easy to conceive how much more
effective they will be at the present epoch when the different
sections of humanity are brought into closer proximity.
The changes effected in the condition of women constitute
another unique achievement of Islam in the field of human
relationship: One of the essential teachings of the prophet
Muhammad was "Respect of Womanhood." He enjoined
that "Paradise lies at the feet of Mothers," and from the most
degraded position that women occupied, he suddenly elevated
them to the status of equality with men and granted them
more than 1300 years ago similar legal rights and privileges,
namely, the right to inherit, own, and dispose of property,
and enter into contracts and agreements on their own account,
which they have since enjoyed.
Many modern thinkers of the West entertain doubts as to
the value of religion and assail it with the argument that it
retards material advance instead of inspiring progress. In
support
of their contention, they vividly portray the picture
of mediaeval Europe, when learning was relegated to the
domain of neglect, free thought discouraged, science banned,
and the children of light consigned to the flames. Prima
facie this would seem to make a plausible case against religion.
Investigation, however, discloses that the conditions pre-
104 THE WORLD S NEED OF RELIGION
valent during the period known as the Dark Ages were not
the making of true religion but of priestcraft, which adopted
the policy of keeping the world enchained in fetters of
ignorance and inflicted distortions and disfigurements on
spiritual values. f
True religion which helps man to discern himself and rise
to the highest plane must, inevitably, be a supreme force in
the development of civilization which connotes culture and
material progress. All humanitarian principles which have
contributed towards the well-being of mankind have drawn
their inspiration from religious truths, one or other of which
is imminent in whatever is true and good. Oswald Spengler
rightly observes that, "Great cultures are entities, primary
or original, that arise out of the foundations of spirituality."
The truth of this statement is borne out to a remarkable
degree by the history of Islam. Advance in humanity, in
freedom, in intellect, and in multifarious arts of life in Arabia
was the outcome of the birth of Islam, and proceeded every-
where in proportion to the influence and acceptance of its
teachings. In the Muslim world, adherence to the rules of
religion was accompanied by material progress. This was
the natural effect of the laws promulgated by the Quran
which were such as would lift man to the height of civilization
in all
pursuits of life. So long as the Muslims implicitly
obeyed the injunctions of these sacred laws they prospered,
and when they transgressed them, they did so at their peril.
The welcome accorded to the gospel preached by Islam
that Nature with all its resources was created to subserve
man's ends and should be harnessed to his use gave mighty
impetus to the cultivation of the various sciences the fulcrum
of human progress. The teaching that "Allah (God) has
not created anything better than reason; the benefits which
Allah giveth are on account of it," the exhortations to men
and women to acquire knowledge since it
"lights the way
to Heaven," and the repeated emphasis on the necessity of
seeking knowledge "though it be in China," raised people
sunk in a slough of degradation, mental, social, and political,
RELIQION: ITS VALUE TO THE WORLD 105
to eminent' cultural heights. But when Muslims reached the
acme of their civilization, the evils that abundance of wealth
and power brought in their train made this nation their
captive; extravagance and self-indulgence crept in, and utter
disregard of religious precepts culminated in the disruption
of the Muslim Empires.
The resources of religion are indispensable for the improve-
ment of the conditions that dominate modern society. The
characteristic of the times is an over-emphasis on the pleasures
of the sense in oblivion to the need for nourishing the soul.
The existing spiritual anarchy is
corroding the foundations
of morality. New-fangled cults claim the allegiance of the
young; indulgence is regarded as synonymous with self-
expression and licence, conceived to be identical with freedom.
When man makes hedonism his summum Ionian in life and
gives himself up entirely to the exaltation of the ecstasy of
the flesh, he descends to the level of the animal. What
society needs is a revaluation of its values. If the present-
day ideals persist and the God of "a good time" does not
release His hold on the minds of His innumerable votaries,
the future does not present a prospect for gratification.
Oswald Spengler in his morphology of civilizations,
entitled The Decline of the West, regards "religion without
God/* which the humanists are striving to establish, to be
the symptom of a dying civilization. History reveals that
spiritual bankruptcy has been the cause of the decadence of
many a mighty empire. The formidable power of Rome
could not withstand the overwhelming forces of destruction
that irreligion let loose on her. The exhortations of Juvenal,
Tacitus, and Livy remained unheeded, and the grandeur that
was of Rome was soon no more.
Philosophies of history give us a vivid insight into what is
likely to occur if certain conditions persist. Adherence to
the policy of laissez-faire will not solve the problems of
today; to lose sight of the seriousness of the situation and
turn a deaf ear to the forebodings of the gloomy Jeremiahs
is
hardly consistent with wisdom. The inference from this
io6 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
is not that we should give ourselves up to despair. Despair
has the tendency of making history confirm its theories.
Optimism and pessimism are both dynamic forces, it
being
the general law of life that what we believe with passionate
intensity exerts a profound effect on our minds and Brings
about good or evil as is foreseen. There is no cause for
despondency, as the situation is not beyond control. If we
seek the succour of the spirit, we shall be able to skilfully
navigate the boat of civilization amid the tumult of wild
waters through which it is
rushing today, and land at the
farthest haven of progress. When the spiritual needs of the
soul are satisfied alongside with material desires, and when
the flaming spirit
of love for humanity lit
by religion in
the heart of each individual and each nation, which comprises
a group of individuals, makes the Mother Heart of mankind
vibrate with virile
power for the benefit of all its members,
we may make bold to assert that modern civilization which
has harnessed the steam, which has snatched the lightning
from the clouds and conquered the air, will soar to further
heights immeasurable.
The value of religion in imparting dignity, meaning, and
worth to life
by its doctrine of the hereafter can hardly be
overlooked. To hold that human life is like "the grass of
the fields that today is and tomorrow is cast into the oven,"
would place us below the level of other forms of creatures
which is not consistent with facts. Since the whole of
creation is
fulfilling a purpose, namely, to minister to the
needs of man, it cannot be conceived that he, the lord of all,
is destined to drift and lead an aimless existence.
Man is a religious animal, and nothing can expel his innate
tendency to look behind phenomena and pry into the great
darkness which encompasses him. With all the surface of
the materialism of today, there is an inexhaustible craving in
human nature for a spiritual reality and response. The decay
of material things and the temporary duration of our body
suggest the need for the results of this life ofthe soul, otherwise
this world would appear to be hardly rational. If we were
RELIGION: ITS VALUE TO THE WORLD 107
*
to be deprived of the belief that physical death does not
mark the final stage of our journey, but is a further step in
the evolutionary process of the "Mighty Atom/' our earthly
existence would be meaningless and futile.
It-.is inconceivable that man, the tempest-tossed mariner
"sailing on life's solemn main," can ever do without the
stable anchorage that religion provides. Without "one
adequate support for the calamities of mortal life," the anguish
that wrings the heart could hardly be appeased. It is the
conviction in a transcending purpose that endows us with an
unconquerable will and helps us to face the gravest crisis.
We may be crushed by the weight of a material disaster, but
if we have faith in our soul and in the spirit of the Universe,
we can still rise up to our feet and go forward. The hope
of the Beyond urges us on, draws the sting out of our
affliction and saves us from the clutches of cynicism and
despondency. So long as the elixir of unmixed and unending
happiness remains to be discovered, so long will the human
heart crave for the solace that the consciousness of an Infinite
Power and the Life hereafter alone can give.
Recent statistics foreshadow the collapse of the anti-God
movement in Russia. It has been reported that the member-
ship of the militant Godless League has fallen from 5,000,000
in 1933 to below 2,000,000 at present, and that many anti-
religious organizations there are threatened with disintegration.
Religion, properly understood and genuinely practised, is
conclusively a sine qua non for the happiness and well-being of
man. The most urgent desideratum for the world at the
present moment is a sustained endeavour at a spiritual awaken-
ing that will evoke and vitalize the forces of good, latent in
modern civilization, resist the reactionary forces of degenera-
tion and decay, lead men to apprehend the universal fulness
of truth, and teach them to realize the organic character of the
Universe. The sceptics who criticize religion have no alter-
native to offer in its
place.
We must, however, not forget that before religion can
become a dynamic factor in the establishment of a better
io8 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
s
world-order, for which are inherent in it
necessary ingredients,
it needs to give a new orientation to its outlook. It has to
adapt its
philosophic idealism to the practical demands of
life and accommodate itself to the intellectual needs of the
generation. It has been rightly said that "mere philosophic
perception of the essence of divinity is barren if it does not
generate volition or give movement to human life in conson-
ance with the qualities or attributes of that essence." Removed
from the sphere of theory to the sphere of practice, religion
should be made to permeate every institution and every
phase of our modern life the home, the school, art and play,
commerce and industry, and in particular, politics. It should
concern itself not merely with social problems; its efforts
have, to a great measure, to be directed also towards the
solution of racial and political questions. Moreover, it should
be life-affirming and aim to impart a fulness to our earthly
existence, and not life-denying, lulling men into quiet con-
tentment with interests centred only on the life to come. The
essence of true worship is to serve humanity, not to detach
oneself from it; to counsel the soul to seek its
happiness in
changing and not in becoming independent of circumstances.
The Scylla of excessive other-worldliness which shatters the
spirit of progress is as much to be avoided as the Charybdis
of inordinate this-worldliness which engulfs into the abysmal
deep the progress already achieved.
Further, in our epoch of enlightenment, religion cannot
afford to remain divorced from reason. To expect super-
natural paradoxes to make an appeal to the minds of the
present generation is mere delusion. A large measure of free
thought is
absolutely indispensable to human progress, and
this is not incompatible with true religion, which is
dynamic
and not static in character. "When the thoughts of men are
widened with the process of the Suns," the dominant note
should be not the letter but the spirit of the Scriptures. What
we need to realize is that "the dry bones of religion are
nothing; the spirit that quickens the bones is all." The
permanent articles of faith must not be confounded with the
RELIGION: ITS VALUE TO THE WORLD 109
temporary 'injunctions that were called forth by the passing
necessities of a bygone age and regarded to be immutable to
the end of the world. It is because of tenacious adherence to
outworn theological dogmas and later accretions, because of
the emphasis placed on rites and ceremonials rather than on
essentials, that we find religion in the rear instead of in the
vanguard of forces struggling for human progress.
At a time when spirituality is threatened with dissolution
by materialism, the World Congress of Faiths has struck the
right note in placing a call to religion in the forefront of its
programme. It is, indeed, essential that the different religious
sections of mankind should no longer remain apart, but unite
and muster their forces against the common foe so that the
fundamental truths which constitute the hope of the world
may be kept preserved and intact. This Congress is further
imbued with the lofty ideal of building a magnificent super-
structure of fellowship on the foundation of the different
faiths. The dominant factor in the achievement of this
objective is the cultivation of a positive attitude of mutual
goodwill -among the adherents of the various religions, and
not a mere negative ideal which manifests no ill-will towards
other creeds. Such an outlook is engendered by the principles
of Islam, which affirm that the religious emotion in man has a
variety of experiences and deprecate narrow exclusivism. A
Muslim believes that the grace of God encompasses peoples
of all
ages and climes, and that just as physical sustenance has
been granted to each nation, similarly has each been endowed
with spiritual sustenance in conformity with its
special re-
quirements. The Quran proclaims in categorical terms,
"There is not a people but a Warner has gone among them"
(chap. 35. 24). And not only does it
recognize diversity of
spiritual experience, but it also makes it incumbent on Muslims
to extend their allegiance to all the religious personalities of
the world. It declares, "Say: We believe in Allah and what
has been revealed to us and what has been revealed to Abraham
and Ishmael and Isaac and Jacob and all the tribes, and what
was given to Moses and Jesus and to the prophets from their
no THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
Lord; we do not make any distinction between ahy of them,
and to Him do we submit" (chap. 3. 83). It goes even further
and maintains that salvation is
dependent not on creeds but
conduct, and is not to be withheld from the followers of
revealed faiths. The undermentioned verses bear eloquent
testimony to its
generous attitude.
"
Surely those who believe and those who are Jews, and the
Christians and Sabians, whoever believes in Allah and the
last day and does good, they shall have their reward from their
Lord, and there is no fear for them, nor shall they grieve
"
(chap. 2. 62), and "Surely those who say, our Lord is Allah,
then they continue on the right way, they shall have no fear
nor shall they grieve" (chap. 46. 13).
Fellowship of faiths can be achieved only by the cultivation
of such a liberal attitude as Islam advocates. Critics and
sceptics are not wanting who scoff at the idea of world
fellowship being realized through religion, but to me, as a
Muslim, such a fellowship forms part of my creed. When I
was a girl, my father, His Eminence the late Muwayyid-ul-
Islam of Iran (Persia), a renowned Orientalist who had made
a profound study of the Arabic language and the Quran, a
lineal descendant of the prophet Muhammad, and a devout
Muslim, gave strong injunctions to my European governess
to teach me the Bible, both the Old and the New Testament.
And not satisfied with my cursory acquaintance with the
same, declared that it should constitute one of my examination
subjects. This insistence on the knowledge of a different
religion from one's own to be imparted to a child at an
impressionable stage of her career, demonstrates the attitude
that a Muslim entertains towards other faiths.
The various religions differ one from another, not in their
inward essence but in their outward manifestations in
theological details. Underneath variety, that which binds
all men together, is the fundamental unity of their allegiance
to the great ultimate spirit of Reality and Truth and the
similitude of their spiritual aspirations. The Arabic term
for religion is "Mazhab," which denotes a path. The
RELIGION: ITS VALUE TO THE WORLD in
followers (tf the different faiths are all
fellow-pilgrims who,
though pursuing diverse paths, are marching towards one
and the same "far-off divine event, towards which the whole
creation moves." Let us therefore go forward with hearts
animated by genuine goodwill and minds filled with a true
understanding of one another, to the achievement of our
common goal.
SYNOPSIS OF DISCUSSION
Rev. LESLIE J. BELTON said that religion was a nebulous
word, and could be made to cover all kinds of human aspira-
tions, so much so that he could conceive of a state of so-called
non-religion being nobler in some respects than certain
expressions of the religious spirit: that, for example, the
aspirations after human well-being at the root of Russian
Sovietism were perhaps more religious than the kind of
religion that was practised in Russia before the revolution.
The religion to which we should aspire was the religion
of fellowship. In considering how we could give expression
to the ideal of universal religion the speaker was reminded
of the saying quoted in St. Matthew's Gospel: "Inasmuch
as ye did it unto the least of these my brethren, ye did it
unto me"; and of the story of Hanuman, who, wrathful at
finding a beggar lying in /oul filth, crying upon the Name
of God, kicked him in the chest, and later when he was
tending the image of God, found a wound on the breast of
the image and heard a voice saying: "Inasmuch as you did
this to the foulest of my creatures, you did it unto me."
The lesson of that extraordinary similarity was simply that
we are all members one of another, and are not separated,
isolated beings.
'
There were two ways of regarding our kinship with God
and with one another. We might think of God as the Wholly
Other, entirely removed from our sphere of activity, as the
sovereign Law-Giver; or we might see God as involved in
creation, active in ourselves, the centre and soul of every
ii2 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
sphere, and see ourselves as bound together in Him so that
isolation and separation were realized to be illusion.
When we reached a certain level in our own faith, and
not until then, we found the underlying and all-enveloping
unity. If we became members of this religion of fellowship,
then we were lifted out of ourselves and discovered ourselves
extensified in the lives of others. In so far as we had achieved
this insight, it was for us to become "
cells
"
so that wherever
we might be we should bear witness to the religion of
fellowship that alone would save the world.
Mrs. DODWELL said that, speaking as one who had been
trained in science in this University, she would like to
emphasize the value of bringing the scientific method and
the results of scientific investigation to bear on spiritual
matters. The gift of modern scientific technique was a great
gift to the spirit of humanity. The scientist brought to bear
all the attributes of the mystic, his concentration and his
self-sacrifice, but the religious leaders had not led humanity
in such a way that scientific discoveries might become a
blessing and not a burden.
Religion should become the guardian of the world's
knowledge. Many scientists were at work to prove the
truth of esoteric knowledge, and if all the lines of scientific
and mystical knowledge could be brought together, it would
be possible to demonstrate the unity of life.
Mrs. BULLOCK suggested that fellowship through religion
might be promoted if people travelling in foreign countries
would worship in the churches, temples, and mosques of
those countries instead of merely regarding them as objects
of artistic interest.
The CHAIRMAN replied that this might not always be advis-
able, as some places of worship were exclusive, but that
much good might be done if tourists would make contact
with individuals in the various places and explain their desire
for fellowship through religion and common worship.
RELIGION: ITS VALUE TO THE WORLD 113
Pandit A". B. GOSVAMI said that the purpose of religion
was to reinstate the soul in its state of natural activity. The
limitations that hampered body and mind were not found on the
plane of the soul. These limitations could not be eliminated,
but they could be transcended by devotion to God, which
was the proper function of the soul. The soul had an ever-
lasting existence, but when under the influence of the lower
nature it was invested again and again with a corporeal
frame. The idea that the human soul was transient was
contrary to the doctrine that God was All-Good. The theory
of the eternity of the soul, of the transmigration of souls
according to the law of cause and effect, was the only one
that gave a satisfactory explanation of the many problems of
earthly existence and demonstrated the cosmic law of justice
and love.
Mr. AYLMER MAUDE disagreed with the idea that the non-
religion of Soviet Russia was preferable to the religion of
Russia under Czardom. The religion of Czardom was
certainly corrupt, but it was not the real religion of Russia.
The real religious force there had been Tolstoy, and his
teaching had been one of brotherly love.
Mrs. DANK paid a special tribute, as a non-Muslim, to the
Muslim religion, and emphasized the tolerance of Islam for
others who believed in Gd. If all would be earnest in
seeking the One God, all differences and difficulties would be
finally removed at that plane.
H
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT
FOURTH SESSION,
Monday', July 7.6th.
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT
Dr. WILLARD L. SPERRY (Chairman)
It is a very great personal pleasure and honour to be in
the Chair for the Session this morning. As a Christian
Protestant of the Left Party, I should like to take this occasion
to say that I have learnt more from the writings of the Roman
Catholic Modernist Movement, and particularly Tyrell, than
from any other group, as interpreters of the Christian religion.
They throw light on a great many dark places. Their Move-
ment has been driven underground, but remains one of the
hopeful movements of our time.
We have as our lecturer this morning one who for a time
has been identified with that Movement, one that remains
one of the
'
prophetic movements and hopeful movements
of our time. In the religions of the world the problem we
have to solve is the nature of time. The nations of the West
have a profound feeling for history, and the Christian religion
has had to consider whether its
passionate interest in the
sequence of things in time Should remain, or whether it
should cast in its lot with those religions which conceive of
spiritual principles as being timeless. As Professor Birkett
of Cambridge said: "It was in the second century that the
Christian Church decided to continue writing the annals
of God in time."
Professor Buonaiuti has continued faithfully to write the
annals of God in time, and to interpret what had already been
written on that subject. He comes to us as a companion in
our perplexities and distresses, and in our hopes. It was
Nietzsche who said: "There is an aristocracy of people who
have suffered." That aristocracy comprises a much larger
number of people today than twenty-five years ago.
117
n8 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
x
As one of his admirers has said, Professor Buonaiuti is a
penetrating, learned, and sympathetic student of personal
religion in the Early Church and in the Middle Ages, and is
in intimate touch with the problems of the present age.
Professor ERNESTO BUONAIUTI
A Roman by birth, brought up a Catholic, excommunicated
from the Church of my forefathers on a charge of heresy, I
have come to understand George Tyreirs great saying, that
there are excommunications which are salutary, and that
the revival of religious life
today lies with the exiles from the
established churches who live, and are able to proclaim, a
spiritual life which is universal, outside the narrow limits of
the churches more prone, alas, to create divisions than to
promote unity and I am happy to be with you here today,
under the shelter and inspiration of one of the most venerable
centres of culture and religion in the world, in order to seek
with you some way of satisfying the world-wide longing for a
religious experience which shall be at the same 'time deeper
and more brotherly.
I cannot talk to you in your own inexhaustible language,
and my only qualification for talking to you at all is the irre-
parable suffering and ostracism which have come to me, and
the restless anxiety which makes me scan the horizon every
time the sun rises at dawn and disappears in the glory of
sunset for signs of the coming of the Kingdom of God.
One of the greatest sociologists of the nineteenth century,
we may even call him the creator of social science, your
countryman Herbert Spencer, has indicated at some length
the analogies which may be drawn between the individual
as an organism and the organic life of the community. The
social organism, like the individual, is characterized by
specialization of function, by processes of growth and decay,
by the solidarity of its members in the unfolding of their
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT 119
common organic life, and by various crises of development.
Assuming this parallelism, we are justified in thinking that
social organisms may also have diseases and periods of
infection. No one will wish to dispute the fact that society
today, is
passing through a period of constitutional impoverish-
ment. The difficulty is rather to diagnose the nature and the
cause of the disorder. Following up the analogy we might
say that the disease from which contemporary spiritual life
is suffering is one which has attacked the respiratory organs.
What our social life lacks is the oxygen of big ideals, the fresh
air of the great realities of the Spirit, the sense of real values
beyond all the merely sensible and empirical.
Wfc have made extensive provision for the care of the
physically disabled, for social prophylaxis and the prevention
of contagion, for building up the strength of invalids and for
restoring the energies of underfed, suffering children, but we
have lost sight of the no less imperative need of providing
oxygen for the social respiratory organs, in order that society
may breathe deeply and healthily. This is not the moment
to call *f6 account those institutions to whom ex hypothesi is
entrusted the task of keeping the air breathed by the com-
munity pure, nor to inquire whether it is not precisely to
these institutions that the chief responsibility for the steady
poisoning of the spiritual atmosphere must be assigned. It
is a fact that the organized churches seem to have become
incapable of providing the atmosphere which supports the
spiritual life of the community with those elements which
should renew and elevate that life, and without which the
spiritual horizon seems to become dark, heavy, and stifling.
We see on all sides praiseworthy efforts to bring the
churches together and to discover statements of faith which,
blotting out the old disputes over dogma and discipline, shall
restore to the Christian faith, the world over, that constructive
power of leadership which seems to be so disastrously lost.
But we wonder whether the crisis of contemporary
spirituality does not reach down to regions in the sub-
conscious life of the community deeper than those in which
i2o THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
ecclesiastical institutions and dogmas have their roots. The
present crisis of faith is not a denominational one; it is rather
a crisis of intensive spirituality. We venture to ask ourselves
whether it does not involve every form of faith, every form
of religious tradition; in fact we ask ourselves whether the
problem, which must present itself to everybody who is
aware of the tortured unrest of the world, is not in fact the
problem of the very possibility of faith itself, of the possibility
of determining its content, of the necessity for a return to that
sense of the sacredness and mysteriousness of the Universe
from which religion derives its first
impulse and its continual
renewal.
It is our very conquest, amazing as it is, of the physical
forces of the Universe, our very control of what St. Paul
called the elements of the wortdy
which has brought about the
dimming of our spiritual sight and rendered obtuse our
capacity to respond to God's call to us and to understand
His revelation of Himself. Our great advances in the
technique of living together have been effected at the cost
of our spiritual development. Indeed it would almost seem
as if true spiritual well-being varied inversely with a technical
mastery of the means of living. All those who, the world
over, sense the dangers now threatening the spiritual
traditions of mankind, must recognize the urgent necessity of
undertaking a cure for the revival of their own listless
spirituality, so that by the reanimation of their own
weakened energies the strength of those who are their
brothers in distress and in hope may be revived.
As Spencer said, there are indeed surprising analogies
between the working of the human organism and that of
the social body.
But this is
only the reaffirmation of an idea which goes
back to the remotest antiquity and was proclaimed in the
earliest religious utterances which transformed the magical
cult of the primitive races into a mystically social concept of
the Universe. According to this
conception the individual
represents the universal life in miniature, and there is no
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT 121
physical phenomenon in Nature without its
parallel and its
complement in the individual. The analogies in fact between
the working of the individual organism and the epiphenomena
of social life
represent only an intermediate stage between
those vaster analogies which exist between the human organism
and the whole life of the Cosmos.
If, accepting this order of ideas, we think that the crisis
affecting our contemporary life bears something more than a
metaphorical resemblance to those diseases which so tragically
consume the respiratory passages of the individual, the
very terms of the analogy may help us to draw conclusions
as to the nature and course of the disorder.
We may note then that diseases of the respiratory passages
are cured by the pure air of the mountains, by the vast horizons
of great altitudes. If the disease afflicting our collective
spirituality is a disease of the lungs, we may hope to restore
them to a healthy expansiveness only by seeking, on those
same "heights where of old the greatest revelations of God
were vouchsafed, the pure and limpid atmosphere of our
earliest adventures in the world of spirit.
This may be taken quite literally as well as symbolically.
For us, to climb is to return to our origins. When our far-off
ancestors, descending from their prehistoric abodes, took
their several paths throughout the world, their starting-
place was those high plateaux of the Middle East on which
the destinies of human civilizations were decided. We might
say that it was on the plateau of the Hindu Kush that European
and Asiatic civilization took leave one day of each other, to
meet again somewhere, somehow, on the road leading to the
fullest development, the highest expression of their
respective
endowments, of their respective ideals. You will remember
the old custom between host and guest in the ancient world.
At the moment of separation they broke a bone, and retained
each a portion, so as to be able to recognize each other, if
they should ever meet again, by the exact coincidence of the
122 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
two pieces. These were the symbols of a former hospitality
ever ready to be renewed. Millenniums ago, at the moment
of that separation which their different roads across the world
necessitated, our forefathers exchanged the symbols of their
common brotherhood, so that some day, somewhere,, tired
of their wanderings and longing to be gathered once 'more
under the same roof-tree, they might, all at once, renew their
mutual understanding, and their fellowship in the elementary
ties of blood-relationship, byputting together the still cherished
fragments, the jagged edges of their sorrows and of their
unrealized ideals.
So here are we, met today to exchange the symbols of our
remote community of faith and hope so that this divided
human family may come to realize its solidarity and unity in
the eternal values of faith.
The old faiths are worn out with agelong deterioration.
The established traditions are impoverished, and their use-
fulness destroyed, by a process, for which they themselves
are responsible, of a too minute and casuistical determination.
If they are to regain their sadly diminished power-of'building
character, if they are ever again to become pure and whole-
some, fit instruments for our spiritual renewal, we must
bring them back to their original sources, test them on those
touchstones of reality, the central value of the religious con-
sciousness of mankind, try to transform them in the fire of
that sacred experience which once caused our forefathers to
emerge from a primitive stage of magical religion towards a
religion which was mystical and full of grace. In the language
of Bergson, our static religion and static morality need today,
as never before, to be transformed into a dynamic religion
and a dynamic morality, which is not subject to the rigid
limitations of dogmatic formulae and bureaucratic discipline,
but seeks only the free highroad which unites men of all
types
who seek to penetrate the mysteries of God.
The boldness of such a programme must not frighten us.
If we are really convinced that the need for religion springs
today from one of the gravest spiritual crises in the history
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT
of civilization, we must be prepared to accept daring ideas and
radical solutions.
We shall suffer some discomfort on the way. Our lungs,
shrivelled and diseased by our weary stay in the foetid
atmosphere of the lowlands, with all their contagions, cannot
but suffer a severe reaction caused by the sudden transition
to the rarefied, vibrant mountain air. But this is the price of
salvation, and there is no birth, or rebirth, which does not
involve a danger of death.
But we cannot in any way close our eyes to a state of
things as obvious as it is
tragic. In relation to the physical
world the stage of our spirituality, actually by reason of the
immense progress of science, is not substantially and morally
different from that of a savage or of primitive man who
believed that by means of his magical powers he could with
his own hands control Nature and transform her into a
docile robot, mechanically obedient to his will. The scientist
who thinks that by his calculations he holds world forces in
his grasp, a toy of his will, is
morally no better than the
magician, with his incantations and ritual, who imagines
that he can snatch from his surroundings the oracles which
he wants and the cure for his various ills. There is an
apparent, illusory mastery over Nature, which really reduces
man to the condition of a slave in relation to the physical
world, for it makes him lose that awareness of the intangible
region of mystery and the unexpected, which alone gives
him his peculiar privilege of being a son of God and co-
worker with Him.
And we must recover this awareness if ever we are to
rediscover faith amid the existing forms of faith, and amid
the various human sciences that one science which alone can
safeguard man from becoming once more, at any moment
of his history, and at any stage of apparent human progress,
a barbarian and a savage.
It is thousands of years since the first
prophetic-messianic
religion, the religion of Zarathustra, tried violently to change
the basis of spiritual life from a magical worship of the cosmic
124 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
forces to an intimate sense of the moral character of the life
of the Universe, and of the unceasing conflict between life
and no-life, light and darkness, good and evil in this world.
This fight is
staged in two settings, the physical world and the
heart of man. But man is not merely a point in the immense
field on which the two conflicting principles meet; he him-
self is an instrument in the service of the good. principle,
which labours in the Universe in order triumphantly to
affirm its
disputed sovereignty. Various other teachings of
the same prophetic-messianic type followed that of Zara-
thustra. All represented an attempt to escape from a purely
physical conception of the world to a moral conception. All
tried to replace the category of being, as the indispensable
and prime factor in a dialectical account of the Universe, by
the category of life, of goodness, of the Kingdom of God.
We are not here to attempt the arduous task of assessing
the relative importance,and value of these different teachings.
At a moment like this, rendered dramatic by the corruption
of the old spiritual traditions, and by the lack of any sure
orientation in our work of spiritual reconstruction, our
imperative task is to climb once more the mountain heights
of the past in order to recover the possibility of discerning on
the horizon the dawn of our own destiny.
Zarathustra identified the principle hostile to good with
falsehood. It is no metaphor which identifies falsehood with
darkness. We would say rather that there is a falsehood in
the physical world which is darkness, and that there is a
darkness in the human world which is the capacity of man
for lying and bloodshed. I am sometimes inclined to wonder
whether the first
thing for anyone who wishes, in this universal
religious shipwreck, to grasp some working principle of salva-
tion, some sure basis of faith, is not, above all, to concentrate
his spiritual energies on escaping from that purely metaphysical
conception of the world, to which the ecclesiastical traditions
have accustomed us, in order to attain to a conception which
is
absolutely and exclusively moral.
It is not without profound significance that all the great
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT 125
reformed feligions, from Zarathustra through Buddhism to
Christianity, regard as essential to religious life, not the
problem of the nature of God, but rather that of our conduct
in relation to the Divine in the world and in the life of men.
And it is so and not otherwise that the disturbing problem
as to the possibility of faith for us today must be approached.
What our modern world lacks is a sense of the sacredness of
life in all its manifestations, for only from such a sense can
spring those perceptions and reactions of which human
society has imperative need if it is to be distinguished from
the pack life of animals and the primitive life of the clan,
which depend on reprisal and rapine. This sense of the
sacredness of life is the very matrix from which spring all
religious faiths. If the specific task of the human intellect is
that of organizing" and arranging our empirical knowledge
of the world in static, unchangeable forms, we can at once
understand how human culture is for ever dramatically torn
between the need to shut itself
up in the neat schematizations
of the intellect and the need to overleap these so as to restore
to life-forces their elasticity and power of expansion. The
conflict between faith and the faiths is
just one aspect of this
perennial drama.
It is inevitable that the peaks of intellectual attainment
should be moments in which the primitive sense of the
sacredness of life is enfeebled, and, paradoxically enough, an
age of rational enlightenment may be, at the same time, an
age of ferocity and barbarism. A return to the conception
of the sacredness of life
may mean the salvation of
civilization.
But what is this recovery and revival of the sense of the
sacredness of existence, that sense which is the fount and
origin of all faith, but an immediate and deliberate contact
with the real values of life, with all that they involve and
demand?
Faith is not adhesion to a statement of dogma; faith is
not inscription in the registers of a visible community. Faith
is not acceptance of a speculative system. Faith is
essentially
126 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
a quickening of the Spirit before the enthralling and tre-
mendous mystery in which the forms of universal life and its
development are involved.
It may be said that the positive faiths, the established
religions, betray their proper nature when they try to
formulate, accurately and exhaustively, just what is ineffable
and incapable of formulation, that original direct religious
apprehension. Of this truth we have a striking example in
the history of the most imposing branch of Christianity, the
Roman Catholic Church. For centuries and centuries the
Christian Church knew nothing of any theoretical proof of
the existence of God. From the New Testament writings,
in which faith in the Father and His righteousness is an
unchallenged assumption, through the patristic literature
down to Carolingian times, the Christian faith was an intense
and living experience which did not concern itself to prove
the existence of God with syllogism and category. It may be
said that the first proof, technically conceived and outlined,
of the existence of God was that attempted by St. Anselm,
with his ontological argument. The scholastic, philosophy
replaced the a priori method by the a posteriori method
derived from Aristotle, with its proofs derived from con-
ceptions of motion and cause. But we might say that, while
St. Anselm thought out his arguments with a view to putting
an imaginary unbeliever in the wrong, unbelief and atheism
actually made their appearance in the world of Christian
thought at the moment when the Thomistic philosophy
believed that it was basing an incontrovertible proof of the
existence of God upon dialectical processes, supposed to have
the coercive force of a mathematical theorem. The case is a
highly enlightening one. Faith cannot be the result of a
syllogism, and, if we want to make our faith in the Divine
depend on a dialectical process, we deform the act of faith
and we profane that conception of the sacred reality before
which our hearts would, and should, lie
prostrate. We must
not forget that Aristotle set forth with his notions of cause, of
potentiality, and of act only to arrive at the assertion of a
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT 127
motionless "prime mover whose essential quality is that of
being impassive and perfect in himself, and of being able, as
he says, to do without any friend whatsoever.
The great historical religions, on the other hand, have
conceived God as the Father, the great Provider, who
watches over His children and suffers whenever we wander
away from Him, and whose heart is
wrung as often as we
make shipwreck of our lives.
Our spiritual asphyxia began on the day when we tried to
turn faith into a mechanical argument, our religious sense
into an arithmetical calculation.
Nor need we imagine that if we restore faith to that pre-
logical, pre-dialectical stage which is its
specific domain, we
are in danger of impoverishing the fulness of our spiritual
life. There are many realities in the world of which philosophy
knows nothing, and there are, hidden away in the recesses
of our consciousness, capacities for apprehending the sacred
reality outside ourselves that have nothing to do with our
proclivity for syllogistic argument.
On-the contrary. An exaggerated development of the
reasoning powers of an individual, or of a group, always takes
place to the detriment of a full, healthy, complete life of the
spirit, because, as Bergson has shown so beautifully in his
Evolution Creatrice, pure intelligence always causes arrest and
paralysis in the upward thrust of the ilan vital^ and every
time, in the life of an individual or in the history of a society,
that the laws of life demand a renewal of efficiency, it is
precisely to all the extra-logical regions of the spirit that
recourse must be made. Is not faith essentially, in its own
living, organic dialectic, just a direct apprehension of, and
contact with, the central, mystery-shrouded nucleus of life?
In our Mediterranean world the beginnings of both experi-
mental science and of speculative thought are generally
referred to those Ionic philosophers who, at the dawn of
Greek culture, tried to identify the primordial elements of
the world. The various Ionic schools chose in turn earth,
air, fire, and water as the one original element underlying the
128 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
phenomenal changes and transitions of the Cosmos. In the
same way faith, too, is a constantly renewed effort to draw
from the heart of universal spirituality its central element
and its
simplest law.
Rejecting, then, all
attempts to limit or transcribe by any
kind of abstract formula the formidable mystery of the
Universe and of life, whoever, amid the shipwreck and dis-
solution of all the traditional faiths, and in disquieting
awareness of the crisis which threatens, and which already
envelops us, is conscious of the need of a faith which may
uplift and purify, must approach this mystery in a spirit of
reverent awe and worship, asking for light not imposing
formulae.
We, too, are in search of the simple elements of life; but
we shall not try to find them by means of the instruments
of our so proud, but poverty-stricken, intellectual investiga-
tion; nor shall we imagine that we have reached them when
we have elaborated complex solutions of the problem of being.
For the elements of the mystery in which we are immersed
are beyond us and overwhelm us. This mystery.is in the life
of our individual spirit; it is in the complex logic of collective
human life; it is in the vast whirling panorama of cosmic
existence. The attitude of faith in the face of mystery is not
the attitude of one who tries to solve a riddle or to analyse
the parts of a whole ;
it is the attitude of one who seeks to
insert himself within it, in conformity with the laws which
the Divine principle in the world holds in His power and
directs to His ends. And our contribution towards the
solution of the religious crisis in which we are involved will
have been loyally and honestly made when, closing our eyes,
as was taught of old by the eastern mystics, to all that is
empirical, and opening wide the eye of the soul on the interior
world of spiritual realities, we have offered our ephemeral
existence as a voluntary sacrifice to the principles of goodness
and light, which are bearing the immensity of universal
existence towards a destiny which God has planned.
Faith is not just a statement of fact; it is the subordination
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT 129
of the will to that heavenly economy which is
bringing the
Universe to righteousness.
In the dawn light of Ionic philosophy, rationalistic, scientific
speculation may have been satisfied to imagine that the
kaleidoscopic flux of world forms was a process arising from
fire or wind, earth or water; faith must discover the mystery
that dwells in the devouring fire of love, in the consuming
hurricane of grief, in the crushing earthweight of remorse,
and in the brackish waters of death.
These are the great values and the elementary forces of the
spiritual life. Faith consists wholly in awareness of the
sacred character of these values and these forces. And
civilizations cease to be religious and lose their faith when
they turn love into a coarse biological episode, grief into a
particular physical phenomenon, remorse into a psychical
disease, and death into an insignificant event in time.
For faith to revive we must become aware of the enormous
depth of responsibility and the great aureole of mystery
which make the fact of love grave and terrible. For faith to
revive we must become convinced that there is no grief or
suffering which does not conceal and contain an infinite
capacity for expiation and redemption. For faith to revive
we must become tragically aware that no man ever kills his
brother in this world, that no drop of blood is ever shed, that
no tear falls from human eyes, that does not lay a heavy
weight of responsibility upon every rational creature. For
faith to revive we must patiently cultivate the perception,
fraught as it is with terror and with joy, that life and death
are not nicely separated by a dividing line in time, but are on
the contrary continually in contact one with the other, and
that, at every moment, life endures the onslaught of death,
and that, at every moment, too, life draws from the fleeting
triumph of death material for fresh victories and loftier flights.
Old Heraclitus, perhaps echoing unconsciously some
remote Iranic proverb, pronounced the mysterious words:
addvaroi ffvyTol, Ovrjrol aOdvarot, a>i/Te$ TOV eicelv&v Bdvarov,
rov Se Kiva)v $lov T0i/eT9 "Immortal the mortals, mortal
130 THE WORLD S NEED OF RELIGION
are the immortals; the mortals seek to suck the life of the
immortals; the immortals seek to transfigure and revive the
death of mortals."
Thus faith is a daring conquest of all the hidebound
determinations of our empirical knowledge and of our rational
habits of thought. It is the revelation of a transcendental
reality, of which the world of appearances is but a pale,
colourless reflection. To be born again into faith is indeed to
pass beyond empirical experience, and to touch, in that other
world of impalpable spiritual experience, realities of which
phenomena are at the same time an expression and a travesty.
It is therefore by contact with the central facts of our own
inner life and spiritual pilgrimage that we must, above all,
try to recover that sense of the sacredness of the world to
which the historical forms of faith have always and every-
where made appeal.
When our spiritual consciousness has become capable of
realizing the mystery inherent in the most rudimentary
expressions of our mental and emotional life, when we have
become aware of the profound significance of love and grief,
of remorse and death, and of their vast extra-individual range,
then we shall naturally be drawn to look with the eye of
faith, which is
hope and awe, on the arch-mystery of the
social life of men.
Probably the chief cause of our pitiful religious shipwreck,
and of our loss of confidence in the traditional forms of faith,
is due to the fact that our rationalistic enlightenment labours
under the delusion that social life can be mechanically regulated
and disciplined.
An organic, living faith became impossible for us when we
forgot that the soil in which man's social life has its roots,
and from which it derives its nourishment, is a region of grace
freely bestowed.
"
Hast thou seen thy brother ?
"
the primitive
Christians asked each other.
"
Thou has seen thy God. Bow
down and worship." Here is the fundamental formula for
every religious faith. The deep conviction that we have not
to seek God a long way off, in unusual, miraculous acts, but
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT 131
that life is
altogether a miracle, and the Universe an Odyssey
of prodigies ; the deep conviction that God is not at the other
end of a discoverable series of causes, a first cause and motion-
less mover, but that He is in every meeting of soul with soul
and i$ to be found in the eyes of our suffering brother and in
the beating of every broken heart. This is faith, and the only
faith which can save us.
Probably our deplorable spiritual poverty began on the
day when we forgot that man's life in society is an infinite
mystery, and that true communication between man and man
is communication of the gifts of the spirit.
Of course when we deplore an impoverishment in our
sense of the possible grace concealed within social life, when
we attribute our religious decadence to forgetfulness of the
sacramental value of all
spiritual communion between men,
we implicitly recognize that the magico-sacramental structure,
so widely in use in certain confessional forms of the Christian
tradition, no longer performs that constructive, concrete
work of edification which was its original function.
We need only recall on the one hand St. Paul's teaching
with regard to the eucharistic love-feast, and the present-day
Catholic doctrine of the miracle of transubstantiation by
means of a formula on the other, in order to measure at a
glance the abyss separating the social mysticism of primitive
Christianity from the individualistic supernaturalism of
present-day Roman practice.
For St. Paul, Christ is
present in the bread when, and only
when, the community itself is, first of all, the living mystical
body of the Lord. And participation in the mystical body of
the Lord is not just a guarantee of individual survival, which
might equally well be guaranteed to the partakers of an Orphic
or a Mithraic agape ;
it is rather a shared anticipation, a common
foretaste of that banquet, which God the Father will prepare
for His faithful in His Kingdom.
Perhaps the distinguishing feature of Christianity, and the
chief reason for its immense historic development, is to be
found precisely in the fact that Christianity has carried to
132 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
its sublimest and most inclusive expression a mystical inter-
pretation of man's life in society. This life, in the light of the
Christian message, which in this, as in so many other points
of its
teaching, is heir to the religious traditions which came
down from the Iranic plateau, is seen no longer, and not
only, as a potential bureaucracy, but also and above all as a
complex of mystical relationships whose normative value is in
inverse proportion to their rational comprehensibility.
On the basis of this assumption, we may say that the
Christian Church is
irrevocably condemned to lose its dis-
ciplinary virtue in the world, whenever its visible, official,
bureaucratic elements threaten to predominate and to stifle
the mystical and the sacramental.
We may go further. We may say that when the Church,
and the churches, come to rely absolutely on their this-
worldly, bureaucratic powers; when they find it
necessary, in
the discharge of th^ir spiritual duties, to have recourse to, and
depend on, the purely political organizations of the world;
then the Church and the churches are irreparably guilty of
treason to the other-worldly principles which gave them birth,
and the care and preservation of which is their true task.
The crisis of the faiths to-day, and more especially of the
Christian faith, lies wholly in this fact alone, that Christianity
has forgotten that her real task, her own peculiar trust from
which there is no escape, is to assert, and to show forth in
her own life, before all
organized bodies whatever, all forms
of corporate life, political and social, the principle that there
exists a supra-sensible community of spirits, above all the
actual barriers between man and man, above all artificial
divisions of caste, whose social unity is due to grace derived
from the outpouring of the Spirit of God.
The spiritual shipwreck of our race began when we
disastrously forgot that the social life of men has nothing in
common with the herd life of animals, which is
capable of a
mechanical discipline by violence.
The human community lives in history because it is the
vehicle and embodiment of a Divine Spirit, who disciplines
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT
and educates by rules which belong to the other world of
transcendental realities and ideals, which altogether surpass
any this-world realization of them.
When this undercurrent of the Spirit beneath the whole
structure of man's everyday social life comes to be realized,
then the foundation is laid for a real faith in the active working
of a Divine Principle which, through our infinitesimal, but
indispensable, contribution to the effort of travail, is realizing
all the time, here and now, the ideal of His Kingdom.
From a realization of the transcendental character of our
particular individual experience, from a belief in a divine
plan actively realizing itself in the development of man's
social life, there naturally arises faith in a transcendental
Principle, the scene of whose work lies also in the physical
world.
It is little more than a century since Schleiermacher postu-
lated, as the basis of every faith, the sense of our absolute
dependence on a Wholly Other than ourselves, of whose
potent action we are aware even before we can know any-
thing whatever of His nature or His will. More recent
religious philosophy, thanks especially to extensive com-
parative research in the multiform world of man's religious
belief, has been able to analyse, in all its nicest refinements,
the working out of this sense of ours of our utter dependence,
from which every form of faith arises. This Other than our-
selves, who must uninterruptedly support our existence if we
are to escape an instantaneous precipitation into nothingness,
is a sacred reality which disturbs our whole being to its
remotest roots by its
enthralling splendour and its tremendous
potency. Both philosophy and theology are too prone to
place this transcendent reality far away on the edge of some
dim horizon that seems to have no real connection with the
deeper regions of our sentient existence.
Faith, a faith worthy of the name, must exert itself, now
more than ever before, to span the abyss which our presump-
tuous metaphysic has carved between us and our Father who
is in Heaven.
134 THE WORLD S NEED OF RELIGION
Let us learn from the exquisite Gospel parable riot to feel
ashamed of the squalor of our tattered garments and the
parched thirst of our shrivelled souls.
In the live thought of the highest historical expressions of
faith, God is not only the Father who suffers when He is for-
saken by His children, and who discerns, while they are still
a long way off, the wanderers who are returning, eager to
get ready a great feast to welcome them home, but -we must
boldly use a word which will sound irreverent only to those
who fail to realize the sublimity and infinite value of every
act and every moment of human life He is also the Com-
panion and Sustainer of all our weary strivings after truth
and justice.
This reassuring certainty that the Father is not far from
us, but is
continually at our side, holding in His hand the
frail thread of our brief existence, this firm assurance that the
fatherhood of God is not something active, once only, at the
mythical beginnings of the world, but is
ceaselessly at work in
the dramatic unfolding of cosmic life, necessarily leads to an
apocalyptic, eschatological interpretation of life and history,
without which, we believe, there never can be real religious
faith, and never has been since religion first emerged from
being a belief in magic and became ethico-prophetic in
character.
Ever since the Iranic prophet Zarathustra became aware of
the living dialectic of two principles in eternal conflict, and
prophesied the resolution of the conflict on the day when the
principle of light should succeed in bringing under his
dominion all his companions in effort and aspiration, the
vision of the Kingdom of God, conceived, not as an in-
dividual reward in a disembodied immortality, but as the
supreme realization of all transcendental values, has become,
for ever, one of the fundamental elements of faith.
And Christianity has brought that element to perfection by
making the Kingdom of God the final denouement of the cosmic
and human drama, and, at the same time, presenting man
with the possibility of realizing that Kingdom already, here
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT 135
and now, in a spiritual fellowship of human brotherhood over
which broods for ever the inspiration of the Spirit of God.
It has now become a commonplace to say that Christianity
has reached a turning-point in its
history.
The crisis is not confined to Christianity. We may say that
it is a crisis of all established religious traditions. This does
not depend on human malice ; it arises from the radical changes
which our technique of industry and labour have undergone
in relation to the physical forces of the world.
By a strange, though understandable, paradox, the im-
poverishment of our spiritual life is
proportionate to the
increased resourcefulness and elaboration of our technical
progress.
We must summon up courage to recognize this intimate,
desperate poverty of our spiritual life.
Blessed are the poor, declares the Gospel, for our salvation
lies in the recognition of our fundamental poverty. Our
spiritual life is one continual act of mendicancy.
What is. love but a begging for love?
What is
grief but an imploring demand for consolation?
What is remorse but a desperate cry for forgiveness?
What is death but an impassioned claim to survival and
remembrance? Our spiritual life is in fact a sum total of
wants and miseries.
It is this sense of our inherent poverty which should make
us approach social life in full awareness of our dependence.
We must not forget that the more aware we are of our essential
deficiencies, the more plentifully we shall find them satisfied
in the joy of a common life lived in
fellowship and love;
because, when human society really presents itself to us as
an organization for sharing the common benefits which are
'showered by God on all who seek Him and call upon Him,
reverently, and in brotherly comprehension of the needs
of others, then, indeed, life will cease to be that terrible drama
of violence and brutality to which man's unfettered instincts
have reduced it, and will become a joyous foretaste of that
136 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
Kingdom of God, in which one day the God of light and
loyalty will overthrow once for all the principle of darkness
and deceit.
SYNOPSIS OF DISCUSSION
Mr. ROM LANDAU said he supposed that everyone who
knew Italian was especially grateful that morning for this
knowledge. The point which had struck him particularly
and was new to him was the fact that 1000 years after Christ,
God as a natural reality, as the power which carried us on
His shoulders, was for the first time approached in a spirit
of intellectual inquiry. He questioned whether we could
return to a position of the religious problem in terms prior
to those of the Scholastica. This was a very important, and
in fact almost the central, problem in modern Christianity,
because just at that very moment the profane character crept
into all our churches, and religion ceased to be a living fact
and became more and more an observance. Could that spirit
of reality that filled Christianity before that particular moment
be regained and revitalized within the framework of the
Roman Catholic Church or of any Christian Church today?
Could we revitalize and spiritualize the churches and make
Christianity a reality not only in individuals, but in organized
religion by basing ourselves upon the teaching of the Church
and within the Church?
Professor BUONAIUTI (summarized and interpreted by
Mr. ROM LANDAU). The professor said that the question
touched him intimately in his own experience, and therefore
he could only give an answer as personal. In fact, an answer
was impossible because the individual could not give an
answer for the whole of the religious community. The
question was too vast. Looking historically upon the
question, Christianity, as embodied in the Roman Catholic
Church, no longer had that spiritualizing and revitalizing
power. But we could not see what powers were active in
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT 137
the background, and so could not know in what way it
might
revitalize itself in the future.
Dr. ALFRED HALL said that the Professor had pointed out
that it was well to go back to original sources and make
them the touchstone of reality. He had quoted Bergson,
but Bergson's idea of the ilan vital seemed to suggest a force
driving from behind, whereas surely what one needed was
rather an ideal that drew one on?
Professor BUONAIUTI replied that Dr. Hall's problem seemed
to be not a spiritual but a scholastic one. The ilan vital could
not be separated from the force in front of us which drew
us on. We were carried on by the stream of divine life, and
therefore there was no difference between the force behind
and that which was before. It was all one stream, and time
was an extra-religious category.
Mrs. RHYS DAVIDS acknowledged indebtedness to Professor
Buonaiuti for the quotation from Tertullian: "Hast thou
seen thy brother? Thou hast seen thy God. Bow down
and worship." This was anticipated centuries earlier in the
Upanishads, when the teacher Yajnavalkya had said that the
wife was dear anyone was dear because the Self was dear,
which in the immanence of that day meant that the God-
within-you was dear. The Buddha had carried that idea a
step further, adding :
"
Since to every man the self is dear,
let him see to it he harm no other man." He might have
carried it further still as the great basis of human fellowship.
He saw each man as a wayfarer through life with every other
man, all
sharing a common goal. Whether Bergson's elan
vital was of the vis a tergo or not, here was the great drawing
force the sharing in a wayfaring towards a common goal.
Mr, PAYNE said that Professor Buonaiuti had asked: "What
is love but a begging for love." Did he not think that love
is such that when it
springs up in the heart it is
impossible
to suppress it?
138 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
Professor BUONAIUTI replied that the essence of the Gospel
was to be found in blessedness: "Blessed are those who
recognize that life is to go a-begging." The day life first
manifested itself in the world, the day that a lichen appeared
in the crack of a rock, that day the poem of life had its
beginning, and it is a poem of research and of implo^ation,
because every life is in need of the external world. The life
of man, more than any other manifestation of life, is an
uninterrupted appeal to others, an appeal for help and
assistance.
Mr. AYLMER MAUDE said that when theologists began to
divide God, Christianity lost God. The same was true of
the present meetings. So long as people talked about
aspirations, they were one. If they tried to say anything
definite and clear, they disagreed. It was the curse of a
great many organized religions that, having received revela-
tions from of old, they discouraged thought, lest their
followers should wish to contradict the revelations. As an
example of this, the churches said that God created the
whole world. This implied that God also created that
which is evil in the world, therefore God could not be
All-Good. From this confusion the churches could find
no way out.
Professor BUONAIUTI asked whether it was not reason
which created duality and division. Religion being the
power that unifies that which might be an apparent con-
tradiction, we could not possibly explain religious mystery
with reason. It was better that we could not do so because
reason divides while religion always unites that is, the
religious instinct, not organized religion.
The Begum SULTAN MIR AMIRUDDIN disagreed that the
exercise of reason was detrimental to spiritual understanding.
From the point of view of Islam, reason and spirituality were
not contradictory, but complementary. Through the exercise
of reason were we able to see God. Because of this, Islam
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT
gave the mighty impetus to the cultivation of the sciences.
Science and religion were not antagonistic in Islam. When
Islam was at the height of its intellectuality it was at the
height of its
spirituality, and was able at that time to hand
down the torch of civilization to Europe.
Professor BUONAIUTI regretted that he had to be un-
chivalrous 'to a lady, but definitely contradicted what the
Begum had said. Having been brought up on a basis of
rational investigation into religious matters, he thanked
God every day that he had been able to preserve the simplicity
and power of faith which is the only possible approach to
religion, and he felt that in any and in all religions, not only
the Roman Catholic, those two powers must always be
antagonistic, without any possibility of compromise. Religion
could only be approached purely spiritually and through
faith.
AFTAB-UD-DIN-AHMAD (Imam of Woking Mosque) said
that reason was helped and extended through religious
experience in the same way that eyesight was helped by
spectacles. He did not feel it was true to say that reason
could lead us to God without the help of spirituality.
Professor BUONAIUTI agreed with the Imam that the senses
and reason could help our spiritual conception and could act
as a kind of spectacles, but fundamentally more important
that the eyes of the mind were the eyes that man carried in
his heart intuition and imagination. All mystical tradition,
Islamic included, had always stressed the importance of
opening the spiritual eyes and closing the physical eyes.
This simply meant that the physical eyes and ears belonged
to a lower order and not to the higher order which touches
the spiritual level.
Mrs. MONTGOMERY, speaking as a member of theWaldensian
Church, said that she felt that it was the creative love in
Christianity that needed to be stressed.
140 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
Professor BUONAIUTI indicated that this was,'' of course,
true.
Dr. WILLARD L. SPERRY (Chairman) said he was struck
by the fact that all those present who were not ultra-orthodox
members of their own churches were faced with the same
dilemma. Churches possess the symbolism by which religion
could be communicated. These symbols had the inestimable
advantage of a long history. We were able to make use
of them by acts of accommodation, but we were not able to
create new symbols for the aspirations which arose in our
common mind. The difficulty of a Movement like the
Congress of Faiths was the difficulty of creating the necessary
symbols for the communication of our ideas.
Professor BUONAIUTI questioned whether the symbols of
religion, or its sentiments, were the first to appear. Would
not the symbols of religion be born as soon as there was a
real religious feeling within us? The lack of new religious
symbols showed that the force of religious feeling was not
yet strong enough. When religion began to mean enough to
us as of social significance, then new symbols would replace
the old and would arise quite naturally from the religious
vitality within us. The same reason accounted for the lack
of religious art among us today. As soon as we began to
live up to the exigencies of a new experience, we should create
the new symbolism.
CHAIRMAN: It is
my office to thank Professor Buonaiuti
on behalf of those persons happily equipped with a knowledge
of Italian who could follow verbally what he said; and of
those who with a little Italian and French could follow to
a certain extent what he said. It was a tribute to the beauty
and clarity of his speech that we understood so much.
And where we did not understand Professor Buonaiuti, we
felt. Like a certain student who, after listening to a lecture
by Emerson, said: "I do not remember a word of what you
said, but to listen to you was like breathing ozone/' We
METHODS OF ATTAINMENT 141
who did not understand what Professor Buonaiuti said, feel
also that we have been breathing ozone.
I should like to refer to the journal Retigio, of which he
has been the editor for twelve years or more, gathering to
his help many of like mind a work of reliable scholarship
and dependable prophecy. One of the pioneering journals
of the century in our field.
METHODS OF DISSEMINATION
FIFTH SESSION,
Monday Afternoon,
July
METHODS OF DISSEMINATION
Dame EDITH LYTTELTON (in the Chair)
I have great pleasure in taking the Chair today for Mr. Rom
Landau, as I have often wished to meet him. I would rather
it had not to happen on a platform, for I have no idea whether
the few introductory remarks which I have been asked to
make will irritate *or stimulate him. Every chairman desires,
of course, to do the latter. However, I must hope for the best.
Mr. Landau is, I see from the programme, going to tell us
interesting things about his interviews with various people,
probably mystics, using that term broadly, and anything he
can tell us about such personalities must perforce be of
intense interest to us. There exist among our fellows, both
eastern and western, people with peculiar powers and
faculties which we call supernormal faculties; we know much
now about the curious composition of the human mind and
the supernormal faculties which many possess, and no longer
feel that utterances or visions are necessarily inspired because
they have found expression in strange and unaccustomed
ways. We have to judge by the content which is far more
interesting and important than the mechanism by which any
experience is conveyed to others. And even this content,
however august and imperative, cannot, as we know, express
more than a fragment of the ultimate truth, for this does not
lie within the guardianship of any one man or any one religion.
"That which can be expressed cannot be true," said the
great Chinese philosopher Lao Tse, hundreds of years ago,
in some such words explaining that our minds are not large
and powerful enough to understand what we may have been
privileged to hear or see or feel, and that therefore what we
145
146 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION t
express can only be a fragment of the truth, however real the
experience itself may have been.
The nostalgia of the human spirit, its
impression of exile,
the longing for another life, is one of these real experiences,
and we have innumerable records of individual and corporate
efforts to see, hear, and feel a spiritual presence. All the
religions of the world express this longing: most of them
say that they have come nearer to direct revelation of truth
than any other religion : each religion considers that it touches
the very mantle of God. In a sense, none do; in a sense,
all do. Poor little homunculus, with his dark mind and his
feeble body, is
yet able to stand outside his own being at
inspired moments and even hear and see and feel the vibrations
of a greater and more ethereal world. Words are clumsy
vehicles for thought and vision, and even the greatest mystical
genius of the world can often only give us a faint idea of his
intuitions. Very often, too, the message that we receive does
not come through religion at all; it comes through poetry,
music, or art.
I have been concerned for many years with the study of
the supernormal faculties of mankind, and I feel that in a
proper scientific comprehension of them we shall find the
explanation of our limitations as well as of our transcendences.
We are not what we seem; we are not mere pieces of
mechanism; we are not mere biological specimens; we are,
if one may borrow that term, amphibious. We can inhabit
different fields of existence.
Many have felt that in the study of telepathy or trance or
clairvoyance or prophecy or any other supernormal faculty,
they will find a highway into spiritual regions; it is one
of the delusions to which the human mind is
prone. The
great thing we have to realize and accept is that no mere
mechanism, no system or dogma or belief will give us, of
itself, what we ardently desire access to a life
beyond the
reach of our senses, access to God.
It is this passion of yearning which has produced so many
curious aberrations and so many magnificent dreams, embodied
METHODS OF DISSEMINATION 147
in various religions. Supernormal faculties may give evidence
of what is called extra-sensory perception, yet in themselves
be of little value. What may be of immense value is the
manner in which they are used.
When Mr. Landau tells us, as I imagine he will, of strange
occult powers, I for one shall be longing to hear to what use
such occult powers have been put; have they developed
great character or pregnant visions or fine and ennobling
visions? If they have done so we may be sure that although
they have not captured the universal truth, we have witness
of access to another form of life, and learned something of
the way to the fields of paradise. We see through a glass
darkly, but we see. . . .
Mr. ROM LANDAU
I am sure you all
sympathize with me for having to speak
to you this afternoon after Professor Buonaiuti, instead of
before him. After that Italian masterpiece I can only present
you with a-
very sketchy essay in bastard English, and after
the spiritual heights to which he took us this morning I fear
I must take you down to the very prosaic plains of everyday
necessity, suggested, perhaps, by the title of this address and
far less exalted than my kind Chairman suggested.
I have been asked to speak to you about the subject
indicated by the somewhat forbidding title of this talk in
connection with a recent experience of mine. That experience,
although quite personal, has a very strong bearing upon the
deliberations of this Congress, and I need not therefore
apologize for its
personal character.
Dissemination of what? Not of religion, of which we
have had quite enough, but rather of those spiritual truths
in which we all here believe. There are two possibilities for
the dissemination of truth; we can do it either among the
masses or among individuals. I shall confine my remarks
to the latter, for I believe that few things are more important
in our time than to make the men who are responsible for
148 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
r
the state of affairs in the world more conscious of a spiritual
way of looking at things instead of the traditional materialistic
one. Would such men listen if we spoke to them? This
is where my personal experience comes in.
Early this year I set out on a long journey through the
Near and Middle East. As far as Port Said I had the very
great pleasure of travelling with our Chairman, Sir Francis
Younghusband, on his way to the Ramakrishna Centenary
in India, and his company made me regret that I could not
go on with him to India instead of disembarking at Egypt.
I visited eight Muslim and three Christian countries:
Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Palestine, Transjordania, Syria, Lebanon,
Iraq, Turkey, Greece, Bulgaria, and Yugoslavia. My object
was twofold: to investigate the religious and spiritual con-
ditions among the people in that part of the world, and
especially among their leaders; and secondly, to disseminate
among those leaders the spiritual truths which we in this
Congress so firmly believe.
I was convinced, from the first moment when I decided to
go to the East, that no appeal had a greater chance of success
than the personal one, and I was very grateful to Sir Francis
when, one day on board ship after I complained to him
that the job I had set out to do was far too big for me and
really required a whole Royal Commission, he replied that
jobs of that kind could only be done by individuals; no
organization, not even the World Congress of Faiths, could
do them. Often I was grateful to him, and found new courage
through his words, especially when, worn out by continuous
interviews, at times in a language which either I or my host
only half understood, I would wonder whether there was any
sense in what I was attempting to do.
I mentioned two reasons for my going out, but there was
a third reason which I somehow dreaded to admit, even to
myself, although it was, perhaps, the most important. I
wanted to ascertain that those spiritual foundations, those
spiritual premises on which we base ourselves in this Congress,
are not just Utopian dreams which might not survive when
METHODS OF DISSEMINATION 149
brought face to face with the practical exigencies of life as
represented by those realists who are responsible for the
state of affairs in the present world. Would these men
respond to those truths in the spirit in which we would like
them to respond, or would they regard me as yet another of
those' harmless, sentimental lunatics from England who set
out every now and again across the world to preach some
new gospel of peace?
Perhaps it was not altogether by accident that I
began my
investigations in that part of the world which is the cradle
of western civilization, where Assyrian, Egyptian, Hebrew,
and Greek cultures were born, where Judaism, Christianity,
and Islam came into being, where Byzantium and Rome find
their cross-road (
even in our time.
So that you may judge for yourselves whether my findings
can have any practical value, I should like to mention that
I did not go to see the kindly heads of philanthropic societies,
of whose welcome I could be assured beforehand, but men
who were actually leading the affairs of their country. I
visited four kings, six prime ministers, twenty-three other
ministers, nine heads of churches, and rectors of universities,
presidents of banks and scientific societies, intellectuals and
educationists.
Even quite early in my travels I realized that, among the
masses, nationalism was still the main driving force. This
was not, however, the case among the leaders. Among the
leaders in most countries I seemed to detect a certain tiredness
over nationalistic appeals. It seemed that they went on
preaching them, but no longer believed in them so whole-
heartedly, and were looking out for something new. They
had seen too many examples of western rationalistic methods
in politics, which were based on materialistic philosophies,
'and too many international conferences, both political and
economic, to have much faith in the efficacy of western un-
spiritual rationalism. They seem to be waiting for something
new, and though not clear in their minds as to what it should
be, are conscious that it must be something quite different
150 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
from all methods of the past. What could this new gospel
be? Since the war the West has shown the East three new
doctrines: Communism, Fascism, and Nazism. None of
these seem to have much chance of success in the Near and
Middle East. In the Muslim countries today, no matter how
much the Muslim religion may have weakened, its traditions
are still so much in the blood of the people that no doctrine,
such as Bolshevism, which is
against individualism, the family,
private property, or the law of inheritance, has much chance
of succeeding. Fascism, as you know, is
primarily a system
of social and economic readjustment rather than a philosophy.
It can only be adopted by a country with a highly developed
economic and social life. The whole national existence of
most of the eastern countries is still too young, too primitive,
to provide the necessary understructure on to which the
Fascist fagade could be superimposed. As for Nazism, I
shall not speak about it myself, but will read to you a few
sentences by one of the leading Arab thinkers of our time,
the blind Sheikh Said Shahristani in Baghdad. His words
seemed to sum up what I had heard from many other
people :
"A theory of supremacy of race and blood is
just as
alien to the Arab spirit as is one of idolizing the state to
the disadvantage of the individual. Muhammad made no
difference among the different races and colours. Admira-
tion for Hitler among a few Arabs is
usually confined to
those who do not know the Quran and do not live up to
its
teachings."
What, then, is left for those statesmen who are waiting in
the East for a new gospel? The answer is
provided by what
became the essence of my findings during my journey. For
those spiritual and religious truths in which we gathered here
in this Congress believe, and of which I tried to speak to
those men, seemed to be the very thing for which they were
waiting. I don't mean to imply that all the politicians received
them with open arms. Far from it. But the fact remains
that the majority the overwhelming majority net only
METHODS OF DISSEMINATION I$I
responded' with interest but with genuine enthusiasm to those
ideas.
To prove to you that I was not carried away by my own
enthusiasm, I shall read to you five statements taken at random
from the many conversations I had in the East. I am only
going to deal with men who were really outstanding in their
own countries. The first, from the King of Saudi Arabia,
was also meant as a message to this Congress :
KING IBN SA'UD. "I do not believe that you can rule
a country well without resting upon a religious basis.
You cannot separate political conduct from ethical conduct.
I
myself have always tried to act solely according to the
word of the Prophet, even if this meant a political loss at
the time, but in the long run I always found it was the
religious road that led to a political success."
NAJI BEY AL ASIL (Iraqui Minister of Foreign Affairs).
"In my opinion the whole chaotic state of affairs, especially
in the western world, is due to its
departure from the
essence of religion. Although it is difficult for one or a
few individuals, even if they are ministers, to translate
their highest religious beliefs into reality, they must make
all efforts to act as an example, an ethical and moral example.
A nation as a whole can and must be taught to do it
through
right education."
Dr. KAYALI (Minister of Education and of Justice in
Syria). "In every one of us there is the spiritual urge for
something better than matter. It is the duty of the state
to strengthen that urge in the young through right educa-
tion. In those who are exposed to western thought and
who have turned away from the religion of their fathers,
the religious instinct must be cultivated not within the
framework of any particular denomination, but in the
direction of ethics, in the direction of social service and
selfless collaboration."
AMIR ABDALLAH (of Trans) ordania.) "The necessary
strengthening of the religious spirit can only be effected
by organizing the efforts of all those who believe in the
power of religion. Societies in different countries should
be formed irrespective of the denomination of their
152 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
members; they should collaborate in trying to"strengthen
the religious feeling of the people and, above all, fighting
atheism. Something similar should be done in schools for
the children/*
Professor VARVARESOS (Governor of the Bank of
Greece). "I do not dare to say that I don't believe in
God, but I don't dare to say that there is God. All I know
is that there is a power beyond our comprehension. In
my own little
way I can serve only by trying to lead a life
based on ethics and morals. I don't believe in the churches
as they are today with their dogma and observances. I
want them to be ethical and moral institutions of a practical
kind."
Naturally you will ask now, if the Near and Middle East
are so full of spiritual enthusiasm, why don't they come
forth with a gospel from which the West can learn? The
first answer is that the Middle East at present is
going through
such a stage of transition that it is
quite incapable of producing
a gospel of its own. Secondly, the Near and Middle East
have been for so many years under the influence of the West
that they can hardly be expected suddenly to depart entirely
from that influence. Every aspect of life is based on western
methods; they have taken from us their political systems,
their means of transport, their education, sanitation, even
their amusements and many of their new customs, and it is
not likely that they will suddenly create an entirely new
doctrine of their own. I have little doubt that they are
waiting for the West to produce such a gospel, and when I
say West I mean for a number of reasons Great Britain.
In India it is not at all the same, for the Indians are tired of
westernism both in thought and in politics, since, for them,
westernism is identical with Britain and British rule. But
most of the basic conditions are entirely different in India
and in the Near and Middle East.
I think there is
yet another reason why those men whom
I quoted to you and many others, similarly important men,
do not seem able to translate their better spiritual convictions
METHODS OF DISSEMINATION 153
into their daily actions. It is a more personal but an equally
important reason which also has a bearing on conditions in
the West and probably affects many statesmen in the West.
It is
primarily a feeling of shyness, of self-consciousness.
Very often a minister would say to me at the end of our
conversation: "None of my colleagues must know of what
I told you"; and the next day I would visit one of his
colleagues and be told exactly the same. They were afraid
to make their spiritual convictions known and were hiding
them. Yet the really important thing is that everyone should
know about them. Individual good intentions are all
very
well, but they have no power if they are not co-ordinated
and organized and made real. Only when brought together
and organized properly can the good intentions and spiritual
convictions of men scattered all over the globe produce that
inner spiritual revolution which we here must regard as our
final goal that is to say if we want to be more than a nice
comfortable week-end party with kindly and ineffective in-
tentions. And that is where I believe the Congress of Faiths
has a -mission. Ever since I came back from the East, having
spoken to 185 different responsible men, have I felt that it
is for the Congress of Faiths and for no other organization
to become a clearing-house for the good intentions of bashful
statesmen. I do not mean this as a joke, but am in dead
earnest about it.
But it is not only in the Near and Middle East that people
have those good intentions and yet are unable to translate
them into reality. I do not believe in what is so fashionable
these days to dismiss a politician by saying that he is
only
a hard-boiled cynic. Naturally his good intentions are
probably covered up by a thick crust of cynicism, but if
you scratch long enough and put your finger on the right
spot, you will usually get a response. It may perhaps be the
duty of a Congress of Faiths to do all the necessary scratching
and putting of fingers on tender spots. But if you want to
bring about the spiritual conditions in which our aim
Peace and Fellowship through Religion can be realized,
154 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
you must do it. For I don't think we can achieve much
without the collaboration of those who are responsible for
the affairs of the world.
What are the other methods of dissemination? After my
recent journey I came to the conclusion that at any rate in
the eleven countries of the Near and Middle East, the churches,
which at one time were the noblest guardians of spiritual
truth, could no longer claim to be the sole channels through
which such truth could be translated into activity. Other
bodies, societies, universities, even government departments,
and especially individuals, have taken over those activities.
What does this translation of church activity into social or
communal or civic activity mean? It means that among
those who are undertaking that work, the tendency prevails
to replace the letter of religion by its deed. I think we are
almost entitled to say that in those who have taken upon
themselves to carry the cross which at one time glorified
only the spire of the churches, the word is
becoming flesh.
What once was religion is
becoming social work, ethical
conduct, education. This process is a very general and
significant one, although today we only see its initial
stages.
As for quick and direct results, I believe more than ever
that personal contacts are of paramount importance. We
must try to create individual contacts among ourselves, and
especially with people who are really important in the world
of earthly activities. And once we have established such
contacts, we should go on building them up and extending
what has been suggested while the contacts existed.
We cannot force any statesman in East or West or anybody
else to adopt spiritual methods instead of the usual material-
istic ones, but we can go on awakening their consciousness
until their own conscience and common sense will show them
that spiritual methods are more efficient than rationalistic
ones.
I think that such lines might suggest the direction in which
some of the methods of dissemination might be carried on
by the Congress of Faiths.
METHODS OF DISSEMINATION 155
s
SYNOPSIS OF DISCUSSION
Mr. YUSUF ALI asked the speaker whether he did not think
that the group of eleven countries of which he had spoken
divided themselves into three totally different groups ? And
whether he had intended to suggest that the Congress of
Faiths should definitely change its main objective, which he
had understood to be the bringing together for mutual
fellowship, people of different faiths, and make of it a sort
of spiritual bureau which would say: "We from the West
can come and tell
you how to run your policy." This was
not to imply that religious and ethical problems were not
important in politics, but would the states that had only just
received their independence welcome a society or a congress
or an individual who offered them a gospel which would
revolutionize the whole of their state?
Mr. ROM LANDAU replied that he realized the divisions
between the groups of countries, and had therefore found it
the more remarkable that they should all have responded in
more 'or less the same way.
He had not intended to imply that the Congress Movement
should change its foundations or direction, but had merely
suggested that it might add to its other activities that of
assisting spiritual but bashful statesmen, who do not know
how and when to express their intentions and do not dare
to admit them.
Mr. LEO BAKER endorsed what Mr. Landau had said as to
the need of statesmen for occasional injection with a spiritual
virus. He asked Mr. Landau how far the politicians
and
leaders of the eastern countries were in association with the
real genuine spiritual teachers of the East? Were they
cp-operating with religion or were religion and politics,
as
in Europe, in two separate camps ?
Mr. LANDAU said that this was a very important question,
too complicated to deal with in a few moments, because it
affected the fundamentals of Islamic life. Most of the states-
156 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
men he had met were trying to base themselves on western
ideas, and that westernization had taken them away from
traditional religion; although most of them performed their
traditional religious duties, few seemed to regard religion as
the main inspiration of their lives. This might be accounted
for by the fact that very few of them were familiar with the
reformed Islam. Therefore the eastern situation was very
interesting, because it was so contradictory and so transitory.
The influence of the West had been to turn attention away
from the Prophet, towards the leaders of the West.
AFTAB-UD-DIN (Imam of Woking Mosque) said that he
had listened with much interest to Mr. Landau. It was the
first time he had heard from a Westerner about the message
of the West to the East. As a Muslim he was open to all
messages from any quarter, but he wished to say that all knew
that the present chaos in the world was the creation of the
West. If the East today were following materialistic lines, it
was under the tutorship of the West. As long as anyone
had any materialism in their minds they were unfit to give
any spiritual message. After any achievement in -civilization,
a nation was prone to forget the spiritual basis of that
civilization, and he considered that the West had forgotten
it. Her standards were tinged more or less by materialism.
He questioned whether the western peoples were undergoing
that experience which is known as repentance and remorse?
Had they dived deep into that spiritual cleansing and come
forth with faith and fervour?
Mr. LANDAU entirely agreed with the Imam. He had not
wished to suggest that we could give to the East a new
message, but that our final aim must be an inner spiritual
evolution that must affect everyone who mattered in the
wprld. Naturally only those who had undergone such an
evolution could give such a message.
Dame EDITH LYTTELTON said that if one really longed for
the spiritual basis of life, he did not waste time pushing a
particular form of belief, but went down below the forms to
METHODS OF DISSEMINATION 157
s
that which was common to all races. She asked whether
anyone had had the experience of a real understanding on
spiritual matters with someone of another faith ?
Mrs. DODWELL said that she had a very close friend, an
Indian guru, one who had followed the Path of Initiation
and who taught it to others. She had explained to him the
path she was attempting to follow in the West, the path of
Rudolf Steiner, and he had said with a smile: "It is
the same."
Dame EDITH LYTTELTON (Chairman): "In closing the
discussion I should like to say one word. The fundamental
idea of this Congress is
surely to bring together all these
points of view and get below them to something upon which
we can all
agree. The political aspects are taking us away
from what we are trying to do. We ought to recognize the
spiritual force which lies behind every movement whatever
it be, even if it is
purely national, and realize that which is
fundamentally in common between us. On those lines
interviews such as Mr. Landau has been describing are of
value, because what is
going to save the world is the relation
of the human soul to God."
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS
CONCLUDING SESSION,
Monday Evening^
July 26tk.
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS
Sir FRANK BROWN (Chairman)
You will have noticed from the programme that our
proceedings this evening constitute the last meeting of the
Congress for conference and discussion. The Chair was to
have been taken by Viscount Samuel, but owing to pressure
of important business he has had to leave for London. We
are all most deeply indebted to Lord Samuel, particularly as
he is a very busy public man.
Of course at this last general meeting some reference must
be made to the presence among us all
through the meetings
of the one to whom we owe the idea of the Congress Sir
Francis Younghusband. We have been so delighted to have
him with us, and have felt his presence to be a real help in
the discussions.
I hope it will not be out of place also to thank those
who have been responsible for the arrangements here
Mr. Jackman and his devoted band of helpers. I think
that, looking back on the last few days, we can say that the
work of 1937 has followed well on the work of 1936. We
had a great Congress in London for an entire fortnight last
year, and those of us on the Executive Committee had a great
deal of anxious thought as to what should succeed it. Oxford
has often been called the home of lost causes. We shall none
of us feel, after being inspired by the meetings we have had,
that we have been concerned in a lost cause. We are confident
that there is in the human mind and heart that which cannot
rest purely and only upon a material conception of life, and
that the spiritual side of life must find expression. In spite
of totalitarian states and carelessness about religion, we are
T 161
162 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
confident that we are on the side that must ultimately be
victorious.
I think at this closing meeting we may say that while we
have maintained complete loyalty to our personal beliefs, we
have been in agreement with nearly all that has been said, and
that we have been glad to take council with those of other
faiths and to join with them in putting things on a practical
level so that we may apply in our individual lives the standards
which have found expression during these days. I speak to
you as a Christian believer, and I do so in the knowledge that
there is a cord of duty and of sacrifice which should bind all
those who have the religious outlook. I am reminded of the
declaration of the Hebrew prophet when he was thinking
what sacrifice he could offer to justify himself before his God.
He came to the conclusion that it was not in sacrifices nor in
burnt-offerings, but in a humble and a contrite heart that
his God would be well pleased. It is in that spirit that the
proceedings of the Congress have been carried on, and in that
spirit we shall go forth to work for the promotion of fellow-
ship among all the races of mankind.
Mr. YUSUF ALI (summing up)
I appreciate the honour of standing before you at the last
Session in order to take a rapid glance at the great ideas that
have been placed before us from time to time during the
Congress. Before I do so it would be fitting also to acknow-
ledge our indebtedness to the various people who have made
the Conference such a success. Our Chairman tonight has
mentioned two outstanding personalities to whom we owe
so much: Sir Francis Younghusband and Viscount Samuel.
May I also be permitted to mention the various authorities
who have given us their hospitality?
We were received when we arrived by the Master of Balliol,
Vice-Chancellor Dr. A. D. Lindsay, and the menfolk have
had the hospitality of that splendid college, famed for its
learning. After living there for these few days it is
perhaps
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS 163
not only for its
learning but also for its
hospitality that we
shall remember it. The ladies and those gentlemen who were
accompanied by ladies were received at Somerville, and
Somerville has shown that it can entertain not only Oxford
ladies but ladies from elsewhere, and also men, as those who
dined there on Sunday evening can testify. We would also
thank the. other colleges that have kept their doors open
for us.
Dr. Thomas's hospitality as Head of the Indian Institute
was likewise much appreciated. Those of us who come from
India found ourselves on familiar ground among the exhibits
housed there, and our colleagues in the Conference found
much to interest them. And today we have had the delightful
hospitality of Dr. Major at
Ripon Hall. Then there has been
private hospitality to individual members by delightful hosts
and charming hostesses, all in the Oxford tradition.
Besides all these, I hope it is
permissible to mention the
Sessional Chairmen, the very distinguished persons who have
presided at our Sessions: Professor F. W. Thomas, Sir A.
Ramaswami Mudaliar, Sir Abdul Qadir, Dr. Willard L.
Sperry, and Dame Edith Lyttelton all well-known person-
alities whose presence among us added dignity and knowledge
to our proceedings.
I
hope the various speakers will not mind if I mention them
collectively. I who have attended the whole of the meetings
know that every word that has been said was said in the earnest
spirit
that we were out to encourage, and that they all con-
tributed to that spirit of fellowship and understanding which
it is the chief object of the Congress to promote.
We began with a message from our beloved Chairman,
which set the note of all our proceedings. Sir Francis
Younghusband, in spite of his illness, sent us a message in
which he spoke of joy and gladness. He himself illustrates
that message. We have found joy and gladness in
receiving
the thoughts of others and discussing them. Even when we
disagreed, the criticism has contributed to further understand-
ing. In gathering up the threads and taking with us the
164 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
precious memories of this Congress, we have something to
dwell upon, something joyful to look back upon.
At our very first meeting we had great, instructive, and
fruitful ideas from our Acting Chairman, Viscount Samuel.
He reminded us that the problems of this world cannot be
coped with by pure reason alone; there are emotional stresses
and social difficulties that all
go to make up the complicated
structure not only of the individual but of society. We have
to exorcize egotism and take our stand on the solid platform
of understanding and goodwill.
I call to memory that great, comprehensive, historical
view of comparative religion given by Dr. Robert Hume,
under the title of The Essentials of Religion. In his analysis,
like a chemist, he transformed metals and showed us the basis
of them, the ultimate atom, indispensable and indestructible.
Dr. Alfred Hall, speaking on "The Call for Religion,"
pointed out that after all, the true office of religion is to help
us to express the best in us and to take advantage of every
opportunity we have in life to bring out that best and co-
ordinate it with all the other interests we have, and thus build
up a spiritual life that can lead us ever outwards and upwards.
None of us is ever likely to forget the Youth Symposium.
It is a feature of our times that we call Youth into our councils
so that we may listen to them, because everything that passes
in their minds and hearts is of the utmost interest and im-
portance to us. The future course of events will be influenced
by the rising generation, and if we fail to learn their views
we shall be under the disadvantage of not knowing the forces
that will build the future and also of undoing our work in
their eyes, because they will feel that we do not understand
them.
One spoke to us as a traveller in many lands, and told us
what Youth is
thinking in Canada and America and the
various hopes and fears of post-war youth. Another repre-
sented the Youth Group of the League of Nations Union.
He naturally took an international point of view, and told us
of the reactions of the youth of die nations on each other.
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS 165
We had a young member of the Communist Party who
frankly admitted not having any interest in religion, but yet
who fitted into our scheme because he felt that some great
master-key must be found to guide us through the chaos of
the post-war world. Our young African friend, Prince
Kessie of Ashanti, gave us his view from an entirely different
angle of vision, and showed us that after all, the youth of
all the races, nations, and creeds are thinking along similar
lines, and that they feel that the generation that is
passing
away and the stress of the war has left them a legacy of
responsibility which the coming generation would fail in
their duty if
they did not shoulder and understand.
I
hope that at a later conference we may see a much larger
proportion of young people, so that they may judge us by
what we are trying to do and perhaps also by what we are
trying to undo. The task before us and before them is the
same to construct a better order out of a debris of dis-
appointed hopes and aspirations, a chaos of untried ideals.
May I mention at this point the devotional services held
each
'
day ? one conducted by a Hindu, one by a Muslim, the
service in Christ Church Cathedral as representing the
established Church of England, and the Buddhist service
today. There may be differences of opinion as to whether
people can enter into the devotional spirit
of a religion to
which they do not subscribe, but there can be no doubt
that, given the right atmosphere, we are enabled to enter into
the basic ideas underlying every earnest man's prayer and
longing to reach the spiritual.
At the Public Meeting we had very valuable speeches, the
famous speech of Dr. Maude Royden following that of our
Hindu and Buddhist friends and my own humble plea as the
last, on the "Need of Religion." As our Chairman reminded
'us, it was remarkable that five persons, each belonging to a
different faith, each loyal to his or her own faith, should speak
with a united voice on a common platform, on the needs of
religion in general.
We shall remember the very earnest and eloquent appeal
i<56 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
of my country-woman, Begum Amiruddin. She gave us the
Islamic view of religion, but I have heard it said by many
that this view is not so very different from that held by all
the others. That further opens our eyes to the fact that in
whatever form we express our religious views, if
they are
expressed with true regard to basic and fundamental human
needs, they will tend to converge to a point.
This morning we had the wonderful speech of Professor
Buonaiuti. Even those who could not understand his beautiful
language, saw him bring out his clear Italian accent and
appreciated all the various accompaniments of southern
eloquence that so vividly enforced his meaning. We were
thrilled that even though he spoke to us in a language we
could not understand, we ourselves felt the things he tried
to express, even though we had to be content with the cold
medium of a printed translation.
And lastly, we had our friend Mr. Rom Landau telling us
of his experiences in the Near and Middle East, his new
adventure, the adventure of infusing spirituality into politics.
Was not that a great and varied menu ? It is .wonderful
to think that in this short time we have heard all these things,
and had them placed before us in a way that enables us to
compare one with another and to go away with the conscious-
ness that our coming has not been in vain.
Let me try to sum up some of the great ideas that have
been put before us, like gems that shine with various rays,
like bricks on which we can build up our own religious
conceptions.
Everyone will agree that this is a period of very rapid
world changes, and it is therefore specially necessary that we
should have a beacon or lodestar to steer by. We are
engaged in a quest for this beacon or lodestar so that we
can say to ourselves that whatever flux and change there
may be, there is within us the capacity to look to that star
to light our steps, to search out the beacon to give us
direction.
Throughout the discussions, but especially in the Youth
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS 167
Symposium, war and the post-war unsettlement have been
often mentioned. No one can fail to be moved by the fact
that the war was a tremendous cataclysm in every sphere of
relationships, relationship of men to men, of men to women,
of countries, races, social grades, social, political, and economic
systems, one to another. The new Indian Constitution has
writ large on it the co-operation of India with Great Britain
during the war. However much we may regard that
cataclysm as a catastrophe, the only thing we can do now
is to approach future problems in such a way that we can
realize the solidarity of mankind. It is
very difficult to bring
that about. What are the best means to that end? Some of
the reactions of the post-war settlement seem to lead in the
opposite direction from the one we thought we were travelling
in. But we know that sometimes we have to travel East in
order to go West. And we feel in an assemblage like this
that the greater the danger, the greater is our need for working
for our great ideals.
We find that everything is more or less mixed up in life,
politics with economics, economics with religion, religion with
history, and so on. Look at King Leopold's letter. He wants
a rational organization of world economy in the widest sense,
in which everyone can co-operate and join up and work
whole-heartedly for the ideal of the New Jerusalem, the
City of God in which the citizens rejoice in hope and present
blessings, in which the stranger is received with love and not
with suspicion.
We have noticed the contrast between those who are
impressed with the mysticism of religion as opposed to those
who lean to rationalism, but not one word was said that
could mar the harmony with which our proceedings have
been conducted. It is sincere faith that removes barriers,
the religious spirit that pours a balm when other hopes have
crumbled in the dust.
Professor Buonaiuti expressed our thought when he said
that all we want to do is to keep the air pure for the com-
munity, to bring to bear all the light we can, whether from
168 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
reason, intuition, or mysticism, in order to carry out our
ideals.
A contrast was drawn between the Abstract and Universal
and the Concrete and Individual. Some preferred to tackle
problems in the concrete and deal with the individual; others
said that that was not enough, that we must take mankind
in the mass; that concrete facts and single individuals were
but raw materials for the web and pattern of life; that the
Eternal is the Type or the Archetype, and the single thing
or individual is but ephemeral. The analytical mind discerns
nothing in the community but a collection of individuals,
and looks upon humanity as an abstract term. To the mystic,
any facts or details are matters of no moment except as
pointing to the Whole, the Absolute, and the Universal.
Such are limitations incident on our viewing such problems
from particular points. What we have to do is to realize
Oneness, both from a practical and from a spiritual basic
point of view. We have unity in our individuality; all our
faculties, tasks, and interests make up one complete Per-
sonality. Further, we have to realize our Unity in Humanity;
my neighbour and I, though we seem to be different, have a
Unity through our Creator who is One. Further, we have
to realize the Unity of God's Purpose and Plan : without it
the whole panorama in outer nature and in the world within
us seems disjointed and aimless.
We have to try to understand ourselves and our relation
to Nature and to universal principles, and we have to bend
our spiritual gaze on the Nature of God.
Some believe that religion can only be viewed emotionally.
Mere reason is not enough to move our hearts; we must
suffer and love so that we may share in the suffering of
others; and without those emotions we have merely the
cold philosophy of the mind, which is insufficient. Others
lay stress on Rationality: to them emotion is a dangerous
guide unless checked and controlled by reason. Yet others
hold that if we both understand and have emotional ex-
perience, that is not enough. In religion we must also have
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS 169
that practical exemplification of the principles we preach and
which ultimately shape life.
These few points are perhaps enough to provide us with
material for a broad foundation for religious research, and if
we think over them, and meditate on them, we shall draw
fresh' inspiration from them and shall find that we are indeed
making progress in evolving our spiritual life.
By way of conclusion, let me quote you some beautiful
lines of a celebrated Persian mystic. To give you an idea
of their beautiful lilt and rhythm, I will recite them in Persian
and then give you an English rendering of the words :
Man Tan shudam ;
Tu J5n shudi ;
Man tu shudam ;
Tu man shudi ;
Ta kas na guyad
Ba'd az in,
Man digaram,
Tu digari.
I am the body ;
Thou art the soul ;
I am thou ;
Thou art I ;
Let no one say
Hereafter,
That I am other,
And thou art other.
Or, to take a more practical point of view of how unity
can be achieved even in the face of such of our brethren as
do not want it, an American poet has expressed it in homely
language :
They drew a circle to shut me out
A rebel, a heretic, a thing to flout!
But love was wise and knew how to win;
She drew a circle that took them in.
That brings us to the central point of our gathering. We
want co-operation, unity, understanding, a joy in each other,
faith and confidence in the ultimate goodness of things.
170 THE WORLD S NEED OF RELIGION
SYNOPSIS OF DISCUSSION
Mrs. ST. CLAIR STOBART commented on the delightful
unanimity of the Conference, but thought that through fear
of hurting one another's feelings there had not been a suffi-
ciently clear definition of what religion is.
Religion had been
assumed to be a common characteristic of humanity, involving
belief in God, brotherhood, and sacrifice, but one fundamental
factor for unification had been omitted, namely, the assump-
tion of an after life. It was this assumption which had given
the churches throughout the world their hold over the people.
Assumption alone, however, was not enough. Men today
demanded scientific proof, and it was because the churches
refused to consider the scientific proofs that they were losing
their hold. Dean Inge had said that the moment we were
asked to accept scientific proof for spiritual truth, the alleged
spiritual truth became neither spiritual nor true, but the
speaker believed that although certain spiritual truths could
not be proved, the most fundamental, namely, survival after
death, was susceptible to scientific proof, and that the recall
to religion would not be effective until that proofwas admitted,
and, moreover, that its
acceptance would be the most effective
factor in the unification of races and creeds.
Mrs. BISHOP pointed out that at this year's Congress a
greater emphasis had been placed upon the discussion, and
that the level of the discussions had been much higher than
had been the case last year. This shared and communicative
experience had been one of the inimitable delights of the
Congress, and the speaker hoped that the Movement would
continue to be a Congress of Faiths and not a Congress of
doubt. For this reason she was not persuaded that the
participation of statesmen and people of the world would be
a very great help. They were not always free, whatever
their personal convictions might be, and little might be gained
by bringing in people with high responsibilities and great
names if they could not come whole-heartedly. We needed
to guard against forgetting God. The power of such a work
SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS iyi
came from God and from the angels, a power that was latent
in our minds and could be discovered. It was this power, the
power of the Holy Spirit, that had helped us to clarify our
beliefs and to realize the essentials of religion.
Colonel LUARD said that we could not acquire the spirit of
fellowship at any moment; it was just as much the result of
technique and strenuous training as physical prowess was the
result of physical training. It had been said that the idea of
God was the interpretation of experience. We had words for
the world without, but when we came to describe the world
within we had to adapt those words for the purpose. We
gradually became aware that Creation is still
going on and
that each of us had a part to play in it.
Mrs. HANBURY reminded the audience that in the past the
struggle for truth and equality had often ended disastrously
because man had depended too much on his own mind without
first lifting that mind to be inspired by the author of his being.
She suggested that at future meetings at least two minutes of
silence be allowed at the commencement, so that the power of
God might flow into our minds. By this means it
might be
found that all the deliberations would be lifted to a higher
plane where some realization might be found of the purpose
of God.
Dr. ALFRED HALL quoted a saying of Confucius : "Fisher-
men use baskets to catch fish; when they have caught the fish
they neglect the baskets; teachers use words to convey ideas;
when they have conveyed the ideas they forget the words.
May it be mine to converse with men who forget the words."
That seemed to be the main purpose of our Congress to
arrive at something deeper than words. Only by a fuller
religion should we arrive at unity. Therefore we should
develop our individual religions to the full and then we
should attain the highest mystic experience.
Rev. L. J. BELTON had noticed a cleavage between those
who maintained a rational approach and those who maintained
172 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
a mystical approach. He wondered whether that was not due
to a confusion of terms. Were not both the scientific and the
mystical approaches legitimate? Was the distinction not
rather between the intellectual approach and the intuitional
approach? But the intuitional approach led and must always
lead to something rational because we lived in a rational
Universe.
This Movement was the greatest thing in the speaker's life.
He believed it to be the Great Idea before the world today.
This did not mean that we had to give up our single allegiances,
but it meant that we should all work for its fulfilment. He
hoped that in time its
headquarters might become a clearing-
house for the findings of many similar movements.
Rev. OSWALD YOUNGHUSBAND pointed out that in his
kinsman's book, A Venture of Faith, a certain dissatisfaction
had been expressed with the bishops. Why did not Mr.
Landau or . Mr. Yusuf Ali tackle the bishops ? With the
bishops on our side we should also have the clergymen.
Mr. LEO BAKER said that a material sense gave rise to an
atmosphere of worry and a spiritual sense to an atmosphere
of love. How could these two circles of experience be made
to come together? He had felt that it was particularly in the
morning devotional services that the two circles had drawn
together. Every one of the three services held during the
Congress had mentioned the stages of consciousness through
which man could pass.
Professor Buonaiuti had given the dynamics of religion,
and each had felt moved out of the sphere of mere words into
the sphere of experience. It was this reality of common
experience that all treasured as something of real importance.
It had been an historic moment through which we had passed.
Together all had approached a little nearer to the centre which
4
lies behind all the circles of men's lives. A definite stage in
consciousness had been reached by humanity, and that had
been the great value of the Congress.
APPENDIX
APPENDIX
Passages from the Sacred Scriptures, collected by Dr. R. E. Hume,
to illustrate Address on
"
The Essentials ofReligion" (see p. 29).
Advocacy of Peace and Non-injury ; Condemnation
of Fighting, Killing, and Violent Force
CONFUCIANISM
"Persons without love cannot long dwell in adversity; they can-
not long dwell in prosperity. The loving are at peace in love."
Analects 4. 2.
(Translated from the Chinese for the present writer by Professor Lucius
Porter of Yen Ching University, Peiping, China. Compare Lyall,
Sayings of Confucius, p. 14.)
"All men have a mind which cannot bear to see the sufferings of
others. If men suddenly see a child about to fall into a well, they
will experience a feeling of alarm and distress. Let them have their
complete development; and they will suffice to love and protect
all within the four seas." Mencius 2. i. 6. i. 3. 7.
(Legge, The Chinese Classics, with a Translation, vol. 2.)
"When one subdues men by force, they do not submit to him in
heart, but because their strength is not adequate to resist. When one
subdues men by virtue, they are pleased in their hearts' core, and
submit sincerely." Mencius 2. i. 3. 2.
(Legge, CCWT 2. 196, The Chinese Classics Translated into English,
i. 169-170.)
"There are men who say: 'I am skilful at marshalling troops!'
'I am skilful at conducting a battle!' They are great criminals."
Mencius 7. 2. 4. i.
(Legge, CCWT 2. 2. 2. 479 ; CCTE i. 368.)
TAOISM
"Peace and quietude are esteemed by the wise man. The killing of
men fills multitudes with sorrow; we lament with tears because of
it."
Tao-Teh-King 31. 2. 4.
(Goddard, Look's Tao, and Wu Wei, New York, Brentano, 1919, pp. 26,
27. Compare Legge's Translation in The Sacred Books of the East,
vol. 39, p. 74.)
"Disastrous years follow in the wake of great armies." Tao-
Teh-King 30. 2.
(F. H. Balfour, Taoist Texts, Ethical, Political, and Speculative, p. 19.)
176
176 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
"Arms, however excellent, are unblest implements, detestable to
all beings. Therefore he who possesses the Supreme (Tao) does not
abide them." An original translation from the Chinese.
(Compare R. E. Hume, Treasure-House of the Living Religions, p. 274. Com-
pare also Carus, Laot^s Tao-Teh-King, Chinese-English, pp. 194-195.)
BUDDHISM
"Rise! Sit up! Learn steadfastly for the sake of peace." Sutta
Nipata 331.
(SEE 10. 2. 54.)
"Happy is the devotion of those who are peace." Dhammapada 194.
(SEE 10. i. 53.)
"A bhikku (i.e. a member of the religious Brotherhood) ought not
intentionally to destroy the life of any being." Mahavagga i. 78. 4.
(SEE 13. 235.) Similarly Mahavagga 5. 10. 9 (SEE 17. 30).
"The arhat (i.e. religious person) is incapable of taking life wittingly."
Sandaka Sutta.
(Sacred Books ofthe Buddhists, vol. 5, p. 371, where the documentary reference
for this passage is given as Majjhima Nikaya i. 523.)
"Not for our life would we ever intentionally kill a living being."
Mahavagga 6. 31. 13.
(SEE 17. 117.)
"Friend ! Let not quarrel arise, nor strife nor discord nor dispute."
Mahavagga 4. 16. 6.
(SEE 13. 343.) Similarly Mahavagga 10. 2. 2 (SEE 17. 293). Similarly again
Mahavagga 10. 2. 20 (SEE 17. 306).
"The bhikku (i.e. a member of the religious Brotherhood) must
be able to hear and to make others listen, able to learn, able to bear in
mind, able to discern and to make others discern, skilful to deal with
friends and foes, and no maker of quarrels." Cullavagga 7. 4. 6.
(SEE 20. 261.)
"He lives as a binder together of those who are divided, an encourager
of those who are friends, a peace-maker, a lover of peace, impassioned
for peace, a speaker of words that make for peace/' Tevijja Sutta 2. 5.
(SEE ii. 190.)
ISLAM
"God calleth to the abode of peace." Koran 10. 26.
(Rodwell, The Koran, Translated from the Arabic, p. 277,
"
Everyman's
Library.")
"Cause not disorders in the earth." Koran 2. 10.
(Rodwell 339.)
"(Saith the Lord): 'We have ordained that he who slayeth anyone,
unless it be a person guilty of manslaughter or of spreading disorders
APPENDIX 177
in the land, shall be as though he had slain all mankind ; but that he who
saveth a life, shall be as though he had saved all mankind alive.'"
Koran 5. 35.
(Rodwell 489.)
"If two bodies of the faithful are at war, then make ye peace between
them.".' Koran 49. 9.
(Rodwell 469.)
"Make peace between them with equity; and act with justice; for,
God loveth those who act justly." Koran 49. 9 continued.
(Sale's translation ; various editions.)
CHRISTIANITY
"From whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they
not hence even of your lusts ! Ye lust, and have not. Ye kill, and
desire to have, and cannot* obtain. Ye fight, and war. Yet ye have
not. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Draw nigh to God; and
He will draw nigh -'to you. Cleanse your hands. And purify your
hearts. Humble yourselves in the sight of God. And He shall lift
you up." James 4. i. 2. 7. 8. 10.
(Authorized, or King James, Version, from which translation the subsequent
passages are quoted, except such as are indicated otherwise.)
"All they who take the sword shall perish with the sword."
Matthew 26. 52. Similarly Revelation 13. 10.
"Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not covet.
Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." Romans 13. 9. Similarly
Matthew 19. 19.
"Blessed are the peace-makers; for, they shall be called the children
of God." Matthew 5. 9.
"Be at peace with all men, if possible so far as that depends on
you." Romans 12. 18.
(Moffatt's translation.)
"He who would love life, and enjoy good days let him keep his
tongue from evil, and his lips from speaking guile. Let him shun wrong,
and do right. Let him seek peace, and make peace his aim."
i Peter 3. 10-11.
(Moffatt's translation.)
The Principle of the "Golden Rule"
CONFUCIANISM
"Is there any one word which could be adopted as a life-long rule
of conduct? Is not sympathy the word! Do not do to others what
you would not like yourself." Analects 15. 23.
(Soothill, Analects of Confucius, pp. 747, 749. Compare Legge, CCWT i. 701
and CCTE i. 226.)
M
178 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
"Surely you would not make a bower into a battlefield, nor a shrine
of prayer into a scene of warfare! Have nothing which is obstructive
of virtue. Seek not to vanquish others in cunning, in plotting, in war.
If I slay a whole nation and annex the territory in order to find nourish-
ment, wherein does the victory lie?" Kwang Tze 24. 2.
(H. A. Giles, Chuang T%u, Mystic, Moralist, and Reformer, p. 315. Compare
Legge's translation in SEE 40. 95.)
"The tender and yielding conquer the rigid and strong. To compel
by show offeree is no gain to a nation." Tao-Teh-King 36. 2. 3.
(Goddard, LT 29.) Similarly Tao-Teh-King 78. i (Goddard, LT 51).
TAOISM
"Pity the misfortunes of others. Rejoice in the well-being of others.
Help them who are in want. Save men in danger. Rejoice at the
success of others; and sympathize with their reverses, even as though
you were in their place." Tai-Shang Kan-Ying Pien, characters
196-228.
(R. K. Douglas, Confucianism and Taouism, p. 259. Compare Legge's trans-
lation in SBE 40. 237; Suzuki and Carus, Tai-Shang Kan-Ying Pien,
pp. 17, 19, 53 ; Balfour, Taoist Texts, 103 ; Wieger, Moral Tenets and
Customs in China', 247.)
HINDUISM
"Do naught to others which, if done to thee, would cause thee pain."
Mahabharata 5. 39. 72-73, Udyoga Parvan.
(Monier-Williams, Indian Wisdom, p. 446, where the reference number for
this passage is according to another method of verse-enumeration of the
Mahabharata, namely, 5. 1517. Compare also four other translations of
the passage: Dutt 5. 63-64; Roy 5. 126; E. W. Hopkins, Religions of
India, p. 479 ; John Muir, Metrical Translations from Sanskrit Writers,
p. 273.)
"
One should never do to another that which one regards as injurious
to one's own self. This, in brief, is the rule of righteousness."
Mahabharata 13. 113. 8, Shanti Parvan.
(Roy ii. 558. Compare Dutt 13. 250; Muir, MTSW 273.)
"This is the high religion which men of wisdom applaud: The life-
breaths of other creatures are as dear to them as those of one's own
self." Mahabharata 13. 115. 21, Anushasana Parvan.
(Roy n. 562. Compare Dutt 13. 252.)
"Men gifted with intelligence and purified souls should always treat
others as they themselves wish to be treated." Mahabharata 13. 115. 22,
Anushasana Parvan.
(Dutt 13. 252. Compare Roy n. 562.)
"Act in such a way that there may be peace." Mahabharata 5. 78. 6,
Udyoga Parvan.
(M. N. Dutt, Mahabharata, vol. 5, p. 117. Compare P. C. Roy's translation,
Mahabharata, voL 5, part 2, p. 246, where the reference number for this
passage is Mahabharata 5. 77.)
APPENDIX 179
"Do them assure them, and establish peace for all." Mahabharata
13. 1 66. 12, Anushasana Parvan.
(Roy n. 773 and also Dutt's translation 13. 347.)
"One should abstain from all acts that are fraught with injury or
malice. Whether in need of food and of the necessaries of life, or
transcending such need, one should be of virtuous disposition, and
abstain totally from inflicting any kind of injury." Mahabharata
12. 295. 24. 30, Shanti Parvan.
(Roy 10. 543. Compare Dutt's translation 12. 455.)
"One should never desire to extend one's own life by* taking the
lives of others." Mahabharata 12. 298. 9, Shanti Parvan.
(Roy 10. 554. Compare Dutt's translation 12. 459.)
"Abstention from injury to all creatures in thought, word, and deed,
kindness and gift are the permanent duties of the good." Mahabharata
12. 162. >2i, Shanti Parvan.
(Dutt 12. 241. Compare Roy's translation 9. 526.) Similarly Mahabharata
12. 278. 4-5 (Dutt 12. 418).
"All acts that are done without injuring any creature become service-
able to the doer both here and hereafter. Those acts that involve injury
to others, destroy faith; and faith being destroyed, involves the destroyer
in ruin." Mahabharata 12. 264. 6, Shanti Parvan.
(Roy, 10. 370. Compare Dutt's translation 12. 394.)
"
He attains to endless happiness who desires not to cause the sufferings
or bonds or "death to living beings, but desires the good of all." Laws
of Manu 5. 46.
(An original translation from the Sanskrit. Compare Buehler's translation in
SEE 25. 167.)
"When one cultivates to the utmost the principles of his nature,
and exercises them on the principle of reciprocity, he is not far from
the path. What you do not like when done to yourself, do not do to
others." Doctrine of the Mean 13. 3.
(Legge, CCWT i. 394 ; Legge, CCTE i. 226.) This passage occurs also at
Li Ki 28. i. 32 (SBE 28. 305).
"Do not do to others what you would not like yourself."
Analects 12. 2.
(Soothill 561.)
"What I do not wish others to do to me, that also I wish not to do
to them." Analects 5. n.
(Soothill 261, 263.)
BUDDHISM
"(Thinking) 'As I am, so are these; as these are, so am I,' identifying
himself with others, let him not kill, nor cause anyone to kill."
Sutta Nipata 705.
(SBE 10. 2. 126-167.) Similarly Sutta Nipata 629 (SBE 10. 2, 112-113).
180 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
"All men fear death. All men love life. Remember that thou art
like unto them. And do not kill, nor cause slaughter." Dhammapada
129-130.
(SEE 10. i. 36.)
"Is there a deed thou dost wish to do? Then bethink thee thus:
'Is this, deed conducive to my own harm, or to other's harm, or to that
of both? Then this is a bad deed, entailing suffering.' Such a deed
thou surely must not do." Ambalatthika-Rahul-Ovada Sutta.
(Mrs. C. F. Rhys Davids, Buddhism, A Study of the Buddhist Norm, a volume
in the
"
Home University Library of Modern Knowledge," no date,
p. 125, where the documentary reference for this passage is Majjhima
Nikaya i. 415. Compare the translation of the passage by Lord Chalmers
in Sacred Books ofthe Buddhists, vol. 5, p. 299.)
CHRISTIANITY
"All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye
even so to them; for, this is the law and the prophets." Matthew 7. 12.
"Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." Matthew 19. 19;
Matthew 22. 39; Mark 12. 31; Luke 10. 27; Romans 13. 9; Galatians
5. 14; James 2. 8 altogether seven times in the New Testament.
"As ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them
likewise." Luke 6. 31,
Positive Means in the Attaining of Peace
CONFUCIANISM
"The moral man is able to make the people good. The moral man,
by living a life of simple truth and earnestness, alone can help to bring
peace and order in the world." Doctrine of the Mean 33. 4, 5.
(Ku Hung-Ming, Conduct of Life, p. 59. Compare the translation by Legge,
CCWT i. 432-433 and CCTE i. 319.) The passage occurs also at Li Ki
28. 2. 65. 66 ; translated by Legge (SBE 28. 329).
"Seek to be in harmony with all your neighbours. Live in amity
with your brethren. Tranquillize, and help, the lower people."
Shu King 5. 17. 2.
(SBE 3. 212. 213. Compare Legge, CCWT 3. 2, 490, where the documentary
reference for this passage is Shu King 5. 17. 6.)
"They (Le. the men of wisdom), wishing to be sincere in their
thoughts, first extended their knowledge to the utmost. Such extension
of knowledge lay in the investigation of things. Things being
investigated, their knowledge became complete.
"Their knowledge being complete, their thoughts were sincere.
"Their thoughts being sincere, their hearts were then rectified.
"Their hearts being rectified, their persons were cultivated.
"Their persons being cultivated, their families were regulated.
"Their families being regulated, their States were rightly governed.
"Their States being rightly governed, the whole Empire was made
tranquil and happy." Great Learning, Text 4, 5.
(Legge, CCWT 358-359 ; CCTE i. 266.) This passage occurs also at Li Ki
39. 2-4. (SBE 28. 411-412.)
APPENDIX l8l
TAOISM
"Since he, the holy man, does not quarrel, therefore no one in the
world can quarrel with him." Tao-Teh-King 22. 2.
(Carus, Canon of Reason and Virtue, 88.) Similarly Tao-Teh-King 66. 4.
(Carus, CRV 121.)
"Requite hatred with goodness." Tao-Teh-King 63. i.
(Garus, Laottfs Tao-Teh-King, Chinese-English, p. 129.)
"To those who are good to me, I am good. And to those who are
not good to me, I am also good. Thus all get to be good.
"To those who are sincere with me, I am sincere. And to those
who are not sincere, I am also sincere. Thus all
get to be sincere."
Tao-Teh-King 49. 2.
(SBE 39. 91.)
"
He is a just man who regards all parts from the point of view of
the whole." Kwang Tze 25. 10.
(H. A. Giles, CTMMR 347. Compare Legge's translation, SBE 40. 126.)
"He taught universal love and beneficence towards one's fellow-men
without contentions, without censure of others." Kwang Tze 24. 12.
(H. A. Giles, CTMMR 329. Compare Legge's translation, 40. 108.)
"Turn toward all creatures with a compassionate heart.
"Be faithful, filial, friendly, and brotherly. First rectify thyself;
and then convert others. Take pity on orphans. Assist widows.
Respect the old. Be kind to children. Show endurance in humiliation ;
and bear no grudge. Extend your help without seeking reward. Give
to others ; and do not regret or begrudge your liberality.
"Those who are thus, are good; people honour them. Heaven's
reason gives them grace. Blessings and abundance follow them. What-
ever they undertake will surely succeed." Tai-Shang Kan-Ying Pien,
characters 148-246. ,
(Suzuki and Carus, TSKYP 52. 53. 54. Compare SBE 40. 237.)
HINDUISM
"May all the regions be without a foe for me! We hate thee not.
May we have peace and safety!" Atharva Veda 19. 14.
(R. T. H. Griffith, Hymns of the Atharva-Veda, Translated, 2. 274.)
"Where there is intelligence, there is forbearance. Therefore follow
counsels of peace." Mahabharata 2. 73. 5, Sabha Parvan.
(Roy 2. 195. Compare Dutt 2. 97.)
"If there were not amongst mankind persons equal to the earth in
forgiveness, there. would be no peace amongst them." Mahabharata
3. 29. 25, Vana Parvan.
(Dutt 3. 42. Compare Roy 3. 83.)
"Those self-controlled truth-seers attain the supreme peaceful libera-
tion whose impurities are removed, whose doubts are resolved, and
who delight in the good of all beings." Bhagavad Gita 5. 25.
(An original translation from the Sanskrit. Compare the translation by Davies
71, and by Telang, SBE 8. 66.)
1 82 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
"Thou shouldst perform acts looking to the universal good.'*
Bhagavad Gita 3. 20.
(Telang, Bhagavad Gita, Translated into English Blank Verse, 22. Compare
E. J. Thomas, Song ofthe Lord, Bhagavad Gita, 24.) Similarly Bhagavad
Gita 12. 4. (Davies 131.)
"The wise should work desiring to promote the general good."
Bhagavad Gita 3. 25.
(Davies 51.)
"By nature we are merciful, reluctant to give pain to anyone. We
desire your well-being, as well as of others even as we wish the good
of ourselves." Mahabharata 12. 82. 6, Shanti Parvan.
(Dutt 12. 123. Compare Roy 9. 267.)
"This is the utmost limit of usefulness of their fellows that every-
one should sacrifice his own life, wealth and thought and word; and
do always what is beneficial to others." Bhagavata Purana 10. 22. 35.
(S. Subba Rau, Srimad Bhagavatam, Translated, 2. 2. 113. Compare the
translation by Dutt, Prose English Translation of Srimad Bhagavatam,
10. 107.)
"Ever seek to promote the good of others; and do evil to none;
for, the best riches are universal benevolence." Vishnu Purana 3. 8.
(H. H. Wilson, Vishnu Purana, Translated from the Original Sanskrit, the
six-volume edition of 1864-1877, vol. 3, p. 86. Compare the translation
by Dutt 3. 86.)
"God is most pleased with him who does good to others; who never
utters abuse, calumny or untruth; who never covets another's wife
or another's wealth; who bears ill-will towards none; who is always
desirous of the welfare of all creatures." Vishnu Purana 3/8. 13-15. 17.
(H. H. Wilson 3. 85, with
"
God "
in place of the Sanskrit designation for the
Deity
"
Kesava." Compare Dutt 191. 192.)
BUDDHISM
"A truth-finder, laying aside cudgel and sword, lives a life of innocence
and mercy, full of kindliness and compassion for everything that lives.
He heals divisions, and cements friendship ; seeking peace, and ensuing
it; for, in peace is his delight, and his words are ever the words of a
peace-maker." Culla-Hatthi-Padopama Sutta.
(Sacred Books of the Buddhists, vol. 5, pp. 128. 129, where the documentary
reference for this passage is Majjhima Nikaya i. 179.)
"Cultivating an unbounded friendly mind, continually strenuous
night and day, he will spread infinite goodness through all regions."
Sutta Nipata 507.
(Sacred Books ofthe East, vol. 10, part 2, p. 83.)
"The noble disciple, freed from covetousness, abides suffusing the,
whole world with heart possessed of kindliness, wide-spreading, grown
great and boundless, free from enmity, and peaceful." Samyutta
Nikaya 42. 8. 13. 4. 2.
(Pali Text Society, Book of the Kindred Sayings, Samutta-Nikaya, vol. 4,
pp. 253-254, with the word "
noble
"
in place of the technical Pali
designation
"
Ariyan.")
APPENDIX 183
"Lord ! I give up my own will, and live according to the will of these
venerable brethren. Our bodies, Lord, are different; but our minds,
I think, have become one. In this way, Lord, do we live in unity and
concord, without quarrels, looking at each other with friendly eyes.
Certainly, Lord, do we live in earnestness, zeal, and resolvedness."
"May every living thing, feeble or strong, omitting none, seen or
unseen, dwelling near or far, whether they be born, or yet unborn:
may every living thing be full of bliss!" Sutta Nipata 145. 146.
(F. L. ^foodward, Some Sayings of the Buddha according to the Pali Canon,
p. 65. Compare SEE 10. 2. 25.)
ISLAM
"
Overcome evil with good." Koran 13. 22.
(Pickthall, The Glorious Koran, An Explanatory Translation^ 251.)
"Turn aside evil with that which is better." Koran 23. 98.
(Rodwell, Koran, 149.)
"
Turn away evil by what is better. And lo ! he between whom and
thyself was enmity shall be as though he were a warm friend. But
none attain to this save men steadfast in patience." Koran 41. 34-35.
(Rodwell, Koran, 194-195.)
"O ye who believe! Carefully avoid suspicion. Verily, some
suspicion is a sin. And do not play the spy, nor backbite each other."
Koran 49. 12.
(SEE 9. 240.)
"The believers, men and women, are protecting friends one of
another." Koran 9. 72.
(Pickthall, Glorious Koran, 200, where the documentary reference for this
passage is Koran 9. 71.)
"Verily, God enjoineth justice and the doing of good and gifts to
kindred. And He forbiddeth wickedness and wrong and oppression.
He warneth you, that haply ye may be mindful. Verily, God hath
knowledge of what ye do." Koran 16. 92. 93.
(Rodwell, Koran 207.)
CHRISTIANITY
"Let us eagerly pursue the things that make for peace and the up-
building of each other." Romans 14. 19.
(Helen B. Montgomery, Centenary Translation of the New Testament, p. 430.)
"Walk worthily of the vocation wherein ye are called, with all
lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, forbearing one another in
love, endeavouring to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace."
Ephesians 4. i. 2. 3.
"The fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make
peace." James 3. 18.
(W. G. Ballantyne, The Riverside New Testament, A Translation from the
Original Greek into the English of To-day, p. 390.)
184 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
"Follow after peace with all men arix} holiness, without which no one
shall see the Lord."
(Ballantine, RNT 383-384.)
."Let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye were
called in one body; and be ye thankful." Colossians 3. 15.
God Involved in the Attaining of Pe^ce
CONFUCIANISM
"The Most High God looked down on earth. His people's peace
He sought." Shi King 3. i. 7. i.
(William Jennings, The Shift King, The Old Poetry Classic of the Chinese,
p. 286. Compare Legge, CCWT 4. 2. 448.)
"God leads men to tranquil security." Shu King 5. 14. 2.
(SEE 3. 197. Compare Legge, CCWT 3. 2. 455.)
"Thy statutes, O Great King, I
keep, I love;
So on the realm to bring peace from above.
Night and day do not I revere Great Heaven,
That thus- Its favour may be given !"
Shi King 4. i. i. 7. 2. 4.
(Legge, Chinese Classics Translated into English, vol. 3 ; She King, or The
Book ofAncient Poetry, Translated into English Verse, p. 354.)
"Heaven, to protect the inferior people, made for them rulers, and
made for them instructors, that they might be .able to be aiding to God,
and secure the tranquillity of the four quarters of the empire." Shu
King 5. i. i. 7.
(Legge, CCWT 3. 2. 286. Compare SEE 3. 126.)
TAOISM
"The whole world will flock to him who holds the mighty form of
Tao (The Supreme). They will come, and receive no hurt, but find
rest, peace, and tranquillity." Tao-Teh-King 35.1.
(Lionel Giles, The Sayings of Lao T^u, Translated from the Chinese, a volume
in
"
The Wisdom of the East
"
Series, p. 21. Compare Goddard,
Laot^us Tao, p. 28.)
"The good commander is not imperious. The good fighter is not
wrathful. The greatest conqueror does not wage war. This is the
imitation of Heaven." Tao-Teh-King 68. i. 2.
(W. G. Old, The Simple Way, Laot^e, A New Translation of the Tao-Teh-
King, 1904 edition, p. 152. Compare SEE 39. in; Cams, CRV 122-
123 ; Goddard, Laotyfs Tao, p. 28.)
"He who serves in harmony with the Tao (The Supreme) will not
subdue the empire by force of arms; such a course is wont to bring
retribution in its train." Tao-Teh-King 30. i.
(Lionel Giles, SLT 41. Compare SEE 39. 72.)
APPENDIX 185
"The true sage, when in obscurity, causes those around him to forget
their poverty. When in power, he causes princes to forget their ranks
and emoluments, and to become as though of low estate. He rejoices
exceedingly in all creation. He exults to see Tao (The Supreme)
diffused among his fellow-men, while suffering no loss himself. Although
silent, he can instil peace, and by his mere presence cause men to be to
each other as father and son. He makes God his guide; and men
make" him theirs." Kwang Tze 25. i.
(H. A. Giles, CTMMR 336-337. Compare SBE 40. 115.)
"They [that is, true religionists] proceed to be the people of God.
If men revere them, they rejoice not. If men insult them, they are not
angered. But only those are capable of this who have passed into the
eternal harmony of God." Kwang Tze 23. 12.
(H. A. Giles, CTMMR 309-310. Compare SBE 40. 89.)
HINDUISM
"Him Who is the Constant among the inconstant, the Intelligent
among the intelligencies, the One among the many, Who grants desires
the wise, who perceive Him as standing in oneself, they and no
others have eternal peace." Katha Upanishad 5. 13.
(An original translation from the Sanskrit. Compare R. E. Hume, The
Thirteen Principal Upanishads, 357-358.)
"
The Overlord, on Whom the worlds do rest in the midst of con-
fusion, the Creator of all, of manifold forms, the One Embracer of the
Universe by knowing Him as kindly, one attains peace for ever."
Svetasvatara Upanishad 4. 13. 14.
(An original translation from the Sanskrit. Compare Hume, TPU 404.)
"The [Divine] One, Who rules over every single source, in Whom
this whole world comes together, the Lord, the Blessing-giver, God
Adorable by revering Him, one goes for ever to this peace."
Svetasvatara Upanishad 4. n.
(An original translation from the Sanskrit. Compare Hume, TPU 404.)
"(Saith the Lord): 'I am the same toward all that live. I have no
foe, no favourite. Whoe'er devoutly worships ME they are in ME,
and I in them. Who worships ME devotedly, however sinful he may be
he is to be accounted good, because he is of right resolve. Soon he
becomes a pious soul, and cometh to eternal peace.'
"
Bhagavad Gita
9. 29. 30. 31.
(An original translation from the Sanskrit. Compare R. E. Hume, Treasure-
House of the Living Religions, p. 270.)
"Righteous men are generally distressed by the distresses of mankind.
That, verily, is the supreme worship of the Person Who is the Universal
Spirit." Bhagavata Purana 8. 7. 44.
(An original translation from the Sanskrit, with
"
righteous men "
to represent
the Sanskrit word
"
sadhu." Compare John Muir, Metrical Translations
from Sanskrit Writers, p. 275 ; S. Subba Rau, Srimad Bhagavatam,
1 86 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
ISLAM
"The word for the Merciful Lord is 'Peace' (Salam)." Koran 36. 58.
(Pickthall, Glorious Koran, 453.)
"He is God, Who knows the unseen and the visible. He is the
Merciful, the Compassionate, the King, the Holy, the Peace-giver."
Koran 59. 22. 23.
(SEE 9. 227.)
"God is your Lord and our Lord. Let there be no strife between
us. God will make us all one. And to Him shall we return."
Koran 42. 14.
(Rodwell 272.)
"God will heal the bosoms of a people who believe, and will take
away the wrath of their hearts." Koran 9. 14-15.
(Rodwell 472.)
"Whatever the subject of your disputes, its decision doth rest with
God." Koran 42. 8.
(Rodwell 371.)
"God will guide to paths of peace him who shall follow after His
good pleasure, and will bring them out of the darkness to the light.
And to the straight path will He guide them." Koran 5. 18.
(Rodwell 487-488.)
CHRISTIANITY
"Be fully equipped. Take courage. Be of one mind. Live in peace.
Then the God of love and peace will be with you." 2 Corinthians 13. 1 1.
(W. G. Ballantine, RNT 315.)
"The peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep
your hearts and minds." Philippians 4. 7.
"May the God of peace Himself give you peace at all times and in
every way." 2 Thessalonians 3. 16.
(H. B. Montgomery, CTNT 560.)
"Now the God of peace make you perfect in every good work to
do His will, working in you that which is well-pleasing in His sight."
Hebrews 13. 20-21.
(Some of the foregoing selections, together with many more, may be
found in R. E. Hume, Treasure-House of the Living Religions, Charles
Scribner's Sons, Publishers, New York and London.)
INDEX
Abdallah, Amir, 151
Acaranga Sutra, 35-8
Ahmad, Aftab-ud-din-, 139
All, A. Yusuf, 87-92, 155, 162-9
Amiruddin, Begum Sultan Mir, 24-5, 95,
97-in, 138
Asil, Naji Bey Al, 151
Asoka, King, 40
Atma, 48-9
Bahai Bureau, International, 47
BahaVllah, 47
Baker, Leo, 23, 25, 155, 172
Belton, Rev. L. J., m-2, 171
Bergson, Henri, 122, 127, 137
Birkett, Prof., 117
Bishop, Mrs., 47, 170
Bounnet, Dr., 67
Brahma, 42
Brahman, 40, 48
Brown, Sir Frank, 161-2
Browne, Sir Thomas, 1 5
Brunner, Emil, 13
Buddha, Gautama, 8, 34, 39-43, 49, 81-3,
137
Buddhism, 31, 39-43? 48-9, 86
Buddhism in Translations (Warren), 42
Buddhist Mission, World, 7-8
Bullock, Mrs., 112
Buonaiuti, Prof., 117-41, 147
Burma, 7-8
Calvinism, 19
Canada, 57-8
Canterbury, Archbp. of, 8-9
Carlyle, Thomas, 9-10
Carpenter, J. E., 40
Carrit, Gabriel, 60-2
Carter, Vivien, 24
Caste-system, Indian, 39-40
China, 41, 60, 63
Christianity, 66, 126, 130-2, 134-5, 136
Columbus, Christopher, 6
Communism, in, 113, 150, 165
Conference on Church Community and
State (Oxford, July 1937), 24
Confucius, 171
Cook, Brian, 55-60
Dank, Mrs., 48, 113
Darwin, Charles, 18
Davids, Mrs. Rhys, 48-9, 137
Decline ofthe West (Spengler), 5, 105
Dharma, 49
Diogenes, 69
Disarmament Conference, 58
Dodwell, Mrs., 24, 112, 157
Eddington, Prof., 88
Edib, Mme Halidi, 95
Ethical Culture Society, 33
Evans, R. C. T., 70
Evolution Crdatrice, 127
Faraday, Michael, 18
Fascism, 86, 150
Forgiveness, doctrine of, 21
French Revolution, 67-8
Gandhi, 68-9
Gavernitz, Dr. S., 70
Germany, 60, 62-4, 67
Gollan, John, 60, 62-5
Gorky, Maxim, 76
Gosvami, Pandit A. B., 77-80, 113
Hall, Dr. Alfred, 8-25, 137, 164, 171
Hanbury, Mrs., 171
Heard, Gerald, 12, 25
Hebrews, Gospel according to the, 23
Hillel, Rabbi, 14
Hinayana Branch of Buddhism, 41
Hindusim, 41, 78, 80
Hitler, 86, 150
Humanism, 25
Hume, Prof. Robert E., 29-47, 50-1, 76,
85-6, 164
187
i88 THE WORLD'S NEED OF RELIGION
Ibn Sa'ud, King, 151
Ikhwan-us-Safa, 88
India, 24, 39, 68-9
Indra, 42
Inge, Dr., 67-8, 170
Internationalism, 6, 15, 97
International Youth Secretariat, 62
Isaiah, 23
Italy, 14-15, 60, 63
Jackman, Arthur, 50, 161
Jacobi, Prof., 35
Jainism, 31, 34-9, 42-3, 48, 86
James, Wm., 43
Japan, 41, 60, 63
Jeans, Sir James, 88, 98
Jeremiah, 23
Jesus, 10, 23, 78-9, 87, 131, 136
Jews, Persecution of, 61, 64
John the Baptist, 23
Jones, Sir Henry, 10
Judaism, 16, 35
Kant, Immanuel, 1 1
Karma, 21
Kayali, Dr., 151
Kellogg Pact, 58
Kelvin, Lord, 10, 18
Kepler, 18
Kessie of Ashanti, Prince, 65-9
Kolisko, Dr., 49
Krishna, 81
Landau, Rom, 136, 145-57
Lao Tse, 145
Laski, Prof. 68
League of Nations, 58, 60, 62-3, 77, 100,
164
Lenin, 86
Leopold, King of the Belgians, 49, 77, 92
Lindsay, Dr. A. D., 162
Luard, Col., 171
Lyttelton, Dame Edith, 145-7, 156-7
Mahavamsa or Great Chronicle of Cey-
lon, 40
Mahavira, 34-9
Mahayana Branch of Buddhism, 41
Mahinda, 40
Major, Dr., 163
Martineau, James, 18
Mass, the, 21
Maude, Aylmer, 24, 70, 113, 138
Maung, Maung Aye, 7-8, 81-4
Mitchison, Naomi, 70-1
Montgomery, Mrs., 139
Moore, J. H., 42
Moses, 23
Mudaliar, Sir A. Ramaswami, 55, 71
Muhammad, 102-3
Muhammadanism, 95-6, 102-5, 109-10,
MO
Miiller, Max, 14
Mussolini, 86
Nationalism, 6, 25, 59, 63
Nazis, the, 67, 86
Nazism, 150
Netherlands, 14
Newton, Sir Isaac, 18, 88
Nietzsche, 117
Pali Text Society, 48
Patriotism, 6
Payne, F. J., 137
Philosophy ofReligion, 13
Place of Christianity among the Religions
ofthe World, 40
Psychology, n
Qadir, Sir Abdul, 50, 95-7
Racial superiority, 67-8
Religio, 141
Rig-Veda, 35
Roman Catholic Church, 21, 126, 136
Roman Catholic Modernist Movement,
117
Royden, Dr. Maude, 84-7
Russia, 7,86-7, 107, in, 113
Sacred Books ofthe East, 35-6
St. Anselm, 126
St. Benedict, 21
St. Paul, 131
Samuel, Visct., 1-2, 5-7, 75-7, 92, 161-2,
164
Sanskrit Scriptures, 36
Sassoon, Siegfried, 6
Sat-Gurus, 80
Sayings of'Buddha, 42
Schleiermacher, 133
Secret Lore ofIndia, 13
Shahristani, Sheikh Said, 150
INDEX
Soderblom, Archbishop, 91
Sources of Civilisation, 25
Spain, 60, 63
Spencer, Herbert, 118, 120
Spengler, Oswald, 5, 104-5
Sperry, Willard L., 117-8,
Steiner,; Rudolf, 157
Stobart, Mrs. St. Glair, 170
Teape, Rev. W. M., 13
Thirteen Principal Upanishads, 29
Thomas, Prof. F. W., 29-30, 163
Tolstoy, 24
Treasute-House of Living Religions, 29
"
Tri-Pitaka," Buddhism's, 39
Tyrell, George, 117-8
Upanishads, 34, 36> 48, 137
Varieties ofReligious Experience, 43
Varvaresos, Prof., 152
Wallas, Graham, 9
War, failure of, 25
War, menace of, 60- 1, 69-70
Watts, Alan, 49, 69-70
Wesleys, the, 19
VPUl to Believe, &
Woodworth, Dr., 67
World War, 5, 19, 21, 56-7, 82, 100
World Youth Congress, 61
World's Living Religion, 43
Yajnavakya, 137
Younghusband, Sir Francis, i, 5, 13, 29,
91-2, 97, 148, 161-3
Younghusband, Rev. Oswald, 172
Zarathustra, 123-4, 134
