{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__tuckett___evidence_for_the_supernatural.pdf","mytitle":"Evidence For The Supernatural","mylang":"de"}
iv The Thinker's L ibra ry, N o.
THE EVIDENCE FC® THE
- SUPERNATURAL
« U N C O M M O N SENSE”
l l i l l l
v
:kw:>
U
:
^'LVvV:
,<
,
BY
lilllliRI
l i i i i ® !
F
irstP
u
b
lish
edinth
eT
h
in
k
er'sL
ib
ra
ry,1932
S
eco
n
dIm
p
ression
, N
o
v
em
b
er 1935
T
h
irdIm
p
ression
, 1937
LIST OF VOLUMES PUBLISHED IN THIS SERIES
E
a
chb
o
u
n
dincloth
ette, is n
et.
. First and Last Things. By H. G. Wells.
. Education. By Herbert Spencer.
. The Riddle of the Universe. By Ernst Haeckel.
. Humanity’s Gain from Unbelief. By Charles Bkadlaugh.
. On Liberty. By John Stuart Mill.
A Short History of the World. By H. G. V ells.
Autobiography of Charles Darwin. , ,
i. The Origin of Species. By Charles Darwin. (6th Copyright edition.)
1
. Twelve Years in a Monastery. By Joseph McCabe.
>
. History of Modem Philosophy. By A. W. Benn.
. Gibbon on Christianity. Being Chapters XV and XVI of Edward Gibbon s
D
eclin
eand Fall of the Roman Empire.
>
, The Descentof Man. Pt. I and concluding Chapter Pt. III. By Charles Darwin.
[. History of Civilization in England. By H. T. Buckle. VoI. I.
l & 15. Anthropology. By Sir Edward B. I ylor. Two vols.
5
, Iphigenia. Two plays by Euripides. English version by C. B. Bonner, M.A.
7, Lectures and Essays. By Thomas Henry Huxley.
). The Evolution of the Idea of God. By Grant Allen.
). An Agnostic’s Apology. By Sir Leslie Stephen X.C.B.
>. The Churches and Modem Thought. By Vivian Phelips.
e
. Penguin Island. By Anatole France.
j. The Pathetic Fallacy. By Llewelyn Powys.
5. Historical Trials (a Selection). By Sir John M a c d o n e l l .
L A Short History o! Christianity. By John M. Robertson.
5. The Martyrdom of Man. By Winwogd Reade.
5. Head Hunters; Black, White, and Brown. By A. C. Haddon.
7. The Evidence for the Supernatural. By Ivor Ll. Tuckett. ,
8, The City of Dreadful Night, and Other Poems. By James Thomson ( B.
a. In the Beginning. By Prof. Sir G. Elliot Smith, F.R.b.
a. Adonis; A Study in the History of Oriental Religion. By Sir James G. Frazer,
r. Our New Religion. By the Rt. Hon. H. A. L. Fisher.
2. On Compromise. By John Viscount Morley, OJL^P-C.^
. History of the Taxes on Knowledge. By Collet Dobson Collet,
'r,- - v— McCabe.
The Existence of God, By Joseph ---------- .
The Story of the Bible. By Macleod Y earsley, F.R.C.S.
5
. Savage Survivals. By J. Howard Moore.
% The Revolt of the Angels. By Anatole France.
h The Outcast. By Winwogd Reade.
l Penalties Upon Opinion. By Hypatia Bradlaugh Bonner. ,
>
. Oath, Curse, and Blessing. By E. Crawley.
Fireside Science. By Sir E. Ray Lankester, F.R.S. Prepared by Surgeon
Rear-Admiral Beadnell.
5
. History of Anthropology. By A.U, Haddon.
•
. The World’s Earliest Laws. By Chilperic Edwards. .
Fact and Faith. *By Prof' J. B. S. Haldane.
Men of the Dawn. By Dorothy Davison.
The Mind in the Making. By James Harvey Robinson.
The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals* By Charles Darwin.
Revised and Abridged by Surg, Rear-Adml. Beadnell.
Psychology for Everyman {and Woman). By A. E. Mander,
The Religion of the Open Mind. By A. Gowans Whyte.
Letters on Reasoning. By John M. Robertson.
The Social Record of Christianity. By Joseph McCabe.
Five Stages of Greek Religion. By Prof. Gilbert Murray.
'The Lifeof Jesus. By Ernest Renan.
Selected Works of Voltaire. Translated by Joseph McCabe.
What Are We to Do with Our Lives ? By H. G. Wells.
'Do What You Will, By Aldous Huxley.
,' Clearer Thinking t Logic for Everyman. By A. E. Mander.
: By Dr. D. Stark Murray
■
; First Principles. By Herbert Spencer. (Double VoL, cloth zs.)
Printed and Published in Great.Britain by C. A. Watts 8
cCo. Limited,
5 & 6 Johnson’s Court, Fleet Street, London, E.C.4
PREFACE TO THIS EDITION
T h is volume is a re-issue of part of a book published
in 1 9 1 1 . It was written in the course of an inquiry
covering about four years, and made solely with the object
of satisfying myself whether there is scientific evidence
for any supernatural (or supernormal) hypothesis.
And since then I have not neglected to read the publica­
tions of the Society for Psychical Research : but I have
not found any reason for altering my conclusions.
Perhaps what has impressed me most in studying
psychical research is the prevalence of the will-to-
believe among psychical researchers. With very few
exceptions, their object is clearly not to get at the
truth by scientific methods of inquiry, but to establish
some hypothesis. Thus we have, the testimony of
Frederic Myers that " The Society for Psychical Re­
search was founded, with the establishment of thought-
transference—already rising within measurable distance
of proof—as its primary aim. . . J* (Proceedings 5.P.R.,
Voi. V., p. 365). However, in this year of the Jubilee
of the S.P.R. I am interested to note that belief in ,
telepathy has made some psychical researchers recognise
the impossibility of getting proof of survival of “ dis-
carnate intelligence ” ; and that Sir Oliver Lodge him­
self admits there may be loopholes for scepticism even
in the best test case which he can imagine; and that
to make such a test possible “ rather an exceptional
concatenation of circumstances ” would be required.
(Proceedings S.P.R., VoL XL*, p. 12 5 ).
Accordingly, evidence for telepathy is to-day the
chief contribution of psychical research to belief in the
supernormal. But though there is a great deal of
plausible evidence, there is none that is scientifically
convincing. And as belief in thought-transference was
entertained by mankind thousands of years ago, it is
not surprising that it still exists : but surely it is signi­
ficant that just as increase of knowledge has destroyed
belief in witchcraft, so it is now doing the same for
tv
telepathy. As Sir James Frazer says in The Golden
Bough, “ Belief- in the sympathetic influence exerted
on each other by persons or things at a distance is of
the essence of magic. Whatever doubts science may
entertain as to the possibility of action at a distance,
magic has none: faith in telepathy is one of its first
principles. A modern advocate of the influence of mind
upon mind at a distance would have no difficulty in
convincing a savage : the savage believed m it long ago,
and, what is more, he acted on his belief with a logical
consistency such as his civilised brother in the^ faith
has not yet, so far as I am aware, exhibited in his
conduct.'1 (Abridged Edition, i 932>P* 22•
)
February, 1932.
PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION
I feel that the sub-title of this book will lay me open
to a well-merited charge of egoism—if of nothing worse—
unless I can justify my use of the expression “ uncommon
sense.” Therefore a foreword explaining the circum­
stances under which the book came to be written seems
necessary.
In the autumn of 1907 there appeared in the West­
minster Gazette a series of articles under the title of
“ Occultism and Common Sense,” in which the writer,
Mr. Beckles Willson, undertook, without much pretence
to any special qualification for the task, a review of
psychical research up to date in order to settle the
question whether the mid-Victorian attitude of scepticism
towards Spiritualism entertained by such great men as
Faraday, Tyndall, Huxley, and Spencer, could still be
maintained, and he came to the conclusion that in the
face of recent evidence such an attitude was unjustifiable.
Having read these articles just before sailing .for New
Zealand, I had much time on the voyage to think over
the matter, and I very much doubted whether the great
men mentioned would have found any reason in the recent
evidence quoted by Mr. Willson for changing their
opinion. However, I decided to investigate the matter
myself, and accordingly, in the ensuing year that I
spent in New Zealand, I filled up spare time by reading
with a view to making up my mind on the subject.
Then, in the attempt to estimate the value of the evidence
for Spiritualism, I was inevitably led to a consideration
of all that is popularly included in the word “ super­
natural.”
In the following pages I do not profess to have written
much that can be described, even vaguely, as original,
seeing that it is largely a reproduction of4ideas much
better expressed by philosophers like Herbert Spencer
and G. H. Lewes, by experts in natural science like
Tyndall and Huxley, by astudent of psychical phenomena
like Mr, Frank Podmore. However, their writings are
vi PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION ;
of considerable length, and not much read by the man- ;"
ixx-the-street; therefore I hope that, by combining in
one short book the results at which I have arrived with
their help, I may succeed in interesting those who have
not much time for reading, and yet are anxious to form
for themselves a sound opinion as to the truth in these j
important matters. In fact, such a book as this seems
to me particularly needed at the present time, when
writers like Thomson Jay Hudson turn out popular ,f
psychic treatises such as “ The Law of Psychic
Phenomena,” “ A Scientific Demonstration of the
Future Life,” and " The Divine Pedigree of Man,” in ;
which it is assumed that telepathy is a force in Nature
as well established as the Force of Gravity. At the
same time, I realise that I am in danger of “ falling
between two stools,” namely, on the one hand, of giving
too philosophical an expression to what is meant to be
a popular book, and, on the other hand, of being too
superficial for more scientific readers in my treatment
of questions so complex that their solution becomes
in one sense more difficult the more knowledge grows. ;
This difficulty, however, can hardly be avoided, and arises j
from the same cause as that which has induced me to
call this inquiry a critical study made with “ uncommon
.sense.” For common-sense is not by itself an adequate
protection against the fallacies which abound in complex
philosophical questions; and that this is so is clearly >
proved by the titles given to their books by those
writers on Spiritualism who have no special qualification
for the task, like the author of “ Occultism and Common-
Sense,” whom even Sir Oliver Lodge felt justified in
calling “ an irresponsible journalist.” A most excellent
illustration of this tendency is given by Podmore in the
chapter on table-turning in his “ Modern Spiritualism ”
as follows : “ The point of view of the average muddle-
headed man is amusingly illustrated in an anonymous
pamphlet published in the autumn of this year (1853),
entitled *table-turning and Table-talking considered
in connection with the dictates of Reason and Common-
Sense/ The writer finds himself constrained to record
his dissent from Faraday's explanation^ *It is not/
he contends, ' with learned theories we wish to have to
do . . . we would simply bring common-sense to bear
•bn these strange matters/ ' He then proceeds to point ^
- out—to Faraday—that *there is a subtle matter which
pervades all Nature/ tnown in some of its manifestations r
*
PREFACE TO FIRST' EDITION vii
as electricity. It is true we know very little about it;
but for all that, or perhaps because of that, it seems to
the writer not unreasonable to suggest that electricity
makes the table move. A more apt illustration of the
arrogance of sheer ignorance on which Faraday had
animadverted, could hardly be found/1 (Yol. XL,
p. 10.) And Podmore has written in the same book
another passage on the uselessness of untrained common-
sense, which is worth quoting : “ The unity of substance
and the omnipotence of electricity—*salvation by
electricity/ as James happily terms it—were the two
keys which for the early Spiritualist unlocked the doors
of all knowledge in heaven or on earth. Of the nature
of God, or other transcendental mysteries, the spirits
have nothing to say. The world they present to our
view is a strictly material world, developing by processes
of material evolution towards an unknown end. There
is no mystery about their teaching. Spirit is only
attenuated matter, the other world a counterpart of
this; the living universe an endless series of beings like
ourselves. Their view in short represents the product
of common-sense, the common-sense of the ordinary
uninstructed man, acting upon the facts, or rather his
interpretation of the facts, presented to him. Given his
interpretation as correct, the inferences which he drew,
the cosmological scheme which he constructed on the
lines of his own parochial experience, follow inevitably.
There is rarely any hint of deeper insight. The problems
of Space and Time, of Knowing and Being of Evil and
Good, of Will and Law, are hardly even recognised.
Common-sense is not competent for these questions;
and in so far as the Spiritualist scheme fails to take
account of them, it falls short of being a Theology, or
even an adequate Cosmology/' (Yol. I., p. 302.)
^A few words also are necessary in defence of the main
title of this book, as I foresee that " The Evidence for
the Supernatural ” is an expression which will lend
itself readily to adverse criticism. For I have noticed a
tendency in recent years, both among spiritualists and
ecclesiastics, to find satisfaction in the saying that the
supernatural (or supernormal) of one generation is the
natural (or normal) of the next. Thus Professor Barrett,
F.R.S., in a lecture I heard him give at Letchworth in
August, 1910, said—after stating his belief that a residue
of psychic phenomena is most readily explicable by
the hypothesis of discarnate spirits—that God alone is
viii PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION
supernatural, and that all other explanations of pheno­
mena are supernormal rather than supernatural.
To a certain extent this of course is true. To
Australian aborigines or African forest-dwellers the work­
ings of wireless telegraphy, of photography, and of
almost any branch of applied science, must appear on
their first introduction inexplicable by any natural oi
known cause, and therefore supernormal (or super­
natural) . But if an uncivilised man, in trying to explain
the phenomena of photography to his friends in the light
of his own knowledge, said that it was due to a spirit
which lived in a box possessed by the white men, and
that the white men had merely to piace^this box in the
neighbourhood of any object for the spirit of that object
to fly to the spirit in the box, where it left an imprint
on a piece of glass; though this description of the facts
might be said to contain an element of truth, yet the
explanation of the facts would not appear satisfactory
to succeeding and more enlightened generations. Also,
such an explanation of photography would be based on
errors of observation; for it leaves out of account the
position of the camera in relation to the sun, the chemicals
on the photographic plate, etc., and the fact that a
“ cap ” was removed from the lens in the process of
taking a photograph. Thus a great distinction must
be made between the truth contained in a set of recorded
facts and the explanation of such so-called facts.
Spiritualistic and ecclesiastical authorities are apt to
confuse the issue when they quote the saying “ the
supernatural of one generation is the natural of the
next ” in support of their own position. For what
they are fighting for is not so much the truth of the
so-called facts themselves as their explanations of
these facts. And whereas belief in the former may be
strengthened with the additions to knowledge which
every generation of scientific work is sure to make,
belief in the latter is more often than not weakened.
And if their explanations run counter to the accumulated
experience of mankind, known as natural laws, belief
will certainly be weakened—as for instance belief in
that explanation of the floating of Elisha's axe which
requires a suspension of the Law of Gravity, or belief
in those explanations of the “ Temptation ” that imply a
;contiraven1
ion of the* Laws of the Permanence of Matter
and the Conservation of Energy. In this sense the word
PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION I X
“ supernatural *
* has a very definite meaning, ■
and
connotes invoking the aid of hypothetical forces to
explain phenomena which are not apparently in harmony
with so-called natural laws.
Huxley was very clear in his attitude towards the
supernatural, and should command universal respect,
as, while using words on which the above-quoted saying
might be based, he did not mince matters about the
necessity of sifting evidence and rejecting whatever
might with probability be attributed to the mythopoeic
faculty in man. Thus he wrote : " In singular contrast
with natural knowledge, again, the acquaintance of
mankind with the supernatural appears the more
extensive and the more exact, and the influence of super­
natural doctrines upon conduct the greater, the further
back we go in time, and the lower the stage of civilisa­
tion submitted to investigation, Historically there would
seem to be an inverse ratio between supernatural and
natural knowledge. As the latter has widened, gained
in precision and trustworthiness, so has the former
shrunk, grown vague and questionable; as the one has
more and more filled the sphere of action, so has the other
retreated into the region of meditation, or vanished
behind the screen of mere verbal recognition/* (Pro­
logue to " Controverted Questions/* “ Essays/* VoL
V., pp. 6, 7.) And again : " It is important to note
that the principle of the scientific Naturalism of the
latter half of the nineteenth century, in which the
intellectual movement of the Renascence has culminated,
and which was first clearly formulated by Descartes,
leads not to the denial of the existence of any Super­
nature, but simply to the denial of the validity of the
evidence adduced in favour of this or that extant form
of Supematuralism. I employ the words ‘ Supernature *
and 1Supernatural *in their popular senses. For myself,
I am bound to say that the term *Nature * covers the
totality of that which is. The world of psychical
phenomena appears to me to be as much part o f' Nature *
as the world of physical phenomena; and I am unable
to perceive any justification for cutting the universe
into two halves, one natural and one supernatural/*
(" Essays/* VoL V., p. 39.) Employing the word
" Supernatural *
*in the same sense as Huxley, I maintain,
then, that there is plenty of justification for its use,
especially as I notice that, though the phraseology of
Naturalism may be partially adopted by those, engaged
X PREFACE,TO FIRST EDITION
in Biblical and psychical research, their influence often
tends to foster the spread of supernatural ideas; and
this is not surprising, when a certain number of well-
known scientific men have vouched for the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism. The Evidence for the
Supernatural is therefore still a subject of considerable
importance in the present day; and I consequently
hope that this book will appeal to a variety of readers,
not only among the clergy and general public, but among
rationalists also, if their attitude is rightly refected
by the author of " The Churches and Modem Thought/’
when he writes : “ The phenomena Professor Lombroso
refers to are those which have induced such eminent
scientists as Wallace, Lodge, Hyslop, Barrett, and
Crookes to remain or to become supernaturalists. One,
and to my mind the chief, reason why these metaphysical
phenomena are, as Professor Lombroso tells us, of colossal
importance—why science should direct attention towards
them without delay—-is that, so #soon _as they are
universally acknowledged to be manifestations occurring
in obedience to one of Nature’s laws—a law as yet not
fully understood—the last excuse for belief in the
supernatural will have vanished. Supernaturalism will
receive its death-blow, and Rationalism be infused with
fresh life ” (p. 39b) «
In my review of the evidence for the supernatural, I
have omitted all reference to witchcraft, because this
has now ceased to be a living question, largely owing to
the brilliant first chapter of Lecky’s “ The History of the
Rise and Influence of the Spirit of Rationalism in
Europe/’ As Lecky clearly shows there, belief in
witchcraft has died, not so much from the cogency
of the arguments used b y .any particular writer, as
from its being contrary to the intellectual tendencies
or mental atmosphere of the present century. Similarly,
I have little expectation of convincing by my arguments
those whose beliefs were formed irrevocably in, child­
hood ; but I hope that I may succeed in so influencing
the mental atmosphere of the present day that future
generations may find it easier to discover and hold to
whatever is true in the sphere of the so-called super­
natural, and that superstitions such as belief in witch­
craft may iacreasingly be relegated to the past.
Another criticism which I anticipate, and the last
which I propose to touch on here, is that one who does
not belong to the Society for Psychical Research, or, at
PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION xi
any rate, is not engaged in psychical research, cannot
adequately estimate the value of evidence for the
existence of mediumistic or psychic powers. To such
I am inclined to reply, that, as attending séances appears ■
to have the effect of making some men more sceptical *
and others more credulous, and as the psychological
atmosphere of a séance is by no means conducive to a
coldly critical attitude, I believe that a calm unbiassed
opinion is more easily formed in this particular type of
research by studying the records of séances made by
others with all reasonable care, and checked by every
possible device. The late Mr. Frank Podmore had a
special gift for research of this sort, and I take this
opportunity of expressing my great indebtedness to his
works.
As no human being is absolutely free from bias, I
know that this book must suffer to some extent from
this weakness ; but I have tried throughout to take an
impartial view of the evidence, and only to give way to
that form of bias which arises from fear of being misled
by inadequate or unreliable data. In spite of this, I
fear, I may perhaps have shown an unjustifiable partiality
towards belief in the supernatural, as I was brought up
in strict Quaker principles and taught that the lives of
George Fox and other saints, like St. Francis of Assisi,
constituted practical examples of divine guidance.
For some of my illustrations I have gone to the
Tongan Islands and New Zealand, as I was in that part
of the world when this book was commenced, and
other illustrations I have taken from “ Occultism and
Common-Sense ” ; but since my return to England,
volumes of the Proceedings of the S.P.R. have been
accessible to me, and I have availed myself of their
contents.
I should like to state here what a valuable work has
been done, in my opinion, by the Society for Psychical
Research, inasmuch as it has brought together and sifted
the evidence for the occult, so that it is now possible to
examine the evidence at its strongest. Previously,
psychic phenomena constituted a vague and floating
mass of material with which it was impossible to deal
as a whole, and, as soon as one claim was shown to have
no reliable basis, another cropped up in its place. In
saying this, however, I do not wish to imply that I think
the S.P.R. has always done the sifting work well ; for
too many of its most active members have had no
PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION
xii
training in experimental psychology fitting them for
their task, and have been the victims of pronounced
bias, as sometimes they themselves have admitted, so
that—in the words of Mr. Taylor Innés (i#Where are
the Letters ? ” Nineteenth Century, Vol. XXII., p. 189)—
" we can scarcely move towards our conclusions without
broadly asserting that on this side the Society of
Psychical Research has shown a great laxity in testing
its evidence.**
Next, I must record my thanks to Messrs. Methuen
& Co., T. Fisher Unwin, and Macmillan & Co., for giving
me permission to quote a large number of passages from
“ Modern Spiritualism/* " The Newer Spiritualism/*
and “ Huxley's Essays/* respectively ; and I am grateful
to the proprietors of The Times for their courtesy in
allowing me to reproduce in the appendices the “ Case
of Dr. Astley/' and other matter which had appeared
in that journal. I am also indebted to Mr. Jarvis (and
to the gentlemen acting with him in the matter of the
¿1000 challenge) for allowing me to inspect the docu­
ments in the “ Case of Mr. and Mrs. Ames/*
■ ’ October, 1911.
CONTENTS
;;|?REFAC:E:;
■
TO;•
THIS''E D IT!ON;';J
v
P r e f a c e t o F i r s t E d i t i o n .
I . W h a t i s T r u t h ? ' .
u i
v
*3
46
74
1025
HI. Spiritualism, Occultism, Psychic Force, Etc.
l!i|pP!!p^
Psychical Research ................................ 109
G. (a) The Case o f Dr. Astley’s Astral Body 118
CHAPTER I
W H AT IS TR U T H ?
I f I were attempting more than a popular treatment of
a very difficult subject, it would be necessary to consider
at length the nature of truth and its test, and to discuss
how far reality may be said to attach to all our conscious
impressions of sense, and to what extent there is corre­
spondence between the order of our ideas and the order of
phenomena. But, important as it is to realise how a
knowledge of the universe and of self is built up in the
human mind, I do not think it necessary for my purpose
to do more than refer my readers to one of the many
excellent text-books of Psychology, where these difficult
subjects—such as the growth of ideas of time and space—
are treated much more ably than I could handle them
myself.1 My purpose being rather to write from the
point of view of the man-in-the-street, I shall start with
the assumption that the ordinarily accepted facts of life
are true—such as that we exist, that the impressions we
get through our senses correspond to qualities of real
objects outside us—and I shall also assume as true the
so-called laws of Nature, e.g., Gravitation, Chemical
Affinity, etc.2 But although I start with these assump­
tions, and omit discussing the theoretical nature of a
“ true proposition,” yet it is necessary to consider what
should be our practical standard of truth; and in trying
to give a rational answer to the question, “ What is
Truth ? ” I shall hope to gain the sympathetic interest
of those readers who, like Pilate, realise that a summary
solution of this question is far from easy.
I am convinced that most people are quite unaware—
at any rate consciously—what is the basis of their
standard of truth; so I shall first of all examine a state-
1 In particular, I would recommend for perusal William James’s
“ Principles of Psychology,” Herbert Spencer’s “ First Principles,”
and the introduction to G. H. Lewes’s *
*History of Philosophy.”
2 Natural laws are based on the accumulated experience of
mankind, which includes all knowledge gained through the bodily
senses, since **intuitive necessary truths ” have been shown to 1
have no existence apart from experience. {See G. H. Lewes,
“ Prolegomena,” §§ 66- 69.)
2 WHAT IS TRUTH?
ment about some natural phenomenon which is unani­
mously believed to be true, and try to discover the
practical basis of that belief- The statement in question,
which I feel I can confidently make without fear of
contradiction, is the assertion that the sun will rise
to-morrow. The sun, in its daily journey across the sky,
being one of the most striking and frequent of human
experiences, has been observed with some care from the
earliest times, so that the first astronomers, more than
four thousand years ago, had been able by careful observa­
tion to collect sufficient data on which to build up theories
and formulate laws about its movements, the truth of
which could be tested by deducing therefrom the position
of the sun in the future and seeing if the prediction came
true. With more exact observations and with greater
knowledge it was established that the earth moved
round the sun; but for practical purposes the laws
governing the apparent movements of the sun around the
earth were almost as well known in Egyptian times as
to-day. The essential point to realise is that the method
of establishing the truth of the laws governing the sun's
movements was essentially one of verification. When
deductions were made from general laws built up by
induction from a long series of observations, and the first
predictions came true, it might have been only a case of
coincidence. But with every repetition of a correct
prediction based on these laws, the probability of these
laws being 'true was proportionately increased with a
proportionate decrease in the probability that coincidence
could be accepted as explaining the correspondence
between the predicted and actually observed movements
of the sun.
Similarly, we who are alive not only can make for
ourselves the observations on which the laws of the sun's
movements are based, but we can also predict the sun's
movements and daily verify the correctness of our
predictions; so that observing the sun rise day by day
is of the nature of an experiment, verifying the truth of
what we have been taught or learnt for ourselves about
the sun. And it is an experiment which has never failed
to give the expected result every day that we have
lived, and which, as far as we can tell from human records,
has never failed within the memory of man. Therefore
we have good grounds for believing that we understand
the laws or conditions under which the earth revolves
round the sun. On the other hand, it is conceivable
WHAT IS TRUTH? 3
that some day an unforeseen factor might completely
alter the nature of what we call sunrise, so that we cannot
assert in an absolute sense that the sunwillriseto-morrow.
But from the fact that our knowledge of the earth’s
movements is based on such an exact and extended
series of observations, combined with almost numberless
verifications, the probabilities are so enormously in
favour of conditions not altering within the next twenty-
four hours that for practical purposes we regard as truth
itself the statement that the sun will rise to-morrow.
I have read in theological works the argument that as
the certainty of to-morrow’s sunrise cannot be proved
in an absolute sense, belief in its coming is a matter
of faith. And this argument is generally used as if it
were a special discovery of theologians, and was a conclu­
sive answer to men of science, who insist ontheimportance
of experiment and the reliability of knowledge gained
through the bodily senses—if the observations made with
these are carefully verified—as opposed to beliefs based
on unverified and unverifiable evidence. But, as a
matter of fact, science does not deny that there is an
element of faith in many statements made in her name.
What it is important to note, however, is that in all
problems where faith is required the deciding factor is
probability, which ismeasuredby the difficultyofthinking
the negative of any proposition explaining the problem.
Thus in the case of an identical proposition like A is A, or
a cat is a cat, the negative is unthinkable; and similarly,
in the case of a proposition which admits of being tested
by sense, such as ice is cold, the negative is also unthink­
able. In both these cases, because the negative is un­
thinkable, there is room neither for probability nor for
faith, and they may be called absolute truths. In fact,
there are no absolute truths, except such as express an
unconditional generalisation, such as the above examples
and our conceptions about mathematical relations. For
all other truths are contingent on conditions remaining
constant; and every truth becomes invariable only so
long as conditions do not vary. Thus in more complex
propositions, such as the sun will rise to-morrow, which
do not express merely an abstract relation, the negative
is not absolutely unthinkable. However, to think the
negative is so difficult that there is the highest degree of
probability that the proposition expresses the truth.
This, then, is the first conclusion we have reached, that
no proposition is absolutely true except such as expresses
WHAT IS TRUTH?
4
an unconditional generalisation, while any truth depen­
dent on conditions requires faith. And Probability is
given by a Process of Verification.1
This is the essence of a scientific standard of truth.
Briefly stated, it insists that all observations and infer­
ences made therefrom should be verified, and that only
by combining the objective method (verification) with the
subjective method (induction and deduction) can truth
be established and knowledge enlarged.
Further, in complex problems where there are many
factors, and truth can only be established on the contin­
gency that conditions are constant and known, it is
essential that the process of verification should berepeated
if a high degree of probability is to be attained. Thus,
in the case of a proposition like the sun will rise to-morrow,
it is extremely difficult to think the negative, not so much
because there has been verification on isolated occasions,
but rather because the process has been repeated so
many times. As we have seen, when the first predictions
made by mankind about the sun's movements came true,
it might have been merely a case of coincidence. But
with every repetition of a correct prediction such an
explanation became less probable. For the oftener an
i Our belief in the constancy of the order of Nature only rests
on probability, although it is one to which we hold most firmly,
and which we allow to influence the practical decisions of our
lives at every turn, as Huxley said: “ But we must recollect
that any human belief, however broad its basis, however defensible
it may seem, is after all only a probable belief, and that our wisest
and safest generalisations are simply statements of the highest
degree of probability. Though we are quite clear about the con­
stancy of the order of Nature at the present time, and in the
present state of things, it by no means necessarily follows that we
are justified in expanding this generalisation into the infinite past,
and in denying absolutely that there may have been a time when
Nature did not follow a fixed order, when the relations of cause and
efiect were not definite, and when extra-natural agencies interfered
with the general course of Nature. Cautious men will allow that a
universe so different from that which we know may have existed,
just as a very candid thinker may admit that a world in which two
and two do not make four, and in which two straight lines do enclose
a space, may exist. But the same caution which forces the admis­
sion. of such possibilities demands a great deal of evidence before it
recognises them to be anything more substantial. And when it is
asserted that, so many thousand years ago, events occurred in a
S
er utterly foreign to and inconsistent with the existing laws of
:e, men who, without being particularly cautious, are simply
. nonest thinkers, unwilling to deceive themselves or delude othe
■ ask m trustwoirffiy; eridence of the fact.” (a Essays,” Vol. IV.,
ppi 48,49.)
WHAT IS TRUTH? 5
experiment is repeated, the greater chance there will be of
detecting fallacies iq out observations and inferences
and 01 discovering the'presence of unsuspected factors
' or conditions. Thus it is repetition of the process of
vermcation which impresses bur minds; and belief can
only oe held with the highest degree of probability when
this standard or test of truth has been applied.
•
. ^ niust be clearly understood what is the mean­
ing ot the phrase repetition of the process of verification.
It does not mean merely the devising or carrying out of
a variety of experiments designed to elucidate a complex
problem. For this is an attempt to carry out the process
of verification in a variety of ways, and is not the same
thing as repetition of the process of verification in a single
or particular way. An experiment or experience can
only be said to have been repeated when the conditions
under which it has been carried out have remained
approximately identical. For as the truth of any pro­
position is contingent on conditions remaining constant,
so repetition of an experiment adds to the cogency of the
process of verification only when the conditions have
remained constant. Consequently, when we devise a
variety of experiments designed to elucidate a problem,
it is essential that each experiment should be repeated
under conditions as nearly identical as possible; and if
the conditions vary in a series of experiments, we cannot
claim to have repeated the process of verification, for
each time that the conditions varied it was a different
experiment which we were carrying out. This is apt
to be forgotten in physiological and psychological experi­
ments, in which an attempt is made to discover a causal
connection between two groups of facts or between a
group of facts and a hypothetical explanation. Thus,
■ia the records of the Society for Psychical Research, one
comes across a number of experiments or experiences1
which were never repeated under approximately identical
conditions; and in illustration of the need of taking the
utmost pains to keep the conditions under which an
experiment is performed as identical as possible, I quote
the following instance from my own experience :—
I once undertook some experiments to find out the
effect of injecting into animals a particular kind of
serum. I was hoping that it would produce a particu­
lar effect, and I was delighted to obtain the result I
expected in my very first' experiment. ; On repeating
6 WHAT IS TRUTH ?
the experiment thirty or more times I obtained the
same result in varying degrees in all but a very few
experiments* Still I was not satisfied that I could be
sure of a causal connection between the injection of
the serum and the effect observed, till I had performed
some control experiments. By control experiments
one means observing the effect of the experimental
conditions apart from the definite injection or proce­
dure, the effect of which is being investigated. In
this particular instance, instead of injecting _serum,
I injected a weak solution of salt; and now, in some
ten experiments, I did not get the effect I had before
observed after injecting serum. I then thought that
I had proved a causal connection between the injection
of this particular kind of serum and the effect observed.
But subsequent experiments suggested by this apparent
discovery showed that there was a fallacy somewhere,
and ultimately I found that my ten control experiments
had given me a misleading result in the following way.
The animals used for my control experiments happened
to be in all cases animals I had bought the day before
they were used; and they were in consequence thin
and half-starved, in very different condition from any
animal I had kept in the laboratory for a few; days or
weeks. In a starved animal the liver is poor in a sub­
stance called glycogen, and the effect I had observed
after injecting serum depended very largely, as I ulti­
mately found, on the presence of glycogen in the liver.
I did some more control experiments in well-fed animals;
and then I obtained exactly the same result as after
the injection of serum. Consequently, there was no
causal connection between the injection of serum and
the effect observed, which was purely the result of the
experimental conditions depending both on the influence
of the anaesthetic and on the stimulation of visceral
nerves. This case illustrates very well the difficulties of
research, and how easily a fallacy creeps in, unless one
has the.most rigid standard of truth : namely, to admit
no causal connection until one has obtained the same
result very many times under approximately identical
conditions with control experiments clearly confirming;
so easy is it to be deceived either by defective and biased
observation or by ignorance of all the factors concerned
in the problem. In this case, through experimenting
with animals in a different state of nutrition, I wasted
many months of work in the belief that my first set
WHAT IS TRUTH? 7
of control experiments were performed under conditions
identical with those tinder which I performed my other
experiments.
Lastly in any complex problem, provided that the
process of verification is applied in a satisfactory manner,
it is, of course, desirable to apply the process in as varied
a way as possible. Thus the conditions governing the
apparent movements of the sun and the motions of the
heavenly bodies have been found out largely by making
long series of observations at different points of the earth
and at different times. But the essential factor of success
has lain in making certain of the accuracy of each series
,by constant repetition. Consequently, in any problem
where the process of verification has been applied in a
variety of ways, and where our reason tells us that there
is a very high degree of probability that the truth has
been discovered, the essential point to remember is that
the process of verification has been repeated in at least
one way. And so we arrive at a rule which may be
stated as follows : In problems where repetition of the
process of verification is not possible, the truth cannot be
ascertained with a degree o f probability entitling us to
hold more than a strong positive opinion, and the only
rational attitude is humbly to say: u We do not know”
This rule can be taken as the basis of a practical standard
of truth.
Very different is the standard of truth of the average
man in dealing with what may be called " supernatural
problems for in these he is prone either to yield
credence to the teaching of authority without demanding
proof satisfying a scientific standard of truth, or to be
himself convinced by some striking personal experience
which very often amounts to no more than a single
experiment.
A good example of what I mean and witness to this
tendency in human nature is afforded by a monument
which stands in Devizes market-place, recording how
on that spot a woman was once blasphemous enough
to wish that God would strike her dead if she was not
speaking the truth, and how immediately she dropped
down dead.1 In this instance there is no question of
1 The complete inscription on the stone runs as follows : *
*The
Mayor and Corporation of Devizes avail themselves of the
Stability of this Building to transmit to future times the Record of
an awful event, which occurred in this market place in the year
WHAT IS TRUTH?
8
the facts; but at the same time they do not prove that
God struck her dead. On the contrary, any one who was
disinclined to believe the “ supernatural ” explanation
of the facts might point out another probable explanation
by recalling numerous instances where fear of the terrible
consequences of some act had led to syncope—sudden
stoppage of the heart—and death. For instance, in a
book called “ Old New Zealand” (p. 95). *>y Judge
Maning, the case of a Maori is recorded, who, unwittingly
having eaten some food reserved for a chief, died very
soon afterwards from the fear awakened by his belief m
the terrible consequences which would overtake him
for having eaten this sacred food.
Similarly, I have myself seen at least two men drop
down dead from the nervous fear engendered by being
examined at a hospital and seeing the terrible word
“ asthenia ” written on their paper as the disease from
which they were suffering. I may add thatf asthenia
merely means weakness, and is often written when it is
difficult to make out any definite disease. In both
these cases the men had enlarged hearts, with the walls
weakened by fatty degeneration.
However, there is no reason for thinking that so-called
supernatural problems are not suitable questions for the
reason to deal with, and therefore are not amenable to
the same tests of truth as natural problems in settling
their probability. The chief difficulty is that nearly all
supernatural experiences are of such a nature that they
are incapable of repetition under approximately identical
conditions, and therefore are necessarily of the nature of
single experiments. Consequently, we are unable to say
with a degree of probability amounting to certainty that
1753, hoping that such record may serve as a salutary warning
against the danger of impiously invoking Divine vengeance, or of
calling on the Holy name of God to conceal the devices of falsehood
and fraud.
. “ On Thursday, the 25th of January, 1753, Ruth Pierce, of
Pbttern, in this county, agreed with three other women to buy a
sack of wheat in the market, each paying her due proportion
towards the same. One of these women, in collecting the several
8
iotas of money, discovered a deficiency, and demanded of Ruth
erce the sum which was wanting to make good the amount;
. Ruth Pierce protested that she had paid her share, and said she
wished she might drop down dead if she had not. She rashly
repeated this awful wish, when, to the consternation and terror
of the surrounding multitude, she instantly fell down and expired,
having the money concealed in her hand/*
WHAT IS TRUTH? 9
we understand all the factors or conditions involved in
any supernatural problem. This being the case, the only
rational attitude, as we have seen, is one of humble
agnosticism. At the same time, the solution of many of
these questions is of such practical importance to us that
it is hardly possible to avoid holding a very strong opinion
or belief about the " supernatural.” And in fact there
is nothing unscientific or unreasonable about “ making
up our minds ” on these subjects, if we do not profess to
found our opinions on a supernatural standard of truth
superior to that of science, and if we also recognise the
importance of possessing as great a knowledge of the
facts of life as possible.1 For convictions based on
probability may subsequently have to be given up, if
with wider experience our reason tells us that the old
beliefs do not harmonise with or explain the newer facts
and therefore are not probable. As G. H. Lewes says
(“ Prolegomena,” § 35) :
" Finally, it is notorious that our experience, even
when uniform, is narrow; so that when a man affirms
anything on the guarantee of its negative being
unthinkable, we can disturb his confidence by show­
ing that the negative is thinkable and conformable
with a wider experience.”
And yet at first sight there is something to be said for
the habit of mind of the mystic, wherebyhehas astandard
of truth for personal religious experiences different from
that which he has for solving physical problems. For an
introspective or a self-conscious experience is apt to carry
a sense of cogency even greater than that attaching to
impressions derived through the five senses; and if only
we could find good reasons for trusting in an absolute
sense the cogency attaching to a personal spiritual
experience, that alone would constitute a good reason for
having a double standard of truth. But can we ?
1 Huxley maintained that agnosticism was not merely a negative
attitude, when he wrote : . a man may be an agnostic in the
sense of admitting he has no positive knowledge, and yet consider
that he has more or less probable ground for accepting any given
hypothesis about the spiritual world. Just as a man may frankly
declare that he has no means of knowing whether the planets
generally are inhabited, or not, and yet may think one of the two
possible hypotheses more likely than the other, so he may admit that
he has no means of knowing anything about the spiritual world, and
yet may think one or other of the current views on the subject to
some extent probable,” (**Essays,” Vol. V., p. 328.}
IO WHAT IS TRUTH?
In the domain of physical research the necessity for
a rigid standard of truth arises from the fact that not
only are we liable to be the victims of bias in interpreting
the data obtained with the use of our five senses, but
also that our senses themselves are subject to disturbing
factors leading to error. These may be wholly central—
that is, associated with subtle changes in the higher
centres of the brain—as shown to an exaggerated degree
in the condition known as " delirium tremens,” where the
victim of inebriety may see objects (e.g.f snakes or rats)
corresponding to no external reality, or they may be
situated in the peripheral part of the sense organ, as, for
instance, where the floating bodies in the vitreous humour
of the eye—known as " muscas volitantes ” —by casting
a shadow on the retina, have often led people to think
thev saw bodies floating about in the air which had no
real existence. Again, the impression gained through a
sense may be masked or altered by changes set up in that
sense-organ by previous or simultaneous stimuli of a
different nature, as, for instance, where our impression
of some colour is quite altered by the contrast of some
other colour, or where our sense of taste is totally different
after some drug like cocaine. Now, though these
examples of perverted sense-impressions are well marked
and obvious, it is impossible to draw any sharp dividing
line between them and more subtle conditions. Varying
degrees of fatigue, for instance, of which it is most difficult
to be aware, may at any time be a subtle cause of error
in making observations with our senses.
Similarly, in the domain of self-consciousness, as every
mental phenomenon is associated with some material
change in the brain, it is obvious that, here, too, there
will be a likelihood of circulatory, chemical, and other
subtle changes affecting the nature of our spiritual
impressions. And it is impossible to draw a sharp line
between obviously morbid experiences, such as those
described in a paper entitled “ Certain Mental Changes
that Accompany Visceral Disease,” by Henry Head
(Brain, XXIV., 1901), and the phenomena resulting from
less pronounced degrees of fatigue or disease. Again, the
influence of early training admittedly colours the com­
plexion of our self-conscious experiences. Thus, a child
who has been taught that a certain course of action is
wrong will be liable to have qualms of conscience in
regard to this particular act, although it may be some­
thing which a member of another face or creed might
•WHAT IS TRUTH? xi
regard as absolutely harmless. For instance, the example
already given of the Maori dying after eating food re­
served for a chief illustrates well the operation of con­
science under circumstances which would leave an
Englishman unaffected. And similarly, in insanity, the
nature of the delusion depends very largely on the
character of the ideas which have formed the child's
mind. Thus, a Roman Catholic, who firmly believes in
the infallibility of the Pope, and in the power of his
Church to give absolution for sin, never becomes the
victim of the delusion of having committed the " un­
pardonable sin," whereas it is a comparatively common
delusion among Calvinists who get mentally deranged.
Now, as all psychologists tell us, it is impossible to
draw a sharp line between sanity and insanity, so we
are all liable to have our conscious life more or less
coloured by delusions, which, in these slighter forms, we
call bias. Even the Roman Catholic Church admits the
truth of this, as shown by the fact that, recognising the
danger of trusting to the guidance of conscience in an
absolute sense, she insists on the necessity of admitting
“ authority,” and submitting thereto personal experience.
And without necessarily' admitting the authority of the
Catholic Church, every thoughtful man will acknowledge
the wisdom of this principle; for the history of Quakerism
illustrates well the danger of trusting absolutely to the
guidance of conscience, as, for instance, when George
Fox ran about Lichfield market-place shouting: “ Woe
to the bloody city of Lichfield.”
A further illustration, for the truth of which a medical
friend vouches, is so typical that I feel justified in
inserting it here. A minister in the “ Society of Friends ''
was overworked and suffering from depression. One
day, in obedience to the voice of conscience, he tried to
drown himself. On finding himself in the water, the
natural animal instinct of self-preservation made him
struggle to the bank. There he crawled out of the water,
and, kneeling by the river-side, asked God in prayer if
He had not made a mistake in telling him to drown
himself. He imagined that God, in the form of the voice
of conscience, answered: ” It was no mistake. You
did right in following your conscience.” So the poor
man threw himself in the river a second time, and a
second time his instinct of self-preservation impelled
him to struggle out. Then he made his way to the ,
X2 WHAT IS TRUTH?
nearest police station, and so came under medical
treatment.
' Now, since it is just because our impressions of sense
are so untrustworthy 1that we require a rigid standard of
truth in dealing with natural problems, and since our
reason only admits a high degree of probability or proof
when the process of verification has been repeated again
and again, there can be no good reason for attaching a
superior cogency to personal religious experiences, which
not only may be influenced by morbid bodily processes,
as we have seen, but also are seldom, if ever, capable of
verification or repetition.
If then, what I have written has found acceptance
with the reader, he will agree that the only reasonable
attitude for a sensible man to adopt towards any problem
dealing with the supernatural, which cannot be submitted
to a scientific standard of truth, is that of saying, I do
not know, yet such and such is my opinion," and that in
these cases, the wider his experience, the more probably
will his opinion approximate towards the truth.
x As G. H. Lewes says (“ Prolegomena,” § 38) : “ Subjective
agreement is as perfect in hallucination asyn perception, which
M Taine happily calls une h a llu cin a tio n vraie. How then are we
ever to be certain that our formulas are true, that the order of our
ideas is in correspondence with the order of things. « . . Wnen
all the senses converge, when all the evidence corroborates, we are
forced to believe in the objective reality, unless we declare all
existence to be a dream.’*
• • CHAPTER II
THE VALU E OF EVIDENCE
H a v i n g now defined our attitude towards truth, and
shown the difficulty of attaining certainty, we are ready
to study the evidence for the " supernatural.” But
before doing so we must consider what constitutes
valuable evidence in general, as the nature of our opinions
on questions dealing with the “ supernatural ” turns very
largely on our realising the value of evidence.
To the ordinary mind the word evidence will suggest
a legal rather than a scientific connotation. But for
our present purpose the scientific use of the word chiefly
needs our consideration. For, whereas lawyers for
practical purposes have to rest content with human
evidence rendered fairly accurate by cross-examination
and other legalmethods, sciencerests content with nothing
less than the greatest accuracy possible, though she
recognises that absolute accuracy may never be attained.
There are xhany factors tending to render human
evidence unreliable; but the sources of error may roughly
be divided into two main classes under the headings {a)
physical, (b) psychical. As regards the former class, I
do not propose to say much, since it is obvious that
alterations in the sense-organs themselves, as indicated
in the last chapter, may lead to faulty observation. It
is rather the psychical or mental causes of unreliable
or^inaccurate evidence that I wish to dwell upon. In
this connection human evidence must be looked at from
two points of view: that of observation and that of
interpretation. For, in the first place, a man may be
unreliable in the observations he makes, and in the second
place, even if the facts are correctly observed, his inter­
pretation of them may be entirely wrong.1
In order to make accurate observations, a certain
amount of training is necessary. Just as it takes practice
to become a good public speaker, though every man has
1 Dr. Hodgson wrote an article on *
*The Possibilities of Mai*
observation ” in The Proceedings of the S.PJ?., Vol. IV., p, 387,
where many good illustrations of this source of error in a story are
given, , 1 , ' .
THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE
the organs for speaking, so the possession of a pair of
eyes does not in itself give the power to use them or to
express accnrately what is seen with them. The average
man has no idea how difficult it is merely to observe the
minutiae of almost any phenomenon, till he has attempted
the task of solving some problem on the lines of a scientific
research. A certain amount of training—that is, of
knowledge—is almost essential in order to enable one to
be on the look-ont for phenomena which are likely to take
place. On the other hand, an even greater source of error
is the bias of some preconceived theory as to what is likely
to take place, quite unconsciously blinding one to what
actually takes place, and leading one to see phenomena
which never occurred at all. It is a similar type of bias
developed in childhood which has done so much to
perpetuate religious differences in the world; for the
adult mind, which can reason quite well on matters about
which it feels no bias, is apt to have its reasoning faculties
fettered in favour of that view which has got linked up
with an emotional interest, such as is given by association
with childhood's teaching, connected as it often is with
early memories of a beloved mother. Of course it is
well-nigh impossible to approach any problem, even one
of purely scientific interest, without having some pre­
conceived views on the subject. But it is the mark of a
great mind that, as soon as it finds that the facts will not
support these views, it is ready to abandon them. It
is this quality among others which has made certain
scientificmen—Darwin, for instance—so eminently great.1
The psychical causes of unreliable observation, apart
from obvious physical disabilities, are thus due to want
of training and bias. Very similar are the causes of the
erroneous interpretation of phenomena which may haye
1 Mr. Taylor limes has a very pertinent passage about the effect
of bias in tales of the supernormal and in psychical researches,
where he says, “ The truth is, the great difficulty in this matter ”
— (the question of phantasms of the living)— " has always been
(on the side both of experiment and testimony) that men have
generally been too restless to deal with it according to simple and
scientific rule, and have been found, almost as soon as they were
unwatched by the eyes of others, scratching at the wall of the
unseen. For this reason, I have always expected most from
8
[uirers who had no great personal interest, religious or irreligious,
this matter, whose faith in the unseen was already solidly based
moral considerations* and whose object as investigators was
S
trely to conquer for science a small strip of neutral ground,”
Where are the Letters? ” N in e tee n th C en tu ry , Vol. X X II.,
1930
t h e v a l u e o f e v id e n c e 15
themselves been accurately observed. For, in order to
see the proper bearing of any set of facts, we require the
appropriate kind of training. Thus, we do not go to a
doctor for a reliable opinion on a legal question, nor to a
lawyer for a medical opinion. In fact, though the need
for expert opinion in life may be exaggerated, it cannot
be dispensed with in the present state of differentiated
knowledge. Then bias, again, is a source of error, even
greater perhaps in the interpretation than in the observa­
tion of phenomena. Unless the reasoning faculties are
unhampered by preconceived views they are very liable
to lead one astray in assigning cause to effect.
One of the best illustrations of mal-observation com­
bined with erroneous interpretation of the phenomena
is the famous case in which the Master of Lindsay,
Viscount Adare, and Captain Wynne, thought they
saw the medium, Daniel Douglas Home, float out of
one window and in at another at 5, Buckingham Gate,
London, on December 16th, 1868. Here is the account
written by Lord Lindsay on July 14th, 1871, about two
and a half years afterwards, and published in a pamphlet
entitled " Psychic Power—Spirit Power, Experimental
Investigation’' (London, 1871) :
" I was sitting with Mr. Home and Lord Adare
and a cousin of his. During the sitting Mr. Home
went into a trance, and in that state was carried out
of the window in the room next to where we were,
and was brought in at our window. The distance
between the windows was about seven feet six inches,
and there was not the slightest foothold between
them, nor was there more than a twelve-inch pro­
jection to each window, which served as a ledge to
put flowers on. We heard the window in the next
room lifted up, and almost immediately after we saw
Home floating in the air outside our window. The
moon was shining full into the room; my back was
to the light, and I saw the shadow on the wall of the
window-sill and Home's feet about six inches above
it. He remained in this position for a few seconds,
then raised the window and glided into the room
feet foremost and sat down."
The account of the phenomenon given by the same
observer to the Committee of the Dialectical Society
in July 1869, only about six months after the occur­
rence, is also worth reproducing for comparison :
l6 THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE
“ I saw the levitations in Victoria Street when
Home floated out of the window. He first went into
a trance and walked about uneasily ; he then went
into the hall. While he was away I heard a_voice
whisper in my ear, *He will go out of one window
and in at another.’ I was alarmed and shocked at so
dangerous an experiment. I told, the company what
I had heard, and .we then waited for Home s return.
Shortly after he entered the room. I heard the
window go up, but I could not see it, for I sat with
mv back to it. I, however, saw his shadow on the
opposite wall; he went out of the window m a
horizontal position, and I saw him outside the other
window (that is, the next room), floating in the air.
It was eighty-five feet from the ground.” ( Report
of the Dialectical Society,” p. 214.)
As the séance took place on the third floor, it is obvious
that eighty-five feet is an inaccuracy in the report, out
perhaps it is only a clerical error for thirty-five feet.
The discrepancies in the two accounts are doubtless
due to inaccurate reporting, but the statement about
the shadow cast by the moon is an instance of mal-
observation, as the moon was new on December 13th,
1868, three days before the séance. In both accounts the
impression is given that the observer saw Home floating
in a horizontal position. Now, as Lord Adare states that
Home stood upright, one of the two observers must have
been mistaken. Here is Lord Adare s account.
" We heard Home go into the next room, heard the
window thrown up, and presently Home appeared
standing upright outside our window ; he opened the
window and walked in quite coolly. ( Life of
D. D. Home,” by his wife, p. 301.)
The only observation from Captain Wynne is contained
in a letter to Home dated February 2nd, 1877, and runs
as follows : -
'* The fact of your having gone out of one window
and in at the other I can swear to.” (" Life of D. D.
Home,” p. 307.)
I give no further commentary on the case myself,
as all that can be said has been put so well by Mr. Frank
Podmore, who devoted the best years of his life to the
investigation of pyschical problems. He writes :
" It is to be noted that, as we learn from Lord
Adare’s account, there was no light in the room during
THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE
Wi
the séance, except such as came through the window
(from a moon two days old) ; that Lord Lindsay had,
at an earlier period of the evening, seen an apparition
of a man sitting in a chair; that one of the spirits
before the performance had announced what it was
proposed to do; and finally that on a previous
occasion afew days before, in the presence of two of the
same witnesses, Home had opened the same window,
stepped on the ledge outside, and remained standing
there, to the great alarm of Lord Lindsay, looking
down at the street some eighty feet below. The
medium had thus, as it were, furnished a rough
sketch of the picture which he aimed at producing.
Whatever the nature of the complex illusion, how­
ever, whether of sense or of memory—or, as seems
likely, of both—it is certain that it was shared in the
retrospect by all the three persons present. Actually,
however, the collective part of the illusion is seen in
analysis to have been of a comparatively unimpressive
kind. From Lord Lindsay's account, the most
detailed record which we have of the actual levitation,
it would seem that Home, probably after having
announced that the spirits were about to carry him
through the air from one window to another, left the
room. ' A sound was heard, which may or may not
have been due. to the cause which it suggested, the
opening of the window in the next room. Shortly
afterwards Lord Lindsay, who had his back to the
window, saw on the opposite wall a shadow thrown by
the faint moonlight, which suggested to him that
Home was outside the window ; and he appears to
have accepted the assurance of the *spirits * that in
fact the medium had been conveyed to that point
through the air from the window ledge to the adjoin­
ing room. Whether Lord Adare or ■
Captain Wynne ■
had their eyes turned towards the window, or generally
upon what impressions of sense they based their
conviction that Home had actually been levitated,
does not appear. Remembering that the room was
lighted only by a moon two days old, we are clearly
not justified in attaching more weight to their general
statements than to the detailed record of Lord
Lindsay. How much that record is worth as evidence
for a miracle, the reader, with the depositions before
him, may judge for himself.” (“ Modern Spiritual­
ism,” Vol. II., p. 258.)
x8 THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE j
To complete the review of this case, I am adding the \
following paragraph from Professor Newcomb’s article |
on “ Modem Occultism“ (Nineteenth Century, No. 383, j
P- *37)* * !
*‘ Now, ifwe admit the existence of gifted individuals' |
having such abnormal powers as these, why not I
equally admit the existence of men having the faculty
of seeing, or thinking they remember having seen,
the non-existent ? The latter certainly seems much \
easier to suppose than does the former. It is a j
familiar fact of physiological optics that, in a faint .
light, if the eyes are fixed upon an object, the latter I
gradually becomes clouded and finally disappears '
entirely. Then it requires only a little heightening \
of a not unusual imagination to believe that, if the
object that disappeared was a man, he wafted him­
self through the air and went out of the window.” 1
A third source of error which ought perhaps to be 4
!
mentioned, as it is frequently seen in connection with I
Spiritualism, is the tendency of an idea or story to grow I
in the mind. Consequently, a most necessary part of (j
the equipment for doing scientific research is the habit |
of noting down accurately phenomena as they occur. ,
1
If the record of an experiment is not made till later, |
it is so easy to deceive oneself under the influence of |
bias or faulty memory, and imagine afterwards, quite I
genuinely, that phenomena took place which actually |
never occurred.2 ■ 1
1 For a fuller account of and commentary on this remarkable
case the reader should refer to Podmore’s “ Newer Spiritualism,” ;
pp. 66- 72. It ends as follows : “ What no doubt happened was
that Home, having noisily opened the window in the next room, ;
slipped back under cover of the darkness into the seance room, -
got behind the curtain, opened the window, and stepped on to the -
window-ledge.” •
!
!
2In other words, a narrator’s belief in his own belief is of minor ,4
consequence. " What really is important,” as Mr. Innes says, 3
“ and in the ordinary case is conclusive, is a writing which passes *
out of the hand of the *percipient * or dreamer, before the news |
reaches him, which confirms from without what he has already |
written and sent away. And most fortunately this, which is the ;
conclusive case/, must be also a very common one” {Nineteenth
Century* Vol, XXIX., p. 177}, But, curiously enough, in stories
alleging the crossing of letters or the making of a note in a diary, C
theletters or the diary can hardly ever be produced. Consequently, 1
the absence of documentary evidence, in cases where it canreasonably J
be demanded, gets, to have almost a positive value, and becomes ‘
*
*nearly conclusive against a stoty as 'the presence of such
evidence would be in its favour.” 1 ■
' 1
1 , ;
THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE 19
Thus I myself was once witness and cause of an
instance of supposed telepathy on the part of my wife,
I was on a long journey from home when I broke my leg,
and, not wishing to cause my wife anxiety, I did not
mention the fact in writing to her next day. But
knowing that shewould get to hear of it, I thought I would
prepare her for the news by making a joking reference to
how I should behave under certain conditions if I had a
broken leg. Her answer to this letter showed not the
least anxiety, and implied how much she had been
amused by my little joke about a broken leg. Yet
months afterwards I heard my wife telling some friend
how, when I broke my leg, she had an intense feeling of
anxiety, and knew at the time that some dreadful
accident was taking place.
Another example illustrating the need for a written
and dated document at the time of an occurrence, if
we are to be sure of the accuracy of a remembered event,
is furnished by the well-known case of Judge Hornby:
“ In the Nineteenth Century for July 1884 an
article appeared from Messrs. Gurney and Myers,
which was justly regarded as affording the most
indisputable evidence ever adduced for the re­
appearance of a dead person. Sir Edmond Hornby,
a judge of the Consular Court at Shanghai, had been
■ visited during the night by a reporter desiring a copy
of a decision which he was to deliver on the following
morning. , He rose from Ms bed, dictated what he
had to say, and dismissed the reporter with a rebuke
for having disturbed him. Next morning, on going
to court, he was astounded by learning that the
reporter, with whom he was well acquainted, had
died suddenly during the night. Inquiring after the
hour of the demise, he found it to coincide with that
of the nightly visitation. The authors also informed
us in the article that the story was confirmed by Lady
Hornby, who was mentioned in it, and was cognisant
of the circumstances.
“ This narrative was almost unique in that it
: ' admitted of verification.1When it reached Shanghai,
■it met the eyes of some acquainted with the afctual
„ facts. These were made known in another publica­
tion, and showed that several months must have
elapsed between the reporter's death and the judge's
vision. The latter was only a vivid dream about a
; B . : 1 ; ■
: 1 1 ■ .
20 THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE
dead person. When the case was brought to the
judge's attention.» he did not deny the new version,
and could only say he had supposed the facts to be as
'he had narrated them." (Quoted from Professor
Newcomb's article on “ Modem Occultism," Nine­
teenth Century, No. 383, p. 135.)
A fourth source of error may be the omission of some
pertinent detail in the account of an occurrence, which
otherwise does not deviate from the truth in any particu­
lar. Professor Newcomb, in the article above cited, gives
an excellent example. He says ;
" I once examined an interesting case of this kind
at the request of Dr. Hodgson. A naval ship had
been wrecked in a storm off Cape Hatteras some years
before, and most of those on board, including the
captain, had perished. Before she sailed on her
voyage, one of her officers was seized with so strong
and persistent a presentiment that the ship would be
lost, that he formally requested to be detached from
her. This being refused, he left his post of duty and
was tried by court-martial for desertion. Dr.
Hodgson desired me to see whether this story could
be verified by the official records. This was easily
done, and the narrative was found to be substantially
correct so far as it went. But it omitted to state that
the officer had exhibited symptoms of mental aberra­
tion before his presentiment, that the latter was only
one of a great number of wild fears which he had
expressed to various parties, including his superior
officer, and that several months elapsed after this
before the ship sailed on her fateful voyage, she
having in the meantime made several trips on the
coast. When thus completed, the story became
altogether commonplace."
But the errors of omission can really be included in
the larger category of " inaccurate reporting," perhaps
the commonest source of error permeating psychical
literature. In illustration of this tendency, the following
passage from Podmore’s “ Modem Spiritualism" is
worth quoting:
, ■ " A striking -instance of inaccurate reporting is
furnished by Miss Martiaeau, , In her *Letters on
' ‘ Mesmerismrshe relates that a vague report had come
'oh Snhdhy* October 13th, 1844, to the house at
THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE 21
Tynemouth where she was then lodging, that the boat
in which a cousin of her clairvoyant subject, jane,
1
was sailing had been wrecked. On the Tuesday
evening no authentic news as to the fate of the sailors
had, according to Miss Martineau, reached the house
up till 8 p.m. At that hour a séance was held, and
the entranced Jane gave the joyful news that all on
board were saved, except one'boy, and that the boat
which rescued them was a foreign one. At the very
hour, Miss Martineau adds, when this intelligence
was being delivered in her sitting-room, the sailor’s
mother, who had come in after the commencement
of the séance, and without the knowledge of Miss
Martineau and her circle, was telling the same story
in the kitchen, two floors below. In his *Illustrations
of Modern Mesmerism/ Forbes shows, on the evidence
of a local doctor and of one of the witnesses at the
séance, that the good news was actually known in the
house three hours before the sitting. Miss Martin-
can’s deafness may have accounted for the misunder­
standing. In her "Autobiography* (edition -of
1877, Vol. IL, p. 198}, Miss Martineau, referring to
Forbes’s action in the matter, states that she holds
a legal declaration, which ‘ establishes the main fact
on which the somnambule’s story of shipwreck was
attempted to be overthrown/ But, she gives no
particulars, nor attempts to refute Dr. Forbes’s
exposure in detail/’ (Vol. I., p. 153, footnote.) ^
It is owing to the recognition of all thesesources of error
in human evidence,1when witnesses are not consciously
trying to deceive, that science has found it necessary
to have such a rigid standard of truth ; namely, to be
agnostic about any causal sequence, until tte phenomena
have been repeated under the same conditions asufficient
1 An eminent judge, whose opinion I once asked about the
trustworthiness of evidence, told me that, in his experience, most
witnesses tried to fell the truth, but were quite incapable of doing
so. On the other hand, he thought he generally knew by small
subconscious signs, such as furtive glances, if a witness had made up
Ms mind beforehand to lie.
Podmore, who probably had Investigated more stories of the
supernormal, thah any of Ms contemporaries, summed up his
experience as follows : *
*It seems difficult to place any limit on the
untrustworthiness of human testimony, especially in cases where
,the émotions are involved, or where thereis occasion for edification.**
(“ Telepathic Hallucinations/* p. 36.)
»2 THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE
number of times to convert a probability of the supposed
causal sequence being true into a relative certainty.
But since all history is of such a nature that repetition
of any event under identical conditions is well-nigh
impossible, it may be asked if any credence can be given
to historical evidence at all. And an opponent of the
scientific point of view apparently has a good opportunity
of covering it with ridicule by arguing, as a reduciio
ad abswdum, that some well-known historical event,
such as the death of Julius Caesar, never took place.
Indeed, allhistoricalevents constitute caseswhereperhaps
the strictest reasoning would dictate an attitude of
agnosticism, but where for practical purposes each one
of us cannot help having some settled conviction, which
is so extremely probable that it amounts almost to
knowledge. , „
For practical purposes, then, we may say we believe or
know any piece of history to be true if the human evidence
on which it rests has been sifted and found to stand the
test of historical criticism, and if it does not involve
the occurrence of something which for philosophical
or other reasons we call extremely improbable.1 But
where an element of improbability is felt, we should be
much more inclined to an agnostic attitude, remembering
the unreliability of human evidence; or at least subject
i Huxley’s dictum on this subject was as follows: “ The rule
of common sense is prima facie to trust a witness in all matters,
in which neither his self-interest, his passions, his prejudices, nor
that love of the marvellous which is inherent to a greater or less
degree in mankind, are strongly concerned; and, when they are
involved, to require corroborative evidence in exact proportion
to the contravention of probability by the thing testified,”
(“ Essays,” Vol. V., p. 226.) And he illustrated it with an essay
entitled “ The Value of Witness to the Miraculous,” which, in
my opinion, is one of the most important contributions to the
subject of psychical research ever made, and which may be sum­
marised in Huxley’s own words as follows: “ The story of the
*Translation of the Blessed Martyrs Marcellinus and Petrus,’
and the other considerations (to which endless additions might
have been made from the Fathers and the mediaeval writers) set
forth in a preceding essay, yield, in my judgment, satisfactory
proof that, where the miraculous is concerned, neither considerable
intellectual ability, nor undoubted honesty, nor knowledge of the
world, nor proved faithfulness as civil historians, nor profound
piety, on the part of eye-witnesses and contemporaries, affords
any guarantee of the objective truth of their statements, when we
know that a firm belief in the miraculous, was ingrained in their
minds, and was the presupposition of their observations and
teasomngiC* (w'Essays,” Vol V., p, 329.) , ¡
THE VALUE OF ' EVIDENCE 23
the evidence to the severest criticism before we say we
believe. Thus, as there is nothing improbable about the
death of Julius Csesar, we find little difficulty in believing
it on the evidence, preserved, by history, of the witnesses
who saw it; but as regards the portents which the same
witnesses say occurred to indicate his approaching death
—which Shakespeare has so dramatically rendered for
us—there is much greater- difficulty in belief, because an
element of improbability is introduced, founded on the
fact that within our own experience, and also within that
of what I may call " scientific man,” portents have never
been shown with certainty to occur; and, on the other
hand, we know from history that in the time of Julius
Caesar a belief in portents was almost universal, so that
the witnesses of his death were biased in this respect.1
The value of historical evidence at the same time
is by no means easy to determine. Thus I myself was
satisfied for some years with the answer of a distinguished
historian—whom, as an expert historian and as an earnest
old-fashioned Christian, I asked about these questions
in my search after truth—to the effect that the evidence
1 Some remarks of Podmore on the subject of ghosts are worth
recalling: “ If we are justified, then, in our suspicion of the sea-
serpent, we are doubly justified in the reluctant hearing which
we yield to ghost stories. Man, as has been said by some one,
is not naturally a veridical animal. It is not, in fact, an easy
thing to tell the truth. It is the most difficult of all arts, and one
of the latest acquirements of the most civilised races. There are,
in the first place, defects and excesses in narration caused by self-
interest, or by the dramatic instinct, the love of telling a good
story., But defects of this kind are generally recognised and
proportionately easy to guard against. The real danger is more,
subtle. Not only our memory, but our very acts of perception
are shaped by our preconceptions, and prejudices. To put it
crudely, what we see and what we remember is not what actually
happened, but what we think ought to have happened or what
was likely to have happened. The retina supplies us with an
imperfect photograph, a crude sensation. But this imperfect
photograph is not 4perceived ’ until it has been telegraphed up
to higher brain centres, and it is the business of these higher centres
to touch up the photograph, to fill in the lacunas, to select what seem
the more salient and notable features, and to colour the whole with
the emotion appropriate to the situation. It is likely that in most
cases something is added to improve the picture. The result is no
longer a photograph, but a finished work of art, which contains at
once more and less than the photograph— the original sensation.
This process of selection and embellishment may be carried still
, further in the memory, until at last the finished picture may come
to bear no essential resemblance to the original retinal photograph/*
{“ Telepathic Hallucinations," p. 4*)
Z4 T H E V A L U E O F E V ID E N C E
for certain miracles was as good as th a t for the death of
M in s Caesar or an y other well-know n and accepted
historical event. B u t I realise now how his Christian
belief biased his opinion as an historian, and th a t he
would have done better to have answered, ‘ the evidence
for these miracles is quite as good as th a t for an y other
supernatural event recorded in h isto ry ." F or the evi­
dence for any miracle is not as good as that for som e
natural historical event like the death of Julius Caesar,
because an element of im probability is introduced owing
to the fact that within the experience o f " scientific m an
miracles do not occur. One m ore illustration will perhaps
render clearer m y point that there is a great dinerence
between the value of historical evidence about natural
and supernatural events. The Spanish historian tells
us that when Cortes landed in M exico w ith his sm all,
heroic band of followers, he only had 553 soldiers and
ix o sailors to conquer at least 100,000 A ztecs. Y e t we
feel no inherent im possibility in believing th at b y wily
policy com bined w ith heroism he succeeded in conquering
the country, although his chance of success appeared
very sm all at first. B u t when we read th at the Spaniards
were cheered on to victory b y seeing St. Jam es m ounted
on a war-horse at the head of the Christian squadrons,
we feel th at it is m ore probable th at this event had origin
ih 'the Spaniards* imagination rather ^than in f a c t / a s ,.
on the one hand, we know that m an in mediaeval tim es
very com m only believed in the visible presence of heavenly
agents during tim es of stress, and, on the other hand, no
satisfactory evidence o f an analogous phenom enon has
been recorded during the past century, when phenomena
have been subjected at the tim e of their supposed occur­
rence to m ore searching and scientific criticism.
I have just used the word " analogous," which leads
m e to point out the use and abuse of " a n a lo g y ." In a
scientific problem, though a very hopeful line of research
1 Instances of the miraculous appearance of St. James or other
saints are recorded on pp. 136, 392, and 420, of Prescott s History
of the Conquest of Mexico ” {1878 edition). One of the appearances
is described as follows: “ Sinner that I am,” exclaims honest
Bernal Diaz in a more sceptical vein, “ it was not permitted me to
see either the one- or the other of the Apostles on this occasion
(** Hist, de la Conquista,” Cap. 34), to which Prescott adds the
following noté : “ The remark of Bernal Diaz is not to be taken as
Irdnical; "Bis faith in the same vision on subsequent occasions is
expressed without demur. 1In the present case he recognised the
1rider of the greyhorse as a Spanish cavalier, Francisco de Maria, (
THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE 25
may be suggested by analogy, yet if analogy is assumed to
amount to proof, there is very great probability of one's
being led into error. A simple example is the following:
One of the m ost striking phenomena in physiology'
is the fact that excision of the pancreas in a mammal
is followed by a marked and almost immediate excre­
tion of sugar by the kidneys, a condition known as
*
*pancreatic diabetes.” Now, on analogy, it might
be assum ed that the sam e thing would be seen in birds.
A n d, as a m atter of fact, excision of the pancreas does
set up a very similar condition, at any rate in the duck.
B u t the duck's kidney is so far different from the m am ­
malian kidney th at it does not excrete the sugar, which
consequently accum ulates in the blood. Thus, although
the degree of hyperglycsemia (sugar in the blood) after
excision of the pancreas is greater in ducks than in
m am m als, yet, judging from the degree of glucosuria
(sugar in the urine), one m ight think that excision of the
pancreas was not followed b y the sam e disturbance of
sugar-consum ption in ducks as in m am m als.
Here we see that analogy puts one on the right track ;
bu t if one does not know all the facts of the case, one is
apt to be deceived. The value of the analogical m ethod
lies in its suggesting the probable line of findingthe tru th ;
and in problem s where the phenom ena are not capable
of repetition, it is a great aid in deciding the probability
of the truth on other lines than those of scientific proof.
B u t it is m ost im portant to remember that it does not
itself rise to the dignity of scientific proof, and th at it is a
m ethod which, if honestly used, is apt to cut both w ays
in controversy, as it is often not difficult to get analogies
both supporting and controverting the sam e position.
Thus ideas of anthropomorphic gods naturally spring up
am ong savage people on the analogy of human activity,
and, sim ilarly, all believers in a personal God are liable to
attribute to H im man-like qualities. B u t with greater
knowledge we see that on the analogy of a beetle being
cpiite unable to form a conception o f the hum an m ind, so
it is quite as probable that the hum an m ind is unable to
understand the processes whereby m atter originated,
and th a t the whole conception o f creator and created is
vitiated b y the limitations of hum an intellectual capacity, ■
■A nalogy, consequently, is o f bu t little help in discussing
supernatural and, still less, extraterrestrial problems,
where the conditions m ay be totally different from an y -
26 T H E V A L U E O F E V ID E N C E
tiling w ith which wo sxo acquainted^ on earth. This is
well illustrated in the discussion w hich of recent years
has centred round the question of life on the planet Mars
or other planet or star. Popular writers, who are satisfied
th a t the facts of observation are sufficient to prove the
existence of M artians, are apt to write as if language and
distance were the only difficulties in the w ay of com -
munication between the E arth and M ars. E u t, assum ing
the existence of M artians, it is extrem ely unlikely that
the processes of evolution in a different environm ent
would result in the evolution of a vertebrate identical
w ith m an, and, on the other hand, it is possible that living
processes can be associated under unknown conditions
with other than com plex carbon com pounds. Thus, b y a
m istaken use of analogy, we are far too prone to exalt
terrestrial conditions to a universal standard. In short,
analogy is useful b y w ay of illustration, bu t useless as a
means of proof. . .
Under the heading " inaccurate reporting m a y also
be included the errors which arise in the transmission
of a story through fau lty m em ory. I have already
pointed out how necessary it is to have som e independent
test of the accuracy of a rem em bered event in the form
o f a written and dated docum ent.1 A n d in a sim ilar w ay
error is very apt to creep in, if one trusts too m uch to one’s
m em ory in repeating evidence based on other than
personal experience. The im aginary “ T h ey ” is so apt
to be quoted as a reliable authority, when one asks for the
reference or nam e of the witness vouching for the truth of
* som e story of the supernatural. This tendency, in con­
junction with bias, is the great parent of superstition, and
is quite sufficient to account for the spread of any
fabulous idea ; for instance, the fatal properties of the
number thirteen. H ow this particular superstition was
spread b y the biographer of Sir John E verett M illais was
1Mr. lanes showed that in the 702 cases quoted by Gurney,
Myers and Podmore in their book entitled “ Phantasms of the
Living,n there was not a single one “ in which the indefatigable
editors have seen or ascertained a letter or document issued at the
time by the narrator, so as to prove his story to be true,” although
there were more than 20 cases in which documentary evidence
was alleged to have been issued at the time and at least one hundred
cases in which documentary corroboration could reasonably be
demanded. Further, he showed that in nine cases the story was
weakened rather than strengthened by the documentary evidence,
which in these cases had been forthcoming and seen by the editors
' of HPhantasms of the Living.” (See “ where are the Letters ? *
Nineteenth CeniurytVoh XXII», pp. 165**87.)
T H E V A L U E O F E V ID E N C E 37
so well shown up b y a correspondent o f the Spectator»1
th a t I cannot refrain from quoting the facts as a typical
illustration o f m y point.
In A ugust 1885 Sir John E verett Millais was entertain­
ing a house-party at Birnam H all, his Scottish hom e, and
am ong the guests were M atthew Arnold, a M r, Edgar
D awson, a M r, E , S., and. a M iss G. S. One day they
discovered th a t the p arty a t table was exactly thirteen,
at which inform ation Miss G . S. was greatly alarmed,
and exclaim ed in consternation, " I fear that .some
calam ity will happen.”
Before the end of dinner, the conversation drifted
back inevitably to the fatal number, and M atthew
Arnold is said to have exclaim ed : " A nd now, Miss
S., the idea is th at whoever leaves the table first will
die within a year, so, w ith the permission of the ladies,
we will cheat the fates for once. I and these fine strong
lads (pointing to Edgar Dawson and E . S.) will all rise
together, and I think our united constitutions will be
able to withstand the assault of the R eaper.”
M atthew Arnold, according to the story, died six
m onths afterwards, and a little later E , S. was found
in bed, killed b y a revolver, which lay em pty beside
him , In the m eantim e, Edgar Dawson had gone out
to Australia, and after the tw o sudden deaths there
was naturally anxiety as to w hat should happen to
M m within the fatal year.' O n February xSth, 1886,
he left Melbourne in the steam er Quetta, The steam er
w ent down off the coast of New Guinea, and Dawson
was drowned. " A nd now ,” writes the biographer,
" w hat shall be said to these things ? ”
T h at is the fam ous story which the following letter
of a correspondent of the Spectator tears to pieces by
a cold exam ination of the alleged facts.
" The facts ! The party is said to have taken place
in A ugust 1885. Accordingly, Arnold m ust have
died in March 1886, and the Quetta m ust have gone
down about the sam e tim e. E very one knows that
M atthew Arnold died in April 1S88, and I have just
■come across a reference to the wreck of the Quetta,
b y one who lost several relatives in the wreck, as
1 The letter in the Spectator occurs in March 7th, 1908, p. 373,
while the original story of the dinner-party will be found in “ Life
and Letters of Sir John Everett Millais,” by J, G. Millais, V oi IL*
p. 182, (1899 ed„ Methuen.)
28 T H E V A L U E O F E V ID E N C E
1890. What could a serious biographer have been
about when he allowed his memory to trick him into
penning such, a piece of circumstantial nonsense ?
In view of these glaring discrepancies, it is allowable
to discredit the whole story, how ever it m a y have
form ed itself in the writer's m ind. Arnold knew
from about 186S th a t M s life was precarious, and th a t
his end was likely to be very sudden. Is it likely,
that, even in jest, he ever uttered such a speech as is
here put into his m outh ? ”
The writer concludes w ith the observation that,
w ith the real facts before them , m any will n ot willingly
give up the old story of M atthew A rnold and the fatal
num ber thirteen.
The m oral of this incident is the necessity of verifying
all the facts of a story before quoting it b y looking up
the printed records of the facts. A t the sam e tim e, a
warning is necessary to guard against the very general
tendency of regarding anytM ng in print as accurate.
H ow easily error creeps into even a standard publication
was very well illustrated b y another correspondence
which took place in the Daily Graphic in 1905. A s it
is rather a good exam ple o f supposed telepathy, and
illustrates the need for accuracy on the part of the sceptical
critic, I hope the following account will interest the
rea d er:
L etter from L ad y Florence D ixie about the death
of Lord Francis Douglas .in the Daily Graphic, Septem ber
9th, 19 0 5 :
** Si r ,
" I do not pretend to account for the follow­
ing incident, bu t only know and vouch for the fact
th at it took place. W h en I was a very little child, m y
second brother (Lord Francis Douglas), then barely
eighteen years of age, was killed in the first successful
ascent of the M atterhorn. The accident took place
on July 14th, m y m other’s birthday. T h a t night
m y m other and m yself were in London, passing
through it en route for hom e. W e stayed there one
night to break the journey, and m y brother was
'' expected, back early to take part in the festivities
■,, ‘atringe'd in Scotland for the com ing-of-age o f m y
eldest brother Queensberry. ■ 1 ■
'".....'hibther and myself occupied'one room that
THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE 29
night and went to bed early. There was no appre­
hension about my brother in Switzerland. About
10.30 p .m . the door of our bedroom opened, and iny
mother’s maid appeared, Her name' was Emily
Whiting; but we both called her by the pet name of
*B e n g y / whereas my brother Francis always called
her Whiting. She came in and asked my mother
if she had called her, and on being replied to in the
negative retired. About eleven o'clock she returned
again, declaring that her name had been distinctly
called, but was once more sent aw ay. A third time
(it was nearly tw elve o ’clock) she came back, assuring
m y m other th at a voice had called her, and each time
by the name of Whiting. She was certain the
voice was near.
“ Annoyed at this frequent disturbance, m y m other
told her to go back to bed, and not to come again.
Y e t a fourth tim e she reappeared, and this tim e in
a very agitated state. She declared th at she had
had a dream or vision, in which she saw my brother
Francis lying on a rocky ledge on a great precipice,
terribly- wounded. He was dragging himself along*
This dream seemed to startle my mother; but she
tried to soothe the m aid, and got her to go back
to bed. .
1
*A few days later news came of theterrible accident
on the Matterhorn, in which my brother, Mr. Hudson,
Mr. H addow , and Croz, the guide, were killed, Mr.
W h ym p er and two other guides escaping, 'Of The
four killed, Mr. Hudson’s, M r. H addow ’s, and Croz’s
remains were found, but no trace of my brother has
ever been discovered. The incident I have related
is an indelible reminiscence of my childhood. The
accident took place on July 14th, the very day of
that night to which this account refers.
" Yours faithfully,
“ F loren ce D i x i e /*
T his letter led to the publication on Septem ber
13th, 1905, of a letter from J. R , € ., headed, " The
Im portance o f being A ccurate/* I t was as follows :
Sir ,
*
*Lady Florence Dixie says that on the'.occa­
sion of the coincidence which she relates in your issue
/ o f to-day: (x) Her brother, Lord Francis, was
eighteen. (2) She and her mother were on their
3o T H E V A L U E O F E V ID E N C E
w ay to Scotland (apparently) to attend the festivities
in connection w ith the com ing-of-age of her brother.
Lord Queensberry. (3) The events took place on
In ly 14th, 1869. The last date is undoubtedly that
on which Lord Francis D ouglas was killed. But on
that date (1) Lord Francis D ouglas was tw enty-tw o,
not eighteen, having been born on February 8th , 1847.
(2) Lord Queensberry was nearly tw enty-four, having
com e of age on July 20th, 1865.
" N one of L a d y Florence's brothers cam e of age in
1869, and the above facts show th a t several of the
circumstantial details of the story are incorrect.
“ O n the other hand, if the incident happened in
the year when Lord Queensberry cam e of age, Lord
Francis was eighteen; but th at was four years before
the accident on the M atterhorn, and the connection
between the phantom voice and the death of Lord
Francis fails.”
N ex t day (September 14th, 1905) the Daily Graphic
contained an editorial note as follows :
" Lord Archibald Douglas now telegraphs to us
from A n n a n : 4 J. R , C. is m istaken. The date on
which m y brother Francis was killed was July 14th ,
1865/ The late Marquess of Queensberry cam e of
age six days later, and J. R . C .'s criticism is therefore
pointless.”
The correspondence about this particular incident
was closed b y a final letter from J. R . C ., apologising
for his m istake and explaining how it arose. The
letter, published on Septem ber 16th , 1905, was headed
" A n A pology,” and ran as follows :
■ “ Sir ,
" W ill you perm it m e to apologise to L a d y
Florence D ixie ? She did n ot m ention the year in her
letter, and I looked up a Peerage— an old one— to
. verify the dates. T h at Peerage— I have it before m e
as I write— has against the nam e of Lord Francis
Douglas the words, 4 K illed July 14th, 1869, in
descending the M atterhorn.' T h a t date is clearly
wrong, and L a d y Florence's story rem ains unshaken,
and is corroborated b y her details.”
The last point requiring consideration is the character
o f witnesses. I have already pointed out how the
T H E V A L U E O F E V ID E N C E
m
evidence and judgment of trained observers must carry
more weight than those of n o n ex p ert witnesses, so that
in problems dealing with the so-called " physical pheno­
mena ” of spiritualism, a trained conjurer is probably the
best type of witness.1 But apart from training, a certain
weight must be given to moral integrity. In a scientific
case, ju st as much as in a court of law, doubt is apt to
attach itself to the evidence of a known liar. Now , in
connection w ith spiritualism, clairvoyance and spirit-
photography, etc., so many mediums and professional
occultists have been shown up as having no regard for
truth, that the whole class of professional m ediums
is rightly and not unnaturally covered with suspicion.
O n the other hand, the fact that a witness is eminently
respectable and trustw orthy does not guarantee the
accuracy of his evidence.2 Consequently, when various
phenomena are stated to have occurred on the authori­
tative guarantee of observers like Sir W . Crookes, F .R .S .,
the late F . W . Myers, Sir Oliver Lodge, F .R .S ., Professor
Richet, and others, and are quoted as conclusive evidence
in favour of the supernatural— (I shall m yself, in the
next chapter, quote one or tw o instances of " Psychic
Force ” as observed b y m ost trustworthy and eminent
scientific m en)— we m u st always remember that m oral
integrity, important as it is, cannot take the place of
specialised training. A s an exam ple of w hat I m ean,
I cannot do better than quote the case of W . T . Stead,
the well-known journalist, whose integrity is above
suspicion, bu t who has never had, as far as I am aware,
1Conjurers, however, cannot always explain how psychic
phenomena are produced, and may themselves be taken in. Thus
Beilachini, the well-known conjurer at Berlin, made a declaration
before a notary in December, 1877, that he regarded it as impossible
to explain the phenomena associated with the medium Slade by
prestidigitation of any kind. And yet, not only was Slade exposed
by Professor Lankester, but also slate-writing phenomena, even
more wonderful than those of Slade, were produced by an amateur
conjurer, Mr. S. J. Davey, after much practice. For other instances
where conjurers have been ready to believe in *
*psychic or nerve
force,*’ see “ Modem Spiritualism,” Vol. II., p. 204.
* The attitude of Mr. Theobald, author of “ Spirit Workers in
the Home Circle,” towards criticism is typical of spiritualists.
■For after Messrs. Podmore and Hughes, in a series of letters to
Light during 1884, had conclusively proved that he had been the
victim of fraud practi^d by his daughter and cook, he wrote: “ Such
phenomena can never be received until faith in accredited narrators
and reliance on the commonplace integrity of ordinarily reputable
people is adnfitted as one of the canons of scientific attestation.” ,
{See u Modern Spiritualism,” Vol. II., pp. 91-94,}
32 T H E V A L U E O F E V ID E N C E
any adequate scientific training fitting him for under­
taking the difficult problems of psychical research. H is
training has been rather th a t fitting him for successful
journalistic work, in which ability to recognise w hat will
interest the public, rather than to detect the scientific
accuracy of evidence, m ust be developed. N o w , in an
article in the Fortnightly Review, VoL X C L , p. 56, 1909,
entitled " D o the D ead R e tu r n ? ” he gives several
experiences of his ow n, and, am ong others, an account of
how he once paid a visit to a photographer who had the
uncanny power of seeing spirits, and in whose hands even
a photographic plate could be m ade to take an impression
of an unsubstantial shadow from another w orld. ‘ * I had
hardly taken m y seat,” M r. Stead writes, ” before the
old m an said : * I had a great fright the other day. A n
old Boer cam e into the studio carrying a gun. H e fairly
frightened m e, so I said to him ; " G o aw ay. I d on 't
like guns.” A nd he went aw ay. N ow h e's back again.
H e came in w ith you . H e has not go t his gun now , and
he does not look so fierce. Shall we let him stay ? *
‘ B y all m eans,' I replied. * D o you think y o u could get
his p h o to g ra p h ?' ‘ I d on 't know ,' said the man,. ' I
can t r y / ” M r. Stead sat down in front of the cam era,
and an exposure was m ade.1 Before the plate was re­
m oved, the photographer, at M r. Stead's request, asked
the spirit his nam e, or rather the photographer appeared
to put a m ental question and listen for a reply. T hen he
s a id : ” H e says his nam e is P iet B o th a .” M r. Stead
con tin u es: ” W h en he developed the plate, there was
seen standing behind m e a hirsute, tall, stalw art m an, who
m ight have been a Boer or a M oujik. I said nothing, bu t
waited till the war cam e to an end and General B otha
cam e to London. I sent the photograph to him b y M r.
' Fischer, who was Prim e M inister of the old Orange Free
State.” A s a result, a Boer gentlem an of the nam e o f
W essels called on M r. Stead shortly afterwards, and
wanted to know all about the source of th e photograph,
and was alm ost incredulous on hearing Stead’ s story.
The account continues : “ 4W e ll/ I replied, * I have told
you how I got it, and you need n ot believe m e if you
/ d o n 't Tike..' B u t w hy are you so excited ab ou t i t ? 1
1See Appendix A, where the evidence for the genuineness of
•1 spait-phoiogppliy is considered at length. The seventh, chapter
1 #$ the second volume ofFodmore's *
- Modem Spiritualism ” is given
1 %n to the subjectof spirlt^photogtaphy, where the origin and history
o f this branch of Spratuallan is-fully described.
THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE 33
* Why,* said lie (Mr. W essels), ' because that m an was
a near relative of mine. I have got his portrait hanging
up in my house at home,* ' Really/ 1 said. *Is he
dead ? * 'H e was the first Boer Commandant killed
in the siege of Kimberley/ *And what was his name 1 1
* Pietrus Johannes Botha/ he replied, * but we always
called him Piet Botha for short/
I still have the portrait in my possession/* adds Mr*
Stead. “ It has been subsequently identified by two
other Free Staters, who knew Piet Botha well. This at
least is not a case which telepathy can explain. Nor
will the hypothesis of fraud hold water. It was the merest
accident that I asked the photographer to see if the spirit
would give his nam e. No one in England, so far as I
have been able to ascertain, knew that any Piet Botha
ever existed /*
I t is this last statement which I w ant the reader to
notice as typically illustrating how mistaken inferences
or assum ptions are the basis of error in psychical research.
For, as a m atter of fact, a portrait of Pietrus Botha was
given in the weekly Graphic for N ovem ber 4th, 1899,
p. 6 3 1, w ith the following description; “ Portrait of
the late Com m andant B otha, killed near Kim berley,
Com m andant B otha is a Boer General, who was killed
in the engagem ent with Colonel Kekewich*s forces during
the successful sortie from K im b e rle y /'
■ A noth er exam ple of the sam e type of statem ent, based ■
on inadequate proof, is the assertion of the writer of
articles o n " Occultism and Common-Sense ** in the
Westminster Gazette for N ovem ber 21st, 1907, where he is
discussing the clairvoyant powers of Mrs. Piper, that;
u One could quote case after case in the Society's reports;
b u t in all the tim e Mrs. Piper has been under such rigid
scrutiny n o t . one suspicious instance, or one pointing
to normal acquisition of facts, has been discovered/*
Y e t in the sam e article the writer himself reproduces a
letter from Professor Shaler to Professor James— given
b y m e in Chapter IV — in which Professor Shaler mentions
som e " distinctly suspicious features/* and in ad d itio n '
to this there have been several suspicious features about
Mrs. P iper; as, for instance, the fact that when Professor •
Bowditch,. the physiologist, w ent to see her in 1886, he
was told a num ber of facts which applied quite well to ■
D r, Henry I* Bowditch, M s uncle, but not to Mmself*1
/ " * See P m . S .P X * Vol. VIII., p. 7* The genuineness1
of M
rs, ■
Piper is discussed in Chapter IV, 1 ’ •
34 THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE
Thus we see how little weight need be attached to the
statem ent of an upright m an when he guarantees th at
an explanation of fraud is fi im possible.” T h a t word is
the bugbear of psychical literature ; and whenever I
com e across it, it a t once makes m e suspect th at the
writer subconsciously had his doubts and tried to quiet
them b y the use of this word. Thus a “ M anchester
m erchant of high respectability ” writes a letter to the
Echo of June 8th, 18 7 1, describing a séance a t which he
witnessed the sudden appearance on the séance-table of
Mrs. Guppy, “ one of the biggest wom en of London/ 7w ho
pretended to have been brought there under the control of
spirits from her hom e in H ighbury about three miles aw ay
in a little over tw o minutes. The letter ends : “ The
possibility of her being concealed in the room is as absurd
as the idea of her acting in collusion w ith the m edia/ 7
I t is sufficient com m entary on this statem ent to point out
that though the table and sitters were in a locked room ,
there was complete darkness, the séance took place a t
the house of tw o professional m edium s, Messrs. H em e
and W illiam s, and th at Mrs. G uppy herself n ot only
practised physical m edium ship from an early age, ^bu t
also worked w ith the professional m edium s of her tim e,
m any of whom were exposed.1
A n even better exam ple is the account given b y H orace
1 As Miss Nichol, before she married Mr. Guppy, she lived with
Mrs. Sims, the sister of Dr. A. R. Wallace, F.R.S.,, who regarded
some of her phenomena as “ more conclusive than the flotation of
Mr..Home.” And yet, in his description of one séance at which
*
* spirit-flowers ” were produced, we read : *
*I rose up to turn
on the gas, which was down to a blue point, when, just as my
hand was reaching it, the medium who was close to me cried out
and started, saying that something cold and wet was thrown on her
face. This caused her to tremble violently, and I took her hand
to calm her, and it then struck me this was done to prevent me
lighting the gas.” (.Spiritual Magazine, 1867, p. 51.) Podmore
points out that her “ power was stronger the fewer the witnesses,
and strongest of all in an empty room.” He also explains how she
was never actually exposed because of social restraints, and because
any tests that were imposed “ were carried out by persons whose
training and temper would have rendered even better devised
precautions of little value.” (“ Modern Spiritualism,” Vol. II.,
? Williams was exposed with a medium called Rita by spiritualists
at Amsterdam in 1878. On him were found “ a dirty black beard
with brown silk ribbon, and several yards of very dirty muslin—
the simple ingredients which represented the spiritual make-up of
the. repentant pirate John King—together with another bottle of
phosphoxised oil, a bottle of scent, and a few minor properties.”
“ Modem Spiritualism,” Vol. II., p. in .)
T H E V A L U E O F E V ID E N C E 35
Greeley in the New York Tribune (August 1850), of the
phenom ena presented b y the F o x girls, who were more
or less the inventors of the rapping-system at séances,
and who not only were exposed, but also confessed sub­
sequently that they m ade the noises by natural means.
(See ” M odern Spiritualism ,” V ol. I., pp. 184- 185.)
“ Mrs. F o x and her three daughters left our city
yesterday on their return to Rochester after a stay
here of som e weeks, during which they have freely
subjected the m ysterious influence, by which they seem
to be accom panied, to every reasonable test, and to
the keen and critical scrutiny of the hundreds who
have chosen to visit them , or whom they have been
invited to visit. The rooms which they occupied at
the hotel have been repeatedly searched and scruti­
nised ; they have been taken without an hour's notice
into houses they had never before entered. They
have been all unconsciously placed on a glass surface
concealed under the carpet in order to interrupt
electric vibrations ; they have been disrobed b y a
com m ittee of ladies appointed without notice, and
insisting that neither of them should leave the room
until the investigation had been made, etc., etc. ; yet
we believe no one to this m om ent pretends that he has
detected either of them in producing or causing the
rappings;- nor do we think any of their contemners1
has invented a plausible theory to account for the
production of these sounds, nor the singular intelli­
gence which (certainly at times) has seemed to be
manifested through them . . . . W hatever m a y be
the origin or the cause of the rappings, the ladies in
whose presence they occur do not m ake them. W e
tested this thoroughly, and to our entire satisfaction.”
(Quoted in the " Spiritual Philosopher,” V ol. I „ p.
39.)
Similarly, it is equally futile for even eminent psychical
researchers to guarantee the integrity of psychic subjects
or sensitives— a better expression in this connection than
the objectionable word “ m edium .” The Rev. Stainton
M oses, for instance, was a clergyman and M .A . of Oxford,
and for nearly eighteen years English master in U nrversify
College School. Consequently,.references to the p h en o -,
m ena exhibited b y him are repeatedly coupled with some
such com m entary as the following paragraph from
^ Occultism and Com m on-Sense,” p. 216 : " It
36 T H E V A L U E O F E V ID E N C E
conceivable that such a m an as Stainton M oses— a hard­
w i r i n g parish priest and a respected s c h o o lm a ste r-
S m u M deliberately have entered upon a course of trickery
for the mere pleasure of m ystifyin g a sm all circle of
aenuaintances T he whole course of his previous life,
hfe apparently sincere religious feeling, all combine, to
contradict such a supposition. Neither is it ci edible
th a t such a petty swindler would have earned out lus
deceptions to the end and have left behind fresh problems,
the elucidation of which his eyes could never behold.
H ow fallacious such an attitude is m a y be gathered from
the following sum m ary of his seances as given b y Pod-
m ore (“ Modern Spiritualism, V o l. I I., p. 286) .
“ Such in brief were the works of the H ev. V illiam
Stainton Moses. I t rem ains to construct, if we can,
an intelligible conception of the m an. I t seems to
m e clear, as I have tried to show, th a t there is nothing
in the nature of either the physical or the m ental
phenomena described to require th e operation of any
supernormal agency. A n d in default of any sufficient
evidence from other sources th at physical m anifesta­
tions of this kind are ever due to such hypothetical
agencies, it seems reasonable to conclude th a t all the
marvels reported at the séances were, in fact, pro­
duced b y the m edium ’s own hands : th a t it was he
who tilted the table and produced th e raps, th at the
scents, the seed pearls, and th e Parian statuettes were
brought into the room in his pockets ; and th at the
spirit lights were, in fact, nothing m ore than bottles
' o? phosphorised oil. N o r would the feats described
have required an y special skill on the m edium s part.
W ith the exception of the spirit lights— the prepara­
tion of which in the circle as constituted probably
involved little risk— the things done are all such as
tricky children and novices generally have practised
for generations past on their credulous friends. I
doubt if this M oses could have com peted w ith Jaimes
and Jam bres.”
In his " Newer Spiritualism ,” p. 162, Podm ore also
writes : ■ ;
“ It is not m erely possible, then, th at a trance
TPE-rHnm will, when Opportunity serves, avail himself
of anT' normal m eans to achieve the end aim ed a t
, fey fhp;entranced intelligence ; historical precedents
THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE 3?
indicate that it is probable that he will do so. And
the lives of Stainton Moses and X + Y ** Z {the
Rev. C. B, Sanders) show ns that an antoxnatist may
habitually employ what in other circumstances would
be called dishonest methods in order to impress his
friends with a belief in his marvellous powers ; may
all the time escape detection in making the necessary
preparations ; and may thus continue to enjoy, and
possibly to deserve, an unblemished reputation in his
normal life.” 1
So important is the subject that Ï must give some more
examples of the use of the words “ impossible,” ” incon­
ceivable ” and the like. In the next chapter will be
described at some length the experiences of Professor
Richet with a Mademoiselle Marthe B ., in whose presence
the spirit of an Algerian gentleman, named Bien Boa,
was able to materialise; but, strangely enough, his
features were exactly like those of Mademoiselle B.» if
she had attached a coarse moustache to her upper lip.
There are other features of the case strongly suggestive
of fraud, and yet Professor Richet bases his belief in the
phenomena very largely on the fact that " to suppose that
Marthe,#
the daughter of an officer, and the fiancee of the
,General's son, should concert with a negress and a palmist
to practise an odious deception on General and Madame
Noel for twelve months, is absurd. For it could not be
a matter of unconscious fraud, . . , Such a complot
so skilfully carried on would be impossible.” 2 (“ Annals
of Psychical Science,” Vol. IL, p. 234, 1905.) '
1 In Appendix B is given another quotation from Podmore,
showing how easy it was for Moses to escape detection, and de­
scribing an occasion on which he spilt a bottle of phosphorised
oil, which had been masquerading as a “ spirit-lights
2 A particularly painful exposure of a medium called Miss
Showers occurred at the house of Serjeant Cox on April and, %
B
74,
For Miss Showers was the daughter of a general ; but this did not
stop her from collaborating with their servant to mystify her
widowed mother, with whom she was then living at Teignmouth.
From moving tables and performing various practical jokes she
developed into a regular medium, who exhibited materialisations
at her séances, At the séancein question a spirit appeared as usual
in the aperture of the materialisation cabinet, thè curtains Of which
' Serjeant Cox's daughter tried to open wider. In thespirit's struggles
to prevent this, the head-dress fell off and revealed the spirit's
;head as' that' of Miss Showers. Serjeant Cox's own explanation
was that the medium was entranced and, unconscious of hot I'm«
personation of the, spirit. But he could not explain the awkward
-fact that Miss-Showers had introduced into the cabinet some white
3 S T H E V A L U E O F E V ID E N C E
O f an allied nature is the statem ent m ade b y Sk Oliver
T o a ge prefacing his description of som e experim ents m
thought transference with tw o Austrian ladies, of whose
bona flies he was satisfied, although, as he says, they
were ” adepts " at the so-called w ilhng-gam e _ which is
adm ittedly done b y trickery or b y m uscle-readm g.
F or after saving : " Contact seemed essential to the
transfer V ery slight contact was sufficient, for mstance,
ttaough'the backs of the knuckles; bu t directly the hands
w r e separated, even though but a quarter of an inch, the
phenomena ceased— re-appearing again directly contact
was established," and also : “ I t is perfectly obvious how
strongly this dependence on contact suggests the idea.
of a code; and I have to adm it a t once th at this flaw
prevents this series of observations from having any
value as a test case, or as establishing de novo the existence
VdiU; . ............>
> prsrnfirim ents
quoted :
" M v record only appeals to those who on other
grounds have accepted the general possibility of
thought transference, and w ho therefore need not
feel unduly strained when asked to credit m y assertion
th a t unfair practices were extrem ely u n lik ely; ana
th at apart from this m oral conviction, there was a
sufficient am ount of internal evidence derived from the
facts themselves to satisfy m e th a t no code was used,
The internal evidence of which I was thinking was :
(i) the occasionally successful reproduction of nam e­
less drawings; (2) the occasional failure to get any
clue to an object or drawing w ith a perfectly simple
and easily telegraphed n a m e; {3) the speed with
which the guesses were often m ade. ( la e
Survival of M an,” p. 6 1.)
drapery with which to clothe the spirit form. {See “ Modem
Example o f an action apparently without an adequate
motile was furnished by Lady Florence Dixie, when she asserted
that she had been attacked by two ruffians, dressed up as women,
outside a wood near Windsor. The subsequent investigations of
the police led them to believe that she had fabricated the whole
story. This fact should be borne in mind in estimating the value
of the story already given in the text a Pj>pos of the death of
Lord Francis Douglas. (See The Times for March 19th, 1883, p. 6,
arffi for March 30th, p. 9, as well as intermediate numbers.)
THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE
Other exam ples are the testimonies given by scientific
m en to Eusapia Palladino. Thus Podmore says à propos
of sittings she had w ith Sir Oliver Lodge, F. W . Myers,
and Professor Richet a t the latter's house in the île
Roupard in 1894 :
f' D r. H odgson proceeded to analyse the descrip­
tions given of the chief feats, and suggested explana­
tions of som e which had puzzled the investigators at
the tim e. In his view all that had been described
could be accounted for on the assumption that
Eusapia could get a hand or foot free.
“ F. W . H . Myers, Sir O. Lodge, and Professor
R ichet each replied at length to Hodgson's criticisms.
E ach severally mentioned that they were fully aware
of the danger referred to, and that, in fact, though
it had not been thought necessary to m ake continual
statem ents to that effect in the notes, the hands and
feet were so held as to make fraud of the kind sug­
gested impossible. Richet's assertions on this point
were the m ost em phatic, and, as coming from an
investigator who had himself been the first to draw
attention to the unsatisfactory nature of the control
usually permitted, are no doubt entitled to con­
siderable w eig h t,--'H e pointed out that he had
previously attended séances with Eusapia in Milan
and R om e, and that forty séances had been held under
his direction at Carqueiranne and in the île Roupard,
extending over a period of three m onths. . . .
A nd really to im pute negligence on this point to
R ichet and his fellow investigators -would alm ost
seem equivalent to im puting im b ecility/' (** The
New er Spiritu alism /' p. 96.)
Y e t next year a t Cambridge Eusapia was detected in
fraud at M yers's house in the very w ay suggested by
D r. H odgson. A nd Myers, in describing the results of his
sittings, said : " I cannot doubt that we observed m uch
conscious and deliberate fraud of a kind which m ust
have needed long practice to bring it to its present
level of skill. N or can I find any excuse for her fraud
{assuming that such excuse would be valid) in the
attitude of m ind of the persons, several of them dis­
tinguished in the world of science, who assisted in this
inquiry. Their attitude was a fair and open one ; in all
cases they showed patience, and in several cases, the
impression first m ade on their m inds was distinctly _
4o THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE
■fivnnrable W ith growing experience, however, and
c a rX T o b se rv a tio n oî the precise conditions perm itted
or refused to us, the existence of som e fraud becam e clear,
and fraud was attem pted when the tests were as good as
we were allowed to m ake them , quite as m disputably as
on the few occasions when our holding w as intentionally
teft inadequate in order to trace m ore exactly the modus
oberandi. Moreover, the fraud occurred both in the
m edium ’s waking state and during her real or aheged
trance I do not think there is adequate reason to
im n o se that any of the phenom ena at Cam bridge were
g e n u S I " i / o « « « ! S .P .R ., V ol. V I I , p. I33-) ^
* This illustration is now best com pleted b y a further
quotation from Podm ore :
The effect of this experience was to weaken,
though not wholly to destroy, the impression pro­
duced on Myers b y the phenom ena witnessed m the
preceding summer. Sir Oliver Lodge retained his
. conviction unshaken, and so did E ich et aad ttie
Continental investigators. À few years later, after
witnessing som e m ore of Eusapia s performances m
Paris M yers returned to his original allegiance, and
form ally avowed his renewed belief m the super­
norm al character of Eusapia s ^m edium ship.
I“ The Newer Spiritualism, p. 98.)
B u t it m ay be said : " Is no reliance to be placed
on the opinion of scientific authorities ? D o n ot nam es
such as those of Crookes, Lodge, Barrett, and W allace
in England, and abroad of E ichet, Zöllner, M axw ell,
d ’Arsonval, and Lom broso, guarantee accuracy of state­
m ent and a cold, critical, scientific attitude m the investi­
gation of these problems ? ” The answer to this question
fs sufficiently given in the account of a seance w ith
the m edium Florence Cook (when a spirit form called
K atie K ing appeared), which Sir W . Crookes wrote m the
' following words :
« I pass on to a séance held last night at H ackney.
K atie never appeared to greater perfection, and tor
nearly two hours she walked about the room , con­
versing fam iliarly w ith those present. # O n several
occasions she took m y arm when walking, and the
■ - imptessioti 'conveyed' to m y m ind th a t it was a living
wom an b y m y side, instead of a visitor from the other
l.S ee J o u rn a l S .P .Ç ., March 1899, pp. 34, 35. and » letter from
Myras to « ^ 'F e b r u a r y 18th, 1899. ' '
T H E V A L U E O F E V ID E N C E
m
world, was so strong that the temptation to repeat
a certain celebrated experiment became almost
irresistible, [This refers to an occasion on which
.a sitter had embraced a " sp irit/'] Feeling, however,
that if I had not a spirit X had at all events a lady
close to me, I asked her permission to clasp her in my
arms, so as to be able to verify the interesting observa­
tions which a bold experimentalist has recently
somewhat verbosely recorded. Permission was grac­
iously given, and I accordingly did—well, as any
gentlem an would do under the circumstances/'*
Could one w ant a better exam ple of an unscientific
attitude in a scientific investigator ? The fact of the
matter is th at scientific m en, who are accustomed to
accurate laboratory conditions and instruments which
do not lie or give rise to error—at any rate consciously—
are no m atch for the subtle degrees of deception practised
by media like Home, Moses, and Eusapia, Because the
latter appear in their daily intercourse to be reliable,
honest persons, the form er cannot admit of their being
on other occasions the authors of fraud. The soul of
truthfulness themselves, they are quite unaware how
impossible it is to postulate that anything done by that
com plex living mechanism, man, is absurd or m con-
' ceivable.® O n the other hand, they are som ewhat to
1 There is no doubt that at séances on March 29th and May
21st, 1871, the figure of “ Katie ” was not that of the medium Miss
Cook ; but these two séances took place in Miss Cook's own home
in Hackney on her own invitation, in order to afford to Sir W,
Crookes a final proof of materialisation, as up till then, in séances
held at Sir W. Crookes’s house or elsewhere, “ Katie ” had never
indisputably been seen simultaneously with the medium, and in
the photographs of “ Katie ” it had been remarked that there was
an unmistakable likeness to Miss Cook herself. Further, at these
two séances the materialisation cabinet, where Sir W. Crookes saw
two living figures together, was the medium’s own bedroom. It is
also pertinent to point out that Miss Cook was exposed at the begin­
ning of her career by a Mr. William Hipp, and a second time on
December 9th, 1873, by Mr. Volckman (who afterwards married
Mrs. Guppy), and a third time, at the end of her career in January,
1880, when she had become Mrs. Corner.
The rest of Sir W, Crookes’s description of the séance at Hackney
is-given in Appendix C* , * ■
* The reader, interested in knowing of what apparently sane
human beings are capable, should read Podmore’s account of how
the American spiritualist leader, Spear, and Ms disciples constructed
a machine of copper arid zinc, the motive power of which was to be
S indwelling spiritual principle ; and how a respectable married
y endurea pangs-of parturition for two hours,1
followed for some -
42 T H E V A L U E O F E V ID E N C E
Marne when they publish observations» bearing the
imprimatur of their great names and so likely to bias
the public, which do not conform to their own standards
of scientific proof. Thus, Sir W. Crookes showed his
appreciation of the necessity for a record of observations
independent of human fallibility» when he wrote in his
” Researches in Spiritualism ,” p. 6 ;
“ The Spiritualist tells of rooms and houses being
shaken even to injury by superhuman power. The
m an of science merely asks for a pendulum to be
set vibrating when it is in a glass case and supported
on solid masonry.
*‘ The Spiritualist tells of heavy articles of furnitu re
m oving from one room to another w ithout human
agency* But the m an o f science has m ade instru­
m ents which will divide an inch into a million parts,
and he is justified in doubting the accuracy .of the
former observations if the same force is powerless to
move the index of Ms instrument one poor degree.
*
*The Spiritualist tells of flowers with the fresh
dew on them, of fruit, and living objects being
carried through closed windows, and even solid
brick walls. The scientific investigator naturally
asks that an additional weight (if it be only the
■,thousandth part of a grain) be deposited on one pan of
, Ms balance when the case is locked, and the chemist
asks for the thousandth of a grain of arsenic to -be
carried through the sides of a glass tube in which
■pure water is hermetically sealed.”
weeks by a process analogous to that of nursing, by which it was
claimed that the life of the “ new-born child,” the “ physical
Saviour ” of the race, was cherished and sustained. £
“ Modem
Spiritualism,” Vol. I., p. 298.)
On the subject of fraudulent mediums, Podmore makes some
excellent observations, from which I extract the following: “ It
seems not unreasonable to conclude therefore that mediums . ^ .
have certain common characteristics . * . and that all alike, again
in accordance with the spiritualist contention, may be to some extent
unconscious of their actions, and therefore not fully responsible for
them. In modem terminology the medium, whether *physical *or
■4impressiona!»’ Is probably a person of unstable nervous equilibrium,
in whom the control normally exercised by the higher brain-centres
,is liable on slight provocation to be abrogated, leaving the organism,
as In,dream or somnambulism, to the guidance of impulses, which,
in a state of unimpaired consciousness, would have been suppressed
before they could have resulted in action.” (“ Modem Spiritual*
ism,” Vol, II.» p. 76.)
43
THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE
A nd yet these conditions were not fulfilled in his
experiments with Home and a balance, as a result
of which he felt able to announce in the Quarterly
Journal of Science (July xSj i ) that he had^ succeeded
in experimentally demonstrating the existence of
a hitherto unknown force and had measured the
effects produced. On the contrary, as Podmore says,
" we are expressly told that all present guarded Home's
feet and hands. I t is pertinent to point out that a
duty for which the whole company were collectively
responsible, may well at times have been intermitted.
Moreover, Dr. Huggins and M r. Crookes had to watch the
balance also, and Mr. Crookes had to take notes/' In
fact, the defect of these and nearly all psychical experi­
ments is the absence of exactly that element of proof
for which I showed the necessity in the last chapter-—
nam ely, the repetition of experiments under approxi­
m ately identical conditions. For in these sam e experi­
ments with H om e and a balance Sir W . Crookes himself
admits this weakness, when he writes : u T he experi­
ments I have tried have been very numerous, but owing
to our imperfect knowledge of the conditions which
favour or oppose the manifestation oi this force, to the
apparently capricious m anner in which it is exerted, and
to the fact th at M r. H o m e himself is subject to unac­
countable ebbs and hows of the force, it has bu t seldom
happened that a result obtained on one occasion could
be subsequently confirmed and tested with apparatus
specially contrived for the purpose/ ' 1
1 Podmore’s commentary on this case is as follows: u lhe
real significance of this statement is that Home-~~a practised
conjurer, as we are entitled to assume—was in a position to dictate
the conditions of the experiment. By the simple device of doing
nothing when the conditions were unfavourable, he could insure
that the light {gas in the present instance) was such and so placed,
the apparatus, so contrived, and the sitters so disposed, as to suit
his purpose, and that, in the actual experiment, the attention of
the investigators would necessarily be concentrated on the wrong
points/* f* Modem Spiritualism/* Vol. II., p* &
40J However;
in suggesting that Home was a clever trickster, it must be admitted
that he was never exposed, except on a doubtful occasion in 1855
g
m r m l S.P.JR,, July 1889), for which fact Podmore accounts as
Hows; “ Mainly, no doubt, it was due to Home's peculiar position
as a non-professional medium, to the fact that his sitters were, in a
sense, his guests,1and that he himself in effect selected those before
whom he would consent to perform. Again, we cannot exclude,the
possibility that there'Were cases in which imposture was actually
detected by persons who refrained,*out of consideration for the fe$!-
44 THE V A L U E O F EVIDENCE
Tlie clue to the mistakes made by scientific men in
experiments like the above is clearly given by a sentence
m M yers’s report of his experiments with Eusapia,
already Quoted-—nam ely» lt fraud was attempted when
the tests were as good as me were allowed to make them/*
The italics are mine; for these words indicate that where
the conditions of an experiment are dictated, the training
of a conjurer in addition to that of a laboratory experi­
mentalist is required.1 Further, when a number ^of
men take part in a psychical research and are making
observations in common, not only are they likely, as
Podm ore pointed out, to relax their individual vigilance,
but also they create an atmosphere of good faith, and
unconsciously suggest to each other th at they are observ­
ing genuine phenomena, 5 or, as M . Gustave le Bon has
proved with illustrations from the epidemic delusions
of history, a collective hallucination very easily spreads
throughout a crowd, which is always less critical and
more credulous than the average of the individuals
composing it.2 _________ ________ ________ _______ __________
lags Of their friends, or from the fear of ridicule, from making their
discovery public ” {loc. cìt.j Voi. XI., p* 231). The ebb and how of
Home’s' *psychic force * reminds one of Mrs. de Morgan s servant,
lane, of whom we are told that her powers were extremely uncertain,
so that with most persons she failed altogether, although with her
credulous mistress she was generally (successful, # {See brom
Matter to Spirit,” pp. 19-22,5 Podmore sarcastically calls i t 1
“ another instance of exclusiveness ” I ,
1 Perhaps the most interesting aspect of Spiritualism is not so
much the difficulty of explaining the phenomena recorded, as me
credulity of distinguished and clever men. Among Fellows of the
Royal Society, in addition to Wallace, Crookes, and Lodge already
referred to, may be mentioned Major Moor and Dr. Clanny, both 01
whom, in recording psychical phenomena which they had in­
vestigated, almost boast that they took no precautions against
trickery. (See “ Modem Spiritualism,” Voi. I., pp, 39-32.) Lastly*
I must not omit the name of that most distinguishedmathematician,
Professor de Morgan, who pinned Jiis faith on the maxim Now
things which have happened are manifestly possible ; for if they had
been impossible, they would not have happened ” (ra yavépÀva
ore Sward* oò yàp ryivero, cl aòvmra» Aristotle). But
the ©feet of this maxim is rather spoilt when Podmore tells u s‘ in
- the single illustration of the practical working of bis principle which
, he (Professor'de Morgan) allows himself to give, it is unfortunately
' obvious ‘that the homilist has been gulled by a clever adventuress
(Mrs. Hayden) ” (loc. cit., Voi. IX., p. H 5)* See also Appendix D.
•' 1 •* >$«'4 o$»ve Le Boa’s “ Psychologic des, Foules, . Paris, ■
1893. ■
He Ottótas a good illustration of collective hallucmahonm the follow*
ing incident. A French frigate.La Bette Fwfe, was searching ìot a
consort,, when'the, whole crew in, full daylight saw a raft
THE VALUE OF EVIDENCE 45
The conclusions, then, to which we have come in this
chapter are, first; that the only satisfactory type of
witness is one who combines integrity with expert know­
ledge, and who never makes assertions based on mere
assumption and unverified inference; second, that all
assertions should be verifiable by documentary evidence
made, if possible, at the time of the experience; third,
that the respectability neither of the witnesses nor of the
psychic subject of an experiment should influence us to
any great extent, for, to quote G, H . Lewes's words
d firofios of table-turning, “ in the delicate and difficult
question of science paroles d’konneur have a quite in­
appreciable weight. W e m ay, therefore, set aside the
respectability of the witnesses, and, with full confidence
in their integrity, estim ate the real value of their asser­
tions, which am ounts to this : they were n ot conscious
of p u shing." 1
and boats crowded with men. But on approaching the object, it
turned out to be merely some floating branches of trees, ^Other
examples of collective hallucinations are given in “ Modern Spiritual­
ism,” VoI, If., p, 252, and an excellent recent case in “ The Newer
Spiritualism,” pp. 83, 84. The reader interested in the subject
would do well to read articles in the Revue Scieniifiqm, by M. Le
Boa (March 26th, and April 2nd, 1910). In the next chapter will
also be found an excellent example from New Zealand, which I
have quoted to illustrate the mental atmosphere of a table-turning
seance. The narrator of the incident, a cold-blooded, reckless type'
of man, tells how the presence of a crowd of excited and credulous
Maoris made him half ready to give way to belief in the genuineness'
of what he knew to be a piece of imposture.
1a Prolegomena,” § 22, '
CHAPTER HI
SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM, PSYCHIC FORCE, ETC.
I f hum.au evidence in the historical as opposed to the
scientific use of the word were reliable, there could be
no doubt of the truth of a supernatural or psychic force
being accepted as the explanation of some, if not all,
of the phenomena occurring in spiritualism, occultism,
etc. For one could cite the most remarkable occurrences
—quite inexplicable by any known or natural force, if
it be assumed that all the facts and conditions of the case
are known—on the testimony of serious, upright, and
sometimes even distinguished scientific men, whose
evidence in a court of law would be accepted, and rightly
so, as unimpeachable. One of the most striking examples
of this which I have come across is the #following
“ psychic experience recorded by Mr, Serjeant Cox
in his book entitled, 1
4The Mechanism of Man ” (Vol.
I I ., p. 454, 1879 ed.) :
Experiment XIV*
1 ' *
*A t the residence of Mr. Walter Crookes. The
experimentalists present were Mr. Crookes, F.R.S.,
Mr. F. Galton, F.R.S., Mr, Walter Crookes, and myself.
Mr. D. D. Home and two ladies completed the party.
The place was a double drawing-room, separated by
a sideboard and a curtain. The psychic was taken
by us into the smaller room, and being seated in a
chair, Ms wrists were tightly bound with copper
wire, and fastened with wire to the back of the chair.
,His feet were then bound by the ankles in the same
manner to the legs and rungs of the chair, and the
chair itself was fastened by wire to the grate. The1
wires were then soldered at the fastenings with melted
solder, procured by us, and then he was pronounced
by the scientists who had secured Mm to be absolutely
immovable by any human power without cutting all,
thewires. His person thus bound was then enveloped
■ in a dressing-gown, the sleeves of which were sewn
together,, inclosing him as in a sack. Thus was he
,1. placed 'wired to; the fire-grate at the distance of,
46
47
SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM, ETC*
eight feet from the curtain dividing the rooms. He
had no friend nor confederate* He came to the house'
alone, in a cab, wearing the ordinary evening dress.
Having secured the door with lock and seals, and also
sealed the window, to be sure that no aid could come
from without, leaving him in total darkness, we went
into the front room, which was fully lighted with gas,
and seated ourselves before the curtain.
" In four minutes a bell that had been previously
placed upon the table far from the imprisoned psychic
was rung violently. Then a footstool, and then a
chair, and then successively the greater portion of the
movable furniture of the room in which the psychic
sat, were passed through the curtain into our room.
Presently the curtain was partially drawn and
exhibited a man, dressed in the fashion of a sailor,
but whose features resembled exactly those of the
psychic, and whom we all were satisfied was the
psychic. He stood there, leaning over the sideboard,
talking to us for more than half an hour, addressing
each of us by name and freely answering our questions.
He was brisk at repartee. The tone of his voice and
the manner of speaking were the same as all must have
noticed in somnambules, who act with such abnormal
ability whatever character is suggested' to them.;
One instance will suffice. I said: ' Are you sub-*
stanti&i, or only a shape ? * ' I am as solid as you
are/ was the answer. ' Have you blood, and spittle
and sweat ?.f *Yes/ he said, ' will you trust your
finger in my mouth?" ' Certainly." ' Put it in,
then/ He opened his jaws, and I fearlessly thrust
in my finger. The tongue was warm and moist, the
teeth were solid and sharp, for'he gave me a bite
that made me cry out with pain. Having held me
thus for nearly a minute, he let me go, and with a loud
laugh said, *Do you call that psychic force, ser-
jeant ? * I was compelled to acknowledge the
presence of a powerful physical force. Upon the
table in the room where we sat was a large iron ring,
manufactured for us for experimental purposes.
He asked me if I should like to have the ring put
upon my arm. None of us had witnessed this feat.
Is.readily assented. *Give me your hand, then/
He took my, right hand. *Now hand me the ring/
■I gave it to him with my left hand. He pressed it
with some force against my arm, and in an instant
SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
it was hanging upon it. Mow it was done X cannot
even conjecture. Our hands had not parted, at least
consciously to myself. The ring was pressed against
my arm at the upper part near the shoulder. Xt was
a momentary act, done with a touch, Xt was our own
ring of solid iron, half an inch in diameter. Xcarried
it upon my arm hack to the table, and we examined it
to be sure that it was the same ring. We now went
into the other room. The psychic was as we had left
Mm, only in a state of unconsciousness. The wires
were upon all his limbs, uncut, the solder perfect,
the chair bound to the grate, the dressing-gown upon
him. The door was locked, and the seals on door and
window unbroken.”
Xt will be noticed that the phenomena recorded in the
above case are given on the evidence of Sir William
Crookes, F.R.S., the noted chemist; Mr. Galton, F.R.S.,
the well-known authority in the domain of travel and.
ethnology; and, lastly, of Mr. Walter Crookes, and Mr.
Serjeant Cox, both respected, successful men in their
professions. So good, indeed, is the evidence that one
may appear, even to oneself, as unnecessarily sceptical if
one is not convinced of the supernatural nature of the
phenomena. But if we keep prominently before our '
minds the liability a man runs of being deceived in an
ordinary piece of scientific research, and the consequent
necessity of a scientific standard of-truth in research
problems of whatever kind, we shall be inclined to ask
how far the conditions demanded by this standard have
been fulfilled, before we give expression to belief in a
supernatural explanation of the phenomena. The first
point to be discussed is the question whether these wit-
nesses, eminent in their own respective lines of knowledge,
are quite such exceptionally good witnesses for the 1
research in question as at first sight they appear. The
research is one dealing with the operations either of some
supernatural agency or of some tricky and distinctly
material human agent. If the latter, there nan be no
question of the cleverness of the performer, even to ,an,
.extent wMch appears to an ordinary man as quite
impossible and inexplicable. But, then, the ordinary
-rnA
fti^ and even the eminent scientific man, has not the.,
training;' or, experience to make Mm aware of what can v
■bb'perSnmed oy practised conjurers, and finished pro-1
,
"lessors of -4 ^coptfon»,' And it is a remarkable fact, that
PSYCHIC FORCE, ETC. 49
those who have had this training—viz., professional
conjurers, of whom Mr. Maskelyne 1 is an eminent and
distinguished example—-areconspicuously sceptical about
giving a supernatural explanation to the performances of
mediums. Consequently, having no expert training
myself, I should be much more impressed by the evidence
of a professional conjurer than by that of the most
eminent scientific men. And if Mr. Maskelyne in par­
ticular professed himself convinced of the genuineness of
this class of performance, I should say it was contrary
to reasonable common-sense to remain sceptical.
Secondly, the phenomena were produced' under con­
ditions which were, in many respects, unscientific.
The medium was left alone in a darkened room with no
one to observe him. .And astill more important objection
to admitting asupernaturalexplanation of the phenomena
recorded by Mr. Cox is the fact that the phenomena,
constituted asingle experiment, and there Was no attempt
at repetition, although this was not an experiment of such
a nature that repetition was impossible. Therefore,
the most favourable attitude that can rationally be
adopted in this particular case is one of agnosticism,
Thirdly, the consideration that these phenomena took
place through the^co-operation of a medium inclines the
'mind to doubt. For mediums by now have an unenviable
reputation for dishonesty, so often have they been
convicted of deception. As regards Mr. Home, in
particular, it is true that never in the whole course of
his life was he detected or exposed. But Mr, Fodmore,
who, having been secretary of the S.P.R, and joint
author of “ Phantasms of the Living/' was well versed in
these matters, makes it clear in his “ History of Spirit­
ualism " (Vol, II,, bk, iv., cc, 3 and 4) that he has no
doubt that some, if not all, of Home's displays were mere
conjuring tricks, although he admits that Home was
. 1Thisyear (xgxi) Maskelyne and Devant have included in their
performance an itemillustratinghow easily mediums allow
ed the
useof a cabinet, a separateroom, or a curtained recess canescape
from almost any knots which amateur spectators are likely to use
m binding and securing them with ropes. For an account of
Maskelyne's imitations of tiie feats of M
r. Fay andthe Bavenport
Brothers, m -Append« E.
■~ M
jt*'Podmore points out 4 propcs of slate-writing (MModem
Spxntuahsm u Bk. IV., chap.'a) that so skilled w
erethe tricks of ‘
Slade and Bglraton that the only, way of dem
onstrating that
^
S
«i|h
it^of-h
an
a w
as,theprobable explanation w
a
s-for an am
ateur■
..eonjtirer^Mr. S, J. Davey, >y dint of incessant practice,.to equal
SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
50-
aever detected.1 Among other reasons for this opinion,
he emphasises the fact that it was only in the early part
of Ms life, when he was performing before people distinctly •
less scientific and critical than those he convinced in the
latter part of his career, that he produced the phe­
nomenon of tilting up a table covered with black cloth
without the objects placed thereon falling off as the table
approached the vertical. This phenomenon could, of
course, be produced by the simple trick of attaching
black thread to the objects in question and holding them
in place in a darkened room. Such a trick would
obviously be liable to detection before suspicious wit­
nesses; therefore it is easy to understand on tMs
explanation of the phenomenon why Home never repeated
it after the beginning of his career. But if the explana­
tion of the phenomenon were the utilisation of some
psychic force, it is quite unintelligible why Home never
repeated this striking experiment after he had been
taken up by scientific patrons.
LastlyyMr. Serjeant Cox showed himself on some other
occasions a somewhat credulous and uncritical observer,
distinctly biased in favour of the medium, as in the case
6f Miss Showers already referred to, so that we cannot
be certain that his account of the séance records accur­
ately what really occurred, and that the precautions
taken.against fraud were as stringent as he implies,
I have now dealt with one particular instance, the
best one I know, of the supposed operation of psycMc
force, and shown how little reason there is for being
convinced of a supernatural explanation of the phenom­
ena in question. And a similar line of reasoning applies
to all other instances of an allied nature. Therefore
I see no object in discussing this question of psychic
force any more or giving further detailed examples.
or even surpass their feats. In fact, some spiritualists were so
much impressed by Mr* Davey’s consummate art that they in­
sisted he was a medium, and “ that in imputing all his perform­
ances to 4trick * he was deceiving the Society and the public/’
(Letter from Dr, A. R. Wallace, F.R.S., printed in the Journal
SJPJL» March 1891.)
1 Mr. Podmore, in his last book, says : 4
4Under the circum­
stances, it is not to be wondered at that Home was never convicted
of trickery# He could, of course, in Ms capacity as distinguished
guest, not only select his sitters, but appoint their place, at the
.table, and the ladles, 'who were usually chosen to sit on either ’
hand of him,-would' as soon have suspected their own husbands'or,
.sons/’ '! f*The.Newer Spiritualism/*, p* 44*)
PSYCHIC FORCE, ETC. 5*
However before leaving the subject, I should like to say
S ortw o about mediums m general.
* Assuming that mediums, such as Home, are possessed
f enmensvchic force which the vast majority of human
beings only possess in the germ, it is qmte e^ y to under-
that this force might vary in its intensity from
stand . that a professional medium might
tune toJ “ ; d k;mseif unable to perform some expen-
C
O
B
Sf t h S h e would have no difficulty
ment which at other times ^ ,f he considered Ms
reoutSfonat stake, he mijht under these circumstances
1 R___ trifk«rv what at other times he could
bringabout supernaxurauy uy , , , .
w the mere fact that a medium has been detected m
Sorting to conjuring tricks does not theoretically prove
S2^gF5ffSia?S=iSS
baadSStted that a force which was capable of depressing a balance,
ria v i^ an accordion, distributing flowers and unscr^m g the
S n o w °f an Oriental idol, might c o n c e iva b lyb e ^
a slenderly built man round the room. But it is a UtUe mmcwt
ttimnose that the same force could stretch his bodily frame to
the e K t of a foot orso, or could render not only his own skin
ni Hie ptpcted witnesses immune alike to the pain and to
?he p h y s i^ le le c k o lli^ in fif we add alltoeother phenomena
vouched for by competent witnesses, including Sm W* Crookes
SSflursH= rS*HHS
alSsrii«s mkm a s
things were done, ana we w w because we cannot
1 n^Sstand^some of the feats, therefore they m
ust
du# to: spirits, or psychic force, is m
erely an dpiate for the
'.’uheasim
»» of suspended judgm
ent; a refuge from the troub
’ef;|hittM
iig.,#•
f-*TheH
ew
erSpiritualism, pp. So,St, and86.) ^^
, ’ \ C :
52 SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
that lie has never possessed psychic force. But, note I
this is only a theoretical argument. I have given it,
as I believe it blinds the minds of some quite acute people
to the practical question, “ What proof is there that
psychic force exists at all? ” As I have shown, there
is no convincing proof. And now when we do not assume
the existence of psychic force, the mere fact that reputed
possessors of it have repeatedly been exposed resorting
to trickery 1 at once lends probability to the suggestion
th a t all their performances m a y be explained b y conjuring
tricks and not b y psychic force.
A very good case in point is th a t of Archdeacon Colley,
who quite genuinely believed in the spiritualistic nature
of the appearances produced b y a m edium named
M onck, although the said m edium had been detected in
fraud the year before and sentenced in a court of law
(October, 1876) to three m onths’ im prisonm ent as a rogue
and vagabond.
1 A complete list of media who have been exposed since
1850 might include almost a hundred names; but in default of
that, a reference to the following well-known,media will show
the reader how common exposure has been. The numbers
after the names refer to the pages in “ Modem Spiritualism,”
Vol. II., where the respective exposures are described: Messrs.
Bly, Colchester, and Foster (52); the Davenport Brothers {60};
Mrs. Fay (84); “ Dr.” Slade (89); Florence Cook (ro$ and 157);
Miss Showers (104); M. Firman (106); Messrs. Bastian and
Taylor (107); Miss Wood {108); Williams and Rita (in );
Hudson (118}; M. Buguet (121); Madame Blavatsky (175);
Eglinton (206); Eusapia Palladino (202). In addition, the
exposures of Monck and the Fox girls have already been referred
to in the text.
Huxley’s remarks on media are worth recalling here: “ They
(the believers in Spiritualism} freely admit that not only the media,
but the spirits whom they summon, are sadly apt to lose sight of
the elementary principles of right and wrong; and they trium­
phantly ask, How does the occurrence of occasional impostures
disprove the genuine manifestations (that is to say, all those
which have not yet been proved to be impostures or delusions) ?
And in this they unconsciously plagiarise from the churchman,
who just as freely admits that many ecclesiastical miracles may
have been forged, and asks with calm contempt, not only of legal
proofs, but of common-sense probability, *Why does it follow
that none are to be supposed genuine ? * I must say, however,
that the spiritualists, so far as I know, do not venture to outrage
right reason so boldly as the ecclesiastics. They do not sneer
,at■
’*
-evidence/ nor repudiate the requirement of legal proof.
'In <
fact,. there can be no doubt that the spiritualists,produce
"better evidence for their manifestations than ,can be shown either
for the miraculous death of A
ldus or for the Invention of the
'-Cross/* {“ Essays/* VoL V** p. 341») ' 1
PSYCHIC FORCE, ETC. 53
go much reverence had the Archdeacon for the " super­
natural powers ” of this gentleman, that he had no
hesitation in living with him on the most intimate terms,
in fact sharing his bedroom.x
That trickery is the explanation of “ physical phenom­
ena n is even better illustrated by the career of Eusapia
Palladino, the most famous of all the mediums exhibiting
psychic forcedu rin g the last twenty years. She
was bom and bred in the slums of Naples and was married
in early life to a travelling conjuror. It was in the year
1892 at Milan that she was first investigated, and since
then she has been continuously quoted as the possessor
§
ar excellence of genuine psychic force. For she has
een conspicuously fortunate in still retaining the faith
of many eminent scientific men—of Professor Lombroso
in particular—in spite of several exposures, those best
known to me being that which occurred at Cambridge
1D
uringApril 1
9
06 there w
as acontroversy uponSpiritualism
in The Daily Telegraph. O
ne of the letters contained the state­
m
ent that " the late Rev, H
, R. Haweis, writing in the press,
stated that before a Com
m
ittee of the Society for Psychical
,Research, M
r. M
askelyne, on beingasked as to w
hetherhe could
reproduce the phenom
ena (said to be exhibited by certain sensi­
tives) in a private room
, replied in the negative, adding that it
w
ould require three tons of m
achinery for' the purposed1 M
r.
Maskelyne w
rote a letter to refute this off-repeated lie, pointing
out that hepossessed a letter fromthe Rev. H. R, Haweis him
­
self, apologising for the falsehood. This refutation greatly
annoyed certain spiritualists, and then Archdeacon Colley—
who
had w
ritten a pam
phlet to prove the probability of Christ's
resurrection,citingcertainexperiencesofM
sow
nw
iththem
edium
Monck in support of the supernatural—responded in a public and
controversial w
ay, challenging M
askelyae to reproduce the sam
e
phenom
ena as those of M
onck, and offering to pay £1000 if he
could dp so 4
1any way, anyw
here, at any tim
e# as1
a conjurer."
This ’lea M
r. Maskelyne tto include in his entertainm
ent, at St,
George's H
allanitemillustratinghoweasyit w
as to1
produce the
appearance of .a m
aterialised spirit1
com
ing out of a m
edium
’s
body. Also he explained the raison d’Stre of theitemin alittle
speech in w
hich he threw doubt on the question w
hether M
r.
Colley had any right to the title of Archdeacon, This led to a
libel action, in which the Archdeaconw
on sm
all dam
ageson the
technical ground that he undoubtedly had the right to use the
title of Archdeacon; but the facts revealed at the trial of the
pastcareerof them
ediumM
onckandofhisrelationsw
ithM
r,Colley1
substantiated all that M
r. M
askelyne had said about the Arch­
deacon's w
ant of critical intelligence. A full account of the trial
'and of the evidence, illustrating in a m
ost instructive way the
m
eth
ods-;of' spiritualists, w
as given in The Times of April 25th,
,26th,;27th,' 30th, and M
ay rst, 1907, extracts fromw
hich I have
reproduced"in Appendix F
54 SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
in 1895 during the sittings with Professor Sidgwick, Mr*
F . W , Myers and Dr. Hodgson {Journal S .P .IL , VoL
VII., p. 133), and the one at Hew York during sittings
with Professor Miinsterberg in December 1909A After
the Cambridge exposure the Council of the S .P .R .
recognised that she was not a trustworthy subject for
experimenting with, and consequently she was not
investigated again in England. But during the next
twelve years so successfully did she impose on numerous
foreign investigators that in the autumn of 1908 the S.P.R.
w as induced to send out a Commission consisting of three
of its members who possessed some knowledge of con­
juring, to further test her claims to supernatural powers.
T he sittings were held in Naples a t the hotel where the
Commissioners were staying, and E usapia was tested with
apparent scientific precautions. In the end they reported
that they were satisfied she possessed genuine psychic
powers, although they obtained striking phenomena only
when the illumination of the room had been reduced to
a m inim um . (Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXIII., November
1909.) One of the Commissioners, Mr. Hereward Carring­
ton , was so much impressed that he acted more or less as
her entrepreneur in a tour she shortly afterwards made to
America, Unfortunately for him and her, she was
investigated in Hew York by Professor Miinsterberg with
real scientific accuracy, which does not limit itself to,
so-called gentlemanly behaviour. For a man, concealed '
by Professor Miinsterberg in the tent-like alcove behind
Eusapia, caught hold in the middle of the séance of a
foot which -was picking up objects out of the alcove, and
which turned out to be attached to Eusapia, although
both her feet were supposed to be securely controlled
at the time by intelligent observers. At another séance
two additional observers were introduced into the room
while Eusapia’s attention was distracted for a moment,
1The whole subject of Eusapia is m
ost luminously treated by
Podmore in bis 4
1N
ew
er Spiritualism” (cc. 3 and 4}, For a
shorter account dealing w
ith other fraudulent m
odern mediums,
' as well as Eusapia, the reader is referred to an article by the
conjurer» M
r. W
illiam M
arriott, in the M
ay num
ber of Pearson's
M 4gammf 1910, w
hereon p. 508—after describinghowa m
edium.
called Baileyw
asbroughtoverbyProfessorReichel from
’A
ustralia
to Europeat considerableexpense—
he sayst. u Yet inthefaceof
' this fiasco—
*w
hich,had cost himat least £200—Professor Reichel,
tarifes to Baileyî *Your deceptivemode of,proceedingis all the
ihorérepugnant, as I amfully convinced that you are"capable•
.
of :
producing genuine phenomena.* *
* ' 1 1 '
55
PSYCHIC FORCE, ETC.
and so they were able to lie on the floor with their eyes
only a few inches away from her feet and see exactly
her method of freeing "a foot from the control of the
observers sitting each side of her. , , , t ,
1 now pass on to a class of phenomena included under
Spiritualism which do not necessarily need the inter­
vention of a medium, and of which table-turning is#
a
well-known and popular example* Table-turning in
amateur circles is done in various ways, among which I
select for description the following method. As soon
as the table is under the influence of the circle, who have
their fingers—usually in contact with one another—
stretched" round the edge of the table, it begins to gyrate,
apparently automatically. Questions are then put to
the supposed spirit operating the table, and an answer
is obtained by the rather tedious method of spelling
through the alphabet and noting the letter at which
the table tilts. In this way the answer is spelt out
letter by letter. Now the conditions for success are
chiely three: (u) that there should be no one taking
part who is profoundly sceptical; (5 ) that some one
should be a convinced believer in the spiritual explana­
tion *
* of table-turning, usually of a neurotic tempera­
ment; (c) that the performance should be carried out
in a dim light. These are just the conditions for inducing
a state of auto-suggestion or hypnotism. #
' After a few or many minutes of sitting with out­
stretched fingers, one or more of the sitters will become
the subject of fatigue of the neuro-muscular system,
encouraged by the expectancy of phenomena and by the
concentration of attention not to miss the moment
the table begins to move. _This fatigue leads to a certain
degree of tremor in the hands, and probably evinces itself
first in those who are the most intense believers, especially
. if they are of a neurotic temperament—that is, have a
’/nervous system easily excited and depressed. As the
‘finger-tips are fixed by contact with the table, the tremor
gives the'feeling that the table is vibrating, and in the
belief that it, is about to move the enthusiasts quite
subconsciously push the table. The moment the table
, moves’ever-so little, the whole company, including the
least enthusiastic, become the subjeefs of a process of
n tii+ 'A iiH /V v rJQ O .IA ltfflv
lie win not be the victim of this auto-hypnotic process,
and by not doing Ms share of the pushing or by with-
SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
56
standing the tendency of the table to move, which is
very slight at first, he will defeat the action of the others.
Theoretically it is possible that spirits are the operating ■
agency, as it is a matter which can hardly be subjected
to scientific proof; but as the natural explanation which
I have given, depending on the tendency of the nervous
system to develop “ automatism ” under conditions
tending to foster auto-suggestion, is most probable, there
is no reason for seeking a supernatural explanation.1
I had some experience of table-turning in conjunction
with three or four friends when I was an undergraduate
at college, all of us being young and inexperienced and
half inclined to believe in a spiritual agency. Being
myself of rather a “ suggestible ,J temperament, I had no
difficultv in getting the table to move. But in thinking
the matter over afterwards I had little doubt but that I
pushed the table and in a similar way quite unconsciously
did my part in making the table tilt at the letter, which
sometimes I was more or less expecting. In fact, I and
my friends were the unconscious victims of a suggestive
atmosphere, and I cannot illustrate what I mean by this
term better than by quoting the account given by the'
author of “ Old New Zealand of a spirit-raising per­
formance witnessed by himself among the Maoris (p. 122);
" These priests or tohunga would and do to this
hour undertake to call up the spirit of any dead
person, if paid for the same. I have seen many of
these exhibitions, but one instance will suffice as an
example. A young chief, who had been very popular
and greatly respected in the tribe, had been killed
in battle; and at the request of several of his nearest
''""'""friends""the'tohunga"had' promised ■■on-'-axertain^night"-
to call up his spirit to speak to them and answer
certain questions they wished to put. The priest
\ was to come to the village of the relations and the
interview was to take place in a large house common
to all the population. This young man had been a
great friend of mine; and so the day before the event
1 I feel that it is almost superfluous to give this natural explana­
tion of table-turning, since the phenomenon was analysed in such
a masterly maimer by G. H. Lewes {** Prolegomena,” § 22}, who con­
clusively showed that there was no reason for seeking a super­
natural explanation. Also the reader will doubtless remember the
weil-knpwa contribution of Professor Faraday to the subject,
when he devised a piece of apparatus which showed that sitters
could; quite unconsciously push the table. ,' ■
57
PSYCHIC FORCE, ETC.
I was sent to by Ms relatives and told thatun oppor­
tunity offered of conversing with my friend once more.
I was not much inclined to bear a part in sitcli out­
rageous mummery, but cariosity caused me to go. Now
it is necessary to remark that this young chieftain was
a man in advance of his times and people in many
respects. He was the first of Ms tribe who could
read and write; and amongst other unusual things
for a native to do he kept a register of deaths and
births and a journal of any remarkable events which
happened in the tribe. Now this book was lost.
No one could find it, although his friends had searched
unceasingly for it, as it contained xpany matters of
interest and also they wished to preserve it for his
sake, I also wished to get it and had often inquired
if it had been found, but had always been answered in
the negative. Hie appointed time came, and at night
we all met the priest in the large house I have men­
tioned. Fires were lit, which gave an uncertain, flicker­
ing light. The priest retired to the darkest comer.
All was expectation, and the silence was only broken
by the sobbing of the sister and other female relations
of the dead man, They seemed to be and indeed
were in an agony of excitement, agitation, and grief.
Tills state of things continued for a long time, and 1
began .to.feel In a way surprising to myself, as if there
were'something real in the matter. The heart-breaking
sobs “of the women and the grave, solemn silence of
the men convinced me that to them at least this was
a serious matter. I saw the brother of the dead man
now and then wiping the tears in silence from his eyes.
I wished I had not come, for I felt that any uninten­
tional symptoms of incredulity on my part would
shock and hurt the feelings of my friends extremely;
and yet, whilst feeling thus, I felt myself more and
more near to believing in the deception about to .be
practised. The real grief and also the general un­
doubting faith in all around me had this ©Sect. We
were all seated on the rush-strewn door, about thirty
persons. The door was shut, the fire had burnt down,
leaving nothing but glowing charcoal, The room
was oppressively hot, the light was little better than
'darkness, and the part of the room' in which the
!tohtmga sat was now, in perfect darkness, Suddenly
.without the slightest warning a .voice came out of
.the darkness : ’ Y Salutation! Salutation to you;all I
SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
Salutation, salutation to you my tribe! Family,
I salute you ! Friends, I salute you 1 Friend, my
pakeha friend, I salute you 1* The high-handed,
daring imposture was successful; our feelings were
taken by storm. A cry expressive of affection and
despair, such as was not good to hear, came from the
sister of the dead chief, a fine, stately and really
handsome woman of about twenty-five. She was
rushing with both arms extended into the dark in
the direction from whence the voice came. She was
instantly seized round the waist, and restrained by
her brother by main force till moaning and panting
she lay still *on the ground. At the same instant
another female voice was heard from a young girl
who was held by the wrists by two young men, her
brothers: ‘ Is it you ? Is it you ? Truly is it
you ? A u e! Aue i They hold me, they restrain
me, wonder not that I have not followed you, they
restrain me, they watch me, but I go to you. The
sun shall not rise, the sun shall not rise, aue ! aue! *
'
Here she fell insensible on the rush floor and with the
sister was carried out. The remaining women were
all weeping and exclaiming, but were silenced by the
men, who were themselves nearly as much excited,
though not so clamorous. I, however, did notice
that two old men, who sat close to me, were not in the
slightest degree moved in any way, though they did
not seem at all incredulous, but quite the contrary.
The spirit spoke again: *Speak to me, the tribe I
Speak to me, the family i Speak to me, the pakeha! '
The pakeha, however, was not at the moment inclined
for conversation. The deep distress of the two
women, the evident belief of all around him of the
presence of the spirit, *the darkness visible/ the
novelty of the scene, gave rise to a state of feeling
not favourable to the conversational powers. Besides
I felt reluctance to give too much apparent credence
to aa imposture which at tire very same time I felt
half ready to give way to.
•; ,“ At last the brother spoke : *How is it with you ?
Is it well with you in that country ? * The answer
voice all through, it is to be remembered,
w as'not'the voice of the tohunga, but a strange,
1melancholy sound like the sound of the wind blowing
'intp,'a,hbIow.vessel)— It is well with me, my place
’ is a;good;place/ T hp‘brother spoke again ; Have
59
PSYCHIC FORCE, ETC.
you seen------- and —— ? * (I forget the names men­
tioned.) 1Yes, they are all with m e/ A woman's
voice now from another part of the room anxiously
cried o u t; 1Have you seen my sister? * *Yes, I
have seen her/ *Tell her my love is great towards
her, and never will cease/ *Yes, I will tell her.
Here the woman burst into tears and the pakeha
felt a strange swelling of the chesty which he could
in no way account for. The spirit spoke again :
f Give my large tame pig to the priest (the pakeha
was disenchanted at once), and my double gun/
Here the brother interrupted : ‘ Your gun is a
mamatunga, I shall keep it / He is aJso disenchanted,
thought I. But I was mistaken. He believed,
but wished to keep the gun his brother had carried
so long. An idea now struck me that 1 could expose
the imposture without palpable disbelief. f We cannot
find your book/ said I. *Where have you concealed
it ? * The answer instantly came ; 1I concealed it
between the tahuhu of my house and the thatch,
straight over you as you go in at the door/ Here
the brother rushed ou t; all was silence till his return*
■In five minutes he came back with the book in' Ms 1
hand. 1was beaten, but made another effort. *What
have you written in that book? * said I. *A great
many things/ *Tell me some of them/ 1Which
of them ? 1 *Any of them / *You are seeking for
some information. What do you want to know ?
I will tell you / Then suddenly ; *Farewell, O tribe 1
Farewell, my family, I go I * Here a general and
impulsive cry of farewell arose from every one in the
house. *Farewell! * again cried the spirit from deep
beneath the ground. *Farewell I * again from high
■in the air. *Farewell i * once more came moaning
through the distant 'darkness of the night, *Fare-
well! * I was for a moment stunned, ^ The deception
was perfect. There was a dead silence—at last*
*A ventriloquist/ said I , #or—or perhaps the devil*5
,, *
* l was fagged and confused* - It was past mid­
night ; the company broke up and l went to a house
where a bed had been prepared for me. 1 wished to
be quiet and alone; but it was fated there should be
little quiet that night, I was just falling asleep, after
having thought for some time on the extraordinary,
scenes I'had witnessed, when I heard the report of a
M usket'at ,serge little distance, followed by ■-the
do SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
shouting of men and the screams of women. Out I
rushed; I had the presentiment of some horrible
catastrophe. Men were running by hastily armed.
I could get no information, so went with the stream,
There was bright flame beginning to spring up at a
short distance, and every one appeared to be going ia
that direction. I was soon there. A house had been
set on fire to make a light. Before another house,
close at hand, a dense circle of human beings was
formed. I pushed my way through; and there saw
by the bright light of the flaming house a scene which
is still fresh before me : there in the verandah of the
house was anpld grey-bearded man; he knelt upon one
knee, and on the other he supported the dead body of
the young girl, who had said she would follow the spirit
to spirit-land. The delicate-looking body from the
waist upwards was bare and bloody, the old man's
right arm was under her neck, the lower part of his
long grey beard was dabbled with blood, his left hand
was twisting his matted hair. He did not weep, he
howled, and the sound was that of a heathen despair,
knowing no hope. The young girl had secretly
procured a loaded musket, tied a loop for her foot to
the trigger,.placed the muzzle to her tender breast,
and blown herself to shatters. And the old man was
her father and a tohunga. A calm, low voice now
spoke close beside me : ‘ She has followed her Ran-»
gatira/ it said. I looked round and saw the famous
tohunga of the night."
In this account it will be observed that the conditions
were just those calculated to counteract a spirit of calm
scientific inquiry—viz,, the presence of a company of
already convinced believing enthusiasts expressing their
emotions by groans and other cries, little or no light,
suffocating heat, etc. And there is no question #that
similar conditions, if less pronounced, are present in all
cases of successful occultism. Therefore, I will not stop
,here to inquire in detail into the claims of other occultists
that their performances are to be regarded as evidence of
a supernatural agency, and to any one inclined to believe
in Madame Blavatsky, in particular, I would recommend
a book called, " Isis Very Much Unveiled," by Edmund
Garrett, where the author gives an account of the tricks
■
by which she imposed upon her dupes, and proves clearly, (
,on1evidence which has. never.been refuted, that-she was
6ï
PSYCHIC FORCE, ETC,
an impostor, deliberately supporting tier claims to
supernatural powers by tricks and deceptions carefully
planned, and carried out in collusion with others.1
I have heard some common-sense people argue before
now that, though a natural explanation of some pheno­
menon was the more probable, yet the result was so
striking, and had led to such remarkable consequences,
that they were still believers in its being a question of
supernatural guidance. This, of course, is an absolutely
unscientific or unreasonable argument, as belief in a
spiritual agency is quite sufficient to lead human beings
into doing the most extraordinary actions, as illustrated
by the lives of religious fanatics, and in the above tragic
story bv the suicide of the Maori girl.
Allied to belief in the spiritualistic explanation of
table-turning is belief in the spiritualistic ^source of
messages received by means of “ planchette *' or auto­
matic writing. The natural explanation of these pheno­
mena is also very similar— namely, a neurotic tempera­
ment and a state of auto-suggestion— and in the case of
automatic writing there is undoubtedly a special genius
for this type of performance, as authentic records exist
of subjects writing independent messages with both hands
at once, showing that the two halves o f,the brain are
working independently, which at first sight may suggest
to readers who are not trained in psychology or physio­
logy that spiritual agencies are the operating forces.2
i Mr, Hodgson was sent out by the Society foe Psychical
Research in 1885 to India specially to investigate the phenomena
and claims associated with the name of Madame Blavatsky, He
made a report (Proc. S.PJL Pt. IX., December 1885}, indicating
that she was only a common impostor. After her death, her
associates fell out over the question of who should be President of
the Theosopbical Society, and made charges against each other,
giving the whole ushow *
* away. A most amusing and^ clever
account of all these facts was written by Edmund Garrett in 1894
in a small book entitled “ Isis Very Much Unveiled *
* (Westminster
Gazette Library). ■ „, t
* One of the most interesting tests to which automatic writing
has ever been put was the occasion on which the message, received
through the automatic writing of Mrs. Verrall and believed by
her to have come from the late F. W. Myers, was compared
with a message written by Mr. Myers nearly fourteen years before,
and given by him’ in a sealed envelope to his friend Professor
Oliver Lodge, who had kept it securely ever since. The two
messages were compared at a special meeting of the S.P.K» (see
Jmtmh VoL XIL, p. January 1905}» and to the disappoint­
ment of:many,were totally dissimilar, giving no support to a
telepathic explanation of automatic writing. , \* ,,,
'■ In support of dhe view- that automatic writing and planchette
62 SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
This, of course, cannot be disproved, and in the next
chapter I shall discuss, in connection with " telepathy/'
what can be said in favour of the supernatural explana­
tion. But there 'is nothing improbable or difficult to
understand in the natural explanation.
The last subject to be dealt with in this chapter is
that of ghosts and materialised spirits. The word
“ ghost/; as popularly used, has rather a vague con­
notation. It connotes, on the one hand, a being that can
grip you by the throat going downstairs, and, on the other
hand, an object which melts away as you walk into it.
But, as a result of the investigations of the Society for
Psychical Research during the last thirty years—-in which
time it has not been able to substantiate one single ghost-
story of the old-fashioned type— it is recognised now that
an explanation of “ sensory hallucination ” must be given
in all these cases {see Podmore’s “ Telepathic Hallucina­
tions ; the New View of Ghosts ” ). What is the cause
of these sensory hallucinations is another matter, and it
is bound up with the question of telepathy, a subject to be
discussed in the next chapter.
Passing now from the subject of old-fashioned ghosts
to that of modern ghosts or materialised spirits, which i
possess the attributes of matter, such as the power to l
reflect light and affect a photographic plate,1 one feels
writing are the result of subconscious natural processes, I can
quote an interesting experience of a friend of mine, who was most
successful in writing with planchette. He was at Trinity College,
Cambridge, in 1903, and one day he was unable to remember the
first line of a piece of poetry which he had previously learnt by
heart and knew quite well, being able to recall it all but the first
line. He then thought of experimenting with planchette to see if
It would write out the forgotten line. This it did with complete
success, indicating in this particular instance, at any rate* the
subconscious and natural nature of “ planchette writing."
1 A committee, formed under the auspices of the Daily Mail,
investigated the subject of spirit-photography in 1909, “ Three
spiritualists and three expert photographers formed the committee.
The three spiritualists reported that the photographers were not
$a, a proper frame of mind to succeed in obtaining ‘ spirit-
photographs,* The photographers announced that no scrap of
testimony was put before them to show that 4spirit-photo­
graphy * was possible. But they went further, and herein lies
the feature of, this particular investigation. They invited1
‘the
' .submission to them of spirit-photographs, and having examined
' toese critically, they report tttqt not Only did they not testify
‘.to fM r supernatural production, but that they bore oh the face
Of fheto clteram&tfmiial evidence of the way in which They had,
;pm x produced;; in other words, that the prints were not mysteries.
PSYCHIC FORCE, ETC. 6$
o n surer ground in asking for scientific proof before admit­
ting a supernatural explanation. As none of the recorded
instances that I have come across ever fulfils the con­
ditions demanded by a scientific standard of truth, I have
no hesitation in giving an explanation of fraud to all such
appearances, as they are, on the one hand,entirely against
probability, and, on the other hand, always necessitate
the intervention of a medium. At the same time, this
class of case is of great interest, in that exactly the same
evidence is often given by enthusiastic believers in proof
of a supernatural agency as is sufficient to prove to me
that a very material agent has been at work, For instance,
in the case of Archdeacon Colley versus Maskelyne,
already quoted, it came out that one of the experiences
which convinced the Archdeacon of tire medium's super­
natural powers was the following ; He saw a spirit-form
evolve out of the medium's side and advance towards
himself. He was then allowed to seize hold of, the spirit;
and although he found he had hold of a piece of muslin
wrapped round the medium's body, yet he still continued
to believe (and, perhaps, to this day believes) that a
genuine materialised spirit had entered the mediums
body*
Again, it is a curious fact how even distinguished
scientific men may sometimes be so much the subjects
of bias that their standard of truth can be <piite different
in researches of this nature from what it is in problems
of so-called -" natural science/1 For instance, the dis­
tinguished French physiologist, Rickety is reported to
have given in an interview his own personal experience
as proof of the materialisation of spirits.1
He was the guest in Algeria of General and Madame
Noel, who apparently for a year or morehad been develop-
but self-revealed fakes/* (The rest of this ^
quotation from an
article in the supplement to The Weekly Timest of June asta»
iodo, is too long to reproduce here, but is given in Appendix A*}
The whole subject of spirit-photography is also most concisely
and convincingly treated by Mr. William Marriott in the August
■number of Pearson's Magazine, 1:910, where it is shown that by
trickery spirit-photographs can be produced under * test condi­
tions/’ that is, in an apparently inexplicable way to the ordinary
man, who is not a' conjurer. The article is illustrated with
' is given in the December
number of, the Pall MaU Magazine, 1906. See also Annals of
Psychical Science/'* Vol. II* p, 207,, October 1906, where Professor
Richel describes in detail his experiences at the Villa Carmen with
the medium Mademoiselle Marthe B.
64 SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
lag belief in the mediumistic powers of Mlle. Martlie B.
but recently the fiancée of their son, deceased in the
Congo. The séances took place at their residence, the
Villa Carmen, in August and September 19 0 5 . Mile.
Marthe B., with the help of a negress servant and a
materialisation alcove (a comer of the room curtained
off) into which they both retired, produced what pur­
ported to'be the materialised spirit of an Arab, " Bien
Boa ” by name. Professor Richet asked the spirit to
blow through a tube into a glass of fluid which was
standing on a table. M. Bien Boa most obligingly and
guilelessly did so. The fluid turned cloudy. Now, as
the fluid was baryta-water, and the cloudiness was due
to a precipitate of carbonate of barium, it is satisfactorv
evidence that carbonic acid came from the spirit, and
one could not have a better proof than this of its material
nature. But, whereas this affords conclusive evidence
to Professor Richet’s mind—as well as to mine—of the
material nature of the spirit, it raises no doubt in his
mind of the spiritual nature of the matter 1 Is not this
an excellent example of belief warped by bias and of
experiment done without scientific precautions, such as
control experiments, for arriving at the truth ? For I
am sure that any one who has seen what Maskelyne can
do with a materialisation-cabinet will realise the necessity
of being extra careful before giving a supernatural
explanation to the performance of a medium allowed the
use of apparatus. In this particular case, Professor
Richet describes the details with such transparent
honesty that it is possible to see exactly how he was taken
in. For, first, the room was only illuminated by a candle
placed in a red photographic lantern which stood on a
shelf at a height of 6 ft, 9 in. above the floor. He says :
"■Finally, I will note that the curtain had an opening
and was so made that the right side was longer than
the left side. When the curtain was fully opened, we
were able to distinguish the hands and faces of the
mediums and their garments. At the same time, it was
,rather difficult to recognise them when the opening was
at its maximum. On the contrary, in the room itself,
outside the cabinet, at a distance of x yd. to rj yds. the
various sitters could easily be recognised.” Second,
f c topk no ;precautions to control the? medium, 'for he
‘says î 1 “ Let,us assume that Marthe, whom we have
never searched nor bound, could bring on her person all
"the apparatus necessary to serve far her disguisement,
PSYCHIC FORCE, ETC. 65
it possible that she could have made use of them ?
It 1 ? hnldlv • ' No.’ ” Third, we are told that
«^materialised figure had a face exactly like that of the
ttit m^enaxibcu 5 coarse black moustache on
fo her upper hp " F m r l Professor Richet «to its
that he was never permitted to catch hold of the
materialised figure, although he had *' in vain at various
times asked insistently for this experience.’ J W * '
nhotoeraphs taken by flashlight the figure of x*i •
always concealed the medium's face, although themegress
S m i out quite clearly. This is Professor Rictot s
explanation : '* In fact, Bien Boa had informed us that
as^Marthe feared the magnesium light, he would take
care to hide her eyes and face during the taking of the
photograph.” Sixth, in one of the photographs the left
sleeve of the medium’s dress is seen apparently pinned
to the negress's chair, and is apparently empty of any
arm Here is Richet’s comment on this surprismg
fact"* “ These are certainly very serious objections,
but it is allowable to suppose that the phenomenon, so
mysterious, almost inexplicable, which we call material­
isation is accompanied by a sort of disaggregation ( ?)
of the pre-existing matter, so that the new matter formed
is formed at the expense of the old, and that the medium
empties herself, so to speak, in order to constitute the
new being, which emanates from her, and which cannot
be touched without harm to the medium. . . . I am
not afraid of saying that the emptiness of this sleeveJar
from demonstrating the presence of fraud, establishes,
on the contrary, that there was no fraud ; also that it
seems to speak in favour of a sort of material disaggrega­
tion Pf the medium, which she herself was incapable of
suspecting.” Seventh, in an appendix to Richet saccount
written by a Madame X., who took part m the séances,
we learn that on one occasion they detected Marthe
putting her hand through the opening m the curtain.
Here is the comment on this unfortunate accident.
“ I am quite sure this was Marthe’s hand we SMi*
I distinctly saw her rise from her chair, pass her banc
through the aperture in the curtain and shake^Îh^Se
about in a way identical with the way in which the
^materialised ’ hand had, a little while before shaken
itself about; and this at a moment when I. had_seen
Marthe’s two hands on her knees. This automaüsm
is easily explained, so it seems to me, by circumstances
. teeeSausted medium was most probably hypno-
66 SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
tlsed into simulating reality by this tiresomely reiterated
request for the very phenomena simulated. It was pure
automatism, and. a clumsy one, too/*
I have given this experience at considerable length
so that the reader may judge for himself the quality of
the evidence which often convinces scientific men—
in other fields justly eminent—whose opinion is then
quoted by the public as conclusive proof of the reality of
spiritualistic phenomena. But it must not be imagined
that fraud is always the explanation of so-called ghostly
appearances. For belief in that class of ghost, associated
with a sensory hallucination, undoubtedly rests on better
evidence. I, myself, know a man who, in walking along
a road, saw the figure of an old woman so real in every
respect that he stepped out of the way to avoid it, and
yet next second it had disappeared. Another of my
friends saw the figure of a man, dressed in the anti­
quated dress of a smuggler of a century ago, appear on
the cliff-road along which he was walking, and then
suddenly disappear over the cliff. There can, in fact,
be no doubt of the genuine occurrence of this class of
phenomena; but the question still remains whether it
is necessary to seek a supernatural explanation. The
natural explanation is that they are all subjective pheno­
mena, due to brain conditions or to misinterpreted
sense-perceptions (i.e., hallucinations and illusions).
Thus, my friend who fold me about seeing the figure of
an old woman, though quite convinced of the reality of
,the phenomenon, was quite prepared to admit that he
may have been deceived by a shadow on the road, or by
some other illusory appearance. In favour of a natural
explanation of such occurrences are the following
considerations:
(a) That diseased conditions of the brain are known
.to give rise to delusions and hallucinations, as in the well-
known instance of the victim of delirium tremens seeing
.snakes or rats or beetles, etc,
(b) -That conditions of disturbed cerebral circulation
,ate ¿Iso known to give rise to visions of people and other
hallucinations. Dr, Henry Head, for instance, has
written a paper on “ Certain Mental Changes that Accom­
pany Visceral Disease/* from Ms own hospital experience,
In which he describes a variety of hallucinations,
. {0} 'That people in apparently good health are some­
times subject to curious neurasthenic symptoms, of which’
hallucinations are not uncommon. ' Of course, if we adopt
PSYCHIC FORCE* ETC, 67
a natural explanation, and it is admitted that these
experiences are subjective, it does not exclude the possi­
bility of the subjective phenomena being themselves the
result of a supernatural agency acting on the brain ;
but here we reach a region of hypothesis pure and simple,
incapable of proof or disproof. And as we know that
diseased conditions of the brain can produce subjective
phenomena, it is only reasonable to give the same explana­
tion to allied subjective phenomena, till very strong
reasons are found for the probability of a supernatural
agency, and till belief in the same rests on something
stronger than mere assumption and the bias of super­
stition, characteristic of ignorant savage races and of
childish minds. This class of ghost-story can be classified
under the heading, “ Phantasms of the Dead and Living,”
and it will perhaps be of interest to the reader if Ï antici­
pate what I am about to say on the subject of telepathy
by citing two or three interesting cases of this type of
experience.
Before doing so, however, some remarks about the kind
of testimony on which such experiences rest are necessary.
Gurney, who may be described as the chief author of
“ Phantasms of the Living/* says in his- introductory
remarks : “ We have not been able to regard the alleged
phenomena in the completely detached fashion which
most of those who'consider them naturally adopt* We
are unable to determine how far the impression on our
own minds of the evidence for spontaneous telepathy
has been dependent on our conviction of the genuineness
of cognate experimental cases/* This means that he
admits bias in favour of the possibility of spontaneous
cases of telepathy generally, and he himself says that
thereby the presumption against belief in wraiths and
phantasms of theliving is diminished and**the hospitality
of the mind to such phenomena is increased in a degree
which is none the less important that it does not admit
of calculation/* Such bias is reasonable in soYar as it
makes anyone prepared to believe in the possibility of
phantasms of the living, especially if the experiments in
telepathy on which it rests are reliable ; but it is unjusti­
fiable if it makes an investigator lax in demanding
corroborative evidence of the truth of the story in each
particular , case* ■For, as Mr. Taylor Innés says
{Nineteenth Century* Yah X X II., pp, 192, 3:93} : -
, ■*
* Experiments in telepathy may very well dispose
, those who .are fortunate enough to witness them to be
68 SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
perfectly willing to admit evidence for wraiths gener­
ally— to be satisfied that there is no presumption
against wraiths, and that the truth of each alleged
case simply depends upon the evidence brought
forward for it in particular. That belongs to the
region not of telepathy, but of testimony. Some of
us have long since been convinced that a wraith, like
any other alleged phenomenon— a meteor or sea-
serpent—is to be believed the moment proof for it is
brought forward, and that, assuming even that there
is no presumption for it, there ^is certainly none
against it. And once that point is attained, experi­
mental telepathy cannot help us much in dealing
with the evidence for a case said to have occurred
spontaneously. In particular, it cannot help us in
what has been the sole subject of our inquiries here
—the weight to be attached to subsequent oral and
to contemporary written testimony, respectively.
The value of these inter se, the general slipperiness of
the former and the general conclusiveness of the
latter, and how far in any particular case we can get
past the evidence which is slippery and subsequent,
and fall back upon that which is conclusive and con­
temporary-—all this belongs to the region of common-
sense, dealing with different classes of testimony.
And in that region of comparative evidence a bias in
favour of telepathy, like a bias against it, cannot
seriously help an inquirer, though it may seriously
hinder him. It is unfortunate, therefore, if any such
bias has been so powerful as to produce the treatment
of documentary evidence which we have here
criticised.”
The last words of the above quotation refer to the
fact that Mr. limes showed that in all the 702 cases
appearing in “ Phantasms of the Living ” — representing
the sifted material out of over 2,000 depositions about
wraiths and allied phenomena, and containing 350 experi­
ences which were related to the authors first-hand and
were passed by them as satisfying their standards of,
evidence-—there was not a single case in which documen­
tary evidence corroborating the fxuth of the story was
produced. And this, in spite of the fact that in at least
‘twenty cases the narrator alleged that letters crossed,
describing the experience and the corresponding actual
event, orthat some documentary proof had been issued at
PSYCHIC FORCE» ETC. 69
ike time; -while in quite a hundred cases the existence of
some corroborative documentary evidence is implied.
Further, in nine cases in which documentary evidence
was still forthcoming the story was weakened rather
than strengthened»1and in at least two cases the authors
passed stories where the statement that a note of the
experience had been made at the time turned out to be
a falsehood or an invention. On the significance of this
Mr. Innes says:
“ Now it might be going to work too strictly to say
to every man who tells us of a wraith or phantasm,
4We cannot listen to you unless you prove that you
made a note of it at the time and before you heard
of the fulfilment/ That, of course, is the most con­
clusive kind of evidence. Yet in its absence we may
receive his statement as uncorroborated verbal
1 evidence. But it is a different matter where a note
made at the time is actually alleged, and that pre-
4 tended note no longer exists— above all, where, as in
the two cases just quoted, it turns out to be a false­
hood or invention. In such a case it is surely not
too much to ask of an intelligent scrutiniser of evi­
dence that he shall wipe out the story from the mass'
of delusion that solicits the wearied eyes of men.
Yet, if such a principle were acted upon in these
volumes, how much of them, in so far as they profess
to be contemporary records of the facts, would be left ?
What, for example, would become of No, 140 ? . . .
And it is too evident that its being printed here is a
mete indication of the systematic relaxation of all
ordinary rules with which this matter of documentary
evidence is throughout treated. I have said nothing
with regard to the surrounding mass of spontaneous
cases where there is no written evidence to help us,
having made no study of these. But I have observed
no indication that these have been dealt with on any
more rigid principle than the documentary cases we
have investigated in detail, or that the latter have
been singled out for laxity. I suspect it will be
found that both departments of testimony to alleged
, spontaneous appearances share in the same merits
and defects which we have found in the one which
‘alone the public can adequately test,” {Lot. c%Lt
,,, pp, 191, 19a.} ; ( ' .. ,
; ^vFor an excellent recent case, see Appendix Cr (»5 ■• '
70 SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
A further point to be realised is that the reader of a
book like <
f Phantasms of the Living *
* only gets the
stories at second-hand, and so cannot judge of the value
of the written evidence unless the editors say minutely
*
* what endeavours have been made to inspect the docu­
mentary evidence; with what refusal or other obstacles
that endeavour was m et; and whether, in the resulting
view of the editors, the document which they refer to
exists now or ever did exist at all ? *
* It is always
necessary to remember this, because, as Mr. Innes says,
“ in some of the most important of the cases now
before us, as well as of those where letters crossed or
were exchanged, there is no notice of any such
endeavour, and no statement how it was frustrated.
And it is necessary to point out that this system of
printing stories about documents without remark
destroys the confidence which we are intended to
derive from the following assurance: *As far as
written testimony goes, the reader will have the same
, opportunities as we have had for forming an
opinion.’ ” {Loo. cii., p. 187.)
1 The moral to be drawn from all this is that in the
absence of documentary proof—and a single case, in
which the letters, said to have crossed, could be produced
with the official postmark and date, would be sufficient
to prove the truth of this class of phenomena—stories of
phantasms or wraiths rest on nothing better than uncor­
roborated oral evidence, with all the fallacies of uncon­
scious exaggeration, invention, the natural human love
of the marvellous, and defective memory, attached
thereto. For psychologists who have specially studied
the _subject have no hesitation in stating that the
memory of a dream or waking hallucination cannot be
relied on for accurately reproducing the experience as it
actually occurred. Even Gurney admitted that *
*the
■story of the percipient ” is far more liable to error than1
the account of the actual death or crisis which was said
to have been perceived. With these preliminary warning
.remarks, I now proceed to give a few examples of
phantasmal experiences.
One'of the •best cases was the appearance of Dr.
Astley?s ■supposed astral body to Ms housekeeper at
JSdhgVLynn, and also to Ms hcum tmens* the Rev. R.
/.Brock, in December 1908* when Dr, Astley was away in
7i
PSYCHIC FORCE, ETC.
Algeria on a holiday.1 Another good example is the
following case of General Thompson's dog, which has
some features recalling the well-known experience of
Sir Rider Haggard, who had a vivid dream, in which he
saw a favourite dog lying in some water about the hour
when the dog was killed by a passing train on a bridge
over a river.5
3
General j. C. Thompson is an American, and his state­
ment is as follows:
1
1 Jim, the dog whose ghost I refer to, was a beauti­
ful collie, the pet of m y family, residing at Cheyenne,
Wyoming. His affectionate nature surpassed even
that of his kind. He had a wide celebrity in the
city as the 1laughing dog/ due to the fact that he
manifested recognition of acquaintances and love
for his friends by a joyful laugh, as distinctively such
as that of any human being.
*
*One evening in the fall of 1905, about 7.30 p.ra**
I was walking with a friend on the Seventeenth Street
in Denver, Colorado. As we approached the entrance
to the First National Bank, we observed a dog lying
in the middle of the pavement, and on coining up to
him I was amazed by his perfect likeness to Jim in
Cheyenne, The identity was greatly fortified by
his loving recognition of me, and the peculiar laugh
of Jim’s accompanying it. I said to my friend that -
nothing but the 106 miles between Denver and
' Cheyenne would keep me from making oath to the
dog being Jim, whose peculiarities I explained to him*
The dog, astral or ghost, was apparently badly hurt;
he could not rise. After petting him and giving him ,
a kind adieu, we crossed over Stout Street and stopped
to look at Mm again. He had vanished. The next
morning’s mail brought a letter from my wife, saying
1 This experience is too long to reproduce in any detail here;
$0 ,1 have inserted in Appendix G (a) quotations from The Times»
illustraffng the particular features of this case,
* Sir Rider. Haggard’s experience was first published In ‘the
form of a letter to T h e T im e s on July 21st, 1904, p. 4 .' In, a
second letter to The Times on August 9th, he admits the dog was .
killed' instantaneously, and1 says: “ Ho telepathic impressions
cehld have been produced fay the dog, as the dog was in life. If at
all# then,..they must have been produced by a dog.to all,intents. ‘
ana purposes dead.” His own solution is either some noh-faodily,
but surviving.part of the life or spirit of the dog, or a mere M ■
boned *
*coincidence. ■ 1 ■ , ’ . ■ '
72 SPIRITUALISM, OCCULTISM,
that Jim had been accidentally killed the evening
before at 7.30 p.m. I shall always believe it was
Jlxp/s ghost I saw.” 1
As I gather that General Thompson actually touched
the dog, inasmuch as he says that he petted it, one's
reason at once suggests that he was mistaken in the dog,
and by coincidence his own dog died about the same
time. For if it was a case of waking hallucination, it
had very unusual features entailing tactile, visual, and*
auditory hallucinations. Further, if General Thompson
really believed it was his own dog, his conduct in leaving
the dog “ badly hurt ” was most unfeeling.
Another authentic and instructive case is the experi­
ence of Mr. F. G. of Boston, who saw what he thought
was the apparition of a favourite sister nine years after
her death. His statement is as follow s:
" The hour was high noon, and the sun was shining
cheerfully into my room. Whilst busily smoking
my cigar andwriting out my orders, I suddenly became
conscious that some one was sitting on my left with
one arm resting on the table, and quick as a flash
I turned, and distinctly saw the form of my dead
sister, and for a brief second or so looked her squarely
in the face; and so sure was I that it was she that I
sprang forward in delight, calling her by name, and ■
as I did so the apparition instantly vanished.”
The visitation so impressed the percipient that he took
the next train home and related to his parents what had
occurred. He particularly mentioned a bright red line
or scratch on the right-hand side of his sister’s face which
he had distinctly seen.
" When I mentioned this, my mother rose trembling
to her feet and nearly fainted away; and as soon as
shesufficientlyrecovered herself-possession, with tears
streaming down her face, she exclaimed that I had
indeed seen my sister, as no living mortal but herself
was aware of the scratch, which she had accidentally
made while doing some little act of kindness after
my sister’s death. In proof, neither my father nor
any of our family had detected it and were positively
■
unaware of the incident. Yet I saw the scratch as
•
; ,bright' as if. just made. So strangely impressed was
1 General Thompson's experience is quoted by Beckles Willson
. in “ Occultism ana Common-Sense/’ p. 38.
73
PSYCHIC FORCE, ETC,
my mother, that, even alter she had retired to rest,
she got tap and dressed, came to me, and told me she
knew that I had seen my sister, A few weeks later
my mother died/* 1
Although I shall discuss in the next chapter the different
types of waking hallucination, of which this is most
probably a case, y e t I w ill here make a few remarks
on this particular experience. Like ail these cases, it is
not capable of repetition, and so no scientific proof of the
"cause of the phenomenon is possible. But from a com­
mon-sense point of view the scratch seen on the face of
the apparition does not impress me in favour of a super­
natural explanation. It is very possible that this was
a striking feature of the apparition; but it must be
rem em bered that dreams and waking hallucinations
(both those which come true and those which do not)
are often characterised by absurd and peculiar features.
Again, there is no doubt that it was this feature which
impressed the narrator’s mother, as she knew of the
scratch she had made after death. But to my mind th e.
mere fact that the scratch was made after death makes it
difficult for one's reason to admit any causal connection
between, the dead sister and the apparition. If1con­
ditions which arise after death could affect the nature
o f an apparition, we might as soon have expected the
, sister's skeleton to have appeared. Consequently, if my
remarks strike the reader as just, this is a very good
instance of how a mere coincidence impresses the unscien­
tific actors in an experience of this kind with the necessity
for a supernatural explanation. Also it is a good instance
of a psychical experience being ingenuously told as if on ly;
one explanation were possible. The fact that the nar­
rator's mother said she knew lie had seen his sister does
not prove anything, nor the fact that a few weeks,later
his mother died.
i This experience is also quoted in '* Occultism and Common-
Sense/* p. 101.
CHAPTEE IV
TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
Under the heading of telepathy 1 is included every
phenomenon suggesting that mind is able to act on mind
at a distance without the aid of speech or the five senses.
The evidence for telepathy is at first sight most striking
and abundant, so that a belief in its reality is now almost
universal, at any rate outside strictly scientific circles
However, in spite of this, I propose to examine the nature
of the evidence, and I will begin by quoting a typical case
of supposed telepathy, which, as far as I know^ has never
been published. I am acquainted with a lady who was
practising private nursing in Australia about the year
1900. Early one morning she woke up full of dread, and
feeling that her favourite sister in England wanted her.
•She told me that she was sufficiently impressed to make
a note of the time and circumstance in her diary; and
that six weeks afterwards a letter came announcing the
death of her sister, just about the time that she had had
the feeling of dread.2
1 The reader interested in telepathy should also refer to Appendix
H, where some other difficulties connected with this hypothesis are
examined,
* This is the type of experience which gets quoted without any
attempt at scientific verification., Yet how necessary this is was
shown by the researches of the late M. Vaschide, who collected as
many as 1374 cases of subjective hallucinations experienced by
thirty-four persons (eighteen women and sixteen men) from among
his own personal friends and acquaintances. Of these 1374 experi­
ences, 1325 were thought by the subjects of the hallucinations to
correspond to some real fact ; in other words, to be veridical. But
M. Vaschide found, on making inquiries, that such was really so in
only forty-eight cases ; that is, there were 1277 cases or 96 per cent,
in which the subject of the hallucination had imagined the veridical
«incidence. The forty-eight cases where there really was a coinci­
dence between the hallucination and the fact only form 2*25 per
cent, of the total number of cases, and may therefore well be explained
by chance-coincidence when it is considered that often a train of
thought leading up to the hallucination had been started by know­
ledge of (the illness 'of a relative or friend. The reader should ■
certainly himself refer to this important research of M. Vaschide
1(* le s Halluclnarions Télépathiques,*
* Bloud & Cie„ 1908), where
' the facts underlying the hallucinations are analysed and the whole
of. *4phantasms, of the living** is fairly, if, critically,
.examined, ' ■ 1
74 ,
! "
TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE 75
Many similar experiences have now been recorded by
thoroughly trustworthy witnesses; and some of the best
may be found in the publications of the Society for
Psychical Research, so that there really is no question
about the facts in many of these cases. The only question
is about the explanation.
Now, 1 have known two or three other persons with
experiences similar to the one I have quoted; and the
first thing which strikes me about these persons is, that
so much have they been impressed by their single personal
experience that no amount of evidence to the contrary
would shake their belief in the existence of telepathy.
They have made up their minds irrevocably on their own
single personal experience. In contrast to this, just con­
sider what a similar course of action would mean in any
research problem of natural science. For if an experi­
menter trusts to a single experiment, however striking,
without repetition, the chances of his being led into
fallacies are enormous, as has been proved repeatedly in
the history of natural science. Perhaps only a man who
has done research can fully realise the foolishness of such
an unscientific method of basing belief.
But it may be objected that, owing to the nature 'of the
case, these so-called telepathic experiences cannot be
repeated, and that, on the other hand, there have now
been recorded hundreds of similar cases. This last
argument is apt to be very convincing to-any one without
a scientific training. But from a scientific point of view
one experiment repeated ten times and giving the same
result under approximately identical conditions is a
hundred times more convincing than a hundred different
experiments giving non-identical results, even though
some of them be analogous or individually extraordinarily
striking. Scientifically all one can say is that the evidence
for telepathy is wonderfully suggestive; but that as the
conditions practically never admit the repetition of any
•one experiment, it is most reasonable to remain agnostic
till the question of other possible explanations has been
discussed. ’ If one, can find a natural' explanation which
is probable, and which is in accordance with the known
facte of physical science and mental physiology, it will be
unnecessary to seek what we may call the supernormal
explanation1of telepathy, though theoretically there- is(
ab difficulty in behoving in the possibility of mmd acting
on mind by vibrations started in the ether or any other-
theoretical1medium which one chooses to .postulate*
76 TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
Practically, however, there is overwhelming evidence that
on ordinary occasions mind does not act on mind at a
distance, as will be obvious at once to the reader who
considers the facts of life. In war, for instance, there
would be no need of an " intelligence department/1if the
enemy's plans could be detected by telepathy. W e have
then got to consider if a natural explanation of telepathy
can be given to those extraordinary occasions when
telepathy to the ordinary uninstructed mind appears the
only possible explanation of the facts. If such an
explanation can be given, and it appears probable to the
reader, he must choose for himself between the normal
and supernormal explanations, as the question can never
be absolutely proved one way or the other.
Telepathy is rather a vague word, and so it embraces
a large number of diverse phenomena, which admit of a
certain rough classification, v iz .: (a) Cases where facts
known to a mind in a living body are supposed to be made
known to the mind of the percipient, (b) Cases where
facts known to a mind before death are after death made
known to the mind of the percipient, (c) Cases where
facts known to no human mind are made known to the
mind of the percipient, and therefore may be looked upon
as instances of telepathy between “ the Divine Mind *’
and a human mind. In theological language such cases
are called “ Special Providences/' or “ the Interposition
of Providence/'
Again, different names are given to telepathic pheno­
mena in accordance with the state of the percipient, v iz.;
(i) a dream constitutes a case where the percipient is
asleep; (2) a waking hallucination is a case where the
percipient, in apparently normal health and awake,
receives an impression; (3) clairvoyance includes cases
where the percipient transmits messages, generally from
supposed disembodied spirits or discamate intelligences,
either (a) by automatic writing, etc., or (b) in a state of
trance, or (¿) under what I may call mediumistic con­
ditions, that is, with the help of apparatus or a darkened
room, and often accompanied by physical phenomena.
(4) Lastly, there are a number of cases done under
supposed experimental conditions.
Before discussing telepathy, I want to impress on the
reader what is the nature of hypnotism, as in popular
psychical literature nothing is commoner than to had
great confusion of ideas and language on the subject, and
to read of hypnotic phenorhena as proof of telepathy. ‘
TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE 77
One of the simplest instances of a, living mechanism
which responds to suggestion is that of a frog deprived
of its cerebral hemispheres. It is only necessary to set
up a sensory stimulus for the frog inevitably to react m
some particular way. It has no will of its own, for it
subconsciously reacts like an automaton to sensory
stimuli. Thus, whereas a normal frog on the one hand
sits up on its hind legs and reacts to stimuli as it likes—
and one can never prophesy beforehand how it will
behave— on the other hand, a frog deprived of its cerebral
hemispheres (the highest parts of the brain) lies more or
less hat on the ground and makes no effort to move. If
a piece of moist paper is placed on its nose, so as to
obstruct the inflow of air, it will inevitably brush it away.
A normal frog, on the other hand, might leave it alone or
hop away. , , ,
This is a very simple instance of subconscious action;
but it serves fairly well as a ground-work for building up a
picture of the state of a hypnotised subject. Such a
subject, of course, is a much more complicated mechanism
than the frog deprived of its cerebral hemispheres; but
the principle is much the same. The subject’s will-power,
though it may be actually stronger, works more or less
in conformity with' the suggestions of the operator, and
actions are performed sometimes quite subconsciously m
response to the stimulus of suggestion.
The experiments of Dr. Bramweii1and others on time*
Dr. Bramweii carried out a series of experiments on a lady, who
cameo aoout wiua uw; wwaicvv* *
*
*»•
each experiment the lady was hypnotised, and the suggestion was
made that she should write down the time after a certain number of
minutes had elapsed., This she succeeded in doing'correctly to the
minute in forty-five out of fifty-five experiments. Of the remaining
ten experiments, in eight there were minute differences, never
exceeding five minutes between the subject's correct¡estimate of
when the suggestion fell due and the moment at which she earned
it out. Here is one experiment: Dr. Bramweii hypnotised her, and
a friend (Dr, Barclay) who was present suggested that she should
write down the time in 21,434 minutes. When she woke up, she
had ho remembrance of the suggested time. Yet she wrote down
the time correctly 21,434 minutes after the suggestion had been
made. In her normal state the lady was incapable of conrecfcly
calculating in her mind how many days and hours 21,434 minutes
would make; and even in the hypnotised state her reckoning was
not fme from error. % , , , . . „ ^ A
Similarly, the wonderful appreciation of space and powet of
balance shown by somnambulists is but another example ot the
important faculties possessed by lower centres, when unchecked by
78 TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
estimation, etc., in hypnotic subjects are sometimes
referred to in popular psychical literature as proving the
probability of telepathy, but they prove nothing more
than the following, that in the course of growth (both of
the child, and also of the race from which he has been
evolved) <the various habits acquired by human beings
and carried out by the lower centres are learnt under the
conscious guidance of the higher centres or so-called will­
power. In the course of time these habits can be carried
out more or less subconsciously, so little effort does it now
take for the higher centres to start the mechanism. And
in a few instances, like that of time and space appreciation
the mechanism comes to work so smoothly without the
interference of the higher centres that we are unaware
how excellent is the mechanism of the lower centres until
we do special experiments to demonstrate it.1
Thus all that hypnotism has proved is the excellence of
the nervous mechanism which can be put into action
either in a state of hypnosis by the suggestions of an
operator, or normally by one's own will-power, or sub-
consciously in quite a normal way by sensory stimuli, as
when a labourer can very nearly guess the time of day,
although he has no watch on him.
* As we are sometimes conscious of this mechanism and
sometimes not, the name subliminal consciousness or
subconscious self has been given to the mental side of the
phenomenon. And some writers on psychical subjects
axe very fond of talking as if " subliminal consciousness ”
were the same thing as *
*soul,” and as if it were the sub*
conscious self which possessed the telepathic faculty.2
the Interference of the so-called will; for consciousness of danger
and the fear thereby felt at once deranges the mechanism.
For a fuller account of these and analogous experiments I must
«ter the reader to Dr. Bramwelfs book, “ Hypnotism, its History,
Practice and Theory *
* (1903, Grant Richards).
1 The inhibitory action of the higher centres associated with
consciousness will be quite familiar to any one accustomed to play
pieces,,of music by heart, The piece having once been learnt; the
lower centres canry out the mechanical part of the performance
almost ^
subconsciously, while consciousness is concentrated on
expression, interpretation, etc. Now, very often if one diverts
ones attention to the mechanical part of the performance, and
1wmmmmxms is allowed to be occupied with the thought “ I wonder
if I have forgotten the' next bar/* the whole mechanism is interfered
1mtiL and one cannot play any more correctly,
H
t
For instance, in the Westminster Gazette of November 1907, one
* m* Notes of the pay*’ : *
*His the writer of articlesbn
mmsm and Gammon-Sense *) conclusion is brle% that amid
TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE 79
For this assumption hypnotism does not afford
adequate evidence. All that hypnotism has proved is
the wonderful range of action o$ the lower centres, and
horn" this mechanism can be controlled by outside sugges­
tions coining through the senses. Hypnotism, in fact,
contains no difficulties for the most pronounced
materialist, and affords no support whatever to the
v iew of spiritualists or other believers in supernatural
phenomena.
Having now cleared the ground by giving a brief
account of the nature of hypnotism and what it has
proved, I will consider some of the difficulties associated
with giving a telepathic explanation to the phenomena of
dreams, second-sight, waking hallucinations, clairvoyance,
and trance-utterances.
First, as regards dreams, it is a commonplace how often
dreams do not come true, and what nonsense many a
dream is.1 Ancl yet if telepathy be given as an explana­
tion of the dreams which do come true, it is hardly logical
to give a different explanation to the other ninety-nine
per cent* However, ’ taking only those dreams which
appear to have been verified, there is very little justifica­
tion for giving a telepathic explanation. For the only
fact in common to the group is the feeling of dread or
anxiety felt by the percipient. There is no strict cor- ■
relation between the time of the experience and the hour
at which the object of the dream' {who often is in a
dying state or placed under abnormal conditions) is
supposed to have been thinking of the percipient.
much fraud and self-deception there is good evidence for theexistence
in the living personality of faculties which are called telepathic,
subconscious* or subliminal.’*
1 A friend of mine recently told me that one night in 1906 he
dreamt that he was present at his sister’s funeral, and 'was so much
Impressed that in the morning he sent a telegram to his parents
ashing if Ms sister was all right. She was perfectly well, and
subsequently her health was not affected by her brother’s dream.
My friend, at the time of the ¿ream, was in his usual health—that
is, not exceptionally robust* as he told me he is liable to wake up in
the morning slightly depressed.
The reader interested in dreams should consult a book like the
work of' Mr, Havelock Ellis f *The World of Breams/* Con­
stable & Co., 19 11), where the characteristics of the dreaming
state are fully discussed, and it is shown how dreams arise* The
chapter on Memory in Breams is particularly interesting; and the
problem of how it Is that,we sometimes recognise a place or person
whom we have never, seen before, as recalling an old memory* is
satisfactorily explained. - 1
So “TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
In the majority ol cases the experience is usually
recorded as if there were accurate synchronism between
the two events, and as an example of this class of pheno­
menon I herewith quote Canon Warburton’sexperience:1
*
* Somewhere about the 37
ear 1848 I went up from
Oxford to stay a day or two with my brother, Acton
Warburton, then a barrister, living at 10, Fish Street,
Lincoln’s Inn, When I got to his chambers, I found
a note on Ms table, apologising for Ins absence, and
saying that he had gone to a dance somewhere in the
West End, and intended to be home soon after one
o’clock. Instead of going to bed, I dozed in an arm­
chair, but started up wide awake exactly at one,
ejaculating, *By Jove 1 he’s down ! * and seeing him
coming out of a drawing-room into a brightly illumi­
nated landing, just saving himself by his elbows and
hands. (The house was one which I have never seen,
nor did I know where it was.) Thinking very little
of the matter, I fell adoze again for half an hour, and
was awakened by my brother suddenly coming m
and saying: *Oh, there you are ! I have just had
as narrow an escape of breaking my neck as I ever
had in my life. Coming out of the ballroom I caught
my foot, and tumbled full length down the stairs.* "
(Quoted in " Occultism and Common-Sense,5
* p. 60.)
But there are also cases in which the percipient has
the experience hours before the event, and of this class
none is more striking than the dream of Mr. Lane.
Mr. Fred Lane’s statement is as follows, dated Adelphi
Theatre, December 20th, 1897 ;
" In the early morning of December i6th, 1897,
I dreamt that I saw the late Mr. Terriss lying m
. a state of delirium or unconsciousness on the stairs
leading to the dressing-rooms in the Adelphi Theatre.
•He was surrounded by people engaged at the theatre,
amongst whom were Miss Millward and one of the
footmen who attend the curtain, both of whom I
actually saw a few hours after at the death-scene.
'%in the following illustrations of dreams and waking hallucina­
tion s'I have, with one exception, reproduced examples given m
4
4 Occultism and Common-Sense.” My reason for so doing is that,
-although there are perhaps better cases contained m Phantasms of
the 'living ” and the publications of the S.P.R., I think these cases,
selected by Mr. Willson in Ms review of the-evidence for telepathy
up to date* are as suitablefor reproduction as any. , , ,
TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE 81
His chest was bare and clothes tom aside, Every
one who was around Mm was trying to do something
for his good. This dream was in the shape of a
picture. I saw it like a tableau on which the curtain
would rise and fall. 1 immediately after dreamt that
we did not open at the Adeiphi Theatre that evening.
I was in my dressing-room in the dream, but the latter
part was somewhat incoherent. The next morning,
on going down to the theatre for rehearsal, the first
member of the company I met was Miss H,, to whom
I mentioned this dream. On arriving at the theatre,
I also mentioned it to several other members of the
company, including Messrs. Creagh Henry, Buxton,
Carter, Bligh, etc. This dream, though it made such
an impression on me as to cause me to relate it to my
fellow-artistes, did not give me the idea of any coming
disaster, I may state that I have dreamt formerly
of deaths of relatives and other matters which have
impressed me; but the dreams have never impressed
me sufficiently to make me repeat them the following
rooming, and have never been verified. My dream of
the present occasion was the most vivid I have over'
experienced, in fact life-like, and exactly represented
the scene as I saw it at night.** {Journal S.PM.t
February 1898, p. 195«)
There are also other cases in which the percipient has
the experience hours or days after the event. Of this
class I may quote the following;
*
*Mr. Podmore relates how a neighbour of Ms, on
the night of June 24th, 1894, dreamt that President
Carnot had been assassinated. He told Ms family
before the morning paper announcing the news had
1been opened. As has been pointed out, in a case of
; that kind it seems possible that the information may
have reached the sleeper in Ms dreams from the shouts
of a news-boy, or even from the conversation of
passers-by in the street.** {uOccultism and Common-
Sense/* p, 60,)
Waking hallucinations may be discussed as if they
were dreams, for they are analogous phenomena, and the
fact that the percipient is ayrake when he has the experi­
ence does not really affect the essence of the pheno­
menon. Two points in particular I wish to accentuate:
>frstiyy That only a very small number of experiences
82 TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
axe verified; and secondly, that, Just as in dreams,
one finds the same want if synchronism between the
perception of the event and the hour of its occurrence,
Here are three examples ;
(a) Apparently synchronous.
Lord Charles Beresford’s experience as given to the
S.P.R.;
*
* It was in the spring of 1S64, whilst on board
H.M.S. Racoon, between Gibraltar and Marseilles,
that I went into my office on the main deck to get a
pipe, and as I opened the door I saw my father lying
in his coffin as plainly as I could. It gave me an
awful jerk, and I immediately told some of the fellows
whowere smoking just outside, the usual place between
the guns, and I also told dear old Qnslow, our chaplain.
“ A few days after we arrived at Marseilles, and I
heard of my father's death, and he had been buried
that very day and at the time, half-past twelve in the
day. I may add that at the time it was a bright,
sunny day, and I had not been fretting about my
father, as"" the latest news I had of him was that
although very ill he was better. My dear old father
and I were great chums, more so than is usual between
a man of seventy-two and a boy of twenty, our
respective ages then.” {Quoted in *
* Occultism and
Common-Sense,” p. 84.}
(&
) After the event.
From the Westminster Gazette, November 18th, 1907:
” Instances of clairvoyance in children are remark*
ably numerous. A few weeks ago the Rome corre*
. spondent of the Tribune reported that a boy of twelve
at Capua was discovered sobbing and crying as if Ms
heart would break. Asked by Ms mother the reason,’
of Ms distress, he said that he had just seen Ms father,
who was absent in America, at the point of death,
assisted by two Sisters of Charity. Next morning a
. letter came from America announcing the father’s
death. Remembering the boy’s vision, Ms mother
,, tried to keep the tale a secret, lest he should be
1 ; regarded as possessed; but her efforts were vain*’
w several persons having been present when he explained
■:> toecafttSftbi’Msgrief.1
” '
t e l e p a t h y AND CLAIRVOYANCE 83
(c) Before the eventA
The case of Prince Duleep Singh* who writes:
" On Saturday, October 21st* 1893,1 was in Berlin
with Lord Carnarvon, We went to a theatre together
' and retired before midnight. I went to bed* leaving*
as 1 always do* a bright light in the room (electric
light). As I lay in bed* 1 found myself looking at an
oleograph which hung on the wall opposite my bed,
I saw distinctly the face of my father* the Maharajah
Duleep Singh/looking at me* as it were, out of this
picture, not like a portrait of him, but his real head.
The head about filled the picture frame. I continued
looking, and still saw my father looking at me with
an intent expression. Though not in the least
alarmed, I was so puzzled that I got out of bed to
see what the picture really was. It was an oleograph
common-place picture of a girl holding a rose and
leaning out of a balcony, an arch forming the back­
ground. The girl's face was quite small, whereas my
father's head was the size of life and filled the fram e/'
On the day following the dream he mentioned it to
'Lord Carnarvon, and on the evening of that day Lord
Carnarvon handed Mm a telegram announcing the elder
Prince's death. (Quoted in {<Occultism and Common-
Sense/' p. 91.)
Of all the above experiences, that of Mr. Lane is
’particularly interesting and instructive, because he
admits that he was frequently having dreams which never
came true; and that, on the occasion of his dreaming
1 This class of experience is apt to be recorded through ignorance
of the necessity of allowing for longitude. The percipient, wishing
to make the story impressive, tells how the vision was seen exactly
at the moment when the event was taking place somewhere on the
other side of the world. For instance, see Cases 345 and 495 in
*
*Phantasms of the Living,”
Andrew Lang, also, in “ The Making of Religion ” (pp. 9 7-10 4 1
,including footnote, 3rd eci, Longmans, 1909), makes two slips, or at
any rate cites two cases, whichillustrate the difficultiesintroduced by
geography. In the first a letter, posted (or rather written) in Cairo
on January 27th, is said to have been received in Scotland on
January 31st—an impossible feat even in these days of aeroplanes.
In the second a lady in Scotland is supposed to have had a vision of
a scene which was taking place in India at the moment. But this
result is obtained by allowance being made for longitude the wrong
way. For India is about five hours ahead of Scotland in time, apd
so 5.p,m. in India corresponds to about noon in Scotland; whereas
the story is told as if it corresponded to 10 p.m. in Scotland,
84 TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
about Mr. Terriss’s death, he only spoke about it because
it was a more vivid and striking experience than usual.
It illustrates a psychological fact, which is not known to
the ordinary man, that feelings of dread, waking hallucina*
tions, or some sort of similar experience, are by no means
uncommon in people enjoying apparently good health.
The late Professor Sidgwick and the Society for Psychical
Research made a census of 17,000 healthy, normal people,
and found that 655 out of 8372 men, and 1029 out of
8628 women—very nearly 10 per cent, out of the whole
number—had had experiences. If, then, experiences are
so comparatively common, there is nothing improbable
in the view that coincidence is a sufficient explanation of
those few cases which may be said to “ come true/1and
which make such an impression on the subject of the
experience that they get reported—not always accurately
—while the far more numerous cases which do not1
' come
true ” are never heard of again.1 For no sane man will
deny that coincidences, against the occurrence of which
the chances are very remote, do occur in the world. As
an example, I will give the following instance from a
letter in the Daily Graphic, September 7th, 1905 :
“ Sir ,
“ Among many strange coincidences which I
have experienced in my time, one of the most singular
. 1 Professor Newcomb, first President of the American Society of
Psychical Research, wrote an article in the Nineteenth Century lor
January 1909, in which he gave the conclusions he had reached after
half a century's study of the subject. He says (p. 13c } ;
“ Taking the hundreds of coincidences as they stand, andregarding
each narrative as complete in itself, the conclusion that there must
have been some causal connection between the distant event or
emotion and the vision looks unavoidable. But may it not be that
causes already known are sufficient to account for the supposed
coincidences without introducing telepathy or any other abnormal
agency ? *’ His reply is that the theory of mere coincidence still
holds good. Every one who sleeps in London is surrounded by
several millions of minds. Scores of people are in the throes of death
every minute. How, then, do the inhabitants of London sleep
undisturbed ? Thousands of people have “ visions ” and strange
dreams. In one case in a million the vision seems to have had a
basis in living fact. That is the case that is investigated; the other
999,999 are neglected.
Readers interested in the subject of experimental telepathy should
read an article by William Marriott in the, October number of
Pearson's Magazine for 1910, where the difficulty of guarding against
.collusion is explained.,,
, , For-a fuller consideration of the difficulties of telepathy, and of
the explanation of 'coincidental,hallucinations, see Appendix H.
IlStptllllpSIff^
TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE 85
which 1 cm recali at the moment happened to me In
connection with a play which 1 wrote some twenty
years ago for the German Reed entertainment. One
of my characters was named Robert Golding, and for
the' requirements of the plot 1 had made him the sole
survivor of the crew of a ship called the Caroline,
which had been lost at sea. A few days after the
production of the play I read in a newspaper an
account of the shipwreck of a vessel named the
Caroline, which had, gone down with all hands, with
one exception, and this exception was a man of the
name of Golding. Now Golding is not at all a common
name, and the circumstance of his being, both in fact
and fiction, the sole survivor of the shipwrecked
Caroline, impressed me at the time as being a coinci-
, dence of a very peculiar nature,
" Yours faithfully,
" Arthur Law.”
This is a case of pure coincidence about which there
can be no doubt; 1 but in the realm of dreams and
hallucinatory experiences if is difficult to get such a
clear case, However, it will be instructive also to give
here an instance of a premonitory dream, never before
published, which I think will be admitted by most people
to be clearly a case of coincidence; though my friend who
fold me Ms dream was so much impressed by it that 1
doubt if coincidence would satisfy him as an explanation.
Mr. E. W „ in the year 1902, had been living in the
bush (in the Pahiatua district of New Zealand) formonths,
and never thinking about horse-racing, when one night
he had a most impressive dream of a race, in which a
horse called Kanaka won. He heard the crowd shouting
the name " Kanaka 1 Kanaka ! ” in a way which almost
1
drummed it into Ms brain. On waking, he was so much
impressed that he rode twenty or thirty miles to the
nearest town, got a racing almanac, and found a horse
called Kanaka was entered for the steeplechase at the
Wanganui races next week. He wired to have some
1 It Is surprising how many cases of striking coincidences can be
collected by any one on the look-out for them. Thus, in the Daily
Telegraphof June 21st, 1909, it is recorded how two vessels collided
in a fog off1Dungeness.' ‘One was a cruiser and the other a Wilson
liner, but both were named Sappho,
■An .excellent collection of coincidences is contained m a corre­
spondence which went on in the Daily Graphic between August 28 th
and October 10th, 1905.
36 TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
money put on the horse, and when the race was run the
horse came in first.
Now as no two race-horses in New Zealand can have
the same name, it is not very easy to get a new name for
a horse. Also as Kanaka 1
$the name given to the natives
of the Pacific Islands in the neighbourhood of New'
Zealand, Kanaka is by no means an unlikely name for a
race-horse In New Zealand. The coincidence therefore
consists in the fact that this particular horse should have
been racing next week and should have won. But the
chances are not abnormally great against it, and if the
horse had not won, the dream might have been forgotten
long ago.
Also the following account of an apparently genuine
spirit-photograph, which I heard Professor Barrett cite
as an instance of coincidence combined with a natural
explanation, is worth recording here.
In the autumn of 1891 a lady, Miss D „ took a house in
Cheshire for the holidays, which belonged to Lord
.Dombermere.,.....She had. with heraiew. unopenedpackagea ■
of Paget plates, so as to take some photographs which
would serve as mementoes of her stay. On December
,5th, shortly after her arrival* she took a photograph of
the library, and, much to her astonishment, discovered
that a spirit-form, with a beard, but possessing no legs,
appeared in the negative seated on the arm of Lord
Combermere’s own chair. Much impressed, she asked
Professor Barrett to investigate the matter. He first of
all found out from Miss D. that her platehad been exposed
for about fifteen minutes, but she was pretty sure that
she had not left the room, and that no one had come info
it. Professor Barrett, however, was not satisfied ; so he
interviewed the servants, among whom he found a young
footman of about the same proportions as the spirit-form
in the photograph. But whereas the latter had a beard
but no legs, the former had legs, but no beard. This
young man, on cross-examination, admitted that he might
have entered the library about the time the photograph
was taken, but denied that he had sat on the chair. So
Professor Barrett determined to take a photograph him­
self of the library ; and, while the plate was exposed* he
got a friend to 'come into the room, sit on the arm of the
chair, look up at the camera, cross and uncross Ms legs,
and then walk out of, the room. Thé result was a negative
containing' a apirit-iorm almost identical with that'of
TELEPATHY AHD CLAIRVOYANCE 87
Miss D/s photograph, so that Professor Barrett was
satisfied with a natural explanation of the phenomenon—
viz.* that the footman had come into the library and sat
on the arm of the chair, then, on looking up, and seeing
a camera pointed M l at him, had hastily got up and gone
out of the room. And Miss D., on further cross-examina­
tion, admitted that she might perhaps have left the room
for a short time. The absence of legs in the spirit-form
was the result of the legs being crossed and not kept still,
while the head was moved just enough to give a blurred
effect sufficiently lifelike to be mistaken for a beard.
Now, I must draw attention to the remarkable coinci­
dences of this story, the chances against the occurrence of
which are obviously enormous, At the time that Miss
D /s photograph was being taken, Lord Combermere was
being buried. And he had met his death in a rather
unusual way. A dray had knocked him down in Knights-
bridge, inflicting very severe injuries. He was at once
taken to a hospital, where his legs were amputated and he
died shortly after the operation. Lastly, as a sequel to
this story, it is interesting to hear that some relative of
Lord Combermere saw the photograph, and, without
knowing Professor Barrett's explanation, recognised the
spirit-form as that of Lord Combermere, who, I omitted
to say, wore a beard. (See also article in Westminster
Gazette, for December 9th, 1907.} - ’
The question, then, we must ask is, whether telepathy
or coincidence is the more probable explanation of
dreams and hallucinations, which by no means always
synchronise with the event perceived, but take place
sometimes before it and sometimes after it. If it is
telepathy, the influence, whatever it is, must be held to
be hanging about both before, at the time of, and after
the event, provided that this explanation is applied to all
cases of dreams and hallucinations. But if it is not
telepathy, *
*it may be urged/' as Andrew Lang says,
*
* many hallucinations occur and many deaths. People
only remember the hallucinations which happened, or
were made by erroneous calculation to seem to happen,
coincidentally with the decease of the person seen. . . .
The coincidental hallucinations have certainly a better
eMnce of being remembered, while fancy is apt to
exaggerate the closeness of the coincidence. ■ Nothing can
demonstrate. th a t' coincidences between death and
hallucinations occur more frequently than by the
38 TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
doctrine of chance they ought to do, except a census of
the whole population.*'1 In many cases the coincidence
between the experience and the event is not Soremarkable
as is usually supposed. Here is a suggestive example
showing how much is left to fancy in the telling of
experiences supposed to prove a supernatural explanaron*
" A prominent Chicago journalist, Mr. F. B* Wilkie,
reported that his wife asked him one morning in
October 1885, while still engaged in dressing, and
before either of them had left their sleeping-room, if
he knew anyone named Edsale or Esdale. A negative
reply was given, and then a ‘ Why do you ask ? ' She
replied : ‘ During the night I dreamt that I was on
the lake-shore and found a coffin there, with the name
Edsale or Esdale on it, and I am confident that some­
one of that name has recently been drowned there/
On opening his morning paper, the first item that
attractedhis attention wasthe report of the mysterious
disappearance from his house in Hyde Park of a young
man named Esdale. A few days afterwards the body
of a young man was found on the lake-shore/*
(Quoted in “ Occultism and Common-Sense,” p. 65.}
This story is so told as to lead one to'fancy that the
lady had the dream at the time that the young man was
drowned. But from the details given it is impossible to
say whether he died at the time of the dream or before
or after. 1And of course it would make the coincidence
much more remarkable, and so improbable as an explana­
tion, if exact synchronism between the dream and the
young man's death were established.
How much need there is for being sure of the facts and
leaving nothing to fancy is shown by the above account
of a spirit-photograph and also by the following story of
a spirit-photograph described by Mr. Podmore.
A chapel was photographed, and when the plate was
developed, a face was faintly seen in a panel of the wood­
work^ which the photographer recognised as a young
acquaintance who had not long since met with a tragic
death*
4
t In fact/* writes Mr, Podmore, “ when he told
me the story and showed me the picture, I could easily
see the faint but well-marked features of a handsome,
• 1 $40:' article 4
8Psychical ' Research *
Britannica,” Ed. X., VoL X X X IL, p, 51.
la “ Encyclopaedia
TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE 89
melancholy lad of eighteen, A colleague* however,
to whom I showed the photograph without relating
the story, at once identified the face as that of a
woman of thirty. The outlines are in reality ^
so
indistinct as to leave ample room for the imagination
to work upon; and there is no reason to doubt that, as
in the ghost of the library, the camera had merely
preserved faint traces of some intruder who, during
prolonged exposure, stood for a few seconds in front
of it,” (“ Modem Spiritualism/1Vol. II., p, 125.)
1
Lastly, in some cases where it seems remarkable that
a particular person was the subject of a dream or hallu­
cination, it is not so remarkable as at first sight appears.
A train of thought, once started, may assert its existence
long afterwards by influencing the complexion of a dream
or hallucination, just as a suggestion made in the hypnotic
trance may produce results long afterwards. And many
people have some subconscious worry and yet will tell
you they have not thought of the matter for weeks.
Thus,, in the case of Lord Charles Beresford already
quoted, he knew that Ms father was ill, even if he was
not consciously fretting about the matter. Consequently
It is quite intelligible how a subconscious train of thought
may have affected him, so as to have given him a vision
of his father lying in a coffin. And the fact that he had
Ms experience about the same hour as Ms father was
buried— not when Ms father died-—is to my mind in
favour of coincidence rather than of telepathy as an
explanation of the phenomenon* # , ■
;
As an example of the influence of subconscious impres­
sions, the following instance is very suggestive, and bears
on the subject of trance-utterances, with which, I shall
deal shortly*
Stainton Moses was a clergyman and master at
University College School, London, and therefore may
be regarded as unlikely to have consciously deceived*
He appears to have had remarkable mediumistic powers,
among others, that of receiving messages from the dead*
But, as Mr* Podmore points out,
*
*all the spirits indeed gave their names with one
exception—an exception so significant that the case
■
' Is worth recording* The Pall Mall Gazette for
1February 21st, 1874, contains the following item, of
go TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
intelligence. f A cab-driver out of employment this
morning threw himself under a steam-roller, which
was being used in repairing the road in York Place,
' Marylebone, and was killed immediately/ Mr. Moses
was present at a seance that evening, and Ms hand
was controlled ostensibly by the spirit of the unhappy
suicide to write an account of the incident, and to
draw a rough picture of a horse attached to a vehicle.
The name of the dead man, it will be seen, does not
appear in the newspaper account, and out of the
thirty-eight spirits who gave proofs of their identity
through the mediumship of Mr. Moses, this particular
spirit alone chose to remain anonymous/ ’ (“ Modem
Spiritualism/' Vol. II., p. 283.)
. Even Gurney was much impressed by the unexpectedly
large proportion of cases where the percipient informed
him that there had been a compact between himself and
the deceased person, that whoever passed away first
should try to appear to the other. ,f Considering/* he
adds, " what an extremely small number of persons make
such ,a compact compared with those who do not, it is
difficult to resist the conclusion that its existence has a
■certain efficacy/*1
Now it is clear, from the mere fact that such a compact
has been made, that the parties thereto have been thinking
and'worrying over the subject of life after death, and so
it is not remarkable if this train of thought colours an
hallucination or neurasthenic feeling of uneasiness, which
happens to coincide more or less with the death of the
other party to the compact.
■As regards experimental cases of telepathy, I have never
yet seen any evidence such as will satisfy a scientific
standard of truth, though some of the results aredistinctly
striking. Yet in experiments carried out for this purpose
such a proof should be possible. Professor and Mrs,
Sidgwick—and later Miss Johnson—-carried on a long
series of experiments in 1889-1891 in order to test the
possibility of transferring a mental picture from one mind
1 SeeuPhantasmsof the Living/* by Gurney, Myers, and Podmore,
Vol XI., p. 66. Theparagraphcontinues: " Thecause of thismight
'be sought M some quickening of the agent’s thought in relation to
the percipient as the time for fulfilment approached. But * . * the
efilcaoy of the compact may quite as readily beconceived todepend
0» its latent place m the percipient’s mind as in the agent’s/’
TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE 91
to another* Anyone who reads the details will see how far
from conclusive were the results.1
Of professional “ thought readers7 the Zancigs may
he quoted as leading exponents of the art, though they
were careful not to use the word u telepathy, but
restricted themselves to saying that they found they had
a wonderful power of reading each other's thoughts, and
that they had developed this power by practice.2 Their
1 See F ree. S.P.R., Vol. VI., p. 398»and Vol. VIII., p. 554* The
results at once became poorer if the agent and percipient were
separated bv a wall or a floor, however, it is only fair to point
out that this fact does not necessarily exclude telepathy being
iriven a«: the explanation of the more or less successful results when
agent and percipient were in the same room. For, as Podmore
says: *
*It seems scarcely possible to attribute these results to
hearing, with whatever degree of hyperesthesia we may credit Miss
B * but it should be mentioned that a further series of four hundred
trials, in which Miss B. was separated from the agent by two closed ■
doors instead of one, or was placed in a different building, yielded
practically no success. In an experiment depending on purely
physical conditions we should, no doubt, be justified, after such a
failure, in inferring that the results were directly affected by the
distance or theintervening obstacles, and were therefore due to some
mechanical cause, which had escaped the attention of the observer.
But in thisinvestigation we have of course to deal with very delicate
living machinery, and it seems not improbable that the obstaclein
these later trials was not the second closed door, but Miss B, s
weariness, or the more tedious nature of the experiments themselves,
owing to the difficulty of communicationbetween the experimenters,
he 1all powerful with hypnotised persons. For since there are
numerous later experiments, in which ideas have apparently been,
conveyed telepathically a much greater distance, a distance in some
cases measured by hundreds of miles, it seems incredible that the
slight.alteration in the physical conditions can really have had
anything to do with the success. But the circumstance will serve
to illustrate the difficulties attending experimental investigation
in these obscure psychological by-paths.” (“ Telepathic
Hallucinations,” p. 53.)
In the more recent experiments of Miss Miles and Miss Ramsden
in 1907 it is surprising, or at least unfortunate, that, if they have
such a telepathic faculty as is claimed for them, they have not
performed more experiments. For those recorded do not amount
fo fifty; and, though the complete failures are not numerous, there
are several which it is difficult to call successful. (See Proc, S*P
Vol. XXL, p. 6o* and Journal 5.P.R., June, 1908.)
* In an interview, Mr. Zancig is reported, in the Daily Mail xor
December 6th, 1906,, to have said; “ I can’t explain it; I don t
know why we can do 'it, nor how we do it ; all 1 know is that within,
certain lines we can do certain things which nobody else seems able
to do as well. It is not clairvoyance, has no manner of connection
with it; it is not anything but transference of thought or brain
9% TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
S'* ¡nuance included the following type of experiment,
e Mr, Zancig stood among the audience and held
some object handed to him by one of the audience* Mrs,
Zancig on the stage described it. Again, if Mr, and Mrs.
Zancig were provided with two copies of the same book,
and if Mr. Zancig concentrated his mind on a passage in
his copy of the book, Mrs. Zancig could read the passage
out of her copy. Their performance was certainly
extremely clever. Mrs. Zancig succeeded in rightly
naming the most unlikely things handed to her husband,
so that there are only two possible explanations— viz.*
telepathy orthe use of a code. Which is the more probable
explanation may be gathered from the following facts and
criticisms, (a) When they came to Cambridge they were
provided with two copies of a book, which, unlike most
books, had unnumbered pages. Under these conditions
Mrs. Zancig was unable to reproduce the passage her
husband was thinking of. (b) Stuart Cumberland, in the
Daily M ail of December 8th, 1906, describes some of the
phenomena he witnessed at a performance; among
others, how a paper cracker cap was handed to Mr,
Zancig. Mrs. Zancig pronounced it to be a 1 dress-
sample ■at first, and then, on being told she was wrong,
said it was a cap (not a paper cap). Now, a brain-wave
could not have communicated * dress-sample * by any
chance in mistake for a rolled-up paper cap. Mr. Zancig
might have been in doubt for a moment, but could not
have sent the brain-wave message of *dress-sample/
Again, a gold medallion was called at first a 1 hat/ Mr.
Zancig must have grasped the nature of the article in an
instant, and ‘ hat ’ on the brain-wave theory is absurd,
impressions from one to the other; that is all we really know about
it. And, I repeat, we attained our present imperfect power by long,
hardpractice/* He also reiterated his previousstatement that the
object of Ms wife and himself was to entertain and make a little
money. But althoughhisobject was to make money,heneverwould
accept any of the challenges offering to pay him largesumsof money,
if he and his wife succeeded under “ test *
* conditions. Thus, the
Throne for February 16th, 1907—after quoting Mr. Zahcig’s words:
*
*If I werein America andmy wife wasleft in South Africa, she could
read my thoughts as accurately as she could on the stage, if only she
knew at what time the transference of thoughts was to be made **-—
,offered to pay £5,000 to King Edward*® Hospital Fund, or £100 to
Mr. Zancig himself, if some words written by the Duke of Argyll on
,-^caxd could be transmitted by Mr. Zancig to Mrs. Zancig “ under
simple’conditions pade by ourselves/*
"■
j:
/For a duller criticism of the Zancigs* performance, see William ’
’Harriotts article In Pearson's Magmirn for October, 1910. •‘
TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE 93
hut .a misread, over-hasty code-word explains a ll” (c)
Mr. M. H. Spielmarm, in the Taller for January 23rd and
30th, 1907, also gives excellent examples of where the
code fell short, and further mentions a case strongly
suggestive of collusion. He says : “ On January 3rd, a$
reported in the Baity M ail, a cigarette case was handed
to Mr. Zancig, and was at once stated to be a cigarette
case containing seventeen cigarettes. This was before
it was opened, so that the number was unknown to Mr.
Zancig, who states formally and precisely that he can only
transfer knowledge he himself possesses, As there is no
suggestion that the owner could similarly transfer Ms
thoughts, even ifhewasaware of the number of cigarettes,
the whole occurrence detaches us from the idea of thought
transference and lands us in the realm of collusion/#
(d) Sir Oliver Lodge, in the Daily M ail of December 6th,
1906, is reported to have said: f*For my part, I am
inclined to think that the performance is the result of a
trick. In all the cases of thought reading which we have
investigated andconsidered genuinehitherto, theinfluence
has' not been under the control of the mediums and
capable of being produced whenever desired, but has been
a spontaneous and involuntary one. ( That is what leads
me to suspect the present case/1
I have dwelt at almost unnecessary length pn the
■Zancigs—*
seeing that there can be no reasonable doubt
they employed a code—because they excited a great deal
of interest at the time and took in completely the average1
m m interested in the occult, but with no special training
for itsinvestigation. Thus,W. T *Stead wrote in the Review '
of Reviews (VoL XXXIV., 592, December 1906): “ I can
say without hesitation that the Zancigs at the Alhambra!
Music Hall give a more conclusive demonstration of die
power of telepathy than is to be found in all the literature
of the subject. On each of the two occasions on which I
experimented with them in private, the results were,the
same asthose to bewitnessed by anybody atthe Alhambra.
The only difference was that at the experiments in private
I had ample opportunity to impose conditions which
rendered fraud or' trickery impossible.” Mr. Stead's
attitude is also typical of the man who believes in a
medium after he has been exposed, because next month,
. finding that the Zancigs had meanwhile been more or less
,exposed by professional conjurers, he wrote: ■
“ They do
not claim that they use telepathy. They shrink from
any explanation, and I shrewdly suspect they occasionally
94 TELEPATHY AND C L A IE V O Y A iliillll
pse code-signals and other little tricks in order to give
Investigators something to go upon, and so keep up the
interest intheirshow.” (Review ofReviews, V ol XXXV
46* January 1907.) * ’*
I now come to those cases of supposed telepathy in
which, by means of automatic writing or trance utterances
certain mediums or clairvoyants claim to transmit
messages from the dead. Ï have already referred to
Mr. Stainton Moses, and pointed out that of thirty-eight
spirits who revealed their identity through his agency
that one alone remained silent whose name Mr. Moses did
not know beforehand. Assuming Mr. Moses to have
been what I may call a genuine medium, this instance
suggests very strongly that on one occasion at any rate
Mr. Moses was himself the unconscious victim of self-
deception, and that the information supplied by his hand
was information he had already gathered from the Pall
Mall Gazette or other paper—that is, in the ordinary way
through his senses.1 It is interesting to point out, for
those who believe in telepathy between living minds, that
«iis very belief cuts at the root of disembodied spirits
bemgable to prove their existence. Thus Andrew Lang
says ; &
[* As to cases of isolated phantasms of the dead,
it is admitted on all hands that sane and sober people .
may have subjective hallucinations of the presence
of living friends not dying or in any other crisis.
Obviously, then, the appearance of a dead person may
equally be an empty hallucination. Thus a member
of the House of Commons, standing at the entrance of
a certain committee-room, saw another member, of
peculiar aspect and gait, pass Mm and enter the room,
1 1 have already pointed out in the last chapter, in a note on
p. 62, how planchette reproduced some information known to a
mend of mine which he had forgotten.
Another excellent example of the same phenomenon is referred to
by Podmore as follows: “ A writer in the North American Review,
April 1855, relates that a medium of Ms acquaintance, a lady of
. transparent ingenuousness,* produced three poems purporting to
have been writtenby thespirit of John Milton, One of thesepoems
was headed 4A Latin Sonnet *; it was not a sonnet, nor was it
Written in Latin, or in any other language, but it had throughout a
Lato sound, and the terminations were all Latin. The explanation,
no doubt, is to be found, as thereviewersuggests, in the fact that the
,lady’s father had for years prepared young boys for college, and she
herself had probably in‘her youth often heard Latin read aloud/*
;m/* VoL L, p* 263*} '
'f*.Modem Spiritu
TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE 95“
tils favourite haunt. Several hours passed before the
percipient suddenly recollected that the other member
had been dead for some months. Even superstition
cannot argue that this appearance was a ghost. . , .
Telepathy cuts both ways. It is, if accepted, a
singular discovery, but it throws an enormous burden
of proof on a ' ghost/ who wants to establish his
identity. In the same way telepathy cuts at the
1 root of *clairvoyance/ For the same reasons the
information nominally given by *spirits *of the dead
through the mouth or by the automatic writing of
Mrs. Piper may be explained by telepathy from the
living who knew the facts. In Dr. Hodgson's present
opinion the dead do communicate through Mrs. Piper.
The published evidence does not seem to justify this
conclusion, which is not accepted by Mrs. Piper
herself/* 1
Mrs. Piper is perhaps the most famous of this kind of
medium; for not only does she transmit messages from
1 *
*Encyclopaedia Britannica/' Ed. X., Vol. XXXII., p, 52.
Undoubtedly the messages received bothfrom Mrs. Piper’s “ trance-
controls,” and also through the writing of other automatists, such
as Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Holland, cannot be dismissed as unworthy
of very serious investigation, seeing that they contain interesting
examples of superficially inexplicable subconscious phenomena and
constitute what Professor Barrett calls the “ small residue of
phenomena/' which he finds inexplicable on any other hypothesis
than that of discarnate human beings, that is to say, the spiritualistic
hypothesis {see Introduction to “ Occultism and Common-Sense/*
by"Beckles Willson). Thus, one of Mrs, Piper's best successes
occurred with Sir Oliver Lodge, who handed to her a watch which
had belonged to an unde of his named Jeremiah. Thereuponfactsin ■
the early life o f this uncle were mentioned, which, according to Sir
Oliver Lodge, were unknown to any one present at the sitting {see
“ Survival of Man/’ p, 223). However, even if wc exclude telepathy
as an explanation, there are great difficulties about accepting the
spiritualistic hypothesis. For It would Imply that a departed spirit
more or less haunts any property which had belonged to it on earth,
in just the same way as the spirit of Mrs. Shaler's aunt talked through
Mrs, Piper, when she held in her hand a seal which had belonged to
the departed lady, as described on the next page. Thus, to my mind,
preparation for the sitting on Mrs. Piper’s part, or hints uncon­
sciously given by the sitter, still appear much the most probable
explanations, even though we are told that the normal Mrs. Piper
is much respected by all her friends, and has never been detected in
fraud, and that Dr. Hodgson for some time employed detectives.
But it is to be remembered that an adequate scientific investigation
of Mrs. Piper has never been made, and that the moral standard 6t
Mrs., Piper's secondary consciousness may be very different from that /
of her'normal life. • •
96 TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
the dead, but she professes to be able to supply informa­
tion about people unknown to her.
She has convinced many apparently keen observers •
and there is no question of the difficulty of invoking
anything so simple as fraud to explain the source of the
knowledge occasionally exhibited by her trance per­
sonalities. But in spite of this, there is no satisfactory
proof that fraud is always impossible. This possibility
is well expressed in a letter from Professor Shaler to
Professor James as follows
" M y D e a r J a m e s ,
“ A t the sitting with Mrs. Piper on May
25th I made the following notes.
“ As you remember, I came to the meeting with
my wife; when Mrs. Piper entered the trance-state,
Mrs. Shaler took her hand. After a few irrelevant
words, my wife handed Mrs, Piper an engraved seal
which she knew, though I did not, had belonged to
her brother, a gentleman from Richmond, Virginia,
who died about a year ago. At once Mrs, Piper began
to make statements clearly relating to the deceased,
and in the course of the following hour she showed a
somewhat intimate acquaintance with his affairs
those of Ms immediate family, and those of the family
in Hartford, Connecticut, with which the Richmond
family had had close social relations. The statements
made by Mrs, Piper, in my opinion, entirely exclude the
hypothesis that they were the results of conjectures,
directed by the answers made by my wife. I took
no part in the questioning, but observed very closely
all that was done.
" On the supposition that the medium had made
very careful preparation for her sittings in Cambridge,
it would have been possible for her to have gathered
all the information which she rendered by means of
agents in the two cities, though I must confess that it
would have been rather difficult to have done the
work.
1 I have quoted this letter because it summarises rather well the
impressions made on an unbiased observer, and because it was used
for the same purpose by Podmorc in “ Modern Spiritualism/’ but it
should be realised that, while giving a fairly typical account of the
,kind of information which Mrs. Piper imparts to her sitters, it gives
m idea of the fishing, guessing, and other modes of acquiring
,information that are employed by the entranced medium. Only a
stenographic or yerbatim report can do this; ' , <
t e l e p a t h y AND CLAIRVOYANCE 97
«
* The only distinctly suspicions features were that
certain familiar baptismal names were properly given,
while those of an unusual sort could not be extracted,
and also that one or two names were given correctly
as regards the ceremony of baptism or the directory,
but utterly wrong from the point of view of family
usage* Thus the name of a sister-in-law of mine, a
sister of my wife, was given as Jane, which is true
by the record, but in forty years1 experience of an
intimate sort I never knew her to be called Jm e ; in
fact, I did not at first recognise who was meant.
“ While I am disposed to hold to the hypothesis
that the performance is one that is founded on some
Mud of deceit, I must confess that close observation
of the medium made on me the impression that she
was honest. Seeing her under any other conditions,
I should not hesitate to trust my instinctive sense as
to the truthfulness of the woman.
0 I venture also to note, though with some hesitancy,
the fact that the ghost of the ancient Frenchman who
never existed, but who purports to control Mrs*
Piper, though he speaks with a first-rate stage French
accent, does not, so far as I can find, make the,charac­
teristic blunders in the order of his English words
which we find in actual life. Whatever the medium
Is, I am convinced that this " influence *
* is a pre­
posterous scoundrel* ■
" I think I did not put strongly enough the peculiar
kind of knowledge that the inedium^ seems to have
concerning my wife’s brother’s affairs* Certain of
the facts, as, for instance, those relating to the failure
to find his will after his sudden death, were very
neatly and dramatically rendered. They had 'the
real-life quality. So, too, the name of a 'man who
was to ’have married' my wife’s brother’s daughter,
but who died a month before the time fixed for the
wedding, was correctly given, both as regards surname
and Christian name, though the Christian name was
¡not remembered by my wife or me.
“ I cannot determine how probable it is that the
medium, knowing she was to have a sitting with you
in Cambridge, or rather a number of them, took
pains to prepare for the tests by carefully working
up the family history of your friends. If she had
done this for thirty or so persons, I think she could,
though with,some difficulty, have gained just the
98 TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
Mud of knowledge which she rendered. She would
probably have forgotten that my wife’s brother’s;
given namewasLegh* and that of his mother Gabriella
while she remembered that of Mary and Charles, and'
also that of a son in Cambridge, who is called Waller
So, too, the fact that ail trouble on account of the'
missing will was, within a fortnight after the death of
Mr. Page, cleared away by the action of the children ;
was unknown. The deceased is represented as still
troubled, though he purported to see just what was
going on in his family.
“ I have given you a mixture of observations and
criticism ; but let me say that I have no firm mind
about the matter. I am curiously and yet absolutely
uninterested in it, for the reason that I don’t see
how I can exclude the hypothesis of fraud, and until
that can be excluded, no advance can be made.
" When I took the medium’s hand, Ï had my usual
experience with them—a few preposterous compli­
ments concerning the clearness of my understanding
and nothing more.” (Proc. S-PJ£., V ol XIII., pp
524, S2S*) :
Fraud is indeed so possible that one cannot be too
careful about being convinced by evidence associated
with professional mediums.1 As Podmore says in Ms
" Modern Spiritualism ” (Vol. IL» footnote on p. 339) ;
There is a belief, no doubt well founded amongst the
more clear-headed^ American Spiritualists, that there is
an elaborate organisation for obtaining and interchanging
1information thus acquired amongst all the members of
the guild. It is perhaps in this way that we may explain
the peculiar good fortune of well-known Spiritualists
in obtaining ‘ tests/ Some of Mrs. Piper’s sitters had
previously visited other mediums, but if the precautions
taken to prevent her knowing the names of the sitters
were effectual, as they probably were in most cases, it
seems hardly likely that she could have utilised any
information thus gained.” And, though Podmore’s atti-
1In thecase, however, of Mrs. Piper, my own attitude towards her
powers is that there is no need to invoke the assistance of an infor­
mation-bureau ” or of agents employed by her, to explain her success ;
and, in addition to this, the testimony in favour of her honesty is so
unanimous and of so good a quality, and in some cases the difficulty
of collectinginformation without the sitter’s assistance was so great,
that any organised system of fraud may be dismissed as a most
improbable hypothesis*
TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE 99
tude on the subject of Mrs. Piper is summed up in the
following sentence: ” The conviction entertained by
those who are best qualified to judge that Mrs. Piper's
information was not obtained by such methods is based
partly on the precautions employed, partly on the nature
of the information itself/1yet there are definite suspicious
circumstances about some of her sittings apart from the
indefinite impression of fraud produced by a “ control ”
like Dr. Fhinuit. The best examples of these within my
knowledge occurred on the following occasions ;
(x) At a sitting given by Mrs. Piper to Professor Hyslop,
an uncle of his, named James McClellan, professed to
communicate with him. This uncle's father was named
John McClellan. Now, among other information the
" control ” said that his father had gone to the war and
lost a finger. These statements were not true of James
McClellan's father, but were true of a neighbour with the
same name, who had lived within a few miles of James'
father; and this other John is mentioned in the published
history of the county. {Proc, 5.P.R., Vol. XVI., pp,
110, 470, 535.)
(2) At a sitting given by Mrs. Piper to Professor
Bowditch and his sister-in-law in 1886 (this was afterMrs.
Piper had been unable to keep a first appointment owing
to indisposition) they heard a number of spirit-names,
Sally,” " Jane,” etc., which meant nothing to them.1
Finally Mrs. Piper said : ” I hear a name,— well— well—*
Dixweli— the first name is Anna,” and she gave a more
or less accurate account of the death in Paris of a cousin
of Professor Bowditch, named Anna Dixweli, adding:
" Teh my mother, your sister, that I am well and happy.”
This she repeated. Then followed: ” Your father is
here, and he wishes me to tell you that he is pleased with
you, and glad you are doing so well, I see him sitting
1with Ms books, around Mm,”
The connection of all this with Professor Bowditch was
not apparent; but on the way home it occurred to Ms
sister-in-law that Mrs. Piper had mistaken Professor
Bowditch for his uncle, Henry I, Bowditch, to whom the
remarks did apply. (Proc, S*P,Rt>V ol VEIL, p, 7.)
{3) Podmore writes in Ms last book, " The Newer
Spiritualism,” p. x6x ;
, " Amongst recent communications from the en­
tranced Mrs, Piper the attempts at translating the
ioo’ TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE
Latin message— to be discussed later—point most
strongly to what may be called illegitimate sources
of information. As will be seen, the translations
given in the trance are difficult to reconcile either with
the theory of communications from the dead, or that
of telepathy from the living. Another suspicious
incident is the mistranslation of mori.”
On the other hand, it is often said, as a strong point in
favour of Mrs. Piper’s genuineness, that Dr. Hodgson,
after years of investigation, pronounced his conviction
that she was controlled by " discamate intelligences/’
and that he was an observer of exceptional acuteness, as
shown by his exposure of Madame Blavatsky. But even
at that earlier time he declared that whatever pre­
possessions he may have had “ were distinctly in favour
of occultism and Madame Blavatsky ” ; so that he may
not unfairly be considered as slightly biased in favour of
a super-normal explanation of the phenomena he was
investigating, phenomena in the record of which auto­
suggestion is particularlyliable to blind the eyes. Indeed,
he may almost be compared to the members of the
Commission who were sent out by the 5.P.R. in 190S to
Italy to investigate the supernatural powers of Eusapia,
and who, in spite of considerable personal knowledge of
and skill-in conjuring, were taken in by her superior skill, :
as already described. In any case, whatever be the
■explanation of Mrs. Piper’s successes, there is one striking
coincidence about many of them, namely, that very little
convincing evidence is afforded at the first sitting, and
that the success is often associated with knowledge which
slowly accumulates and only assumes an apparently
super-normal character in the course of subsequent ;
(sittings, as, for example, in the case of Sir Oliver Lodge’s
Uncle Jerry, in the " Lethe Incident/’ etc. 1
And further, the fact that Mrs. Piper often holds the
hands of her sitter lends probability to the view that in
the trance she has a faculty for reading subconscious
muscular expressions of emotion or thought— analogous
to, if much more highly developed than, the faculty by
which professional thought-readers respond to the guid­
ance of any one who concentrates his mind on a hidden
object— and that by a skilful process o f guessing ” and
< ‘ -1 The ^ Lethe Incident ” 1
$ described in Proc* S.F.IL, pt. lx.,
•.VoL XXIV** March 1910 ; *
*the case of Uncle Jerry ” in'
'h w , Vol. VI., pp, 498- 550,
TELEPATHY AND CLAIRVOYANCE 101
4
t fishing ” she sometimes worms more out of her sitters
than appears to them conceivable.1
As a summary, then, of the phenomena exhibited in
Mrs. Piper’s trances, we may say that, for the man who
has some definite standard of truth, they cannot be cited
as a proof of the existence of discamate spirits. For,
to quote what is practically the last utterance of Podmore
on the subject: *
*The trance personalities have never
told us anything which was not possibly, scarcely any­
thing which was not probably, within the knowledge of
some living person. None of the *posthumous 1letters
have yet been read. . . . Nor has the Hodgson Control
fet revealed the secret of his cipher.” (° The Newer
piritualism,” p. 3x2.) And as regards giving telepathy
as an explanation, I think that this chapter will have
shown that, whilethe evidence isso conflicting, an agnostic
attitude is still the most reasonable; though, even if it is
ultimately necessary to admit the existence of knowledge
obtained by Mrs. Piper otherwise than through her five
senses, and invoke telepathy as an explanation, this
means nothing more than believing in the existence of
vibrations in the ether, resulting from and acting on
nervous matter. Such a faculty, if it exists, might
perhaps be compared with the “ home-ing instinct ” in
birds, and might be regarded as a vestigial instinct'
inherited from our animal ancestors.
' 1 Such, at any rate, is the opinion of many of Mrs. Piper’s sitters,
who had no reason for being biased in favour of the super-normal.
Thus Dr. C. wrote the following note on his sitting, held in Prof.
Dodge’s house on December 23rd, 1889 (Proc. $,P.R„ Vol. VI., p.
497): “ The trance state seemed natural; but had more voluntary
movement than I had ever seen in an epileptic attack. The entire
change in Mrs. Piper’s manner and behaviour is unlike an intentional
effect, and it is possible she herself believes that the conditions mean
something outside of herself. With regard to the results, the misses'
seem to balance the hits, and the *reading *is not so impressive as
the *sitting.* After reading over your notes, I think they consist of
a certain amount of thought-reading and a large amount of skilful
guessing.”
APPENDIX A
FromThe Times Weekly Edition, Supplement, June 25th
1909
On the Subject of <
cSpirit ** Photography
The photographic world has once more had its attention
drawn to the claims of what is called " spirit ” photo­
graphy ; and a committee has been formed, under the
auspices of the Daily Mail, which has been investigat­
ing the subject, with the inevitable result. Three
spiritualists and three expert photographers formed the
committee. The three spiritualists reported that the
photographers were not in a proper frame of mind to
succeed in obtaining “ spirit ” photographs. The photo­
graphers announced that no scrap of evidence was put
before them to show that " spirit ” photography was
possible. But they went further, and herein lies the
feature of this particular investigation. They invited
the submission to them of “ spirit ” photographs, and,
having examined these critically, they report that not
only did they not testify to their supernatural produc­
tion, but that they bore on the face of them circum­
stantial evidence of the way in which they had been
produced; in other words, that the prints were not
mysteries, but self-revealed “ fakes.”
Those who are not photographers may well wonder
how so very definite a pronouncement can be made. A
recent case will show how photographs can be made to
tell a good deal more than is to be seen by a mere glance
at them.
Let us imagine a man in a frock coat, buttoned over
towards the right, as is customary with frock coats, and
with one of his hands thrust into the breast after the
manner of the first Napoleon. Let us imagine him next
with the same coat on, but buttoned over to the left,
with the other hand thrust into it. Imagine any one
$et the task of photographing him in these two positions,
so that every crease, every fold, every thread in the
1
texture of the coat, every hair on his head (the parting
shifted oyer automatically also), every minute detail in
the one photograph shall be the exact counterpart of
102
a p p e n d i x a I0'3
every minute detail in the other. No human power
could do such a thing, though, no doubt, a very close
resemblance might be got.
If, two such photographs -were shown to a photo­
grapher, he would say that beyond all doubt they must
have been made from the same negative, the only
difference being that one was reversed, right for left,
in the process, as may easily be done by photography.
Now, there have been “ spirit ” photographs in which
the “ spirit ” appeared in such a frock coat, and in two
of,them, although the “ material ” part of the picture
was different, the " spirit ” was alike in both exactly
as already described. A difference of the hundredth
part of an inch in any detail of the " spirit ” would
nave been manifest directly the two negatives were put
film to film; but the registration was exact. Yet one
purported on the face of it to be a view of a *
*spirit”
with Ms right hand thrust into his coat, and the other
another view of the same spirit,*but this time with Ms
left hand in that position.
The explanation of the trick, for it is nothing else, is
absurdly simple. If in taking a portrait we can intro­
duce inside the dark-slide which holds the plate, and
1
fust in front of the plate, a positive on glass or film of
the u spirit *
* form, the light which reaches the plate
when the lens is uncapped strikes through that positive
'and prints a negative of it on the plate at the same time
that it prints a negative of the real sitter. As dark-
slides are usually made as thin as possible, it is more ■
convenient, to have that positive on a thin celluloid
film instead of. on glass, and if it is put in one case with
the one side, and in the other with the other, turned '
towards the plate,-we shall get a right-handed “ spirit
in one, and a left-handed “ spirit ” in the other, with all
the details in each exactly agreeing. It is the easiest '
thing in the world to arrange a dark-slide which will
look perfectly innocent and yet have the positive within
it, so that it will give a “ spirit/" either on every plate,
or on some, at the will of the photographer,
The ordinary precautions which are said to be taken
against trickery In such a case are no protection at all,
The plates are bought in the ordinary way, initialled to
make sure that the plates so bought are those that .are
exposed, nnd whoever makes the test may see them put
into the slide and exposed, and may take them out and ■
,develop them,1
! Yet the “ spiritri forms appear,
APPENDIX A
104
It might be thought strange that the mistake of putting
the same spirit on two plates, one the right way roum£
and the other reversed, would not have been guarded
against, since it at once gives a clue as to the way in
which the thing has been done. But no inconsistencies
of this kind seem to have the slightest effect upon
believers, and many “ spirit ” photographs which are
accepted without question by those who like such
things are far cruder in the way in which they reveal
their origin.
For instance, when a plate is exposed in a camera,
it is held in position either against a wooden rebate all
round the dark slide, or by catches or pins. If the
slide has a rebate, it has no catches or pins, and vice
versa; in fact, the two methods are quite distinct, and
indicate dark slides of an entirely different pattern.
The plate is put in from the front when it is held by
catches, from the back when it is held by a rebate.
Whatever the method, it leaves its mark upon the
negative, and the photographer to whom it was shown
would have no difficulty in deciding at once whether
one method or the other had been used. Yet some of
the spirit negatives which are accepted as bearing
“ supernormal” figures upon them actually bear the
plainest indications on their margins that the one
exposure has been made in both forms of slide. The
edges of the plates are marked both by a rebate and by
catches. It does not follow that the plate itself has
been exposed twice; it merely indicates that it has
acquired the extra marks from the positive of the spirit,
the spirit form having been photographed originally in
a dark slide of a different pattern. It might be supposed
that the very slight precautions which would suffice to
obliterate one set of marks would have been taken in
common prudence; but, so confident are those who
produce such things in the credulity of their customers,
that no trouble on such a score seems to be required.
, In the same way, marks which are incontestable evidence
' to a photographer that these pictures are due to some
form of double printing, such as has been described
above, are often left on; a *
* spirit ” has even had its
picture cut up into little squares or dots by the action
of a half-tone screen, showing that it was a copy of some
' process n illustration. Yet it has been accepted as
genuine. ‘
v. •
'There,are other very significant features in these
APPENDIX B 105
“ spirit *
* photographs. While the sitter or medium is
photographed direct upon the plate, the spirit/' as
already shown, is put on by a more round-about process,
It is first photographed, and a negative is obtained in
the usual wa}L A positive on glass or film is made from
this, and this is used to print a “ negative ” picture on
the plate as described above. Each one of these opera­
tions involves a certain loss of quality, or, as the photo­
grapher calls it, a degradation of tone. It is this which
enables any one of experience to tell at once whether a
photograph was taken from life or was copied from
another photograph. Now, almost without exception
in these *
*spirit ” photographs, while the material sitter
is shown as would be expected when photographed
directly, the " spirit ” picture has the degradation
which indicates that it is a copy and not taken direct,
as it purports to be. In many cases, too, the material
sitter is lit from the right, the 4
1spirit ” lit from the left*
There have been stereoscopic pictures in which, although
the material sitter showed the stereoscopic relief, the
*
*spirit ” form showed no relief, but appeared simply as
a fiat surface, though the folds of its garments cast
shadows.
There is no need to go further into these things. A
whole chain of detailed circumstantial evidence is carried
-upon the face of these photographs, which those who
accept them have to explain, before they have any basis
for demanding an experimental test of their supernatural
productions.
APPENDIX B
The Rev. William Stainton M
o
ses
Qu
otation from " Modem Spiritualism n showing how*
easy it was for him to escape detection, and how much
evidence there is that he produced his phenomena by
trickery;
fr From this brief sketch of the physical manifesta­
tions it will be clear that the mediumship of Stainfoa
Moses in this aspect, at-all events, added nothing to
the evidence for Spiritualism. If we leave out of the
-account for the moment the difficulties involved in
the supposition that a man of his character and
antecedents should lend himself to trickery, there is,
APPEN D IX B
nothing in the manifestations produced in Ms presence
to suggest any other explanation. All that was done
*
*has been done again and again by fraudulent mediums
and naughty children, and done under conditions
much less favourable. Stainton Moses had the
advantage of darkness more complete than that
afforded to most mediums. For the greater part of
the long period under review his only sitters were
two old friends, to whom the bare suspicion of dis­
honesty on the part of their tried and trusted fellow-
worker, the man whom they had selected to be the
tutor of their son, would have seemed a monstrous
thing. No tests of any kind were imposed, and the
controlling spirit, speaking through the mouth of the
medium, sternly repressed any attempt in that
direction. The introduction of strangers was also
discouraged ; and, though a few favoured persons
were admitted later, their presence seemed to exercise
an injurious influence over the physical manifesta­
tions, so that the phenomena were often limited to
elevating discourse from f Imperator.’
“ It was hardly to be expected that in a circle
constituted as described actual proofs of fraud should
come to light. But it is noteworthy that even in
the records written by the Speer family, under the
influence of a strong prepossession in favour of the
medium, there are many suspicious circumstances.
Thus, Dr. Speer records that on one occasion, stretch­
ing out his hand in the dark, he encountered another
hand in the middle of the table, where no hand should
have been, the medium ostensibly sitting at some
distance from the table. The spirit lights are
described as hard, round, and cold to the touch, a
description consistent with the supposition that they
consisted of round bottles of phosphorised oil. At
some of the early séances Dr. and Mrs. Speer were
requested to rub their hands together quickly when
the lights appeared, in order to generate power— a
device which might naturally suggest itself to a
trickster as a convenient means of checking the
impulses of unseasonable curiosity. It is to be noted,
further, that hands, and occasionally a forearm, were
/ seen holding the lights. Again, in a passage to
' which my attention was directed by Dr. Hodgson,
' yré have the record— by the medium himself— of
what appears to have been a miscarriage to the
APPENDIX B 107
bottle of phosphorised oiL Alter describing the
appearance of several large lights, Mr. Moses writes ;
*Suddenly there arose from below me, apparently
under the table, or near the door, right under my
nose, a cloud of luminous smoke, just like phos­
phorus. It fumed up in great clouds, until I seemed
to be on fire, and rushed from the room in a panic.
I was fairly frightened, and could not tell what was
happening." I rushed to the door and opened it,
and so to the front door. My hands seemed to be
ablaze and left their impress on the door and handles.
It blazed for a while after I had touched it, but soon
went out, and no smell or trace remained. . . . There
seemed to be no end of smoke. It smelt distinctly
phosphoric, but the smell evaporated as soon as Ï
got out of the room into the air.* ”
Again, note this significant episode, recorded by Mr.
Charlton Speer as one of the most satisfactory “ test ”
incidents in Ms experience :
*
* We were sitting one night as usual, and I had in
front of me, with my hand resting upon it, a piece
of notepaper with ' a pencil close by. Suddenly
Stainton Moses, who was sitting exactly opposite to
me, exclaimed, ‘ There is a very bright column of
light beMnd you.1 Soon afterwards he said that the
column of light had developed into a spirit form.
1 asked him if the face was familiar to him, and he
•replied in the negative, at the same time describing
the head and features, When the séance was con­
cluded, I examined my sheet of paper, which my
hand had never left, and found written on it' a
message and the signature.” And Mr. Fodmore
says : “ It is perhaps fair to assume that when Mr.
Speer’s attention was thus directed to what was
going on beMnd Ms •
back, he, momentarily at least,
diverted his attention from the paper on which his
hand rested ” (Vol II., pp. 280-282).
APPENDIX C
APPENDIX C
Accoun
t of a Seance at Hackney by Sir W
*
Crookes, F.R.S.
“ I pass on to a seance held last night at Hackney.
Katie never appeared to greater perfection, and for
nearly two hours she walked about the room, con­
versing familiarly with those present. On several
occasions she took my arm when walking, and the
impression conveyed to my mind that it was a living
woman by my side, instead of a visitor from the
other world, was so strong that the temptation to
repeat a certain celebrated experiment became almost
irresistible. (This refers to an occasion on which a
sitter had embraced a “ spirit.” ) “ Feeling, however,
that if I had not a spirit, I had at all events a lady
close to me, I asked her permission to clasp her in
my arms, so as to be able to verify the interesting
observations which a bold experimentalist has
recently somewhat verbosely recorded. Permission
was graciously given, and I accordingly did— well,
as any gentleman would do under the circumstances.
" Mr. Volekman will be pleased to know that I
can corroborate his statement that the *ghost * (not
f struggling/ however) was as material a being as
Miss Cook herself. But the sequel shows how wrong
it is for an experimentalist, however accurate his
observations may be, to venture to draw an im­
portant conclusion from an insufficient amount of
evidence.
“ Katie now said she thought she should be able
this time to show herself and Miss Cook together. I
was to turn the gas out, and then come with my
phosphorus lamp into the room now used as a
cabinet. This I did, having previously asked a
friend, who was skilful at shorthand, to take down
any statement I might make when in the cabinet,
knowing the importance attaching to first impres­
sions, and not wishing to leave more to memory
than necessary. His notes are now before me.
" I went cautiously into the room, it being dark,
and felt about for Miss Cook. I found her crouching
, on the floor. Kneeling down, I let air into the lamp,
; and by its light I saw the young lady, dressed in
APPENDIX D Î09
black velvet, as she bad been in the early part of
the evening, and to all appearance perfectly senseless.
She did not move when I took her band and held
the light close to her face, but continued quietly
breathing,
*
* Raising the lamp, I looked around and saw Katie
standing close behind Miss Cook, She was robed In
flowing white drapery, as we had seen her previously
during the séance. Holding one of bliss Cook's
hands in mine, and still kneeling, I passed the lamp
up and down, so as to illuminate Katie's whole
figure, and satisfy myself thoroughly that I was
really looking at the veritable Katie whom I had
clasped in my arms a few minutes before, and not
at the phantom of a disordered brain. She did not
speak, but moved her head and smiled in recognition.
Three separate times did I carefully examine Miss.
Cook crouching before me, to be sure that the hand
I held was that of a living woman, and three separate
times did I turn the lamp to Katie and examine her
with steadfast scrutiny, until I had no doubt what­
ever of her objective reality. At last Miss Cook
moved slightly, and Katie instantly motioned me' to
go away. I went to another part of the cabinet and
then ceased to see Katie, but did not leave the room
till Miss Cook woke up, and two of the visitors came
in with a light ” {Spiritualist, April 3rd, 1874),
APPENDIX1D
Ox the Need of a Conjurer's Training for under­
taking PsYcmcAt Research ,
(Quotation from “ Modem Spiritualism/* Bk* IV., cb, iL)
*
*It is hardly necessary to point the obvious moral*
, In the last chapter we learnt something of the
1 treachery that lies in the dark séance, and the blind
guidance of the sense of touch. From the present
study we may gather indications of the less obvious,
and, to many persons, still incredible shortcomings
of The most trusted and least trustworthy of our
senses. The untrained eye is no match for the trained
hand of, the conjurer* The kind of observation
demanded o f ,the investigators at a spiritualistic
■ séance-—
an observation which is alive to the ■
various
1X
0 APPENDIX D
artifices employed to distract it, and which, if not
. actually^ unremitting, is at least aware of its own
«lapses— is a quality not called for and not exercised
in the investigations of the physical laboratory, and
not to be acquired even to a moderate extent, except
by education of a very special kind. As we have
seen, even professional conjurers may prove deficient
in this special qualification. The labours of Mr,
Davey and Dr. Hodgson should compel us to admit
that no evidence for the so-called ‘ physical ' pheno­
mena of Spiritualism can be regarded as satisfactory,
which at any point depends upon continuous observa­
tion on the part of the investigator ” (pp. 221, 222).
The above paragraph comes after a passage containing
a practical illustration of the need of a conjurer's train­
ing for undertaking psychical research. For the author
of ** Modern Spiritualism ” describes what he saw, when
Mr, S. J. Davey produced some spirit-writing'on adoublé-'
hinged slate, which Mr. A. Podmore had locked before
pocketing the key :
“ Throughout the séance Davey kept up a con-
stant stream of chatter on matters more or less
germane to the business in hand. Mr. A. Podmore,
absorbed by the conjurer's patter, fixed his eyes on
Davey's face, and the latter took advantage of thè'
opportunity to remove the locked slate under cover
of a duster from under my brother's nose to the far
end of the room, and there exchange it for a similar
slate, with a previously prepared message, which was
then placed by means of the same manœuvre with
the duster in the position originally occupied by the
first slate. Then, and only then, the stream of talk
slackened, and Mr, A. Podmore's attention became
concentrated upon the slate, from which the sound
of spirit writing was now heard to proceed. To me
'the most surprising^
thing in the whole episode was
Mr, A. Podmore’s incredulity, when told that his
attention had been diverted from the slate for an
' appreciable period ” (loc, cit, voi, iL, p. 218).
APPENDIX E i n
APPENDIX E
Mr- M ask elyn e, M r. F a y , and the Davenport*
Brothers
In the June number of the Strand Magazine, 1910, Sir
Hiram Maxim described some performances seen fey
'Mm in America in early life, the essence of which con­
sisted in the success with which the performer, a Mr,
Fay, liberated himself in an apparently inexplicable
way. For he was scientifically bound with a rope, the
ends of which were knotted and sealed. It should,
however, be remarked that the performer was concealed
in a closed cabinet. Sir H. Maxim asserted that nothing
he had seen Mr. Maskelyne perform could be compared
for wonderfulness to the phenomena produced by Mr,
Fay. To this Mr. Maskelyne replied in the August
number, asserting that he ha„d in earlier life produced
phenomena by trickery quite as wonderful; but that
these tricks required suppleness and training, and
besides were getting stale after being performed for ten
years, so that he had given up doing them since 1B75, a
date before Sir H, Maxim came to England. As a
description of the type of trick he performed, Mr,
Maskelyne gave a cutting from the Birmingham Gazette,
June 24, 1865, which certainly justifies Mr. Maskelyne
in contending that his tricks were quite as wonderful
as those1
described by Sir H. Maxim, and runs as follows ;
“ TheDavenports Outdone.— Oh Monday even­
ing an opportunity was offered of witnessing, in
Jessops* Gardens, the tricks—for so they are described
— as performed by Messrs, Maskelyne and Cooke. A
plain and simply constructed cabinet was placed
upon a platform, in which the performers were
securely tied by two gentlemen from the audience,
Immediately upon the doors of the cabinet being
closed bells began to ring, tambourines were played,
and musical instruments pitched through the -aper- ,
ture. ' In less than a minute after the doors were
closed, they were thrown open again from the inside,
and the operators were found to be as firmly'and
securely tied as in the first instance. The musical
instruments were replaced in the cabinet, the1
doors
again closed, and in alew seconds the bells rang more
violently than ever, the tambourine appeared to- be
112 APPENDIX E
more eccentric in its movements, and naked hands
were thrust through the aperture. The doors were
• again thrown open as before, and the two performers
were found sitting calmly at either end of the cabinet,
bound hands and feet. A gentleman from ’the
audience then ascended the platform, was blind­
folded, placed upon a seat in the cabinet, and his
hands firmly tied to the knees of each of the operators.
As soon as the doors were closed, the bells, tambourine
and trumpet commenced their discordant discourse,
and came forth from the cabinet aperture as if released
from a temporary Bedlam.
" The doors again voluntarily opened, and the
blind-folded gentleman was seen to be seated as
when he first entered the cabinet, only that the
tambourine was upon his head instead of being <ppon
his knee.
" The succeeding trick, however, appeared to be
far more marvellous than any which preceded it.
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke remained bound as
before; the cords were sealed, and flour placed in
their hands. In this condition they were again
locked in the cabinet, two comets being placed in
the centre seat. Immediately upon the doors being
closed a duet was commenced upon the comets,
*
* Home, Sweet Home ” being the air selected for the
purpose. It was well played, and would have called
forth plaudits under ordinary circumstances, but in
this case the applause was immense. Upon the last
strain of the duet dying away, the doors were flung
open, the comets remained passive upon the seat,
where they had been originally placed, and the
operators sat as calmly and collectedly as if nothing
had occurred.
“ The ropes were inspected, and it was announced
that the seals had not been broken, nor had any of
the flour been spilled. The doors were again closed,
and in about four minutes the young men emerged
from the cabinet, perfectly unfettered, with the flour
still in their hands I
" But the most astonishing part of the programme
had yet to be accomplished. Mr. Maskelyne an*
nounced that he would be locked in a box three feet
long by two feet wide and eighteen inches in depth,
-that the box should be corded according to the fancy
: .of any. one present, and still, he would escape, ' '
APPENDIX F
“ An ordinary-looking deal box ol the dimensions
stated, with a few holes drilled in at either end, was
placed in the cabinet, and in this box Mr. Maskelyne
voluntarily immured himself. The box was locked,
and the key given to a gentleman called from the
audience, who corded up the box, an operation which
occupied fully six minutes. This having been done
to his satisfaction, bells were placed upon the box
and the doors of the cabinet were closed, but the click
of the bolt had scarcely died away ere the bells
began to be tremulous, and gradually increased to a
clatter, till at length they were pitched through the
aperture on to the platform, and in less than ten
minutes from the closing of the doors they were
again thrown open, and Mr. Maskelyne was seen
coolly seated in the box, and smilingly bowing his
acknowledgments of the applause with which he
was greeted. This is a trick which the Davenports
never attempted, and (as Barnum somewhere has it),
* It must be seen to be believed/ Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cooke were then bound by Mr. E. Lawrence and
Mr. Dallbw— the first-named being, we believe, one
of the gentlemen whose knot-tying somewhat per­
plexed the Brothers Davenport during their visit
here— an operation which lasted nearly twenty
minutes, but the exhibitors managed to free them­
selves from their bonds in about fifteen minutes.
Mr. Larvrence then explained to the audience that
he had seen the Brothers Davenport tied, and had
indeed assisted in that operation, but he would
venture to assert that those worthies were not tied
nearly so securely as their rivals had been. The
performance throughout was loudly applauded and
gave the greatest satisfaction.”
APPENDIX F
C
olley v. M
askelyne [April 1907]
Th
om
as Colley was Rector of Stockton, Warwickshire,
at the time of the trial. As a youth he went to Magdalen
College, Oxford, but never took a degree owing to want
of means. Subsequently he became an M.A. of Tennes­
see. He ■
was ordained in 1869 and became a priest in
1871*, It was in 1874 that he became a great friend of
APPENDIX F
114
an American medium, named Monck. Soon after this,
foe sailed as chaplain in H.M.S. Malabar, and was in
IJndia in 1876» wfoen Monck was sentenced to three
months’ imprisonment as a rogne and vagabond. On
bis return, foe resumed fois intimacy with Monck in the
year 1877, and in February 1878 took place the séance,
in the course of which Mr. Colley saw phenomena that
Maskelyne professed subsequently to be able to imitate.
He was nominated Archdeacon of Pietermaritzburg by
Bishop Colenso in 1879, and though Colenso died in
1883, he did not leave Natal till 18S8, when he ceased
to be Archdeacon. He had always taken an interest in
psychical subjects, and it occurred to him to go to the
Church Congress at Weymouth in 1905 and invite
criticism as to some of the incidents foe had seen in
Monoids rooms at Bloomsbury years before. No notice
was taken of fois suggestion, so foe delivered fois lecture
during the week of the Church Congress and proceeded
to have it printed by the thousand and to distribute it
as <
eA Lecture by the Ven. Archdeacon Colley, given at
Weymouth during the week of the Church Congress.”
The title of the pamphlet was Phenomena, Bewilder*
ing, Psychological.'* Its publication led to correspond­
ence in the Daily Telegraph, which included a letter
from Mr. Maskelyne on April 17th, 1906. Archdeacon
Colley replied in a private letter enclosing a challenge
offering to pay ¿1000 for a replica at Stockton Rectory
of Monck's performance. On April 23rd, 1906, Mas­
kelyne replied, saying that foe was willing any time to
give a replica at St. George’s Hall, but that at Stockton
Rectory it was too much trouble. Then, on May 29th,
Colley wrote as follows : " £1000 Challenge, by Arch­
deacon Colley (Dio. Natal), Rector of Stockton, War­
wickshire, for Mr. Maskelyne to do in any way, anywhere,
at any time, as a conjurer, what the St, George's Hall
illusionist declares Dr. Monck did by trickery. ^
On October 1st, 1906, Maskelyne wrote, saymg that
on the following Monday he should produce “ the
illusory effect which you have challenged me to produce,
and I shall claim the reward of ¿1000.” Colley went to
the performance on October 9th, and denied that
Maskelyne had given a replica of Monck’s performance*
He- also resented the statements contained in a pamphlet
' called " The History of a Thousand Pounds Challenge^
■which Maskelyne.distributed to the audience. In.this
if was asserted that the Rev, Thomas Colley was not an
APPENDIX F P I
Archdeacon, and had obtained a nomination for that
position under Bishop Coienso by false pretences. This
statement formed the basis of the alleged libel, and
Maskeiyne, for Ms part, counterclaimed £iooa as the
winner"of the challenge.
In the course of the trial, it came out that Monck got
his title of 1
1Dr.” from Philadelphia, that lie iras the
son of a butcher and had for a time been a Baptist
minister. But " Spiritualistic Manifestations ” broke
out when lie was preaching, and the congregation burnt
his church for him. Subsequently he practised as a
medium, and gave demonstrations at two guineas a
time. His repertoire included the usual business with
a musical box, spirit hands and other familiar physical
phenomena. At a séance in Huddersfield a Mr. H, B.
Lodge, an amateur conjurer, was present, who at the
conclusion charged Monck with using certain apparatus,
and promised him £50 if the musical box and other
apparatus was not found upon him. The other credulous
■sitters begged Monck to submit to be searched, but he
rushed at Mr. Lodge, attempted to strike him in the face
and then bolted upstairs to his bedroom, where he locked
the door and escaped with the aid of sheets from the
window. When the door was opened, “ the whole bag
of tricks ” was discovered in the room. For, as Mr*
Maskeiyne mote in “ The History of a Thousand Pound
Challenge/* “ an examination of Monck’s luggage
, revealed the fact that two large boxes and a lull-sized
travelling bath were filled with tricky apparatus, includ­
ing spirit hands, spirit masks, a large quantity of gauzy
material, a. spirit bird, ■apparatus for heating ■tarn-
J boulines, bells, spirit names, spirit lamps, and a number
\ of most incriminating documents. Mr. Lodge took
j’ possession of these articles with the intention of giving
! public exposures of Spiritualism. The police, however,
j took the matter out of his hands, and prosecuted Monck.
T The trial lasted three days, and Monck was sentenced to
i three months’ imprisonment, the maximum penalty.
1 f<What influenced the magistrates in inflicting so
J , ’severe a punishment were the incriminating docu-
j meats, which included disgustingly immoral letters
j ■
from both married and single women, with whom
Monck had intrigues under the cloak of Spiritualism
and the convenience of dark séances, In this respect
Monck was but a- fair specimen of professional
E (*•*)
1 x6 APPENDIX F
mediums, as a body, both men and women. I have
had good reason to know that they are immoral and
, , S ______-rwf cnintiiallRtlC Cr&TikS
blasphemous in the extreme, yet spiritualistic cranks
would have us believe that the wretches are specially
W O u iU U clV C US u w v v v .----- ----------- f , *
endowed by the Almighty with the power to raise
the spirits of the dead and create through then vile
bodies living entities of our loved ones^ who have
4crossed the bar.1 The idea is revolting.
In spite of these unfortunate facts about Monck, the
Rev. Thomas Colley, in his writings, compared him with
St Paul, and was in no way suspicious about the pheno­
mena he saw him perform. Thus, in the pamphlet above
mentioned, Archdeacon Colley wrote :
•
• Once (February xSth, 1878) by daylight it was
arranged as a most dangerous expenment that I
should grasp the white attired Egyptian and try to
keep him, from getting back to invisibility through
the^body of the medium (‘ Samuel?being m control),
and this is what happened, which ever since has made
me, when I have read them ponder over the words of
the apostle St. Paul, ‘ whether m the body or out of
the body, I cannot tell, God knoweth * (2 Cor. xn. 3)*
For I was, by an irresistible lores, levitated, as id
seemed, instantly some eighteen or twenty feet from
mv drawing-room door right up to where the medium
stood, whom strangely and suddenly, wearing white
muslin over his black coat, I found p my arms just
as I held the ‘ Mahedi.* The materialised form had
gone and the psychic clothing that had evolved
from & i Lit side oi my
with mm irorn rue *-----
have gone tbe same way, with the speed of thought
hack to invisibility through the medium. But
whence its substituted draper s staff n7 ? n r . r
body of our friend not wearing it an instant before ?
This quotation formed the subject of the following
cross-examination (The Times, April 27th. *9°7> P- *4) -
Mr. Gill. " You were dragged across the room ?
Arch. Colley. “ Not dragged, it w a s a matter of instant
impact. Instead of finding idle *Mahedi’ a * * * * » -
as lie had been a moment before, 3
.fourud the
T toot for a time a piece of the stuff substituted lor the
3 c clothing., It was not vulgar draper’s stuff, but
PS
APPENDIX F m
-
most delicate silky muslin. I put it in my bag, took it
to Leamington, and showed it to my wife; but it dis­
appeared in some mysterious way* After the impaict
I collapsed, and the medium collapsed.” . . . The wit­
ness then dealt with an incident, when, as he asserted,
the ” Mahedi,” standing some two yards from the
medium, chewed a baked apple, which the medium
afterwards spat out from his own mouth into a paper
bag. The witness produced the baked apple from the
paper bag, in which he had kept it ever since (for thirty
years), together with a grape skin and a chewed biscuit.
He stated" that this occurred in full daylight.
Dr. Alfred Wallace, F.R.S., D.C.L., LL.IX, was called
as a witness for the plaintiff, and said that as long ago
as 1862 he began to investigate the phenomena of
Spiritualism. In 1877 or 1878 he first met Dr, Monck.
He never met Mr. Colley till to-day. He met Monck
first on the first floor of a small house in Bloomsbury.
He had read the plaintiffs pamphlet very carefully.
He had himself seen, early in the afternoon, at the
house at Bloomsbury, almost identically the same
phenomenon as that described by the plaintiff in his
pamphlet. (The witness then gave a detailed descrip­
tion of the emanation, conduct, and subsequent absorp­
tion of a human form, which, shaping itself out of a
white cloud that came out of Monck’s side, while he was
in a state of trance, grew and gradually disappeared.)
He had not known that any other person had seen this,
and was very much struck when he read the description
in the plaintiffs pamphlet. The witness proceeded:
” I am absolutely certain that it could not have been
produced by a trick, even if Mr. Maskelyne had been
there with all his apparatus.” He had been to ' Mr,
Maskelyne’s performance to see if he reproduced the
phenomenon, The exhibition was *
*perfectly ludicrous.1
*
It was a lighted stage, instead of a small room and broad
daylight; there was none o f the white patch that came
out of Monck’s side and grew before his eyes, and at
the end the young lady walked away instead of being
gradually reabsorbed. If was " an absurd travesty,”
while the other was ” a most marvellous sight to
see,,.
Mr. GUL " Have you ever heard of a medium that
was hot exposed in the end ? ”
Dr, Wmaca, ” On'the contrary, I have heard of very
few, who were exposed, Monck was not caught in the '
APPENDIX G
118
act of trickery, Monck was a guest on the occasion,
and a demand was made that he should be searched,
a!*d he departed through the window.’*
APPENDIX G
(A) The Case of Dr. Astley’s Astral Body
(From The Times Weekly Edition, January ist, 1909)
A Case for the Psychical Research Society
The following letter, published on Tuesday in The
Times, has excited much interest.
' " The following may be considered worthy of
record; the circumstances are literally accurate :—
“ Last evening, between fonr and five, the house­
keeper here came in and said, *Come and see Dr.
Astley ’ (the vicar of this parish). ' See Dr. Astley ? *
I said, *Yes, Dr. Astley/ . .
“ She took me into the study and asked me to
look out of the window. I glanced over the lawn
and saw nothing. ' You are looking in the wrong
direction; look there/
" And there I saw the presentment of a clergyman
with a Cuddesdon collar gleaming white in the
gathering darkness (about 4.40). I turned and
looked behind me. ' It must be a reflection of
myself/ I said. That, however, was impossible,
“ I looked again more carefully. The vision repre­
sented a clergyman sitting at a table or desk with
books before him. I noticed also a gold chain across
Ms waistcoat (this is how Dr, Astley, the vicar here,
wore it). I had three or four views, and then went
outside and looked at the supposed wall against
which the figure was sitting. It was really an inlet
or alcove, and here, the housekeeper said, the vicar
used to sit and read in the summer time.
V 0 r, Astley is vicar of tMs parish, and left England
for Biskra, Algeria, pn December 10th. He and Ms
■
wife were in the railway accident in a tunnel, reported
no doubt by yon* I had a letter from the chaplain
; at Algiers giving details. If you think the above
; ■worthy of publication, yon may make any use you
APPENDIX G 1 x9
like of it. I have communicated with no other
paper*5
*
" R. Brock, Acting Vicos#?*
1
1 East R udham Vicarage,
“ King’sLynn, December zyth”
It is a curious coincidence perhaps that the apparition
should have been observed at this Christinas season,
when ghost stories are particularly appropriate* Hap­
pily, this is no ghost story in the popular sense, for a
telegram from Algiers on Tuesday established beyond
doubt that Dr. Astley, the vicar of the parish, was
alive, and yet the vision was witnessed again that
evening both by Mr. Brock and the housekeeper at the
vicarage.
Dr, Astley, who has been vicar of East Rudham since
1896, left England with Mrs, Astley on December 10th
for Algiers, Mrs. Astley has not been in good health
of late, and Dr. Astley accepted the chaplaincy of Biskra,
Algeria, lor three months, in the hope that the residence
in a warmer climate would be of benefit to her. It was
arranged that the Rev. R. Brock, vicar of Criggion,
Montgomeryshire, in the diocese of Hereford, should
come to East Rudham to act as locum lenens, Mr,
Brock met Dr. Astley for the first time in London,
December 9th, and spent half an hour with him before
coming down to Norfolk. He heard nothing more, of
Dr. Astley until Saturday last, the 26th, On that day
he received a letter from the Rev, Herbert C. Muriel,
English chaplain at Algiers, announcing that Dr. Astley
and Ms wife had sustained injuries, not of a very serious
character apparently, in a railway accident in a tunnel
near Mansourah, on the line between Algiers and Biskra.
The accident occurred on Wednesday, the 16th, and
the chaplain’s letter was dated the 20th. , The train
from Algiers, while in the tunnel, came into collision
with a disabled goods train, and, the brake and couplings
having' given way, the passenger train ran backwards
down a steep incline and dashed over an embankment, ■
Dr. and Mrs. Astley, who were in a restaurant car, were
buried in the débris, and when they were rescued, it
was found that Dr, Astley had received a bad cut on
the1head and several other contusions, while one of
Mrs, Astley*s legs was broken, and she had also sustained
serious bruises about the face and body. They were
taken to. the French, hospital at Bougie; but the chap-
120 A P P E N D IX G
lain stated that he was making arrangements for their
rem oval to the English hospital at Algiers, where they
wChld be tended by trained nurses later.
On Saturday, while Mr, Brock was seated in the
dining-room at East Rudham Vicarage, the housekeeper
summoned him, as he stated in Ms letter to The Timest
to fi com e and see Dr. Astley ” in the study. The
housekeeper, according to her own story, had gone into
the study, which adjoins the dining-room, in order to
close the window-shutters. Now, the study is a small
room with a door opening on to the lawn. The upper
part of the door is of glass, and there is also a large
window adjoining the door. On the left of the door
outside is a glass conservatory at right angles with it,
on the right is a blank wall (part of the dining-room),
also at right angles with the study. Mrs. Hartley had
no sooner approached the door window than she saw-
through the glass a figure which she declares was that
of Dr, Astley,
The following statements of the three principal actors
in this little drama were dictated to our representative
on W ednesday afternoon at the Vicarage by the Rev. R*
Brock, Mrs."Hartley, and the housemaid, Florence
Breeze, respectively.
Statement by Mrs. Hartley
Mrs. Hannah Hartley said :
" I am seventy years of age. I came to the vicarage
as housekeeper at the end of July last, or beginning of
August. I had been living in Norwich before that time.
On Saturday, December 26th, Mr. Brock read to me a
letter which he had received from the chaplain at
Algiers, describing the injuries which Dr. Astley and
Mrs. Astley had sustained in a railway accident. About
4.30 p.m. on that day I went into the study to close
the window-shutters, ' As I walked towards the outer
door, the upper part of which is of glass, I saw Dr.
Astley come round the corner of the house, as though
' he were going to enter the door, as he often did, He
•was,holding a paper in his hand as though he wanted
to give it to me. He was dressed in black, and I saw
■ his white collar’ distinctly; H e was without a hat, I
.opened the- door and'was just going to s a y ,' Fancy you
■p in g ''b a c k /'w h e n he went towards the dining-room
A P P E N D IX G 121
wall. There appeared to be a light about the figure,
something like a halo. The night was quite dark* I
continued to look through the glass, and the figure
there against the wall. He looked at me three or four
times* Then I called the girl, Flam e, and, having
obtained a candle, we came together into the study* I
put the candle on a chair and looked through the window.
The figure was there plainer than ever. I placed the
girl beside me, and said : ' Tell me what you see, if you
see anything." She said ; r I see the Master, Mr. A stley/
Then 1 went for Mr. Brock. I put him in position at
the window. He could not see anything at first; but
on looking sideways towards the wall, said ; ‘ I can see
Mm quite plainly. He has a collar like mine, and a
chain across his w aistcoat/ Then I looked again and
saw that Dr. Astley had changed his position, and was
sitting at a desk. He still had the paper in his hand,
but was not holding it out to me any longer. I closed
the shutters; but as we were leaving the window Mr,
Brock said, *Let us look again, and see if he is still
there/ I re-opened the shutters, and the figure was
still there in a sitting position. This time he was hold­
ing the paper out again. I saw his hand and cuff
clearly,, and noticed two rings on the hand. Next' we
got a lantern and went into the garden, There was
nothing on the wall, and nobody in the garden. This,,
was about 4.45, so that I saw the doctor for about a
quarter of an hour altogether. I returned to the study
again and opened the shutter, but nothing was to be
seen. •I noticed nothing more until Tuesday, the 29th,
A t 5.15 p.m., when I went to close the shutters, I saw
Dr. Astley’s figure against the wall in the same position
as before, standing with a paper in his hand. He held
the paper out to me. I called the girl Florrie, but she
could not come. I fetched Mr. Brock into the room
and got a candle. W hen we returned to the window, the
figure was still there, but it was disappearing. It was
only there a few minutes. On this occasion there was a
little light from the moon. A bout 7,13 the same even­
ing I went into the study with Mr* Brock and the repre­
sentative of The Times. I Carried a candle, which I put
on a chair. On opening the shutters I again saw the
figure against the wall, still holding a paper. ( On look­
ing again, I saw that Dr. Astley was’ not in 'black, but
was wearing his,cassock and surplice, with a stole, over
Ms shoulders, T he stole was o f white and, g o ld ., The
122 A P P E N D IX G
figure was there for quite ten minutes. It was there
when I closed the shutter/9
The Housemaid's Account
Florence Breeze, aged seventeen, housemaid, said ;
“ I came to the vicarage early in December, about a
week before Mr. and Mrs. Astley left England. On
December 26th, soon after 4.30, Mrs. Hartley called me
into the study and told me to stand against the window.
She had a candle which she placed on a chair close by.
She asked me what I could see. I looked through the
window and saw Dr. Astley. Fie was dressed in black
and had a white paper in his hand. He was reading
the paper. He was sitting at a table with books in
front of him. He looked just as I have seen him in the
study. I saw the figure for about five minutes. On
December 29th Mrs. Hartley asked the to go to the
study window again, but I was nervous and did not
go.”
My. Brock's Account
The Rev. Robert Brock said ;
" I was seated in the dining-room of the Vicarage
about 4.40 p.m. on December 26th when the house­
keeper came and said : ' Come and see Dr. Astley/ I
followed her into the study. She had a candle which
she placed on a chair. She said, ' Now look/ I looked
through the window across the lawn expecting to see
somebody walking about there whom she had mistaken
for Dr. Astley. I said, *I can see nothing/ She said,
*You are looking at the wrong place. Look there/
She pointed towards the wall, which, with its buttress,
juts out at right angles with the study walk I said,
4Why, there is a clergyman there/ noticing the white
collar almost shining out from the semi-darkness. I
turned round and looked into the room to see if by any
chance there was a refection of myself. Not only was
this impossible, but on looking again outside very care­
fully, I observed a clear outline of a face with a short
beard (my face is clean shaven), a full view of a waist­
coat with the coat thrown open, and across the waist­
coat, from pocket to pocket, a heavy gold albert. I
said to the housekeeper, ' I see a gold chain right across
the chest/ ' Oh/ she said, 4that is the way Dr. Astley
always wears' his chain/ I told her to take the candle
4
' A P P E N D IX G ' 123
out of tlie room. She did so, and the room was in
darkness. 1 looked out and still saw the figure sitting,
as it seemed to me, behind a desk with some .bool^xm
front of Mm. 1 saw no paper in Ms hand. He was
not looking at me, and seemed to be engaged in thought,
as a studious man might be. 1 went out of the house,
taking a lantern with me, and inspected the wall against
which I had seen the figure. There was nothing what­
ever to be seen except the dark wall. 1 came back to
the study and looked out again and could just see the
wall, but no figure. Previously I had not seen the wail
through the window. The time during which 1 actually
saw the figure was about five minutes. 1 saw nothing
in the nature of a halo. 1 am firmly convinced that
what I saw was as real to me at the time as if Dr. Astley
had actually been there. On December 29th, at 5.15,
the housekeeper summoned me to the study window
again. I could just discern a very dim outline. It was
then disappearing. I saw the collar dimly, but not the
chain, and could not make out the face. There was a
little moonlight, and it was not so dark as on the 26th.
W e went into the study later the same evening, and the
housekeeper said she saw Dr. Astley in his surplice. I
saw nothing/*
As for previous visions on the part of the percipients,
Mr. Brock and the housemaid have experienced none,
but Mrs. Hartley has numerous stories of such things
■to relate.
On Wednesday a letter was received from the chap­
lain, written on December 26th, showing that on
December 26th Dr, Astley was suffering from concussion
of the brain, and was presumably unconscious, Mr.
Brock, commenting on this, suggested to the repre­
sentative of The Times that it might probably form' an
explanation of the mysterious apparition, " My own
impression on Saturday/* he said, ,f having had no
previous experience of these things, was that Dr. Astley
was dead, Now it would really appear that when we
saw his figure outside the study window, he was in a
state of unconsciousness or delirium, and that in some
mysterious way he was able to project himself in living
form to his home in England, where perhaps, at,th e
time, he supposed himself to be. It remains to be seen
whether this explanation will commend itself to scientists
and students of the supernatural/*
1 2 4 A P P E N D IX G
(From The Times Weekly Edition, January 8th, 1909)
have received the following telegram from the
Rev. H. C. Muriel, British chaplain at Algiers, dated
December 31st:
" Dr. Astley is very amused. At the precise
moment of the alleged astral appearance, allowing
for the difference of Greenwich time, Dr. Astley was
not in clerical garb, wearing a gold chain, at a book-
laden desk, but was quietly resting in bed in the
hospital, conversing with me about his lost luggage"
Both patients are doing well; the concussion is
disappearing, and rest is needed.”
This message from Mr. Muriel, which refers, evidently,
to the first alleged astral appearance on December 26th"
disposes of the theory that the vicar of East Rudharn,
while unconscious, was able'" to project himself in living
form to his home in England.” Dr. Astley was not
unconscious at the time when Ms " double ” appeared
to the household at the vicarage, nor, apparently, were
his thoughts concerned with the affairs of his parish.
The mysterious occurrences at East Rudham therefore
remain unexplained. The acting vicar, the house­
keeper, and the housemaid are still convinced that they
saw " something,” which they believed to be the figure
of Dr. Astley. Mr. Brock, indeed, has repeatedly " cross-
questioned ” himself—to use his own phrase—as to
whether by any possibility he can have been deceived,
and he has come to the " perfectly unquestionable con­
clusion ” that he was not deceived. Mr. Brock's abso­
lute positiveness about the matter would appear to
render less convincing the theory, which is doubtless
entertained pretty widely, that Mrs. Hartley, the
visionary, unconsciously invented the scene outside the
study window, and by the influence of her own mind
caused the others to imagine that they saw it too. Mr.
Brock, a middle-aged clergyman, who has travelled
widely and has had long experience of life in the Colonies
—-both in Queensland and in South Africa-—does not
give one the impression that he is likely to be easily
influenced by an old woman’s fancies. Then there is
the housemaid. She did not know what to expect when
,?ho was called into, the, study by the housekeeper. She
told to look through the window and say what she
A P P E N D IX G'
saw— if she saw anything. Dr. Astley’s name was not
mentioned until she pronounced it herself.
This account of the case of Dr, Astley’s astral body
requires no comment from me, as all that need be said
is contained in a letter from Mr. D. F, Shearer, published
among the correspondence which interest in the case
called forth,
“ Sir,
" It is almost a pity to spoil the story of a
Christmas ghost in the twentieth century; it there
were only some small addition of clanking chains,
sepulchral voice, hidden crime, or concealed will,
one might hesitate to introduce the science of optics
as a basis for criticism. Unimaginative scientific
men will, however, point out that the glass panel of
the door through which the ghostly book-shelves
were seen is a mirror in which the material book­
shelves are always reflected, the reflection becoming
visible to the eye when the light outside is less intense
than the light within the room. This phenomenon
can be readily seen in the window of a railway
carriage at night or when passing through a dark
tunnel. The next optical point is the condition of
the observer's eyes. A t the age of the housekeeper,
the power of accommodation has disappeared* a n d ,
hence, if the image of the .book-shelves is in focus,
the door and the wall outside are out of focus; add
to that a predisposition to see ghosts and a mental
concentration on a particular person, and the
observer’s brain will believe that it perceives dis­
tinctly this individual, when in fact the eye sees only
an indistinct and blurred object, which has acci­
dentally some resemblance to a human being.
, *' That this is the true explanation is shown by the
statements of the other observers; the clergyman,
by profession a believer in spirits, with Ms mind also
concentrated on the absent vicar, is also of an age
when accommodation is defective. He too sees the
ghost, but not so definitely. The journalist, younger,
,with more active accommodation, not professionally
a believer in spirits, having his mind quite unpossessed
by concern for the absent vicar, sees the reflection
of the book-shelves, but not the ghost.
“ The publication of this ghost story is really of
126 A P P E N D IX G
great value, because the solution shows how little
mystery there is in these tales, and how easily one
«■^can be deceived by an optical delusion of whose
nature one is ignorant. Such deceptions are well
known to psychologists, and in any modem work
prints will be found in which the figures will not keep
still, but are continually changing in number and
appearance. If you have space, you might add one
of these' ghostly ’ pictures ,
* it would be an interesting
study for those of your readers who are ghost lovers
on New Year's Eve.”
( B ) T h e C a s e o f M r . a n d M r s . A m e s , I l l u s t r a t i n g
t h e V a l u e o f t h e A l l e g e d " C r o s s i n g o f
L e t t e r s , ” a s E v i d e n c e f o r T e l e p a t h y
T h e following case may be taken as typical of " psychic ”
experiences, quoted in support of telepathy, in which
letters are said to have crossed. The supposed facts are
contained in a letter to the Daily News, of September
nth, 1911, from Mr. and Mrs. Hugo Ames.
“ S i r ,
" Our attention has been directed to the
challenge and offer of ¿1000 to prove telepathy.
My husband, Mr. Hugo Ames, and I have sent to
Mr. Matthew Jarvis, solicitor, who advertised, our
evidence, which is as follows : * In August—to be
exact, on August 21st, 1908—I was in London in my
own flat one afternoon, occupied in writing for one
of Harmsworth's papers, when suddenly my pen
stopped, and wrote “ consciousness ” three times.
Then, stopping, I realised that I was being asked,
urged, to write or discover something on conscious­
ness. Almost immediately I felt I was in telepathic
communication with Mr. Hugo Ames (I was then Mrs.
Northesk Wilson). He was staying at Lysways Hall,
in Staffordshire, and I was aware that he was writ­
ing his new work, “ Man, the God.” The telepathic
demand was so exactly as if I had heard him say
he was " stuck ” on this point. I got up and went to
my book-shelves, and took down a book containing
an article by Annie Besant on Bose’s description of
consciousness in the vegetable and animal kingdom.
■ I then put my own papers aside and began to write
' 1on my own experiences of consciousness, supple-
A P P E N D IX G 127
merited by Bose’s theory, I caught the post, and
sent Mr. Ames this paper, with a letter telling him
why. The next morning, August 22nd, I receiv ers
telegram: W onderful! Letters crossed. Discovered
Bose’s theory yesterday.”
“ *This telegram, dated from Lysways, came a
little while before the post which brought me a letter
asking me to help him on this su b ject! Every one
who knows us notices the wonderful affinity of
thought, and we have proved that telepathy is of
daily occurrence between us, and tills complete har­
m ony of feeling seems to run through the whole
thread of our lives, making life very much worth
living, as it seems to point to a unity of understand­
ing, and comes back in some marvellous way to vibra­
tory sympathy. So much so, that it means more
than telepathy. For if m y husband writes music,
instantly I find words to put to the melody, and if
we exchange the position at the piano the result is
, the same. Sometimes a certain humour attaches
- itself to this telepathy, when at Christmas we go out
separately, and bu y the same presents for the same
members of the fam ilyi *
“ Flora A mes,
“ H. L. A mes.
" (The original telegram has been sent to M r,’
Jarvis.) ”
In this letter Mr, and Mrs. Ames make the following ,
definite assertions : (1) That on the afternoon of August
21st, 1908, Mrs* Ames’ pen wrote, more or less'auto­
matically, the word ” consciousness ” three times.
(2) That, as the result of this, Mrs, Ames (who was not
at that time married to Mr. Ames, and was named Mrs.
N. Wilson) felt impelled to write a letter to Mr. Ames
on the subject of consciousness and Bose’s theory in
particular, (3) That Mr. Ames, on receipt of this letter
by the morning post of August 22nd, sent a telegram:
*
* W onderful! Letters crossed. Discovered Bose’s
,theory yesterday.” (4) That this telegram was received
by Mrs. Ames on the morning of August 22nd, and that
’ it was followed a little while after by a letter■
written
b y Mr. Ames the previous day. (5) That Mn Ames*
’ letter was posted on August 21st— lor this is implied
' in the statement that the letters crossed— before the
■
receipt of Mrs, Ames1letter.
128 A P P E N D IX G
After such a clear statement it will probably come as
a surprise to the reader to learn that the evidence sent
tsi JJlr. Jarvis was very different in several particulars
from the assertions made in their letter. But such is
indeed the case I And the telegram, which happily has
been kept, so far from corroborating the details, actually
discredits the s to r y ! For the following are the differ­
ences :
1. Mrs. Ames’ (at that time Mrs. N. Wilson) pen did
not write “ consciousness ” three times. In the evidence
submitted to Mr. Jarvis, it is said to have written:
*#Consciousness— Theory of Consciousness— Plants. Can
you help me ? ”
2. The telegram is not “ dated from Lysways.” It
was handed in at Longdon, Staffordshire, at 11.15 a.m.,
and received in London (Sloane Square) at 12.6 p.m.
(noon) : so it was not received till the afternoon of
August 22nd.
3. The words “ Letters crossed ” are not in the original
telegram. The actual words are: “ Wonderful discovered
Bose’s theory yesterday began letter to you on this as yours
arriving Hugh.” From the sense of the telegram the
word *
*yesterday ’* obviously belongs to the words
which precede it; consequently it is clear that no cross­
ing of letters took place, and that Mr. Ames had not
posted any letter to Mrs. Ames at the time of sending
off the telegram, which was probably an hour or two
later than the hour at which he received her letter.
Further, if the two letters had crossed, the one from
Mr. Ames would have come by the morning post, and
would have preceded the telegram; whereas we are told
that Mr. Ames’ telegram came “ a little while ” before
the post that brought his letter. Flow long a period of
time “ a little while ” is meant to cover is not clear,
though it is clear that the letter from Mr. Ames cannot
have come till the afternoon or evening of August 22nd,
and possibly not till the morning of August 23rd,
Thus, in this case we have at least three points in
which the narrators have shown their incapacity for
recording facts accurately; and though the first two
points are not of vital importance to the story, the third
is, and the statement that " letters crossed ” is an
.actual invention. ■
Curiously enough, their own letter itself proves that
'/Mr.' and Mrs. Ames do not possess telepathic powers.
A P P E N D IX H
For, if they did, they surely would not be foolish enough
to “ buy the same presents for the same members of the
family ” ! If this is a fact, all it suggests is that they
have similar tastes and intellectual sympathies. *
The reader must not think that Mr. and Mrs. Ames
were deliberately trying to deceive the public when they
wrote their letter. Their bona fides is clear. And so is-
the moral of this story—namely, the worthlessness of
accounts of <
f telepathic ” experiences, uncorroborated
by documentary evidence.
APPENDIX H
t h e d i f f i c u l t i e s o f t e l e p a t h y
T h e argument in support of telepathy on which Podmore
lays stress, and on which Sir Oliver Lodge mainly relies
in his reply to Professor Newcomb (Nineteenth Century,
February 1909, p. 206), is that the results of the census
or inquiry made by the S.P.R. in 1887—
89 into the occur­
rence of hallucinations and the frequency of coincidental
correspondence with the death of the person ^seen,
prove that mere chance cannot be the explanation of
this coincidence. The report is published in the tenth
volume of the Proceedings of the S.P.R., and a very clear
account of the matter is given in Podmore’s Telepathic
Hallucinations,” p. 32. Briefly, the argument is as
follows : During the decade 1881-1890 the annual death-
rate was 19*15 per 1000. Therefore the probability that
any person taken at random would die within any given
twenty-four hours was 19*15 in 365,000 ~ about 1 m
19,000. Now, the S.P.R. found that there were 1684
among 17,000 apparently normal persons (9*9 per cent.)
who remembered having experienced a sensory hallucina­
tion at some time in their lives. Of these cases there
were 322 in which there was a recognised realistic appari­
tion of the human figure (doubtful cases being ignored).
Of these, again, sixty-two are reported to have coincided
with a death. Then, after making “ liberal allowance ”
for unconscious exaggeration and forgetfulness, the Com­
mittee came to the conclusion that there^exists a coinci­
dence between hallucination and death in one case out
of forty-three cases of hallucination. But if there is no
causal connection between the hallucination ^and the
.death, we should find only one coincidence m 19,000
cases* .
130 APPENDIX H
TM$ argument is certainly impressive, but loses con­
siderable weight from the fact that the report is based
op, only 17,000 persons ont of“ the whole community,
andsfchat a “ liberal allowance ” for unconscious exaggera­
tion and forgetfulness is, to say the least, an unsatis­
factory link in the chain. Further, it is to be noted
that this argument, if its cogency be admitted, is not
m favour of telepathy in particular, but only of some
causal connection between hallucinations and deaths.
And in many such cases it is clear that the percipient
was aware of the illness of the person seen, so that a
train of thought might easily have been set np, which
would naturally determine the character of an hallucina­
tion, and possibly be an exciting cause of its occurrence
about the hour of death. Such an explanation is “ on
all fours ” with the suggestion Podmore himself throws
out to explain the repeated occurrence of sensory
hallucinations in certain localities (haunted houses) ;
for he writes :
We have, then, the following sequence of events.
First, loud and mysterious sounds, probably due to
normal causes. Second, a state of uneasiness and
apprehension amounting in some cases to actual panic
in the occupants. Third, the appearance of manifold
ghostly figures, sometimes of a terrifying character.
• The sequence is repeated again and again in the best
authenticated narratives, those in which the incidents
are recorded near the date of their happening, and
it seems permissible to suggest that the sequence is
a causal one~~that real sounds, exaggerated and mis­
interpreted, induced in nervous persons a state of
uneasy expectancy, and that this nervous state in
its turn gave rise to hallucinations. We find a some­
what similar state of nervous expectancy with con-
comitanthallucinations at some spiritualistic séances.”
(“ Telepathic Hallucinations,” p. 123),
I must now point out what a real and important
fallacy unconscious exaggeration introduces. For, as I
have already stated in a note on p. 74, the late M.
Vaschide, assistant director^of the laboratory of patho­
logical psychology at the École des Hautes Études in
Paris, showed by researches, published in 1908, that:
96-per cent, of the subjective hallucinations among his
friends, said to be veridical, did not correspond to any
' objective reality whatever,, and that the supposed veri­
A P P E N D IX H
dical coincidences in these cases were wholly a figment
of the imagination. And he obtained these results from
as many as 1374 hallucinatory experiences, ,studied Erst
hand. Consequently, if we deduct 96 per cent, from
the supposed veridical cases in the census of the S.P.R.,
we shall not have left more cases than can be accounted
for by-chance-coincidence.
But it m ay be asked, Have we any justification for
applying M. Vaschide’s results to the S.P.R. census,
seeing that the cases, before appearing therein, under­
went a certain amount of sifting ? ” To any such ques­
tion the answer is given by the article, already referred
to, written by Mr. Taylor Innés in the Nineteenth Century
(Vol. X X II., pp. 174-194, 1887), where he shows that
“ Phantasms o f the Living,” written the previous year
by Messrs. Gurney, Myers, and Podmore, is characterised
by “ a systematic relaxation of all ordinary rules ” of
careful investigation in the matter of documentary
evidence. Now, Gurney, Myers, and Podmore were
three of the most active members of the S.P.R. at that
time and the census was largely based on cases appearing
in their book. For " Phantasms of the Living *
* com
tamed 702 numbered and selected cases “ out of over
2000 depositions which seemed prima facie to deserve
attention.” Of these 702 cases, 315 came to the authors
second-hand, and so were put in a supplement; but
upwards of 350 are cases in which the main account
came directly from the percipient to the editors. These
350 cases, after investigation by the editors, were passed
as coming up to their standard, and in most o f’ them
they showed conclusively that the event said to have
been perceived really took place; but they gave practi­
cally no evidencè that the percipients at a distance felt
or perceived at the time of the event what they after­
wards said they did. Indeed, their laxity in printing
certain stories without documentary evidence is par­
ticularly striking in some twenty or more cases in which
we are told that an epistolary document was issued at
the time, or that letters are said to have crossed, the
production of which, with an official date and postmark,
would have proved conclusively the truth of the per­
cipient’s story of a vision. And there are at least a
hundred cases where the narrative implies that docu­
mentary corroboration could reasonably be demanded,
Y et of the 702 cases, including 350 first-hand narratives,
there is not one case in which the indefatigable editors
A P P E N D IX H
132
have *seen or ascertained * a letter or document issued
at the time by the narrator, so as to prove his story to
be true,” Mr, Innes therefore lays, in his conclusions;
“ I am not aware of anything which can account for
this, unless it be that this whole class of stories is without
real foundation.”
Again, a point which the Committee ^
seem to have
ignored is the average age of the perceived person at
the time of death. This, to my mind, is an important
factor; as, if the average age was over sixty, the expect­
ancy of life would be lessened. For if it is true that the
chance of any person taken at random dying on a
particular day is one in 19,000, then the chance that, of
persons over sixty, a particular one taken at random
will die on a particular day is greater than one m 19,000.
Another point which Podmore makes clear in a tabu­
lated summary of the census report is that out of 1112
cases of visual hallucinations there were 830 of realistic
human apparitions and only 25 of animals. Now, in
the evidence for telepathy, I have come across instances
of the apparition of a beloved dog at the moment of
death, as in the case quoted on p. 71» so that if the
mind of a favourite dog can affect at a distance the mind
of its master, we should expect numerous examples of
this class of case. But, judging from the census report,
it is at least thirty times rarer than that of human
apparitions. If, then, chance coincidence is admitted
to be a satisfactory explanation of this class of case,
where there is no reason to believe that knowledge of a
dog’s illness had started a worrying train of thought, I
cannot see why the same explanation should not apply
with even greater force to cases of human apparitions.
For the illness of a friend or relative would be more
likely than that of a dog to start an anxious train of
thought resulting in an hallucination; and so the dis­
crepancy in the two sets of figures would be naturally
explained. As regards the cases where the apparition
of a dog coincided with its death, I am afraid that it
will never be possible to form even an approximate
estimate of what the numbers should be on a basis of
pure chance. For, on the one hand, those cases in which
there was a correspondence between the apparition and
hour of death would be just those which would be
remembered, and, on the other hand, the death-rate of
'/■
'¡d
jogs- can, hardly be calculated. However, owing to
numerous causes, of which their shorter life and liability
A P P E N D IX H I33
to accident are the chief, one would be justified in
assuming, I think, that the death-rate among dogs must
be greater than among 'human beings, and so in favour
of chance as an explanation of coincidence between
apparition and death in those cases where the illness
of a dog had not started a subconscious train of anxious
thought.
So much for the chief argument in support of tele­
pathy. I will now consider some of the other difficulties
with which the subject abounds. In experiments on
thought-transference— a name sometimes given to the
experimental transference of an idea or a mental picture
from an agent to a percipient at close quarters, in con­
tradistinction to “ telepathy,” which is then used for
the subconscious transmission, through practically any
distance, of ideas, generally bound up with personality—
the intervention of a floor or wall, or sometimes even
of a screen, between the agent and percipient (sec an
account of experiments with cards described in Sir
Oliver Lodge’s ” Survival of Man,” p. 58) puts an end
to a successful result; and it may not unfairly be said,
in the words o f Professor Newcomb, d propes of experi­
ments in thought-transference ; " Possibly you may
succeed, but the more pains you take to avoid tall
sources of error, the less likely success will be ” (Nine­
teenth' Century, January 1909, p. 132). On the other
hand, Podmore, whom I take as the most critical writer
I know, with a tendency to believe in telepathy, makes
it perfectly plain in his numerous writings that the
evidence for spontaneous telepathy points to its occur­
ring quite readily at a distance without any conscious
effort on the part of agent or percipient. This applies
mainly to cases o f’ sensory hallucinations, but is also
true of some of the apparently successful experiments of
Miss Kamsden and Miss Miles, who exchanged postcards
every day, recording what they had been thinking of o r ,
had perceived (Journal S.P.R., June 1908, and Proc.
S.P.K., Vol. X X L , p. 60). Consequently it looks as if
the same telepathic explanation cannot logically be
given both to experimental thought-transference, where
the agent concentrates' his mind on the mental picture
to be transferred, and to telepathic hallucinations,
'where the processes are carried out quite subconsciously.
Again, in telepathic hallucinations there is no •
uni­
form ity' which would imply the existence of a faculty
operating by definite laws. Thus, if we examine the
134 APPENDIX PI
seven examples of telepathic hallucinations which Pod-
more has selected as among the best verified instances
o f the kind for illustrating the argument in the first
chapter of his book, “ Telepathic Hallucinations; The
New View of Ghosts/’ we find the following remarkable
diversity :
In No. i the percipient (a lady) ‘sees, about 8.30 p.m.,
the figure of a friend (a man) wearing a cap, which she
had never seen him wear before, at a time when she had
no reason to think he was ill, and when he was lying in
bed unconscious a long distance off, owing to the rather
sudden onset of an illness from which he did not die for
another six days.
In No. 2 a young lady saw the figure of her fiancé
about 12.30 noon, which corresponded more or less with
the hour of his death at a time when she had no reason
to think he was seriously ill, although his sister had
written three days before to say he had a cold, and
could not keep an engagement made for that evening.
In No. 3 a child of twelve saw, about 9.30 a.m., the
figure of a page-boy who had died two hours before.
The figure was dressed in the working ^
clothes worn by
the page-bov when he was in the service of the child's
mother.
In No. 4 the figure of a young man appeared about
2.30 a.m., to the mother of his fiancee, three hours after
his death from a wound received during his participation
in an insurrectionary movement in Rio de Janeiro. The
figure was dressed in the clothes which the young man
usually wore at home, and not in the clothes he was
wearing at the time of his death.
In No. 5 a clergyman saw, about 10.30 p.m., the figure
of an old friend, whom he had not seen for ten or eleven
years, several days after his death.
In No. 6 three ladies saw the figure of an unknown
man about 9.45 p.m. in a room lighted only by the street
lamp outside. Two of them first caught sight of the
figure reflected in a mirror.
In No. 7 there is an account of a house haunted by a
figure which, apparently, was that of a child eight years
old, who had died in the house thirty years before.
;' '’This diversity suggests that there may be more than
'■one explanation for cases like these, taken as a whole,
■as; for example, in No. 6, the suggestion that there was,
4
A P P E N D IX H x35
a real man present might be a possible explanation.
Further, the combination of probable and improbable
details, as, for example, in No, x, the cap worn by the
figure, suggests that the same processes are at % ork
which so often produce those absurd combinations
characteristic of dreams; and dreams are admittedly
the product of unconscious cerebral processes, often
started by a train of thought before going to sleep. In
this case, if telepathy were given as an explanation, we
should have to assume that either the unconscious man
was subconsciously thinking of himself wearing the cap
in question, or that some friend in the neighbourhood
was doing so. But in all these cases there is considerable
uncertainty as to whether the percipients felt at the time
of the event what they afterwards said they did, for
Mr. Innes’s criticism of “ Phantasms of the Living
applies here too.
Vagueness of detail in the evidence for telepathy often
leaves so much room for variety of interpretation accord­
ing to bias, that, as in the case of hallucinations said to
be veridical, unconscious exaggeration and forgetfulness
have always to be taken into account. In the case,of
experiments with Mrs. Piper, bias has played a-very
great part in the interpretation of the records, and one
of the subtlest and perhaps most important sources of
fallacy is the unreliability of the memory. In so many
cases the value of the evidence depends'entirely on the
statement, made with absolute assurance by one or
more persons, that they are certain that never in the
course of their lives have they been aware of the facts
seen in a vision or mentioned in a thought-transference
experiment. Thus one of the most recent examples of
a case of supposed telepathy of this kind is the experi­
ence of two ladies, published by them under the title of
“ An Adventure {Macmillan & Co,, 1911), recording a
vision or waking hallucination in which they noted
details which they afterwards found were historically
accurate; details, the knowledge of which they state
had never at any time been possessed by their conscious
minds. As the incident is so well known, I think it
forms an interesting case to discuss here, although in
many respects it possesses unique features, and was
not reported with sufficient scientific accuracy to enable
„one to be certain of the facts underlying the experience,
so that the attempt to give1a serious explanation to a
single experience pf this kind is very unsatisfactory.
136 *A P P E N D IX H
In this adventure the ladies, on a hot August after­
noon at Versailles in 1901 (the day of the month is not
given), lost their way after lunch in the grounds close
to tEe Petit Trianon, and wandered among woods and
along paths which they afterwards found had no exist­
ence, but which historical research gave^ them some
reasons for supposing had existed in the time of Louis
XVI* Not only this, for they talked to two gardeners;
and a young man, heavily cioaked, who came running
after them, appearing and disappearing from nowhere,
directed them in the direction of the Petit Trianon.
Then they both saw a gentleman, whose face wore an
odious expression and was marked with smallpox, sitting
on the steps of a kiosk; and while one of them, towards
the end of the adventure, saw a lady sketching close to
the terrace of the Petit Trianon, the other, at the begin­
ning, saw a woman handing a jug to a girl at the door
of a cottage. They noted, more or less clearly, the
dresses worn by all these persons, and found in subse­
quent years by historical inquiry that they seemed to
accord with the fashions of the dresses which were worn
respectively by the gardeners, villagers, and courtiers
at the Petit Trianon, and by Marie Antoinette herself,
about the year 1790. Finally, on ascending the terrace
of the Petit Trianon and looking in at one of the boarded
windows, a lackey ran out of a building close by (his
appearance and dress are not described), slamming the
door behind him, and conducted them round to the main
entrance, where they joined a ,French wedding-party
being shown round the place, and afterwards drove back
to their hotel at Versailles, where they had tea.
Now, I think it extremely probable that the facts
recorded by them are to some extent true, being based
on real misinterpreted perceptions; but that—as in day
dreams, the hypnagogic state of sleep, and other hallu­
cinatory states—there was probably also an intrusion of
wholly “ representative ” elements, so that I feel justified
in remaining agnostic both as to the extent of their
previous ignorance of the history of the Petit Trianon
and also about the accuracy of the recorded details and
their exact correspondence with^ what subsequent
researches showed may have been historical facts. For
psychologists, who have made a special study of dreams,
are clear that it is impossible to be certain that the
memory of a dream is accurate, and in this particular
A P P E N D IX H m l
experience there are two peculiarly unsatisfactory
features, . (i) They were so unaware that anything out
of the ordinary had taken place, that they did not dis­
cuss any of these experiences till one day, a week sSfter-
wards, when they were writing letters describing their
visit to Versailles, and, in trying to recall the expedition,
they agreed that the place was haunted, and that a
feeling of depression stole over them at a particular
spot on their walk from, the Palace to the Petit Trianon,
(2) It was not till three months later that they wrote
down their respective accounts of the experience which
are published in their book.
Their own explanatory theory is that they entered a
psychic atmosphere created around the place by the
brain of Marie Antoinette when she was spending the
long day of August 10th, 1792, with the Legislative
Assembly at the Tuileries and trying to divert her mind
by thinking about the Trianon, But this is hypothesis
pure- and sim ple; for, if they were trespassers on some
one else’s memory, it is only bias which makes them
think it was Marie Antoinette’s ; and it is noteworthy
that, while proclaiming a bias against the occult, they
mention, almost with pride, that one of them has a
*f deliberately undeveloped power of second-sight ” and
that the other comes of a family possessing powers of
“ premonition accompanied by vision,” Such state­
ments are the reverse of impressive; for here they
assume, what has still to be proved, that such gifts are
a practical reality, and they seem to consider that' the
same power can enable the possessor to see the past or
fu tu re! The description of their experiences is not so
clear— thus, they make no mention of the legs of the
young man who came running after them, but only
mention the buckles on his shoes; and similarly, they
are vague as to whether it was a rock or what it was
from behind which he appeared—as to exclude the
possibility that many of the details took definite shape
in their minds afterwards y and altogether it is difficult
to be certain how far forgotten memories before the
experience, or in the interval before it was recorded,;
can be said not to have influenced the account. On
the other hand, I think we may say for certain that
these ladies, on a hot afternoon, after a tiring round
o f sight-seeing and lunch, had a waking hallucination,
closely resembling the hypnagogic state preceding sleep,
'which is characterised by dissociation of consciousness
APPENDIX H
138
and diminution of apperception, and in which illusions
of memory (paramnesia) are particularly liable to occur
(see “ The World of Dreams/’ by Havelock Ellis, pp.
221-%60). Such a state is often also attended by depres­
sion or by a feeling of oppression, as any one inclined to
be bilious will know who has gone to sleep after dinner.
Examples of retrocognition or pseudo-memories are a
particularly interesting study, and there can be no
doubt that the explanation of them is given by a study
of the hypnagogic state which is a transition between
sleeping and waking, and which sometimes occurs in
the middle of active mental life as the result of excite­
ment or exhaustion. In this state there may even be loss
of the consciousness of personality. Thus jastrow records
the case (“ The Subconscious,” p. 137) of a lady student
absorbed in work, who, hearing outside the door*the
shuffling of rubber-heels such as she wore, said: “ There
goes------ / ’ naming herself.
Another most, important possibility must always be
borne in mind in telepathic experiments, namely, that
sensory impressions may affect consciousness without
being consciously perceived—in other words, a sub­
conscious impression may subsequently affect con­
sciousness.
; Thus Jastrow and Nuttail, about twenty-five years
ago, did some most valuable experiments with an
electro-magnet. One observer (the percipient) sat on a
.chair in a room on the third floor of a tall building with
his head between the two poles of the magnet, which
was supported on two adjoining tables. The other
observer (the agent) was in a room on the ground floor,
turning by hand a gramme-dynamo machine, and so
generating the current which was conducted to the
electro-magnet by heavy insulated wires running out
of the windows along the wall of the building and in
through a window on the third floor. The agent com­
municated with the percipient by a system of electric
signals; otherwise they wexe completely isolated from
one another, with over thirty feet and two heavy floors
between them. The experiment consisted in the per­
cipient trying to say when the coil was magnetised.
They made eight hundred observations during a week,
and on one of the last days, a quiet Sunday when the
trams had stopped running, they came to the conclusion
that at times they were able to detect the noise result-
A P P E N D IX H *39
mg from the turning of the dynamo, and that it was
conducted along the wires, There was also another
fallacy. For they found that on magnetising and
demagnetising the magnet, a faint but yet audible
molecular crepitation occurred, the sound produced
being a very d u ll,' rather sudden, click. The click
accompanying demagnetisation was much more distinct
than that accompanying magnetisation, •
During the first eight hundred experiments, the pro­
portion of correct guesses indicated that there was some
factor at work other than that of pure chance, and if
they had not discovered the two fallacies, above-
mentioned, their experiments would have been supposed
to prove the existence of a magnetic sense for the
detection of magnetic waves, the “ odyllic fluid ” of the
old mesmerists. However, they were able to exclude
these two fallacies, and then made 1,950 more observa­
tions on themselves and various students; whereupon
the proportion of correct guesses showed that there was
no other factor present Than that of pure chance.
Tints auditory indications of which the percipient was
utterly unconscious were used as a basis for forming the
judgment during theirfirst series of Soo experiments. (See
Pwc. American Vol. L, p, 1x6, July 1886.)
One could not have a better example both of the
importance of subconscious impressions received through
the senses, and of the difficulty of excluding^fallacies in
telepathic experiments, which, instead of being done in
hundreds, are usually only done by tens or even by
units*
In view of the above facts and considerations, I
believe that many experiences somewhat analogous; to
that recorded in " An Adventure,” but often too transi­
tory and trivial to record, like the recognition of a
strange place, are most easily explained by some latent
and forgotten memory, or else by an undetected interval
between the first subconscious impression made on the
senses and the conscious recognition of one*s surround­
ings, Several times in m y own experience I have
detected the emergence of facts which m y first impulse
prompted me to feel certain had never been known to
me but which I afterwards have found were really latent
in m y memory* A good illustration of tills: tendency is
afforded by the, following incident, which occurred to a
highly observant1
and critical engineer I know, who had
A P P E N D IX II
140
an argument with a friend about the solution of a
geometrical problem which, he was certain he had never
seen or heard of before. He was prepared to swear that
the problem was insoluble, and tried to prove that such
was the case. Judge, then, of his surprise •when there
was handed to him a solution of it in Ms own hand­
writing, some twenty years old !
This same friend m ay also be quoted as proving the
difficulty of getting any satisfactory evidence for tele­
pathy, '’ For, in his restless desire to get at something
really convincing— having during the last ten years
carried out many experiments and taken a great interest
in the subject— he offered only a few months ago £1000
to three of the leading English authorities on telepathy
for satisfactory proof of one recent case> with the following
result, which I give in his own words :
“ The first replied at once, expressing his surprise
at m y imagining * that incontrovertible evidence
could be obtained at all in an inductive problem * l
The second at first very kindly expressed his willing­
ness to help, and appeared- very keen to meet me and
talk the matter over; but, after seeing No. 1, he
wrote, * W hilst anxious to help you, I could not
undertake to prove the results of a long and difficult
investigation to order or for a pecuniary offer/ and
the third replied, * Y ou may offer ¿1,000,000 with
perfect safety. No sane person will back any mortal
to do telepathy to ord er* !
" If any proofs existed, they should surely be
forthcom ing; but it is something to get from one
of ou r leading scientists, who has often declared Ms
belief in telepathy, the admission that it is an
' inductive problem * ! 5
1
Lastly, the opinion of those experts who have studied
the evidence for telepathy, and have, finally, after much
experience, come to an adverse conclusion, should have
great weight— especially if coming from scientifically
trained men; for such a conclusion has been arrived at
in face of the natural tendency to believe in the occult.“
Two of the most noteworthy are the following : {a) Pro­
fessor Simon Newcomb, the late distinguished astronomer
and mathematician, was the first President of the
American Branch of the $*P,E, in 1884, so that he took
•
an. interest in the subject for many years, Now, in the
■Mimfemth January 1909, p. 139, he wrote:
A P P E N D IX H I4I
“ Nothing has been brought out by the researches of the
psychical society and its able collaborators, except what
we should expect to find in the ordinary course of
nature.” (6) Dr. J. Milne Bramwell, the English
authority on the subject of hypnotism, took part many
years ago with fellow-members of the S.P.R. in experi­
ments on thought-transference. Here is the summary
of his experience in 1909
“ During the last twenty years, I have searched for
evidence of telepathy and* also taken part in the
experiments of other observers; the results, however,
have been invariably negative.” (“ Hypnotism and
Treatment by Suggestion,” p. 118, Cassell & Co.)
In addition to these, I must mention the late Mr.
Frank Podmore, secretary of the S.P.R. from 1888-1895,
whose books during the past twenty years show immense
knowledge and the most painstaking study of psychical
subjects. His opinion, it is true, inclines to a belief in
the existence of telepathy; but this he only allows
himself to express in the m ost guarded terms— twenty
years after the founding of the S.P.R.— as follow s:
” For m y own part, I see no reason to doubt that
if the existence of thought-transference should even­
tually be demonstrated— and I do not claim that the
demonstration is or ought to be considered com ­
plete— the explanation will be found strictly within
the region of natural law. . . . It must be admitted
that the older evidence is far from demonstrative.
Possibly, apart from two recent items— the experi­
ments at Brighton conducted by Professor and Mrs.
Sidgwick and the records of Mrs. Piper's trance-
utterances— the question of the reality of such a
faculty would hardly seem worth discussion.”^
(“ M odem Spiritualism /3
1Introduction, p. xviii.)
In conclusion, then, I may say that, while admitting
the d priori possibility of telepathy and the superficial
impressiveness of the evidence for it, I adopt the same
attitude towards the evidence,as Professor Newcomb,
when he wrote d propos of spontaneous and coincidental
hallucinations ; " The seeming wonders— and they are
plentiful— are at best of the same class as the wonder
when a dozen drawers of the black grain of corn' out of a
million are presented to us.” {This refers to a previous
142 A P P E N D IX H
paragraph in which the probability of coincidence is
illustrated by the experiment of making every inhabitant
e£ Great Britain draw one grain of corn out of a bag
containing a million normal grains and a single black
one.) “ W e are asked to admit an attraction between
their hands and the black grain. The proof is con­
clusive enough, until we remember that this dozen is
only a selection out of millions, the rest of whom have
aot drawn the black grain. The records do not tell us,
and never can tell us, about the uncounted millions of
people who have forgotten that they ever had a vision
or any illusion; or who, having such, did not find it
associated with any notable occurrence. Count them
all in and nothing is left on which to base any theory
of occultism ” {loc. cii,} p. 139). This attitude, however,
does not prevent me hoping that further experiments
in telepathy will be carried out by researchers trained in
experimental psychology, for there is great need of such
.to throw adequate light on the question, which till then
we must “ leave in a decent obscurity ”—to quote
Podm ore’s words about Eusapia (" The Newer Spiritual*
ism,” p. 143), which slightly altered might run ; In any
case the matter is not to be decided by argument, but by
experiment, Let renewed and again renewed attempts be
made by properly trained scientists to procure telepathic
effects under laboratory conditions, and, until success has
been obtained, let us leave telepathy in a decent obscurity.
• IN D E X
Adare, ViscouNf, evidence, 15,16
Adventure, an, 135-8
Agnosticism, Huxley on, n. 9
Ames, Mr. and Mrs., alleged case of
telepathy, 126-9
Analogy, use and abuse of, 24.-5
Arnold, Matthew, and number thir­
teen, 27-8
Astley, Dr., alleged astral appearance,
70-71, 118-26
Auto-suggestion; seehypnotism, 76-9
B., Martha, phenomena, 37, 64-6
Bailey, medium, n
.54 „ ^ .
Barrett, Professor W. F., F.R.S., on
the supernatural, vii-viii, n
.95
------- spirit-photography investigated,
86-7
Bastian, medium, exposure, n
.52
Bellachini, conjurer, on mediumSlade,
n
.3X
Beresford, Lord Charles, experience,
82
Bias, as source of error, 14-15
BienBoa, spirit form, 64
Blavatsky, Madame, exposure, ». 52,
60-x
Bly, medium, exposure, n, 52
Botha, Piet, alleged spirit-photograph,
Bowditch, Professor, experience with
Mrs. Piper, 33» 99
Bramwell, Dr. J. Milne, hypnotic ex­
periments, 77
------ on telepathy, 14X
Breeze, Florence, evidence, 122
Brock, Rev. Robert, evidence, 118-9,
122—
3
Buguet, M., medium, exposure, n
.52
Carrington, Hereward, 54 ,
C
h
u
rch
esand M
o
d
ernT
h
o
u
g
h
t,T
h
e,x
Clairvoyance, evidence for, 94“
"ro*
------ phenomena embraced by term,
76
Clanny, Dr., credulity, n. 44
Coincidence, or telepathy, theory of,
84-8,129-42
Colchester, medium, exposure, n
.52
Colley,Thomas{Archdeacon),account,
113-8
------credulity, 63
------support of Monck, 52-3
• y, Maskelyne, 1x3-8
Combcrmere, Lord, 86-7
Conjuring, and psychical research, 3r,
"109-10
Conscience, early training, 10-12
Cook, Florence, performances, 40-x
------ séance, 108-9
Cox, Serjeant, «. 37
------ psychic experience, 46-8
Crookes’ Walter, 46-8
Crookes, Sir William. F.R.S., evidence,
40-1, 48,108-9
—— ■
R
esea
rch
es in S
p
iritu
a
lism
quoted, 42
Davenport exposure, n
.52
Davev, S. J., slate-writing pheno­
mena, n
. 31, n
.49, no
Dawson, Edgar, 27
Dead, communications from, 94-6
------ re-appearance of, 19-20, 89-90
de Morgan, Mrs., n
.44
------ Professor, n
.44
Devizes, strange coincidence at, 7
Dixie, Lady Florence, evidence, 28-
30
------ story of, discredited, n
.38
Dog-ghosts, 7X-2
------ evidence for telepathy, 133
Douglas, Lord Francis, incident
relating to death of, 28-30
Dreams, 8
&
~
x•
------ coincidental, S
B
------ premonitory, 85-6
— 'Rider Haggard’s experience, 7x
-— telepathy and, 79-80
Eglinton, medium, n
.49
Ellis, Havelock, T
h
eWorldof Dreams,
»• 79» 138
Evidence, X3-45
------- documentary, 18-20,26,67-70
------ historical, 22-4
Faith, 3-4 ,,
Faraday, Professor, on table’'turning,
n
. 5
6
Fay, conjurer, m
------ Mm., medium,», 53
Firman, M., medium, n
.52
Forbes, Dr., Illu
stra
tio
n
sof M
o
d
ern
Mesmerism, ax
Foster, medium, «. 52
Fox, George, at Lichfield, xx
------- Misses, phenomena, $5
INDEX
144
Gallon, Sir Francis, F.R.S., 46-8
Garrett, Edmund, Isis V
ery M
u
ch
U
n
v
eiled
,60-1
Ghosts, 62
•
— absence of documentary evi­
dence, 6
8
-9
------ hallucinations, 66-7
------- recentinstances, 70-3,118-26
------ telepathic explanation, 67-8
Greeley, Horace, evidence, 34-3
Guppy. Mrs., 34
Gurney, Edmund, on ghosts, 67
------ on Judge Hornby case, 19
------ on re-appearance of the dead, 90
Haggard, Rider, dream experience,
71
Hallucination, coincidental, 129-35,
141
— — collective, n
.44
------ instances, 134-8
------ sensory, 62, 6
6
------ telepathic, n
.23
------ waking, 76, 81-3, 84, 89
Hartley, Hannah, evidence, 120-2
Haweis, Rev. H. R., n
.53
Hayden, Mrs., medium, n
.44
Head, Henry, C
erta
inM
en
ta
lC
h
a
n
g
es
th
a
tA
ccom
p
a
n
yV
iscera
lD
isea
se.
10, 66
, William, n
.41
dgson, Dr. Richard, association
with Mrs. Piper, 100
------ criticism of Eusapia Palladino,
39- 4°
------ on communications from the
dead, 95 _
------ P
ossib
ilities of M
a
lo
b
serv
a
tio
n
,
x3-
------ report on Madame Blavatsky,
Home, Daniel Douglas, flotation, 15-
18
------ honesty as medium, 43, 49-50
Hornby, Sir Edmond, evidence dis­
credited, 19-20 '
Hudson, medium, exposure, ».52
------ Thomson Jay, "psychic treatises
by, vi
Huxley, attitude towards the super­
natural, ix
------ E
ssa
ys,quoted, n
,4, n
.9, n
.22
----- - on mediums, n
.52
Hypnotism, nature of, 76-9
------ in table-turning, 55-6
Hyslop, Professor, experiences, 99
hones, Taylor, on ghosts, 67-9
------ W
h
erea
re th
e L
etters? quoted,
> a o i , 14,». 1 8 , 2 6
0» lady Florence Pixies
evidence, 29—
30
,Jwnefti S
tH
miraculousappearance, 24
Jam«, Prof. William, Professor
Shaler’s letter to, 96-8
Jastrow, T
h
eS
u
b
co
n
scio
u
s;seeNuttall
Z3S
Johnson, Miss Alice, experiments in
experimental telepathy, 90
King, Katie, spirit form, 40-1
------ SirW.Crookes’sexperienceswith,
X08-9
Lane, Fred, dreamexperience, 8o-r, 83
Lang, Andrew, errorin cases cited by,
n
.83
Lankester, Sir Edwin Ray, exposure
of Slade, n
.31
Law, Arthur, coincidence recorded,
84-5
Le Bon, Gustave, on collective hallu­
cination, 44
“ Lethe Incident, The,” soo
Lewr
es, G. H., on hallucination, n
.12
------ P
ro
leg
o
m
en
a
,quoted, 9
— on table-turning, 45
Lindsay, the Master of, evidence, 15
Lodge, H. B., 1x5
Lodge, Sir Oliver, case of “ Uncle
jerry,” 100
------ experiences, n
.95
------ experiments in thought-trans­
ference, 38
------- on telepathy, 129
——■on Zancigs’ performance, 93
Lombroso, Professor, x, 53
Maning, Judge F, E., O
ldN
ewZ
ea
­
la
n
d
,quoted, 8, 56-60
Maoris, spirit-raising, 56-60
Marriott, William, on fraudulent
'* mediums, n
.54
— - on spirit-photography, n
.63
Martineau, Harriet, inaccurate re­
porting, 20
Maskelyne and Cooke,'performance,
rxi-13
------ and Devant, on performances of
mediums, 49
------ Colley, libel action, n
. 53,113-
18
Materialisation of spirits, Prof,
Richet’s experience, 63-6
------ Florence Cook’s exhibition, 40-r,
108-9
-------Maskelyne’s exhibition, n
.53
Miss Showers’s exhibitipn, n
,37
Maxim, Sir Hiram, on Fayfs per­
formance, nr
Mediums, exposure common, 51
------ information bureau theory, 98-
100
------- reputation for dishonesty, 31, 49
— varying intensity of psychic
force, 50
Miles, Miss, telepathic experiments,
91, X
33
IN D E X 145
Miltals» Sir J. E.» 26 ^ ,
M
od
em O
ccu
ltism
, Professor New­
comb, 28, 29-20, 140
Monck, medium, 224-8
- — exposure, 52-3
Moor, Major, credulity, «. 44
Moses, Rev. William Stainton,
methods, 105-7
- — nature of seances, 35-7, 94
------ Podmore on, 89-90
Munsterberg, Professor, 54
Muriel, Rev. H. C., evidence, 124
Myers, Frederic W. H., automatic
writing test, ». 6t
------ on Judge Hornby case, iq
------ sittings with Eusapia Palladino,
39
Natural phenomena, as related to
truth, 1-12
Newcomb, Professor Simon, on
hallucinations, 241
------ M
o
d
ern O
ccu
ltism
, quoted, 18,
29-20
—— on telepathy, n
.84, 240-1
------ on thought-transference, 133
Nuttail, electro-magnet experiments,
138
Podmore, Frank, on performances of
Mrs. Piper, 98-101
------ physical phenomena, «. 52
------ spirit-photography, 88-9
- — Telepathic Hallucinations» ex-
tract, ». 23, n
.92,134 #
------telepathy, 229-32, 242
Psychic force, case for, 46-55
— - Podmore, on, «,52
Psychical research, need of con­
jurer’s training, 31, 109-10
— -Society for, automatic writing
test, n
.61
------ case of Eusapia Palladino, 53-4
------ census of persons experiencing
hallucinations, 84
------ghost-stories, investigated, 62
------ work, xi-xii
Ramsden, Miss, telepathic experi­
ments, ».92, 133
Reichel, Professor, «. 54
Riehet, Professor Charles, experiences
with Marthe B., 37, 63-6
------ sittings with Eusapia Palladino,
39
Rita, medium, exposure,«, 34
Roman Catholic Church, private
judgment and authority, xi
O
c
cu
ltism a
n
d C
o
m
m
o
n
-S
en
se,
quoted, v, 33, 35, 80-3, 88
O
ld N
ew Z
ea
la
n
d
, F, E. Maning,
quoted, 8, 56-60
Palladino, Eusapia, 39-40
*—
— •exposure, 53-5
Personal experience of Stainton
Moses, 36
Personality, loss of consciousness of,
237-8 ' ■
P
h
a
n
ta
sm
softh
eL
iv
in
g
, E. Gurney
and others, absence of docu­
mentary evidence in, 6B-70
—— on re-appearance of the dead,
». 90
------ Taylor Innés on, ». 26, 132
Photography of spirits ; see spirit-
photography
Physical phenomena; see psychic
force
Piper, Mrs,, 95-102
Planchette, explanation of pheno­
mena, 61-2
Podmore, A., experience of, 210
Podmore, Frank, on Home as a
medium, ». 43, 49-50
■
------human testimony, », 22
------ incompetence of untrained
' common-sense, vf-vii
----- »M
od
em
S
p
iritu
a
lism
,quoted, 16-
17; »0, », 34, 36, », 42, 205-6,
209-20
, —— The Nmer Spiritm tim , quoted,
: ' », 28, 36, 39, 40
Sanders, Rev. C. B., F. Podmore on,
37
Sense-impressions, perverted, frequent
cause of error, 9-22 ,
Sensory hallucination; seehallucina­
tion, 62
Shaler, Professor, on performances of
Mrs. Piper, 96-8
Shearer, D. F., on alleged astral
appearance of Dr. Asfcley, 125-6
Showers, Miss, exposure, ». 37
Sidgwick* the late Professor, census of
persons experiencing hallucina­
tions, 84
----- experimental telepathy, 90
-— Mrs,, experimental telepathy, 90
Singh, Prince Duleep, experience oi,
83
Slade, medium, exposed, », 31
------ slate-writing performances,». 49
Slate-writing, conjurer's trick, n
, 3s»
«, 49, 2X0
Society for PsychicalResearch; see
Psychical Research, Society for
Spear, spiritualist, machine of, n. 42
Speer, Dr., experience, 106-7. ■
Spielmann, M. H., on Zancigs per­
formance, 93 , ,
Spirit-photography, supposed in*
stances, 32-3, 86-7, 88-9
— ~ investigated, », 62-3 : ,
Spirit-raising, Maoris' exhibition, 56-
d
o
Spirit-rapping, phenomena, 35; m .
also table-turmng
IN D E X
146
Spiritualism, case for, 46-73
Stead,i_W. X , spirit-photography,
on Zancigs* performance, 93-4
t>ub-conscious impressions, impor­
tance of, 138-40
------ self, defined, 78
Table-turning, described, 55-6
------ G. H. Lewes on, 45
Taylor, medium, exposure, n. «
5
2
Telepathy, 74-101 D
------ argumentinsupport of, criticised,
Ï 2 9 -3 3
-------automatic writing and trance
utterances, 95-101
------ case of Mr. and Mrs. Ames, 126-9
— — dreams in relation to, 79-80
------evidence for criticised, 133-41
------experimental, 90-4
------ ghosts in relation to, 67-8
------ hypnotism in relation to, 76-9
------ phenomena, embraced by term,
76
------subconscious nature of, 133
~— ;supposed instances, 19, 28-30
Temss, William, dream concerning
80-1,84
Theobald, Mr., Spirit Workers inthe
H
o
m
eC
ircle, n
.31
Thirteen, number, superstition, 26-8
Thompson, General J. C., dog-ghost,
evidence on, 71-2
Thought-readers, the Zancigs, 91-4
Tha^t-baasteamce, “P
“*“
**»
/
Trance-utterances, evidence for c
m
ioi ’ .
Truth, nature of, 1-12
Vaschide, M., researches on halluci­
nations, n. 74,130
VerraLl^Mrs., automatic writing test,
Florence Cook, exposed by,
Wallace, Dr. Alfred, F.R.S., LLD
evidence, 117-8 '
------ on Miss Nichol’s phenomena, n.
34
Warburton, Canon, dream experience,
Where are the Letters? Taylor limes
n. xii, n. 14, n. 18, 26 1
W iMt Mrs. F. B., coincidental dream,
Williams, medium, exposure, n. 34
Willson, Beckles, Occultism and Com-
™°n;Sense, v, 33, 35, 80-3, 88
Wood, Miss, medium, exposure, «. 52
Wntmg, automatic, supposed in-
stance, 94
~ — Verrall-Myers test, n. 61
Wynne, Captain, evidence, 15, 16
X -j- Y s=
aZ, see C. B. Sanders
Zancigs, the 91-4
