{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__soal___preliminary_studies_of_a_vaudeville_telepathist.pdf","mytitle":"Preliminary Studies Of A Vaudeville Telepathist","mylang":"de"}
UNIVERSITY
OF
LONDON
COUNCIL
FOR
PSYCHICAL
INVESTIGATION
•
BULLETIN
III
UNIVERSITY OF LONDON COUNCIL
FOR PSYCHICAL INVESTIGATION
BULLETIN III
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A
VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
By S. G. SOAL, M.A., B.Sc.
With 13 Illustrations
LONDON
Published at the Rooms of the
UNIVERSITY OF LONDON COUNCIL FOR PSYCHICAL INVESTIGATION
19, Berkeley Street, Mayfair, W .l
1937
Price 5 / - net Foreign $L25
UNIVERSITY OF LONDON COUNCIL FOR
PSYCHICAL INVESTIGATION
19 Berkeley Street, Mayfair,
London, W. 1
COUNCIL
Guy B. Brown, M.Sc., Ph.D., Professor Cyril Burt, M.A., D.Sc., Professor J. C.
Flugel, B.A., D.Sc., Dr. C. E. M. Joad, M.A. (Chairman), C. A. Mace, M.A., Professor
J. MacMurray, M.C., M.A., Professor C. A. Pannett, F.R.C.S., M.D., B.S., B.Sc.,
Harry Price, S. G. Soal, M.A., B.Sc., Rev. Professor E. S. Waterhouse, M.A., D.D.
EXECU TIVE COMMITTEE
Guy B. Brown, M.Sc., Ph. D., Professor J. C. Flugel, B.A., D.Sc., Dr. C. E. M.
Joad, M.A., Harry Price, S. G. Soal, M.A., B.Sc.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS
William Bacon, B.Sc., F.I.C., F.C.S., M.I.Chem.E., Professor Dr. Francis G.
Benedict (Boston, Mass.), Professor Dr. Eugen Bleuler (Zurich), Professor Dr.
Lidio Cipriani (University of Florence), Professor Dr. Hans Driesch (Leipzig),
Professor Dr. W. P. Gowland (University of Otago, Dunedin, N.Z.), Professor
Dr. F. Haslinger (Graz, Austria), Professor Dr. R. F. Alfred Hoernlé (Univer­
sity of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg), Dr. A. vor Mohr (Gottingen), Pro­
fessor Dr. William McDougall, F.R.S. (Duke University, North Carolina),
Professor Dr. T. K. Oesterreich (Tübingen), Professor Dr. F. C. S. Schiller,
Professor Dr. C. Schröder (Berlin), Professor Dr. Giovanni Pioli (Milan), Professor
Dr. Emanuele Sorge (University of Naples), René Sudre (Paris), Dr. Paul Sünner
(Berlin), Dr. A. Tanagras (Athens), Dr. W. H. C. Tenhaefi (University of Utrecht),
Professor Dr. Hans Thirring (Vienna University), Professor D. Walter (Graz,
Austria), Dr. Th. Wereide (University of Oslo), Professor Dr. Chr. Winther
(Copenhagen), etc.
HONORARY SECRETARY AND EDITOR
H ARRY PRICE
HONORARY SOLICITOR
JAMES S. JONES
SECRETARY
MISS ETHEL BEENHAM
Telephone and Telegrams: Mayfair 5453.
When Rooms are closed, telephone: (Honorary Secretary), Pulborough 21
Frontispiece]
Marion psychometrising a letter.
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A
VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
By S. G. SOAL, M.A., B.Sc.
With 13 Illustrations
LONDON
Published at the Rooms of the
U N IV E R S ITY OF LON D ON COUNCIL FO R PSYC H ICA L IN V E STIG A T IO N
19 Berkeley Street, Mayfair, W .l.
1937
PRELIMINARY STUDIES
OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
By S. G. SOAL, m.a., b.sc.
INTRODUCTION
J
OSEF KRAUS (“ Marion” ) the subject of this study was born at Prague
on 15thOctober, 1892 and waseducated atthe CommercialAcademy inthe
sametown, where heremained tillhe was eighteen years of age. Whilestill
at school, he claimed to be the possessor of uncanny gifts, a claim which was
inevitably derided by his teachers. After leaving school in 1910, he seems to
have spent a good deal of the next two years in practising and perfecting
himself in his mysterious arts, for two years later he attracted public
attention in Prague by undertaking to discover the whereabouts of an object
that had been hidden somewhere in the town by a committee of journalists
and police. Marion succeeded in finding the object and on the strength of this
public success, he was offered an engagement to appear at a concert hall in
Prague, where he mystified his audiences by finding objects hidden by them
in various parts of the room, by guessing numbers and colours chosen by
members of the audience, and by describing events in persons’ lives by
scrutinising specimens of their handwriting.
So successful were these performances, that Marion was soon inundated
with offers of engagements, and during the years 1912-1914 he appeared in
various continental towns, such as Vienna, Budapest, Krakow, Berlin,
Cologne, etc. The advent of the Great War temporarily eclipsed Marion’s
meteoric career and the stage telepathist was turned into a soldier who fought
for a short time on both the Italian and Russian fronts and also endured a
long spell of active service in Albania. Marion was wounded once and finally
discharged from the army in June, 1918, owing to ill-health.
Before the Armistice was declared, he had taken up the broken thread of
his professional career, giving performances at first in Vienna and other
Austrian towns. At the end of the War, Marion visited Germany, and then
returned to Czechoslovakia. In the years that followed, he visited France,
Italy, Spain, Portugal, Switzerland, Latvia, Esthonia, Turkey, Greece,
Roumania, Bulgaria, Holland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Lithuania,
Belgium and Finland. His first visit to England was in October, 1933, on
which occasion he stayed for a few days only, and gave no public perform­
ances. In January, 1934, Marion returned to this country to accept a number
of public and private engagements, and also to be investigated by the
National Laboratory of Psychical Research. At the time of writing this
report [August, 1934], Marion is still in England.
The National Laboratory of Psychical Research, which has since become
the University of London Council for Psychical Investigation, is in the
position of being able to present the first scientific report on the faculties of
this remarkable man. It is a little surprising that such an investigation has
3
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
been delayed so long, but the importance of the case can be estimated by
the long list of scientific men who have interested themselves in Marion’s
performance. This list includes such well-known names as Dr. Driesch,
Professor Messer, Schrenck-Notzing, Professor Thirring of Vienna, Dr.
Fischer of Prague, Bleuler, Winterstein, Sommer-Giessen, Simsa and Pro­
fessor Julian Huxley. Marion’s work in England has excited great interest
and a number of societies interested in psychical phenomena have invited
him to appear before them. It is worth while mentioning that Marion
himself steadfastly discountenances the view that he receives any assistance
from the spirits of the dead and insists that all he does is attributable solely
to his own powers. Besides being a public entertainer, Marion claims to have
aided the police of various towns in the successful tracking down of criminals.
In the London Forum of June, 1934 (pp. 387-394), there is an interesting
account of the way in which Marion’s powers led to the conviction of a man
who was suspected by the police in the town of Ulm (Wurttemburg) of the
murder of his brother. According to this account, Marion was called in and
described how the murder was committed, identifying the arrested man as
the criminal. Marion pictured all the circumstances of the crime, and finally
described how the victim was attacked from behind with an axe which was
afterwards thrown into a pond. The police found the weapon in the spot
indicated, and the suspected man then made a full confession.
On this story I shall make no comments. Obviously any serious attempt
to discover the truth about it would involve a personal visit to Ulm, and this
I am not prepared, at present, to undertake. I merely cite it as a specimen
of the many tales that Marion tells in support of his claim to unusual powers.
Marion states that his faculties have improved with practice, but that he
had to work for five or six years, before he felt any confidence in his public
performances. He assisted the development of his powers by exercises in
“thought concentration” and in deep breathing. Marion told me that he
possessed no relative who exhibited similar gifts. Further, he has had no
experiences that could be classed as “spiritualistic” . He has never seen
apparitions or psychic “lights” , or produced “raps” , or conversed with the
spirits of the dead by automatic writing or other means. He is sceptical in
regard to the spiritualistic hypothesis, but preserves an open mind.
I said just now that it seemed surprising that, hitherto, no scientific
report on Marion had been issued. But it is probable that a prohibitive
factor was the expense that such an investigation would involve. Performers
of the calibre of Marion do not allow themselves to be investigated at the
rate of a guinea an hour! Such an investigation as the one recorded in these
pages would have been impossible, but for the generosity of Mr. Harry Price.
But our hearty thanks are also due to Marion himself who, in the interests of
science, has given us many free sittings in the intervals between his public
engagements.
Our first impression of Marion was that of a dark-haired, attractive man
of early middle age, clean shaven and of sturdy build. His English is good
and quite adequate for ordinary conversation, though, perhaps, scarcely
sufficient for the expression of abstract ideas and the more delicate nuances
of thought. When he is “psychometrising” a letter, he will commence in
English, will suddenly flounder in trying to find a word to express his mean­
ing, and will then have recourse to German. In order, therefore, not to.
4
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
impede the free flow of his thought, we found it best to allow him to complete
a sentence or two in German, which would be immediately translated into
English by Mr. Dribbel, who dictated it to Miss Beenham, the note-taker.
We found this method quite satisfactory, as Marion’s comments on the letters
seldom, or never, exceeded 150-200 words. I should explain that, with one
or two exceptions, all the notes of our proceedings were taken down in short­
hand by Miss Ethel Beenham, who afterwards typed her notes in duplicate,
one copy being sent to me, and the other retained in the archives of the
Laboratory. For the first three sittings, these notes were perhaps not quite
so full as I could have wished, but I hasten to add that immediately she had
grasped my exact requirements, Miss Beenham’s notes became all that could
be desired as regards both precision and completeness. Indeed, from the
fourth sitting onwards, Miss Beenham proved herself to be an ideal note-
taker for psychical research. That is to say, she fully grasped the object of
each experiment and seized on the essential points to be noted. For example,
in the card-guessing experiments, she noted the most minute details in the
manipulation of the cards by both Marion and myself, and did this not for
one guess only, but for every separate guess. But evidence of this painstaking
work will appear later in the report. If any specially important detail had to
be recorded, I always drew her attention to it.
In this report, I propose to study Marion’s work in four sections. Section
I deals with “ The Hide and Seek Game"', Section II with “ The Recognition
of Playing Cards". In Section III, I shall describe “ Other Experiments in
Paranormal Perception", while Section IV will be devoted to “ The Psycho-
metry of Handwriting and Objects" .
A r r a n g e m e n t of Sit t in g s .
Our original plan was to hold two sittings each week, one on Wednesday
afternoons for the purposes of investigation by a group consisting of members
of the Council of the National Laboratory and myself, and one on Thursday
evenings in order to demonstrate established results to carefully selected
“outside” persons, who were interested in psychical research. As a matter of
fact, there were only four of these Thursday evening "demonstration”
séances. The first was held on Thursday, 18th January, 1934, and the last on
Thursday, 8th February, 1934. Our chief reason for discontinuing them was
that we felt the time for actual investigation under controlled conditions was
all too short, and we therefore decided to substitute for the Thursday
“demonstration” séance, another experimental séance with our regular group,
to be held on Friday afternoons. Nevertheless, a few controlled experiments
were carried out on these Thursday evenings, when persons outside the
regular group were present.
Most of the time, however, was devoted to the “ psychometrising” of
letters and objects brought without any warning by the sitters themselves,
and under conditions that were far from ideal. I shall describe these un­
controlled experiments in Section IV, and I shall offer one or two criticisms
of the conditions in which they took place.
These additional Friday séances for experimental work commenced on
16th February, 1934. Between Wednesday, 17th January, 1934, and Friday,
9th March, 1934, we held two sittings per week, but after the last mentioned
5
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
date, Marion found that pressure of other engagements prevented him from
sparing us so much time, and our sittings were reduced to one a week, held
usually, on a Friday. After Easter we still continued our sittings, but at
irregular intervals. In all, we have had twenty-five sittings, the first of these
being held on 17th January, 1934, and the last on 28th July, 1934.
The average duration of sittings 1-16 was from 2-2J hours, but after
sitting No. 16, the sittings seldom lasted longer than an hour.
T h e R e g u la r Sit t e r s .
The regular group for experimental work comprised, originally, the
following: Mr. Harry Price, Mr. Alex. L. Dribbel, Mrs. A. Peel Goldney,
Mrs. Henry Richards, Mr. H. G. Bois, Mr. J. Van Lier; Miss Ethel Beenham
(note-taker) and S. G. Soal. At sitting No. 5, on Wednesday, 31st January,
1934, Mr. H. S. Collins was added to the group. He had, however, previously
attended one of the demonstration sittings (sitting No. 2 on Thursday, 18th
January, 1934). However, by the time we had reached sitting No. 12
(Friday, 23rd February, 1934), Mrs. Henry Richards, Mr. H. G. Bois and
Mr. J. Van Lier had permanently disappeared from the group. We may
consider, therefore, the permanent nucleus to consist of Mr. Harry Price,
Mr. Alex. L. Dribbel, Mr. H. S. Collins, Mrs. Peel Goldney, Miss Ethel Been­
ham, and myself. The names of every person who attended one or more
sittings, and the dates of attendance are given on page 95, as well as the
number of sittings attended by each. It will be seen that Mr. Price, or Mr.
Collins, or Mr. Dribbel, or Mrs. Goldney occasionally introduced a visitor
who took part in a sitting and, on one occasion, I did the same.
I should like to add a few words bearing on the personalities of the mem­
bers of the regular group. Mr. Harry Price, the founder of the Laboratory
and now Hon. Secretary to the University of London Council for Psychical
Investigation needs, of course, no introduction. Mr. H. G. Bois, Mr. Alex. L.
Dribbel, Mrs. A. Peel Goldney and Mrs. Henry Richards were all members of
the Council of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research. Miss Ethel
Beenham was Secretary to the Council, and is now Secretary to the University
of London Council for Psychical Investigation. Mr. H. S. Collins is a member
of the Society for Psychical Research. Mr. J. Van Lier is a well-known artist
who is a personal friend of Marion. He attended eight sittings. There was, of
course, no secret about the friendship of Mr. Van Lier and Marion, and Mr.
Van Lier readily consented to be controlled in experiments in which there
was any possibility of his giving any voluntary assistance to Marion. In the
experiments of Section I, for instance, Mr. Van Lier was sent out of the room
with Marion, except in a small minority of cases which I have discarded or
considered separately. Mr. Van Lier is, however, no very considerable factor
in the personal equation since he disappears entirely from the scene after
sitting No. 11. Finally, there remains myself. Mr. Price very kindly asked
me to take charge of this investigation, because I had had a certain amount
of experience in the subjects of experimental telepathy and clairvoyance and
because, being a mathematician, I could easily acquire any statistical know­
ledge that might be required. I need only add that I have enjoyed testing
the genuine gifts of Marion, and have found him far better worth studying
than many of the so-called spiritualistic “ mediums” .
6
SECTION I
" THE HIDE AND SEEK GAME ”
Marion’s most spectacular performance is undoubtedly his demonstra­
tion of ability to find objects that have been hidden by his audience. This
performance, at first sight, would seem to be a variation of Cumberlandism,
or the old “willing game” . But Marion’s feats are a step in advance of those
of Stuart Cumberland, who required to take his agent by the hand. In
Marion’s case, there is no physical contact whatever between himself and any
member of the audience, so that the ordinary theory of unconscious muscular
im pulsion cannot apply. Even so eminent an authority as M. René Sudre,
when discussing Cumberlandism,1 asks pertinently: “But how are we to
explain the case in which the guide has no contact with the guesser, but
merely follows him at a distance of a metre?” Sudre goes on to suggest that,
in such cases, there may be an element of true telepathy. He also sees in
ordinary Cumberlandism the commencement of mental dissociation both in
the agent and the guesser, since both are unconscious of the small muscular
im pulsions given and received. In support of this theory of a slight mental
dissociation, he notes the fact that some persons quickly lead the performer
to the hiding place, while others entirely fail. In view of M. Sudre’s remarks,
therefore, it seemed well worth while to endeavour to throw some light on
such a performance as that of Marion.
The first theory that naturally suggests itself to anyone who has seen
Marion at work with a public audience, is the theory that there is a confed­
erate in the audience who, by means of a “ silent” code, indicates to Marion
the position of the hidden object. I have no hesitation in rejecting this
theory of a confederate as untenable. Quite apart from the results of the
present inquiry, I have watched Marion succeed brilliantly before a carefully
selected audience comprised of well-known members of the Society for
Psychical Research. On one particular occasion which I have in mind, every
person present was known to me at least by name and reputation, and most
of them were personally known to me. Yet, on this occasion, Marion rapidly
located objects hidden in the most difficult places and did it with a precision
that precluded mere guessing and without any systematic searching of the
room.
At this stage it may be as well to give a general idea of Marion’s pro­
cedure when he is working with a large public audience. Facing the audience.
Marion requests that some lady or gentleman will provide him with a small
object, such as a cigarette fighter, or a fountain pen. He holds the object in
his hand for a few seconds in order, as he explains, to “sense” it and then
hands it back to the owner, with instructions to hide it when he, Marion,
has left the room. Before he goes outside the room, Marion explains to the
audience that he wants everyone to think hard of where the object is hidden,
and of the movements that he, Marion, must make in order to reach the
1Introduction à la Mêtapsychique Humaine, pp. 120-121.
7
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
required spot. Marion then asks someone to volunteer to accompany him
outside the room to testify that he does not listen at the door, or spy through
the keyhole. Marion leaves the room with his guardian, and when the door
is closed, the owner of the object hides it usually in some place where it is
invisible, e.g., in a lady’s handbag, or a gentleman’s pocket, or behind the
radiator, etc.
Marion is then recalled to the room. He enters the room with his eyes
half-closed and his right hand held out in front of his head, the fingers
apparently groping in the air. He appears lost in concentration, and obli­
vious of his audience. Keeping his eyes still half-closed, he walks fairly
rapidly round the room. Suddenly, he stops, turns round, puts his hand on
his forehead for a second or two, and then walks towards some particular
part of the room, or towards some member of the audience. Silently, he will
catch hold of a person by the sleeve and make him stand up. Still, ap­
parently, taking no notice of the audience, he will feel over this person’s
pockets and perhaps produce the object amid applause. Sometimes, how­
ever, he will not produce it, but will exclaim: “ It is no use my going on for I
am certain it is on this gentleman, perhaps in his right boot. Whereupon,
the audience will gasp with astonishment, and the gentleman will unlace his
boot and reveal the object. If the audience is a fair-sized one, and Marion is
in good form, he will often find the hidden object within a minute or two of
entering the room, or even within half a minute. Generally, one or two
experiments have to be done before he gets into his stride, and this is especi­
ally true when he faces a fresh audience. Marion’s first experiment savoured
more of the systematic search of our seance-room by a police-officer, than of
the divination of a magician.
We commenced at 2.35 p.m. on 17th January, 1934, and there were
present: Marion and his artist friend, Mr. J. Van Lier, Mr. Harry Price, Mr.
Alex. L. Dribbel, Mrs. Henry Richards, Mrs. A. Peel Goldney, S. G. Soal, and
Miss Ethel Beenham, who took notes. Mr. Price and I sat at the head and
foot of the large table shown in fig. 1, while the other sitters were seated
round the table. Miss Beenham sat a little away from the table, near the
settee, with her note-book on her lap.
Mr. Dribbel gave Marion a cigarette lighter, which the medium held in
his hand and then passed to Mrs. Richards, with the request that she was to
hide it when he, Marion, had left the room. Mrs. Goldney and Mr. Van Lier
then went out of the room with Marion, closing the door, which has no key­
hole. Mrs. Richards then hid the lighter under one of the cushions on the
settee, everyone in the room, of course, knowing where it was hidden. I then
clapped my hands and called “Come in” , whereupon Marion and his two
guardians entered the room. His eyes seemed half closed and one hand was
held in front of him at the level of his head, the fingers seeming to grope in
the air. All the sitters, except Miss Beenham, were now seated round the
large table.
I will state at once, that it took Marion exactly twenty minutes to find
that cigarette lighter. This was Miss Beenham’s first record, and it does not
profess to describe every minute movement of Marion, but, as it was taken
down in shorthand, it gives, I am certain, an essentially accurate account of
what happened:
Marion came in and walked up and down the room once or twice.
8
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
He made Mr. Soal stand up and felt in his pockets; walked to the end of the
room (i.e., the end opposite to the window) and felt the bookcases; went to
Mr. Soal again and passed his hands over him; Marion then went to other
bookcases (i.e., bookcase B, in Fig. 1), and started pulling out one or two
books, but he was told (by Mr. Price) that the lighter was not there. He
wandered round and round the room, but kept mostly to the top of the room
(i.e., the window end). Marion asked Mrs. Richards to think methodically
where the object was hidden. Marion went to the settee, and pulled the
cushions aside, but did not see the lighter. He again went to Mr Soal, and
asked him to stand up. Marion said he had an urge always to go to him
(i.e., Mr. Soal). He went to the bookcases on the right-hand side of the room
(i.e., bookcases K), and then asked Mr. Dribbel to think of where the object
was hidden. Mrs. Richards was then asked to stand up, but Marion left her,
and again went to Mr. Soal. Marion suggested that Mr. Dribbel should
follow him round the room. Mr. Dribbel did this, and, at length, Marion
went to the settee and found the lighter after twenty minutes from the
commencement of the test.”
Hardly a promising performance! Most of us felt that it was simply a
question of perseverance on Marion’s part, but Marion told us that his first
attempts were always failures, and that he had to get accustomed to the
audience.
We now repeated the experiment, using, this time, a pencil belonging to
myself. Marion found it after a fifteen minutes’ search; that is to say, he had
reduced his time by five minutes.
I will quote Miss Beenham’s notes:
“ Vlth Jan.,3 ft.m.
“ Mr. Soal gave Marion a pencil which the medium held in his hand for
two or three seconds, and then gave back to Mr. Soal. Mrs. Richards and
Mr. Van Lier accompanied Marion out of the room, and Mr. Soal then hid
the pencil. The pencil was hidden under the lid of the gramophone (invisible
to the audience or anyone inside the room). Marion was called in, and he
walked round the room, tapping various objects. He went to Mr. Dribbel
and felt his pockets. He walked to the top of the room, then came back to
the end near the door. He felt bookcase (D) and then walked round the
gramophone. He went back to bookcase (D) again and then walked round
the room. He asked the note-taker to move out of her chair, and then took a
bag containing pamphlets (standing near the note-taker’s table) and searched
through it. He said that he was sure the pencil was there, but he stood still
for a moment or two and then wandered round the room. He then asked Mr.
Soal to follow him round, and went to the bookcases (B) again and felt
several books. Apparently not satisfied, he walked to the gramophone, took
a book off the lid, opened the lid, and found the pencil inside. This took him
fifteen minutes (from the start).”
We then abandoned this particular experiment, and tried some tests
with playing cards, and cards with geometrical figures. The results of these
card experiments seemed more promising and I shall describe them in
Section II. This was fortunate, since had it not been for this success with the
cards, I should scarcely have felt inclined to continue the investigation of the
hide-and-seek game. As it was, Marion always insisted on beginning every
afternoon’s work with one or two hide-and-seek experiments, and through
9
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
this, I soon discovered that there was much more in this game than met the
eye at a first inspection. It is interesting to note that the first two experi­
ments described above did not succeed till one of the audience began to
follow Marion round the room.
Our next séance was held the following day (Thursday, 18th January,
1934), at 8.10 p.m. It was our first “demonstration” séance and there were
present: Mr. Ben Allsop, Lord Bective, Lady Bective, Mr. H. S. Collins,
Dr. J. Edgley Curnock, Mr. W. J. Gwyn, Mr. E. Giglio, Mr. Peter Doulton,
Mrs. G. Mallous, Dr. Sylvia M. Payne, Mrs. A. Peel Goldney, Mr. J. Van
Lier, Major W. Rampling-Rose, Miss Hankey, Miss M. A. Stewart, Mr.
Barry Richards, Mr. Harry Price, and Mr. S. G. Soal. Miss Beenham took
the notes.
The large table had been removed from the séance-room to make room
for the larger audience who were seated in rows facing the window, with the
exception of Mr. Harry Price, Lord Bective and Miss Beenham who sat on
the settee. I stood at a small table facing the audience.
We tried two hide-and-seek experiments on this evening. Marion took
ten minutes over the first test and only one and a half minutes over the next.
I must expressly state that, in these two experiments, Mr. Van Lier was not
controlled, but remained in the room with the rest of the audience.
I quote Miss Beenham’s notes:
8.10 p.m. Sitting commenced. Mrs. Goldney gave her powder-box to
Marion, who held it in his hands for a second or two. He then went out of the
room, accompanied by Mrs. Richards. The powder-box was given to Major
Rampling-Rose who hid it on top of bookcase B. Marion was then called in,
and he asked Major Rampling-Rose to concentrate on the motions he had
made in hiding the object, stage by stage. Marion was told that Major
Rampling-Rose had hidden the box. Marion then asked Major Rampling-
Rose to follow him wherever he went. Marion touched the bookcase on which
the box was hidden and then the one next to it. He remarked that the box
must be there somewhere. He left the bookcase and went to Mrs. Goldney,
and made her stand up. He looked in her bag. He went back to the same
bookcase again, and passed his hand over the books. He then asked Mr.
Doulton to stand up, and felt over his pockets.
8.17 p.m. Marion now asked if he might try again with Mr. Collins follow­
ing him round, as he was unsuccessful with Major Rampling-Rose. Mr.
Collins followed Marion round. Marion made Mr. Soal get out of his chair
[I was then sitting in the front row of the audience, and did not go to the small
table till the card experiments began. S.G.S.]. Marion took the chair, stood
on it, and found the powder-box on top of the bookcase. This was at 8.20 p.m.
8.21 p.m. For this test Lord Bective gave Marion his cigarette-case to
hold for a second or two. Marion then went out of the room with Major
Rampling-Rose. The case was then hidden by Lord Bective in Mr. Soal’s
pocket. At 8.25 p.m., Marion was called in. He asked Lord Bective to think
hard of what he did in hiding the case, and to follow him round. Marion
walked up and down the front row of sitters, pulled Dr. Edgley Curnock out
of his chair, then went to Mr. Soal, felt over him, and found the case. This
took only one and a half minutes.
A point of interest in connection with the first of these two experiments
10
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
is that while Marion failed when he was being followed by Major Rampling-
Rose, he succeeded very quickly as soon as Mr. Collins began to follow him.
Sitting No. 3 was devoted entirely to experiments with playing cards.
At sitting No. 4 (a “ demonstration” séance) on Thursday, 25th January,
1934, we did only one hide-and-seek test, as I wished to devote the time to
the trying-out of a new technique which I shall presently describe. The one
test we did is of no particular interest. I will merely add that there were
seventeen persons present, excluding Marion. Mr. Van Lier was absent.
Mr. R. S. Lambert (Editor of The Listener) hid his fountain-pen in his wife’s
handbag. Mr. Lambert was sitting next to his wife on the settee. Marion,
on being called in, found the pen in one and a quarter minutes, with no one
following him round the room.
At our fifth sitting on Wednesday, 31st January, 1934, a rather interest­
ing -incident occurred. We did two experiments only on this afternoon, as
we were engaged on the new technique. There were present Mr. Harry Price
Mr. H. G. Bois, Mrs. Henry Richards, Mrs. A. Peel Goldney, Mr. H. S. Collins,
Mr. Alex. L. Dribbel, Mr. J. Van Lier, Mr. S. G. Soal, and Marion. Miss
Beenham was taking notes.
2.40 p.m. Mr. Bois gives a cigar cutter to Marion, who holds it for a
moment. Marion goes out of the room, accompanied by Mr. Van Lier. The
cigar cutter is hidden in Mr. Dribbel’s left sock [under his spat]. Marion is
called in, and he asks Mr. Bois to think hard of the movements he made when
hiding the object. Marion walks up and down, and then goes to Mr. Soal. He
makes him stand up, and feels in his pockets. Marion then goes to Mr.
Dribbel and makes him stand up. He feels over his pockets. He then stands
in Mr. Dribbel’s place. He makes Mr. Van Lier stand up. He again goes to
Mr. Dribbel, and stands in the place he was occupying a moment ago.
Marion then goes to Mr. Bois and feels through his pockets very rapidly. He
again goes to Mr. Dribbel, and says that he knows that the object must be
hidden on Mr. Dribbel’s left side, and that it is a waste of time to go on.
Mr. Dribbel then undoes his spat, and takes out the cigar cutter from his
left sock. Marion took four minutes to find this.”
I should add that, when the cigar cutter had been hidden inside Mr.
Dribbel’s sock and the spat buttoned up, I was satisfied before Marion
entered the room, that there were no external signs that any object was
secreted under the spat. This experiment made a considerable impression on
us. Marion had seemed so sure that the cigar cutter was somewhere on Mr.
Dribbel’sleft side, though he had not actually felt the spat at all.
The next experiment, though successful, was not nearly so interesting:
“2.47 p.m. Mr. Price gives Marion his knife. Marion holds it for a
second or two, and then goes out of the room with Mr. Van Lier. Mr. Price
then hides the pocket-knife behind a picture which is leaning against the
glass doors of bookcase B (its lower edge resting on the horizontal projection
at the base of the doors). Marion is called in at 2.48 p.m. He goes to a book­
case (K) on the opposite side of the room, and then walks away again. But
he goes back to the same bookcase (K). He then looks under the cushions of
the settee. He walks round the room, goes to the gramophone and passes his
hands over it. He then goes to bookcase B. He makes Mr. Bois stand up, and
quickly passes his hands over him, then goes to Mr. Price and makes him
stand up. He again goes to Mr. Bois and feels quickly over his pockets.
11
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Marion pulls Mr. Dribbel out of his chair, but is not satisfied, goes to Mr.
Soal, makes him stand up and feels over his pockets. He then goes to book­
case B and suddenly takes the picture away and finds the knife. This took
him five minutes (from the moment of entering the room).”
Marion was then asked why it is he takes longer at one time than
another to find a hidden object. He replied that in a big audience it is much
easier because everyone thinks hard and is anxious for him to find it. He
said that we subconsciously held back.
_In addition to the experiments I have described in detail, we did eight
similar tests. Of these, two were carried out on 1st February, both being
successful in times four minutes and three minutes, respectively. Two more
were done on 7th February, and in the first of these Marion gave up the
attempt after four minutes; the second was successful in four minutes
nineteen seconds. On 8th February, three experiments were carried out. In
the first experiment, Marion gave up after five minutes; in the second he did
not actually succeed in finding the object, but located very accurately the
corner of the room in which it was hidden; the third experiment was entirely
successful and occupied one minute thirty seconds. The last of these eight
experiments was done on 16th February, and succeeded in one minute
twenty-four seconds from the instant of entering the room.
It will be seen, therefore, that there has been a considerable reduction in
the time required to locate the object from the twenty minutes and fifteen
minutes taken by the first two experiments.
It was obvious that such crude experiments as the above were of little
use for any serious investigation. The definitions of success and failure for
example, were quite arbitrary. If Marion succeeded in finding the object
within, say, a couple of minutes, it might merely mean that he was lucky
enough to hit on the right spot fairly early in his search, and that if he took
eight minutes, he was unlucky. In order, therefore, to put the experiments
on a statistical basis, I purchased of Messrs. Kettle, of New Oxford Street,
six rectangular, rigid boxes of polished tin, provided with lids of the same
material. These boxes measured 5.3 inches long by 3 inches broad by 1.6
inches deep and the lids had an overlap of half-inch. The weight of each
combined tin and lid was just over 3f ozs. We first used these tins at the
fourth sitting on Thursday, 25th January, 1934. As, however, our procedure
was not completely standardised till sitting No. 7 on Wednesday, 7th Febru­
ary^ I propose to ignore the fourteen preliminary experiments which were
carried out previous to 7th February. My reasons for this are as follows. On
the three dates on which the preliminary tests with the tins were carried out,
we frequently varied the object that was hidden in the tins and, further, we
did not always distribute the six tins in precisely the same parts of the room.
Actually we obtained eight first-try successes in these fourteen experiments,
but I ignore them altogether, since from sitting No. 7 onwards our procedure
never varied.
This standard procedure in the case of what I shall call Series A was as
follows:—-The six positions were numbered 1 to 6 in clock-wise order round
the room. No actual numbers, however, were marked on the tins or positions.
These positions are shown in the plan of the room given in Fig. 1. No. 1
position was located anywhere on the left-hand half of the settee. No. 2 was
at the window end of the large table immediately facing my seat, and easily
12
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
within reach of my hand when seated. No. 3 was on the floor close to the
centre of bookcase B. No. 4 was on the ledge in the centre of bookcases F,
G, at a height of 35 inches from the floor. No. 5 was on the top of the gramo­
phone lid at a height of 47 inches from the floor. No. 6 was on the small
note-taker’s table (not at present in use) at a height of 27 inches above the
floor.
The approximate bee-line distances between the consecutive positions
are shown in Fig. 2. It will be seen that the six positions form the vertices
1,2, 3,4,5,6 of an irregular hexagon of which the shortest side is 3 fee17 inches
and the longest 10 feet 10 inches.
The rules of this new “hide and seek” game which were impressed upon
Marion and the sitters were as follows: The object that was hidden was a
lady’s unscented small white handkerchief. I bought several of these handker­
chiefs at Woolworth’s stores, but sometimes Mrs. Goldney or another sitter
provided the handkerchief. I always carefully tested this handkerchief for
scent, both before and after Marion had handled it. The six tins with lids on
were placed in their respective positions. The handkerchief was given to
Marion to hold for a few seconds, and he then handed it back to me. Mean­
while the sitters were seated around the large table as shown in Fig. 1, Mr.
Price and I always occupying the positions marked P and S. Marion now left
the room. If Mr. Van Lier was present, he left the room with Marion, except
on one or two occasions that have been carefully noted. The door was care­
fully closed. I then took from my pocket a die and shook it in the tin box
(closed) that was immediately in front of me. I showed the number recorded
by the die to Miss Beenham, who recorded it in her notebook. I never spoke
aloud this number, but merely pointed with my finger to the position in
which the handkerchief was to be hidden—this position of course corres­
ponding to the number shown by the die. I then walked round the room,
with the handkerchief in my hand, now and then stopping at a tin, taking
off the lid and putting it on again. When I arrived at the tin into which the
handkerchief was to be put, I carried the tin to the middle of the floor, put in
the handkerchief, and closed the lid, being careful to see that no portion of
handkerchief was visible. I then carried the tin back and laid it down gently
in its position. I then took the lids off'another tin or two, and replaced them.
Assisted sometimes by Mr. Price or another sitter, I next gave every tin a
random push of a few inches. I put the die in my waistcoat pocket or some­
times held it in my clenched hand, but never let it lie exposed on the table.
We next took our seats, and I clapped and shouted “ Come in” . Now, as
regards the sitters, it was understood that they were to follow Marion with
their eyes in all his movements round the room, willing him to go to the right
tin, but that they were not to give any obvious indications, such as a nod of
the head, or other sign. Complete silence was to be preserved by the sitters
while Marion was in the room. As regards Marion himself, he was told that
he was not to touch any tin unless he meant to lift it and open it. If the tin
which he opened contained the handkerchief, the experiment was, of course,
finished, but if the tin did not contain the handkerchief, he was to open one of
the five remaining tins. After he had opened the second tin, the experiment
was finished whether this tin contained the handkerchief or not. As soon as
Marion entered the room, or usually before his entry, Miss Beenham laid her
stop-watch on the number shown in her note-book, or else turned the page.
13
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
She was, in this respect, extremely careful, as I verified constantly. Miss
Beenham sat, usually, in the position R at the large table shown in Fig. 1,
or sometimes a little back from the table in a position R x. The same
handkerchief was used for the next experiment and was again held by Marion
for a few seconds. The lids of the tins that had been opened by Marion or
ourselves were not replaced till Marion had again left the room. The tins
were always replaced in their original positions; i.e., the tin that had been on
the gramophone in experiment 1 was replaced on the gramophone in ex­
periment 2 and so on with the other tins. The tins whose lids had been re­
moved as well as the tin in which the handkerchief was to be hidden afresh,
were carried to the centre of room, and the lids then replaced. One or two
other lids were taken off and replaced, and when all the lids were on and the
handkerchief hidden, each tin was given a random push of a few inches.
This last item was “de rigueur” and never on any single occasion omitted. It
was not considered necessary for Marion to be accompanied outside the room
in this series, since the door has no keyhole, and the number thrown by the
die was never spoken aloud. In subsequent series, I have accompanied Marion
scores of times outside the room, and I can say without hesitation that no­
thing whatever could be learned of any use by listening at the door.
When Marion enters the room, his eyes seem half-closed and often his
left hand is on his fore-head, and his right held out in front at the level of his
head. He walks rapidly round the room, sometimes in a clockwise, but usually
in a counter-clockwise direction. As he comes to each tin, he pauses slightly
and waves his right hand once or twice above the tin, bringing it as a rule (in
this series) to within two inches of the lid, but without touching the lid. He
passes on doing the same at each tin. All the time he does not appear to look
at his audience. When he has completed the circuit of the tins, he will stride
across to one particular part of the room, say, towards the gramophone.
Then, perhaps, he will hesitate with his right hand waving slightly above the
tin (No. 6) on the note-taker’s table, and his left hand above (No. 5) on the
gramophone. Suddenly, he seizes the tin, say, on the gramophone, and opens
it. The handkerchief is not there. He immediately seizes the tin (No. 6) on
the note-taker’s table, opens it and pulls out the handkerchief. This hesita­
tion between two tins which are in the same part of the room, e.g., Nos. 5 and
6, Nos. 4 and 5, or Nos. 2 and 3, was a constantly recurring feature of the
performance. It was especially noticeable in the case of Nos. 5 and 6, the two
positions that were nearest together, and it suggested strongly that what
Marion succeeded in getting first was the general direction of his objective.
Sometimes, for example, he would remain almost the whole time at one end
of the room (say round about Nos. 4, 5, 6) and finally choose one of these
three. At other times, it would soon be clear that he had made up his mind
that the handkerchief was to be chosen from Nos. 1, 2, and 3.
Sometimes, however, he would make up his mind that the choice lay
between two tins that were far apart, for instance, between Nos. 2 and 4.
He would walk across the room from one to the other waving a hand gently
over each. Then suddenly, without hesitation, he would walk over to one of
the two and open it. In such cases, he generally found the handkerchief. If
the reader will turn to Plate 1, he will see Marion in a typical posture of
hesitation between Nos. 5 and 6.
14
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
A n a l y s is of Se r ie s A.
In all, 104 experiments were done in this series. In every one of these
experiments, a die was used to decide into which tin the sitters were to put the
handkerchief, or to concentrate their minds upon in the event of no handker­
chief being used. This use of the die, of course, obviates the possibility of our
preferences for certain positions coinciding with those of Marion. I must
explain here that eight experiments (the series 10c) are included in these 104
experiments in which the general conditions being the same, no handkerchief
was used, but the die being cast as usual, the sitters were simply asked to
think of the empty tin and will Marion to open it. There are also included in
this series, three experiments (Sitting 10b) in which the handkerchief was
hidden in a tin, but in such a way that no one in the room was consciously
aware of the particular tin in which it was hidden. In these three experi­
ments, the die was cast and the sitters asked to think of the corresponding
tin and will Marion to open it. These sub-series 10b and 10c are discussed
separately in due course. In 10a [Table I] the conditions were the ordinary
conditions prevailing throughout the series.
T a b l e I. Se r ie s A.
No. of
Sitting
No. of
Experiments
No. Correct
First Try
No. Correct
Second Try
Sitters Present
(abbreviations)
7 6 4 1 b, c, d, g (m), p, s, v.
8 7 4 2 b, r, P, S (m), M, s, v.
9 6 4 1 b, c, d, B, g (m), r, s, v, p
10 (a) 5 5 0 b, C, C1, d, g (m), s, p.
(b) 3 1 0 ditto
(c) 8 4 2 ditto.
11 10 4 3 b, c, d, g (m), r, p, s, v.
12 (a) 8 5 1 T, b, p (m), s.
(b) 6 1 0 b, s (only), (m).
13 14 7 3 b, *d, d1, g, p, s (m).
14 11 2 4 b, c, F, F1, p, s (m).
15 (a) 8 1 0 b, c, D, J, g, p, s (m).
(b) 10 2 5 b, c, g, p, s (m).
20 2 2 0 b, c, B1, H, g, p, s (m), d.
T o t a l s 104 46 22
*d, d1. In Sitting 13, Mr. Dribbel and Mrs. Dribbel joined us after the third experi­
ment.
Abbreviations: (b) = Miss Beenham, (c)= Mr. Collins, (d)=M r. Dribbel, (d1
) =
Mrs. Dribbel, (g) = Mrs. Goldney, (m) =Marion, (s) = S. G. Soal, (p) = Mr. Harry
Price, M = Marion’s secretary, (r)=Mrs. Henry Richards, (v )= Mr. Van Lier, D = Dr.
Dingwall, C = Mr. Chance, Cx= Mrs. Chance, J = C. E. M. Joad, B = Mr. Bois, P = Miss
Paul, S = Lord Sands, Bx= Herr Beiber, H = Mr. Ellic Howe, F = Dr. Gordon Fleming,
F*= Mr. S. W. Fleming, T = Mr. Grant Taylor.
Statistics o f T a b le I (Se r ie s A ).
In N trials the most probable number of guesses which are correct
first try is N/6 and since whenever the experiment failed on the first try we
insisted upon a second try, the most probable number of guesses correct
second try is also N/6, assuming only chance to operate.
15
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
The most probable number of first tries correct and second tries correct
taken together is, therefore, N/3.
In order to estimate what are the odds against getting a given number r
or more successes in a given number of trials N, where p is the chance of
success in a single trial and q = 1 —■
p is the chance of failure in a single trial,
we have only to use the elementary statistical formula that the chance of
getting r or more successes in N trials is:
N!
r! (N -r)!
r N-
pq
- ' H
N - r
r + 1
(N -r) (N -r -1 )
( r + l ) ( r + 2)
In our experiments p = q = 1—x
e = |, so that |=¿ when we are considering
only first try successes.
But if we lump the first and second tries together, we must take p = J,
q = §. Referring to table I, we see that Marion’s friend (v) took part in
twenty-nine experiments and reference to Miss Beenham’s notes shows that
Mr. Van Lier went outside the room with Marion at all experiments except
those in sittings No. 7 and No. 8, i.e., except in thirteen experiments. Further
it appears that in Sitting 8, Marion’s secretary was allowed to remain in the
room. This was the only occasion on which Marion brought his secretary to
the séance, and I allowed him to remain because I was under a misapprehen­
sion as to his identity. To be on the safe side, therefore, we must discard the
thirteen experiments of Sittings 7 and 8.
This leaves us with a total of ninety-one experiments of which thirty-
eight were successful at first try, and nineteen at the second try. Considering
only first tries, we put N = 91, r = 38 ; p =•£•, q = f in our formula and find
after some laborious computation, that the chance of getting thirty-eight
or more successes in ninety-one trials is 1.41 x 10-8, i.e., about one in
seventy-one millions nearly.
It is, therefore, incontestable that, under the conditions of Series A,
Marion succeeds definitely in finding the handkerchief.
An inspection of Table I shows some rather remarkable runs of success
in short series of trials at individual sittings. For example in the series 10a,
Marion finds the handkerchief first try five times in succession. The chance*
of getting such a run is, of course, 1 x 6-5, i.e., 1 in 7,776. On the other hand,
it will be seen that in the series 12b in which all the sitters had departed
except Miss Beenham and myself (b and s), there is only one success in six
trials.
Serie s B.
Our next step was to discover whether Marion was able to locate the
handkerchief in the case where no person present was consciously able to
identify the particular tin in winch it was hidden.
The procedure was as follows:
Marion held the handkerchief for a few seconds, and then left the room,
the door of which was carefully closed behind him. The six tins with their
fids on were placed on the sitters’ table. The light proof blind having been
drawn, the electric light was switched out. I then thoroughly shuffled the
tins in the dark and opened one at random, put the handkerchief in this tin
loosely so that it would not shake about, and replaced the lid. I next dropped
* i.e. Chance for an isolated group of five trials.
16
PLATE I
Marion
making
a
“
trial”
of
a
tin
box
as
to
whether
it
contains
a
hidden
object.
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
the tins into a large linen bag, turned on the light and shook up the bag. I
then rapidly went round the room quickly withdrawing a tin, and placing it
in one of the six positions. At the end of this operation, I can say without
hesitation that consciously I had not the least idea where the handkerchief
lay. Still less could the other sitters have known where it was. _We then
seated ourselves round the table in the usual way, and recalled Marion to the
room. I should explain that in this series Marion was taken into our confi­
dence as to the changed nature of the experiment, and told exactly what the
conditions were. Throughout our investigation, I have as far as possible
avoided practising petty deceptions upon Marion, as being likely to alienate
his sympathies from us. I felt it was much better for him to know exactly
what we were attempting to discover, and I told him that if we found his
gift failed under certain conditions, that was quite as valuable to us, from a
scientific standpoint, as were the successful experiments and no discredit
whatever to him. Marion cheerfully accepted the new conditions, though I
soon found that failure bewildered and depressed him. When Marion entered
the room, it was soon obvious that he had lost much of his former confidence.
He hesitated longer over the individual tins, and sometimes took as long as
21 minutes instead of the customary 30-60 seconds before he opened a tin.
On several occasions, he confessed that the experiment was now very difficult
and that the “ feeling” he got was “very faint” . Sometimes after opening the
wrong tin, he would say “ I was only guessing; I got no real feeling at all” . It
was a difficult ordeal for Marion, and he preserved an admirable good humour
that impressed us all very favourably.
This series of experiments was carried out at Sittings 9 and 10. The
names of the sitters present can be seen by a reference to Table I (Series A).
In this series there was, of course, no need for Mr. Van Lier to leave the room
in Sitting 9, as he had done in the previous (Series A) experiments on the
same date. A reference to Table I, Sittings 9 and 10 (a) shows also that
Marion’s faculty under “Series A” conditions was working particularly well
on these two days. It can therefore hardly be urged that his total inability to
find the handkerchief was due to a temporary lack of form. We did nine
experiments at Sitting. 9 and ten experiments at Sitting 10. I have only
recorded here “first-try” guesses for the reason that on several occasions,
Marion was so discouraged that he would not open a second tin after the first
had been found empty. At Sitting No. 10 the conditions were the same as in
Sitting No. 9 with the slight variations that instead of using the linen bag, I
put the tins in a large sack provided by Mr. Price, and that Mr. Chance
assisted me in distributing the tins in their places round the room, in order to
save time.
The results of the experiments are as follows:
T a b l e II. Se r ie s B.
No. No. of No. Correct
Sitting Experiments First Try
9 9 1
10 10 1
T o t a l s 19 2
B 17
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Marion, therefore, is correct only two times out of nineteen guesses which is,
of course, no better than a chance result.
It was quite unnecessary to continue this series as my subsequent ex­
periments showed that Marion was unable to succeed under much less
stringent conditions than these.
Serie s C.
We next performed three short series of experiments in order to show
that Marion’s holding of the handkerchief was not a necessary condition of
success.
In the first series C (i) the conditions were the same as in Series A with
one innovation. I had purchased six small white ladies’ handkerchiefs at
Woolworth’s which I kept in various pockets. I handed one of these to
Marion to hold as usual, but when he had left the room, instead of putting
this handkerchief in the tin indicated by the die, I stowed it away in an
empty pocket and then placed the first of the remaining five handkerchiefs in
the tin. This was done unknown to Marion and in the first ten experiments,
unknown to the other sitters. When Marion opened the tin and perhaps found
a handkerchief inside, I removed it from the tin and put it back in a pocket
which I specially noted. I then handed Marion for the next experiment the
same handkerchief that he had held before and again returned it to the empty
pocket. I then put handkerchief No. 3 in the tin indicated by the die, and
proceeded in this way until my five handkerchiefs were run through. The
point is that Marion always held the same handkerchief, but that this hand­
kerchief was never put into a tin. For the remaining five experiments on this
date I ran through the five handkerchiefs again, always letting Marion hold
the original handkerchief and never putting this into a tin. As a guarantee of
my good faith, I had, previous to this series of experiments, prepared a state­
ment describing what I intended to do, and when the ten experiments were
finished, I showed this statement to the other sitters. The reason why I
practised this innocent deception upon the sitters was that I was afraid that
if any of them believed strongly in the virtue of the “sensing” of the handker­
chief, they might themselves lose confidence if they were aware that another
handkerchief had been substituted and so, by their demeanour, betray to
Marion that a little trick had been played upon him. At the end of this
series of ten, I told Marion also what I had done. He did not appear at all
perturbed.
At Sitting No. 12, I did an additional five experiments under the same
conditions, the only variation being that this time I took the sitters into my
confidence and told Marion after the series was finished.
The results were as follows:
T a b l e III. Serie s C (i)
No. of No. of No. Correct No. Correct
Sitting Experiments First Try Second Try
1
1 10 4 3
12 5 2 1
T o t a l s 15 6 4
18
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
If we lump first and second tries together, we have ten successes as against
the five predicted by chance.
The chance of getting ten or more successes in fifteen trials is about 1 in
117. This is not a high significance, but when we consider it in conjunction with
the results of Series C (ii) and C (iii), it assumes its true importance. Series
C (ii) and C (iii) are essentially the same experiment except for a slight differ­
ence in procedure.
In Series C (ii) the conditions were the same as in Series A, except that
no object was hidden in the tin. When Marion had left the room, I shook the
die and directed the sitters to concentrate their minds on the particular tin
that corresponded with the number shown by the die. Marion was then re­
called and tried to pick out the tin we had chosen. This series was carried out
at Sitting No. 10 and the list of sitters can be found in Table 1 ,10 (c).
In Series C (iii) the six tins were shaken up in a bag exactly as in Sitting
No. 9 [Series B], so that the sitters were ignorant as to which tin contained
the handkerchief. However, when Marion had left the room, I directed the
sitters to concentrate their minds on a particular tin and to will that Marion
should open that tin. In the first six of this series (Sitting 9), I did not actually
throw the die, but merely chose any tin that I fancied. In the remaining
three experiments (Sitting 10), I chose the tin by a throw of the die, this being,
of course, the more correct procedure. Marion was let into the secret after
the first experiment of the series (Sitting 9).
We may conveniently consider the two series C (ii) and C (iii) together.
T a b l e IV. Se r ie s C (ii) a n d C (iii).
Series
No. of
Sitting
No. of
Experiments
No. Correct
First Try
No. Correct
Second Try
C (ii.) 10 8 4 2
C (iii.) 9 6 4 1
10 3 1 0
T o t a l s 17 9 3
Taking into account only "first-try” successes, the chance of getting
nine or more correct guesses in seventeen trials is nearly 1 in 1511, which is
quite a significant result.
We may reasonably conclude that the "sensing” of the handkerchief is
not a necessary condition for success.
Se r ie s D.
We had now to enquire into the part played by the audience in Marion’s
performance. For my preliminary experiments, I procured a number of thick
blankets. I first left the room with Marion and led him into the office, where
I engaged him in conversation. While I was outside the room, Mr. Price
shook the die and hid the handkerchief (which Marion had previously held
for a few seconds) in the tin indicated by the die. He then put the die in his
pocket and took his usual place at the table with the other sitters. For
the list of sitters, see Table 1, Sittings 11 and 13. Each sitter, including Mr.
19
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Price, then put a blanket over his head and shoulders, so that his hands, arms,
head, shoulders, chest and trunk were completely covered. In each experi­
ment the sitters, unless instructed otherwise, pressed a finger upon the
meatus of each ear so as to close the passage of the outer ear. Marion and I
were then called in and, on entering the room, Marion exclaimed in a loud
voice “ Now I commence!” I remained uncovered, moving about in such a
way that I could see all Marion’s movements, and standing so that he should
never get his back between myself and a tin box. This required unremitting
vigilance on my part. Once or twice Marion’s hand appeared to graze the
lid of a box, and I had to warn him to be careful.
After the first few experiments, the sitters told me that they were
generally conscious of the particular part of the room where Marion happened
to be by the vibration of the floor under his feet. The stopping of the ears,
therefore, was not really effective. We did, in all, twenty-eight experiments:
nineteen at Sitting No. 11 and nine at Sitting No. 13. A reference to Table I
will show that at both these sittings, Marion was in quite good form when
working under Series A conditions. But the blankets seemed on both occa­
sions to stop the run of success immediately. On both occasions we began
with “ Series A” work. Of the twenty-eight experiments, there were eight
in which I asked the sitters not to stop their ears, but still to keep hands and
arms covered. The results of the whole series are given below.
T a b l e V. Se r ie s D.
No. of No. of No. Correct No. Correct
Sitting Experiments First Try Second Try
11 19 3 4
13 9 1 3
T o t a l s 28 4 7
This result is obviously what chance might produce. In the eight experi­
ments (last eight in Sitting 13) in which the sitters’ ears were unstopped,
there was one success at first try and three guesses right at second try—a
result which again could easily be the work of chance.
I was not, however, satisfied with this experiment, since it seemed quite
possible that the sitters were able to follow roughly Marion’s movements
about the room and that, on the other hand, Marion was perhaps able to-
notice twitchings, etc. of the blankets from which he might draw certain,
conclusions.
My next plan was to have an opaque white curtain rigged up across the
window end of the seance-room. This curtain was suspended from a line at a
height of 7 feet 3 inches from the floor and the trace of which is marked in
Fig. 1. Dr. E. J. Dingwall happened to be present on the first day on which
this curtain was in position, and he verified that when the light-proof shutter
of the window was down, the movements of legs, arms, etc. of a person
standing behind the curtain were invisible to anyone inside the room. The
curtain was made in two sections and at intervals there were tiny peep holes,
J-inch in diameter, so that a person behind the curtain could watch Marion’s.
20
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
movements inside the room, without any part of his own body being visible
to Marion. The light was, of course, switched on in the room, but there was
no electric light behind the curtains. My idea was that the sitters should
stand behind the curtain and watch Marion through the chink holes as he
perambulated the room, willing him to open the tin which contained the
handkerchief.
We began this new series (Series E) on 7th March (Sitting 15) at 5.8| p.m.
Mr. Price who had taken part in the earlier experiments, had gone home and
there remained only Mrs. Goldney, Mr. Collins, and Miss Beenham, who was
taking notes. I will quote one of Miss Beenham’s records—that of the second
experiment:
“ 5.13 p.m. Marion and Mr. Soal go out of the room. The die is shaken,
and two turns up. The handkerchief is put in the tin on the table. We all
go behind the curtains again, and call Marion and Mr. Soal in. This time we
watch through the various chink holes in the curtains, and will Marion to go
to the right tin. Marion holds his hand above each tin for some seconds. He
then takes the tin from the gramophone, and then the tin from the floor.
Both wrong. Time 1 min. 35 secs.”
When I entered the room, I moved about so that I always had a clear
view of the tin over which Marion was passing his hand. The records show
that in the eighth experiment on this date, Marion slightly touched one of
the tins, but this experiment as well as experiment No. 4 has to be discarded
on other grounds owing to a mistake which it is of value to record. After
entering the room at experiment No. 4 ,1 noticed, on reaching the end of the
table just behind Marion, that the die had been left on the table by either
Mrs. Goldney or Mr. Collins, and further, that the die was recording 4.
Marion passed round the window end of the sitters’ table, passed his hand
above tins 1, 6, and 5, and then proceeded to the tin, No. 4, on the bookcase,
opened it and found the handkerchief. Now, there is not the slightest doubt
that Marion knew the order in which the tins were numbered round the room,
because at the previous sitting, after we had finished our afternoon’s work in
order to create a diversion, I undertook to play the role of Marion who re­
mained in the room with the other sitters. Whether Marion had consciously
or unconsciously observed the number 4 on the die is, of course, immaterial;
it must be assumed that he was guided to the right tin. This was an unfortu­
nate lapse on the part of my fellow-experimenters: Mr. Price and I had never
failed to conceal the die as a matter of routine. The incident was repeated at
experiment 8, when I again found the die on the table and again registering
the number of the tin which contained the handkerchief. Marion, who must
have seen the die before I could pick it up, again opened the correct tin, No. 4.
My only course was to discard these two experiments altogether. The un­
pleasant shock of these mishaps taught me two things. First, I had been
foolish to go on with the experiments after Mr. Price’s departure, especially
after an afternoon’s work which had probably tired my co-operators. In the
second place, it showed me the cleverness of Marion who, consciously or un­
consciously, would instantly avail himself of the slightest lack of vigilance on
our part. In the succeeding experiments, Mr. Price took charge of the die,
putting it invariably in his pocket.
We continued this series at Sitting No. 16, on Friday, 9th March,
2.39 p.m. On this occasion, there were present: Mr. Harry Price; Mrs. A. Peel
21
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Goldney; Mr. H. S. Collins; Mr. Maitland-Woolf; Mr. Rathmell Wilson;
Mr. S. G. Soal, Marion, and Miss Ethel Beenham, who took notes.
The procedure was as follows: After each experiment, the six tins were
taken from their places, opened, and carried to the central table where they
were placed beside their corresponding lids. The light-proof shutter of the
window was drawn, and the light switched on in the seance-room.
The curtain with its chink holes was rigged up as in the preceding
sitting. Marion held the handkerchief for a few seconds and then accom­
panied me outside the room. I took him into the office and engaged him in
conversation. Mr. Price shook the die and Miss Beenham registered the
number in her note-book. The handkerchief was allowed to cool for a minute
or a minute and a half. It was then placed in the tin which belonged to the
number shown by the die, and allowed to cool again. The lids were then
placed on the tins and they were conveyed to their respective positions.
Mr. Price put the die in his pocket and all the sitters, including, of course,
Miss Beenham who was provided with a seat, took their places behind the
curtain. They then shouted and clapped loudly as a signal for Marion and
myself to enter the room. We entered, and as Marion moved, so I changed
my own position in such wise as always to have the tin in view over which he
was holding his hand. The sitters meanwhile were also watching Marion
through the chink holes and willing him to open the right tin.
Under the new conditions Marion’s tactics were observed to have con­
siderably changed. Instead of walking rapidly round the room with a slight
downward wave of the hand over each tin as he passed it, Marion stopped at
every tin and spent sometimes 20-30 seconds waving his open palm up and
down above the lids. I stood near and watched him carefully. Sometimes he
brought his hand down gently till it was almost grazing the lid. I had to warn
him to be careful not to touch the tin. Marion said that unless he was allowed
to put his hand close to the lid (though not touching) he would be unable to
succeed. He said he had lost all confidence in himself. When I accompanied
him outside the room after each experiment, he seemed anxious and worried.
He was keeping an independent record of his successes and failures on a piece
of paper, and I did my best to encourage him by praising him whenever
he got a “second try” right and by telling him that he would soon get used
to the new conditions. He would anxiously count up his successes and ask
me if the result were beyond chance yet.
At the ninth experiment, as Marion passed the tin (No. 2) on the table,
he was observed to touch it, and on stooping over the tin on the floor, he was
seen to touch this tin (No. 3) also. He then went back to the table, and
opened the tin (No. 2) and found the handkerchief. I was, of course, unable
to prevent this and had no option but to neglect the experiment altogether.
At the end of experiment No. 9, Mr. Price came out from behind the cur­
tain and talked very gravely but calmly to Marion, telling him that if he
were allowed to touch the tins, he, Mr. Price, would also be able to succeed
in locating the handkerchief. In order to demonstrate this to Marion, Mr.
Price went behind the curtains with Miss Beenham, while I put the hand­
kerchief in one of the six tins and replacing the Ms, shuffled the tins on the
table.
Mr. Price then came out from behind the curtain, and lifted each tin
from the table in turn. The first did not contain the handkerchief, but the
22
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
second did. After this warning, Marion kept his hand at a distance of two
or three inches from the lids, but in experiment No. 15, he seemed to graze
lid of No. 2, but as this tin did not contain the handkerchief, I have retained
the experiment, counting it as a “second-try” success since when Marion
arrived at the tin on the floor, he opened it and found the handkerchief. At
Sitting 17, we continued this series (E) and there were present on this occasion
(Friday, 16th March), Mr. Harry Price; Dr. Cossar of Queen Mary College,
Mr. Alex. L. Dribbel, Mr. H. S. Collins, Mr. Ellic Howe, Marion, Mr. S. G.
Soal, and Mss Ethel Beenham, taking notes.
The manipulation of the tins was the same as in Sitting 16, and time was
again allowed for the handkerchief to cool. The arrangements of the curtains,
etc., were also the same. After experiment No. 13, on this date, I stood on a
chair from which I could see all the tins from above, since Marion said that
my movements were disturbing to him. At experiment 11, I had to warn
Marion again to be careful as his hand was going near the lids. In fact, in
passing his hand over the tin (No. 2) on the table, he appeared to graze the
lid. As, however, this experiment was a total failure, I retain it. From my
position on the chair, I was at some little distance from No. 1 on the settee,
but this tin was under the direct observation of the sitters behind the curtain
and I instructed them to watch it carefully. Marion again kept a private
record of his successes and failures and appeared anxious. At Sitting No. 18
(Friday, 23rd March, 2.30 p.m.), we did six more experiments of Series E.
There were present Mr. Harry Price; Mr. H. S. Collins; Mr. Ellic Howe;
Mrs. A. Peel Goldney; Mr. S. G. Soal; Marion, and Miss Beenham, taking
notes. The results of Series E are given in Table VI.
T a b le VI. Se rie s E. (Sitte rs B e h in d Cu rta in s).
No. of
Sitting
No. of
Experiments
No. Correct
First Try
No. Correct
Second Try
Sitters Present
(abbreviations)
15 9 3 2 b, g, c, s (m).
16 (a) 24 4 4 b, g, c, p (m), s, W, W1.
(b)* 5 1 2 ditto.
17 20 4 4 b, d, c, p, s (m), H, C11.
18 6 1 1 b, c, g, p, s, H.
T o t a l s 64 13 13
The abbreviations are the same as those appended to Table I (p. 15), but
W = Mr. Maitland-Woolf, W1= Mr. Rathmell Wilson; C1
1= Dr. Cossar;
H = Mr. Elbe Howe.
It will be seen that in sixty-four trials, we obtain thirteen first-try
successes as compared with an expectation of 10.66. The excess is without
significance. In fact, the chance of getting thirteen or more successes in
sixty-four trials, is nearly 100 in 382, i.e., greater than 1 in 4.
If, on the other hand, we take into consideration “second-try” successes,
we see that Marion has scored twenty-six successes with p = 1 in 3. The
* Series 16 (b) was done on the same afternoon as 16 (a), but at an interval of
forty-seven minutes after the end of 16 (a).
23
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
chance of obtaining twenty-six or more successes out of sixty-four trials is
about .1352, i.e., about 1 in 7.4, a result which again has no significance.
The total failure of the curtain and blanket experiments, in comparison
with the high percentage of successes obtained in Series A, made it fairly
probable that for Marion to succeed, it was vitally necessary that he should be
able to see some part of the body of a person who knew in which tin the hand­
kerchief was hidden, or be able to observe his bodily movements in some way.
But this failure also settled another important question. It showed that
Marion, when carefully watched, was quite unable to obtain any significant
degree of success from the tins themselves. It had occurred to some of us
that Marion, who has a very sensitive touch, might be able to distinguish
small differences in the intensity of radiant heat emitted by an empty tin
compared with the tin which contained the handkerchief. This seemed to me
improbable in view of the fact that polished tins are such bad radiators and
that, therefore, the intensity of heat radiated would be very low in either
case. But in view of the failure of Series B, D, and E, it seemed very unlikely
that Marion was getting any significant indications from the tins themselves.
Later on, I took special precautions to protect the tins by completely covering
them with the inverted bottoms of larger tins.
T rials w it h I n d iv id u a l Sit t e r s .
An inspection of Table I (Series A) seemed to suggest that the results
were particularly successful on those occasions when Mr. Alex. Dribbel was
in the audience. Thus Marion got 58.8 per cent of first-try successes in the
fifty-one experiments at which Mr. Dribbel was present and only 30 per cent
in the fifty-three experiments at which he was absent. These figures, of
course, are not cited as furnishing any satisfactory proof that Mr. Dribbel
really favoured success more than the other sitters, but they suggested that
it might be worth while to commence observing him apart from the rest of
the sitters.
We began our first trials with Mr. Dribbel at Sitting No. 20, on Friday,
18th May. There were present: Mr. Harry Price, Mr. H. S. Collins, Mrs.
A. Peel Goldney, Mr. Ellic Howe, Herr Fritz Bieber, Mr. S. G. Soal, and Miss
Ethel Beenham, taking notes.
Mr. Dribbel arrived at 2.46 p.m., a little later than the others, and
immediately on his arrival we commenced. Mr. Dribbel struck me as being a
trifle self-conscious and very much on his guard as though he were well aware
of being under observation. We began by doing two ordinary Series A ex­
periments with all the sitters seated round the table in the usual way.
[See Table I, Sitting No. 20] Both these were successful at first try. The
sitters then all stood behind the curtain watching through the chink holes,
the light proof blind having been drawn—that is, all with the exception of
Mr. Dribbel and myself. I gave Marion the small handkerchief to hold for a
few seconds and he then left the room, the door being closed behind him.
The six tins were placed open on the table, their lids beside them. I shook
the die in a tin after replacing the lid and showed the throw to Miss Beenham
who was behind the curtain, and who recorded it. I put the handkerchief in
the corresponding tin and placed the six tins in their usual positions. I then
put the die in my pocket. Mr. Dribbel had now seated himself at the window
24
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
end of the table facing bookcase B. (See Fig. 1). I sat down on the other side
of the table directly facing him. I then clapped for Marion to come in. While
Marion walked round the room, I covered my face with my left hand and
looked through my fingers, keeping my features as passive as possible and my
breathing even. I kept glancing from Marion to Mr. Dribbel, always keeping
my face covered. Mr. Dribbel’s face was like a mask, and he seemed deter­
mined not to give anything away. I tried to observe if there was any change
in his expression when Marion approached the correct tin, but remarked
•nothing. Marion opened two tins, one after the other, but both were wrong.
[Time = forty-five seconds.]
For the next experiment, Mr. Dribbel stood up at the table and I
observed him through my fingers as before. Again both Marion’s guesses
were wrong and Mr. Dribbel’s face seemed to me impassive as before. [Time =
one minute thirty-five seconds].
For the third experiment, Mr. Dribbel again stood up at the table, facing
my seat. Again I noticed nothing. Marion was correct at the second guess.
[Time = one minute thirty-five seconds.]
It now seemed clear to me that Mr. Dribbel was concentrating his mind
on the control of his muscles and in order to try to make him forget himself,
I suggested that from now onwards, he should follow Marion round the room,
with his hands clasped behind his back and will him to open the correct tin.
I sat at the table as before, carefully keeping my breathing even and my face
calm. We did thirteen experiments of this kind, seven before the tea interval,
and six after tea. In this series, Marion scored seven successes at first try
and five at second try, and one complete failure. To estimate the true signi­
ficance of this result, it is best to consider it as giving twelve successes out of
thirteen trials on a 1 in 3 chance. The chance of getting twelve or more
first and second-try successes combined is 1 in 59,049. But if we ignore
"second-try” successes, the chance of getting seven or more "first-try”
successes in thirteen trials is 1 in 417. We may reasonably conclude that
Marion has definitely succeeded with Mr. Dribbel following him round the
room. But I certainly noticed no changes in expression in Mr. Dribbel’s face,
or anything special about his movements when he approached the tin con­
taining the handkerchief. The only thing that struck me at all forcibly was
that as he was passing me, he seemed to be breathing very hard as though he
had been holding his breath recently and had now relaxed. Mrs. Goldney had
noticed in the Series A experiments that Mr. Dribbel had appeared to hold
his breath on several occasions. If Mr. Dribbel began to hold his breath as
Marion approached the right tin, and relaxed when he started to move away
from it, Marion would be given a valuable clue.
I had intended at our next sitting (No. 21), on Friday, 15th June, to try
out some further tests with Mr. Dribbel, but he was unavoidably prevented
from reaching the laboratory until the sitting was half over. And so, not to
waste time, I suggested to Mr. Collins that he should follow Marion round the
room. There were present: Mr. Harry Price, Mr. H. S. Collins, Mr. S. G. Soal
and Miss Beenham (taking notes). The sitting commenced at 1.41 p.m.
The procedure was as follows: I left the room with Marion and took him into
the office. Mr. Price then shook the die, and Miss Beenham recorded the
number thrown. The handkerchief was put into one of the tins and the tins
were then distributed in the usual places and the lids replaced. Mr. Price
25
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
and Miss Beenham then went behind the curtains and watched through the
chink-holes, the light proof shutter being drawn. Mr. Price put the die in his
pocket. Meanwhile, Mr. Collins, who, of course, knew which tin contained the
handkerchief, stood near the door ready to walk behind Marion as soon as he
entered the room. Marion and I were recalled and Mr. Collins immediately
began to follow Marion wherever he went, always keeping about a yard
behind Marion and holding his hands clasped behind his back. When Marion
stopped, Mr. Collins stopped, and so on. In the meantime, I remained in the
room acting as umpire, watching to see that Marion did not touch any of
the tins, and also glancing at Mr. Collins’ face and movements. Marion passed
rather quickly round the room as in the Series A. experiments, the time for
each experiment varying between twenty and thirty-nine seconds only. He
did not on any occasion touch or graze a tin. During the whole time, Mr.
Collins’ face seemed to me as impassive as a mask. Nor could I notice any
peculiarity in his breathing as he passed me.
We did eight experiments after this fashion, and Marion obtained six
guesses correct at first try and one guess correct at second try. The chance
of getting six or more guesses correct at first try in eight trials is 1 in 2240, a
result which is pretty conclusive.
I then made Mr. Collins wear a domino linen half mask provided with a
pair of eye-holes. Over these eye-holes, I had carefully stitched pieces of
black stockinette so that Mr. Collins could see quite clearly through the holes.
It was impossible, however, for his own eyes to be seen or any movements of
his eyes or eyelids, owing to the stockinette. His mouth, on the other hand,
was uncovered. The domino was held in position by a rubber band which
passed over his ears and round the back of his head.
Under precisely the same conditions as before, Mr. Collins followed
Marion round the room with hands clasped behind him. I acted as umpire,
and the other sitters were behind the curtain.
We did three experiments with Mr. Collins wearing this domino, and
Marion was successful at first try in all three. [Chance = 1 in 216.] It was,
therefore, clear that blinking or eye movements were not the cause of
Marion’s success. [The times for these three experiments, respectively, were
seventeen seconds, forty seconds, thirty-three seconds.]
I next caused Mr. Collins to wear over his head a thin tea-cosy of coarse
linen, discarding the domino. This tea-cosy closely fitted his head and covered
his neck. It was impossible to see any of Mr. Collins’ features, or any facial
movements through the tea-cosy, but Mr. Collins himself could see through
the mesh well enough. I did three experiments with Mr. Collins wearing the
tea-cosy and following Marion, the other conditions being precisely the same
as in the preceding series. In the third experiment, we used, however,
instead of the handkerchief, a small black velvet cat (a little mascot, measur­
ing three inches long). Marion held the cat for a few seconds, as he had done
the handkerchief. I acted as umpire and the other sitters were behind the
curtains. Marion was successful in all three experiments at first-try. [Chance
= 1 in 216.]
I now repeated this experiment with the sole variation that Mr. Collins
wore over the tea-cosy a black stockinette hood which completely covered
head, neck and shoulders. Through this combination, Mr. Collins could see
just sufficiently well to follow Marion round the room and to recognise the
26
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
various objects in it. With the above variation, we did two experiments and
both were successful at first try. We thus have, altogether, five experiments
in which Mr. Collins’ features were completely invisible to Marion. The
chance of getting five successes in five trials is, of course, 1 in 6s, i.e., 1 in
7776.
We may conclude that Marion does not necessarily rely upon watching
changes in facial expression for his indicia—at least, in the case where he is
being followed round the room.
The wearing of the tea-cosy and hood does not, however, preclude head
movements, either of rotation, or of nodding, being the sources of indicia.
I next tried the experiment with Mr. Collins still wearing the tea-cosy
and hood, but seated at the central table instead of following Marion round
the room. Mr. Collins sat at table A in my position (marked S) in Fig. 1. I
asked him to put both hands in his coat pockets. I left the room as usual with
Marion and after we were recalled, stayed in the room, acting as umpire.
The other sitters, i.e., Miss Beenham and Mr. Price went behind the curtains.
I did two experiments under these conditions, and both were total failures.
Mr. Collins then remarked that from where he was sitting and wearing
both tea-cosy and hood, he could not clearly see all Marion’s movements and
Marion said he thought that was the reason why he had now begun to fail.
I therefore allowed Mr. Collins to wear only the black stockinette hood
which was quite effective in hiding his face and neck. I further removed him
from the table, and placed his chair at the right-hand edge of the curtain in
the position marked V in Fig. 1. From this position (outside the curtain, of
course), Mr. Collins could see all the tins without having to rotate his trunk.
I asked him to keep his hands in his coat pockets and to remain with as little
movement as possible consistent with his following Marion’s movements
round the room with his eyes.
Under these conditions, we did another four experiments, other circum­
stances remaining the same. Three out of four were total failures and the
remaining one was only correct at second try. It was during the last of these
four experiments, that I made an observation which was subsequently to be
confirmed abundantly by the other sitters. As Marion was standing with his
hand raised above the tin (No. 1) on the settee, he kept moving his hand up
and down and at the same time glancing at the hooded figure of Mr. Collins
seated in the corner. It seemed to me perfectly obvious that Marion was
deliberately watching Mr. Collins for some slight movement. Marion then
opened the tin (on the settee) and next the tin on the table, but both were
empty.
In these six experiments, it looked as if success had been effectively
inhibited. What had happened? I at once began to suspect that in the
“following round” experiments, it was Mr. Collins’ footsteps, approaches,
hesitations, etc., that were the main source of the indicia.
By this time, Mr. Dribbel had arrived and was waiting in the office. I
now called him in and asked him to take Mr. Collins’ place on the chair in
the corner and to put on the black hood. Mr. Collins now joined Mr. Price
and Miss Beenham behind the curtains. Mr. Dribbel sat wearing the black
hood and with hands in coat pockets. The experiment was now continued
as before for four trials. Three of these were total failures and the remaining
one was correct only at second try.
27
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
That is to say, we had now done ten experiments with the agent seated
■and wearing the hood but without a single success first try.
Marion being questioned as to the reasons for this failure in comparison
with the previous long runs of brilliant success, said that it was because he
was tired. I determined to test this explanation. I therefore asked Mr.
Dribbel to follow Marion round the room holding both hands clasped behind
him, and wearing the black hood. I, of course, accompanied Marion outside
the room and afterwards acted as umpire. The other sitters were watching
through the chink-holes of the curtains.
We made four trials and Marion scored three first-try successes and then
a failure. [Chance of three or more successes in four trials = 1 in 62 (nearly)].
This certainly suggests strongly that fatigue was not the true explanation of
Marion’s failure, but that it was due to the suppression of certain indicia
that he had been relying on in the “ following round” experiments.
I should add that from the first mention of the “ black cat” , we used this
object instead of a handkerchief in all subsequent experiments.
In readiness for the next sitting (No. 22) on Friday, 29th June, I had
constructed a light rigid plywood box 50 inches high and of rectangular
cross-section (22 inches by 24 inches). This box was open at one end and in
the bottom was cut a circular hole concentric with the rectangle and of
diameter 9£ inches. The box was to be put over Mr. Collins’ head so that his
neck passed through the circular hole and the very light weight of the box
was supported by his shoulders—the arms, trunk and legs being enclosed in
the body of the box. I had also had constructed a rectangular box of stout
cardboard measuring 11| inches by 12 inches in its horizontal cross section,
and 9f inches high. This box was open at the bottom and was intended as a
rigid hood to enclose completely Mr. Collins’ head. This hood rested on the
horizontal top of the plywood box and in one vertical face (12 inches by
9f inches) of the hood was an oval-shaped hole covered with black stockin­
ette. Mr. Collins' head, of course, made no contact with the interior of the
cardboard hood and when he was wearing the box and hood, movements of
his head relative to the trunk, i.e., noddings or rotatory movements, were
absolutely invisible to the onlooker. Trunk movements from the hips
could, of course, be observed by the rotation of the box and hood. The only
portions of Mr. Collins’ anatomy that were visible were his feet and I| inches
of his legs. Mr. Collins gave the impression of a weird sort of walking robot
and I shall refer to this contrivance as the “robot box” . [See Plate II.] It
was found, however, that a person could walk quite easily in this box and,
owing to its lightness, without much discomfort.
Mr. Price next supervised the construction of a kind of sentry-box on
wheels. This box was 6 feet 7 inches high and closed on three of its vertical
sides and at the top and bottom. The front of the box was left open so that a
man could enter and stand comfortably in it. The open front of the box could
be covered by five rectangular panels of plywood each about 14J inches high
so that by removing a panel, any section of Mr. Collins’ body could be ex­
posed to Marion’s gaze. For instance, if the four lower panels were in position
and the uppermost panel was removed, Mr. Collins’ head and neck alone
would be visible. When all five panels were in position, Mr. Collins would be
totally invisible. He himself, however, was able to watch Marion through the
liny crevice that separated the top panel from the one immediately below it.
28
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
This wheeled box was provided with a pair of handles fixed to its base, so that
a person standing inside the box could be pushed round the room from behind
in such a way that the panelled front of the box was always facing Marion.
The small wheels under the box were so arranged as to permit of the box
being rapidly turned to face any direction and to allow free movement both
backwards and forwards. In order to gain space for these evolutions, the
seance-room was cleared of its central table and tin box No. 2 was placed on
a chair standing not far from the original site. The base of the sentry-box
was five inches above the floor.
We made first use of these contrivances at Sitting No. 22 on Friday,.
29th June. There were present: Mr. Harry Price, Mr. H. S. Collins, Mrs.
A. Peel Goldney, Mr. Alex. L. Dribbel, Mr. S. G. Soal, Marion and Miss
Beenham (taking notes).
In order to give Marion confidence, we started off with a few simple
experiments in which either Mr. Dribbel or Mr. Collins followed Marion
round the room with the follower’s face uncovered. We began with Mr.
Dribbel, the other sitters being behind the curtains. I left the room with
Marion in the usual way, and acted as umpire when Mr. Dribbel followed
Marion round the room. The first experiment was a success at first try and.
the next two experiments were complete failures. I therefore suggested that
Mr. Dribbel should go behind the curtain with the other sitters, and that Mr..
Collins should follow Marion round the room.
The first experiment was a complete failure and the second a success at
first try.
I next did six trials with Mr. Collins following Marion round the room,,
but wearing the tea-cosy over his head. The other conditions were entirely
unchanged. The first two trials were complete failures, but the last four were
all successful at first try. [Chance of getting four or more successes in six
trials = 1 in 115.]
It now seemed that Marion was at last getting into his stride, so I
thought it time to try the robot-box. I left the room with Marion, taking him
as usual away into the office. The robot-box and cardboard hood were placed
upon Mr. Collins and he stood near the door ready to follow as soon as Marion
entered. Mr. Price shook the die and put it in his pocket, the throw being
recorded by Miss Beenham. The small, black cat was put into the corres­
ponding tin and the tins manipulated in the usual way. The sitters, including
Miss Beenham, then went behind the curtains and watched through the
chink-holes. Marion and I were recalled and I acted as umpire, watching the
tins. Mr. Collins, wearing the robot, followed Marion round the room, watch­
ing him through the stockinette, and willing him to open the correct tin.
We did six experiments under these precise conditions. The first was a
complete failure, but the remaining five were all successful at the first try.
The chance of getting five successes or more in six trials is 1in 1505 (nearly).
Marion’s performance must, therefore, be considered a brilliant success.
This makes it more than ever probable that, in the case where Marion is
followed, he gains his principal indicia from the movements of walking,
e.g., hesitation in footsteps, sudden stoppings, turnings, startings, accelera­
tions, retardations, etc. When one considers that the constantly swaying box
is not altogether under the control of the wearer, it does not seem likely that
29
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
much reliable information could be gained about sbght movements of the
trunk. Noddings of the head are, of course, ruled out.
At 1.55 p.m. on the same day, we started experiments with the sentry-
box. I first made a few trials with Mr. Collins standing in the box and wearing
the black stockinette hood—the box being pushed round behind Marion with
all panels removed, so that the whole of Mr. Collins’ body was exposed to
Marion’s observation. I shall discard the first experiment since there was,
on this occasion, no umpire inside the room. In fact, Marion and I left the
room together and when we returned, I pushed Mr. Collins round in the
sentry-box. But, of course, it was impossible for me to watch either Mr.
Collins or Marion and push the box as well.
In the next and following experiments, Mrs. Goldney, Marion and I
went outside the room and sat in the office. Mr. Price shook the die as usual
and the black cat was hidden in the corresponding tin. The tins being
placed in position and the die concealed, the sitters all retired behind the
curtains except Mr. Collins who stood in the sentry-box, with the black hood
over his head. Marion, Mrs. Goldney and I were recalled and Mrs. Goldney
commenced to push the box behind Marion so that Mr. Collins could always
see Marion. I acted as umpire and watched both Marion and Mr. Collins.
The other sitters behind the curtain were also watching proceedings through
the chink-holes.
In this manner we did five trials. The first was a complete failure, but
the last four were successful at first try. The chance of four or more successes
in five trials is 1 in 299.
The times taken by Marion for the above five trials were (i) forty-three
seconds; (ii) one minute two seconds; (iii) one minute thirteen seconds;
(iv) one minute thirty seconds; (v) fifty-two seconds.
Mr. Collins was, of course, a little in shadow as he stood in the sentry-
box and time after time, I saw Marion glance deliberately at the hooded
figure and on at least two occasions, he seemed to study Mr. Collins for about
five seconds. The sitters behind the curtain told me they noticed this also.
The indicia in this case are almost certainly either head movements or
twitchings of the trunk.
I next went on to a series of trials in which the agent stood in the box
with all the panels closed so that no part of his body was visible to Marion.
We were, however, only able to make a start on this series as Marion had
another engagement.
We did only three experiments of this new series before Marion had to
go. All the conditions were exactly the same as in the preceding series with
the one important difference that now all the panels were inserted so that the
box was completely closed. Mr. Collins still wore the hood, but could see
Marion through the tiny crevice between the two top panels. Mrs. Goldney
wheeled him round so that the panels were always facing Marion. The first
experiment was a success at first try, and the other two complete failures.
At Sitting No. 23 on Friday, 6th July, 1.20 p.m., I continued with the
series commenced at the end of the last séance. There were present Mrs.
A. Peel Goldney, Mr. H. S. Collins, Mr. S. G. Soal, Marion, and Miss Ethel
Beenham (taking notes). Mr. Alex. L. Dribbel joined the sitting later. Mr.
Price was unavoidably absent. Before going on with the sentry-box experi­
ments, I thought it wise to try the effect of providing an additional safeguard
30
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
lor the tin boxes. The fear that Marion might accidentally touch a tin was
ever present with both Mr. Price and myself. I had, therefore, purchased of
Messrs. Kettle six larger tins, measuring 6.8 by 3.8 by 2.2 inches deep.
Discarding the lids, I covered each of the smaller tins (properly closed as
usual) with the inverted bottoms of these large tins. There was, therefore, an
air space of .6 inches between the lid of the small tin and the inverted bottom
of the outside tin. If, therefore, Marion accidentally touched the outside
cover, it would not disturb the tin inside and he would be unlikely to gain
any clue.
To test this new arrangement, I went outside the room with Marion
while the other sitters shook the die and hid the black cat. Mrs. Goldney
concealed the die on this occasion. The sitters then went behind the curtains,
with the exception of Mr. Collins. Marion and I were called in and Mr.
Collins, with face uncovered and hands clasped behind his back, followed
Marion round the room. I acted as umpire. We did four experiments in this
manner, and Marion did not touch any of the outside covers. He was
successful all four times at first try. [Chance = 1 in 1296.] This, of course,
satisfied me that Marion had learnt no new trick that enabled him to get his
information from the tins themselves, and showed, further, that the covers
would not seriously disturb his technique.
At this stage, Mr. Dribbel entered the room, having waited in the office
till the last experiment was finished.
The first two experiments made with the sentry-box to-day cannot be
included in the series proper since the wheeler (in this case, Mr. Dribbel) had
remained in the room and knew where the cat was hidden. Mrs. Goldney
and I alone had gone out with Marion and watched proceedings, while Mr.
Dribbel pushed Mr. Collins round with all the panels closed. Both these
experiments, however, were complete failures.
In the first experiment of the series proper Marion, Mrs. Goldney and I
left the room, and passed into the office. Meanwhile, the die was shaken and
the cat put into the corresponding box. The boxes were replaced, given the
usual random push, and the cover placed over each box. Mr. Collms stood
in the sentry-box, wearing no hood but with all the panels closed. The other
sitters (i.e., Miss Beenham and Mr. Dribbel) retired behind the curtains and
Marion, Mrs. Goldney and I were then called in. I wheeled the box behind
Marion, but had not gone far when Marion suddenly stopped and said that
the noise from the box was very disturbing. I therefore pushed the box
containing Mr. Collins into a corner close to the entrance door, a spot from
which Mr. Collms, peering through the crevices, could see all the tins in the
room. Marion then started to go round the room again, watched by Mrs.
Goldney and myself while Mr. Collins willed as hard as he was able for
Marion to open the right tin. Marion opened two tins but both were wrong.
This experiment was now repeated another seven times, the box still remain­
ing in the corner of the door with Mr. Collins inside and all panels closed.
There was only this slight variation, viz., that Mrs. Goldney remained behind
the curtain, and Marion was accompanied by only myself outside the room.
I alone acted as umpire, the other sitters watching through the chink-holes
of the curtains.
In these eight experiments, Marion scored only one success first try, and
three second-try successes.
31
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Mr. Collins now left the box and Mr. Dribbel took his place, with face
uncovered, but with all the panels of the box closed. It was decided that the
box should be placed in the middle of the room and that Mr. Collins should
rotate the box in such a way that Mr. Dribbel should always have Marion in.
view. The box itself, however, remained approximately in the centre of the
room. Mr. Collins, Marion and I left the room, while Mrs. Goldney shook the
die, concealed it, hid the cat and replaced the tins with their covers. She
then retired behind the curtain and called us in. Mr. Collins turned the box
round and round in accordance with Marion’s movements while I acted as
umpire. Mr. Dribbel, his face still uncovered, watched Marion through the
crevice and willed him to open the correct tin.
Out of four experiments performed in this maimer, three were complete
failures and one was correct only at second try.
Had Marion returned to England after the summer vacation, I should
certainly have continued with this series. As it stands, we have fifteen
perfectly controlled experiments in which either Mr. Dribbel or Mr. Collins
watched Marion from inside the box with all panels closed. These yield only
two successes at first try and four at second try, a result which is entirely
consistent with chance. These experiments so far as they go, certainly con­
firm the curtain experiments, and show that even individuals like Mr.
Collins and Mr. Dribbel, who are very successful agents when their bodies are
partially exposed, fail to furnish Marion with any clues when they are com­
pletely hidden inside the sentry-box, and not able to walk. When asked for
an explanation of this failure, Marion said, “ It proves that thought does not
pass through wood!”
Experiments with Head only Exposed.
At Sittings Nos. 23 and 24, I carried out a series of experiments to-
ascertain whether Marion would succeed when every part of the agent s
body was hidden with the exception of his head which, itself, was covered by
the tea-cosy. _ . , ,, _ . ,
Six experiments were done on July 6th (No. 23) with Mr. Dribbel and
twenty-five experiments on July 27th (No. 24) with Mr. Collins.
The conditions on July 6th are as follows. There were present Mrs.
Goldney, Mr. Alex. Dribbel, Mr. H. S. Collins, Miss Beenham, and myself.
Mr. Dribbel was, at 2.19 p.m., already inside the sentry-box, with all the
panels closed. The top panel only was removed and a fight linen tea-cosy
was placed over Mr. Dribbel’s head so that nothing was visible except this
tea-cosy through the fine mesh of which Mr. Dribbel was able to see. Mr.
Collins Marion and I then left the room, and having closed the door, passed
into the office. Mrs. Goldney shook the die and three turned up. The die
was concealed and the black cat was placed in the tin on the floor. Mrs.
Goldney and Miss Beenham then went behind the curtains and called Marion,.
Mr. Collins and myself into the room. The tins were in position with the
larger covering tins over them. Marion went from tin to tin holding his hand
over each for a second or two, while Mr. Collins turned the box round and
round so that Mr. Dribbel was always facing Marion, the box remaining in
the centre of the floor space. Mr. Dribbel willed Marion to open the right
tin. Marion opened the tin on the floor. Correct first try.
32
PLATE II
“ Robot box’’ and hood used in the Marion experiments.
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Six experiments were done on this date under identical conditions, and
Marion scored two successes at first try and one at second try. So far,
therefore, the result was inconclusive.
However, at the next sitting (our penultimate sitting with Marion) we
were able to arrive at positive conclusions with Mr. Collins inside the box.
There were present at Sitting No. 24, on July 27th, Mr. Harry Price,
Mr. Collins, Miss Beenham, Marion and myself. At 1.36J p.m. Mr. Collins
went inside the sentry-box and all the panels were inserted except the top
one which exposed only the head. The thin tea-cosy was placed over Mr.
Collins’ head and Mr. Price and Marion then left the room, and closed the
door. I threw the die and six turned up. Having put the die in my pocket, I
put the black cat into the appropriate tin, replaced all the tins and the larger
covering tins, gave each tin a random push and went behind the curtain with
Miss Beenham who recorded the throw of the die and other details. Mr. Price
and Marion were then recalled. Mr. Price pushed Mr. Collins round in the
box so that he was always facing Marion, the box remaining in the centre of
the room. Marion kept near the gramophone and opened the correct tin at
first try, in fifty-one seconds after entering the room.
In the next and succeeding experiments, the box was placed close to the
curtain near the settee in position marked (W) in Fig. I. From this station­
ary position, Mr. Collins had an unobstructed view of all the tins while Mr.
Price, who still accompanied Marion outside the room, was able, on his re­
entry, to devote his attention to observing both Marion and what was visible
of Mr. Collins. I, myself, did not watch through the chinks of the curtains.
Twenty-four experiments were carried out under these conditions. Including
the first experiment, we thus have a total of twenty-five trials in which
Marion scored ten successes at first try and seven at second try. We have thus
seventeen successes out of twenty-five on a 1 in 3 chance.
The probability of getting seventeen or more successes in twenty-five
trials with p = -|is nearly 1/2409 a highly significant result.
At experiment No. 23 of this series, Mr. Price reported that he had seen
Mr. Collins’ head nod visibly when Marion reached the correct tin, which was
that on the settee on Mr. Collins’ immediate right (No. 1 tin).
The tins with which Marion scored his ten first-try successes were
Nos. 6, 4, 3, 4, 2, 5, 2, 2, 1, 4. It appears, therefore, that Marion was most
frequently successful in the case of tins Nos. 2 and 4. No. 2 was on the chair
quite close to Mr. Collins, while No. 4 was away on the bookcase, but in the
direction in which his head would be normally looking.
There seems little doubt that, in this series, slight head-noddings made
by the agent unwittingly were the clues that led Marion to the right tin. But
the experiment has an important lesson in connection with the telepathic
experiments of Dr. Rhine. No such experiments can be considered of any
crucial importance if the percipient is able to see any part of the agent’s body.
Where the percipient has only a small number (5 or 6) figures from which to
make his choice, the possibility of visual codes elaborated unconsciously when
the same agent and percipient work together over any considerable period of
time is too patent to be overlooked. In my repetition of the Rhine experi­
ments in telepathy, I have used a screen from the very beginning and consider
that experiments conducted without the use of a screen are valueless so far
as the demonstration of telepathy is concerned.
33
c
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
It would have been of interest to have carried out tests with other indi­
viduals to discover if they would succeed as well as Mr. Collins and Mr.
Dribbel in furnishing Marion with unintentional clues to the hidden object.
Unfortunately, Marion’s brief stay in England did not permit me to make any
extensive attempts in this direction. At Sitting No. 24, however, I, myself,
acted as agent in seven trials. There were present Mr. Ellic Howe, Mr. H. S.
Collins, Mr. and Mrs. Goldney, Mr. Price, Miss Beenham, and myself. At
1.17, Marion and Mrs. Goldney left the room. I threw the die and six turned
up. The black cat mascot was put into the appropriate tin, the other tins
being in their usual places. The outer covers were placed over the tins and
each tin was given a random push. The sitters, with the exception of myself,
then retired behind the curtains and called for Mrs. Goldney and Marion to
re-enter the room. I proceeded to follow Marion round the room, maintaining
between us a distance of about a yard. Clasping my hands behind my back, I
let my muscles relax, keeping them well under control. Mrs. Goldney acted
as umpire. Marion passed from tin to tin, holding his hand above each in
turn. He opened the tin on the floor (3) and then the tin on the chair (1),
neither being correct.
Seven experiments were made under these conditions, but Marion did
not score a single success at first try and only one at second try.
Judging from this short series, it does not look as though I should make a
good agent. I suppose the reason is that I am perpetually on my guard,
calmly in control of my muscular reactions and indifferent as to whether
Marion succeeds or not. It is probably persons of the emotif type who are
anxious to see Marion succeed who unconsciously give away clues. Such
persons are to be found in any considerable audience and they serve as living
sign-posts to warn him when he is approaching his objective or receding
from it.
It seems probable also, that Marion will fail under ordinary Series A
conditions in which the agents are seated round the table, if the agents are
instructed to keep their gaze steadily fixed on some object placed in the
centre of the table. At Sittings 12 and 13,1 did six experiments (not counted
in Series A) in which we all fixed our gaze on a glass ash tray placed in the
centre of the table for the whole time during which Marion perambulated the
room. Marion who had been fairly successful under ordinary Series A con­
ditions, at both sittings, failed in the six trials to score a single success at
first try and obtained only one at second try. The series is too small to fur­
nish any reliable conclusions, but it indicates that Marion probably derives
his chief indicia from head movements and changes in facial expression when
the agents are seated, whereas the “solo” experiments certainly suggest that
when the agent follows Marion, his chief clues are from footsteps.
34
SECTION I.
APPENDIX A
As I thought it would be interesting to see how far other persons would
be able to emulate Marion’s performance and succeed in reading indicia
when followed round the room by an agent, I arranged for an experiment on
3rd August, 1934. There were present, Mrs. A. Peel Goldney, Miss Rosemary
Goldney, Mr. Harry Price, Mr. Ellic Howe, Mr. H. S. Collins, Mr. Alex. L.
Dribbel and myself. Marion was absent.
I chose what seemed to be the easiest and most favourable conditions in
which the seeker was followed by a good agent such as Mr. Dribbel or Mr.
Collins, while the rest of the sitters were seated round Table A, Mr. Price and
I occupying our usual positions. The seeker had, therefore, the opportunity
of getting indicia not only from the following agent, but also from the persons
seated round the table.
Mrs. Goldney first played the rôle of Marion, being followed round the
room by Mr. Dribbel.
At 3.2 p.m. Mrs. Goldney left the room, accompanied by Mr. Price.
The die was thrown and the black cat placed inside tin No. 2 on the table.
The die was then concealed and the six tins, with their lids on, were placed
in the usual positions, the six covering tins being placed over them. A random
push was given to each tin, and I resumed my seat, Mr. Dribbel standing near
the door ready to follow Mrs. Goldney when she entered. Mr. Price and Mrs.
Goldney were now recalled. With both hands clasped behind his back, Mr.
Dribbel followed Mrs. Goldney at a distance of about a yard. Mrs. Goldney
kept glancing round at Mr. DribbeJ as she passed from tin to tin. Within
two minutes she opened first No. 3, the tin on the floor, and next No. 2, the
tin on the table which contained the mascot. Correct at second try. Mrs.
Goldney did, in all, twelve experiments and during the last four she faced
Mr. Dribbel, scanning his features the whole time as she worked her way
round the room.
In the twelve experiments, Mrs. Goldney did not score a single success
at first try, but obtained five successes at second try. The chance of getting
no successes at first try in twelve trials is [f] 1
2= j (nearly). In the last four
of these experiments, Mrs. Goldney scored two successes at second try. Mrs.
Goldney, therefore, has clearly failed to qualify as Marion’s understudy, her
close scrutiny of Mr. Dribbel’s countenance being of no avail.
We next experimented with Mr. Dribbel, who rather fancied himself as
"Marion” . Mr. Collins followed him round the room, hands clasped behind
back and willing him silently to open the right tin. The other conditions were
the same. Strange to say, in twelve trials, Mr. Dribbel, like Mrs. Goldney,
did not score a single success at first try and only two successes at second try.
Therefore, he likewise fails to qualify.
The combined result of the twenty-four experiments is rather remarkable
for not a single success was scored at first try. The chance of this happening is
35
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
nearly 1 in 80 (i.e., 1/80). Many psychologists would regard this result as
being significant. If it is accepted as significant, it would mean that both the
agents succeeded in warning-off the seekers from the correct tin. That is,
Mrs. Goldney and Mr. Dribbel were bluffed and thrown off the scent. The
experiment, I think, was well worth doing. If ordinary persons fail to find the
mascot under the very easiest conditions, it clearly enhances the prestige of
Marion, who succeeded five times running with nothing to guide him but a
pair of walking feet—all that was visible of the agent.
It is not surprising that the percipients should have failed in emulating
Marion’s performance, as probably years of unremitting practice are required
for the correct interpretation of indicia as well as a natural flair for this kind
of thing. I have sometimes been asked whether Marion is aware of the method
he employs for finding hidden objects and whether he really believes that he
succeeds by telepathy. The answer probably is that after years of practice,
the reading of indicia has become a subconscious mental process which Marion
is entirely unable to analyse. Before leaving England, however, Marion con­
fessed to Mrs. Goldney and myself that our experiments had “taught him a
great deal about the way in which his faculty works” but beyond this, he
would not commit himself. I think it very probable that the sentry-box
experiments, and the curtain experiments have given Marion an insight into
his own mental processes which he did not possess before. When he found it
necessary to watch the hooded figure of Mr. Collins in the shadow of the
sentry-box, I think Marion must have realised what indicia he was looking
for.
In conclusion, I must emphasise that in our investigation of Marion, we
are not concerned with the establishment of minute trace of telepathic or
clairvoyant faculty such as would necessitate the performance of thousands
of tests. Our primary object has been to throw a little light on Marion’s
stage performances. If a performer cannot get at least 45 to 50 per cent of
success, whatever the odds are against him, he is not going to impress his
audiences. When, therefore, we find that, under certain conditions, Marion
can obtain results that could easily be attributed to chance in a short series
of fifteen to twenty tests, we may be reasonably sure that the conditions
prohibit the working of his faculty.
36
SECTION II.
THE RECOGNITION OF PLAYING CARDS.
I
N view of the numerous attempts that have been made to demonstrate
telepathy and clairvoyance by the use of playing cards, the problem of
their identification by normal means is of first-rate importance in psychical
research. In a large proportion of the recent experiments carried out by
Dr. J. B. Rhine of Duke University, the visual recognition of small irregu­
larities on the backs of the cards in conjunction with the memorisation of
sequences which are left undisturbed by inefficient shuffling of the pack,
suggests itself as a possible source of error. The experiments described in the
first Jephson report1were probably vitiated by precisely the same kinds of
error. As Marion displayed great aptitude for recognising a playing card that
he had once touched when this card was mixed with several other cards of
similar make and pattern, I thought it well worth while investigating the
methods which he employed. The experiments which I am about to describe
were originally suggested by me and formed no part of Marion’s ordinary
programme. Marion, indeed, told us that he had never tried this sort of
thing before in his life and if we accept this statement, it will be admitted
that he showed great versatility in mastering so quickly a new technique.
It was at our first sitting on January 17th, 1934, that I asked Marion to
try a few experiments with playing cards. At first, he demurred, saying that
he had always avoided cards because the audience always suspected a mere
conjuring trick. I soon reassured Marion by telling him that there could be
no possibility of conjuring in the experiments which I proposed he should
try. I opened a new pack of playing cards which I had bought that afternoon.
The cards were of the ordinary “linen-grained” type and on the back were the
head and shoulders of a woman, contained inside a gilt oval. Surrounding the
oval was a red border with a mesh of gilt lines. At 3.30 p.m. I handed Marion
the Queen of Diamonds which he held in his hands for a few seconds. He
then handed me the card and left the room, the door being closed. I chose
five other cards at random from the pack, added the card touched by Marion
and, holding the six cards under the table, shuffled them and then slid them
one by one on to the table, backs upward so that the six cards were laid
out separately on the table. Marion was recalled to the room and seated
himself on my left so that I could overlook his every movement. The other
sitters were also watching carefully. Marion tapped the back of each card in
turn with his first and second fingers, sometimes pushing a card aside. He
then turned up a card, and it was the Queen of Diamonds. The whole experi­
ment took a minute from the instant when Marion was handed the card to
the instant when he turned up the right card.
The experiment was then repeated, using this time the Ace of Spades.
Marion laid the card on the table and stroked and tapped its back once or
1 Ina Jephson: Evidence of Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing. . . . Proc. S.P.R., 1928,
vol. xxxviii, pp. 223-271.
37
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
twice and left the room. The card was mixed with five others, and six cards
shuffled as before, the cards being slid one by one on to the table. As before,
Marion tapped and stroked the backs of the cards one by one, and then
pushed three aside. This time, however, he turned up a card from the three
which he had pushed aside. It was not the Ace of Spades. Neither was the
next card and it was only at the third attempt that he turned up the right
card.
We then repeated the experiment, using this time the Jack of Diamonds
and mixing it with six other cards. Marion picked out the right card first
try in 1^ minutes.
We then used the Three of Diamonds with five other cards, and Marion
was successful first try in less than a minute. Again we did the same experi­
ment, using the Queen of Clubs and seven other cards. Marion was successful
at first try, within a minute.
I then handed Marion the Six of Hearts which he held for a second or
two. When he had left the room, I shuffled this card with thirty-three other
cards and spread the cards upon the table so that they were all separate,
backs upward. On being recalled to the room, Marion sat on my left and
tapped and stroked the back of every card in turn. He then pushed six to
one side for final inspection. He tapped and stroked the backs of each of these
six and then turned up a card which was the Six of Hearts. The time taken
was four minutes.
At our second sitting on 18th January, we continued this type of experi­
ment. The only innovation was that the room was darkened during the
shuffling of the cards on the table. This was in order to ensure that no sitter,
including myself, knew the position on the table of the chosen card. The cards
employed on this occasion were a perfectly new pack of identical design with
those used at the previous sitting. The audience, on this occasion, was a
large one, and I sat with Marion at a small table facing the audience. At the
close of this sitting, it was obvious that Marion was definitely recognising the
cards and not merely relying upon chance. It would, however, be tedious to
transcribe here Miss Beenham’s very full notes of Marion’s manipulations for
each individual experiment of this series which I shall call Series (i).
After Sitting No. 2, Miss Beenham sat at the table in a position so that
she could note accurately every movement made by Marion and myself. A
certain number of details, however, call for mention. After Sitting No. 2,
the card handed to Marion to “sense” was always a card of red suit and it was
shuffled with a number of cards all of black suit. Marion claimed that he
was able to recognise cards of red suit more easily than those of black suit.
At Sitting No. 3 I used a pack of cards of new design. The cards were of the
usual size of “linen-grain” and on the backs was a minute regular pattern
in black and white. The card had a white "linen grain” border of 5 mm. at
each side and a similar border of 6 mm. at the top and bottom. After Sitting
No. 3 I used cards identical in every respect with those just described, with
the exception that the regular pattern on the back was in red instead of in
black. This change was made at Marion’s request. This red pattern card was
used in all experiments after Sitting No. 3, but new packs were brought to
every sitting. Marion’s procedure was generally as follows. He would lay
the card selected by me face downwards on the table and tap it at different
points with one or two fingers, sometimes turning it round on the table. He
38
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
would spend, perhaps, fifteen or thirty seconds over this. He then left the
room. I would pick up the card and mix it with five, six, seven, or more
similar cards from the same pack, but of black suit. This hand of cards I
would hold under the table and thoroughly shuffle them out of sight of the
other sitters and myself. I then collected the cards into a small pack, still
holding them out of sight under the table. The fights were then turned out,
the dark shutter of the window having been previously drawn. I spread the
cards separately on the table in the dark, face downwards, and gave them
another shuffle on the table. The fights were then turned on and Marion was
recalled to the room. He took the chair on my left and began to draw the
cards towards him one by one and tap each card at several points, sometimes
turning the card round without, of course, lifting it. After he had tapped each
card, he would push two or three aside and then proceed to tap each of the
selected cards. Then he would push aside a card from, say, the three chosen,
leaving only two. He would concentrate on these two, tapping each in turn
and when he had made up his mind, he would turn up one of the cards as his
final choice. If the card turned up was wrong, he would usually turn up the
other as a second try. I should mention that this tapping of the back of the
card was extremely gentle and he appeared to be examining the contact
which the different parts of the card made with the wood of the bare table.
We never used a cloth on the table. It will be seen from Table (1) that I
handed Marion a different red card every time and I also used a different set
of black-suited cards to mix with it for each experiment. In fact, I found it
convenient to use three or four identical packs of new cards at the same sitting.
I would, before the sitting started, sort out the red suits into one pile and the
black suits into a second pile. This made it easy for me to ensure that I was
using different sets of black cards for each experiment. Entirely new packs
were used for each sitting.
A few minor variations in the above procedure must be mentioned and a
reference to Table (1) will show the sittings at which they occurred. For
instance, in certain experiments the fights were not turned out during the
shuffling, but the cards were merely shuffled under the table. On another
occasion, the cards were shuffled behind an opaque curtain. In this series, it
was, of course, quite unnecessary for Marion to be accompanied outside the
room, but when he was so accompanied, the fact is noted. In certain experi­
ments, Marion remained in the room while the cards were shuffled under the
table. On such occasions, the pile was raised by me carefully to the level of
the table and the cards were slid on to the table one by one, faces downwards.
This method eliminated the possibility of Marion catching any glimpse of the
face of a card and it has always been adopted by me in card experiments.
39
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Series (i). Table (1)
No. of Card given Total No. Time Conditions of
Sitting to Marion of Cards Results Taken Experiment
1 Q D 6 S 1 m. [U L] [N]
1 s 6 F 3 m. ditto.
J D 7 S 1£ m. ditto.
3 D 6 S i m. ditto.
Q c 8 s 1 m. ditto.
6 H 34 s 4 m. ditto.
2 J D 6 F 1 m. [A L ] [N]
6 D 6 F i£ m- ditto.
K H 6 F 1 m. ditto.
4 H 7 S 1 m. ditto.
J c 7 S 1 m. [A L ] [D]
J D 33 S 4 m. ditto.
3 ? 7 F 10 m. [U L] [N]
i D 7 S 5 m. ditto.
J D 7 S H m. [U L] [D]
1 H 30 F ---- ditto.
9 H 11 S 4 m. ditto.
10 D 6 S 4/3 m. [U L] [N]
4 5 D 6 S 4 m. [U L] [D]
1 H 7 F — ditto.
5 H 8 S 4* m. [U L] [N]
4 H 6 S l| m. ditto.
K H 33 F 4 m. [U L] [D]
2 H 31 F — [A L] [N]
5 1 H 7 F l i m. [A L] [N]
J H 6 F 2 m. [U L] [N]
6 H 6 S 1 m. [A L ] [N]
K H 6 F 2 i m. ditto.
4 D 6 S 67/60 m. ditto.
3 H 7 S 28/60 m. [U L] [N]
7 K D 6 S 25/60 m. [U L] [N]
K H 6 S 37/60 m. [U L] [N]
8 6 H 6 S 44/60 m. [R T ] [N]
J 6 S 115/60 m. ditto.
10 D 6 S 35/60 m. ditto.
9 J D 6 S 1 m. [R X ] TN]
« H 6 S 43 /60 m. [R T ] [N]
16 A “ red” card 6 s — [R T ] [B]
25 K H 6 s —
[R A ]
Q » 6 s — ditto.
9 D 6 F — ditto.
6 D 6 S — ditto.
5 D 6 S — ditto.
2 D 6 S — ditto.
1 D 6 S — ditto.
K H 6 S — ditto.
Q H 6 s — ditto.
1 H 6 F — ditto.
Same 1 H 6 S — ditto.
40
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Explanations of last column:
[U L] = Marion leaves room unaccompanied.
[A L] = Marion leaves room accompanied.
[R T] = Marion remains in room, seated at table and cards are shuffled out of sight,
under table.
S = Correct card turned up at first try.
F = Wrong card turned up at first try.
[D] = Room in darkness while cards are being shuffled.
[N] = Cards shuffled under table, but lights not turned out.
[B] = A bend was given to the pack of six cards after shuffling, there being no
separate bending of cards.
[R A] = This Sitting (No. 25) was held in Marion’s room at the Hyde Park Hotel.
The cards were mixed and the five black cards added in an alcove situated in a distant
part of the room where all my movements were invisible to Marion. For fuller details,
see page 43.
It will be borne in mind that, in all the above experiments, Marion was
allowed to hold and to tap with his fingers the card handed to him by me.
We will now statistically summarise the above series in Table II.
Se r ie s (i). T a b le (II).
No. of
Experiments
Chance
Factor
No. of
Successes (S )
Expected
Numbers
32 1 in 6 24 5.3
9 1 in 7 6 1.3
2 1 in 8 2 —
1 1 in 11 1 —
1 1 in 30 0 —
1 1 in 31 0 —
2 1 in 33 1 —
1 1 in 34 1 —
No one who examines this table can possibly doubt that the successes are
due to something more than chance coincidence. If we merely take the
thirty-two experiments in which the chance of success was one-sixth, the
odds against getting as many as twenty-four successes are simply enormous.
[Chance = 5.51 x 10~13.]
The first explanation that naturally suggests itself is that Marion
recognises the cards by noting and memorising small specks upon the borders,
slight irregularities in the linen grain, etc. That such visual recognition is
actually possible, with perfectly new cards, there is no doubt whatever.
Such recognition demands only two things (a) a good eyesight, and (b) a good
visual memory. In fact, I will state without hesitation, that the backs of no
two cards chosen from a perfectly new pack of ordinary playing cards are
exactly alike. There is always some slight speck or irregularity that can be
detected by a good normal eyesight and which serves to distinguish one card
from several others with which it may be shuffled. I have, myself, succeeded
repeatedly in picking out a card that has been shuffled with several others
chosen by another experimenter from a perfectly new pack. I found it
necessary merely to study the back of the card given me for about half a
minute or so.
Nevertheless, in Marion’s case, there were indications that the recog­
nition was tactual rather than visual. The constant tapping of the card as it
41
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
lay on the table suggested that Marion was really examining the contact
which the different parts of the card made with the wooden surface of the
table. At the third sitting, there were present three physiologists, Dr. J. A.
Hewitt, Professor Harris, and Professor Hartridge, F.R.S., who watched
Marion perform this trick with the cards. After the sitting, Professor Harris
told me that he thought Marion possessed a touch sensitive enough to recog­
nise the card by noting small differences in flexibility at different points of
the surface. He also suggested that Marion might have an ear sensitive
enough to detect differences in the pitch of the note emitted when the cards
were tapped^ on the table. _ The latter suggestion may seem a little far­
fetched, but it seemed certainly worth while making experiments to exclude
visual recognition.
The tapping of the cards on the table is constantly noted in Miss Been-
ham’s records. Thus Sitting 8, Series (i), Experiment 2 [RT] [N], the record
reads:
9.33 p.m. The Jack of Diamonds is given to Marion who taps it with
the tips of his fingers and then passes it to Mr. Soal. Mr. Soal shuffles this
card, with five black cards under the table and all the while he is doing this,
Marion is rubbing the fingers of his hand together, as though keeping the
feeling in them. The cards are then put in front of him. Marion strokes and
taps each card in turn and then pushes it aside. He is evidently not satisfied,
as he goes through the cards again and turns up one. It is the Jack of
Diamonds. Time one minute fifty-five seconds (from starting to tap the
cards).”
Marion’s own explanation is that he retains a feeling in his fingers which
enables him to recognise the card when he touches it again.
My first task was to satisfy myself and the other sitters that what Marion
recognised was the actual card which he had previously touched and not the
value on the face of the card. In order to do this, I provided myself, unknown
to Marion, with a duplicate pack of cards, identical in make, design and
colour, with the pack that I was using. I began at Sitting No. 4 with three
experiments of Series (i), of which two were successful, the total number of
cards used being six, seven, eight, respectively (see page 40). I then began to
modify the experiment. At 8.57 p.m., I gave Marion the Jack of Hearts,
which he held and tapped. He then left the room. I now took the sitters
into my confidence and picked up the Jack of Hearts from the duplicate
pack, concealing the card which Marion had touched. Within full view of the
sitters, I added five other black-suited cards and then when the lights had
been turned out, I shuffled the six cards and spread them out on the table,
backs upward. Marion was then recalled, but was kept in ignorance of what
had been done. Marion failed to turn up the Jack of Hearts. I did five
experiments of this kind consecutively, and Marion obtained only one
success. A different “red” card was used in each experiment. After this run
of failure, I prophesied to Marion that next time he was going to succeed. I
gave him the Four of Hearts to touch, but this time I did not substitute the
duplicate card. Marion succeeded first try. At sitting 25 on 28th July, I
continued with this experiment, substituting unknown to Marion, a duplicate
card., the total number of cards used in each trial being six. On this occasion,
Marion did not succeed once in turning up the correct card in the ten trials
that we made. We have, in all, therefore, fifteen experiments with only one
42
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
success which, of course, is what chance might easily produce. [Expected
number =2.5.] But far more convincing than the mere statistics were
Marion’s own remarks and the particular way in which we conducted the
experiments at Sitting No. 25. This sitting which was devoted ^
almost
entirely to confirming the results of Sitting No. 4 was held in Marion’s room
at the Hyde Park Hotel at 11 a.m. on 28th July, 1934. There were present,
Mrs. Peel Goldney who took the notes, Miss Ethel Beenham, Mr. H. S.
Collins, Marion, and myself. On the evening previous to the sitting, I had
purchased five new packs of playing-cards, all identical with those used in
the preceding sittings [i.e., backs with small pattern in red and white and the
usual white borders— “linen grain” .] Before coming to the sitting, I opened
the packs and thoroughly flexed each separate card, both transversely and
longitudinally and also at the four comers so that the cards would not make
quite the same contact with the table as new ones. The reason for this
thorough flexing (i.e., bending backwards and forwards) of the individual
cards lay in the fact that I had learnt in the meantime that when a perfectly
new card is held in the hand for a few seconds, it will often assume a slight
transverse convexity which enables it to be detected when it is mixed with
other new cards that have been more lightly fingered. That is to say, a much
fingered new card will often appear to be very slightly arched in the centre
when laid on the table with other new cards. In order to avoid this obvious
visual clue, I therefore well flexed every one of the 260 cards. For convenience
I then put all the “black” suits together in envelopes and the red cards I
arranged in order with the exception of twenty, which I required for another
experiment. The envelopes containing the cards, I put in my suitcase,
which rested on a table behind a projection of the wall which completely hid
my movements from Marion who sat several yards away at a wooden table
(hard top) covered with tight American cloth. Mr. Collins and Mrs. Goldney
also sat at this table, but Miss Beenham sat apart in such a position that my
movements at the suitcase were, to some extent, visible tocher. In order not
to discourage Marion too much, I decided to alternate Series (i) experiments
with experiments in which, unknown to Marion, a duplicate card was sub­
stituted for the one which he had touched. I arranged with Mrs. Goldney to
give a secret signal when the duplicate card was substituted and she marked
such experiments in her notes by an S and the ordinary Series (i) experiments
by an O. Mrs. Goldney, besides recording the details and result of each
experiment, noted any interesting remarks that Marion made. All the
shuffling of the cards, etc., was done behind the projection of the wall and
Miss Beenham generally knew when I had added a duplicate card. Mr.
Collins knew in a general way what I was trying to do, but I doubt if he was
always aware whether I was doing an S or an 0 experiment. Needless to say,
Mrs. Goldney recorded the S or 0 in each case before the experiment com­
menced. In each case the “red” card was shuffled with five cards of black
suit and a different set of five black cards was used for each experiment, no
black card being ever used twice except in cases explicitly mentioned below.
The results, with Marion’s remarks, are given in Table III.
43
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
T a b le III.
Nature of
Experiment
Card
Chosen
1 O K H
2 O Q D
3 S J D
4 S 10 D
5 O 9 D
6 S 8 D
7 S 7 D
8 O 6 D
9 0 5 D
10 s 3 D
11 s 2 D
12 O The same 2 D used
in No. 11 is mixed
with the same five
black cards
13 S 1 D
14 O The same 1 D used
in No. 13 is mixed
with the same five
black cards
15 S K H
(not the same as in
No. 1
16 0 The same K H as
in No. 15 mixed
with five different
black cards
17 S Q H
18 O The same Q H as
in No. 17 mixed
with the same five
black cards
19 S 1 H
20 O The same 1 H as
in 19, mixed with
the same five black
cards
21 O The same 1 H as
in 19 and 20 mixed
with the same five
black cards
Result
Correct, first try
Correct, first try
Two tries, both wrong
Two tries, both wrong
Correct, second try
Two tries, both wrong
Two tries, both wrong
Correct, first try
Correct, first try
Two tries, both wrong
Two tries, both wrong
Correct, first try
Two tries, both wrong
Correct, first try
Two tries, both wrong
Correct, first try
One try only, wrong
Correct, first try
One try only, wrong
Experiment miscarries
Correct, first try
Marion
Remarks
At first wrong choice,
Marion remarks, "I am
sure.”
"N ot quite sure.”
"Quite sure. Sure as the
stab of a pin.”
"Quite sure.”
"N o feeling; this is
guessing.”
While manipulating,
Marion remarks: "This
is funny; it feels quite
different this time, al­
though its the same
card. This time, I'm
absolutely sure."
“ So easy! I’m so sure!
Just as if it wasn’t the
same card when I’m
wrong, and it is the
same when I'm right.”
“ Absolutely no feeling.
Just as if the card
wasn’t there.”
"Absolutely sure.”
"I am sure the card is
not there.”
Aii inspection of the above table shows that in the ten “ 0 ” experiments
(omitting No. 20 which miscarried, owing to cards being turned up by acci­
dent) Marion obtains nine successes first try and one at second try, while in
the ten “ S” experiments, he does not obtain a single success either at first or
44
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
second try. When the experiment is an “ S” , he frequently either gets no
feeling, or gets a feeling that the original card is not there. In the "O "
experiments, he usually feels sure. It seems clear, therefore, that the figure
on theface of the card plays no part in Marion’s recognition.
Is the recognition tactual or visual?
The next question we have to decide is whether the recognition is visual
or tactual or partakes of both modes.
We first tried to discover if it were possible for Marion to recognise a
card whose back he had never seen, using touch alone. To this end we carried
out ten experiments at Sitting 8 on February 8th, 1934. The experiments
were watched by Mrs. Richards, Miss D. Paul, Mr. J. Van Lier and Lord
Sands. Miss Beenham also watched and took the notes. We commenced
at 9.37 p.m.
I had on Table B a pile of black cards and a pile of red cards formed by
amalgamating two precisely similar packs which had been bought on the
afternoon of the experiment. All the cards were face upwards. I walked to
this table and turning my back to the audience, sitting round the large table,
I lifted off the five top cards of the black pile and placed face upwards
on top of the five black cards, the top card of the red pile, i.e., the Four of
Diamonds, all six cards remaining face upwards. Holding the pile of six
cards horizontal and face upwards, I carried it to the large centre table and
slid it on the table. The fights were then switched off and in total darkness,
I handed the top card, i.e., Four of Diamonds to Marion. Marion held the card
in his hand for a few seconds and then passed it back to me in the dark. Still
in darkness, I shuffled the Four of Diamonds with the five black cards, holding
the cards under the table while doing so. I next gave the pile of six cards a
longitudinal flex and a transverse flex. This was intended to eliminate any
special bend that had been given to the Four of Diamonds, while Marion had
held it, or to give to the other five cards a similar bend. I then held the pile
face downwards at the level of the table and close to the edge and asked for
the light to be switched on. Immediately the light was on, I slid off the top
card on to the table, pushing it towards Marion, face downwards, of course.
Marion tapped the back with his finger-tips and pushed it aside. I then slid
the next card on to the table towards Marion who tapped it gently in a
similar manner and I proceeded in this fashion till all six cards were on the
table. Marion then tapped each card again and pushed two aside. He
turned up these two cards one after the other, but both were black cards.
We then proceeded to repeat the experiment, using the Six of Hearts, which
was now the top card of the red pile, and the top five cards from the black
pile. Marion again failed. The next eight experiments conducted in an identi­
cal manner were, however, all successful at first try. The chance of getting
eight or more successes in ten trials is 1 in 51,417, which is highly significant.
The loophole in this experiment was the possibility that the casual
flexing of the pack of six cards in the dark was not sufficient to eliminate the
flex which Marion might have given the red card when he held it. This card
might therefore stand out from the others a little when laid upon the table
and so be recognised visually. I found later that the only safe way to eradi­
cate a transverse flex was to bend and rebend the cards separately, both
lengthwise and crosswise and also at the four corners spending, perhaps,
three-quarters of a minute over each card. Another possibility was that
45
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Marion had the opportunity to mark the back of the card in the dark, or to
nick its edge, or to wet it. I did, as a matter of fact, examine with a magni­
fying glass the ten cards held by Marion, but could find no signs of nicking or
marking. I should state here that Mr. Price and I together examined a
good many of the cards which had passed through Marion’s hands and we
were never able to find any suspicious marks or nicks and I have examined
altogether a score or more such cards and failed to find evidence that they
had been either marked or nicked. The experiment, however, was clearly
unsatisfactory.
Marion had insisted that it was absolutely necessary for him to be able
to bring his fingers into contact with the actual card in the first instance if he
was to be successful.
Another series was carried out [Series (iii)] which constitutes an in­
teresting variation of the series which we have just described [Series (ii)].
The procedure was identical in every detail with the preceding, up to the
point when the fight was switched on. But now Marion was not allowed to
touch any of the cards as they were slid on to the table. He merely waved
his fingers in the air over each card and indicated whether we were to move
this card to the right or the left. He was presently left, say, with two cards
on the left and four on the right. He then waggled his fingers over the two
cards on the left, and indicated by a wave of the hand that a particular one
of these was to join the group on the right. Marion would then ask for the
remaining card to be turned up as his final choice. Throughout, Marion
never touched a card from the moment he handed me back the card in the
dark, but merely directed how the cards were to be moved.
I will quote the record of an actual experiment. Sitting No. 7, February
7th. 3.51 p.m. “ The Ace of Hearts is taken and placed face up on five other
black cards. The fights are turned out. Mr. Soal hands Marion the red card.
Marion holds it for a second or so and then returns it to Mr. Soal, who holds
the six cards under the table. The lights are put on. Mr. Soal shuffles the six
cards under the table and, having bent the pack once or twice, then slides
them one by one, face downwards, in front of Marion. Marion holds his hand
over each one and then waves them either to right or left (that is, makes a
sweeping motion with his hand). The first, third, fourth and sixth cards are
put on the left. The second and fifth cards are pushed before Marion again
who says that this time he is absolutely certain and indicates which card is
to be turned up. The Ace of Hearts is turned up first time. [Time: thirty
seconds.]” In this series a different red card was used for each experiment
and a different set of five black cards. In all twenty-one experiments were
performed under similar conditions. In each experiment in this series, a
casual bend or flex was given to the pile of six cards before it was slid upon
the table, but there was no separate bending of the individual cards. The
results are given in Table IV.
T a b le IV. Se rie s (iii).
No. of
Sitting
No. of
Trials
No. of Successes
(First Try)
5 9 5
7 7 4
15 2 2
16 3 0
T o t a l s 21 11
46
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
The chance of getting eleven or more successes in twenty-one trials is 1 in
5340 (nearly).
This is probably Marion’s prettiest trick with the cards and I must
confess that it puzzled me for a week or two. I thought at first that Marion
must somehow be able to correlate the tactual picture of the contact which
the card made with the palm of his hand in the dark, with the visual picture
of the contact which the card made with the surface of the table. It was not
until I had undertaken Series (iv) with the windowed-envelopes that it
began to dawn upon me that the real explanation was probably absurdly
simple, viz., that the casual bending of the pack of six cards under the table
was insufficient either to destroy the flex imparted to the red card by Marion
or to give a permanent flex to the five black cards, which, having been
merely lifted, had not received any flexural set so that when the six cards
were slid on the table, the red card often appeared to have a just noticeable
convexity which caused it to stand out a little from the others. In order that
the red card should be indistinguishable from the others, it would be necessary
to give all six cards a thorough re-bending one by one.
In order to obviate the possibility of Marion marking the cards in the
dark, Mr. Price brought to Sitting No. 7 some small envelopes, size 95 mm.
by 60 mm., into which an ordinary playing-card would just about fit. The
envelopes were provided with flaps that could be gummed down and in the
face of the envelope was cut out a rectangular window about 78 mm. long
and 50 mm. wide, the edges of the rectangle being parallel to those of the
envelope. When the flap was stuck down, this allowed a slight play of the
card within the envelope, but the window was too small for the edges of the
card to be brought into view. I had, as usual, two piles of black and red
cards, all resting face upwards on Table B. The cards were from new packs
which I had bought on the preceding day. Standing with my back to Marion
and the sitters, I lifted off the top red card which was the Nine of Hearts and
keeping it face upwards, slid it horizontally into one of the envelopes so that
the face of the card alone could be seen through the window, the four edges
and back being completely hidden. I then gummed down the flap and handed
the envelope to Marion who fingered it and seemed to be weighing it in his
hand. Every movement of Marion was watched by Mr. Harry Price, Mrs. A.
Peel Goldney, Mr. H. S. Collins, Mr. Alex. L. Dribbel, Mr. J. Van Lier, Miss
Beenham and myself, I stood on Marion’s right hand, watching closely.
There is nothing of the conjurer about Marion and all his movements are
very slow and can be followed with the greatest ease. I can testify that
Marion did not either wet the card or nick the edge of the envelope or scratch,
or mark the face, or the back of the envelope. The envelope was, in an ordin­
ary sense, opaque. The only thing that Marion might have done was to
give the card a slight flex through the mere fact of holding it in his hand. At
the end of perhaps fifteen seconds Marion handed me back the envelope. I
carried it away to Table B and standing with my back to Marion and the
audience, and holding the card close to me, I tore open the envelope holding
the card face upwards. I then lifted off the top five from the black pile and
laid the red card face upwards on top. I then inverted the pile and shuffled
the six cards, always keeping them face downwards. I next bent the pack a
few times backwards and forwards, both transversely and longitudinally,
but I did not bend the cards separately. Still holding the pile face downwards
47
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
on the palm of my left hand, I lowered them to the level of the sitters’ table
and slid the top card on to the table in front of Marion. Marion waved his
hand above it without touching it and then waved for it to be pushed to the
right side. I then slid the next top card on to the table and it was waved to
the left. The third was put to the left, the fourth to the left, the fifth to the
right and the sixth to the right. The three cards on the right were pushed in
front of Marion who waved his hand over them. One was put aside (at Ma­
rion’s request), and the remaining two were turned up, one after the other as a
first and second choice. Both, however, were black cards. The procedure was
then repeated, using the next top red card which was the King of Diamonds,
and a fresh set of five black cards [4.0 p.m.].
Fifteen such experiments were done at Sitting No. 7, and in the last six,
the flap of the envelope was turned down but not stuck, as we were using the
same envelopes over again, having run short of envelopes.
The series was continued at Sitting No. 9, when eleven more experiments
were done. In all these experiments, the flap was stuck down. The only
variation in procedure was that instead of shuffling the six cards with my
back turned at Table B, I carried the pile face upwards to the sitters’ table,
sat down there and shuffled the cards out of sight under the table, withdraw­
ing them to the table level, backs upwards and sliding them one by one on
to the table, as before. As before, the pile was bent backwards and forwards
two or three times under the table. The times taken by Marion from the
instant when the first card was slid on the table to the instant when a final
choice was made were for ten of the eleven experiments, thirty-five seconds,
nineteen seconds, thirty-five seconds, twenty seconds, twenty seconds,
thirty-five seconds, twenty-five seconds, eighteen seconds, twelve seconds,
fifteen seconds, respectively. In the last three of these eleven trials, the mani­
pulation was performed by Mrs. Goldney, there being no alteration in the
procedure.
At Sitting No. 11 [4.30 p.m.] another five experiments of this series were
done, the procedure with regard to shuffling being the same as in the batch of
fifteen done at Sitting No. 7 [i.e., the cards were shuffled at Table B.].
The results of the series are given below in Table IV [Series (iv)].
Table IV. Series (iv).
No. of
Sitting
No. of
Trials
No. of Successes
(.First Try)
7 15 5
9 11 5
11 5 2
T o t a l s 31 12
The chance of getting twelve or more successes in thirty-one trials is nearly
1 in 355, which is quite a significant result.
It was towards the end of Sitting No. 9 that the sitters began to notice
that the red card, as it lay face downwards on the table, could sometimes be
picked out from the others by a very slight flex that the others did not seem to
possess. This difference was not always obvious even in cases where Marion
48
PLATE III
“ Sentry-box” apparatus, with panels 1 and 3 removed, constructed to test
the theory that Marion finds hidden objects by acquiring indicia from the
experimenters.
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
was successful, but on certain occasions the sitters themselves were able to
pick out correctly the red card. For instance, in the seventh experiment
[4.15J p.m.] at Sitting No. 9, when the cards were spread out before Marion,
Mr. Dribbel said that he could pick out the Four of Hearts. Marion chose a
different card and his choice was wrong. Mr. Dribbel chose a card which was
correct. He said that he had distinguished the card by a little bend at the
edge.
At the eighth experiment, both Mr. Dribbel and Mr. Collins said they
could pick out the correct card. On this occasion, however, they were both
wrong, and Marion was correct. At the next experiment, before Marion had
time to choose a card, Mr. Dribbel picked out the correct card which was the
Ace of Diamonds. He pointed out to us that it was distinguishable by a slight
flex. This particular experiment is omitted from Table IV, since the card was
turned up before Marion had made his choice.
For the last three experiments on this date, Mrs. Goldney took charge as
I thought the flex might have been produced by withdrawing the card from
the envelope and it was judged that Mrs. Goldney would be more expert with
her fingers. In the ninth experiment, conducted by Mrs. Goldney, Marion
chose the King of Hearts correctly and the sitters unanimously agreed that,
on this occasion, they could not detect any flex that would serve to dis­
tinguish it from the other cards. In neither of the next two experiments
could the sitters pick out the correct card by noticing a distinguishing flex
but Marion also failed in both these trials. At the third experiment in sitting
No. 11, both Mrs. Goldney and I chose a card which we thought was the red
card—the same card, for we noticed that there was a slight flex at one end.
Our choice was correct, but Marion, who chose two different cards, was
wrong.
At the fourth experiment, Marion chose the correct card, but the sitters
would also have chosen this card as they had noticed a slight flex at one end.
At the fifth experiment, Marion chose a card that was wrong and I then
immediately turned up the right card and pointed out to the sitters a slight
convexity which caused the card to stand out from the others. During these
last five experiments, the pile had been bent vigorously backwards and
forwards, but this bending was obviously ineffective. I therefore determined
to undertake, for purposes of comparison with Series (iv), a new series
[Series (v)] in which, other conditions remaining the same, each of the six
cards should be thoroughly reflexed before the shuffling took place. When
Marion had handed me back the envelope containing the red card, I carried
it away to Table B, and standing with my back to the sitters, I withdrew the
card from the envelope and holding it close to me, face upwards, bent it
thoroughly both lengthwise and cross-wise, and at the four comers back­
wards and forwards for about five to ten seconds. I then laid the card face
upwards on the table and removed the top black card, treating it similarly.
The whole operation took from half to one minute for the six cards. Inverting
the pile, I then shuffled the cards, holding them face downwards while doing
so. The cards were slid on to the table as before, face downwards. We
commenced at 4.41£ p.m. in Sitting No. 11, and repeated the experiment
twenty-three times.
At Sitting No. 25 I did another eight experiments. In order to save
time, I had already prepared the envelopes containing the red cards at
49
D
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
home, after thoroughly flexing each card separately as described above. I
had also treated similarly all the black cards that I should need. The ex­
periments were carried out in Marion’s room at the Hyde Park Hotel, the
piles of red and black cards being placed in envelopes in my suitcase which
was behind a projection of the wall, invisible from the table at which Marion
sat. When Marion handed me back the envelope containing the red card, I
carried it away to this corner, opened it and gave the card a thorough re­
bending. I then shuffled it with the top five black cards which had been
sufficiently bent on the previous evening. The rest of the procedure was as in
Sitting No. 11.
The results of this series are given below in Table V, Series (v).
Table V. Series (v). (Cards bent separately).
No. of No. of No. of Successes
Sitting Trials (First Try)
11 2 3 5
2 5 8 2
T o t a l s 31 7
We see, therefore, that by merely flexing the cards separately, we reduce the
number of successes from twelve to seven, a number which is without signifi­
cance when compared with the chance expectation of 5.1. Chance of seven
or more successes = 1 in 4 (nearly). This may seem a trivial question—the
mere bending of a card. But it is on such trifles that some of the claims to
clairvoyance may have been based and such sources of error must be given
careful attention.
Experiments with Millboard Cards.
In order to eliminate the question of flex in the cards, I had cut special
cards made of millboard. Two hundred rectangular pieces of millboard were
cut by machine to the size of a playing card, i.e., 90 mm. by 60 mm., the
thickness being 4 mm. The faces and edges were smooth though not so
smooth as the surface of a playing card. As regards ordinary handling, the
cards were unbendable and showed not the slightest flex unless great force
was applied. In the exact centre of one of the faces of the card, I gummed a
paper label, measuring 35 mm. by 67 mm., the edges being parallel to those
of the card. In about the centre of the white paper label I painted in red ink
a circular spot of diameter 23 mm. on about fifty of the cards and on the
remainder an equilateral triangle in blue-black ink of side 23 mm. One side
of the triangle was parallel to the long edge of the label.
We commenced experiments with the stiff cards in windowed envelopes
at Sitting No. 12 on 23rd February, 1934, at 3.27 p.m. The experiment was
watched by Mr. Harry Price, Mr. I. Grant Taylor, Miss Beenham, who took
notes, and myself.
On Table B I had placed in readiness piles of millboard cards bearing the
red spot and other piles bearing the black triangle—all cards with labels
upwards. Marion sat at his usual place at the sitters’ table. I proceeded to
50
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Table B and standing with my back to Marion, slid one of the “red” cards
into one of the envelopes described on page 47, and provided with a window,
taking care to hold the card close to me and face upwards all the time. I
gummed down the flap, the label and red spot being now visible, but the
back and edges of the card entirely hidden and inaccessible without tearing the
envelope. The envelope was handed to Marion and he was watched very
closely. Marion rubbed his finger up and down the front of the card through
the little window, but did not pay attention to the edges of the envelope. He
then handed me back the envelope and I carried it to Table B, where, stand­
ing with my back to Marion and holding the envelope window upwards, I
tore open the flap and withdrew the card, laying it face upwards on the
black pile. I then lifted the card together with the five black cards under­
neath from the pile, inverted the pile and shuffled it thoroughly. Holding
the pile of six cards backs upward, I slid the cards one by one on to the table
and pushed them in front of Marion. I allowed Marion to tap the cards and to
feel the edges without lifting them. He tapped each card in turn and turned
up the card with the red spot first try. The experiment was repeated thirteen
times, using a different red card and a totally different set of black cards
each time. In each experiment, Marion was allowed to tap the cards on the
table and to draw his finger along the edges.
At the next sitting, No. 13, the series was continued and the experiment
was watched by Mr. Harry Price, Mr. and Mrs. Alex. L. Dribbel, Mrs. A.
Peel Goldney, Miss Beenham, who took the notes, and myself. The procedure
was exactly the same as in Sitting No. 12 and six more trials were made,
Marion being allowed to touch and tap the cards on the table.
The results are given in Table VI. Series (vi).
Table VI. Series (vi).
No. of No. of No. of Successes
Sitting Trials (First Try)
12 13 4
13 6 0
T o t a l s 19 4
We see that in nineteen trials, Marion obtains only four successes, compared
with the three chance would predict.
Marion could only have obtained normal assistance in this series by
carefully feeling the edges of the cards through the envelope with a finger.
For here and there were extremely slight unevenesses in the grain that could
possibly be detected by an extremely sensitive touch even through the en­
velope. The backs of the cards were so smooth that it is difficult to believe
that anything could be felt through the envelope even by the most sensitive
touch. As regards the edges, neither Miss Beenham nor I could feel anything
through the envelopes that would distinguish one card from another, but
Marion has undoubtedly a hypersensitive touch. Marion, however, did not
concentrate on the edges in Series (vi), although we shall see that he did in a
later series.
51
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
I now had cut another hundred millboard cards similar in all respects to
the first, except that more careful attention was paid to the cutting of the
edges. In the centre of one face of each card, I gummed either a red five-
pointed star or an identical blue star. The stars I bought by the hundred
ready made of extremely thin paper that was gummed on one side. These
regular stars were formed from a regular pentagon of side 10 mm. The edges
of the cards were most accurately cut, but even so, there were extremely
slight scratches here and there in the grain.
I commenced work with these new cards at Sitting No. 15 on Wednesday,
7th March, at 3.50J p.m. There were present: Mr. Harry Price, Dr. E. J.
Dingwall, Mr. C. E. M. Joad, Mr. H. S. Collins, Mrs. A. Peel Goldney, Mr.
Alex. Dribbel, Miss Beenham, taking notes, and myself. The cards were
enclosed in windowed envelopes as before and the only slight variation in
procedure was that I had my piles of “red-star” cards and “blue-star” cards
in readiness behind a curtain that was to be used for “hide-and-seek” experi­
ments. The card was withdrawn from the gummed envelope and shuffled
with five “blue-star” cards behind the opaque curtain, and the cards were
slid on to the table face downwards as before. Marion was allowed to tap the
cards and to feel their edges, but not to lift them. Seven experiments were
done and Marion turned up the red-star at first try only once. At the second
experiment, Marion was observed for the first time to hold the card tightly
between his fingers and press hard on the edges, ruffling the edges of the
envelope. This particular experiment, however, was not a success, Marion
turning up the red-star only at the third try.
At Sitting No. 16 another seven experiments of this series were done
under exactly similar conditions and in five of these seven, Marion again
pressed very hard on the edges, ruffling the envelopes. The blue- and red-
star cards were used and Marion was allowed, as before, to tap the cards on
the table and to feel the edges.
At Sitting No. 20 three more experiments were done under the same
conditions except that I put the red-star cards in their envelopes and
gummed the flaps before coming to the sitting in order to save time. In
these three experiments, Marion again pressed hard on the edges, ruffling the
envelopes.
We may sum up the results of the above series in the following table.
Table VII. Series (vii).
No. of No. of No. of Successes No. of Successes
Sitting Trials (First Try) (Second Try)
15 7 1 2
16 7 3 2
20 3 1 1
T o t a l s 17 5 5
Taking into account both "first-try” and “ second-try” successes, the chance
of getting ten or more successes in seventeen trials with p = J, is nearly
1/37, which is only moderately significant. It seems probable that since the
cards were non-flexible, and the faces were inaccessible to Marion’s sight or
52
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
touch, he got his clues from slight irregularities in the grain or curvature of
the edges felt through the envelope. The vigorous ruffling of the edges
strongly suggests this explanation. I should, of course, have made more
certain of this had Marion remained in England for further experiments.
At Sitting No. 13, I carried out a series of seventeen experiments with
the first set of millboard cards (black triangle and red spot) in which Marion
was not allowed to see the card, but only to feel it in the dark. I had on
Table B piles of cards bearing the red spot and other piles bearing the black
triangle. The procedure was as follows:—The dark shutter, having been
drawn, the lights were switched off and I handed Marion a millboard card
bearing a red spot. Marion having felt the card for a few seconds, handed it
back to me in the dark. Still in the dark, I mixed the card with five others
bearing black triangles on their faces. The pile of six cards was now held in
my hand with the faces all downwards. Feeling my way to my seat at Table A,
I asked for the light to be switched on. I then slid the cards on to the table
in front of Marion with their faces downwards, not knowing myself which
card bore the red spot.
Marion touched each card with his finger tips and sometimes passed his
finger along the edges without lifting the card. He then turned over a card,
and if this was wrong, he turned over a second card. Entirely different sets
of five “ black” cards were used for mixing at each experiment, as well as a
fresh “red” (spot) card. Eleven trials were made at Sitting No. 13 and six
more at Sitting No. 14. The results are given in the following table.
Table VIII. Series (viii).
No. of No. of First-Try Second-Try
Sitting Trials Successes Successes
13 11 5 0
14 6 4 0
T o t a l s 17 9 0
The chance of getting nine or more successes at first try in seventeen trials
with p = i is nearly 1/1511, a highly significant result.
Since the cards are inflexible to ordinary handling, it seems clear that
the recognition in this case was tactual, always supposing that Marion did
not succeed in nicking or scratching the cards in the dark. Of this scratching
or nicking, however, I was never able to find any evidence.
Using the same millboard cards (red spot and black triangle) I myself
have attempted to identify a card which I had held in the dark, and which
was afterwards mixed with five others, but in twenty trials I succeeded in
getting only three successes at first try and two at second try, a result which
could easily be ascribed to chance.
At Sittings No. 13 and No. 15,1 performed a short series of experiments
with the millboard cards in “ window” envelopes, in which the technique was
the same as that employed in Series (vi) with one important modification.
When the card was removed from the envelope, and slid upon the table with
five other cards, face downwards, Marion was not allowed to touch any of the
cards until he had made his final choice. He then either indicated which card
was to be turned up or turned up a card himself. A second choice was
53
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
allowed if the first card turned up was wrong. As the millboard cards were
inflexible, this experiment eliminated both tactual and visual recognition.
Marion could only have succeeded normally in this experiment by either
nicking or scratching the card through the envelope and afterwards identi­
fying it by the scratch or nick. But I am confident that he did not nick or
scratch the card as I was watching his fingers very carefully while he held the
The results of the experiment are to be found in the following table.
Table IX. Series (ix).
No. of
Sitting Type of Card
No. of
Trials
First-Try
Successes
Second-Try
Successes
13 M illb o a r d , s p o t a n d t r ia n g le ... 7 i
i
i
i
15
M illb o a r d , b lu e a n d r e d s ta r ... 3
T o t a l s
10 2 2
Obviously the result is almost precisely wncu.
produce and so far as it goes, it confirms our conclusion that when both
tactual and visual recognition are excluded, Marion is unable to succeed.
To sum up, Marion appears to succeed with the millboard cards, when
he is allowed to handle the naked cards at the commencement and finish of
the experiment. Possibly also he succeeds, though to a lesser extent, when
he is able to feel the edges of the cards through a fairly thin envelope and after­
wards to touch the naked edges.
Experiments with Playing Cards Completely
Concealed in Envelopes.
I have made only a few tests with cards completely enclosed in en
velopes owing to Marion’s aversion to this kind of test. Throughout the work
Marion constantly emphasised that he must be able to feel (or sense ash
called it) some portion of the playing card in order to identify it. Hence th
‘'window” -envelopes used in the preceding tests. However, there is som
slight evidence that Marion will sometimes succeed in recognising a playiri
card completely concealed in an envelope, provided that he has previous]
handled the card and the envelope is thm enough to allow him to feel tl
flexes of the card through the paper. The only evidence for this at all sn~
tive was obtained at Sitting No. 2 in the presence of a cons^
which included Lord Bective, Dr. Sylvia M. Payne, Major V>,
Rose, Dr. Edgley Curnock, Mr. Harry Price, etc.
The playing cards used were those described m detail on page,
8.55 p.m. I handed Marion the Queen of Hearts. Having stroked th
Marion left the room accompanied by Mr. Richards. I then producec
white envelopes measuring about 7| by 5 inches, all of the same ma
quality. When a playing card was placed in one of these envelopes a
envelope was held close to the electric light bulbs, the dark outline
card was just visible, but nothing of the design or pips on the face,
tested after the experiment. I placed the card touched by Marion into
the envelopes and into each of the other six envelopes I placed a dil
54
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
card. The envelopes were not sealed, but in each case the playing card was
pushed to the bottom of the envelope so that it fitted with its greatest length
parallel to the five inch edge of the envelope. The seven envelopes were then
thoroughly shuffled by me under the table and then laid on the table. Marion
and Mr. Richards were then recalled. In full view of everyone Marion held
the envelopes, one by one, in his hands and within two minutes he stated that
a certain envelope contained the Queen of Hearts. This was opened and
found to be correct.
Mr. Price then provided me with six opaque brown-paper envelopes of
about the same size and thickness as the preceding envelopes. I handed
Marion the Jack of Hearts and, having tapped it, he left the room with Mr.
Richards. The card was put into one of the brown envelopes and a different
card was placed into each of the five other envelopes. In order to make the
shuffling more effective, the light was switched off and the six envelopes were
thoroughly mixed by me on the table in the dark so that when the light was
switched on, no one in the room knew which envelope contained the Jack of
Hearts. As before, the cards had been carefully pushed to the bottom of the
envelopes. Marion and Mr. Richards were recalled. Marion took each
envelope in his hands in turn and seemed, to feel the card through the en­
velope. He then chose an envelope which he said contained the card, within a
minute of entering the room. I opened the envelope and found he was correct
The chance of Marion succeeding in both experiments is of course | x J = ?V
Subsequent experiments with envelopes failed, however, to confirm this
happy result. Using Mr. Price’s opaque, brown paper envelopes and the same
technique described in detail in the last experiment, we did another seven
experiments—three of these at Sitting No. 3 and four at Sitting No. 5. In
all these seven tests, save one, the card “sensed” by Marion was placed in an
envelope and mixed with five other envelopes each containing a card. In
one experiment, however, nine envelopes were used instead of six. In each
case, on returning to the room Marion fingered the envelopes or pressed them
with his palm. He did not gain a single success at first try, but scored three
successes at second try. There is, of course, no need to ascribe this result to
anything beyond chance, and it seems probable that the two successes ob­
tained at Sitting No. 2 were also fortuitous.
An additional experiment with the same brown envelopes was done at
Sitting No. 5 which included the following modification. The six envelopes
used were marked A, B, C, D, E, and F. Now in this case all the sitters knew
that the card "sensed” by Marion—the King of Diamonds—had been placed
in envelope C. When Marion was recalled to the room, the sitters were able
to follow this envelope with their eyes throughout Marion’s manipulations.
However, Marion did not succeed at either first or second try in selecting
envelope C.
At Sitting No. 3 I brought with me twelve extremely stout and abso­
lutely light-proof black envelopes. At 2.42 p.m. I handed Marion the King
of Diamonds and, having stroked and tapped it, he left the room. The card
chosen was placed in one of the black envelopes and a different card placed
into each of five other black envelopes. The envelopes were then thoroughly
shuffled in the dark and the light having been switched on, Marion was
recalled. Marion felt each of the six envelopes in turn and selecting two,
opened them but neither contained the King of Diamonds.
55
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
I then repeated the experiment using the same King of Diamonds and
the other six envelopes. Marion again failed at both first and second try.
He said that he could get no feeling whatever with these black envelopes, and
that it was useless for him to continue with them. Marion’s statement is
instructive and strongly suggests that the black envelopes were too thick and
stout to allow him to feel the flexes of the card inside.
Throughout the card experiments, Marion claimed that he obtained his
results by a faculty of clairvoyance. I do not think that anyone who reads
this section carefully will agree with him. I submit that there is abundant
evidence that what he relies upon mainly is his sense of touch. In such ex­
periments as those of Series (iii) where he does not touch the cards but merely
waves his hand over them, he probably recognises the card visually by the
flex he has imparted to it during his previous handling. Whether Marion
would be able to emulate the blind osteopath, Captain Lowry, and distin­
guish the pips on a card by sense of touch alone, I cannot say. But if he re­
turns to England, it is an experiment I propose to make with him. All I feel
sure of at present is that Marion possesses a highly developed sense of touch
in his fingers as well as a good tactual memory. In the next section we shall
see that there is little reason to suppose that Marion possesses any clair­
voyance in the true paranormal sense of the term.
56
SECTION III
OTHER EXPERIMENTS IN PARANORMAL
PERCEPTION
A . Experiments with Sealed Envelopes.
{a) The first experiment which I shall describe is due to Mr. Harry
Price. It was an attempt to ascertain whether Marion is able to recognise and
•distinguish colours when sealed up in opaque envelopes—or alternatively, to
•discover whether he is able, by handling several strips of coloured paper, to
say which envelope contains a piece cut from the same sheet as the strip
■which he has handled.
In readiness for the experiment, Mr. Price had taken seven strips of
paper, all of similar material and coloured, respectively, red, blue, green,
lavender, white, yellow and black. Each strip of paper was enclosed in a
sheet of black, opaque photographic paper as used in packing sensitised
plates. Each piece of coloured paper thus wrapped up was placed in a plain
white 8vo commercial envelope measuring 5f by 3$ inches. The envelopes
themselves were for ordinary purposes opaque, but the photographic paper
made the control more perfect. Into an eighth similar envelope was placed a
black paper wrapping which contained seven smaller pieces of the same paper
coloured, respectively, yellow, red, blue, white, lavender, green and black.
All the eight envelopes with their contents were identical in weight, size and
feel. We may refer to the envelopes as the black, white, yellow, red, blue,
green, lavender and "mixed” , respectively.
The experiment took place at Sitting No. 4, on Thursday, January 25th,
1934, shortly after 10 p.m. During the experiment, Mr. Price stood aside
after handing me the eight envelopes still unsealed. I removed the black
paper containers from the envelopes and, without knowing the colours of the
strips inside, I shuffled the envelopes and replaced each black container in an
envelope. I then sealed all the envelopes. No one in the room could now
know by normal means the colour inside any given envelope. The eight
envelopes were then shuffled and placed on the table before Marion. Seven
strips of coloured paper cut from the same respective sheets as were the strips
inside the envelopes were placed at his disposal and he was asked to lay each
strip on the appropriate envelope, leaving uncovered the envelope which he
thought contained the pieces of all colours.
Marion having held each envelope in turn, discarded two of them, saying
that in the case of these two, he could get no impression. He then laid a
coloured strip on each of the remaining six envelopes. I then, in the presence
of the large audience, cut open the envelopes, took out the strips, and laid
them on top of the corresponding envelopes. As I did so, I wrote on the
57
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
envelope Marion’s guess as well as the strip which it had contained. The
results which were recorded by Miss Beenham are as follows:
Colour of Contained Strip. M arion’s Guess.
1. Green Blue
2. White Green
3. Red White
4. B l a c k B l a c k
5. L a v e n d e r L a v e n d e r
6. ‘Mixed’ Red
Marion has, therefore, scored two successes and we require to know what is
the chance of obtaining two or more successes in this experiment. The prob­
lem depends on the number of ways in which counters numbered one to
eight can be placed into six holes numbered one to six, with the proviso (a)
that no counter shall bear the same number as the containing hole, or (b)
that just one counter shall bear the same number as the containing hole. It
is an elementary though very tricky exercise in permutations.
I find that the chance of getting two or more successes works out to
.171, i.e., to a chance of about one in 6, nearly. Such a result is, of course,
without significance.
At Sitting No. 6 on 1st February, 1934, the experiment was repeated.
In this case the envelopes were prepared by myself at home. I used only six
enveloped and six pieces of paper coloured, respectively, white, blue, green,
black, red, and yellow, leaving out the lavender and the “mixed” colours.
The strips were as before wrapped securely in pieces of black photographic
paper such as is used in packing sensitised plates. The envelopes were plain
white letter envelopes of good quality and fair thickness. As the experiment
was to be in the evening, and I could not be present, I handed the six en­
velopes, already sealed, personally to Mr. Price who took charge of them. I
left also six pieces of coloured paper cut from the same sheets as the strips
contained in the envelopes. The experiment was performed by Mr. Price at
9.24 p.m., and I quote Miss Beenham’s notes.
“ Six envelopes left by Mr. Soal are then taken. Each envelope contains a
coloured piece of paper and the flap of the envelope is stuck down. Each
piece of coloured paper had been wrapped in an opaque piece of photographic
paper before being put into the envelope. Six pieces of coloured paper, each
piece taken from the same sheets as the pieces of coloured paper in the en­
velopes are given to Marion. He is asked to try to match the colours given to
him, with the colours in the envelopes. He takes up one envelope and then
holds each coloured strip in turn, fingering the envelope and colour simul­
taneously. [There are white, blue, green, black, red and yellow.] He then
puts this envelope aside with the red piece of paper. He takes another en­
velope and feels first the yellow piece of paper and then the white piece. He
then puts aside the envelope with the yellow piece of paper, the next en­
velope he feels with the blue piece of paper. He holds the envelope in one
hand and the piece of coloured paper in the other, and feels each with his
fingers. He puts this envelope aside with the blue piece of paper. The other
two envelopes he quickly puts aside with the black and green pieces of paper,
respectively. This takes him three minutes. Mr. Price then writes on the
outside of the envelopes the colours which Marion has selected to represent
the corresponding colours inside the envelopes. Mr. Price then opens each
envelope . . . ”
58
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
The results are given below:
Colour of Contained Strip. Marion's Guess.
1. White
2. Black
3. Blue
4. Red
5 . G r e e n
6. Yellow
Red
White
Yellow
Blue
G r e e n
Black
Marion thus obtains one success only. We want, therefore, to know what is
the chance of getting one or more successes in this experiment. The problem
reduces to the old problem of the random placing of six letters into six
differently addressed envelopes so that no letter is sent to the right address.*
The chance of this happening is + ^ + T
\3
T. Hence in our
problem the chance of getting one or more successes is 1 - yW = yYr- That
is to say, by chance alone, Marion ought to do as well or better than he
has just done in about three times in every five. The result can therefore with
confidence be ascribed to chance.
At Sitting No. 22 I again repeated this experiment using, instead of
strips of coloured paper, eight cards bearing pictures of animals. The cards
were taken from a pack of “animal cards” of superior quality, each card
being of the same size as an ordinary playing card and having a back like
that of a playing card. The eight cards bore, respectively, the pictures of an
owl, a yellow canary, a farmyard cock, a duck, a sheep, a blackbird, a donkey,
and a pig. The colours were appropriate to the creatures depicted. Each
card was wrapped in black photographic paper in such a way that the
face of the card was completely covered and the back uncovered except for
an overlap of black paper all round of about half-inch. I had prepared eight
envelopes into which the covered cards would just fit. In the face of each
envelope was cut a rectangular window. The card and its black paper cover­
ing were placed in the envelope with the lack of the card showing through the
window. This back, therefore, could be felt by Marion while the face, bearing
the picture, had a layer of black paper between it and the envelope. The
envelopes were all of the same size and make and were sealed.
The sitting commenced at 2.30 p.m. on Friday, 18th May, 1934 [Sitting
No. 20]. I handed Marion eight duplicate cards from an exactly similar pack.
The eight envelopes were thoroughly shuffled and I then asked Marion to
lay any two aside. These two I put in my pocket. I then asked him to choose
any six of the eight cards and place them on what he thought were the cor­
responding envelopes.
“ Marion takes up one of the picture cards and places it on one of the
sealed envelopes. He then takes a second picture card and places this on
another of the sealed envelopes. He does this till six of the eight cards are
placed one on each of the six envelopes. . . . Mr. Soal then breaks open the
envelopes.” [Miss Beenham’s notes.]
The result was as follows:
* For the generalised problem of. Theory of Probability, by W. Burnside, F.R.S., p. 2 b
59
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Picture on Contained Card. Marion's Guess.
1 . Owl Canary
2. Canary Owl
3. Cock Duck
4. Duck Cock
5. Blackbird Sheep
6. D o n k e y D o n k e y
Marion therefore obtains one success.
The chance of getting one or more successes in this experiment works
out to .52. That is to say, it is about an even chance whether Marion will get
no successes at all or will get one or more.
(b) Experiment to test hyperacuity of vision.
I brought to Sitting No. 14 [Friday, 2nd March, 1934] thirty-five sealed
envelopes. The envelopes, all of the same size and quality, measured 5 by
7£ inches. Into each envelope I put a strip of either red or black paper meas­
uring 4| by 3 inches. Nineteen of the envelopes contained strips of red paper
and the remaining sixteen strips of black paper. The envelopes were of such a
thickness that when an envelope containing a red strip was held against the
inside of a window pane of south aspect, the red colour was just discernible.
If, however, a person was seated anywhere at Table A with the electric light
on, he could not distinguish the red colour unless he held the envelope above
his head to within a foot of the electric light bulb.
At 4.23 p.m. the electric light being on I produced from my case the
thirty-five envelopes which I had previously shuffled in a thorough manner.
I handed the envelopes one after another to Marion who was seated in my
usual place at Table A. Marion was told that he could lift the envelope,
but not more than an inch or two above the table. He could also turn it over.
Marion scribbled a B or an R on the front of each envelope according to
whether he imagined it to contain a black or a red paper. He then handed me
back the envelope and took the next. These were recorded by Miss Beenham.
Without opening the envelopes, I held them one by one close to the electric
light when the contents became clearly visible. Mr. Fleming called out the
colour of the paper inside each envelope. If Marion was wrong in his guess, I
put a cross on the envelope.
The result was as follows:
Marion in his guesses said “red” eighteen times and “black” seventeen
times.
Of the nineteen envelopes containing red papers, Marion guessed nine
correctly.
Of the sixteen envelopes containing black papers, he guessed seven
correctly.
These results are, of course, almost precisely what chance might be ex­
pected to produce.
The experiment, therefore, fails to reveal any hyperacuity of vision
through the envelopes.
(c) Experiment to test Marion's Alertness.
I wished to ascertain by this test how far Marion would succeed in
reading the contents of a number of sealed envelopes by availing himself of
normal means which were left for him to discover. I purchased twelve thin
60
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
white cards (2 by 3 inches) on which were printed in thick black type the
numbers 1, 2, 3 . . . up to 12, the figures being .9 inches high.
I placed each card in an envelope measuring 7 by 4J inches, the cards
being pushed to the bottoms of the envelopes so that the longer edge of the
card was parallel to the 4| inch edge of the envelope. The twelve envelopes
were then sealed. These envelopes were so thin that when one of them was
held at such an angle that the face of the card inside fell against the inner face
of the envelope, the printed number became sometimes faintly visible to a
person of normally good eyesight and could be deciphered. When the
envelope was held close to the electric light, the enclosed number was
plainly legible.
I performed the experiment at Sitting No. 13 on Wednesday, 28th
February, 1934, at 3.32 p.m., the electric fight being on. Marion sat in my
usual position at Table A. I produced the twelve envelopes which had been
thoroughly shuffled and told Marion that they contained the numbers one to
twelve. I told him that he was free to hold the envelope at any angle pro­
vided that he did not raise it more than three or four inches above the table.
I let Marion believe that the experiment was an ordinary experiment in
paranormal perception. Marion took the first envelope and drew a seven on
it. I then opened it and it contained the number four. Marion took the
second envelope and held it in his hands. He then drew on it what appeared
to be ten. I opened the envelope and it contained five. After this Marion
held each envelope at an angle to the table and began to be successful in his
guesses. Each envelope was opened immediately after he had made his guess.
I will give now the results of the experiment.
Contained Number. Marion's Guess.
4 7
5 10
6 6
1 1 or 7
10 10
3 3
12 11 or 12
8 8
9 5 or 6
7 1 or 7
2 2
11 11
I did not reveal to Marion the real object of the above experiment. The
results, of course, show clearly enough that Marion read the numbers
through the envelopes and this implies a certain cleverness. Nevertheless, I
think that a more intelligent man would have confessed that he was reading
by normal vision and not by any magical means. Further, it is clear that
Marion does not make full use of his data. In the fourth trial, he hesitates
between one and seven, probably because the printed one had a small tick
to it, but though he has seen that the one is now "out” he again hesitates
between one and seven in the tenth trial. Similarly, in the ninth trial though
he ought to know that both the five and six are “out” he still hesitates be­
tween five and six, and mistakes the nine for a six, though he had been told
that he had rightly guessed the six in the third trial. Marion’s cleverness
seems to imply a quickness of visual perception rather than an intelligence
based on rational inference.
61
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
But the experiment shows that Marion will take any advantage of
normal means placed within his reach, without acknowledgment that he is
employing such means, c.f. Section I, page 21. Immediately the above ex­
periment was finished I produced another set of twelve sealed envelopes
which I had prepared in a somewhat different way.
I took first twelve envelopes exactly similar to those used in the pre­
ceding test and cut off their tops so that they now formed open paper bags
measuring 4 by 4f inches. I then took twelve cards identical with those
described above, bearing the numbers one to twelve and placed a card inside
each paper bag, pushing the card to the bottom as before. I then took twelve
very stout envelopes each measuring 4| by 7 inches, and fitted the paper bags
containing the cards into these stout envelopes, pushing them to the bottom
so that the 4-inch edge of the bag was parallel to the 4|-inch edge of the outer
envelope. The envelopes were then sealed and when they were held close to
the electric light, the dark outline of the card could be very faintly seen, but
not a trace of the printed number. Marion held each envelope in turn and
wrote on it his impression of the number inside. This time, the envelopes
were not opened till all twelve guesses had been registered.
The result was as follows:
Contained Number. Marion's Guess.
4 5 or 6
7 6 or 10
5 3 Sure
3 1 or 7
2 1 or 5
11 1 or 11
12 7 or 2
10 9 or 8
1 11 or 2
9 8 or 9
8 7 or 5
6 7 or 1
Thus, with his “ first-try” guesses, Marion has not achieved a single success
and only two successes at second try.
It does not require any statistical evaluation to decide that Marion is
now completely at sea. His “ faculty” only functions when the envelope is
sufficiently thin for him to see the contents through the paper. And I say
this without any disparagement of Marion, for, in spite of all the vast tomes
that have been published on psychical research, I have yet to meet the human
being who under similar conditions can do what Marion has failed to do!
(d) Experiment with Drawings in Sealed Envelopes.
Previous to Sitting No. 8, I purchased three very thick stiffish envelopes
measuring 7.6 by 5 inches, and of a pale brown colour. I marked the envelopes
A, B, C, on the outside. In envelope A I placed, unfolded, a rectangle of
white writing paper measuring 5.3 by 4.3 inches on one side of which I had
drawn in black ink a simple picture of a cottage with spirals of smoke issuing
from its two chimne s. (Reproduced on next page).
62
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
In envelope C I placed, unfolded, a rectangle of the same white paper
measuring 6.1 by 4.4 inches, on which I had drawn a parallelogram of sides
3.8 by 2.8 inches and angle of about 80°. This parallelogram was divided into
a network of equal small parallelograms by drawing parallels to the sides,
there being seventy-seven such small lozenge-shaped figures. The whole was
drawn in black ink.
In envelope B I placed a picture postcard, one of a series called "Out of
Doors” . On one side of the card was a picture in colours entitled “Autumn
Sprite” which depicted a young girl with flowing black hair and clad in
diaphanous material, dancing on some short grass beneath a spray of foliage.
Her arms were outstretched and there were cymbals in her hands. A few
yellow leaves were falling through the air and she seemed to be standing on a
grassy hill-top with a range of blue hills in the background.
The three envelopes were then sealed and when held close to the electric
light, were of such thickness and texture that neither the drawings nor out­
lines of the sheets of paper were visible. Neither was the outline of the post­
card visible. On the reverse of this postcard were the usual blank spaces for
stamp and four horizontal lines for the address. Along the left-hand edge of
the blank side were the words:
Ou t of D oors
Copyright: The Medici Society Ltd., London.
Engraved and printed in England. (Published in the United States, by
Hale, Cushman & Flint, Inc., Boston, Mass.)
In the left-hand bottom corner of the blank face was printed a small circular
63
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
medallion showing the head of Catherine Medici and bearing the circular
inscription: “ The Medici Society Limited.” There was nothing written on the
blank face.
At 10.5 p.m., at Sitting No. 8, on 8th February, 1934, I handed Marion
the sealed envelope A, telling him that it contained “either a drawing or a.
picture.”
I will now quote Miss Beenham’s notes:
“ Marion takes envelope A and says that he will draw on a piece of paper
the impressions he gets. He draws several interlocking circles like wheels
with a horizontal line at top and bottom of these circles. He then draws
what look like two short lines at an angle to the top horizontal line. This,
takes him forty-five seconds.” (Fig. reproduced below).
“ He then takes envelope C. He holds it in his hand for a second or so, and’
then draws several vertical lines with a zig-zag line along the bottom of these
lines. This took thirty-nine seconds.” [Fig. reproduced below.] Marion had.
again been told that “the envelope contains either a drawing or a picture.”
“He then takes envelope B and holds it in his hand. He says that there are-
many different faces of different persons. The persons’ faces show looks of
surprise. The expressions are ones of surprise. He then says that there is a
little square on the back. He draws this on a piece of paper. It is a square
with a little circle in the middle of it. Time: two minutes, fifty-five seconds.”
Miss Beenham’s notes. As before, Marion had been told “that the envelope-
contained either a drawing or a picture.” Marion’s drawing of the “ little
square” is reproduced at top of page 65.
64
F i g u r e I. P l a n o f S e a n c e R o o m . S c a l e J I n c h = 1 F o o t .
rectangles. V* =H . S. Collins’ Seat in experiment (p. 27).
S* —S. G. Soal's Seat. U* =Miss Beenham’s position.
P*=Harry Price’s Seat. G* = Mrs. Goldney’s Seat in experiment (p. 72).
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
“ Many people were against him” certainly applies to his career in England,
but they were simply trying to persuade him, for his own good, to give up a
subject in which it seemed evident he had no ability. But the statement that
“the reason people were against him was because he came out with some new
ideas” is not true, if it is meant to apply to the period when he was in Eng­
land. Dr. Z, when in England, was never known as an undergraduate to
produce any new ideas so far as his subject was concerned. The statement
that “The opposition was unjust” therefore, is absolutely untrue though
Dr. Z who had immense confidence in himself may have imagined he was
unjustly treated.
The personal description, though vague, is fairly good—as far as it
goes—except perhaps in two particulars. As I knew Dr. Z in 1923, he
possessed such an abundance of hair that it seems improbable that he has
lost it in eleven years. Further, his complexion was naturally pale and not at
all red. The deep-set eyes and bulging forehead and round face are fairly
correct bits of description. In 1923 Dr. Z told me that he was thirty-eight
years of age, so that the age stated fifty to sixty is a little too high. “ Tall, not
slim” is also accurate, for Dr. Z is a tall, broad-shouldered man. But he was
certainly alive on 16th February, the time of the sitting, and was alive in
December, 1935, when I last heard from him. During his last year in Eng­
land, I knew him intimately and can certainly testify that he is “one of the
best” and I have been amazed as well as gratified by his practical success in
a career for which—to all his English friends—he appeared to be so badly
handicapped.
But while admitting that, in a vague sort of way, Marion has scored now
and then in his remarks about this man, the coincidences do not seem to be
more than chance ones. There is the bad mistake about the man’s death.
Marion would probably be able to get the impression of a vigorous person­
ality from the crabbed, vigorous quality of the handwriting. That he was a
man of "new ideas” is clear from the statement in the letter that “ M r.------
gladly accepted my suggestions for both volumes” , etc. He is obviously not a
young man for, if he were, it is improbable that he would be making the
suggestion of some academic undertaking to a man much older than himself.
The case seems to me to be one of rational inference by Marion fro m the
given data supplemented by lucky guessing.
A few minutes later on the same date, I handed Marion a rectangular
strip of bluish paper which was cut from a letter. One side of the slip
(4.4 by 3.5 inches) was covered by nine lines of handwriting in black pencil
and the other side was blank. Marion was asked to describe the writer and
to say if he were alive or dead.
you a photo of the house.
I took it when on leave
if you remember but had
not time to develop same
then; it will remind you of
what the garden was
like; you could send it
to Charlie if you like.
By the way is he likely
81
F
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
When he had held this strip, Marion said “This writer is a middle-aged man,
good-hearted and likes a quiet life. Living.” [in reply to the question if the
writer were alive or dead.]
Now for the facts. The slip was cut from a letter written by my brother,
the late Frank Soal, while serving with his unit in Ireland. He was subse­
quently sent to France and died of wounds received in action in September,
1918. He was nineteen years of age at the time of his death.
Marion could scarcely have been farther from the mark.
Statistical Test.
In order to test Marion’s claim that he was able to say by holding a
letter if the writer were living or dead, I procured a number of letters and
portions of letters, each of which was written by a different person. In all,
I obtained forty such letters or portions of letters and of these twenty of the
writers were living and twenty dead at the time of the experiment. In each
case, the fact of death was definitely known or it was definitely known that
the writer was alive. Of these forty letters, twenty-five were provided by
Mrs. A. Peel Goldney, five by myself and the remainder by Mr. Harry Price.
The letters provided by Mrs. Goldney and myself were without exception,
letters from relatives or private friends. But two of the letters belonging to
Mr. Price were from the late Houdini and the late Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,
and there was another from Mr. Leslie Curnow deceased, who was prominent
in the spiritualist movement in England. I think it in the highest degree im­
probable that Marion would be familiar with the handwriting of any of the
other writers. In the actual test, he guessed that Houdini was dead, but that
both Conan Doyle and Leslie Curnow were alive, which shows that he did not
recognise even Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, let alone Leslie Curnow. Most of the
letters were single sheets of paper or half sheets, bearing neither address nor
signature. In cases where there was a signature or an address, the letter was
folded in such a way that when Marion held it, neither the date, signature,
nor address could be seen. The oldest of the letters dated back to 1905 and
this letter, provided by Mrs. Goldney, certainly possessed a faded appearance.
The next two oldest letters were written in the year 1913, and next after
these was a letter written in 1918. In the case of the three letters written in
1905 and 1913 Marion was wrong in all his guesses. Previous to the actual
experiment, Mrs. Goldney had taken the forty letters and, after folding each
with care, had put them into forty plain envelopes which were left unsealed.
She then thoroughly shuffled the envelopes and after shuffling, numbered
them one to forty. Then, in order to avoid errors, she wrote in pencil the
corresponding numbers on each of the contained letters. She had, previous
to folding the letters, marked each in pencil with a number in shorthand and
had compiled a list of the names of the writers opposite the shorthand num­
bers marked on the letters. After the shuffling and numbering of the en­
velopes, she now made use of the shorthand numbers on the letters to compile
a new list of names opposite the numbers written on the corresponding
envelopes.
Mrs. Goldney brought the forty envelopes thus numbered to Sitting
No. 10 and at 4.4 p.m. the experiment commenced. During the experiment,
Mrs. Goldney occupied herself in another part of the room, knowing nothing
82
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
of what was going on at the experimenters’ table. As Mrs. Goldney would
have recognised the handwriting of a large proportion of the letters, it was
thought best to avoid the possibility of her giving any kind of hints to Marion.
As for myself, I had up to now seen only my own five letters and these I
certainly recognised as I handed them to Marion, but none of the others.
Miss Beenham sat at the same table, but at the other end, as it was thought
she might possibly recognise some of the letters provided by Mr. Price.
Mr. and Mrs. Chance and Mr. Alex. Dribbel watched the experiment, but
none of these had previously seen the letters. I sat next to Marion and took
up the envelopes in the order in which they were numbered one to forty.
This order had been originally determined by shuffling so that now there was
no possibility of any systematic sequence of the letters as regards “ dead
and “living” . I handed the folded letters to Marion one by one, replacing
each in its envelope when Marion had given his verdict. I called out the
number, which was recorded by Miss Beenham, together with the words
“ alive” or “ dead” . Nos. 14 and 26 proved to be typewritten letters and in
the case of these two, Marion said he could get no impression. In the case of
No. 35, Marion said he was "not sure as the person is an old man—he may
be dead” . We have, therefore, to discard Nos. 14, 26, and 35.
Of No. 38, Marion said, “very alive; never was ill” . In the case of Nos.
24 and 37 I asked in addition for a personal description; these were the cases
of Dr. Z, and Frank Soal, discussed above. At the end of the experiment, we
did not tell Marion how far he was correct in his guesses, as it was hoped that
we might be able to repeat the experiment after an interval.
Discarding Nos. 14, 26, 35, we have thirty-seven persons, of whom
twenty were alive and seventeen dead at the time of the experiment. Now
in his thirty-seven guesses, Marion favoured "alive” twenty-nine times and
"dead” only eight times. Hence for the “alives” , the expected number of
correct guesses = f f x 29 = 15.7. The actual number of correct guesses for the
"alives” = 18. And for the "deads” the expected number of correct guesses =
1 1 x 8 = 3.7. The actual number of correct guesses for the “ deads” = 6. The
differences between the actual and expected numbers are too small to be of
any significance.
The folding of the letters had been undisturbed by Marion.
The experiment is, of course, on too small a scale to be really conclusive,
but it strongly suggests that Marion’s claim has no real basis in fact. If he
does possess a faculty which enables him to distinguish dead from living
people by inspecting their handwriting, it must—judging from the results
of the above experiment—be such a slight faculty as to be of little practical
value to him in his stage work.
Sitters’ Experiments.
I shall now describe a few experiments in “psychometry” that were not
under my personal control in so far as the choice of the objects or the subse­
quent verification of the statements is concerned. It was inevitable that
sitters, especially at the demonstration séances, should desire to test Marion’s
powers for themselves. In such cases, I did my best to secure afterwards the
pertinent facts which would serve to corroborate or to confute Marion’s
statements. But I had, of course, to rely upon the accuracy and veracity of
the people concerned.
83
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
The following incident took place at Sitting No. 3 at about 4.15 p.m.
Miss Beenham took the notes as usual. The notes read: “Dr. J. A. Hewitt
then handed a printed card to Marion. Marion says that it belonged to a
man who tried very much. He went through different kinds of work and
changed a lot. Never a hundred per cent sincere—came into difficulties—•
against the law—many quarrels—he disappears for a time, and comes back
in ‘another position again’. Marion then says that he will describe its con­
nection with Dr. Hewitt. He says that he (the man) met him in disagreeable
circumstances. The owner of the card tried to do the dirty on him [i.e., on
Dr. Hewitt]—not a nice feeling he gets. He tried to do some damage in
connection with you [speaking to Dr. Hewitt]—the matter is not finished
yet. Marion then says that he does not like the matter.”
Dr. Hewitt then explained that he knew really nothing about the owner
of the card. But it seems that this man had wrecked Dr. Hewitt’s car by
running into it from behind with his own car. Dr. Hewitt said that he was
going immediately to see his legal adviser about the wrecked car with a view
to making the man pay him for the damage.
Marion then remarked "that he will have much trouble and he is doubtful
if he will get the best of it.”
The card was the business card of a well-known motor manufacturer.
In reply to a letter which I addressed to Dr. Hewitt several weeks later, he
told me that Marion’s forecast of trouble had not materialised. He had had
no dealings with the man who had wrecked his car as the man was not
responsible, his own car having been struck from behind by yet another car
and thus impelled on to Hewitt’s car. There had been no trouble whatever—•
the whole thing had gone smoothly and “apart from the time it has taken
has given no trouble of any kind.” Marion’s prediction of “much trouble” ,
therefore, seems to have been false, as there was no litigation.
In this same letter [dated April 24th, ’34] Dr. Hewitt says that as he had
no dealings with the man, he could not give me any information throwing
any light on Marion’s estimate of the man’s character “ Never a hundred
per cent sincere” , etc.
The only really interesting statement in Marion’s reading is the state­
ment that Dr. Hewitt and the owner of the card met in disagreeable cir­
cumstances. But the following statement that the man "tried to do the dirty
on Dr. Hewitt” is quite false since the man was not responsible for the
accident. Nor can it be said that "he tried to do some damage in connection
with Dr. Hewitt” . But all the same, it is curious that Marion should have
used the word “damage” and difficult to see how he could have got anj? clue
either from the card itself or from Dr. Hewitt’s manner. But Marion’s state­
ments are too vague to have any convincing value.
The next case is quoted-not so much as a test of Marion, as for the light
which it throws upon the psychology of some sitters. At Sitting No. 6, one
of the demonstration seances, a gentleman whom I shall designate as Mr. Y
(not belonging to the regular group) gave Marion a handwritten letter at
9.35 p.m.
I will first quote Miss Beenham’s notes. “ Mr. Y gives a handwritten
letter to Marion, who handles it for a moment, then unfolds it and appears to
read it. He turns over the sheet and appears to read the other side. He then
folds the letter up again, and paces up and down the room, holding the letter
84
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
in his hand. He again opens the letter, and again appears to read it. He then
walks up and down the room with his eyes shut, still holding the letter. He
says that the writer had a very severe education. It was monotonous for him,
and at last he broke away from it. He got himself free from home, and went
away; for many years he was interested to do something on his own; for many
years it could not be, but at last he broke away and followed his own will.
He wanted to develop on an artistic line. It was a big separation for the
family. He is above all a self-willed man, and does not take any advice.
Marion then fingers the letter again and says that he will talk of the sur­
roundings where letter was written. It was written in a big room; on a broad
table are very many different files of papers. There is a calendar with
turned back pages (leaves)—the room is in artificial light and it is evening.
The letter was written in a great hurry, and the person had much to do. The
writer of the letter went out of the front of the house and posted the letter
himself. Marion then says that the letter was received by Mr. Y with a
picture card and printed papers. [This took ten minutes.] Mr. Y then said
that without being too critical, the description is really very good and it describes
the man perfectly. On the whole, Marion is quite accurate. [Miss Beenham’s
notes.]
The sitting was on 1st February, 1934, and unfortunately, I was not
present, this being the only sitting that I missed.
On the 20th April, 1934,1 posted a little questionnaire to Mr. Y which I
shall here reproduce. The replies were received on 24th April, 1934, and, in
the covering letter, Mr. Y wrote:
“ Dear Sir,
Mr. —— sent me your notes and I am replying to your questions.
As far as it is possible, I have investigated Marion’s remarks about the [two]
letters, but I should not say they were any way near accurate. [Italics mine.]
He took the letter out of the envelope, if you will remember, and I had the
distinct impression that he was taking out a word here and there with his
eyes, but he was probably tired and, by that time, rather fed up.
“ Yours truly,”
Questions. Replies.
(i) Had the writer a very severe education?
(In what special way severe?)
Did he find his education “ monotonous” ? Why?
No.
(ii.) It was not so.
(iii.) Did he break away from home and go away to do The procedure was quite
something on his own? Could you give brief
details?
normal.
(iv.) Was what he wanted to do in the artistic line?
Please state nature of this occupation
Write.
(V.) Was he a complaisant or a self-willed man? She is a woman!
(Vi.) Was the letter written in a big or a small room? Very small.
(vii.) Were there any files of paper on the table in this
room where the letter was written?
Yes.
(viii.) Was there a calendar with upturned pages in the
room?
No.
(ix.) At what time of day was the letter written
(roughly) ?
Evening.
(X.) Was the letter written in a hurry? No.
(xi.) Did the writer post it himself? No.
(xii.) Was the letter received with a picture card and
printed papers?
No.
So
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
It will be noted with regard to the twelve questions put to Mr. Y, only three
of his answers do not flatly contradict the story told by Marion. In fact, the
only three points in Mr. Y ’s answers that are in agreement with the original
statements of Marion are No. iv. [He wanted to write], No. ix. [The letter
was written in the evening], and No. vii. [There were files of paper on the
table in the room where the letter was written.]
That is to say, if we accept Mr. Y ’s answers as accurate, then all that
Marion has succeeded in getting right amounts to this: “This letter was
written by some person in the evening, in a room where there were files of
paper on the table. This person at some time of his life wanted to write.” I
am not at present concerned with the reliability of Mr. Y ’s statement that the
letter was written in the evening or whether Marion could have discovered
this by reading the letter. What is really amazing is Mr. Y ’s statement at
the sitting that “the description is really very good and describes the man
perfectly. On the whole Marion is quite accurate.”
At 9.50 p.m. on the same evening, Mr. Y handed Marion another hand­
written letter. We have again recourse to Miss Beenham’s notes: “ Marion
takes the letter in his hand and appears to read it. He folds it up, and
paces up and down the room with the letter in his hand. He says that the
person has not had a happy life. The person was often very disappointed
about different things. He was interested in most things. At one time, the
person would want to commit suicide; often this thought would go through
the mind, but it would be pressed down by a new interest in his life. He was a
pessimist. He is a very important person, and has new ideas, and I would
say, inventions. It is only a matter of time when something will happen in
the life high above the average. The person is very busy writing about
different things. Already there are many pages prepared for the inventions.”
[This took Marion five minutes.]
“Mr. Y says that the description is very accuratefrom what he knows of the
man.’’ [Miss Beenham’s notes.]
However, I addressed a questionnaire on this description, also to Mr. Y,
and on 24th April, 1934 received his replies. These are given below.
Questions. Replies.
(i) Had the writer of the second letter a happy life or
not?
Not very.
(it) Is it true that the writer had thoughts of suicide
at any time?
Depressed probably— but no
more suicidal than most
people.
(iii.) Was he a man of many interests? Yes.
(iv.) Was he an optimist or a pessimist? Optimist.
(V.) Had he ever made any inventions? No.
(vi.) Is he writing about his inventions? No.
(vii.) Does the letter itself contain any hints about in­
ventions, or his pessimism, or optimism?
No.
(vili.) Is there any mention in the letter itself that the
person was busy writing articles about that time
( i.e ., the time when the letter was written) ?
None whatever.
Accepting, for the moment, Mr. Y ’s statements or replies as accurate, let
us make a brief summing up. “Here,” says Marion, in effect, “was a man
whose life was not happy, who was a pessimist, who, at times, wanted to
commit suicide. He has inventions about which he is busy writing.” "Here,”
says Mr. Y, in effect, “is a man whose life was not very happy, who was yet
86
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
an optimist and though probably depressed at times, was no more suicidal
than most people. He never had any inventions or wrote about them.”
And yet, at the sitting, Mr. Y told us that “ Marion’s description is very
accurate from what he [Mr. Y] knows of the man.”
At Sitting No. 8, on Thursday, 8th February, 1934, Mrs. Richards at
9.58 p.m., handed Marion a hand-written letter. “Marion holds it in his
hands, and appears to read it. He turns it over and looks at the writing on
the other side of the page. He then walks up and down the room, with one
hand on his forehead, and the letter in his other hand. He says that the
writer of the letter is an extraordinary person. He has many hobbies. He
has an original character; he is persevering, has poise and balance, But he
had several conflicts and lost a little of his balance. He is a lucky person and
has always had the good things of life in plenty. He had nothing to do with
the luck that came to him. One of his hobbies was to do good; charitable.
Marion says that that is the man’s personality. He says that the man is
living.” [Miss Beenham’s notes.] During Marion’s “psychometry” of the
letter, Mrs. Richards had left the room. She was recalled when Marion had
finished, and the notes were read aloud to her. Mrs. Richards said, "That
certainly describes the man.”
On April 20th, I submitted to Mrs. Richards a questionnaire on the
subject of the above letter. In a letter dated 22nd April, 1934, which
accompanied her replies, Mrs. Richards remarks: "The reading of my letter
by Marion was not at all satisfactory—the only thing that was correct was
that he [the man] was well-favoured with this world’s goods.” The questions
and replies are set out below.
Questions.
(i.) What is the date at the head of the letter?
(ii.) Did the writer have many “ hobbies” ? What were
they?
(iii.) Was he a “ lucky” person and had he always the
good things of life in plenty?
(iv.) Was he charitable in any exceptional way?
(v.) Is he still living?
(vi.) Could Marion tell from the signature of the letter
that the writer was a man?
(vii.) Is there anything in the contents of the letter to
' lead Marion to guess that the man was (a) charit­
able, (6) a man of many hobbies, (c) a person who
was wealthy or well-off?
(viii.) Was he lucky through his own efforts, or had he
nothing to do with his prosperity?
Replies.
February 2nd, 1934.
One only, and that was
riding.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
Yes.
No.
He was born in fortunate
circumstances.
Unfortunately, I was unable to inspect the letter as Mrs. Richards preferred
not to send it. As in the case of Mr. Y it will be observed that Mrs. Richards’
first impression of Marion’s work was favourable, but when she came to
examine it in detail, she found the description “not at all satisfactory” .
This suggests that sitters at public séances often report favourably on a
psychic’s work simply because they do not, at the time, make any analysis
of the medium’s statements and the general impressions they form are apt to
be misleading.
In the case quoted above since the letter was written only six days
previous to the sitting, Marion would probably feel perfectly safe in asserting
that the writer was still living. The signature would inform him that the
87
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
writer was a man. Marion states that the man has many hobbies; according
to Mrs. Richards, he has only one—that of riding. I suppose that there are
very few men who have not a hobby of some kind. Marion says the man is
charitable and that one of his hobbies is to do good. Mrs. Richards says that
he was not charitable in any noticeable way. Knowing that Mrs. Richards is
well-to-do, Marion-probably guessed that the writer of the letter was a friend
who belonged to the same social class. Once Marion had decided that the
man is well-to-do, charities and hobbies would suggest themselves as natural
corollaries.
But how elusive and banal are the majority of these “readings” ! How
devoid of any specific detail that would serve to differentiate the writer from
the thousands of other human beings to each of whom the same descriptions
would apply!
At Sitting No. 14, on Friday, 2nd March, 1934, there were present,
among others, Dr. Gordon Fleming and his brother, Mr. S. W. Fleming.
Dr. Fleming had brought a letter contained in a sealed envelope for Marion
to psychometrise, but having to leave in the middle of the sitting, he left
the letter with his brother who remained to the end.
At 4.32 p.m., Mr. S. W. Fleming handed Marion the envelope which was
unaddressed and sealed—an ordinary plain white envelope. Mr. Fleming did
not himself know the contents of the envelope. Miss Beenham’s record reads
as follows: “ Marion holds it (the envelope) and says that it is handwriting—
very small. It is written with dark ink. It is from a man who is tall, slim—
all is long about him. He has a long face, the sight is not good, bad teeth.
He is an educated person. He is not in London. The letter is about social
things. There is nothing important in it.”
Mr. Fleming then opened the envelope. The handwriting was fairly
small, though not remarkably so. The letter was written from Ridge-End,
and there did not appear to be anything of great importance in it.
In a letter, I addressed a few questions to Dr. Gordon Fleming, and on
April 24th I received his replies as follows:
Questions. Replies.
(i.) Was the letter from a man? Yes.
(ii.) Was his sight bad? If so, how bad? No.
(iii.) Had he bad teeth?
Noticeably bad?
No.
(iv.) Had he a long face? No—round.
(V.) Is there anything important in the letter? Not really—commonplace.
(Vi.) Was the letter about social matters mainly or
entirely?
Yes.
(vii.) Was the man tall? How tall? Yes—over six feet.
(viii.) Was he slim? Noticeably so? Of medium build.
It will be seen that Marion has guessed correctly:
(i.) The letter was written by a man.
(ii.) It was written from the country.
(iii.) The man is tall.
(iv.) There is not much of importance in the letter,
(v.) It is mainly about social matters.
(vi.) The man is educated.
88
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
As regards statement (vi.) since Dr. Fleming himself was obviously an
educated man, it is a fair inference that probably nine out of ten of the letters
he receives are from educated people. Again as regards (v.) it would be safe
to say that three out of every four of the letters that are handed to Marion
to be “psychometrised” are “social” rather than “business” letters, since
clients are interested for the most part in the characters of their private
friends and acquaintances. And it is probably true to say that nine out of ten
of such “social” letters contain nothing of any vital importance. It would
seem, therefore, that the only correct statements that could not be the
result of rational inference and common experience are Nos. (i.), (ii.), and
(iii.). Now, as regards No. (i.), the chance that the letter was written by a
man is roughly half. As regards No. (iii.), if by "tall” we understand “in
height exceeding 5 feet 9 inches, tables show that about one in every six
men exceed this stature. No. (ii.) is more difficult to estimate, but let us put
the chance at |. This makes the combined chance of the three statements
being true about though it might actually be much bigger. In connection
with statements such as these we can hardly attach any importance to such a
small degree of significance.
“ Psychometry” of Objects.
At Sitting No. 19, on Thursday, 27th March, 1934, I handed Marion
a small green induction coil. This appliance, which is obviously a toy, was
given by me as a present to my deceased brother, Frank, at Christmas, 1912.
He and two other boys amused themselves by connecting the coil to a dry
hattery and giving people shocks. This coil is mentioned on p. 504 of S.P.R.
Proceedings, Part XCVI, Vol. XXXV. I asked Marion to describe the owner
of the coil, and to give any impressions he got from it. I was interested to
ascertain whether Marion would show any signs of having read the S.P.R.
Proceedings, Part XCVI, Vol. XXXV.
I will now quote Miss Beenham’s record: “2.55 p.m. Marion holds the
Induction coil in his hand. He says that he sees a room with various experi­
mental apparatus for educational, rather than practical purposes in it. This
coil comes into contact with young people. There is a tall young man, with a
pimply face; the complexion is not clear. The person is nervous and anaemic.
This man was ill for a very long time; hewas taken to the hospital. There was
an accident, and he had something wrong with his body. Through this
accident, the man suffered ill health. The accident was caused through
carelessness. Marion says that the man is dead, and these are his only im­
pressions.”
First, it appears obvious that Marion does not recognise the coil as the
one mentioned in S.P.R. Proceedings, Part XCVI, Vol. XXXV, p. 504.
Possibly, he has never read the S.P.R. Proceedings.
The “room full of various experimental apparatus for educational
purposes” could only apply to the shop at which I bought the coil. But as it
is obvious that the coil is a mere toy with two handles attached for getting
shocks, Marion’s guess that the coil was associated with young people is
merely an astute rational inference from the appearance of the object.
The description of the tall young man does not seem to fit my brother
Frank. His complexion was exceptionally clear and fair, and I can never
89
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
remember his having pimples. He was neither anaemic, nor nervous. The
only accidents of a serious nature experienced by him were (a) a gassing in
the War, and (b) his death from wounds four months later. He was certainly
taken to hospital when he was gassed.
The lack of identifying detail in this description renders it of no value.
At Sitting No. 3, on Wednesday, 24th January, 1934, at 4.10 p.m.
Mr. Bois handed Marion a ring to psychometrise and then left the room. On
his return, Miss Beenham read aloud Marion’s description from her notes.
“ Marion holds the ring in his hand and walks up and down the room. He
says that the ring is associated with great difficulties. A great assembly of
people in a sort of struggle in which many—or most—lost their lives. The
object has its origin in connection with that event. The person originally
connected with the ring is dead. This describes origin of ring. Later—and for
its greater history—it has been shut up and not worn. It has been connected
with a desk with pigeon holes in one of which the ring was kept. Then came a
time when it was, apparently, lost and was sought for. People lost their lives
in connection with the actual material from which the ring is fashioned. It
was not made in England. It was made for a certain purpose. The ring
seems to have been made by an amateur—not a professional jeweller—at the
time of its origin just spoken of. Marion then said that was his principal
impression. Eight and a half minutes taken over description.”
In reply to an enquiry wdiich I addressed to him, Mr. Bois wrote:
“ Referring to your enquiry relative to the ring which was psychometrised by
Mr. Marion, this ring was bought by me at a public auction at Sotheby’s
about February or March, 1929. In the catalogue it was described as having
belonged to Cardinal Beaufort and Henry VII, and is said to have belonged
to Joan of Arc. The ring is unquestionably of the period, that is, the first
third of the fifteenth century.”
It seems hopeless to attempt to verify the somewhat vague statements
made by Marion about the ring. Nevertheless, I think Mr. Bois’ experiment
was worth trying. It would have been interesting, for instance, if Marion
had said that the ring had belonged to a king or prince.
At Sitting No. 2, on Thursday, 18th January, 1934, Dr. Edgley Curnock
handed me a small, bent silver coin which, unknown to Marion, I wrapped in
several pieces of stiffish paper and, having put the little packet inside a plain,
white letter envelope, I sealed it up.
At 10.15 p.m. I handed Marion the sealed envelope, and asked him to
give his impressions.
I will now quote Miss Beenham’s notes: “ Mr. Soal hands Marion the
envelope. He is asked to give his impressions. Marion says it is something
which is valued. The person took great trouble. The person to whom it
belongs is very proud of it. It is a reward. It is connected with some act of
valour. It is like a star. Marion says that it may be in another form, but he
cannot express himself. He takes a pencil and draws a star on a piece of
paper.” Dr. Edgley Curnock then told the audience briefly that the object
was a coin which belonged originally to John Wesley. Associated with the
coin was a story which, however, Dr. Curnock does not believe. According
to this story, John Wesley who was rather superstitious, was out riding one
day and fell off his horse. This coin was in his pocket and when he picked
90
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
himself up not much the worse, he found the coin bent and ever afterwards
kept it as a souvenir.
In a letter dated 21st September, 1934, Dr. Edgley Curnock gave me
more detailed information about the history of the coin. The coin, which is a
fourpenny bit of the period of one of the Georges, has had its date worn off.
The coin was in the first instance given by John Wesley to an ancestor of
Dr. Curnock named Anne Edgley when she was a little girl. Since then, it
has remained in the family and finally came into Dr. Cumock’s possession,
since he is the only descendant bearing the name of Edgley. Dr. Curnock has
no idea as to how the coin was bent, but, personally, does not credit the
story of the horse.
It will be seen that Marion has said absolutely nothing that bears upon
the above history and the only correct statement is his remark that the object
“is something which is valued.” But judging from his statements: “ It is a
reward. It is connected with some act of valour. It is like a star” , Marion
seems totally unaware that the object is a coin and probably thinks it is some
star-shaped medal or decoration won for bravery in the field. It must be
admitted that Marion has totally failed again to describe either the object or
its cissocicitions
At Sitting No. 17, on Friday, 16th March, 1934, Mr. Ellic Howe, un­
known to Marion, gave Mr. Dribbel a Russian rouble. At about 3.34 p.m.
Mr. Dribbel pushed the rouble quickly into Marion’s hand and, bending his
fingers over it, told him not to look, but to give his impressions. Marion held
the coin in his closed hand, and spoke in German. Mr. Dribbel wrote down
Marion’s statements in German as follows:
“ Das war eine ziemlich schwere Zeit. Ein ganzes Leben hat sich
umgestellt. Dieser Mensch hat irgend eine neue Lebensform. In dem
früheren Kreis waren grosse Kämpfe und Verwüstung(en)? Ziemlich
grosser, starker Mann, der irgend eine Anstellung gehabt hat in kaufmännis­
cher Art. Das Bedeutende ist, dass er zweimal sein Lebe beginnen musste.
Dieser Mensch lebt nicht mehr.” Mr. Howe, who had left the room before
Mr. Dribbel handed Marion the rouble, now returned. He read the German
and translated it into English, adding after each sentence a comment.
Marion’s statements with the comments made by Mr. Howe at the sitting are
given below.
Marion's Statement. Comment by Mr. Howe.
"This was a rather difficult period.” Russian Revolution and after.
effects.
"An entire life has been changed.”
“ This person has some new type of life.” Yes, both possessors.
"In the earlier sphere there was great conflict and Both of them.
devastation. A fairly tall, strong man, earlier was a Yes, banker and industrialist.
big business man, who held some post of a com- Correct for both owners.
mercial nature. The significant thing is that he had
to begin life over again. This person is no longer
living.”
In reply to some questions which I addressed to Mr. Ellic Howe, he sent me
the following information in a letter dated 19th September, 1934.
“ The coin, which was a Russian rouble, dated 1899, had formerly
belonged to a Russian banker X, who gave it to his daughter Y. Before the
revolution X had been a business man who owned vast interests in Russia.
91
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
[This is Mr. Howe’s interpretation of the phrase "Earlier was a big business
man.”] The daughter Y gave Mr. Howe the rouble a week before she com­
mitted suicide in Paris in 1933. X had previously died of old age in 1930,
or thereabouts. Both father and daughter had lost their homes through the
revolution.”
Now it will be remembered that Marion, in his own admission, had
fought on the Russian front during the War. These roubles were in circula­
tion till 1918 at least and it is very probable, therefore, that he had seen such
coins. Though Mr. Dribbel pressed the coin quickly into his hand, we must
assume that Marion saw it and recognised it as a rouble of pre-revolution
days. Marion would then naturally think of the revolution and throw a cast
with the veiled phrase: “ It was a fairly difficult time” . The idea of a rich
man dispossessed of his home might next suggest itself. There would also
be a fair likelihood of the man being now dead, through his misfortunes and
sufferings in the Revolution. If the man had passed through the Revolution,
it would be safe to hazard the statements: “A whole lifetime had to be
changed,” and “Had to build up a new life” .
As Mr. Howe says in his letter: “ If Marion knew a rouble when he saw
one—then the story would come pat. It would fit most Russians I know. No
medium has ever given me really startling information about this coin.”
It would seem, therefore, that Marion’s statements might easily be
rational guesses based on his recognition of the coin. I should add that I
personally can take no responsibility for the experiment, as I was quite
unaware that any test was contemplated until I saw Mr. Dribbel press what
looked like a medal into Marion’s hand. But even if Marion had been handed
the coin in the dark, he might have recognised it by touch.
92
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION.
T
HE statisticalexperiments described in Section I undoubtedlyshowthat
Marion has the power of rapidly locating small objects that have been
concealed in a room by an audience of about half a dozen persons who
know the hiding-place and whose bodily movements he is able to observe.
He succeeds likewise, in cases in which no actual object is hidden, in dis­
covering the imaginary hiding-place concentrated upon by the audience.
When an object is hidden, but no one present in the room is consciously
aware of the hiding-place, Marion fails absolutely to obtain any success
beyond what might be attributed to chance. Marion fails also in cases where
the audience, knowing the hiding-place and able to watch his movements,,
are yet completely screened from his observation by a curtain or by thick
blankets. It would appear, therefore, that a vital condition for success is
that Marion should be able to watch the movements of some person or per­
sons who know where the object is hidden.
We have shown also that Marion succeeds when he is followed round the
room by a single person who knows the hiding-place, the remainder of the
audience being concealed from his view. It is probable, however, that he
will only succeed with a certain type of follower—a person of definitely motor
temperament—but more experiments are required to settle this point com­
pletely. In cases in which Marion is followed by a single agent, it is established
that the seeker does not rely necessarily upon changes in facial expression or
even upon head movements for his clues. The experiments with the “ Robot
Box” demonstrate with a high degree of probability that the movements of
walking of footsteps, etc., furnish the principal indicia in this case.
Our experiments with the “sentry-box” show that even with good,
“ following” agents like Mr. A. Dribbell and Mr. H. S. Collins, Marion fails
in the case in which every part of the agent’s body is screened from his sight
and the agent is not allowed to walk, but is merely wheeled round the room.
We have shown further that Marion is able to succeed with a single agent who
is stationary, but whose whole body is concealed with the exception of the
head which itself is covered with a hood, through which the agent is able to
watch the seeker. In this case head-noddings most probably furnish the
clues.
The experiments would seem to emphasise the importance of the use of
a screen in all telepathic tests in which the percipient is required to choose an
object thought of by the agent from a group of five or six distinct alterna­
tives, e.g., as in the experiments of Dr. J. B. Rhine.
In Section II it is shown that Marion is able to recognise a new playing
card, that he has previously handled, when it has been mixed with several,
other cards of identical make and design. The results strongly indicate that,
in this feat, he relies mainly upon his tactual sense and upon a study of the
contact which the card makes with the surface of the table. It is shown.
93
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
definitely that the figure on the face of the card plays no part in the process of
recognition. He is similarly able to identify a stiff millboard card, which he
has been allowed to hold in the dark, by means of his sensitive touch. When
tactual and visual clues are completely ruled out, Marion succeeds no more
often than chance would predict. These experiments suggest a most serious
source of error in a great many of the card-guessing tests described by Miss
Ina Jephson and Dr. J. B. Rhine.
In Section III statistical and other experiments in telepathy and clair­
voyance are described. There is no reason to suppose that Marion possesses
the faculty of reading the contents of sealed envelopes or packages. Nor are
there any indications that he is able to divine numbers thought of by mem­
bers of the audience. When, however, the numbers are inscribed on cards
which Marion is able to manipulate in view of his audience, he may succeed
by using the methods described in Section I, i.e., by observing the reactions
of the audience. He fails similarly in guessing playing cards by genuine
telepathic means.
It is shown in Section IV that Marion’s claims to delineate the lives and
character of persons from an inspection of specimens of their handwriting
are without foundation. Marion, in fact, is a very poor graphologist, quite
apart from any supernormal considerations. He fails also to achieve any
unequivocal success in his “psychometry” of objects handed to him by the
sitters.
94
A P P E N D I X .
L i s t o f S i t t e r s a t t h e T w e n t y - F i v e S é a n c e s H e l d i n J a n u a r y , F e b r u a r y , M a r c h '
M a y , J u n e a n d J u l y , 1934.
(•
Figures denote number of Sitting attended by the person indicated.)
\st Sitting
2nd Sitting
3rd Sitting
4th Sitting
5th Sitting
6th Sitting
7th Sitting
8th Sitting
9th Sitting
1Oth Sitting
11th Sitting
12th Sitting
13th Sitting
14th Sitting
15th Sitting
16th Sitting
17th Sitting
18th Sitting
19th Sitting
20th Sitting
21 st Sitting
22nd Sitting
23rd Sitting
24th Sitting
25th Sitting
17th January, 1934.
18th January, 1934.
24th January, 1934.
25th January, 1934.
31st January, 1934.
1st February, 1934.
7th February, 1934.
8th February, 1934.
14th February, 1934.
16th February, 1934.
21st February, 1934.
23rd February, 1934.
28th February, 1934.
2nd March, 1934.
7th March, 1934.
9th March, 1934.
16th March, 1934.
23rd March, 1934.
27th March, 1934.
18th May, 1934.
15th June, 1934.
29th June, 1934.
6th July, 1934.
27th July, 1934.
28th July, 1934.
Adcock, Miss L., 6
Allsop, Mr. Ben, 2
Arnold-Foster, Mrs. H. C., 4
Balfour, Dr. Margaret, 6
Bective, Lady, 2
Bective, Lord, 2
Beenham, Miss Ethel, 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25
Bieber, Mr. Fritz, 20
Bois, Mr. H. G., 3, 4, 5, 9
Bronson, Mr. W., 6
Chance, Mr., 10
Chance, Mrs., 10
Chetham-Strode, Mr. W., 6
Collins, Mr. H. S., 2, 5, 7, 9, 11, 14, 15,
16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24,’ 25’
Coplestone-Boughey, Mrs., 4, 6
Cossor, Dr. J., 17
Culpin, Dr. Millais, 4
95
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Curnock, Dr. J. Edgley, 2, 4
Cumock, Mrs. J. Edgley, 4
Dingwall, Dr. E. J., 15
' Doulton, Mr. Peter, 2
Dribbel, Mr. Alex. L., 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 10,
11, 13, 15, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23
Dribbel, Mrs. Alex. L., 13
Dwyer, Mrs. K., 4
Fleming, Dr. Gordon, 14
Fleming, Mr. S. W., 14
Frick, Mrs. Winifred, 4
Giglio, Mr. E., 2
.Goldney, Mr. A. Peel, 24
Goldney, Mrs. A. Peel, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7,
9, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 22,
23, 24, 25
Gwyn, Mr. W. J., 2
Hankey, Mrs. M., 2
Harris, Professor, 3
Hartridge, Professor, 3
Hewitt, Dr. J. A., 3
Howe, Mr. Ellic, 17, 18, 19, 20, 24
Joad, Mr. C. E. M., 15
Lambert, Mr. R. S., 4
Lambert, Mrs. R. S., 4
Lier, Mr. J. van, 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11
Maitland-Woolf, Mr., 16
Mallous, Mrs. G., 2
Montague, Mrs. Amy, 6
Morton, Dr. Eva, 4
Paul, Miss D., 8
Payne, Dr. Sylvia M., 2
Price, Mr. Harry, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9„
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 21, 22, 24
Rampling-Rose, Major W., 2, 6
Richards, Mr. Barry, 2
Richards, Mrs. Henry, 1, 3, 5, 8, 9, 11
Ridley, Dr. Frederick, 4
Sands, Lord, 8
Soal, Mr. S. G„ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
21, 22, 23, 24, 25
Stewart, Miss M. A., 2
Tapper, Mr., 6
Tapper, Mrs., 6
Taylor, Mr. I. Grant, 12
Wagstaffe, Mrs. E. C., 6
Wilson, Mr. Rathmell, 16
96
F i g u r e II. S c a l e : I n c h to 1 F o o t .
Diagram showing distances between Tin Boxes and their positions
relation to the sitters’ Table. Compare with Figure I.
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
“ Many people were against him” certainly applies to his career in England,
but they were simply trying to persuade him, for his own good, to give up a
subject in which it seemed evident he had no ability. But the statement that
"the reason people were against him was because he came out with some new
ideas" is not true, if it is meant to apply to the period when he was in Eng­
land. Dr. Z, when in England, was never known as an undergraduate to
produce any new ideas so far as his subject was concerned. The statement
that “ The opposition was unjust” therefore, is absolutely untrue though
Dr. Z who had immense confidence in himself may have imagined he was
unjustly treated.
The personal description, though vague, is fairly good—as far as it
goes—except perhaps in two particulars. As I knew Dr. Z in 1923, he
possessed such an abundance of hair that it seems improbable that he has
lost it in eleven years. Further, his complexion was naturally pale and not at
all red. The deep-set eyes and bulging forehead and round face are fairly
correct bits of description. In 1923 Dr. Z told me that he was thirty-eight
years of age, so that the age stated fifty to sixty is a little too high. "Tall, not
slim” is also accurate, for Dr. Z is a tall, broad-shouldered man. But he was
certainly alive on 16th February, the time of the sitting, and was alive in
December, 1935, when I last heard from him. During his last year in Eng­
land, I knew him intimately and can certainly testify that he is "one of the
best” and I have been amazed as well as gratified by his practical success in
a career for which—to all his English friends—he appeared to be so badly-
handicapped.
But while admitting that, in a vague sort of way, Marion has scored now
and then in his remarks about this man, the coincidences do not seem to be
more than chance ones. There is the bad mistake about the man’s death.
Marion would probably be able to get the impression of a vigorous person­
ality from the crabbed, vigorous quality of the handwriting. That he was a
man of “new ideas” is clear from the statement in the letter that “ M r.------
gladly accepted my suggestions for both volumes” , etc. He is obviously not a
young man for, if he were, it is improbable that he would be making the
suggestion of some academic undertaking to a man much older than himself.
The case seems to me to be one of rational inference by Marion from the
given data supplemented by lucky guessing.
A few minutes later on the same date, I handed Marion a rectangular
strip of bluish paper which was cut from a letter. One side of the slip
(4.4 by 3.5 inches) was covered by nine lines of handwriting in black pencil
and the other side was blank. Marion was asked to describe the writer and
to say if he were alive or dead.
you a photo of the house.
I took it when on leave
if you remember but had
not time to develop same
then; it will remind you of
what the garden was
like; you could send it
to Charhe if you like.
By the way is he likely
81
F
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
When he had held this strip, Marion said “This writer is a middle-aged man,
good-hearted and likes a quiet life. Living.” [in reply to the question if the
writer were alive or dead.]
Now for the facts. The slip was cut from a letter written by my brother,
the late Frank Soal, while serving with his unit in Ireland. He was subse­
quently sent to France and died of wounds received in action in September,
1918. He was nineteen years of age at the time of his death.
Marion could scarcely have been farther from the mark.
Statistical Test.
In order to test Marion’s claim that he was able to say by holding a
letter if the writer were living or dead, I procured a number of letters and
portions of letters, each of which was written by a different person. In all,
I obtained forty such letters or portions of letters and of these twenty of the
writers were living and twenty dead at the time of the experiment. In each
case, the fact of death was definitely known or it was definitely known that
the writer was alive. Of these forty letters, twenty-five were provided by
Mrs. A. Peel Goldney, five by myself and the remainder by Mr. Harry Price.
The letters provided by Mrs. Goldney and myself were without exception,
letters from relatives or private friends. But two of the letters belonging to
Mr. Price were from the late Houdini and the late Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,
and there was another from Mr. Leslie Cumow deceased, who was prominent
in the spiritualist movement in England. I think it in the highest degree im­
probable that Marion would be familiar with the handwriting of any of the
other writers. In the actual test, he guessed that Houdini was dead, but that
both Conan Doyle and Leslie Curnow were alive, which shows that he did not
recognise even Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, let alone Leslie Curnow. Most of the
letters were single sheets of paper or half sheets, bearing neither address nor
signature. In cases where there was a signature or an address, the letter was
folded in such a way that when Marion held it, neither the date, signature,
nor address could be seen. The oldest of the letters dated back to 1905 and
this letter, provided by Mrs. Goldney, certainly possessed a faded appearance.
The next two oldest letters were written in the year 1913, and next after
these was a letter written in 1918. In the case of the three letters written in
1905 and 1913 Marion was wrong in all his guesses. Previous to the actual
experiment, Mrs. Goldney had taken the forty letters and, after folding each
with care, had put them into forty plain envelopes which were left unsealed.
She then thoroughly shufHed the envelopes and after shuffling, numbered
them one to forty. Then, in order to avoid errors, she wrote in pencil the
corresponding numbers on each of the contained letters. She had, previous
to folding the letters, marked each in pencil with a number in shorthand and
had compiled a list of the names of the writers opposite the shorthand num­
bers marked on the letters. After the shuffling and numbering of the en­
velopes, she now made use of the shorthand numbers on the letters to compile
a new list of names opposite the numbers written on the corresponding
envelopes.
Mrs. Goldney brought the forty envelopes thus numbered to Sitting
No. 10 and at 4.4 p.m. the experiment commenced. During the experiment,
Mrs. Goldney occupied herself in another part of the room, knowing nothing
82
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
of what was going on at the experimenters’ table. As Mrs. Goldney would
have recognised the handwriting of a large proportion of the letters, it was
thought best to avoid the possibility of her giving any kind of hints to Marion.
As for myself, I had up to now seen only my own five letters and these I
certainly recognised as I handed them to Marion, but none of the others.
Miss Beenham sat at the same table, but at the other end, as it was thought
she might possibly recognise some of the letters provided by Mr. Price.
Mr. and Mrs. Chance and Mr. Alex. Dribbel watched the experiment, but
none of these had previously seen the letters. I sat next to Marion and took
up the envelopes in the order in which they were numbered one to forty.
This order had been originally determined by shuffling so that now there was
no possibility of any systematic sequence of the letters as regards "dead
and “ living” . I handed the folded letters to Marion one by one, replacing
each in its envelope when Marion had given his verdict. I called out the
number, which was recorded by Miss Beenham, together with the words
"alive” or “ dead”. Nos. 14 and 26 proved to be typewritten letters and in
the case of these two, Marion said he could get no impression. In the case of
No. 35, Marion said he was "not sure as the person is an old man—he may
be dead” . We have, therefore, to discard Nos. 14, 26, and 35.
Of No. 38, Marion said, “very alive; never was ill” . In the case of Nos.
24 and 37 I asked in addition for a personal description; these were the cases
of Dr. Z, and Frank Soal, discussed above. At the end of the experiment, we
did not tell Marion how far he was correct in his guesses, as it was hoped that
we might be able to repeat the experiment after an interval.
Discarding Nos. 14, 26, 35, we have thirty-seven persons, of whom
twenty were alive and seventeen dead at the time of the experiment. Now
in his thirty-seven guesses, Marion favoured "alive" twenty-nine times and
"dead” only eight times. Hence for the “ alives” , the expected number of
correct guesses = fy x 29 = 15.7. The actual number of correct guesses for the
"alives” =18. And for the "deads” the expected number of correct guesses =
-P
t x 8 = 3.7. The actual number of correct guesses for the “deads” = 6. The
differences between the actual and expected numbers are too small to be of
any significance.
The folding of the letters had been undisturbed by Marion.
The experiment is, of course, on too small a scale to be really conclusive,
but it strongly suggests that Marion’s claim has no real basis in fact. If he
does possess a faculty which enables him to distinguish dead from living
people by inspecting their handwriting, it must—judging from the results
of the above experiment—be such a slight faculty as to be of little practical
value to him in his stage work.
Sitters’ Experiments.
I shall now describe a few experiments in “psychometry” that were not
under my personal control in so far as the choice of the objects or the subse­
quent verification of the statements is concerned. It was inevitable that
sitters, especially at the demonstration seances, should desire to test Marion’s
powers for themselves. In such cases, I did my best to secure afterwards the
pertinent facts which would serve to corroborate or to confute Marion’s
statements. But I had, of course, to rely upon the accuracy and veracity of
the people concerned.
83
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
The following incident took place at Sitting No. 3 at about 4.15 p.m.
Miss Beenham took the notes as usual. The notes read: “Dr. J. A. Hewitt
then handed a printed card to Marion. Marion says that it belonged to a
man who tried very much. He went through different kinds of work and
changed a lot. Never a hundred per cent sincere—came into difficulties—
against the law—many quarrels—he disappears for a time, and comes back
in ‘another position again’. Marion then says that he will describe its con­
nection with Dr. Hewitt. He says that he (the man) met him in disagreeable
circumstances. The owner of the card tried to do the dirty on him [i.e., on
Dr. Hewitt] not a nice feeling he gets. He tried to do some damage in
connection with you [speaking to Dr. Hewitt]—the matter is not finished
yet. Marion then says that he does not like the matter.”
Dr. Hewitt then explained that he knew really nothing about the owner
of the card. But it seems that this man had wrecked Dr. Hewitt’s car by
running into it from behind with his own car. Dr. Hewitt said that he was
going immediately to see his legal adviser about the wrecked car with a view
to making the man pay him for the damage.
Marion then remarked “that he will have much trouble and he is doubtful
if he will get the best of it.”
The card was the business card of a well-known motor manufacturer.
In reply to a letter which I addressed to Dr. Hewitt several weeks later, he
told me that Marion’s forecast of trouble had not materialised. He had had
no dealings with the man who had wrecked his car as the man was not
responsible, his own car having been struck from behind by yet another car
and thus impelled on to Hewitt’s car. There had been no trouble whatever—
the whole thing had gone smoothly and “apart from the time it has taken
has given no trouble of any kind.” Marion’s prediction of “much trouble” ,
therefore, seems to have been false, as there was no litigation.
In this same letter [dated April 24th, ’34] Dr. Hewitt says that as he had
no dealings with the man, he could not give me any information throwing
any light on Marion’s estimate of the man’s character “ Never a hundred
per cent sincere” , etc.
The only really interesting statement in Marion’s reading is the state­
ment that Dr. Hewitt and the owner of the card met in disagreeable cir­
cumstances. But the following statement that the man “tried to do the dirty
on Dr. Hewitt is quite false since the man was not responsible for the
accident. Nor can it be said that “ he tried to do some damage in connection
with Dr. Hewitt” . But all the same, it is curious that Marion should have
used the word damage and difficult to see how he could have got any clue
either from the card itself or from Dr. Hewitt’s manner. But Marion’s state­
ments are too vague to have any convincing value.
. Tl[e next case is quoted not so much as a test of Marion, as for the light
which it throws upon the psychology of some sitters. At Sitting No. 6, one
of the demonstration seances, a gentleman whom I shall designate as Mr. Y
(not belonging to the regular group) gave Marion a handwritten letter at
9.35 p.m.
I will first quote Miss Beenham’s notes. “ Mr. Y gives a handwritten
letter to Marion, who handles it for a moment, then unfolds it and appears to
read it. He turns over the sheet and appears to read the other side. He then
folds the letter up again, and paces up and down the room, holding the letter
84
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
in his hand. He again opens the letter, and again appears to read it. He then
walks up and down the room with his eyes shut, still holding the letter. He
says that the writer had a very severe education. It was monotonous for him,
and at last he broke away from it. He got himself free from home, and went
away; for many years he was interested to do something on his own; for many
years it could not be, but at last he broke away and followed his own will.
He wanted to develop on an artistic line. It was a big separation for the
family. He is above all a self-willed man, and does not take any advice.
Marion then fingers the letter again and says that he will talk of the sur­
roundings where letter was written. It was written in a big room; on a broad
table are very many different files of papers. There is a calendar with
turned back pages (leaves)—the room is in artificial light and it is evening.
The letter was written in a great hurry, and the person had much to do. The
writer of the letter went out of the front of the house and posted the letter
himself. Marion then says that the letter was received by Mr. Y with a
picture card and printed papers. [This took ten minutes.] Mr. Y then said
that without being too critical, the description is really very good and it describes
the man perfectly. On the whole, Marion is quite accurate. [Miss Beenham's
notes.]
The sitting was on 1st February, 1934, and unfortunately, I was not
present, this being the only sitting that I missed.
On the 20th April, 1934,1 posted a little questionnaire to Mr. Y which I
shall here reproduce. The replies were received on 24th April, 1934, and, in
the covering letter, Mr. Y wrote:
“ D e a r Sir ,
M r.------- sent me your notes and I am replying to your questions.
As far as it is possible, I have investigated Marion’s remarks about the [two]
letters, but I should not say they were any way near accurate. [Italics mine.]
He took the letter out of the envelope, if you will remember, and I had the
distinct impression that he was taking out a word here and there with his
eyes, but he was probably tired and, by that time, rather fed up.
“ Yours truly,”
(i.)
(ü.)
(iii.)
(iv.)
( v . )
(Vi.)
(vii.)
(viii.)
(ix.)
(X .)
(xi.)
(xii.)
Questions.
Had the writer a very severe education?
(In what special way severe?)
Did he find his education "monotonous” ? Why?
Did he break away from home and go away to do
something on his own? Could you give brief
details?
Was what he wanted to do in the artistic line?
Please state nature of this occupation
Was he a complaisant or a self-willed man?
Was the letter written in a big or a small room?
Were there any files of paper on the table in this
room where the letter was written?
Was there a calendar with upturned pages in the
room?
At what time of day was the letter written
(roughly) ?
Was the letter written in a hurry?
Did the writer post it himself?
Was the letter received with a picture card and
printed papers?
Replies.
No.
It was not so.
The procedure was quite
normal.
Write.
She is a woman!
Very small.
Yes.
No.
Evening.
No.
No.
No.
85
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
It will be noted with regard to the twelve questions put to Mr. Y, only three
of his answers do not flatly contradict the story told by Marion. In fact, the
only three points in Mr. Y ’s answers that are in agreement with the original
statements of Marion are No. iv. [He wanted to write], No. ix. [The letter
was written in the evening], and No. vii. [There were files of paper on the
table in the room where the letter was written.]
That is to say, if we accept Mr. Y ’s answers as accurate, then all that
Marion has succeeded in getting right amounts to this: “ This letter was
written by some person in the evening, in a room where there were files of
paper on the table. This person at some time of his life wanted to write.” I
am not at present concerned with the reliability of Mr. Y ’s statement that the
letter was written in the evening or whether Marion could have discovered
this by reading the letter. What is really amazing is Mr. Y ’s statement at
the sitting that “the description is really very good and describes the man
perfectly. On the whole Marion is quite accurate.”
At 9.50 p.m. on the same evening, Mr. Y handed Marion another hand­
written letter. We have again recourse to Miss Beenham’s notes: “ Marion
takes the letter in his hand and appears to read it. He folds it up, and
paces up and down the room with the letter in his hand. He says that the
person has not had a happy life. The person was often very disappointed
about different things. He was interested in most things. At one time, the
person would want to commit suicide; often this thought would go through
the mind, but it would be pressed down by a new interest in his life. He was a
pessimist. He is a very important person, and has new ideas, and I would
say, inventions. It is only a matter of time when something will happen in
the life high above the average. The person is very busy writing about
different things. Already there are many pages prepared for the inventions.”
[This took Marion five minutes.]
"Mr. Y says that the description is very accuratefrom what he knows of the
man." [Miss Beenham’s notes.]
However, I addressed a questionnaire on this description, also to Mr. Y,
and on 24th April, 1934 received his replies. These are given below.
Questions. Replies.
(i) Had the writer of the second letter a happy life or
not?
Not very.
(ii.) Is it true that the writer had thoughts of suicide
at any time?
Depressed probably—but no
more suicidal than most
people.
(in-) Was he a man of many interests? Yes.
(iv.) Was he an optimist or a pessimist? Optimist.
(v.) Had he ever made any inventions? No.
(Vi.) Is he writing about his inventions? No.
(vii.) Does the letter itself contain any hints about in­
ventions, or his pessimism, or optimism?
No.
(viii.) Is there any mention in the letter itself that the
person was busy writing articles about that time
(i.e., the time when the letter was written) ?
None whatever.
Accepting, for the moment, Mr. Y ’s statements or replies as accurate, let
us make a brief summing up. “ Here,” says Marion, in effect, “was a man
whose life was not happy, who was a pessimist, who, at times, wanted to
commit suicide. He has inventions about which he is busy writing.” “ Here,”
says Mr. Y, in effect, “is a man whose life was not very happy, who was yet
86
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
an optimist and though probably depressed at times, was no more suicidal
than most people. He never had any inventions or wrote about them.”
And yet, at the sitting, Mr. Y told us that “ Marion’s description is very
accurate from what he [Mr. Y] knows of the man.”
At Sitting No. 8, on Thursday, 8th February, 1934, Mrs. Richards at
9.58 p.m., handed Marion a hand-written letter. “Marion holds it in his
hands, and appears to read it. He turns it over and looks at the writing on
the other side of the page. He then walks up and down the room, with one
hand on his forehead, and the letter in his other hand. He says that the
writer of the letter is an extraordinary person. He has many hobbies. He
has an original character; he is persevering, has poise and balance, But he
had several conflicts and lost a little of his balance. He is a lucky person and
has always had the good things of life in plenty. He had nothing to do with
the luck that came to him. One of his hobbies was to do good; charitable.
Marion says that that is the man’s personality. He says that the man is
living.” [Miss Beenham’s notes.] During Marion’s “psychometry” of the
letter, Mrs. Richards had left the room. She was recalled when Marion had
finished, and the notes were read aloud to her. Mrs. Richards said, "That
certainly describes the man.”
On April 20th, I submitted to Mrs. Richards a questionnaire on the
subject of the above letter. In a letter dated 22nd April, 1934, which
accompanied her replies, Mrs. Richards remarks: “ The reading of my letter
by Marion was not at ail satisfactory—the only tiling that was correct was
that he [the man] was well-favoured with this world’s goods.” The questions
and replies are set out below.
Questions.
(i.) What is the date at the head of the letter?
(ii.) Did the writer have many “ hobbies” ? What were
they?
(iii.) Was he a “ lucky” person and had he always the
good things of life in plenty?
(iv.) Was he charitable in any exceptional way?
(v.) Is he still living?
(vi.) Could Marion tell from the signature of the letter
that the writer was a man?
(vii.) Is there anything in the contents of the letter to
lead Marion to guess that the man was (a) charit­
able, (6) a man of many hobbies, (c) a person who
was wealthy or well-off?
(viii.) Was he lucky through his own efforts, or had he
nothing to do with his prosperity?
Replies.
February 2nd, 1934.
One only, and that was
riding.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
Yes.
No.
He was born in fortunate
circumstances.
Unfortunately, I was unable to inspect the letter as Mrs. Richards preferred
not to send it. As in the case of Mr. Y it will be observed that Mrs. Richards’
first impression of Marion’s work was favourable, but when she came to
examine it in detail, she found the description “not at all satisfactory” .
This suggests that sitters at public séances often report favourably on a
psychic’s work simply because they do not, at the time, make any analysis
of the medium’s statements and the general impressions they form are apt to
be misleading.
In the case quoted above since the letter was written only six days
previous to the sitting, Marion would probably feel perfectly safe in asserting
that the writer was still living. The signature would inform him that the
87
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
writer was a man. Marion states that the man has many hobbies; according
to Mrs. Richards, he has only one—that of riding. I suppose that there are
very few men who have not a hobby of some kind. Marion says the man is
charitable and that one of his hobbies is to do good. Mrs. Richards says that
he was not charitable in any noticeable way. Knowing that Mrs. Richards is
well-to-do, Marion probably guessed that the writer of the letter was a friend
who belonged to the same social class. Once Marion had decided that the
man is well-to-do, charities and hobbies would suggest themselves as natural
corollaries.
But how elusive and banal are the majority of these “readings” ! How
devoid of any specific detail that would serve to differentiate the writer from
the thousands of other human beings to each of whom the same descriptions
would apply!
At Sitting No. 14, on Friday, 2nd March, 1934, there were present,
among others, Dr. Gordon Fleming and his brother, Mr. S. W. Fleming.
Dr. Fleming had brought a letter contained in a sealed envelope for Marion
to psychometrise, but having to leave in the middle of the sitting, he left
the letter with his brother who remained to the end.
At 4.32 p.m., Mr. S. W. Fleming handed Marion the envelope which was
unaddressed and sealed—an ordinary plain white envelope. Mr. Fleming did
not himself know the contents of the envelope. Miss Beenham’s record reads
as follows: “ Marion holds it (the envelope) and says that it is handwriting—
very small. It is written with dark ink. It is from a man who is tall, slim—
ah is long about him. He has a long face, the sight is not good, bad teeth.
He is an educated person. He is not in London. The letter is about social
things. There is nothing important in it.”
Mr. Fleming then opened the envelope. The handwriting was fairly
small, though not remarkably so. The letter was written from Ridge-End,
and there did not appear to be anything of great importance in it.
In a letter, I addressed a few questions to Dr. Gordon Fleming, and on
April 24th I received his replies as follows:
Questions. Replies.
(i.) Was the letter from a man? Yes.
(ii.) Was his sight bad? If so, how bad? No.
(iii.) Had he bad teeth?
Noticeably bad?
(iv.) Had he a long face? No__round.
IT? anything important in the letter? Not really— commonplace,
(vi.) Was the letter about social matters mainly or Yes.
entirely?
(vii.) AYas the man tall? liow tall? Yes—over six feet
(viii.) Was he slim? Noticeably so? Of medium build. '
It will be seen that Marion has guessed correctly:
(i.) The letter was written by a man.
(ii.) It was written from the country.
(iii.) The man is tall.
(iv.) There is not much of importance in the letter.
(v.) It is mainly about social matters.
(vi.) The man is educated.
88
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
As regards statement (vi.) since Dr. Fleming himself was obviously an
educated man, it is a fair inference that probably nine out of ten of the letters
he receives are from educated people. Again as regards (v.) it would be safe
to say that three out of every four of the letters that are handed to Marion
to be “psychometrised” are “social” rather than “business” letters, since
clients are interested for the most part in the characters of their private
friends and acquaintances. And it is probably true to say that nine out of ten
of such “social” letters contain nothing of any vital importance. It would
seem, therefore, that the only correct statements that could not be the
result of rational inference and common experience are Nos. (i.), (ii.), and
(iii.). Now, as regards No. (i.), the chance that the letter was written by a
man is roughly half. As regards No. (iii.), if by “ tall” we understand “in
height exceeding 5 feet 9 inches, tables show that about one in every six
men exceed this stature. No. (ii.) is more difficult to estimate, but let us put
the chance at This makes the combined chance of the three statements
being true about though it might actually be much bigger. In connection
with statements such as these we can hardly attach any importance to such a
small degree of significance.
“ Psychometry” of Objects.
At Sitting No. 19, on Thursday, 27th March, 1934, I handed Marion
a small green induction coil. This appliance, which is obviously a toy, was
given by me as a present to my deceased brother, Frank, at Christmas, 1912.
He and two other boys amused themselves by connecting the coil to a dry
battery and giving people shocks. This coil is mentioned on p. 504 of S.P.R.
Proceedings, Part XCVI, Vol. XXXV. I asked Marion to describe the owner
of the coil, and to give any impressions he got from it. I was interested to
ascertain whether Marion would show any signs of having read the S.P.R.
Proceedings, Part XCVI, Vol. XXXV.
I will now quote Miss Beenham’s record: “2.55 p.m. Marion holds the
Induction coil in his hand. He says that he sees a room with various experi­
mental apparatus for educational, rather than practical purposes in it. This
coil comes into contact with young people. There is a tall young man, with a
pimply face; the complexion is not clear. The person is nervous and anaemic.
This man was ill for a very long time; he was taken to the hospital. There was
an accident, and he had something wrong with his body. Through this
accident, the man suffered ill health. The accident was caused through
carelessness. Marion says that the man is dead, and these are his only im­
pressions."
First, it appears obvious that Marion does not recognise the coil as the
one mentioned in S.P.R. Proceedings, Part XCVI, Vol. XXXV, p. 504.
Possibly, he has never read the S.P.R. Proceedings.
The “room full of various experimental apparatus for educational
purposes” could only apply to the shop at which I bought the coil. But as it
is obvious that the coil is a mere toy with two handles attached for getting
shocks, Marion’s guess that the coil was associated with young people is
merely an astute rational inference from the appearance of the object.
The description of the tall young man does not seem to fit my brother
Frank. His complexion was exceptionally clear and fair, and I can never
89
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
remember his having pimples. He was neither anaemic, nor nervous. The
only accidents of a serious nature experienced by him were (a) a gassing in
the War, and (b) his death from wounds four months later. He was certainly
taken to hospital when he was gassed.
The lack of identifying detail in this description renders it of no value.
At Sitting No. 3, on Wednesday, 24th January, 1934, at 4.10 p.m.
Mr. Bois handed Marion a ring to psychometrise and then left the room. On
his return, Miss Beenham read aloud Marion's description from her notes.
"Marion holds the ring in his hand and walks up and down the room. He
says that the ring is associated with great difficulties. A great assembly of
people in a sort of struggle in which many—or most—lost their lives. The
object has its origin in connection with that event. The person originally
connected with the ring is dead. This describes origin of ring. Later—and for
its greater history—it has been shut up and not worn. It has been connected
with a desk with pigeon holes in one of which the ring was kept. Then came a
time when it was, apparently, lost and was sought for. People lost their lives
in connection with the actual material from which the ring is fashioned. It
was not made in England. It was made for a certain purpose. The ring
seems to have been made by an amateur—not a professional jeweller—at the
time of its origin just spoken of. Marion then said that was his principal
impression. Eight and a half minutes taken over description.”
In reply to an enquiry which I addressed to him, Mr. Bois wrote:
“ Referring to your enquiry relative to the ring which was psychometrised by
Mr. Marion, this ring was bought by me at a public auction at Sotheby’s
about February or March, 1929. In the catalogue it was described as having
belonged to Cardinal Beaufort and Henry VII, and is said to have belonged
to Joan of Arc. The ring is unquestionably of the period, that is, the first
third of the fifteenth century.”
It seems hopeless to attempt to verify the somewhat vague statements
made by Marion about the ring. Nevertheless, I think Mr. Bois’ experiment
was worth trying. It would have been interesting, for instance, if Marion
had said that the ring had belonged to a king or prince.
At Sitting No. 2, on Thursday, 18th January, 1934, Dr. Edgley Curnock
handed me a small, bent silver coin which, unknown to Marion, I wrapped in
several pieces of stiffish paper and, having put the little packet inside a plain,
white letter envelope, I sealed it up.
At 10.15 p.m. I handed Marion the sealed envelope, and asked him to
give his impressions.
I will now quote Miss Beenham’s notes: “ Mr. Soal hands Marion the
envelope. He is asked to give his impressions. Marion says it is something
which is valued. The person took great trouble. The person to whom it
belongs is very proud of it. It is a reward. It is connected with some act of
valour. It is like a star. Marion says that it may be in another form, but he
cannot express himself. He takes a pencil and draws a star on a piece of
paper.” Dr. Edgley Curnock then told the audience briefly that the object
was a coin which belonged originally to John Wesley. Associated with the
coin was a story which, however, Dr. Curnock does not believe. According
to this story, John Wesley who was rather superstitious, was out riding one
day and fell off his horse. This coin was in his pocket and when he picked
90
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
himself up not much the worse, he found the coin bent and ever afterwards
kept it as a souvenir.
In a letter dated 21st September, 1934, Dr. Edgley Curnock gave me
more detailed information about the history of the coin. The coin, which is a
fourpenny bit of the period of one of the Georges, has had its date worn off.
The coin was in the first instance given by John Wesley to an ancestor of
Dr. Curnock named Anne Edgley when she was a little girl. Since then, it
has remained in the family and finally came into Dr. Curnock’s possession,
since he is the only descendant bearing the name of Edgley. Dr. Curnock has
no idea as to how the coin was bent, but, personally, does not credit the
story of the horse.
It will be seen that Marion has said absolutely nothing that bears upon
the above history and the only correct statement is his remark that the object
“is something which is valued.” But judging from his statements: "It is a
reward. It is connected with some act of valour. It is like a star” , Marion
seems totally unaware that the object is a coin and probably thinks it is some
star-shaped medal or decoration won for bravery in the field. It must be
admitted that Marion has totally failed again to describe either the object or
its associations
At Sitting No. 17, on Friday, 16th March, 1934, Mr. Ellic Howe, un­
known to Marion, gave Mr. Dribbel a Russian rouble. At about 3.34 p.m.
Mr. Dribbel pushed the rouble quickly into Marion’s hand and, bending his
fingers over it, told him not to look, but to give his impressions. Marion held
the coin in his closed hand, and spoke in German. Mx. Dribbel wrote down
Marion’s statements in German as follows:
"Das war eine ziemlich schwere Zeit. Ein ganzes Leben hat sich
umgestellt. Dieser Mensch hat irgend eine neue Lebensform. In dem
früheren Kreis waren grosse Kämpfe und Verwüstungen)? Ziemlich
grosser, starker Mann, der irgend eine Anstellung gehabt hat in kaufmännis­
cher Art. Das Bedeutende ist, dass er zweimal sein Lebe beginnen musste.
Dieser Mensch lebt nicht mehr.” Mr. Howe, who had left the room before
Mr. Dribbel handed Marion the rouble, now returned. He read the German
and translated it into English, adding after each sentence a comment.
Marion’s statements with the comments made by Mr. Howe at the sitting are
given below.
Marion's Statement. Comment by Mr. Howe.
"This was a rather difficult period.” Russian Revolution and after.
effects.
"An entire life has been changed.”
"This person has some new type of life.”
"In the earlier sphere there was great conflict and
devastation. A fairly tall, strong man, earlier was a
big business man, who held some post of a com­
mercial nature. The significant thing is that he had
to begin life over again. This person is no longer
living."
Yes, both possessors.
Both of them.
Yes, banker and industrialist.
Correct for both owners.
In reply to some questions which I addressed to Mr. Ellic Howe, he sent me
the following information in a letter dated 19th September, 1934.
“The coin, which was a Russian rouble, dated 1899, had formerly
belonged to a Russian banker X, who gave it to his daughter Y. Before the
revolution X had been a business man who owned vast interests in Russia.
91
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
[This is Mr. Howe’s interpretation of the phrase “ Earlier was a big business
man.” ] The daughter Y gave Mr. Howe the rouble a week before she com­
mitted suicide in Paris in 1933. X had previously died of old age in 1930,
or thereabouts. Both father and daughter had lost their homes through the
revolution.”
Now it will be remembered that Marion, in his own admission, had
fought on the Russian front during the War. These roubles were in circula­
tion till 1918 at least and it is very probable, therefore, that he had seen such
coins. Though Mr. Dribbel pressed the coin quickly into his hand, we must
assume that Marion saw it and recognised it as a rouble of pre-revolution
days. Marion would then naturally think of the revolution and throw a cast
with the veiled phrase: “ It was a fairly difficult time” . The idea of a rich
man dispossessed of his home might next suggest itself. There would also
be a fair likelihood of the man being now dead, through his misfortunes and
sufferings in the Revolution. If the man had passed through the Revolution,
it would be safe to hazard the statements: “A whole lifetime had to be
changed,” and “Had to build up a new life” .
As Mr. Howe says in his letter: “ If Marion knew a rouble when he saw
one-then the story would come pat. It would fit most Russians I know. No
medium has ever given me really startling information about this coin.”
It would seem, therefore, that Marion’s statements might easily be
rational guesses based on his recognition of the coin. I should add that I
personally can take no responsibility for the experiment, as I was quite
unaware that any test was contemplated until I saw Mr. Dribbel press what
looked like a medal into Marion’s hand. But even if Marion had been handed
the coin in the dark, he might have recognised it by touch.
92
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION.
HE statisticalexperiments describedin Section I undoubtedlyshowthat
Marion has the power of rapidly locating small objects that have been
concealed in a room by an audience of about half a dozen persons who
know the hiding-place and whose bodily movements he is able to observe.
He succeeds likewise, in cases in which no actual object is hidden, in dis­
covering the imaginary hiding-place concentrated upon by the audience.
When an object is hidden, but no one present in the room is consciously
aware of the hiding-place, Marion fails absolutely to obtain any success
beyond what might be attributed to chance. Marion fails also in cases where
the audience, knowing the hiding-place and able to watch his movements,
are yet completely screened from his observation by a curtain or by thick
blankets. It would appear, therefore, that a vital condition for success is
that Marion should be able to watch the movements of some person or per­
sons who know where the object is hidden.
We have shown also that Marion succeeds when he is followed round the
room by a single person who knows the hiding-place, the remainder of the
audience being concealed from his view. It is probable, however, that he
will only succeed with a certain type of follower—a person of definitely motor
temperament—but more experiments are required to settle this point com­
pletely. In cases in which Marion is followed by a single agent, it is established
that the seeker does not rely necessarily upon changes in facial expression or
even upon head movements for his clues. The experiments with the “ Robot
Box” demonstrate with a high degree of probability that the movements of
walking of footsteps, etc., furnish the principal indicia in this case.
Our experiments with the "sentry-box” show that even with good
“ following” agents like Mr. A . Dribbell and Mr. H. S. Collins, Marion fails
in the case in which every part of the agent’s body is screened from his sight
and the agent is not allowed to walk, but is merely wheeled round the room.
We have shown further that Marion is able to succeed with a single agent who
is stationary, but whose whole body is concealed with the exception of the
head which itself is covered with a hood, through which the agent is able to
watch the seeker. In this case head-noddings most probably furnish the
clues.
The experiments would seem to emphasise the importance of the use of
a screen in all telepathic tests in which the percipient is required to choose an
object thought of by the agent from a group of five or six distinct alterna­
tives, e.g., as in the experiments of Dr. J. B. Rhine.
In Section II it is shown that Marion is able to recognise a new playing
card, that he has previously handled, when it has been mixed with several
other cards of identical make and design. The results strongly indicate that,
in this feat, he relies mainly upon his tactual sense and upon a study of the
contact which the card makes with the surface of the table. It is shown
93
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
definitely that the figure on the face of the card plays no part in the process of
recognition. He is similarly able to identify a stiff millboard card, which he
has been allowed to hold in the dark, by means of his sensitive touch. When
tactual and visual clues are completely ruled out, Marion succeeds no more
often than chance would predict. These experiments suggest a most serious
source of error in a great many of the card-guessing tests described by Miss
Ina Jephson and Dr. J. B. Rhine.
In Section III statistical and other experiments in telepathy and clair­
voyance are described. There is no reason to suppose that Marion possesses
the faculty of reading the contents of sealed envelopes or packages. Nor are
there any indications that he is able to divine numbers thought of by mem­
bers of the audience. When, however, the numbers are inscribed on cards
which Marion is able to manipulate in view of his audience, he may succeed
by using the methods described in Section I, i.e., by observing the reactions
of the audience. He fails similarly in guessing playing cards by genuine
telepathic means.
It is shown in Section IV that Marion’s claims to delineate the lives and
character of persons from an inspection of specimens of their handwriting
are without foundation. Marion, in fact, is a very poor graphologist, quite
apart from any supernormal considerations. He fails also to achieve any
unequivocal success in his “ psychometry” of objects handed to him by the
sitters.
94
APPENDIX.
L i s t o f S i t t e r s a t t h e T w e n t y - F i v e S e a n c e s H e l d i n J a n u a r y , F e b r u a r y , M a r c h '
M a y , J u n e a n d J u l y , 1934.
(Figures denote number of Sitting attended by the person indicated.)
1st Sitting
2nd Sitting
3rd Sitting
4th Sitting
5th Sitting
6th Sitting
7th Sitting
8th Sitting
9th Sitting
1Oth Sitting
11th Sitting
12th Sitting
13th Sitting
14th Sitting
15th Sitting
16th Sitting
17th Sitting
18th Sitting
19th Sitting
20th Sitting
21st Sitting
22nd Sitting
23rd Sitting
24th Sitting
25th Sitting
17th January, 1934.
18th January, 1934.
... 24th January, 1934.
... 25th January, 1934.
... 31st January, 1934.
1st February, 1934.
7th February, 1934.
8th February, 1934.
14th February, 1934.
16th February, 1934.
... 21st February, 1934.
23rd February, 1934.
... 28th February, 1934.
2nd March, 1934.
7th March, 1934.
9th March, 1934.
16th March, 1934.
23rd March, 1934.
27th March, 1934.
18th May, 1934.
15th June, 1934.
29th June, 1934.
6th July, 1934.
27th July, 1934.
28th July, 1934.
Adcock, Miss L., 6
Allsop, Mr. Ben, 2
Arnold-Foster, Mrs. H. C., 4
Balfour, Dr. Margaret, 6
Bective, Lady, 2
Bective, Lord, 2
Beenham, Miss Ethel, 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25
Bieber, Mr. Fritz, 20
Bois, Mr. H. G., 3, 4, 5, 9
Bronson, Mr. W., 6
Chance, Mr., 10
Chance, Mrs., 10
Chetham-Strode, Mr. W., 6
Collins, Mr. H. S., 2, 5, 7, 9, 11, 14, 15,
16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24,’ 25’
Coplestone-Boughey, Mrs., 4, 6
Cossor, Dr. J., 17
Culpin, Dr. Millais, 4
95
PRELIMINARY STUDIES OF A VAUDEVILLE TELEPATHIST
Curnock, Dr. J. Edgley, 2, 4
Curnock, Mrs. J. Edgley. 4
Dingwall, Dr. E. J., 15
Doulton, Mr. Peter, 2
Dribbel, Mr. Alex. L., 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 10,
11, 13, 15, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23
Dribbel, Mrs. Alex. L., 13
Dwyer, Mrs. K., 4
Fleming, Dr. Gordon, 14
Fleming, Mr. S. W., 14
Frick, Mrs. Winifred, 4
Giglio, Mr. E., 2
Goldney, Mr. A. Peel, 24
Goldney, Mrs. A. Peel, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7,
9, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 22,
23, 24, 25
Gwyn, Mr. W. J., 2
Hankey, Mrs. M., 2
Harris, Professor, 3
Hartridge, Professor, 3
Hewitt, Dr. J. A., 3
Howe, Mr. Ellic, 17, 18, 19, 20, 24
Joad, Mr. C. E. M., 15
Lambert, Mr. R. S., 4
Lambert, Mrs. R. S., 4
Lier, Mr. J. van, 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, It
Maitland-Woolf, Mr., 16
Mallous, Mrs. G., 2
Montague, Mrs. Amy, 6
Morton, Dr. Eva, 4
Paul, Miss D., 8
Payne, Dr. Sylvia M., 2
Price, Mr. Harry, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9„
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 21, 22, 24
Rampling-Rose, Major W., 2, 6
Richards, Mr. Barry, 2
Richards, Mrs. Henry, 1, 3, 5, 8, 9, 1L
Ridley, Dr. Frederick, 4
Sands, Lord, 8
Soal, Mr. S. G., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
21, 22, 23, 24, 25
Stewart, Miss M. A., 2
Tapper, Mr., 6
Tapper, Mrs., 6
Taylor, Mr. I. Grant, 12
Wagstaffe, Mrs. E. C., 6
Wilson, Mr. Rathmell, 16
96
