{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__rose_dawn___giant_daily_astrological_guide.pdf","mytitle":"Giant Daily Astrological Guide","mylang":"de"}
l\ose Baton
G I A N T
Batin Astrological (Sutbe
ROSE DAWN WISHES YOU 365 HAPPY PROSPEROUS DAYS
-------------------------- “ GOOD LUCK” AFFIRMATION FOR 1937---------------------------
J AFFIRM that in the days ahead I shall make my own luck. By being fully aware of all my abilities
about Astrology by reading Rose Dawn's Magazine, MODERN ASTROLOGY every month. I shall get
GEMINI
Have You Seen
ROSE DAWN’S
B E A U T I F U L
M A G A Z I N E
MODERN
ASTROLOGY
NOW ON SA LE
AT ALL LEADING
NEW S DEALERS
OR DIRECT FROM
R O S E D A W N
AN ALL ASTROLOGY MAGAZINE THAT APPEALS TO ALL PEOPLE WHO LIKE
TO THINK • AS FRESH AND NEW AS THE WORD “ MODERN” . AS UP-TO-
DATE AS NEXT YEAR’S NEWSPAPER • AS CAREFULLY PREPARED AS A
BRIDE ON HER WEDDING DAY • AS DEEP AS THE BOTTOMLESS OCEAN • AS
UNDERSTANDABLE AS THE “ A B C ’s” • AS USABLE AS MONEY • AS NEEDED
AS A SAFE HARBOR TO A SEAFARER ON A STORMY SEA • AS VALUABLE
AS A LARGE BANK BALANCE CREDITED TO YOUR NAME • SEND IN YOUR
SUBSCRIPTION TODAY.
V r O • • • ROSE D AW N’S MODERN ASTROLOGY M AGAZINE IS UNIQUE . . .
I H o SEND IN YOUR NAME NOW SO T H A T YOU W ILL GET THE PRES­
ENT ISSUE . . .
ONE FULL YEAR FOR TW O DOLLARS
SIX MONTHS TRIAL OFFER FOR ONE DOLLAR
MODERN ASTROLOGY M AGAZINE
Del Rio, Texas
Published Monthly Published Monthly
DAILY ASTROLOGICAL GUIDE
The following Daily Guide, Forecast and Analysis are written accord­
ing to m
y opinion of celestial aspects and indications. Thus m
y opinion
may not at a ll times conform to known ancient and modern text book rules
of Astrology. You w ill also note that I have added some new features to
this work which may prove interesting, instructive and helpful to you.
Central Standard Time is used, in this work. I f you liv e in Eastern
States, add one hour to time given. I f living in Mountain States sub­
tract one hour. I f in Pacific States, subtract two hours.
Because of numerous requests, I have continued to give youthe day by
day guide for 1937. I have endeavored to give you my best in this -work.
You, however, are the judge and must consider every statement in this
work as being m
y personal opinion based upon my study, patient research
and careful observation of colostial indications and a study of Natural
Laws which govern the Universe and L ife. Thoro is nothing supernatural,
mysterious or d iffic u lt to understand in this work. There is no occasion
for any superstition in the natural events of every day l i f e .
The information given in this work requires your careful attention
and analysis. I t is up to you to make the most of what I havegiven. I f
the indications show, a given day, hour or period is good, i t is up to
you to wisely direct your thought, attention and effort in making the
most of the good aspects, regardless of your position or station in l i f e
You must consider that the "Stars" indicate, but do not compel any event
or activity to take place. You, and you alone are responsible for your
thoughts and actions. I t is true that a l l of us have inherent tendencies
to which we give way, but even this is under the direction of our v/ill
and consciousness. This work can only serve you as a guide to your pos­
s ib ilit ie s and prospects. It can only point out to you the indications
which are in operation. Your reaction to these indications depends upon
yourself. Only you can direct your thought and action.
I t is well within your rational a b ility and power to make the most
of the good aspects and indications. There is a time and season for
everything under the Sun. This work endeavors to point out your more
favorable and unfavorable days and periods, so that you may v/isely pre­
pare yourself accordingly. You should do a ll you can to advance yourself
and affairs under good aspects. When aspects are unfavorable; it is ad­
visable to proceed cautiously, patiently and thoughtfully in a l l affairs
By so doing you w ill wisely avoid a l l possible mishaps and d ifficu lties
which arise as the result of carelessness, haste, impulsive decisions
and actions. Use your v/ill and determination to curb sensitiveness,
temper, moodiness, e tc ., and a ll w ill be well. A ll of our unpleasant
experiences and accidents come upon us in an instant, during which we
are not thoroly aware of a l l that is going on around and about us. Study
the daily guide carefully, also the other features, so you w ill be able
to derive the greatest benefit from this work and create the conditions
for yourself which brings greater success and happiness.
ROSE D
AW
N Copyright 1936 THE AUTHOR„
GEMINI i.
Your birthtime Shows that you cores under the indications of the Airy
sign9 Gemini9 third sign of the Zodiac; ruled by Mercury. The following
analysis is my personal opinion of your sign, judged accordingly.
llo o n ¡ n A t f U Z - r i l L S
PERSONALITY, CHARACTER, TEMPERAMENT. You are affectionate, courteous
and diplomatic in disposition; also inclined to be changeable and im­
pulsive at times, particularly in a mental sense; which often causes
you to be misunderstood by others. Your moodiness is due to your sensi­
tiveness and acquiring mentality and your reactions to your thoughts.
You are inclined to liv e and reflect your every thought. There are times
when you are generous and others when you are not. Furthermore, you are
inclined to be talkative altho this is no reflection on your character
as your mind is active and naturally requires expression in speech.
Your personality is attractive and magnetic, but you may enhance its
value by the cultivation of tact, especially on occasions when you are
more or less inclined to be moody and sensitive. You should also cu lti­
vate and keep your naturally charming and pleasing manners. You are
fond of being looked up to as an authority in some capacity, so you may
as well liv e up to your desire in reality. Under normal circumstances
you w ill be well liked by a l l you meet and by proper effort you w ill
draw and influence others to mutual advantage by your powers of speech
and writing. To do so enhances your prospects of attainment in l i f e .
MENTALITY, SUBCONSCIOUS MENTATION, INTUITION, INSPIRATION. You have
an interesting and active mind. Indications show w it, originality of
thought, humor, changeability, vivid imagination and forcefulness of
thought in speech when you so desire. You possess quick perception. I f
properly developed, you have good subconscious mentation, intuition and
foresight. It is unfortunate i f you permit moods to influence your bet­
ter judgment as this deprives you of the proper perspective and d i f f i ­
culties may follow. You w ill do well to develop your latent qualities
of determination, persistency and patience. You are stubborn to a de­
gree, but not always as persistent as you should be. I t is advisable to
cultivate tho latter and use i t to your personal advantage in your e f ­
forts to attain success. Avoid starting things and not finishing them.
Your imagination often causes you to desire to liv e a picturesque
and romantic form o f existence which is impractical, herein may lie one
of your greatest d iffic u ltie s . You are an idealist and when your ideals
are shattered you are disillusioned. L ife seems to hold nothing for you
for the time being and you are depressed. Give your imagination the
proper training and its practical value v/ill enhance your prospects of
success in your efforts. Use its energy for constructive visualization
and planning. You may find i t to your personal advantage to use its en­
ergy in matters connected v/ith your practical, every day affairs.
I f you have given yourself, or w ill give yourself the proper mental
training you w ill find that your subconscious mind w ill furnish you with
much useful material; also with inspirational ideas and foresight. You
are capable of thinking up original ideas, but these must be acted upon
before you can realize any practical value from them. People of your
sign who are successful in writings apply their .thoughts constructively.
SEtóIMI S■
HEALTH AND DI1T. Indicallous sr.o:t s. somewhat ¡sensitive ^nd nervous
temperament which unler,& co n ti^ ll^ i, reacts quickly to conditions* cir-
cinKst&aeefl and environment. I t rvJ es- the chc3t, lungs g hands and anes.
These parts aro moot rapt to bo affected i f yr.u do not axarcissw &uui
care of your health. I t is advisaI l o r.ot to overwork body or Elina us
this appears to tax the norvos and mukos you ìrrita b lo , j&
o caro in
your diet and eat wholesoma and nervò strangthaning foods. Avcia ox-
pocurc to coldCj tako i^irodtato caro of thorn aft,or contracted. Plenty
o f fresh air arie sunshine are sssimlial to yes. Pertharmore s sloop in
well v o:*tilo -
000. rooms 5 novor ar/nfino youroolf to stuffy quart ore, alt Ho
soma people would to able tc withstand i t , ono of ycur tornporanant
could not dc so. Avoid mental depression and worry* wiior you arò detras­
se;! be sure to usa good judpnent in diet* os you are quite raenta.3 *r-i
inclined to react to such stimulus. In case of illness consult g.vwi mod-
icftl authority} for l i f s is too precious t c be tampersc v/itn.
R0Ic
A:1CE3 LOVE AND PLEASURES. You are aansiLiva, affectionate, tender
o.r.rl refined in yor.r invs m iu rs , but your affection and mild passion
arc contingent uooa your mental rnoedo. You uro gao^blo of being ^.rra
and sweet, or cool and indifferent ►I f ycur m
ir.rl is very active > you
show indifference and may oe ni3understood by or.3 who loves yeut iVhon
you destra«, you car. be exceediasly expressive and emotional. Hero than
onj a ffa ir of iho heart is indicated. Indications shew you care for
many people from a mental rather than physical point of view, tnia nfLon
causes ct.iers to think you flirta tio u s and flig h ty , when iri reality* you
fl’-R irtfir^sr.od only in rental ooiirpnuinnship. You are quitQ joaloue of
th9 object of your affection and your love can be cooler! by continual
misunderstandings in mental l i f o . You have unusual ideals relative tc
your love l i f o and romance in which imagination plays an jmpnrt,»r I. part.
You require a mental, physical and. idywl bulanc« !..u your love lifo#
Indications show that you aro fond of pleasures, attandiufe theaterst
plays and take aa active interest in sports, mo+r-r"ng? anittl’tiiinnientS
ar.d r id in g . Ilnlftss t.haflfi ars indulged-ir. tc axcess, they ars beneficial*
you also find pleasure and whoiocomo rolaxrati on in mild a.xercis©s.
MAR3IA&3 And ALLJANu
SS. Indications point to more than one outstand­
ing love u
.ffb.ii’ or iimi-ria&u in lifu - Thus i t is -hat ycu should exorcinn
r 0od j*;.dgreont in the salection o f your l i f e ' s m :e . I t ? di f f i 21.It in
this analysis tc stats whom you should or 3hcu!d not marry, however, the
types indicated by the following signs appeal tc yoiii A.ria5, Leo, Librs,
Aquarius and your own sign. These typoo of tho .aoutal and balanced phy­
sical and masnetic qualities appear to t lo r i in with your nature 1 You
have something in com
m
on wits types indicated by virgo 5 ¿S&ftittarius *
Ir.uruc and Canoor, but contest« with !hc.m arc- not alv^ys harmonious. Ym*r
wunsi ¡.ivu luvu nature uq-liras u
i_*j j f an afj’eaVionsite and rofinod diDpO
3 it ion, so by selecting tiia prooer typo of nave, l i f o takes a. brighter
aspect and your lava acts s.s a stimulus fo r groator acconiFlihhmnntE. Trio
true purpose o f marriage is that of love, harmony and ins pi ratio a !»u go
forward and upward, one with another. A ccmpariser, cf birth charts prove
interesting for i t ravaals facts necessary fer & happy narria&tj.
GEMINI 3.
CHILDREN. Indications give promise' of very few in the course of l i f e ,
however, this cannot be given as beipg exact in this general analysis.
You possess an intense love fo r children and altho your parental love is
very devoted, you are at times, c r itic a l. Children born under your sign
are prone to be 3omewhat nervously inclined and mentally active. Proper
training and education give children a background for future success so
see that your loved ones receive their just rights.
DOMESTIC AFFAIRS AND H
O
M
E LIFE. I t appears you have a somewhat c r i t i ­
cal nature regarding your home l i f e . You wish to have everything just so
and you are inclined to be irrita b le i f they are not as you desire. You
are quite sensitive in your reaction to home surroundings and a moderate
amount of consideration for others on your part in this respect w ill
tend to make your home l i f e happier. Since your active mind must feel
expression, why not make i t constructive and harmonious to the mutual
happiness of a ll. I t is true you do not always enjoy the mental compan­
ionship in domestic l i f e as you desire but this should not cause you to
divert your mental energy into useless argument. The changeability of
your mind makes i t evident that you become bored with the sameness of
things and you do not like to liv e in one place too long at a time. This
state o f a ffairs naturally arises from your active and inquiring mind.
Thus i t is that a vacation or a few days away from home surroundings ap­
pear to do a great amount of good and cause you to be more or less con­
tent until the next period of restlessness asserts i t s e l f . People of a
fixed nature are unaffected by these things and therefore cannot under­
stand why one of your temperament desires to seek r e lie f from familiar
surroundings. Confinement has no appeal to you.
VOCATION, BUSINESS, PROFESSION AND PARTNERSHIPS. You enjoy the type
of work which gives you the greatest mental expression, your mind being
of a versatile and adaptable nature fits you for many kinds of work. You
possess a b ility for writing, journalism, legal and clerical work, music,
art, teaching, lecturing, traveling, salesmanship, inventing, mechanic,
electrical and construction engineering, aviation, secretarial or other
such work which affords expression to mind and body.’ When working, you
apply yourself e ffic ie n tly and industriously until you become bored, it
is advisable to overcomo this tendency. Often you desire to follow more
than one line, or have a hobby apart from your regular routine activity.
You have the natural a b ility of rising in your work, business or profes­
sion. Often men of this sign prefer to follow railroading or other such
lines which afford opportunity for travel, etc. Both men and women are
usually good promoters, have acting and musical a b ility , dancing, etc.
Hov/ever, much depends upon positions of planets at time of your birth
as well as training during childhood and youth.
When in business for s e lf, people of your sign are capable of man­
aging stores, print shops, private schools or tutoring, transportation
lines, electrica l or machine shops and messenger service. In partner­
ships, you are inclined to be independent, desiring the upper hand,
which is lik ely to cause dissension. However, i f you are thoughtful and
considerate you can prosper in such ventures. Your apparent understand­
ing of human nature enables you to meet the public with fa ir success.
GEMINI 4.
FINANC.CS y INVESTMENTS AND SPECULATION* Your financial circumstances,
.like your moods , vary but the general indications are rather good. Your
earning capacity is good but you are inclined to be somewhat of a spend­
er and more often than not spend your money for things which lend a tem­
porary rather than a permanent benefit. You are fond o f dress and finery
but of course, this proves to be to your personal advantage, however, it
is advisable to be reasonably moderate in expenditures. Regarding in ­
vestments , you w ill do well to invest in real properties under normal
circumstances, or in large corporation or government bonds. You have a
somewhat speculative nature and are inclined to taking chances in dubi­
ous propositions at times. You have no desire to invest in-slow maturing
ventures for you like a quick turnover but my advice is to carefully
study your chances in a l l speculative deals. Financially, some degree of
success may come from dealing with automobiles and other such things
which have to do with transportation, aviation and communications, etc.
Your general financial prospects during your lifetime are favorable. Be
conservative and insure independence.
TRAVELS. Ycur restless nature gives you the desire for travel and no
doubt you w ill appease this longing considerably during your lifetime.
FRIENDSHIPS AND SOCIAL LIFE. Indications show that you w ill have
many interesting acquaintances in your l i f e and a few real and loyal
friends. Your choice leans toward the intellectual and mental types of
associates and friends for you receive the most enjoyment from them. I t
is evident that you w ill always command more or less, the respect and
admiration of those friends. A lcve of social l i f e and desire to mingle
with people is apparent, your social standing appears favorable.
HANDICAPS AND OBSTACLES. Your greatest handicap in l i f e may or may
not b9 the fact that you are somewhat moody at times and show an in­
clination toward.selfishness and desire to have your own way. Indepen­
dence of nature is to be commended but its a ctivity should be construc­
tive. Avoid worry, peevishness and ir r it a b ilit y over l i t t l e things for
such detract from your otherwise attractive personality and hinder your
progress for success. Endeavor to cultivate patience and persistency.
PROSPECTS OF SUCCESS IN LIFE. Cultivate the more hopeful qualities
cf your mind5 you have them as well as the a b ility to apply your mental
energy. Your success lies in the direction of your application of the
positive and favorable qualities and controlling the negative. Take
advantage of your natural creative a b ility . Study such subjects as w ill
enhance your prospects for future success and endeavor to build a state
cf self-reliance within your nature. Learn the art of planning ahead.
Make the past efforts stepping stones to a greater and mere successful
future. Exert every effort to develop your intuition and natural fore­
sight for you w ill find this enhances your prospects of attainment in
l i f e . I t is up to you tc apply your God-given faculties and apply your
s e lf toward making the most out of your l i f e and its p ossibilities.
Love, friends, harmony and happiness indicated. I trust you have found
this analysis helpful and that i t w ill enlighten you in such manner
so that you w ill be able to find more contentment and happiness.
GEMINIj JANUARY 1937.
1 Moon in Virgo. A day of miner unfavorable aspects to your sign, use
good judgment in a ll a ffa irs , avoid haste in travels, also excesses,
2 Restless and depressive, particularly during the morning hours.
3 Sunday. Moon in Libra. Favorable to your sign. A sociable, friendly
day. Also favors affairs of love, marriage, personal plans, etc.
4 Favorable in personal and routine a ffa irs . Attend to important work
or business before 4 PM. /rite, deal with others, make improvements.
5 Moon in Scorpio during late afternoon. Negative. Attend to important
daily affairs before 3 PM. Abide quiet in personal affairs late PM.
6 Negative, but good in routine and minor financial matters, business.
7 Similar to above. Make improvements in work and domestic a ffa irs .
8 Moon in Sagittarius, opposition aspects preside, avoid sensitiveness
in personal affairs or dealings with .relativos. Attend to important
writings, talk ovGr cooperative plans and ideas.. Rolax in evening.
9 As above, however, minor depressive aspects also rule the day.
10 Sunday. Moon in Capricorn during evening. Aspects negative t o your
sign, however, they are good fo r spiritu al and occult studies.
11 A somewhat routine day, make adjustments in affairs of work, hom
o
or business. For sorao a spoculativo day in financial matters.
12 Good in matters of business, employment, dealing with relatives, etc.
13 Moon in Aquarius. Aspects favorable to your sign. Attend to matters
of importance during day. Evening hours pleasurable and sociable.
14 Favorable and important, do a l l you can to advance your welfare. Be­
gin new ventures, deal with inportp,nt people, start travels, etc.
15 Moon in Pisces. Unfavorable in personal matters, but good in work,
business and finances, however, avoid misunderstandings at home.
16 Unfavorable. Use good judgment in a l l a ffa irs . Take care of health.
17 Sunday. Moon in Aries about noon. A friendly and sociable day. I t
is up to you to endeavor to enjoy the day wisely and well.
18 A day of minor beneficial indications. Wisely promote ycur interests.
19 Moon in Taurus in afternoon. Negative to your. sign. Attend to delay­
ed matters; take care o f health, avoid unnecessary travels.
20 A negative day. Attend to daily duties patiently. Avoid overdoing.
21 Aspects show l i t t l e . Avoid unnecessary a ctivities and excitement.
22 Moon in your birthsign. Favors personal a ffa irs , writings, v/orking
out new ideas, plans, making changes, moves, beginning travels, etc.
23 Favorable and active in personal and routine matters. Afternoon and
evening favors social matters, pleasures, dancing, theaters, etc.
24 Sunday. Moon in Cancer. Negative to your sign. A somewhat quiet day.
25 Negative in porsonal a ffa irs , but good in business, employment, etc.
26 Moon in Leo. Favorable. Push a ffa ir s , attend to important writings,
deal with others, wisely advance interests, carry out plans, etc.
27 As above. Make changes and improvements in a ffa irs, negin now pro­
jects, start extensive travels; also favors romance and marriage.
28 Moon in Virgo. Unfavorable for some, use cars in business or work,
take reasonable care of health, avoid excitement, overdoing, etc.
29 Similar t o above. Use good judgment, avoid depression, sensitiveness.
30 Moon in Libra during afternoon. Attend to routine duties before noon,
rest of day favors porsonal, social and pleasurable a c tiv itie s .
31 Sunday. Favorable in personal a ffa irs , travels, v is its , romance, etc.
Also a good day to discuss your plans and ideas with friends, writo,
attend to delayed correspondence. Afternoon and evening pleasurable.
GEMINI, FEBRUARY 1937.
1 Moon in Libra. Favorable, attend to important routine matters during
day, Writes carry out plans, make changes, begin new ventures, start
extensive travels, seek promotion, etc* PM hours pleasurable.
2 Moon in Scorpio. Negative, but f a ir ly good in minor finances, buying
personal effects, adjustment of accounts, employment, etc.
3 Attend to routine duties patiently, avoid unnecessary a c tiv itie s .
■
* ^con i *
1 Sagittarius during afternoon. Clear up important personal and
routine matters before 2 PM. Thereafter avoid sensitiveness, inharmony.
5 Unfavorable fo r some, guard against arguments, inharmony, impulsive
decisions and actions; be patient, meditative. Use care in travels.
6 Uncertain and restless. Use good judgment in a l l daily a ctivities.
7 Sunday. Moon in Capricorn. Devote the day to personal adjustment and
improvement. Give thought to your Creator and yourself.
8 A somewhat routine day. AM hours favorable for soiao in financial and
speculative matters. Make improvements in work, business, homo l i f o .
9 Moon in Aquarius. Attend to important routine and personal matters
a fter 1C AM. Evening favors theaters, friendships, romance, etc.
10 Favorable and active, however, be conservative in expenditures, push
routino and business matters, cloar up delayed matters. PM ploasurablo.
11 Moon in Pisces during afternoon. Attend to important matters before
1 PM. Thereafter, abide quiet, avoid unnecessary a c t iv it ie s , travel.
12 Unfavorable fo r some, use good judgment in a l l a ffa irs , care in diet,
daily travels, health matters, also in your domestic a ffa irs , etc.
13 Moon in Aries during evening. Unfavorable during day. Evening hours
favor personal a ffa irs , friendships, theaters, pleasures, romance.
14 Sunday. Aspects favorable. Endeavor to enjoy the day with friends
and loved ones. Also a good day for study, meditation, planning.
15 Continues favorable, wisely endeavor to advance your interests, make
improvements in work or business, increase knowledge and understanding.
16 Moon in Taurus. Negative to your sign. Take care o f health, avoid a ll
unnecessary a c tiv itie s , overdoing. Relax and rest during evening hours.
17 As above. Be studious, meditative, make plans fo r personal improvement.
18 Moon in your sign. Favorable in personal and routine matters, carry out
plans, make important changes, begin new ventures, advance interests.
19 Continues favorable. Make the most of the good aspects. Progress'.
20 Moon in Cancer. Negative, be conservative, avoid impulsive decisions.
21 Sunday. Unimportant, hence endeavor to occupy your time wisely. Devote
your time to study, meditation, intellectual and ideal advancement.
22 Moon in Leo. Favorable in mental matters, writings, minor changes,
working out new ideas, beginning travels, new ventures, etc.
23 Continues favorable. Seek interviews, deal with others, seek new work,
advertise, expand business, etc. Also favors love, romance, marriage.
24 Moon-in Virgo during afternoon. Clear up important personal and daily
a ffairs before 2:30 PM. Thereafter, avoid sensitiveness, inharmony.
25 Unfavorable for some, use good judgment in a ll daily a c tivities, do
not overdo, avoid impulsive decisions, promises, actions, travels.
26 As above. Avoid moodiness, misunderstandings in domestic a ffa irs.
27 Moon in Libra. Favorable in personal and routine a ffa irs . Attend to
important and delayed matters during AM hours. Afternoon and evening
favor personal and social a ffa irs , v is its , minor travels, pleasures.
28 Sunday. Favorable in personal and social matters, enjoy the day with
friends and loved ones. Attend to personal correspondence, etc.
GEMINI s M
ARCH 1937.
1 Moon in Scorpio. Good in minor routing matters, employment, business,
making minor domestic changes, improvements, dealing with others.
2 Negative in personal and social matters, but good as above, also make
plans for improvements, repairs on buildings, lands farms, etc.
3 As above, altho some find this a profitable day in financial matters.
4 Moon in Sagittarius. Doubtful, avoid contention in family a ffa irs, be
patient, take good care of health, avoid ir r it a b ilit y , moodiness, etc.
5 Similar to above, avoid rash promises, unwise statements, writings.
6 Moon in Capricorn. Negative in personal a ffa ir s , but active in work,
business, buying of personal effects, adjustment of accounts, credits.
7 Sunday. A good day fo r reading, study, making future plans, review of
your plans, ideas, etc. Your success is born fir s t within your mind.
S Moon in Aquarius in PM. However, the day favors business, employment,
finances, new work, contracts, etc. A speculative day. PM pleasurable.
9 Favorable in personal and routine matters. Attend to writings, signing
important papers, make changes, carry out important plans, travel.
10 Favorable fo r most a ffairs until 7 PM, thereafter, be patient, cautious.
11 Moon in Pisces. Unfavorable for some in domestic and family matters,
but good for others in business, employment, minor finances, etc.
12 Unfavorable and depressive, take care of health, avoid inharmony, etc.
13 Moon in Aries, Favorable in minor personal a ffa irs , writings, travels,
changes, moves, etc. Evening favors social and romantic matters.
14 Sunday. Favorable in personal and social matters, v is its , interviews,
writings, correspondence, attending lectures, church or theaters.
15 Moon in Taurus. Attend to routine duties, avoid overdoing. Rest in PM.
16 Negative, but favors meditation, thinking over new ideas, plans, etc.
17 Moon in your sign. Active, but use care in travels during morning.
Attend to important matters during afternoon. PM pleasurable.
18 Favorable for most affairs during day, push business, attend to a ll
important matters, etc. A fter 8 PM avoid a l l unnecessary a ctivities.
19 Moon in Cancer. Negative in personal a ffa irs , but active in routine
matters, attend to buying of personal effects, necessities, etc.
20 Be conservative in money matters, avoid overdoing, restlessness, etc.
21 Sunday. Moon in Leo. Favors mental matters, studies, writings, minor
travels, changes, interviews, friendships, affairs of love, marriage.
22 Favorable in personal and routine matters, carry out plans, begin new
projects, write, prepare advertising, push business, employment, etc.
23 Continues favorable until 8 PM, thereafter, avoid haste, ir r it a b ilit y ,
use care in travel, be guarded in statements, promises, signing papers.
24 Moon in Virgo. Unfavorable and irrita tin g. Avoid unwise decisions, be
conservative in finances, use care j,n daily travels, health matters.
25 Similar to above. Be patient, avoid haste,unwise promises, writings.
26 Moon in Libra. Favorable. Attend to delayed matters, writings, deal
with important people, begin new projects, travels. PM pleasurable.
27 As above, also favors a ffairs of love, engagement, marriage. Wind up
business and work during day. Enjoy the evening with friends, etc.
28 Sunday. Moon in Scorpio in PM. Favorable until 6 PM. Relax thereafter.
29 Abide quiet in social and romantic matters, devote thought, attention
and time to routine a ffa irs , improvements in home, lands, property.
30 As abov9 , also favorable for some in money matters, business, sale of
personal and real property, buying clothing, etc. A speculative day.
31 Moon in Sagittarius. Unfavorable, irrita tin g . Be patient, thoughtful.
GEMINI, APRIL 1937.
1 Moon in Sagittarius. Unfavorable. Contentious , avoid disputes in a ll
personal matters, however, push business, work, creative writings.
2 Moon in Capricorn 6;13 PM. Avoid family d iffic u ltie s , good for taking
up matters with friends or associates, discuss business, work, ideas.
3 Forenoon favors occupational matters, rest of day negative. Be patient.
4 Sunday. Good in family, social and spiritual matters. Read, study, etc.
5 Moon in Aquarius 4s38 AM. Active, favorable in personal and daily a f ­
fa irs , attend to important matters during day. Evening sociable.
6 As above, also favors writings, travels, carrying out plans, starting
new ventures, dealing with others, etc. PM sociable and pleasurable.
7 Moon in Pisces 10s55 AM. Attend to important matters before 11 AM.
Thereafter, be patient, use good judgment in a ll daily a c tivities.
8 Unfavorable, use care in travels, writings, signing papers, take good
care of health, avoid misunderstandings in family a ffa irs, romance *
9 Moon in Aries l i 25 PM. Forenoon uncertain. Attend to important affairs
during afternoon. PM favors courtship, romance, theaters, friends.
1C Favorable in personal and daily a ffa irs. Wind up business, then enjoy
the day with friends, relatives or loved ones. Good in minor travels.
11 Sunday. Moon in Taurus Is 39 PM. A day of meditation, analysis of self
and future p ossibilities. Read, study, relax. Strive for self-improve­
ment, increase in knowledge, wisdom and understanding. Forge ahead!
12 Attend to daily duties patiently, use care in travels, avoid haste.
13 Moon in your sign 1;36 PM
. Day favors routine a ffa irs , business, buy­
ing, sellin g, making wise investments in business, work, advertising.
Evening favors friends, v is its , romance, minor travels, theater, etc.
14 A day of ups and downs, avoid ir r it a b ilit y , impulsive decisions, use
care in ’writings , making promises and in daily travels , motoring.
15 Moon in Cancer 2; 50 PM. A day of perplexities. Avoid impulsiveness,
temper, haste. Be cautious and conservative. Avoid unwise statements.
16 Doubtful, avoid speculative ventures, impulsive expenditures, etc.
17 Moon in Leo 7s16 PM
. A day of ups and downs, guard against temper,
i r r i t a b i l i t y , overdoing. Evening hours are pleasurable and sociable.
18 Sunday. Friendly, sociable and romantic. Enjoy the day wisely.
19 Active and favorable in personal and daily a ffa irs. Push business,
work, carry out important plans, write, deal with others, etc.
20 Moon in Virgo 2s18 AM. Unfavorable. Use care in a l l daily a ffa irs.
21 Doubtful, be patient, avoid inharmony, use care in travels, work.
22 Moon in Libra 11s 53 AM. Unfavorable until noon. Attend to important
affairs during afternoon. Evening hours pleasurable, romantic, etc.
23 Favorable and active in routine and personal a ffa irs. Push business,
work during day. Evening favors friends, courtship, romance^
24 Continues favorable. Also favors travels, changes, sports, etc.
25 Sunday. Moon in Scorpio. Negative. Wisely make the most o f your time.
26 A routine day. Patiently attend to daily duties, be conservative, do
not overdo, be reasonably cautious in travels and health matters.
27 Moon in Sagittarius 0;C5 noon. Attend to delayed matters during fore­
noon. Deal with elders, employers, professional people. Relax in PM
.
28 Doubtful. Avoid restlessness, inharmony, use care in travels, avoid
hasty acts , statements and promises. Be conservative in finances.
29 Good only in matters pertaining tc daily work or business, uncertain
in personal and family matters, avoid misunderstandings, etc.
30 Moon in Capricorn 0;56 AM. An active day in routine a ffa irs, business.
GEMINI, M
AY 1937
1* Moon in Capriccm© Good in minor matters pertaining tc business, work,
buying, dealing with merchants, adjusting accounts, etc. Relax in PM.
2. Sunday. Moon in Aquarius 0:05 Noon. Favorable in personal and social
matters, also in matters o f love, romance, marriage, travels, etc.
3. Favorable. Push business, advertise, write, carry out plans, begin
new v/ork, projects, make changes, start extensive travels, etc.
4. Moon in Pisces 7:51 PM. Favorable for most a ffa irs until 8 PM. Push
business during day® Read, study, meditate and relax curing evening.
5. Unfavorable. Avoid inhamony, impulsive decisions, premises, acts.
6 . Moon in Aries 11:53 PM. Uncertain for some in family matters, but do
a ll possible tc promote business, close Important contracts, deals.
7. Favorable in personal and routine matters, carry out ideas, plans,
make beneficial changes, moves, begin new projects. PM pleasurable.
8 . Continues favorable in personal and routine matters, but be very
conservative in a l l important financial transactions this day.
9. Sunday. Moon in Taurus 0:29 AM. Devote much of your time to study
and meditation for self-improvement. Use care in travels, motoring.
10. Moon in your sign 11:57 PM. Attend to daily duties patiently, avoid
overdoing, use good judgment in diet, daily travels, health matters.
11. Favorable and active, do a ll you can to get matters aejusted, make
improvement in daily work, business, around home, on lands, etc.
i.2. Continues favorable. Push a ffa irs . Indications also good in matters
of writings, extensive travels, love, engagement and marriage®
13. Moon in Cancer 0:03 AM. Abide quite in personal a ffa irs , romance, but
push business, deal with merchants, bankers, adjust accounts, etc.
14. Similar to above. Make improvements around home, on lands, gardens.
i t . Moon in Leo 2*30 AM. Favorable. Wind up business during day. Evening
favors friendship, recreation, week-end travels, entertainments, etc.
16. Sunday® Favors personal, romantic, social a ffa irs , travels, etc.
17. Moon in Virgo 8:21 AM, Unfavorable for some in family matters, avoid
inharmony, use good judgment in daily travels and work, avoid haste.
18. Similar to above, but good for some in dealing with others away from
immediate family circumstances. Adjust delayed accounts, etc.
19. Moon in Libra 5:38 PM. Favors important routine and financial matters
during day. Evening favors social and personal a ffa irs , recreation.
20. Favorable in personal and routine a ffa irs , work out new ideas, plans,
deal with important people, start new ventures, work, travels, etc.
21. Variable. Be conservative in expenditures, but promote business.
22. Moon in Scorpio 5:18 AM. A day o f ups and downs, use care in travels,
avoid haste, overdoing, excitement, be patient, meditative in PM.
23. Sunday. Changeable. Use good judgment in a l l a c tiv itie s , avoid haste.
24. Moon in Sagittarius 6:10 PM. Attend to important routine matters,
contracts e tc ., before 2 PM, thereafter, take things easily.
25. Unfavorable for some. Use good judgment, avoid haste, inharmony, etc.
26. A day of ups and downs, guard against impulsive decisions and acts.
27. Moon in Capricorn 6:54 AM
® Attend to daily duties patiently. Rest in
PM
® Devote some time to study, review of your problems, etc.
28. Abide quiet in personal and love matters, but wisely push business.
I'j, Moon in Aquarius 6*10 PM, Abide quiet in personal a ffairs during day,
however, close important business deals. Evening hours recreational.
30. Sunday. Favors personal, social, romantic and recreational matters.
bl. Favorable, push business, work, carry out plans, begin new ventures.
GEMINI, JUNE 1937.
I . Moon in Pisces 2:56 AM. Uncertain fo r personal and social a ffa irs , but
good in routine a ffa irs , business, employment, buying, credits.
2* Unfavorable, use good judgment in a l l a ffa irs . Read, relax during PM*
3. Moon in Aries 8:20 AM. Favorable. Attend to delayed matters, carry
out new ideas, begin new projects, etc. PM favors friends, romance.
4. Push business, make changes, begin extensive travels. Write, deal
with others, sign important papers, contracts, etc. PM pleasurable*
5. Moon in Taurus 10:34 AM. be conservative in money matters, buying,^
but endeavor to adjust delayed accounts* Study, meditate during PM
*
6 . Sunday. Devote the day to helping yourself and others by logical and
wise discussions o f future prospects. Review your plans, etc.
7. Moon in your sign 10;46 AM. Favorable. Push important matters, begin
new ventures, work, enter into business for s e lf, make plans^thereof.
8 . Continues favorable* Write, seek interviews, deal with important or
professional people, carry out plans for expansion, improvements.
9. Moon in Cancer 10:33 AM. A day of minor ups and downs, particularly
in personal a ffa irs . Be conservative in money matters, buying.
10, Good in routine, business and financial matters. Make improvements
in home, in work or business and on real property, etc. Rest in PM.
I I . Moon in Loo 11:43 AM* Favorable for most a ffa irs after 11 AM. Write,
carry out plans, attend sales, deal with merchants. PM pleasurable•
12. Favorable in personal and routine a ffa irs . Afternoon and evening
favors recreation, sports, minor travels, a ffa irs of love, marriage.
13. Sunday. Moon in Virgo 4:07 Pm. Continues favorable. Enjoy the day
with friends and loved one. Also a good day to make future plans, ezc.
14. Unfavorable fo r some, avoid personal inhannony, but do a ll you can to
make improvements in work, business and around home, on lands, etc.
15. As above. However, good fo r some in financial matters, work, business.
16. Moon in Libra 0:11 AM. Favorable fo r most a ffairs a fte r 10 AM. But be
conservative in financial matters, PM hours social, pleasurable, etc.
17. Favorable in minor personal and routine matters, deal with others.
18. Moon in Scorpio 11:32 AM. Be conservative in money matters, take good
care of health, be cautious in writings, daily travels. Rest in PM.
19. Doubtful. Avoid nervousness, haste, ir r it a b ilit y . Be conservative.
20. Sunday. Favors minor personal and social matters, also studies, plans.
21. Moon in Sagittarius 0:24 AM. Unfavorable fo r some in personal a ffa irs,
but good for dealing with others, interviews, cooperative activities.^
22. Unfavorable. Use care in writings, daily work and travels. Rest in PM.
23. Moon in Capricorn C:56 PM. Attend to daily work patiently. Use care
in money matters, daily travels, writings. Study, make plans in PM.
24. Abide quite in personal, social a ffa irs , but push business and work.
25. Moon in Aquarius 11:52 PM. Indications favor routine a ffa ir s , business
and finances. Wisely attend to problems of improvement, expansion.
26. Favorable in personal and routine a ffa irs ; also travels, recreation,
sports, week-end parties, romance, marriage, theaters, etc.
27. Sunday. Aspects continue good, but use care in motoring and sports.
23. Moon in Piscos 8:36 AM. Abide quiet in personal a ffa irs , devote time
and thought to routine a ffa irs , employment. Make improvements in home.
29. Unfavorable for some in personal matters, avoid inharmony, but carry
out plans, ideas in connection with work or business. Read, relax PM.
30. Moon in Arios 1:01 PM. Push important business matters before noon.
Evening hours favor social, personal, romantic a ffa irs , theater, etc.
GEMINI, JULY 1937.
1 .
2 .
3.
4 .
5 .
6 .
7.
8 .
9 .
10,
11.
1 2 .
1 3 .
1 4 .
1 5 .
1 6 .
1 7 .
1 8 .
1 9 .
2 0 .
2 1 .
2 2 .
2 3 .
2 4 .
2 5 .
26.
2 7 .
28*
.
2 9 .
3 0 .
3 1 .
Moon in Aries. Favorable. Attend to important daily a ffa irs , writings,
deal with others during day. Evening favors friends, romance, etc.
M
oor, in Taurus 6s31 PIvi. Favorable. Peal with merchants, adjust delayed
accounts, credits. Abide quiet in personal, social matters during PM
.
Good in routine matters only.- Buy, deal with others, cut use care in
travels, motoring during evening hours. Avoid haste, excitement»
Sunday. Moon in your sign 8:13 PM. Favors meditation, future plans,
minor healthful recreation, but avoid overdoing, haste in travel, etc.
Favorable in personal, social, romantic and recreational matters,
Moon in Cancer 8:54 PiA. Active, favorable. Wind up. important routine
matters, carry out plans, make changes, begin extensive travels, etc.
Unimportant, Patiently attend to daily duties. Read, study during PM
,
Moon in Loo 10:02 PM. Doubtful, be conservative, thoughtful, take
car9 o f health, avoid overdoing, unnecessary a c tiv itie s . Rest in PM
.
Favorable in personal and routine a ffa irs , push business, clear up
important and delayed matters, write, deal with others. PM sociable.
Favorable fo r most routine and personal a ffairs after 10 AM. PM hours
good in matters of recreation, theater, courtship, travels, etc.
Sunday. Moon in Virgo 1:19 Aid. A day of minor uncertainties, use good
judgment in personal, family and romantic matters. Avoid inharmony.
Uncertain fo r some in personal a ffa irs , but good in matters of work,
business, finances, dealing with bankers, land owners, contractors.
Moon in Libra 8:06 AM. Favorable in personal and routine matters, a t ­
tend to correspondence, carry out plans, work out new ideas, etc.
Favorable. Push a ffa irs . PM favors antertainments, romance, theaters,
Moon in Scorpio 6:33 PIvi. Be conservative in money matters, but close
important business transitions during day. PM negative, read, relax.
Changeable, Use good judgment in a ll a ffa irs , avoid haste, overdoing.
Favorable for some in routine a ffa irs , business, finances during day.
Use care in travels and health matters during PM. Avoid excesses, etc.
Sunday. Moon in Sagittarius 7:19 AM. A day of ups and downs, guard
against sensitiveness, excitement and inharmony, be thoughtful.
Unfavorable. Use good judgment in a ll a ffa irs . Avoid ir r it a b ilit y .
Moor, in Capricorn 7:48 PM. D ubtful. Be patient. Avoid overdoing,
sensitiveness in personal a ffa irs . Read, study, make plans during
Patiently attend to daily duties. Avoid restlessness, excitement,
Abide quiet in personal, social a ffa irs , but push business, employment
and financial matters. Deal with bankers, brokers, etc. Improve work.
Moon in Aquarius 6:19 AH. Favorable in personal and routine matters.
Yiork out nev; ideas, push business, make wise changes, moves, etc.
Continues favorable. PM favors miner travels, recreation, romance.
Sunday, Moon in Pisces 2:13 PM. Favors social a ffa irs , love, marriage,
travels, recreation, etc. bnjoy the day with friends, loved ones.
Doubtful. Patiently attend to daily duties. Read, study, relax in PM.
Moon in Aries 8:13 PM. Push important routine and business matters
during day. Evening hours favor social matters, romance, theaters,
ravorable in personal and routine a ffa irs , push business, carry out
plans, make changes, begin new projects, travels, etc. PM sociable«
Continues favorable fo r most a ffa irs , but avoid speculative ventures.
Moon in Taurus C:23 AM. A day o f minor ups and downs, take care of
health, avoid overdoing, inhannony, nervousness. Read, relax in PM
.
Abide quiet in personal a ffa irs , but push business, work, finances,
PM.
e tc .
deal with professional petrols, etc during^day. PM doubtful.
GEMINI, AUGUST 1937.
L. Moon in your sign 3s28 AM. Favors personal, social, recreational and
romantic a ffa irs. Also studies, making future plans, discussions.
2. Good in routine a ffa irs, work. Garry out new ideas, begin new work,
prepare advertising, write, deal with others. Adjust accounts, etc.
Moon in Cancer 5:33 AM. Good in routine affairs only. Abide quiet in
social and romantic a ffa irs. Devote evening to reading, studies.
4
-. Doubtful. Patiently attenc to daily duties. Avoid haste, overdoing.
5. Moon in Leo 7:36 AM« Favorable. Fush important v/ork, close deals,
sign contracts, prepare tc start new ventures, travels. PM sociable.
6. Continues favorable. Wisely seek to promote your interests.
7. Moon in Virgo 10:56 AM. Unfavorable for some. Avoid irr ita b ility , be
cautious in daily travels and in dealing with others. Be thoughtful.
8 . Sunday. As above* Avoid misunderstandings. Take care of health, etc.
9. Moon in Libra 5:03 PM. Good in routine affairs during day. Do all
possible tc adjust delayed matters, start important projects, etc.
10. Favorable in personal and routine a ffa irs. ?M hours pleasurable.
11. Favorable in personal affairs, but use care in money matters, buying.
12. Moon in Scorpio 2:38 AM. Good in routine affairs, deal with merchants
creditors, land owners, etc., but abide quiet in social activities.
13. Push important business arid financial plans, deal with professional
people, merchants, buy personal effects, deal with realtors, etc.
11. Moon in Sagittarius 3:50 PM. Clear up important routine matters and
work before 2 PM. Rest of day uncertain, use good judgment. Be pstient.
15. Sunday. Uncertain. Avoid inharmony. Be patient with others, etc.
16. Patiently go about daily duties. Avoid inharmony, impulsive decisions.
17. Moon in Capricorn 3:36 AM. Similar to above. Exercise good judgment.
13. Abide quiet in personal affairs, but do a l l you can to push important
routine and business problems. Make wise investments, improvements.
19. Moon in Aquarius 0:09 noon. Favors personal and routine a ffa irs. Work
cut new ideas, make changes, begin new porjscts, etc. PM pleasurable.
20. Favorable for most a ffa irs, but use care in travels after 3 PM
.
21. Moon in Pisces 9:25 PM. Good in routine and personal matters during
oay. But avoid excitement, haste, unnecessary a ctivities during PM.
22. Sunday. Unfavorable. Avoid inharmony, excesses, etc. B
e thoughtful.
23. Good for some in business and employment matters. Reac, rslax in PM.
24. Moon in Aries 2:22 AM. Favorable. Attend to delayed matters, write,
seek interviews, carry out plans for changes, improvements, etc.
25. Continues favorable, cut be cautious in personal expenditures and
in matters of loans, credits. Evening favors romance, theater, etc.
26. Moon in Taurus 5:56 AM. Good in daily a ffa irs, work, home l i f e , but
abide quiet in social and romantic affairs. Read, study during PM
.
27. Push important routine matters, close deals, sign contracts, etc. D
o
a ll possible to enhance future business and occupational matters.
Also favors investments, buying personal and real property, etc.
28. Moon in your sign 9:02 AM. Favorable in personal, social, romantic
and family matters after 3 AM. Enjoy minor travels, friends, etc.
29. Sunday. Aspects continue favorable. Wisely enjoy the /cay with others.
30. Moon in Cancer 0:03 noon. Clear up important routine matters before
noon. Rest of cay uncertain, use care in writings, travels, etc.
31. Good in routine affairs, business, employment. Work out original
ideas, plans in connection with business or work. Wisely apply your
mind to your work or business and in tine you w ill find yourself
successful and happy because o f i t . There is aiv/ays room to rise.
GEMINI, SEPTEMBER 1937
1- Moon in Leo 3:10 PM. Favors business, employment, interviews; deal
with others, clear up delayed matters, write, etc. PM sociable.
2. Good for most a ffa irs , but avoid haste between 2 and 4 PM. Also use
care in-travels at this time. Evening favors theaters, romance, etc.
3. Moon in Virgo 7:37 PM. Good in routine and personal matters; buy,
s e ll, deal with merchants, sign contracts, etc. PM social, romantic.
4. Variable. However, good in minor routino and financial matters. Make
improvements in or around home, but avoid sensitiveness, overdoing.
5. Sunday. Avoid ir r it a b ilit y . Endeavor to enjoy the day with others.
Also favors sports, but be cautious in travels. Avoid haste, etc.
6. Moon in Libra 1:50 AM. Favorable in personal, social and recreation­
al matters. Hut use care in travels, motoring. Avoid overdoing, etc.
7. Active in routine and daily a ffa irs , clear up delayed matters, begin
new work, but be cautious in expenditures. Read, study during PM.
8 . Moon in Scorpio 11:01 AM. Good in routine e ffa ir s only. Carry out
minor plans in connection with work or business. Adjust accounts.
9. Avoid haste, excitement in connection with daily work and travels.
10. Moon in Sagittarius 11 PM. Favors routine a ffa irs , business, minor
financial matters curing day. Close important deals, contracts, etc.
11. Unfavorable. Avoid disputes, inharmony. Patiently attend to duties
during day. Avoid speculative ventures. Be with friends during PM.
12. Sunday. Unfavorable for some. Take care of health, avoid overdoing.
13. Moon in Capricorn 11:49 AM. Doubtful. Patiently go about routine
duties, avoid unnecessary a c tiv itie s , travels. Read, relax in PM.
14. A routine day. However, avoid impulsive decisions and actions in
personal a ffa irs . Devote some time to study of daily work, business.
15. Moon in Aquarius 10:47 PM. Aspects favor routine a ffa irs , push work
or business, make changes and improvements therein and in home l i f e .
16. Favorable for most a ffa irs . Deal with others, carry out important
plans, write, etc. Begin new projects, travels. PM hours pleasurable
17. Favorable in minor personal and routine a ffairs thruout the day.
18. Moon in Pisces 6:19 AM. Good for some in matters of business, work,
but uncertain for some in family matters, home a ffa irs . Be patient.
19. Sunday. A day of anxiety. Use good judgment, avoid sensitiveness.
20. Moon in Aries 10:29 AM. Changeable. Patiently attend to duties, use
care in writings and daily travels; avoid unwise promises, etc.
21. Good in personal a ffa irs , work, but avoid speculative ventures.
22. Moon in Taurus 0:59 PM. Good in routine a ffa irs , business, minor
financial matters, improvements in work, home, on lands, etc.
23. Close important deals, clear up delayed matters, attend to credits,
buy, s e ll, push ousiness, but a b id 9 quiet in social a ffa irs .
24. Moon in your sign 2:48 PM. Favorable in personal and routine mat­
ters, deal with merchants, attend sales, etc. PM social, romantic.
25. A day of ups and downs. Use care in a l l daily a c tiv itie s .
26. Sunday. Moon in Cancer 5:26 I'M. Uncertain and depressive for some,
good fo r others in minor personal and social matters. Read, study.
27. Good in routine a ffa irs only. Abide quiet in personal a ffa irs .
28. Moon in Leo 9:16 PM. similar to above, but use care in finances.
29. Favorable in personal and routine a ffa irs , carry out important plans
begin new ventures, write, deal with others, etc. PM sociable.
30. Continues favorable for most a ffa irs . Clear up a ll delayed matters,
make improvements in work, business, seek interviews, etc.
GEMINI, GOTOHSR 1937
1 .
2.
3.
4.
5.
6 .
7.
3,
9f
10.'
11. '
1 2 . '
13.
14.
15. '
1 6 .
17.
1 3 .
19.
20.
21.
2 2 .
23.
24.
25.
2 6 .
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
Moon in Virgo 2*30 AM. Good in routine a ffa ir s , but avoid personal
misunderstandings, disputes. Make improvements in work and home.
Active in routine a ffa irs , buying, sellin g, during day, but guard
against sensitiveness, overdoing. Attend theater, v i s i t during PM.
Sunday. Moon in Libra 9:33 AM. Favors personal, social, romantic and
recreational matters. Also v is it s , minor travels, discuccions, etc.
Push important routine matters during day, adjust accounts, credits,^
deal with others,' e t c . , but avoid a l l unnecessary a ctivity during PM.
Moon in Scorpio 6:58 PM. Continues good in routine a ffa ir s , business
during day, write, deal with others, etc. Read, rest, relax in PM.
A day°of ups and downs. Patiently, attend to daily duties.
Important for some in routine a ffa ir s , close deals, sign contracts,
deal with merchants, creditors, buyers, etc. PM sociable.
Moon in Sagittarius 6:45 AM. Unfavorable for seme, guard against
moodiness, unwise decisions, promises. Take good care
Similar to above. Use good judgment in a ll daily
Sunday. Moon in Capricorn 7:37 PM. Doubtful. Be patient with your­
s e lf and others, avoid excitement, inharmony. Read, study, relax.-
Abide quiet in personal and social matters, but push business, work*:
Good in a ffa irs of business or employment, rake improvements in
work, business and in home a ffa ir s .’ PM hours social, pleasurable.
Moon in Aquarius 7:36 AM. Favorable fo r most a ffa irs except between
3 and 6 PM. Avoid haste, etc. PM favors friends, theaters, romance.
Favors personal and routine a ffa irs , carry out plans, deal with
others, write, push business, begin new projects, etc. PM sociable.
Moon in Pisces 3:57 PM. Good in routine a ffa ir s , clear up delayed
matters, correspondence, etc. Read, study, relax curing evening.^
Push business, work during cay, but avoid overdoing, haste, in PM
.
Sunday. Moon in Aries 8:28 PM. A day of minor uncertainties. Guard
Use care in travels, be conservative, patient.'
, be conservative. Avoid haste, etc.
Moon in Taurus 10:08 PM.' Favors minor personal and routine matters,
but avoid hasty decisions and promises in important a ffa irs .
o f health,
a c tivities.
vith
against inharmony
Patiently attend to daily duties
Negative. Attend to daily duties, study problems of work, business.
Moon in your sign 10:40 PM. Favors rout ine a ffa ir s , finances, work
during day. Close deals, sign contracts, begin new projects, etc.
Favorable for most a ffa irs until 6 PM, thereafter exercise caution.
Moon in Cancer 11:49 PM. Favors most a ffairs from 9 AM to midnight.
Sunday. Doubtful. Use good judgment in a l l a ffa ir s . Be conservative.
Patiently attend to daily duties, avoid impulsive decisions, actions.
Moon in Leo 2:44 AM. Favorable in personal and routine a ffa irs , push
matters of business, employment, deal with others, carry out plans
for changes and improvements. Begin new project, travels, writings.
Aspects continue favorable to your sign, make improvements in daily
a ffa irs , home l i f e , etc. Evening hours pleasurable, sociable, etc.
Moon in Virgo 8:03 AM. Good in routine a ffa ir s , buying, selling or
dealing in personal and real property, but avoid domestic inharmony
Aspects uncertain in personal
etc. Close
.+
a ffairs good m matters o f work,
contracts, make
but
business, finances, etc. Close important deals, sign
preparations for new projects, etc, Read, study, relax curing PM.
ibra 3:50 PM. Favorable, active. Push a ffa ir s . PM sociaole.
wioon m i-.
Sunday. Favors personal, social and romantic matters, ¿»njcy the day
GEM
IR'I , NO
VEM
BER 1037
1 .
?..
3 .
4 .
5.
6.
n
••
d «
9.
10w
11.
12 .
13 »
1 4 .
1"*
1 6 .
17.
18.
19.
20.
2 1.
22.
23.
24-.
2 5 .
26.
2 7 .
28.
29.
3 0 .
D oubtful* Be c o n s e r v a t iv e , a v o id im puleive d e c is io n s in d a ily work.
Meon in S c o rp io U 4 9 AM. Unimportant. F a t i e n t l y attend t o d a i l y work
o r d u t ie s , use cars in d a ily t r a v e l s . Read, stu d y , r e la x in PM*
Favorable f o r some in m atters o f business, employment, d e a lin g with
o th e r ? , w r i t i n g s * s ig n in g important papers, e t c . Adjust accounts.
Moon in S a g it t a r iu s ls4S PM. A void minor personal misunderstandings,
but push important business m u tters, deal w ith p r o fe s s io n a l p e o p le *
Curb s e n s it iveness, a v o id d is p u te s , tut c l e a r up delayed m atters and
a tte n d t o accounts, c r e d i t s , correspondence. Road, r e la x during PM.
Good in ro u tin e m a tters, d e a lin g w ith o t h e r s , cut avoid s p e c u la tio n .
Sunday. Moor, in Capricorn 2s5D AM. Good in m atters o i‘ study, making
fu tu re plans, a tten d in g t h e a t e r , church, e t c . A v o id b e s t 6 in t r a v e l .
Good in ro u tin e a f f a i r s , business. Begin im portant p r o j e c t s , carry
out p la n s , w r i t e , deal w ith p r o fe s s io n a l p e o p le , mako investm ents.
Abirie q u ie t in s o c ia l end romantic m asters, but push business, work,
make improvementg t h e r e in and in domestic a f f a i r s . R elax in PM.
Moon in Aquarius* Favors personal and r o u tin e m a tters. But avoid
haste between 12:30 end 2:30 PM- Evening hours p le a s u r a b le , social®
Good in rou tine a f f a i r s during day. Abide q u iot during ev e n in g .
Moon in P is ce s 1 *.G
3 AM. Good in ro u tin e a f f a i r s o n ly . Push m atters
o f ea sin ess, work, c l e a r up delayed m a tte r s , d9ai. w ith merchants.
U nfavorable f o r some. A void s e n s it iv e n e s s , be c o n s e r v a t iv e , p a t ie n t .
Sunday. Moon in A r ie s 6:53 AM. Favors p e r s o n a l, s o c i a l , romantic and
r e c r e a t io n a l m a tte r s . A ls o fa v o r s church, t h e a t e r , v i c i t c , e t c .
Favors!)! e f o r most a f f a i r s u n til 10 PL:, t h e r e a f t e r u n fa vora b le.
Moon in Taurus 9:10 AM. V a r ia b le . Use good judgment in d a ily a f f a i r s ,
w r i t i n g s , t r a v e l s , take c a re o f h e a l t h , a v o id ex citem en t, temper.
Good in rou tine a f f a i r s o n ly . Avoid unnecessary a c t i v i t i e s in PM.
Moon in your sign 9*10 AM. F avor3 p e rso n a l, rou tine and business a f ­
f a i r s , deal with e t h e r s , ca rry cut p la n s , make changes, t r a v e l , e t c .
A cay o f v a r ia b le in d i c a t i o n s . A tten d t o a l l a f f a i r s t h o u g h t fu lly .
Moon in Cancer 8*43 AM. R e s t le s s and u n c e rta in . Avoid unwise o r im­
p u ls iv e d e c is io n s , s p e c u la t iv e v e n tu r e s . Use c a re in d a ily t r a v e ls .
Sunday. Changeable. Avoid c o n o it iv o n e o c , inkarmony. W isely devote
some time to study and planning® A tten d church o r t h e a te r , r e la x .
Moon in Leo 8*16 All. f a v o r a b le in personal and rou tine a f f a i r s . Re**
g in new p r o j e c t s , 3 t a r t h olid ay t r a v e l s , e t c . PM s o c ia b le .
A day o f ups and downs. A void h a s te , nervousness, overdoin g. Be
c o n s e r v a tiv e ir. money m atters during day. Evening hours fa vora bLe.
Moon in V ir g o 2*01 PM. A c t i v e in d a i l y a f f a i r s , business, but guard
a g a in s t overdoin g ■•m
d becomming t o o t i r e d and i r r i t a b l e in PM.
Thanksgiving Day. M inor good aspects r u le the day. Enjoy i t w i s e l y .
Muon In L ib ra Ss26 PM. U nfavorable u n t i l 7 AM, t h e r e a f t e r aspects
a r e good in ro u tin e m atters o n ly . Make adjustm ents, push business.
Changeable. A void h a s te , e x c ite m e n t. Be c o n s e rv a tiv e in fin an ces.
Use care i r d a ily t r a v e l s , a v o id e x c e s s « « during evening hours.
Sunday. Good in minor s o c i a l end personal m a tte r s . Seek fr ie n d s ,
a tte n d church, v i s i t , en jo y t h e a te r . Hole h e lp fu l discucciuns.
Moon in Scorpic 7 M6 a K. Abide q u ie t in persuftaL and s o c ia l m a tters,
but push business, employment, begin new p r o j e c t s , w r i t e . Rest in PM.
A day o f u n c e r t a i n t i e s . Use care in a Ll a c t i v i t i e s . Take c a r e of
h e a l t h , d i e t . Avoid umvioo statements, prom isse, w r it in g s , e t c .
GEMINI, DECEM
BER 1937
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6 .
7.
8.
10.
1 1 .
i o
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20
21
22
23
24
Moor, in Sagittarius 8:06 PM. Good in routine a ffa irs . Advertise, be­
gin new work, carry out plans for improvements, changes. Rest in PM*
A day o f minor ups and downs. Avoid impulsive decisions, statements*
Unfavorable fo r some. Use good judgment in a ll daily a c t iv it ie s . .
Moon ir. Capricorn 9:07 Alt!. Favors routine matters during day. Clear
up delayed matters, deal with merchants, etc. PM social, pleasurable.
Sunday. Good in minor personal and social matters, but wisely devote
seme time to study, meditation, plans fo r future improvements.
Moon in Aquarius 9:38 PM. Favors routine, employment and financial
matters during day. Push business. PM favors social a ffa irs, iriends.
Favors routine a ffa irs , writings, business during day. Aspects^un­
favorable a fter 5:30 PM. Avoid excitement, haste. Be thoughtful.
Good, but avoid personal arguments. Push matters o f business, v/orK,
writings, changes, travels, etc., during day. PM sociable.
Moon in Pisces 8:20 AM. Good in routine a ffa irs only. Abide quiet in
in personal a ffa irs . Deal with others, adjust accounts, credits, etc.
Push matters of work during day. Unfavorable after 6 PM. Use care.
Moon in Aries 3:30 PM. Wind up important routine matters during day.
Afternoon and evening favors recreation, friendship, romance, etc. .
Sunday. Favors personal, social and recreational a ffa ir s , theaters.
Moon in Taurus 7:48 PM. Good in personal and routine a ffa irs , carry
out plans, attend to changes, improvements in work and at home.
Attend to shopping, dealing with merchants, creditors. Clear up a ll
delayed business or employment matters. Read, study, relax in PM
.
Moon in your sign S:40 PM. Favorable for most a ffa irs except between
noon and 2:30 PM. Evening favors romance, friends, theater, v is its .
Favors personal and routine a ffa irs , writings, shopping, etc., during
day. Evening hours uncertain, avoid excitement, overdoing, etc.
Moon in Cancer 8:03 PM. Changeable. Push important matters between
8' AM and 3 PM, thereafter take things easily. Avoid haste, inharmony.
Good in routine matters, buying, etc., during day. Read, relax m PM.
Sunday. Moon in Leo 7:53 PM. Restless, guard against ir r ita b ilit y ana
sensitiveness. Bo patient with yourself and others. Read, study.
Active, favorable. Push important matters, close deals, sign con­
tracts, begin now ventures, holiday travels, etc. Relax during PM.
Moon in Virgo 10:02 PM. Attend to delayed matters, writings, deal
with merchants, shop, etc. Evening favors social a ffairs romance.
Active, but avoid overdoing and becoming too tired and restless.
Evening favors writings, family matters, friendships, relaxation.
A day of minor uncertainties. Use good judgment in a l l a ffa irs .
, Moon in Libra 3:55 AM. Favorable .and active fo r many, but use care
in daily travels, motoring. Evening favors social a ffa irs, friends.
25. Christmas. Favorable aspects rule the day. Enjoy it with others.
26. Sunday. Moon in Scorpio 1:47 PM. Devote the day to relaxation. Avoid
excesses o f any kind. Attend church, theaters- Be meditative.
27. Restless during forenoon, use care. Push important matters in a fte r­
noon. Clear up delayed matters, etc. Read, study, relax during PM
.
28. Good in routine a ffa irs thruout day. PM negative and unimportant.
29. Moon in Sagittarius 2:12 AM. Forenoon active. Use care in a ll mat­
ters during afternoon. Avoid haste, inharmony. Be thoughtful.
30. Variable. Patiently attend to daily duties. Avoid overdoing, etc.
31. Moon in Capricorn 3:13 PM. Similar to above. Take care o f health.
GEMINI 1937
The following gives the sign position of the Sun ana planets during
1937, The sign position of the Moon is given in the daily guide. Pluto
remains in the sign Cancer thruout the year. Neptune remains in Virgo
thruout the year. Uranus remains in Taurus thruout the year. Saturn in
Pisces until April 25th when it enters Aries# Saturn returns to Pisces
on October 17th. Jupiter remains in Capricorn until December 20th, when
it enters ths sign ¿lquarius. Other positions are given below.
JANUARY, Mercury in Aquarius on 1st, returns to Capricorn on 9th.
Venus in Pisces on 5th. Mars in Scorpio on 5th» Sun in Capricorn, w ill
enter Aquarius on 20th. FEBRUARY, Venus in Aries on 3rd, Mercury in
Aquarius on 13th. Sun in Pisces on 19th. MARCH, Mercury in Pisces on
6th. Venus in Taurus on 9th. Mars in Sagittarius on 12th. Sun in Aries
on eve o f 20th. Mercury in Aries on 23rd. APRIL, Mercury in Ihurus on
6th. Venus retrogrades into Aries on 13tn. Sun in Taurus on 20th. Saturn
in Aries on 23th. MAY, Mars returns to Scorpio on 14th. Sun in Gemini on
21st, JUNE, Venus in Taurus on 4th. Mercury in Gemini on 13th. Sun in
Cancer on 21st. Mercury in Cancer on 30th. JULY, Venus in Gemini on 7th.
Mercury in Leo on 14th. Sun in Leo or. 23rd. Mercury in Virgo on 31st.
AUGUST. Venus in Cancer on 4th. Mars in Sagittarius on 8th. Sun in Virgo
on 23rd. Venus in Leo on 30th. SEPTEMBER, Sun in Libra on 23rd. Venus in
Virgo on 24th. Mars in Capricorn on 30th# OCTOBER, Mercury in Libra on
8th, Venus in Liora on 19th. Saturn in Pisces on 17th. Sun in Scorpio on
23rd. Mercury in Scorpio on 25th. NOVEM
BER, Mars in Aquarius on 11th.
Venus in Scorpio on 12th. Mercury in Sagittarius on 13th. Sun in Sagit­
tarius on 22nd. DECEM
BER, Mercury in Capricorn on 3rd. Venus in Sagit­
tarius on 6th. Jupiter in Aquarius on 20th. Mars enter Pisces on 21st.
The Sun enters Capricorn on 22nd.
SIGNS AND HOUSES.
Study the following carefully, as the knowledge of the twelve signs
and their corresponding solar houses w ill aid you in understanding the
following pages devoted to the 12 solar houses.
»
GEMINI, your birthsign, corresponds to the fir s t house.
CANCER corresponds to your second solar house.
LEO corresponds to your third solar house,
VIRGO corresponds to the fourth solar house.
LIBRA corresponds to the f if t h house.
SCORPIO corresponds to the sixth house.
SAGITTARIUS corresponds to the seventh house.
CAPRICORN corresponds to the eighth house.
AQUARIUS corresponds to the ninth house,
PISCES corresponds to the tenth house,
ARIES corresponds to the eleventh house,
TAURUS corresponds to your twelfth solar house.
when the Moon is in the sign Virgo, as on January 1 st, it is in
your forth solar house. When i t enters Libra it is in your f if t h solar
house, etc. Study the following pages carefully and use the indications
of the houses in connection with the daily forecast.
JUDGEMENT OF THE TW ELVE HOUSES
AND
ANNUAL PROGRESSION
The following pertains to the judgment of the 12 solar houses. In one year the
•arth complete* one cycie around the Sun and passes thru the 12 signs of the Zodiac.
The Moon requires slightly over 27 days and 7 hours to complete one cycie of the twelve
signs. Thus we find the influence of the Moon is constantly changing from day to day.
Study the preceding page carefully and learn which signs of the Zodiac correspond to the
¡2 houses of your soiar chart. Also as each sign consists of 30 degrees the simple method
explained in the following will help you considerably.
L FIRST HOUSE
Your birthday, eacii year, is always symbolical of the end of one cycle and tl :
beginning of another, according to the Sun. The first house of your solar chart consists of
30 degrees arid the Sun occupies this house for the period of 30 days following your
birthday. This house is known as the house of Personality. It represents Y O U . It indi­
cates your personality, character, temperament and deais with all personal affairs and
activities. When the Sun, Moon or planets occupy this house or they are in signs favor­
able to this house, ail matters which pertain to your personality and personal aifairs come
to the fore, 'l his usually means increased ambition, renewed personal interest in all
a/fairs, desire for personal recognition. It indicates a good period in which to embark on
new and important ventures, enter into business or partnerships, etc. It also indicates a
favorable period in matters of romance, love, marriage, and being a house that is favor­
able to the houses of mentality, travel and friendships, thus thoughts pertaining to these
things will come into consciousness. W ith some a spirit of adventure and daring is bora.
I'hc important ages signfied by this house are 13, 25, 37, 49, 61. In youth the years
signify physical, mental and personal development. Upon maturity in matters of person­
ality, work, business, personal honor, romance, marriage, recognition for personal work,
friendships, etc. This house is favorable to houses 3, 5, 9 and 11. Good to houses 2 and 12.
li. SECOND HOUSE
1he Sun occupies this House from 30 to 60 days after birthdate each year, or dur­
ing second month after birthdate. It is favorable to houses 4. 6, 10 and 12. Good to
houses I, 3, 7 and 9. This house signifies all personal possessions, wealth, etc. It has
a favorable influence on work, business, professional iife, domestic and family matters arid
income. Any favorable indications from the Sun and planets indicate a period of much
mental ana physical activity in all matters that pertain to personal income from work,
business, protession and ever, investments and speculative ventures and gambling. As this
house receives unfavorable indications from the 5th, 8th and 11th houses it is advisable
to refrain from costly social activities, impetuous romantic attachments, etc. Important
ages signified by this house are 14, 26, 38, 50 and 62, particularly in matters of study for
practical work or business and in all matters which pertains to personal income, gains from
investments, etc. This house also favors investments for expansion in affairs oi work,
business, etc.
HI. T H IR D HOUSE
'1he Sun occupies this house from 60 to 90 days or during 3rd month from your
birthday, each year. This is known as the house of conscious mental states, learning,
knowledge and how you express your conscious knowledge thru personality. It presides
over speech, writing of letters, short stories, methods' of travel and communication. It
also represents relatives, brothers, sisters, uncles and aunts. It receives favorable indi­
cations from planets occupying houses 1, 5, 7, and 11. It receives good indications from
houses 2. 8 and 10. Unfavorable to houses 6, 9 and 12. However, any indication
directed to this house is stimulating to the mind and consciousness. This leads to quest
of more knowledge, desire for study and self-improvement, social activities, new friends,
etc. Sometimes the mind appears to be so busy that it is difficult co keep up with its
rapid trend of ideas. At rimes a state of undefinable restlessness ensues which may or
may not lead to interest in many things, subjects, etc. There is an intense desire for
changes, travels, new friends, acquaintances, taking up hobbies, new studies, etc. Indi­
cations of this house favor dealing with or taking up mental work or studies, printing,
writings, journalism, deal with people connected with transportation, aviation, communi­
cations. telephone, telegraph, etc. The favorable indications of other houses may indicate
rise thru influence of associates, friends and such peopie as relalize your merits. Important
ages of this house are 15, 27. 39, 51 and 63.
IV . F O U R T H HOUSE
The Sun occupies this house from 90 to 120 days after birthday. In the solar chart
it presides over domestic affairs, home, family, parents, real property, lands, farms and all
affairs thereof, it has a reactionary indication upon the houses which affect personal,
marital and partnership status when aspects are unfavorable. This house is favorable to
houses 2. 6. 8. and 12. Good to houses 3, 5. 9 and 11. This is also a house o? medi­
tation, desire tor peace, peaceful home conditions, etc. Indicationsin or directed to this
house favors planning for future work, business, etc. Also favors logical investments of
time and monev in career, business, for lands, farms, etc. Minor or major benefits may
conic to some 'ro n relatives during this period. Should planetary aspects be unfavorable,
it is advisab’e to he cautious in domestic affairs, business or work and do all within your
power tr. avert personal losses, estrangement, divorce, mental depression and such actions
and decisions, as leads to future pain and regrets. Important ages are 16, 28. 40. 52 and 64.
V . F IF T H HOUSE
The Sun occupies this house during the fifth month after your birthday each year.
It presides over emotional self-expression as noted in romance, love, courtship, recreational
activities, pleasures, sports, artistic work, etc. It also pertains to children and affairs of
children. This is also known as the house of speculation, enterprise, adventure, daring and
rebirth of hope, aims and personal ambition. This house is favorable to 1st, 3rd, 7th and
9th. Good to 4th, 6th and 10th. Its signficant ages are 17, 29, 41, 53 and 65. Do ail
you can when indications are good tothis house to advance yourself mentally, personally
and economically so that you may achieve the rational happiness signfied by this house.
V I. SIX TH HOUSE
The Sun occupies the sixth house during the sixth month after birthday each year.
Ir is favorable to 2nd, 4th, 8th and 10th houses. Good to 5th, 7th, 11th and 1st. It is
known os the house of health, diet, clothing, domesticated animals, services to employer,
servants, personal industry, etc. It also has a favorable bearing upon business, profession,
vocation, and finances. As this house pertains to practical every day affairs of life, it
is advisable to take full advantage of every favorable aspect in or directed to this house
from other signs, and do all possible to make wise improvements in daily affairs, business,
work, home life, on lands, farms, etc. Also take an interest in building up the state o*
health, resistence to ailments, etc. Many astrologers do not consider this a good house,
but my experience and observation has taught me that it is. This house plays an import­
ant part in the lives of every really successful man and woman. One may work hard
thruout life and still not have much, but when one couples industry with wisdom, success
is then truly attained. It is, therefore, by wise work that man succeeds. It is true that
the great majority of indications directed to this house do not stimulate personal pleasures,
love affairs, etc., but they enable one to work and achieve the necessary financial means,
which makes such matters more enjoyable. Important ages signfied by this house are 18.
30. 42. 54 and 66.
V II. S E V E N T H HOUSE
The seventh house is opposed to the first house. The Sun occupies this house
during the seventh month after your birthday each year. It pertains to alliances, marriage,
partnerships, cooperative activities, personal and business competition, law suits, personal
strife, influence of mate as in marital status, etc. This house is favorable to 3rd, 5th, 9th
and 11th houses. Good to 6th, Sth, 12th and 2nd. Unfavorable, only when indications
are from unfavorable planets, 1st. 4th and 10th houses. In business, occupational and
profcssoinal affairs the indications of this house are noted in partnerships, alliances and
cooperative activity to meet competition, etc. The mutual merger of two or more people
and their interests often leads to greater success. Young men and women benefit by be­
coming partners of older and more experienced people, etc. Aspects in or directed to this
house,are reverse of those of the first house. In the first house all influences pertain to
self. In this house all indications point to our relationship to others in general and in
particular our very close personal relationships as in engagement and marriage, etc. Our
personal reaction to the indications of this house determine to a great degree our true un­
selfishness in our attitude toward our fellow beings. In personal affairs this house signfies
engagement, marriage, alliances of personal nature as in close friendship whether it is only
a theater party or an adventure around the world, etc. This is aiso known as a social
house and is favorable for travels, and such matters as signified by 3rd and 9th houses.
Its good relationship with 5th and 11th houses favor pleasures, sports, recreation and such
activities of pleasureable nature which two or more people may enjoy when together. Un­
favorable planets in this house affect the affairs of personal nature, domestic and marital
life and often business or occupational matters, because of our moodiness or inability to
adjust ourselves to changing conditions. Important ages are signfied by this house are
19. 31. 43. 55 and 67.
VIII. EIGHTH HOUSE
The Sun occupies this house during the eighth month after birthday. It pertains
to the finances and personal property of mate, partners and associates. Also finances
involved in legal action, wills, estates, the financial status after marriage, gifts, etc. The
ancients considered it the house of the dead and the material goods of the dead. It also
has rulership to a certain extent over gambling, speculative ventures, investments, promo­
tional and get-rich-quick schemes, etc. This house is opposed to the 2nd house and Is also
unfavorable to houses 5 and 11, when unfavorable planets are in this house. It is favor­
able ro *Uh. 6th. 10th and 12th houses. Good to 3rd. 7th. 9th and 1st houses. The indi­
cations of the Sun and majority of planets in this house favor domestic and family affairs,
adjustment and improvements in financial affairs, business, work or employment matters.
This house is more favorable to business affairs, work. etc., than it is for persona! affairs,
thus it is advisable to do all you can to enhance your industrial and economic prospects
when this house receives solar and lunar indications. Important ages are 20. 32. 44. 56
and 68, also- such aoes as signified by houses favorable to this house.
IX. N IN T H HOUSE
The Sun occuoies this house during the ninth month after b'rthdav It presides over
the higher psychic, inspirational, intuitive or spiritual consciousness of man. Thus it rules
philosophy, science, education, religion or spirtual ideaton. law. medicine, engineering,
major travel, lengthv writings, etc. This house is favorable to 1st. 5fh. 7th and 11th
houses. Good to 2nd. 4th, 8th and 10th houses. Opposed to third house and unfavorable
co 6ui and 12th house«. 1 be indication* ox tin* house favor both personal i id routine
matters and the transit of the Sun thru this house brings increasing benefits to many whom
follow the Natural Laws and principles of life which are conducive to success and achieve­
ment Aitho this house is opposed to the third house it greatly magnifies the things pre­
sided over by the third house. The ninth house is similar to the third except that it is
on a grander and broader scale. Ln personal affairs the indications from this house favors
extensive travels, writing, new work or business, beginning new ventures, etc. Also favors
intellectual and spiritual growth, affairs of love, romance, marriage, increased personal
hope, ambition and such affairs as ruled by houses favorable to this one. Important ages
signified by this house are 21, 33, 45, 57, 69.
X. T E N T H H O U S E
The Sun occupies thus house during the tenth month after birthday. It is the house
of personal honor, professional status, business or vocation and represents such people as
government officials, rulers, employers, bosses, etc. It represents the highest point of the
heavens. It is favorable to 2nd, 6th. 8th and 12th houses. Good to 3rd, 5th, 9th and
ilth. It is opposed to the fourth and when occupied by unfavorable planets it is un­
favorable to 1st and 7th houses by reaction. Important ages are 22nd, 34th, 46th, 58th
and 7th. Indications to this house are generally more favorable to routine and business
matters than to personal affairs. It indicates one's rise in life, and work, it indicates a
period of service and the recognition and reward for previous service. Thus industrial
and economic matters should receive attention. W isely work to be successful.
X I. E L E V E N T H H O U S E
The Sun occupies this sign during the eleventh month after birthday. This house
favors 1. i, 7 and 9. Is good to 4, 6, 10 and 12. It is in opposition to 5th house and
when unfavorable planets transit thru this house it is unfavorable to houses 2 and 8 a*
well as 5. This house favors personal and routine matters. It is known as the house
of friendships, social aims, also wishes, hopes; income or benefits from business, trade or
profession, etc. The periods signified by this house are usually very interesting from a
mental and social point of view. The mind is active and one is aware of original and
inspired ideas of practical nature. The personal outlook appears to be more hopeful.
There is the urge to improve and make changes of importance, the desirefor travels, r.ew
associations, new adventures and experiences. It indicates a favorable period to form
personal or business alliances, partnership, also favors marriage, social and personal recog­
nition. etc. Its contact with other houses favors beginning new business, entering into
business for self, etc. In many this period signfies the development of Intent talents. The
mind is active, judgment keen, intuition develops, knowledge and understanding of human
nature increases. This period also favors science, education, spiritual or higher psychic
matters. In routine matters it favors advance, gains, recognition for past work, but is
not good in speculative matters. A ll in all a rather important period is signified by this
house. Its important ages are 11. 23. 35. 47. 59, 71. Always endeavor to advance in all
personal and routine matters during this period.
X li. T W E L F T H HOUSE
The Sun occupies this house during the twelfth month after birthday. According
to astrology this is the house of secrecy, secret enemies, self-undoing, personal disillusion­
ment. state of health, confinement, restrain and obstacles and handicaps in life. This causes
many to think that this house is unfavorable. It is the house of secret meditation, mental
and personal adjustment, preparation for new conditions, etc. It signifies the end of a
cvcle. Thus it marks a period of adjustment and changing conditions. T o some, especially
rhe wise and industrious this period brings gains, benefits, profits from past work, business,
etc. Others may find it a period in which their records do not merit such benefits. These
people, unfortunately, are the victims of their own psychology, attitude and outlook on
life. Each one is rewarded according to his or her merits and thru capabilities. However,
this period favors secret matters, carrying out secret plans, original ideas which require
secrecy, etc. Also the tboughful will find benefits cominq from or thru the efforts of friends,
associates, employers and others. It is a good period for some in matters of business,
finances, employment, but doubtful in speculative and gambling matters. This cvcle is
quiet good In domestic affairs, faimly life, dealing in real property, buyinn or selling of
lands, farms, homes, etc. As this house opposed to the 6rh house, it is advisable to take
reasonable care of health and avoid overdoing and therebvthrow one’s state of health
'■'if normal balance. This house is favorable to 2nd. 4th. 8 and 10 houses. Good to 1.
5, 7, and 11. Unfavorable to 3, 6 and 9. Its important ages are 12. 24. 36. 48, 60 and
72. Use the indications of this house to prepare for your future. Study vourself. make
plans, increase your knowledge and wisdom, etc.
A N A L Y S IS O F PE R IO D IC IT Y
The Law of Periodicity or repetition of cycles has ben known thruont apes. In
opinion the Law of Periodicity not only consists of a return of a cy^'e but consists of
a progressive return. This fact is found in all Nature, evolution of life and in the ex­
pansion of the universe, as may be determined mathematically. The following is devoted
to various cycles which have an important bearing in astrological studv and work.
The rotation of the earth leads us to the first cycle which consists of one day.
it t&ki* 2J hours, 56 miiiutea and 4 sccouds to cowpkta 00« cyck. Ad ot the twelve
signs of the Zodiac appear to rise and set in the course of one day. Hence the actual
moment oi birch, aiso the place or longitude and latitude is essential in calculating a
horoscope. Thus we find that every day, each of the twelve signs piay an important part.
The second cycle is that ot the Moon. It completes one cycle around the earth
and 12 signs in about 27 days, 7 hours and 43 minutes. Its synodical cycie or from New
Moon to New Moon is approximately 29 days, 12 hours and 44 minutes. Each succeed­
ing iunation is almost one sign removed from the preceding. W e find that in the course
oi one month the Moon passes over its own place and that of the Sun and planets at
birth. M y daily forecast is written accordingly. Thus we note dial every day the Moon
presents different aspects to natal and transit planets.
The third cycle is that or Mercury. It completes one cycle around the Sun in
about 83 days. Its synodical period is about 116 days. It is never more than 28 degrees
removed from the Sun and its period of transit over its own place at birch varies from
year to year. Sometimes it is ahead of the Sun and other times following the Sun.
The fourth cycle is that of Venus, which moves around the Sun in 225 days. Its
syndoical period being about 5S4 days. Its transit over its place at time of birth varies
from year to year. Like Mercury Venus may be ahead of die Sun one year and behind
the Sun the next year.
The fifth cycle is that of the Earth. This determines the relative position of the
Sun from day to day. The earth completes one cycle around the Sun in s-'gihtly over
365 days. In geocentric astrology we consider the earth as being the center of ad indi­
cations directed to it. A il things appear to revolve around the earth. Thu» once each
year we say the Sun returns to its own place. This is signified by a birthday eacii year.
Hie solar return is very important and signifies die beginning of another important cycle
or year in life.
The sixth cycle is that of Mars. Its cycle around the Sun is about 687 days. Its
synodical period is variable and takes place about every 2 years. 1 month and 20 days.
Thus Mars travels over its own position at birth about once every two years. It may
be shorter or longer.
The Seventh and important cycle is that of Jupiter, which completes one cycle around
Che Sun in about 11 years and 10 months. Its average synodical period is about 399 days.
Eacii succeeding opposition being about one sign advanced from the preceding. Thus we
find Jupiter will travel thru one sign a year.- It transits over its own place at birth once
every 12 years. Its transit over its own position is usually quite favorable particularly
during the 23rd and 24th, 35th and 36th, 47th and 48th. 59 and 60th years of age. 1 he
oppositions are noticeable during 6th, 18th, 30th, 41st and 42nd, 54th and 66ih years of
age. Minor uncertain aspects are noticeable in combination with other planets at 20 to
22, 27 to 29, 44 to 47 and 57 to 59 years of age. During the opposition and uncertain
years use care in financial matters, business, work, domestic, health and legal affairs.
Jupiter tends to expansion, but in critical periods one is apt to overstep and the result is loss.
The eighth cycle is that of Saturn, which completes one revolution around the Sun
and earth in less than 30 years, its synodical period is about 378 days, showing its an­
nua! opposition to the Sun finds it less than one half sign removed from its former position.
It takes Saturn a little more than two years to transit thru one sign and it returns over
its own position once in less than 30 years. Its minor and major unfavorable periods
come at the ages of 7-8, 14-15, 21-22, 37-38, 44-45, 50-51, 61, 73-74. The transit of
Saturn over its own place at the age of 29 to 30 is not always unfavorable, but often
responsibilities come into life which leads to consistent growth and recognition, promotion,
gains and profits in face of obstacles, hindrances, etc. Minor good aspects of Saturn to its
own place are noticed at the ages of 6-7, 10-11, 19-20, 24. 35, 40. 48-49. 60. 64-65. 69-70
Saturn’s aspects to natal planets remains in activating oro for more than one month at 1
time.
The ninth cycle is that of Uranus. It completes one revolution of the Sun and i?
signs in about 84 years. Its synodical period is about 370 days and it travels thru one
sign In about 7 years. It transits over its own position during the 84th year. Critical
ages are II. ? 1 to ?X 33, in some cases from 41 to 45. 54-55. 6.3 to 65, 73-74. It app’iej
to good aspects to its own place during the ages of 14, 30-31, 57-58. 70-71. 77. It remains
within orb of aspects for about a year. Uranian periods are usually very active and with
other indications being favorable at the time show periods of rapid advancement, recog­
nition, sudden gains, new ideas that lead to success, etc. Its unfavorable indications tend
to changes, estrangement, separation from others, etc. During such ages one is apt to be
sensitive, temperamental and easily' upset and there is a tendency to impulsive decisions,
unwise moves, charges, etc. Also take good care of health, be conservative in financial
matters, etc.
The tenth cycle is that of Neptune. It completes one cycle in about 165 years. Its
synodical period being about 367 days, showing that it advances only two degrees a year,
’ t remains in one sign about 14 years. Thus in some instances when it transits over the
osition of any planet in your birth chart, its favorable or unfavorable indications may
ast for two years or more. Its square aspect takes place during 40 to 43 years of age.
t signifies such changes in the human system and mind that take a long time. It aiso
.ppears to have a hearing upon the body, mind and emotional nature. However, in this
work ! cannot touch upon the influence of this and other planets, for this you must refer to
my course or some other course in Astrology. Know Thyself, study astrology.
The M O O N , SIGNS, PLANTING, FISHING, ETC
By Rev. Mattfeaw N. Mattson
I he following will give you an idea of the general indications of the Moon in the
twelve signs of the Zodiac. The sign position of the Moon is to be found in the Daily
Astrological Forecast.
ARIES is known as the first sign of the Zodiac It is ruled by Mars. It is a
cardinal sign- It is known as a fiery sign, being hot, dry and barren. It ruies the head
and face. When the Moon is in this sign it is not a good time to piant the majority of
seeds, the possible exception being such herbs and plants as are ruled by Mars, which
are, beets, onions, tobacco. When the Moon occupies this sign, it is a good time to plow,
till, harrow and cultivate the soil; also destroy weeds, ecc. Many astrologers find that
it is not advisable to have operations on the head and face when the Moon is in this
sign. This sign favors baking, cooking and such matters as deal with fire, steel, iroiL
etc. It is good for hunting, fair for fishing.
1AU R U S is the second sign and is ruled by Venus, the planetof love. It rules
the neck and throat.It's element is earth. It is known as a fixed sign. This is a
productive sign and when the Moon is in this sign it is a favorable time to plant such
vegetables as potatoes, carrots, beets and such other produce that develop underground.
During early Spring months, when the Moon is in this sign, it is increasing in light and
also favors the planting of such vegetables as develop above the ground, also, wheat,
rye and other grains. It is a fairly productive sign for setting eggs. It is not a very
good sign for fishing, but fairly good for hunting. The Moon in this sign also favors buy­
ing personal effects, household necessities, groceries, etc. Attend sales, deal with merchants,
creditors, etc.
G EM INI is the third sign and is ruled by Mercury. It's element is air. It is
known as, dry. cold and barren. When the Moon occupies this sign it is not very good
for planting, but good for tilling the soil, cultivation, destruction of weeds, etc. Gemini
presides over the chest and lungs. It is also known as a mental sign and favors discuss­
ions, interviews, reading, study, dealing with writers, newspaper people, printers, grocers
and such people as deal in smali commodities, books, telephone, transportation, education,
lectures, etc. Fairly good for hunting during the fall months, but not very good for
fishing.
CAN C E R is the fourth sign and is ruled by the Moon. It presides over the
stomach. It s element is water and is known as the most fruitful sign of the Zodiac. Thus
it is favorable for planting of all vegetables and grains. It is also a good sign for setting
eggs, breeding animals, transplanting trees and plants, etc. W hen the Moon is in this
sign it favors changes, moves and improvements in home affairs, also dealing with rela­
tives, parents, etc. It is a favorable sign for fishing, oniy slightly good for hunting. It
is also a good sign for baking bread, cakes, etc.
I.HO is the fifth sign and is rulad by the Sun. It's element is fire and it is known
as hot. dry. barren and unproductive. It does not favor planting of any kind. It is,
however, good for tilling the soil, plowing, destroying weeds, removingor deadening
trees, ere. W hile the Moon occupies this sign it favors sports, recreation, personal
pleasures, a tendency for gambling or speculation is often noted. This sign rules the
heart and back. Thoughts of love, romance and courtship are presided over by this
sign. This is not a very good sign for fishing, but favors hunting.
VIRGO is the sixth sign and is ruled by Mercury. It’s element is earth. It pre­
sides over the intestines. It is known as a barren and unproductive sign, therefore, it is
not favorable for planting, but favors clearing lands and preparing the soil for planting.
Virgo is the natural sign of industry and people born with the Moon inthis sign at
rime of birth are very industrious. It is also known as the natural sign of health and
presides over nurses, healers, medical men, dieticians, etc. W hen the Moon occupies this
sign, it is a good time to deal with such people, also with tailors, merchants, grocers,
manufacturers, employers and many such people as signified by the sign Gemini. Poor
for fishing, only slightly good for hunting.
LIBRA is the seventh sign and it is opposed to Aries. It is ruled by Venus. It's
element is air. It presides over kidneys and small of back. This is the sign of natural
beauty. It is fruitful and favors planting of grain, com. hay and such things as grow
above the ground. It is very good for the planting of flowers. However, it is a social
and artistic sign in a general sense, thus it favors friendships, social activities, alliances
of persona! or business nature such as marriage and partnerships, etc. It is also known
as the sign of contention and competition, butpoints to balance,justice and adjustment
in affairs. It is onlv slightly good for fishing and hunting.
SCORPIO is the eighth sign and is ruled by Mars, some astrologers claim Pluto
for its ruler, others Neptune. It’s element is water. It presides over the reproductive
organs. If ranks next to the sign Cancer in fruitfulness and, therefore, favors all sorts
of plantino. transplanting, breeding, setting of eggs. etc. It is also good for fishing and
hunting. Scorpio is opposed to the sign Taurus. It is also known as the sign of credits,
accounts, the goods of the departed, etc. It is not an active social sign but favors family
matters, dealing with relatives, etc. How-ever. when the Moon occupies this sign and
is favorable to vour hirthsign. it does favor social affairs, etc.
SAG ITTAR IU S is the ninth sign. It is ruled by Jupiter. It's element 1» fir«. It
presides over h:ps and thighs. It is hot. cry and barren, yet it is the most productive
of the fiery signs, being but iairly good for planting hay, onions, cucumbers and the iike.
It is very good for plowing, tilling, breaking the soil, etc. It favors hunting, sports, etc.,
but not very good lor fishing. T.iis sign is opposed to Gemini and is an intellectual or
higher psychic sign. It favors social and business affairs, dealing with learned people,
doctors, surgeons, attorneys, educators, judges, bankers, brokers, publishers, ministers,
writers, etc. It favors important and practical studies, writing, philosophy, history, re­
ligion, psychology, science of all kinds. A good time to begin study in a course of per­
sonal improvement, or increase knowledge of werk, business or profession, etc. I o some
this is a sign cf inspiration, new ideas forming future plans, etc.
CAPRICORN is the tenth sign and is ruied by Saturn. It's element is earth. It
is somewhat productive: however, it favors roct crops more than surface crops. Plant
potatoes, beets, turnips, etc. Capricorn is opposed to Cancer and rules the knees. Can­
cer represents the home, Capricorn represents the business affairs or work of one's life.
When the Moon occupies this sign, it is a good time to deal with learned people, elcerly
people, employers, merchants, creditors, ptibiic officials, ere. Ir also favors construction
laying of foundation, preparation for building, plumbing, the marketing of produce and
products of the soil. It is fairly good in social matters, buying persona! effects, dealing
with realtors, land owners, construction contractors, etc. But is not very good for
hunting or fishing.
AQ U AR IU S is the eleventh sign and is ruled by Uranus. It’s element is air. It
presides over the ankles and nervous system. It is known as a barren and unproductive
sign and therefore, does not favor planting, but favors tilling of_ the soil, etc. It may
be considered fair for hunting, but not very good for fishing. This j s a humanitarian,
friendly and social sign. It is the sign oi brotherly understanding. Thus we find that
when the Moon is in this sign and the day is favorable, as given in the daily forecast,
it is a good day to be with friends, visi:, held interesting discussions, exchange ideas,
seek help from friends, aid friend.«, etc. It is also a sign of science, aviation, philosophy,
invention, electricity, etc. It is the most universal sign of the ent.re twelve. In business
or daily affairs it favors dealing with all types of people, especially if the day is favorable
to ycur sign. It also favors writings, correspondence, theaters, sports, personal pleasures,
etc.
PISCES is the twelfth sign of the Zodiac and is ruled by Neptune. It is known
as a watery, fruitful and productive sign, similar to Cancer. Thus it is favorable to all
kinds of planting, setting eggs, breeding animals, etc. It is fair for hunting and favorable
for fishing. In personal affairs this sign is often thought of as being unfavorable. How­
ever. this is not true in accordance to my observation of many years, in the majority of
instances. It is in reality the sign of secret meditation, concentration and pians for future
development, expansion and improvement in personal, business or industrial and other
afairs of life. However, it is often true, that one's previous actions may cause unpleas­
ant reflections at times, but the actual inception of such event, be it major or minor does
not usually take place under the influence of this sign. It is in reality the sign of pre-
oarat.on for a new cycle which is about to begin when the Moon, Sun or planets will
enter the sign Aries. Thus if a man follows tne actual principles of Nature ard applies
:hem to bis personal and daily life, he will eventually rise to greater heights of success,
happiness and enjoyment of life. You will find ray great course entitled Seifology or
self knowledge wall enable you to get more out of life than ever oefore. It is written as
Ihe result of many years cf patient study ar.d observation of nature and human life.
However, the Moon in this sign favors personal readjustment. development of new nope,
courage, will and determination to make the next cycle grearer than ever before, if one
will but apply himself or herself for :his evolutionary purpose.
ADVICE
From the foregoing you may readily see that when the Moon occupies the signs
Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces, It is the most favorable time for plan:ir.g and should be used
whenever possible to do so. Next ir. the order of fruitfulness you will note in the fol­
lowing order Taurus, Capricorn, Libra. Aries, Sagittarius and finally Aquarius. It is not
advisable to sterilize fowls and animals when the Moon is in signs Virgo. Libra or Scorpio
as this appears to have an unfavorable influence upon their recovery.
Some people have noted good results in planting when the Mcon i* increasing in
light, tha: is going from New Moon to Full Moon, especially when it is in the signs
Cancer or Taurus for planting such crops as develop above the ground: such as beans,
peas, lettuce, tomatoes, cabbage, etc. In the dark of the Mcon, that s. from Full Moon
to New Moon and when in signs Scorpio. Capricorn or Pisces favors root crops such
as potatoes, beets, carrots, turnips, etc.
M y Dear Friend:
You receive my good thoughts and appreciation and may your study of this work
be beneficial and help you to get more out of life than ever before. M y purpose is to
help you to attain the knowledge and wisdom which enables you to look ahead and wisely
prepare to make the most of your life and be happy and successful. You may find the
following works quite helpful and enlightening on your road to success in life.
T E N LESSONS IN T H E A R T O F BEING SUCCESSFUL is a practical work
and should be in the hands of every one. This particular course deals with the every
day affairs of life and shows you how to apply the principles of mind so that you will
be able to do better in the future. Price $2.00.
If you are interested in Hypnotism and Mental Influences, you will find the COURSE
O F T E N LESSONS IN T H E A R T O F H YPN O TIS M , helpful and interesting. This
course now sells for only $2.00.
For those interested in Psychic Penoraena, Mediumship and Phophecy will find the
course entitled "T H E A R T O F PR O PH E C Y" a very helpful work. This work comes
in loose-leaf foider form. This course outlines the principles of psychic or higher mental
development and touches upon the following: Intuition, Inspiration, Prophecy, Require­
ments for Prophecy, Various forms of prophecy and used by the Prophets, according to
the Bible. It also covers clairvoyancy, clairaudiency, psychometry, telepathy. Mediums
and phases of mediumship, crystal gazing and many other interesting subjects which per­
tain to development of foresight and prophecy. Order your copy of this great course
today. Price is now but $10.00.
JUST C O M PLE TE D ! A new work entitled A G UIDE T O LO V E , R O M ANCE
A N D M ARRIAGE. Truly a great work and should be in the hands of every man and
woman, married or single, for careful study and analysis. It will help you to solve many
problems and questions pertaining to Sex, Love, Romance, Courtship, Marriage and Friend­
ships. It is the only work of its kind ever written and contains a SPECIAL A S T R O ­
LO G ICAL T O LO V E , M AR R IA G E A N D FRIENDSHIP. Be sure to order your copy
today. The price of this edition is but $2.00.
I also have the Famous M Y S T IC Z O D IA C C A LE N D A R and P L A N E T A R Y
HOUR GUIDE. This also includes a manuscript explaining the days of the week. It
gives Planetary rulerships of days and hours and is a very helpful work to use in con­
nection with the daily forecast. The calendar covers many years to come. Do not be
without this helpful and entertaining Calendar and Analysis. You will be able to enter­
tain your friends by its helpful and instructive Analysis of their character according to
their birthday. The price of the Mystic Zodiac Calendar and Manuscript is but $2.00.
I also have a long term or 25 year Astrological Forecast which gives the highlights
of astrological indications to your birthsign for the next 25 years. The price of this great
forecast is but $2.50.
W ith all orders you have the privilege of asking my opinion of three questions. It
is understood that I make no claims to any supernatural power in answering your questions.
If your questions pertains to others please give their full birthday information. W rite
questions on separate sheet of paper and be sure to send a STA M PE D self-addressed
envelope to insure immediate reply.
Address Rose Dawn Del Rio, Texas
S P E C IA L O R D E R B L A N K
A R T O F P R O P H E C Y A N D M E D IU M S H IP . P R IC E $10.00
C ity ............. ....................:...................... ............ State..........................
Rirthdate Mnnth Year Hrair
SELFOLOGY
Selfology U written in such language and style that you will readily understand it.
There is nothing difficult or mysterious about it. It is a heart to heart talk with your­
self, your heart and soul, and your actual relationship to the rest of the world, past,
present and future. It leads you to see the great wisdom of the Divine Plan of Creation
and teaches you the great beauty of your physical, mental and spiritual or idealistic being.
It tells you how to develop and prepare yourself so you will be able to make your future
life happier and more successful.
This great course consists of twelve interesting and inspiring lessons totaling over
230 pages. It comes in two forms: one consists of twelve separate lessons, or in two
volumes in loose-leaf folder. The following gives a list of its contents by lessons.
Lesson One. Introduction. Natural Laws. The Physical or Instinctive Mind Covers
Ancestral and Prenatal Influences, etc.
Lesson Tw o. The Intellectual Mind. The Intellect and Suggestion. Words. The
Power of Speech and Suggestion.
Lesson Three. The Psychic Department of Mind. God. W hat is God? What God
is. Biblical references to the Attributes of God. etc.
Lesson Four. God and the Creation of the Universe. l lie Origin of the Atom
Electricity. Light, Heat, Chemical Elements, Radiation, Matter and the Universe As W c
Know It Today. A New and Interesting Hypothesis Showing the Orderly Process of
Creation.
Lesson Five. God and Creation continued. The Origin of the Solar System and
the Earth. Origin and Development of Organic Life.
Lesson Six. God and the Creation of Man. Instinctive Constitution of Man Prior
to the Dawn of Consciousness. Man, Sex and Procreation. The Dawn of Human Con­
sciousness. Mental Constitution of Man After the Dawn of Human Consciousness. Adam
and Eve. Cain. Early Religious Ideas. Interesting New Facts the Scriptures Indicate
if we understand them.
Lesson Seven. You. The First Principles of Successful Attainment. Health. Oc­
cupational Therapy. Emotional States. Fears. Shocks, W orry, Temper, etc. and their
Effects Upon the Endocrine Glands. Diet. Physical Exercise. Mental States. Knowledge
of Food and Nutrition.
Lesson Eight. Self. Your Self-Development. Your Faculties -nd Qualities. Vital­
ity. Respiration, Appetite, Acquision, Aggression, Combativeness. Caution. Adaptability,
Continuity, Feelings, and Emotions. Depth of Feeling and Emotion. The Part Emotions
play in Life.
Lesson Nine. Intellectual Faculties and Qualities. Consciousness, .'arious Degrees
of Human Consciousness. Perception. Attention and its Value in Perception. Ideas
and Associations. Forms of Ideation. How Do W e Think? Memory, Helpful Exercises
for Training Memory. Imagination. Retrospective Imagination. Prospective Imagination.
Their Uses. Disiiiusionmcnts. Original Thoughts and thinking.
Lesson Ten. Intellectual Faculties and Qualities. Reasoning. Logic, Inductive
Reasoning. Generalizations. Deductive Reasoning. Fallacious Reasoning. Fatalistic At­
titudes, Common Fallacies, etc.
Lesson Eleven. Your Personality. Individuality. Instinctive Personality. Intel­
lectual Personality. Spiritual or Idealistic Personality. Various Classifications of Person­
alities. Development of Your Personality. Helpful Suggestions for Seif-Improvement.
Lesson Twelve. The Higher Psychic or Spiritual Intelligence. Higher Psychic At­
tainment. Inspiration. The Voice of the Creator. Biblical references thereto. Effects of
Ideas on Physicial Organism. The Value or Inspiration in the Evolution of Life. The
n ifference Between Inspiration and Impulse. Cultivation of Inspiration. Knowledge and
Wisdom Required. Helpful Suggestions About Inspiration. Intuition, the Comforter. Dif­
ference between Intuition and Impulsiveness. The Holy Ghost and God Actually Keep*
1lis Promises to Man. The Various Uses of Intuition. Biblical References as to its Uses
Folly of Disobedience to intuition. Illustrative Cases. W h y Successful People Fail at
Times. Helpful Exercise and Practice in the Cultivation of Intuition and Inspiration
Telepathy. Biblical References and Instances of Telepath*' Simple Tests and Experi
inents in Telepathy. Future Evolution of Man and Telepa. .y. Immortality or the Con­
tinuity of Life. The Alpha and Omega of Chemical Elements. Biological Continuity of
Life does net admit of Immortality. Biblical References to End of Universe. Man and
Immortality. Intellectual Continuity of Life. Our Transition and Our Logical Preparation
for it. Spirit's Freedom. The Real You. Finale.
price $25.00 C ish or $30.00 on Terms of $5.00 down and $5.00 a month
Do you ever find life to be treating you a little rough?
Are there times when you need a little encouragement?
Do you ever wish there was some one who would occasionally give
you a little pat on the back?
Would you like to have a good friend who would write to you and
cheer you up when you least expected it?
Do you enjoy getting cheery, newsy letters, the kind that give you
encouragement when life seems darkest?
IF YOU CAN ANSW ER A N Y OF THESE QUESTIONS W ITH A
“ YES” — THEN YOU ARE INVITED TO
TAKE OUT A FULL REGISTERED MEMBERSHIP
in ROSE DA WN’S
GREATEST SERVICE
THE COMFORT CLUB
TELL ME
As a means of furthering the service I attempt to
give all who consult me, I created the Rose Dawn
C O M F O R T CLUB. W ith thousands clamoring for
my services, I could have an exclusive Club with high
membership tees and dues if I wanted to. But my mis­
sion is to help all of humanity that I can. I have
therefore made the cost o f joining ridiculously low.
A ll it costs is $1.00. The dollar is to pay for register­
ing your name as a member o f The Comfort Club.
As a Registered Member, you will receive, free of all
other charges, at intervals when you least expect them,
Letters of Uplift and encouragement, Inspirational
Readings and Astrological Bulletins o f late astrological
news. First of all, when you send in your application
you will be registered on our roles as a C O M FO R T
CLU B M E M B E R . Then right away, I w ill send you
your Membership Card, stamped as Registered Mem­
ber, and my latest Astrological Bulletin and an In ­
spirational Reading. Throughout the next twelve
months when you least expect them, you will receive
new Inspirational Readings and Bulletins, all without
any charge.
L a te r, you will also receive Free, Question Service
Coupons. You arc almost sure to have questions oc­
cur to you in the months ahead and these Question
Service Coupons will come in handy.
I will write to you if you become a member, at least
six times, during the year ahead. I feel sure that
thousands will derive real pleasure and comfort from
their memberships. I want you to be one of our mem­
bers. I want you to share in the pleasures I have in
store for the Members of my Comfort Club.
There is just one thing I ask of you. As you know,
this is my busy season. The number of members I
can accept in the Chib to receive this Free service
is limited. Help me to keep my records straight, by-
sending in your application righ t aw ay.
Be among the first to join in your community. Join
today and I w ill send you my private Comfort Club
Message,— you don't need to even write a letter. Just
wrap a dollar bill up in this page. Use the coupon on
back cover, and I ’ll understand what you want. Mail
to:
ROSE DAWN’S COMFORT CLUB
at DEL RIO, TEXAS
ROSE DAWN’S
M O D E R N
ASTROLOGY
M A G A Z I N E
Y O U R G IA N T A S T R O L O G IC A L R E A D IN G is considered to be the largest and most complete of
its kind obtainable for $1.00. You can imagine then, the wealth o f information in Rose Dawn’s monthly
magazine when I tell you that is more than three times as big as this reading. Three times as many words
and packed and jammed with astrological information about you and of interest to you. You don’t want
to miss it. It is a treat that you can get right N O W and have the treat renewed every month, when
each new edition of the magazine comes out, all through the year. Although it is only a little more than
six months old, yet already, Rose Dawn can claim over 125,000 readers of her wonderful magazine. Such
a phenomenal and sensational success for any magazine can only be due to one thing— it can only happen
when that magazine is super-good,—when it is pleasing its readers.
Modern Astrology Magazine is doing a good job of that;— and scarcely a month goes by without
some improvement being added to it,— new features,—leading astrological writers,—new articles, etc. It
carries as just one of its features A Course o f Lessons in Astrology which is running serially in it. An­
other feature is Daily Astrological Readings for every member of your family. Rose paw n ’s own page en­
titled “Am ong Us Women,”— Dawn-ology, a question and answer page for its subscribers and much, much
else. That this magazine was needed is proven by the large number of its readers. It is benefitting them
and it will benefit you too, all through the year ahead. Don’t deny yourself the treat o f this wonderful
magazine. Make T H IS year a happier, more fruitful year. Don’t miss the next issue. M ail the coupon
now . . . 1 full year for $2.00, or 6 months for $1.00. Use the coupon below or your own stationery.
ROSE DAWN’S
C O M F O R T
C L U B
T he G reatest S erv ice E v e r O ffered by an A stro log er to H er C lients—Y o u Can G et It Too
A L L O V E R T H E L A N D , people everywhere, are joining R O SE D A W N 'S G R E A T C O M FO R T
CLUB. Every person who becomes a Registered Member, receives at regular intervals throughout the en­
tire year, many special letters from Rose Dawn, Comfort Club Readings, and Bulletins, Letters of Uplift
Rose Dawn’s famous Inspirational Readings and Affirmation Cards and much else designed to show the
way to happiness and comfort during this year. Then m ore messages and new readings are sent to you
at frequent intervals throughout the en tire y e a r free o f charge. A ll this comes to you, by simply R egis­
tering your Membership now at Comfort Club Headquarters in Del Rio.
In many cities, regular meetings arc held, where special astrological talks prepared by Rose Dawn
are read. These Comfort Club meetings are not dry gatherings, but social get-together and good tim es.
They are not only instructive but entertaining. Each club is engaged in spreading Comfort to the people
of their Community. As a Registered Member of the Comfort Chib, you may take part in all these activ­
ities throughout the year without charge. As a Registered Member you can even organize your own
group into a Comfort Club Circle and receive a beautiful Comfort Club Charter Free. The Comfort Club
idea is undoubtedly the greatest plan ever undertaken by any astrologer to bring continuous service to her
clients. Send in your Registration today and start getting the C om fort Club benefits fo r yourself
A ll you need to do to take out a Registered Membership is send in your Name and Address and
send with it $1.00 as your yearly endowment. T h ere is nothing else to pay. Joining the Comfort Club now,
means signing up for a solid joyful year of Comfort, inspiring, Rose Dawn service. Just fill out the blank
below and send it in. Your first Comfort Club mailing and full information from the Comfort Club comes
to you im m ediately. Use the coupon below or write on your own stationery.
TEAR OFF THIS SPECIAL COUPON NOW AND MAIL TODAY
D E A R R O S E D A W N :
M AIL TO : ROSE DAW N
DEL RIO,
T r y a C
Six months subscription to Rose Dawn’s M odern A strology M agazine, $1.00.
A F U L L Y E A R ’S subscription to Rose Dawn’s M odern A strology M agazine, $2.00
Total Enclosed is $________________
Enclosed is my remittance fo r :
| | R egistered M em bership ill Rose Dawn’s C om fort Club, $1.00.
I
M y Name is -------- ----- -------------------------------------- -------- - ........
M y Address is------------------------- ------------ ------------------- ----------
City ------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- State ..
