{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__rhine___new_frontiers_of_the_mind.pdf","mytitle":"New Frontiers Of The Mind","mylang":"de"}
NEW FRONTIERS
OF THE MIND
TI IE STORY OF THE DUKE EXPERIMENTS
By
J. B. RHINE
Author of
EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION
WITH PHOTOGRAPHS
FARRAR k RINEHART
Toronto
WI ST IH Kl iUll IUM, %mH\\ i i'il J |i i , fit K* ^
VIKStn, IIII l*\U Vl'Stt lit*! <**\ iUu^\3iii\'t i
lUftU lUHHi SI III 4*\ iiff l fvt U |,UNtn Mi
\ :
CONTENTS
Chapter
Ht A FUNDAMENTAL QUESTION REOPENED 3
II FROM EXPERIENCES TO EXPERIMENTS 9
III HALF A CENTURY OF RESEARCH 23
IV Ti*E START or THE DUKE EXPERIMENTS 40
*
V THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 57
VI FURTHER ADVANCES 90
VII THE FIRST SERIOUS CRITICISM 112
.'HI I* IT SENSORY OR EXTRA-SENSORY? 122
IX THE WORK OF OTHER LABORATORIES 135
X THK IN* VIATICATION OF PURE
Tf*U:t*ATHY 158
XI THK G*;NI:KAL MENTAL SETTING 174-
XII PHYSICAL Ri LATIONSHIPS 189
CHI WHO HAS ExtJUrSKNSORY
PERCEPTION? 216
CIV THIS MAOBAC, 229
XV THE PROOLFM OF TIME 253
CVI FROM Now ON 267
ADDITIONAL READING 275
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
Facing
Page
The Duke Parapsychology Laboratory Frontispiece
/A-iwr and KSP test cards 48
Telepathy card testing 60
I luluTt Pearce and the author conducting
an KSP test 82
Shuffling fax and ESP cards 120
Biimi-RMtchhtj; test 146
Sc rccncd touch matching 152
MM KJIM Ownlwy as agent in a distance
telepathy test 1<S2
Mr. Ciwrj^,' Zirkk' as percipient in a distance
telepathy test ^2
Tltir bttiklinypi where distance tests for ESP
wcw conducted 20<J
CChildren taking s matching test 218
Ojfvn matching
24^
KSP test cards and score pad 274
This book owes its final form to so many hands
that I could not call it mine without acknowledg-
ing tb? debt 1 owe to those who have helped me
tnakf it. The text itself -will, I hope, make clear
it fait a great part my co-workers have played in
tf.v research // describes. Jut the early stages of the
Duke experiments* when Mp was most needed, it
came unsparingly and generously not alone from
m\ IT//*', Dr. Louisa E. Rhine, but from my col-
Awfm'i. Professor William McDougall, Dr. Helge
l.iinJbolm, and Dr. Karl E. Zener. Mr. C. .
Stuart, Dr. /. C. Pratt, and Professor and Mrs.
(.rfwjte Zirklf, all of whom participated as assist-
ant* itt t/jf first years of work, contributed a great
ft) */, and my obligation to them is acknowl-
fr'J with gratitude.
There K a small group of silent partners who
contributed /fa funds which tnaintain the
present staff of our laboratory. The value of this
timely aid is very $reat, and if is acknowledged
for? uith the most profound gratitude. Withovt
i<ur//ww tbtw donors have preferred to remain
In the actual preparation of the text of this hook
I am particularly obligated to my wife and to my
*'<vr/4rv, Mist Miriam Wickesser. To numerous
otfcr friends I owe many valuable $uggesthm.
/. B. JR.
Be*et>> Indiana
NEW FRONTIERS
F T H E MIND
CHAPTER I
A fundamental Question Reopened
fil'HIND SEVEN YEARS OF PATIENT WORK, BY A
number of people, work of which this book is the
essential story, lies a question very simple to phrase
but extremely hard to answer: As human beings,
what arc we? What is our place in nature?
Man's first attempts to make clear to himself his
own position in the universe gave rise to the various
primitive religions. Later, with the development of
culture, came the many speculative philosophies,
theories concocted by the reason out of the tissues of
untested logic, Within times historically recent we
have advanced to surer ways of finding out the
truth, 10 those devices for answering questions
known at the methods of science. In this more secure
approach we rely upon neither the prooflcss revela-
tion of the primitive priest nor the unverified specu-
lation of the ancient philosopher.
Science has long been dosing in on the great cen-
tra! question o the nature of man himself. Centuries
*? <tuJy have enabled it to penetrate the secrets of
hi? internal anatomic structure and the intricate
functions of blood, glands, and brain, Step by step as
it grew, science has been encircling the problems of
4 xrw FROXTH'RS or mr r.nvn
man's bodily nature, his evolutionary origin, his
heredity and environment* and even the fundamen-
tal physics and chemistry of his make-up.
But in spite of the brilliant intellects which have
been brought to bear on it during a hundred >v,m
of psychologic research* one question About our
fundamental nature remains conspicuously un-
solved. It is the greatest of all pu/zlc* aNmt the
nature of man: What is the human mind? XHierc
docs it belong* if anywhere, in ihc scheme of our
knowledge as a whole?
2
The mind is still a mystery. Among the mm ami
women mmt qualified to speak of it*
character there is little general afpcrment, Ai
as this holds true, the mt of u* arc in the dark ahmit
what and where we arc in the untvew 01 reality,
For it is by what we arc mentally even more than by
what we arc bodily that we identify and rc
ourselves*
1 am driven to H'iievg ihat the mmt urj;cni
km of our t)i*ilUi*utm'd and flounJvrinK HV^IV it t*
fmti out more about what we arc, in 0fi}#r f ** dl*^
cover what we can do ahmtt the nfiuikm in w}?i<fi
we exist tocfoy. In the cotuluct pf aur jvrv^u! andl
our grmip affair** our varbu* outward
liven, wjf rcco^ni/e more ant! m**r the no?d
profoundcr kind nf iclt'-knowkdgr tlttft ny
mer age hat hid, Until we know more afc*mi
A FUNDAMENTAL QUESTION IUEOPENED f
selves we must recognize that we are moving for-
ward blindly in a world whose patterns are con-
stantly more complex and hazardous.
Yet if a century of investigation by hundreds of
able minds has left the nature of the mind still so
profoundly obscure, it is not easy to go on hoping
that heating the same pathways of research even for
another hundred years will bring us to the goal This
unluppy prospect compels us to look for some al-
ternative, to seek out a new approach, perhaps one
that in an earlier day it was easier to overlook* If
the recognized and the usual in our search have so
far failed us, it is time to turn, in the matter of our
method, to the wwrccognixcd and the ftgusuaL In the
history of more than one branch of research a long-
unrccogni/cd phenomenon has turned out to be the
key 10 a great discovery* The stone which a hasty
science rejected has sometimes become the corner-
stone of its beer structure.
It h long been a common assumption among
the Icjrned that nothing enters the human mind ac-
cept: by way of the senses* The organs of sight and
hearing, of taste and smell, and the other "receiv-
ing station*'* in the skin and deeper tissues are the
%ok mean* by which we can perceive what is going
on in the world outside ourselves. According to this
long-unquationcd doctrine there is no way of di-
6 NEW FRONTIERS OF Tiff MIND
rect communication between one mind and another
and no possible means by which reality can he **^*
pcrienccd except through th<r recognized channel*
of sense.
So the mind i< believed to he geared to the
organs and they in turn to the meclunic.il
about us. The energy of light nuke* vision
mechanical vibration is the bash of hearing, and
on. The hunuimind i
the complex chain of mechanical principle** 1 Icar-
, ^^r,-, ,,?.*. .,. t ***"- ; "--;
'""*"'
,*'
"
;'**-**%
mg for example, begins with a ^nrsot *ottm! w.ivei
which the vjrkus links r/ mechanical principle in
the ear transform to nerve impulse** Tlu* nrrvr%
thum^elves^ and the brain, are An elal^rau*
ivin> and RO ultimately we hear. The more
ca! energy there happens tr* be in the
from which the sound h prtHJuc^J. the more
we hear, It m a lawful and quantitative rrtiibn*
Starting, then, with the attumptkw that the rcc*
ogntxed sen^e^ are the only port* nf fei*^wJr4%r the
conviction has grown upim mmt at * that min4
t^$ubkct to the law* vi ifa n^i
many* fSnpI "the infinitely c0cnpliVatrl
uf the brain *ulke in c^pbin tlwr
and myn^ric^ *>t m^nui life. A* i
<]ucncc of this trcru) of Umu^Ht, man hmncl?
cunte to be regarded m a vaxdy &fnp)icairdl ma*
chine admittedly unc that i* cun^im** ot*
and ahout which imny thingi arc nil) myit?mt
we like it or mn, our fint pri4*!cm >.%
A FUNDAMENTAL QUESTION REOPENED 7
5eule the truth or error of this doctrine, and face
the truth when it is
ultimately established.
Apparently the only way the question can be
Jccided is to find out whether or not the recognized
senses are the* only channels through which the
mind can perceive, Suppose we assume for a mo-
ment that they are not. Suppose, to use another
figure, the old frontiers of the mind that bound it
by the limits of the recognized senses are not the
true limits of the human personality in its universe*
If we could prove this clearly and beyond dispute,
if we could free the mind from the absolute restric-
tions of the mechanism of the senses, the effect upon
the science of the mind psychology and upon
man's whole view of himself would be almost too
great to conjecture.
AH of u* are naturally on guard against ideas so
revolutionary that they upset our thinking, and
wisely so. But the urge to explore our inner nature,
to know where we belong in the cosmic system
about us, wilt not iet us rest until we find out the
troth, whatever it is. And that truth must be estab-
lished, before we can accept it, upon actual experi-
mentation, critically and deliberately conducted,
which yields results that leave only one passible
interpretation.
The experiments described in this narrative of
8 NI;W I'RONnriis or Tiir MIND
research in oxir laboratory at Duke University were
undertaken with the express purpose uf cornering
the problem of whether anything enter* the mir.d
by a route other than the rccojcni/cd n?n*vs. The
answer which thov experiments Iwvj yieUlcii inu *
he weighed c.ireHaI!y, and by wch person in ac-
cordance with his own IUMS tor {tiJjtmcaT. h 5< .tn
answer tlut is frankly presented as only u K*r:*nnhi>;
on the jcrxMt problcni with which our work lu% been
concerned*
The research described in the pa^c which
is stilt going on actively and cm a comuntK
front* Those who rmd ttlm report of if* tmt
will, 1 htipe^ share M?meihini* of the xi'nuinc ixcif? -
meat and joy of adventure which we wh> are rn
gaged in the cxplorjiimt arc experiencing
CHAPTER II
From Experiences to Experiments
THFJIK IS A COMMON BELIEF AMONG ALL PEOPLE
ttut the reports of the recognized senses are not the
only ones which the mind ever receives. Through
all she ages of recorded history men have believed
in the validity of intuitions, "hunches," mind read-
ing, monitions or warnings of various sorts, and
similar apparent manifestations of the mind's power
to penetuie beyond the bounds of the mechanical
ami sensory world* Of course these beliefs have no
place in the catalogues of scientific knowledge, and
they are today quite widely supposed to be sheer
nipmtition, error, or various forms of self-delu-
sion.
Yet even if a traditional belief has no standing,
in science it may be used by an investigator a* an
mfilicttaon of where to look for something new and
important* In hi* work of research the
beRim with something which he cannot
. It challenges htm to find out about it, and
science i* mainly a way of finding out things,
t
10 NEW FKONTIEKS OF THE MIND
2
When I was a boy in the mountains of Pennsyl-
vania, belief in omens, warnings, or messages from
unseen agencies was not uncommon among the peo-
ple of the region* I remember hearing many stories
of that unusual character which is loosely called
"psychic** and which involved the acquiring of in-
formation without the use of the known senses.
My father, however, was wholesomely skeptical of
all such beliefs and tales; he taught me to dismiss
them as superstitious nonsense* His attitude was
one common to intelligent men in general, not only
of his own time but of the present, particularly in
various fields of science; and nothing in my early
education encouraged me to any belief or even in*
tcrcst in such affairs.
Later, when I was a graduate student at a large
university, one of my most respected science pro-
fessors related a typical psychic occurrence to
which he had been in part an eyewitness. The story,
one of "seeing" beyond the range of the seti&cs, of
a vision apparently clairvoyant, is a good one of
its kind, and I give it as it was vividly impressed an
my memory twenty years ago:
"Our family was awakened late one night by a
neighbor who wanted to borrow a horse and buggy
to drive nine miles to a neighboring village. The
man said, apologetically, that his wife had been
wakened by a horrible dream about her brother
FROM EXPERIENCES TO EXPERIMENTS 11
who lived In that village. It had so disturbed her
that she insisted he drive over at once to see if it
was true* He explained that she thought she had
seen this brother return home, take his team to the
barn, unharness the animals, and then go up into
the haymow and shoot himself with a pistol. She
saw him pull the trigger and roll over in the Lay,
down a little incline into a corner. No reassurance
could persuade her that she had only had a night-
mare* My father lent them a buggy (it was before
the day of telephones) and they drove to her
brother's house. There they found his wife still
awaiting her husband's return, unaware of any
disaster.
"They went to the barn and found the horses un-
harnessed* They climbed to the haymow, and there
was the body in the spot the sister had described
from her dream. The pistol was lying in the hay
where it would have fallen if it had been used as
die had indicated and if the body had afterward
rolled down the incline. It seemed as though she had
dreamed every detail with photographic exactness*
I was only a boy then, but it made an impression
on me IVc never forgotten. I can't explain it and
I've never found anyone else who could,** the pro-
fessor concluded*
His story puzzled and impressed me when I
heard it, and it has remained in my mind long years
after most of the things he taught in class have
been forgotten. It is not the story alone that I have
12 NETff" FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
remembered, but the fact that the man who told it,
himself a teacher and a scientist, though clearly im-
pressed by the occurrence, had no explanation
whatever to offer; that he had lived all the years of
his manhood believing such a thing had occurred
and had done nothing, even to satisfy his own curi-
osity, about it*
At that time I had never before heard so clear-
cut and impressive a psychic story, certainly not
from a person of such intellectual standing, a scien-
tist with an international reputation. As a scientist
he was an indefatigable worker* He would have
been the first to utilize for study and investigation
any new fact that came to his attention in his own
department of knowledge or one allied to it. But
this startling incident, which seemed to point so
definitely to possible revolutionary facts in the in-
terpretation of the working of the mind, he could
allow to lie uninvcstigated throughout hi* lifetime.
We graduate students did the same* We heard
the story. We were impressed by the possibilities it
suggested* We believed the facts, for we knew that
the man who told it was as sane and balanced a*
anybody anywhere, and one whose scrupulous per-
sonal, as well as scientific, honesty was unques-
tioned. We did not accuse him even of unconscious
exaggeration due to bad memory. We could not
explain the story either but still we did not dfo
anything about it* 1 know now that the reason was
that, after all, we did not fundamentally believe
FROM EXPERIENCES TO EXPERIMENTS 13
it. TSTe did not know how we disbelieved it, since we
did not doubt the professor's truthfulness. But one
simply could not believe a story like that.
It can be said in extenuation that our group of
graduate students were not psychologists. Such a
story was not "in our line," nor were we competent
to weigh and pass upon strange happenings in the
realm of the mind* But if the story had been told to
a group of psychologists, would their reaction have
been different? Would they have pondered this
strange occurrence, discerning in it a possible key
to a revolutionary concept of the human mind?
No, they would have disbelieved it too. They might
have been .somewhat more specific in their disbelief*
Perhaps they wouid have said, "Ah, but he has no
documentary evidence, no independent witnesses.
Me can't prove it/* And so they, too, would have
dismissed the story.
$uj
v
pose the professor had been able to hand over
signed letters from the people concerned, suppose
he haJ had real, objective proof that the facts
of the occurrence were as he told them, would that
have made any difference? Would his story even
then have revolutionized science? Of course not.
Somehow it would still have been questioned.
A more recent and better witnessed example of
this same kind of thing is a story lately told in a
public address by a well-known college president,
a man whom no erne who knew htm would accuse
of falsehood. He aid that he dreamed very vividly
ewe night of an old schoolmate. He had not heard
14 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
from this man for many years. The dream, however,
was so vivid that it stayed in his mind after he woke
up. He told his family about it at breakfast and
said he would like to write a letter to his old school-
mate. A few days later he received a letter from the
man, saying that he was writing after all these
years because the night before (it proved to be the
night of the college president's dream) the writer
had had such a vivid dream of his old friend that he
could not resist the impulse to send him a letter!
In this case there were independent witnesses
in the other members of the family who heard the
story of the dream at the breakfast table, and the
letter itself was documentary dated evidence. Case*
like this with even more and better documentary
evidence are not lacking. To anyone making a study
of such strange and inexplicable happenings it
quickly becomes evident that both these stories arc
fairly common instances of a large group or class
of inexplicable events. Both stories imply the ex-
istence of strange* unrecognized powers of mind
which we ought to know about if they are facts.
But, however much we may be impressed, mou
of us are still skeptical* Scientists arc almost tun*
to be so*
Since the college presidents story lus support-
ing evidence, some other way to avoid believing ir
must be found. Perhaps these two old eU^matet
received alumni bulletins from their school on the
same day. Possibly this led their thoughts in the
FROM EXPERIENCES TO EXPERIMENTS 15
same direction and in the semiconsciousncss of sleep
caused each to dream of the other. Unlikely as this
explanation may sound, it is a way to avoid believ-
ing anything so unsettling as that these two minds
established contact in spite of distance and the limi-
tations of the senses, stirred up old memories, and
caused each to write the other the next day.
It would make small difference even if it were
possible to prove that no such alumni bulletin ex-
isted, or any other factor common to both men
which could have revived old memories and caused
them to dream alike* The scientific world and per-
haps a large part of the lay public would still be
skeptical The resources of skepticism are almost
infinite. Consider, for instance, another kind of
case, this one, too, drawn from many similar ones*
The $tory was told me by the wife of a college
professor. One afternoon she was playing bridge
at due home of a friend* Suddenly she had an im-
pulse to interrupt the game, go to the telephone,
and call up her maid to ask if her baby was all right.
She fell: that she should not even finish the hand
she was playing, but could think of no excuse to
justify an interruption to her fellow players* With
a severe struggle she was able to keep herself under
control until the hand was finished. Then she ex-
cused herself hurriedly, rushed to the telephone,
called her maidt and asked anxiously about the
baby. The maid replied that the child was all right.
Comforted, she returned to the game. When she
16 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
got back to her house a short time later she found
a number of neighbors there. The maid, very apol-
ogetic, met her at the door, uneasily explaining that
there was nothing wrong with the child but that, a
moment before the telephone call came, she had
fallen from her carriage, fcfcen caught by her heels,
and was hanging head downward. How long she
had hung there no one knew exactly, but a police-
man had happened by and rescued her* The neigh-
bors, attracted by the accident* had advised the
maid to say nothing over the telephone that would
disturb the mother, since the child was actually all
right by that time.
The facts in this case are unquestionable. The
person to whom it happened told me the* story at
first hand* She gave me the names of several
people who could verify the events at both ends of
the telephone conversation* In this case, urn, there
does not seem to have been any preceding event
that could have led up to the occurrence and caused
it to happen at just that particular moment. The
principle of the common reminder which we con-
ceived as possible in the case of the college president
and his friend could have no application here* Nev-
ertheless, there is a way around believing that the
predicament of the child could have reached the
mother, who was far beyond range of Mglu and
hearing* Perhaps it may not be regarded as a plaus-
ible one, but it must be recognized: coincidence.
Even though the mother was not in the habit of
FROM EXPERIENCES TO EXPERIMENTS 17
calling up her maid when she was away from home,
and had never done so before on this kind of im-
pulse, even though she assures me that ordinarily
she had ample confidence in her maid, there is still
the possibility that the whole thing could have been
an accidental coincidence* however unlikely that
may seem.
3
"Chance coincidence** is a convenient answer
to most reports of mysterious, puzzling, and appar-
ently inexplicable occurrences. The letters that
cross in the mail? Chance! The friend who calls on
the telephone while one is looking up his number?
Again, chance! The people one unexpectedly meets
in strange places after thinking of them? A coin-
cidence!
"Just chance" is a convenient explanation, and
one that usually cannot be controverted, though it
a very unsatisfactory one. For layman as well as
scientist it is always easier, and safer too, to be skep-
tical and conservative and to wait for proof before
believing any fact which threatens to upset estab-
lished beliefs.
However, remarkable stones ore reported of in-
explicable occurrences which even the "just
chance** hypothesis has extreme difficulty in cover-
ing* One of my colleagues told me a story which
wa* partly verified by correspondence, and which
probably could be verified completely if it were
18 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
essential This story again is a type so common that
almost everyone has heard a similar one.
A banker in a western state whose father was
living in Alsace went to his office one morning and
told the assembled board of directors the following
story: The evening before, at about eight o'clock,
he had picked up Willa Gather's Deafb Comes to
the Archbishop* He had read the novel before, but
now he turned, for no specific reason, to the de-
scription of the death of the archbishop and reread
it. As he read, tears came to his eyes* and he was
overcome by uncontrollable weeping. This seemed
strange as he had not been so moved when he read
the book the first time* He then remembered that
the only other time he had wept since childhood
had been at the death of his mother. He thought it
might mean that his father had died, though he
had no reason to imagine that there was any special
danger of that's happening. Nevertheless, he made
a notation of the exact time this conviction came
over him. It was 8:10.
After relating the experience to his board of di-
rectors he wrote to his son, in another cit>% telling
him about it and giving his own interpretation.
When, later, he was notified of the death of his
father and learned the exact time he found! that,
with proper correction for longitudinal differences
the day was the same and the lime within a quar-
ter hour of his notation of the experience*
In this case the evidence for spontaneous knowl-
FROM EXPERIENCES TO EXPERIMENTS 19
edge of an event happening thousands of miles away
in Afsace is excellent. It is extremely difficult to
doubt all the persons and papers involved. It is hard
to suppose that there was some unconsciously used
source of information, a recognition that at a cer-
tain season of the year a fatal illness might be likely
to occur, or that the celebration of a particular
occasion an anniversary or birthday might have
proved too much for the father. In this, as in so
many other cases that could be cited, it seems al-
most* if not entirely, impossible to find any reason-
able way to avoid facing the idea that somehow
the mind does sometimes traverse space and grasp
things which the senses cannot perceive* The only
escape is to cling to the hypothesis of coincidence.
Why is it that such a story does not revolutionize
people's thinking about the human mind and its
place in the world of space? Why are not psychol-
ogists eagerly snatching up the best of these stories
and trying to fit them into a pattern to see what
they mean? Entomologists with a new bug or beetle,
geologises with & strange outcrop of rock, archaeol-
ogists with a newly located ruin to excavate, are
eager to study and organize and classify. Yet the
psychologists as a group ignore these strange occur-
rences m the realm of the mind. Only a few of
them will even listen to stories of this kind, and
the nonscicntific world in general considers it more
sensible to pay as little attention as possible. How-
ever impressive the evidence offered, it is easier, in
20 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
general, to dismiss such a case, as my old professor
did, simply by saying, "I can't explain it."
When many well-authenticated reports of such
unusual occurrences are compiled (as they have
been frequently, both here and in Europe) , when
these anecdotes have been sorted into types, classi-
fied and corroborated, the impression they make
upon even the critical reader is considerable. On
the other hand, few persons possessed of normal
skepticism are compelled to a deep and moving be-
lief in them. They are not of necessity led to sup-
pose some extra-sensory way of knowing. They can
still dismiss the whole business by saying, "I can't
explain it/*
This is because it is difficult to take these spon-
taneous happenings with full seriousness. If they
arc firsthand experiences, they may be harder to
dismiss than if they are merely reported by *0me~
body else; even so they usually are dismissed with-
out any explanation. There is no way of coming
to grips with them* They happen and arc Rone,
leaving nothing but memory, none of the hard
reality of a meteorite or a fossil.
What is needed to give them that sort of hard
reality? The answer of science is this; Wh?n a group
of facts or of alleged facts can be checked* repro-
duced at the wiH'of an experimenter, varied and
FROM EXPERIENCES TO EXPERIMENTS 21
measured and tested, they take on an enormously
increased reality. In this day of experimental science
nothing so penetrates the skepticism that safeguards
one's belief as the ability to produce at will, and to
vary at will, the phenomena about whose objective
reality there is doubt*
For this reason, then, if a scientific investigator
a psychologist or anyone else wants to find out
whether the human mind can upon occasion know
things in a psychic or extra-sensory manner, he
must turn from spontaneous cases of psychic
occurrences, regardless of how interesting and dra-
matic they are, to definite, systematic experimenta-
tion. He mast try to discover by repeated test, by
careful laboratory techniques, whether there is any-
thing behind the circumstances related in these
stories. In short, the material within this field must
be taken from the anecdotal stage to that of ex-
perimentation before it can be classified as scien-
tific knowledge*
Yet, in passing from the anecdotal stage of this
study to the experimental it is only fair to rec-
ognize what we owe to the anecdotes themselves*
They have awakened interest in many minds, made
an impression, raised the question as to whether or
not there is some meaning behind them. They
have made it evident that there is a problem for
investigation, Certainly there could be no conceiv-
able harm in making an investigation of these stories
and their significance or lack of it* Any expert-
22 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
mental investigation is bound to be a profitable one,
even if it yields negative results. If it revealed* in
this case, an important principle of nature mani-
festing itself in psychic occurrences and not yet
catalogued by scientific knowledge, the search
would surely have been worth while* And if the in-
vestigation proved that these episodes represent
standard types of self-delusion inherent in the
make-up of a great many people, that fact alone
would constitute a real addition to knowledge as
well as a salutary disillusionment.
CHAPTER III
Half a Century of Research
THIS BELIEF IN THE VALUE OF THE INVESTIGATION,
regardless of whether the findings were positive or
negative, was in all our minds when we began our
research at Duke in the year 1930. "We recognized
that if psychic stories had any basis in fact there
must be in the human mind a power or powers
which could learn things without employing the
ordinary sensory avenues of information. We began
to call this ability to perceive things without using
the senses "extra-sensory perception/* It is a term
that will occur often in this book.
We were far from being the first investigators
to attack the problem of whether or not extra-
sensory perception is a fact. An enormous amount
of work was available for preliminary inspection,
work that was of value in suggesting points of
attack and methods of operation and, in a negative
way, in warning us of the pitfalls into which some
of the researches prior to our own had fallen* To
understand the nature of our own approach to the
problem of the existence of extra-sensory percep-
tion the reader must necessarily have some knowl-
edge of what had gone before.
21
24 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
2
Anecdotes of psychic experience had failed to
make an impression on the world of intelligent
science, but so, too, had the results of lifty years
or more of actual experimentation. The anecdotes
themselves had led to collection and classification
of psychic instances, and these collections in turn
had suggested a number of theories. Theories had
naturally led to experimentation, and actual re-
search work on unusual powers of the mind had
been going on for half a century and in a number
of countries. Theories of telepathic thought trans-
ference, "mind reading/* were most often found
among the English investigators. The hypothesis of
a sixth* or unknown or hidden, sense was popular
among the French, from whom comes the word
"clmnroyance" "perceiving beyond the limits of
the known senses/*
The word "clairvoyance" has come to have so
many unscientific associations that it may at first
offend some readers to find it in this book. But:
it is used here purely in the seme in which I have
defined it. Nothing is implied by it beyond evi-
dence of knowledge which under the condition*
could not have been gained through the recog-
nized senses* FftjdejjeiM My^r^ yho jconstructed
thffi
*KMd
^fflft^h^
the word
u
tclesthesia
n
as ft companion term to be
used in the sense irT which we speak heft of cbir-
HALF A CENTURY OF RESEARCH 25
voyance. For the general reader, however, it has
the disadvantages of unfamiliarity and a highly
technical sound, so it seems wisest to rely upon a
careful definition of the basic, original meaning of
clairvoyance.
But with all the half century of "psychic re-
search,** as the subject was called in England, there
was little advance in the conquest of the scientific
world, whatever real merits the work may have
had* It is doubtful indeed if there were as many be-
lievers in telepathy or clairvoyance in 1930 as there
had been in 1880. Also, it seemed doubtful whether,
at the rate and in the way such research was pro-
ceeding, scientific recognition would ever come.
The past fifty years, as we have now recognized
quite generally, was a highly mechanistic period,
especially inhospitable to claims that did not easily
fit into its intellectual pattern. Psychological jour*
ndfo have not been ready to print articles on te-
lepathy and clairvoyance, and the evidence for them
has been presented through easily ignored channels,
But perhaps the most telling reason for the failure
of the evidence to secure public confidence is that
it has shown merely that these phenomena do occur,
and almost nothing mom* None of the work had
gone far enough to show what might be the nature
of such unorthodox phenomena* to find their rela-
tions or laws, or even the conditions tinder which
they may be demonstrated. Even so> on a less revo-
lutionary topic the proof would long ago have been
26 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
strong enough; but with this subject, where doubt
is intense to begin with, proof plus plausibility is
necessary* To make plausible a new and strange
type of phenomenon, it must be connected with the
already known; in other words, it must be "nat-
uralized."
The earliest attempts at experimentation were
fragmentary, and there is ground for skepticism
in connection with them* The first were bound up
with the history of mesmerism. During the last
quarter of the eighteenth century a German physi-
cian named Mesmer, then practicing in Vienna,
made the tremendously important discovery that
one person can influence another mentally in a
curious and at that time wholly unknown way* This
type of influence Mcsmcr named "animal magnet-
ism**; those after him called it "mesmerism*" and
it has become well known to us today as "hypno-
tism." In recent years it has advanced to a respect*
able place among recognized psychological realities.
Dr. Mesmcr himself reported at least one instance
of apparent extra-sensory perception, This was in
itself a trivial incident; one of !m patients in a
trance was able to locate a lost dog. She "*AW" it in
her mesmerized state*
Among some of Mesmer's followers it became a
common practice to rely upon this supposed ability
for the diagnosis of and prescription for di*ea<e and
the location of lost objects* The mesmerized sub-
ject believed he saw the invisible organ or distant
HALF A CENTURY OF RESEARCH 27
and concealed object although the senses themselves
could not have been of help. Biit the very precau-
tions needed for this line of investigation are con-
spicuously absent from the reports available, and
this makes any conclusion hazardous.
After the mesmerists, some of the hypnotists took
over the earlier view that the mind could go out
through space and bring back knowledge of events
which the senses could not possibly reveal or the
reason infer. They even left reports of hypnotiza-
tion at a distance, which would have required te-
lepathy after the manner of Svengali in the story
Trilhy.
The fact is that some of the early experiments
with psychic phenomena were carried out by med-
ical men in good standing or by scientific men from
the universities,, but that was not by any means
enough to make the subject acceptable to the gen-
eral body of scientific men. When Professor (later
Sir) William Barrett* a physicist from the Royal
College at Dublin, read a report of his experiments
on hypnottzatton and extra-sensory transfer of
thought before the British Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science in 1876, his paper was
received with open ridicule and was refused publi-
cation in the Proceedings of the Association. This
refusal was not on the ground chat vital flaws were
found in his experiments, but rather because to
scientists of that day such things as he reported were
totally incredible*
28 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
In the eighties and nineties many university men
became interested in the problem of extra-sensory
perception* but at that time there was no university
that would admit the problem within its walls as
a project for academic research* Much of the gen-
uinely novel exploration that calls for going be-
yond existing lines of respected knowledge in any
department has had to be done entirely outside of
university halls or quietly in some inconspicuous
corner of the academic attic,"
There is a good deal to be said in defense of the
universities on this point* It is essential that they
maintain respect and prestige* and to do so they
must be conservative. Because of this unrecoptivc
attitude on the part of universities a group of
scholars who wished to work on telepathy and kin-
dred subjects in the eighties formedin England
and later in America societies to foster research in
this field. The English Society for Psychic,*! Re-
search was founded in 1882 with the declared
intention of investigating thought transference, tel-
csthesia, hypnotism, the phenomena of spiritualitm,
and allied fields. Through the succeeding years the
Society has followed its ideals of scholarly snvcttiga-
tion of these subjects and in spite of many handicaps
has contributed some careful experimental studies
on the problem of extra-sensory perception and re-
lated lines, But while it has won recognition and
support from many individual scientists, partiot*
HALF A CENTURY OF RESEARCH 29
larly in England, it has not carried the day with
the scientific world, which in the main has paid
small attention to the Society and its publications.
What the Society has done is to carry the torch
of experimentation from the storytelling, pre-
Society period up to the present day, when it be-
gins to look as though the universities will accept
it and carry it on*
3
The earliest report made by members of the Eng-
lish Society for Psychical Research was a study of
the Crecry sisters* There were five of these girls,
daughters of a clergyman in England. They showed
such striking capacity to guess words, numbers, ob-
jects at which another person was looking that the
father wrote to the new Society and asked to have
an investigator come and study their case. Profes-
sor Barrett and a number of other prominent Brit-
ish men of learning took part in the investigation
that followed*
The investigators selected a playing card* num-
ber, or similar object while the girl being tested was
out of the room* Then they called her in and asked
her to name the thing they had in mind. At first the
proportion of successes was astonishingly high*
Tests were carried out on various occasions over a
period of a year or more* On the later occasions the
successes* though still more than one would expect
30 'NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
from chance, fell off considerably from their orig-
inal number. (The reader may wonder how scores
in this type of test may be considered high or low
in relation to chance or luck. The evaluation is a
relatively easy one and will be presented in full
later in this book.)
Toward the end of the investigation, during a
period of comparatively unsuccessful work, the in-
vestigators detected the girls in the act of trying
to signal each other* It is typical of the necessity for
extreme caution in investigating extra-sensory phe-
nomena that die mere fact of the girls* communi*
eating with each other was enough to discredit the
investigation as scientific evidence* No one has been
able to discover grounds for discarding the better
part of the work, since the girls did not know what
object they were supposed to perceive iclepaiht-
cally. Then, too, it is a poor kind of cheating which
grows worse with practice, and the sisters had been
most successful at the beginning of the investiga-
tion. Yet the mere presence of trickery even such
pointless and ineffective trickery as the Creery
sisters apparently attempted casts a doubt over
every aspect of the case*
Professor Charles Richet, a dittingtmhcd phy-
siologist of the Facultc de Medecine at the Univer-
sity of Paris experimented with a hypnotic subject
called Leonie. He found that she could call correctly
an amazingly large number of playing cards sealed
HALF A CENTURY OF KJESEARCH 31
in opaque envelopes; that is, she could do so in Paris.
When brought to England to demonstrate before
a group of Englishmen she was unable to produce
significant work. That was sufficient to satisfy
some persons that there had been a flaw in her
achievements In Paris. But we must in fairness grant
that something like stage fright may have affected
Leome. Perhaps a French composer could not have
written an acceptable sonata under such conditions
in England either, with a committee scrutinizing
every move- But no quarter can be granted to a
claim so difficult to prove as that made for Leonie
by Professor Richet. The critical public has felt
little confidence In the ability of experimenters to
deal with the possibilities of trickery. Obviously the
most highly watchful attitude is justified on a point
so important as this.
In addition to the Creery case there is another
early study of telepathy that illustrates this neces-
sity* die work done with G* A. Smith by the experi-
menters of the English Society for Psychical
Research. Smith was a hypnotist, and he hypnotized
subjects for work in tests for thought transference.
In some of these cases the hypnotized person and
the experimenter, or person supposed to be "send-
ing" the telepathic impulse, were in separate rooms.
Blocks fram the old game of lotto were used to
supply the numbers to be guessed, so that the value
of die results was easily calculated. It was a great
32 NEV ^FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
blow to the research when Smith later claimed that
he had deceived the experimenters. It is hard to see
how he could have, if the conditions were as re-
ported.
Trickery need not be conscious an order to be
effective, or voluntary in order to be a danger to
an experiment* When Professor A* Lchmann a
Danish psychologist, raised the question as to
whether "involuntary whispering" could explain
the English Society's results in thought transfer-
ence he showed that involuntary whispering did
occur with some people when they were thinking
intently and that under certain circumstances
which he devised in his laboratory others could be
guided by it.
Professor Lehmann, however, was a thoroughly
open-minded critic, and when Professors Henry
Sidgwick, of Cambridge, and William Jam**$ of
Harvard, pointed out that this criticism could not
have been a valid one in the experiments con-
cerned, especially in those in which there was a
closed door between the subject and the sender of
the thought, he recognized that his theory could
not hold and that thought transference mmt be the
explanation of the results*
But Professor Lehmann's conversion it relatively
exceptional, and the great body of experimentation
conducted by research societies in France, Germany,
England, and America did not succeed In gaining &
substantial foothold in the scientific world.
HAJLF A CENTURY OF RESEARCH 33
4
The first attempt by a university to grapple with
this problem only gave the subject a further set-
back. About twenty-five years ago Stanford
University received a large endowment for the pro-
motion of psychic research, and Professor John E.
Coover was put in charge. In 1917 he published a
60Q~page volume reporting the conclusion that, in
the subjects he tested, thought transference was not
jgrcsent*
The size and detail of the report gave it
the appearance of being exhaustive, and the fact
that it was done in a university of good standing
and in a department of psychology had the effect
of delivering a crushing blow to the remnant of in-
terest still existing among scientific men. Coover's
work became the classic investigation of psychic
phenomena for those university circles in contact
with the subject of psychic research. It was re-
garded as an authoritative scientific treatment of
rhe subject.
Professor Coover
f
s expertness was apparently
demonstrated by an elaborate statistical evaluation
of his results, and there seemed no further point in
investigating extra-sensory perception* There the
matter rested for a number of yeats- Then various
other persons five to my present knowledgein-
dependent!/ re-evaluated by standard procedtires
the results of Professor Coove*'$ experiments in
34 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
thought transference. They are unanimous in the
conclusion that he is mistaken, that his results are
not, as he thought, explainable by chance alone, and
that he did in fact unwittingly have evidence in
favor of thought transference.
Another pioneer among the American psychol-
ogists who have made investigations in this sphere
was the late Dr* Edward B. Titchener, well-known
psychologist of Cornell University. He wrote a
paper in which he reported some tests conducted to
find out whether people could tell reliably when
they were being stared at from behind. He con-
cluded that they could not, and also reached some
negative conclusions on the possibility of conveying
images telepathically.
According to one of Dr. Titchener** PLD. grad-
uates, he was afraid to trust the laws of chance. He
was not familiar with the methods for statistical
evaluation* "On one occasion, this graduate re-
ports, "a subject called almost entirely correctly
down through a pack of playing cards, naming
both suit and rank. Professor Titchener was dis-
appointed that the subject did not get every one
correct. Only a perfect score would have convinced
him of the reality of thought transference/
1*
It may have been, then, through inapplication
and misapplication of statistical method that these
HALF A CENTURY OF RESEARCH 3*
two investigations were fruitless for the advance-
ment of the subject in university circles. The next
case in the history of university explorations into
perception without the recognized senses fortu-
nately did not suffer the same fate.
In 1920 that explorer of many fields, Professor
William McDougall, came to America. At Har-
vard he discovered, lying in idleness, a fund for the
support of psychic research and he put it to work,
with Dr. Gardner Murphy and, later, Dr. G, H.
Estabrooks as investigators. Although Murphy's
work did not lead him to conclusive, publishable re-
sults, it made him an inveterate investigator of these
problems. Estabrooks, however, in an experimental
series that is beyond serious criticism, got results
that seemed clearly indicative of telepathy. He used
a large number of subjects, each of whom guessed
playing cards for about half an hour. He placed
subject and sender in separate rooms. The ready
signal was given by a telegraph key which clicked
every twenty seconds during the experiment. The
subject wrote down the name of the first card that
occurred to him after the click. The sender, at the
same instant, was concentrating on a card chosen
by a random cut from a shuffled pack before him.
At the end of a large series of trials the results,
while not extremely far above chance, were high
enough to prove statistically that something more
than random factors was affecting them. The con-
ditions adequately excluded any kind of sensory
36 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
knowledge. The conclusion that there had been a
certain amount 01 thought transference seems in-
escapable* Few scientific people know of this work,
although it was done at Harvard University under
the supervision of a world-famous psychologist.
When considered seriously it is one of the most
revolutionary accomplishments in the history of
psychology, if not in the history of science; and yet
no report of it appeared in a single psychological
journal.
There is a still more precise experimental per-
formance reported by Professors Henri Brugmans
and Gerardus Heymans at the University of Gron-
ingen* In their psychological laboratory they found
a young man who seemed to show an unusual ca-
pacity for thought transference. Esubrooks had
worked with anyone he could induce to come into
his laboratory, but Brugmans first selected from a
larger group the most promising subject and then
concentrated his experiments upon him alone. Also*
instead of placing sender and receiver in two rooms
on the same floor, Bntgmam stationed them in
rooms one above the other with a hole in the ceiling
between them covered by two layers of plate jtlatii*
with an air chamber between to prevent ptwible
sound cues* Through this plate-glass aperture the
sender looked down on the hands of the receiver*
who was seated at a table below, Hie latter was
blindfolded and a heavy curtain screened his eyes
from the table and the ceiling. On the table lay a
HALF A CENTURY OF RESEARCH 37
checkerboard with forty-eight squares. While the
receiver held a pointer in his hand, which was thrust
through the screening curtain, the sender at-
tempted to "will" the receiver to move the pointer
to a specified square. Where chance or luck would
have resulted in about 4 accurate indications of
the square mentally selected by the sender in 180
trials, the actual scores ran up to the extraordinary
total of 60*
It is difficult to find anything wrong with the
technical details of this work. But it, too, was not
published in a psychological journal, not was it
seriously regarded by psychologists* Like Esta-
brooks's work, it appeared only in the journals of
psychic research organizations.
Another remarkable study which failed to gain
recognition from psychologists in spite of its being
one of the best and most unusual that have ever
been reported was one made by the author, Upton
Sinclair* Although professional scientists largely
disregarded it, Sinclair described the experiments in
a book entitled Mental Radio. The basic phenome-
non which he had to report was the transfer, prob-
ably by telepathy, of images of drawings* One
person, usually Sinclair himself, concentrated upon
the particular drawing, while the receiver, Mrs, Sin-
clair, attempted to reproduce the image in the
sender's mind. The comparisons between the orig-
inal drawings and the images reproduced by the
receiver are amazing in their correlation, but the
38 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
experiment was not carried out under laboratory
conditions. In fairness to Sinclair's work, however,
it must be admitted that in this case such a distinc-
tion was a comparatively superficial one.
Although a highly critical group of scientists may
possibly be forgiven for discriminating against an
extra-academic study like Sinclair's, it is harder to
understand how the work of Estabrooks and Brug-
mans could be passed over as casually as it was.
Neither then nor now could anything fundamen-
tally damaging to the good faith and scientific
regularity of their work be said. It was not answered
effectively by any member of the scientific fra-
ternity. The reason for that may be that people,
no matter how logical and scientific they aspire to
be, do not have enough confidence in scientific
method to trust a fact established by it ##/***$ they
can in some measure undentand that fact and fit
it into the general pattern of their other beliefs*
As a rule, a new and unexplained phenomenon *
hard to believe in proportion as it is hard to under*
stand.
The trouble with the early researches was that
even if they established the fact of perception be-*
yond the senses, they did not succeed 5n relating it
appreciably to the rest of scientific knowledge. And
so* it seems to me, the early work was largely lost
HAUF A CENTURY OF RESEARCH 39
so far as the world of science was concerned be-
cause It did not go far enough into the nature of
the phenomenon reported.
This is necessarily the barest outline of the ex-
periments which had been conducted prior to the
start of the Duke research. In the sum total they
were impressive, but as a whole they had failed to
convince scientists or the world in general. Beyond
the task of establishing the fact of perception with-
out the use of any recognized sense, it remained
for any future research to answer the questions:
"What is the nature of extra-sensory perception?
How does it work? Where does it fit into the scheme
of things?"
CHAPTER IV
The Start of the Duke Experiments
INT 1930, NO AMERICAN UNIVKRSIfY WAS INVl'STl-
gating extra-sensory perception. VThen the four
members of the Duke psychology department de-
termined to study telepathy and clairvoyance as
one of their laboratory research problems it was
the first time in the history of the subject that such
a concerted attack had been made upon it by a
group of university staff members, and the first
time that a college department of psychology had
given so much attention to the problem.
In any well-established branch of research a dis-
cussion of the actual personnel which conducts it
is not necessary* for science is supposed to be largely
impersonal But in a pioneer project such as the
one upon which the four of us embarked, the per*
tonalities of the men concerned are of obvious im-
portance, if only to explain why they undertook
to examine a field in which no other psychology de-
partment appeared to be working. For that reason
I shall say a few words about these men. Professor
William McDougall, Dr. Helgc Lundholrn, and Dr.
Karl E* Zencr, and about the circumstances of the
origin of our co-operative research.
40
THE START OF THE DUKE EXPERIMENTS 41
2
Professor William McDougall, F.R.S., the head
of the department, is a veteran of many fields,
among them that of psychic research. From his
university days in Cambridge he was more or less
in touch with, and often a prominent figure in, the
work of the English Society for Psychical Research.
After coming to America in 1920 he was for a
time a leader in the American Society for Psychical
Research in the period when Dr. W. F. Prince was
Research Officer* He helped to found the Boston
Society for Psychic Research while he was a pro-
fessor of psychology at Harvard* He was one of
those asked by the Scientific American to render a
verdict on the Boston medium, Margery.
When he came from Oxford to Harvard in 1920,
Professor McDougall brought to American psy-
chology a breadth of viewpoint and a degree of
courage in attacking a wide field of problems which
were unique and somewhat daring. For example, he
reintroJuced hypnotism to psychologic research.
Until he did so, it had been practically abandoned
to vaudeville demonstrations. The reader will re-
member that ic was this same fearless pioneer who
at: Harvard sponsored Murphy and Estabrooks in
their attempts to find evidence for telepathy.
Abo, he boldly launched a long and painstaking
research into a most unpopular theory of evolu-
tion. Although by that time biologists had almost
42 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
all rejected the old hypothesis of Lamarck (which
holds that characteristics acquired during the life
of the parents may be inherited by the offspring) in
favor of other theories more in keeping with the
mechanistic trend of the age, he did not hesitate to
reopen the question. With groups of rats which he
has trained patiently through forty generations and
seventeen years of investigation he is convinced that
he iinds unmistakable evidence that certain train-
ing effects are inheritable* Me has given his results
to science, regardless of the fact that in doing $o
he stands practically alone in his conclusion.
Further, when Dr. Joint B.
J^atsoi^ theory of
extreme behaviorisnT1[every human action and emo-
tion is mechanically determined by physical stimuli
and automatic nerve patterns, and the mental
process as such can be ignored) was so largely nar-
rowing and shadowing the American psychological
outlook, Professor McDougall stcxn! out as certainly
the leading champion of purposive psychology,
which holds that the mind is not only an .nctusl
system, but that in its goal-seeking or .striving char-
acter it causes people to behave us they do. I*'ew by-
men would ever suppose otherwise, since the casual
efficacy of mind is a common-sense view. But to the
behaviorists mind was a fiction, and io many other
mechanistic psychologists it was only a reflection or
idle accompaniment of nervous activity*
A knowledge of these facts about Professor
McDougall goes far to explain the Joint snveuiga*
THE START OF THE DUKE EXPERIMENTS 43
tion of telepathy and clairvoyance by the members
of his department* It is the unusual character of
his leadership, exerted not in the least as pressure,
but rather as inspiration, that largely explains the
fact that this work began at Duke and in its depart-
ment of psychology.
I used the word "inspiration" advisedly. The
three of us who constituted his staff had formerly
been Dn McDougalPs students, and the natural re-
spect we bore for his views led us to a certain open-
rnindcdncss toward his interest in "frontier" topics
such as telepathy and clairvoyance. All three recog-
nized these problems as legitimate for Investiga-
tion without committing ourselves in advance as
co what results to expect. The two men who soon
had to discontinue the investigation because of pres-
sure of other duties still retain their interested, in-
quiring attitude toward these phenomena.
There was, therefore, a genuine and unanimous
interest on the part of the members of the depart-
ment. Professor McDougall did not himself institute
any actual experimentation; his time was taken up
by the Lamarckian experiment, which was at that
time already ten years old* But he was always ready
to look into the work the rest of us were doing,
and throughout has been probably the research's
most interested observer* Many times an apropos
suggestion or a guiding hand from him has fore-
stalled misfortune. Has fifty years of contact with
psychic research gave the Duke experiments a back-
44 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
ground that could not have been found elsewhere.
The fact, too, that through his half-century ac-
quaintance with these problems he has kept his
scientific poise is of inestimable importance to the
dignity of the work* He has always been ready to
examine any evidence, but cautious in conclusions*
An investigation is enormously favored by having
such a sponsor.
Associate Professor Helge Lundholm was respon-
sible for the institution of one line of study which,
though relatively short-lived, is extremely impor-
tant in that it was the foundation for later, more
successful work. In the fall of 1930, as the result of
a discussion with Professor McDougall, ho proposed
applying tests for telepathic perception to students
either in hypnotic trance or after hypnotic treat-
ment designed to put the subject into a favorable
state of mind; that is posthypnotie condition- Dr.
Lunclhalm was himself an experienced hypnotist
and had done important research in connection with
it, It was understood that I would furnish the tech-
niques for the telepathic testing and Dr. Lundholm
would handle the hypnot&atbn* Hi* devotion to
the experiments* his patience through the long
hours required for the work, and the thoroughness
of hi* handling of the precautions made hi$ with*
drawal a real loss when, after several months anil
THE START OF THE DUKE EXPERIMENTS 4J
with the opening of a new semester, he found that
his other work would not permit him to continue.
\Ve began to work on telepathy with hypnotized
subjects because the early mesmerists and hypno-
tists had reported such unique results with them*
We thought possibly hypnotization would increase
any latent telepathic capacity in a subject and make
its demonstration easier, We had heard tales, too,
and read accounts of uncanny knowledge of dis-
tant events demonstrated by persons in the hyp-
notic trance, and wondered if these old stories
concealed a useful clue.
Our procedure was to begin by putting the sub-
ject into a hypnotic trance if we were able. With
most of the students who volunteered for the work
we fount! it possible to do so* After some prelim-
inary tests for the adequacy of his trance* the sub-
ject was given the suggestion that when he "awak-
ened" he was to get up from his couch, take a cer-
tain chair, and follow the instruction he would then
receive. He was assured that he would be able to
respond to what was in the experimenter's mind
without being told what it was. Dr. Lundholm then
brought the student out of the trance condition and
we proceeded with the tests themselves. In one series
of them the subject was asked to tell what number,
from to 9* or what letter of the alphabet the ex*
pcrimentt'r was thinking about* Another test em-
ployed a circle divided into eight sections similar
to the slices of a pic. The subject, in his posthypnotic
\6 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
:ondition, placed his finger in the center of the
:ircle and was told to move it to the particular seg-
nent o the circumference which the experimenter
lad mentally selected. We thought that perhaps
;uch a "motor response/* or action, might be an
easier form of response than speech, but it did not
vovc to be so.
The results of these experiments in posthypnotic
rclcpathy and clairvoyance were only slightly posi-
;ive, and at best could be considered merely en-
:ouraging. But under the stimulus of that modest
sncouragemcnt I went on with the work alone for
i while after Dr* Lundholm withdrew- Before then
L had learned the technique of hypnosis and was
it ill in hopes of finding a subject who would be
ible to duplicate the feats reported by the early
nesmerists*
Working with hypnotism is necessarily a slow
Business, and the results of our tests had to Ix? con-
stantly checked against similar tests conducted
without any hypnotic influence. These nnnhyp-
ictic scries produced results that were equally good,
md fully as encouraging as the ones conducted with
xmhypnotic subjects. Accordingly I tieciJcJ not to
xrther longer with the hypnotic technique, and to
.his day no one has determined cuncUwvely
whether hypnotism is of any service in the investi-
gation of extra-sensory phenomena* We found only
:hat we could get results more quickly without it.
THE START OF THE DUKE EXPERIMENTS 47
4
At almost the same time that Dr. Limdholm
broached the idea of our joint investigation into
hypnotism and extra-sensory perception my other
colleague, Dr, Karl E. Zener, had become interested
in a somewhat different type of work which had
conic to his attention. This important research had
been conducted by a member of the English Society
for Psychical Research, Miss Ina Jephson. Miss
jrphson had asked her subjects to guess the numbers
;ind suits of ordinary playing cards, and if we ac-
cepted the good faith of her subjects and the cor-
rect handling of the results* she appeared to have
established a good instance of clairvoyance, rather
ihan the telepathy on which we had been working.
Like Richct's work with Leonie, her experiments
suggested that an object might be perceived with-
out using the recognized senses, just as in telepathy
there was presumed to be a perception of a mental
n;wgc or state of mind in another person.
I, too, had been interested in Miss Jephson's ex-
periments, I had taken a small part in a repetition
of them in co-operation with Dr. Gardner Murphy
in New York* Therefore* when Dr. Zener sug-
gested that we repeat Miss Jephson's tests, with
some changes, I was again eager to participate. Dr.
Zcner's experience and personality were especially
suitable for co-operation in this work* His training
48 NEW FRONTIERS OK THE MXXD
and early research had been in the field of psychol-
ogy of perception sensory perception, of course
and he is characteristically a cautious and critical
man* His judgment was extremely helpful in the
choice of suitable means and methods of testing*
Cards seemed the most convenient sort of object
to use in these tests, but the problem of what sym-
bols to put on them had never been settled to our
full satisfaction. As a practical solution we decided
together on five simple*, easily distinguishable de-
signs: a plus or cross, circle, rectangle, star, and
three parallel wavy lines.'
1'
These figures represented
a compromise of the various points that had to be
considered.
Our aim, in fact, was to select forms as unlike as
possible, even in their parts* We wanted a small
enough number of kinds of symbols so that all of
them could easily be kept in the subjects' minds. On
the other hand, the more we used the greater the
advantage of variety*
The cards which Dr. 2ener and I <ievi<cJ became
far better known than either of us, at rlut time*
could have dreamed* At the stare of the work I
began c*tll$n# them "Zener cards*** and im*r on
when we changed two of the designs the card* were
christened "KSP cards." By that time we were em-
ploying the term "extra-sensory perception" (or
ESP for short) to describe the clairvoyance anJ tc-
* *ttw m**t rr#*it tm thrift, <inttmf *hV this Wfc *** in f *&*<?*
a
rvwKs tw Ti-sr CARDS. (TOP) EARLJISST SYMBOLS THE
7,!
;
,NIJ
,R CARDS. (BOTTOM) ESP CARDS, Z5 IN PACK.
THE START OF THE DUKE EXPERIMENTS 49
lepathy for which the cards served as a testing tech-
nique- It is by this name that they are known today,
and the cards of various types which we are now
using, and which have been made available to the
general public* have been modified and improved
from the original designs worked out by Dr. Zener
and myself.
At the beginning of our work we did not use
the newly devised cards exclusively. "We also em-
ployed others, such as those containing numbers
and letters of the alphabet which Dr. Lundholm
and I had used in the hypnosis work. But regardless
of the symbols on the particular cards, our method
of using them was to seal them all in opaque enve-
lopes and hand them out to students in our classes
with an invitation to attempt to name the cards
contained in the envelopes* The students were to
write down their choices and hand in the record.
Many of them were amused, and probably most
were politely skeptical. By no means all of them
ever carried out the instructions. But among those
who did though there were none who did ex-
tremely well a few had scores which stood out
well above the average. On the whole those averages
were close to what could be expected from chance
or luck alone, but we felt it was worth while to fol-
low up the few individuals who showed exceptional
scores- It was in this follow-up that the successful
trail was found*
Unfortunately, at this point I was once more to
50 NEVf' FRONTIERS OP THE MIXD
lose the companionship of a colleague in research.
Dr* Zener was too heavily burdened by other work
at this time to go on with the decidedly tedious
exploration required in the following up of the
individual tests* But again a foundation had been
laid. A few promising cases had been discovered
and something interesting was suggested* if not
assured*
The fourth member of the psychology staff at
Duke was, as the reader already knows, the author
of this book* In spite of having a great many other
things to do, including a regular, full-time teaching
schedule, I did not drop out of the research, and to
explain my persistence in it requires a discmsum of
how I came to be a psychologist and why I hap-
pened to be at Duke at this time- So many questions
have been asked about the reason for my interest
in this work, and how I came to acquire it, that; I
must answer a few of them with some details of
what had preceded my work at Duke*
It was with the definite purpose of undertaking
investigation into possible unknown capacities of
mind, the so-called psychic powers that 1 had first
got in touch with Professor McDoug^lL That was
in the early twenties, when he was at Harvard and
I was a graduate student in biology at the Univer-
sity of Chicago. My interest: in psychic research
THE START OF THE DUKE EXPERIMENTS 51
had grown out of my desire, common, I think, to
thousands of people, to find a satisfactory philos-
ophy of life, one that could be regarded as scientifi-
cally sound and yet could answer some of the urgent
questions regarding the nature of man and his place
in the natural world. Dissatisfied with the orthodox
religious belief which had at one time impelled me
toward the ministry and dissatisfied, except as a
last resort, with a materialistic philosophy, I was
obviously ready to investigate any challenging fact
that might hold possibilities of new insight into
human personality and its relations to the universe.
This same interest and curiosity had for a time
led me into a broad, restless search along the entire
frontier of science and philosophy. I had watched
hopefully the efforts of such religious leaders as
Shailcr Mathews to bring all modern science to the
aid of religion* They aimed, with the help of reli-
gious-minded scientists, to impress us all so deeply
with the great mystery of science itself that we
would feel religious about it. This left me cold.
The mysterious capacities claimed for the mind
by people engaged in psychic research promised
something, at bast. The mysteries of the atom or of
a distant star could not, at best, have much import
for those feelings which once had been religious,
But the common claims of psychic research en-
thusiasts arc the very substance of most religious
belief, stripped, of course, of theological trappings.
The primitives and ancients evidently had relied
52 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
greatly on the strange occurrences that today would
be called psychic in forming their concepts of man,
his spiritual make-up, and his powers over nature.
I wondered if we were throwing away too much in
outgrowing these old beliefs. If some people be-
lieved such things were happening today, there was
certainly a challenge in looking into them*
When 1 first learned of the early experiments in
thought transference made by Professor (later Sir)
Oliver Lodge when he was a young physicist at the
University of Liverpool, I asked hopefully, "Might
we not find some grounds here for new under-
standing of ourselves?" The searching mind docs
not need assurance or certainty, it needs only hope.
It was in the sense of following a hope of discover-
ing some illumination just what, I did not know
that I turned eagerly toward this realm of mys-
terious happenings, real or imaginary*
A true description of those early years and the
present as well would begin with my wife. Dr.
l.ouki KHa Rhine* She is the granddaughter of a
German immigrant who was shipwrecked on Sandy
Hook, chtnft *> a mast all night, and livul to write
A poem about his experience. My wife and I met
when we became ncightxMrs in a snull Ohio town
and studied at the high school there. We used to
hold long, juvenile discussion* of religion and our
philosophical perplexities and in the eoune of them
ixftame attached to each cither* In our college years
we studied side by side in the library and the
THE START OF THE DUKE EXPERIMENTS 53
and sat together in laboratory and pew. Like my-
self, she has always been interested in new worlds to
explore, and new roads to travel.
As we grew older and had to decide what to do
with our lives, we turned by common consent to
the field of professional forestry. The woods seemed
to offer a free and natural life, one in which we
might hope to escape the fog of an increasingly
dubious philosophy and work out at least a practical
formula for existence. In preparation for careers in
forestry we became graduate biology students, but
before we had completed our studies in that sphere
our imaginations were caught by the possibilities of
useful work in the borderland science of psychic
research.
The wisdom of meddling with this field seemed to
us at the time highly questionable* My wife fully
shared the questioning as well as the challenge which
this research appeared to offer. Without her I doubt
whether I should have gone ahead, but with her
support and encouragement the decision was easy*
About this time we went to hear Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle give a lecture on spiritualism. I went
with many reservations, almost to scoff, and I left
with the same reservations* But in spite of my
doubts I carried away an impression that I still re-
tain, of what his belief had done to Sir Arthur* It
had made him supremely happy* It had banished
his religious doubts and made him a crusader, will-
ing to make a fool of himself, if necessary, for what
54 N\V FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
he believed to be a great principle. And clearly if
there was a measure of truth in what he be-
lieved, misguided though Sir Arthur might be in
details it would be of transcendental importance.
This mere possibility was the most exhilarating
thought I had had for years.
There is no need to repeat here the psychic ad-
ventures, as they are commonly called^ through
which my wife and I went in the tentative ex-
plorations we made* There were years of reading
and carefully weighing the literature, of trying to
sort out the occasional grain of truth from the un-
usable chaff that makes up the great part of spiri-
tualistic writing. Explorations among the mediums
were discouraging, but they served to sharpen our
cautiousness and critical capacities*
Finally an opportunity came to study under Pro*
fessor McDougalL His books and articles had done
much to strengthen our waning interest in the
psychic field* and the ofTcr was gratefully accepted*
That is how we came to Duke University,
Professor McDougall believed that my back-
ground of biological study and research plus my
interest in 1m well-known Lamarckian experiment
fitted me to become hits research assistant, and he
asked me to remain at Duke. In my first year under
him, 1927-1928, my wife and I had worked on the
criticism and evaluation of the mediumistic ma*
terial of Dr. John F* Thomas of Detroit, whowr
studies have now been published under the title
THE START OF THE DUKE EXPE3EUMENTS 5J
Beyond Normal Cognition. In working on Dr.
Thomas's material we had had the advice and super-
vision of Professor McDougall, and when he asked
me to remain with him at Duke it was with the gen-
eral understanding that I was to have opportunity
to carry out such investigation as seemed possible
in the special field of the Thomas material the field
of parapsychology.
Psychology is the study of mental life, and
parapsychology, as the term is used in this book, is
a special branch of psychology. The "para" part of
the word might be interpreted as "offside" or "un-
conventional/* The problems of parapsychology
arc those which, like telepathy, for example, do not
appear to fit the conventional view in psychol-
ogy, but nevertheless seem to many people to have
some factual basis. The aim of parapsychology is to
find out, first, how sound the facts reported are
and, second, to go even further and find new ex-
planations for unusual phenomena of the mind* It
differs frmirt pyythfo mcarck in the strictly experi-
mcntat"'^thods
usedJnJ?s procure.
^^^ISx^tisst in parapsychology was based largely
on this last consideration* Psychic research is con-
ducted, in many cases, on a broad and tolerant ap-
proach to unusual mental phenomena. As we have
seen, in the earlier discussion of specific cases, it had
been difficult* if not impossible, to make it fit into
the experimental techniques of the laboratory and
the methods of academic teaching* Parapsychology,
56 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIXC
therefore* was designed for academic study and is
today on the curricula of at least three universities.
Something of my state of mind in the fall of
1930, after two years at Duke, can be seen from
this sketch* The suggestions of my colleagues,
Lundholm and Zener, could not, 1 think, havi
fallen on more eager cars anywhere on the inhabited
globe. The encouragement of their offers to co-
operate was the only thing needed to overcome the
diffidence I felt in introducing these unconventional
problems into university laboratories.
It is clear, too, that several persons played an im-
portant part in the setting of the Duke research
and that it would in no sense be fair to center what-
ever recognition may be given it on one individual
The continuation of the work in extra-sensory per-
ception has been marked by this same co-operative
spirit. When my colleagues stopped their active co-
operation several graduate students of psychology
joined me. They did a great share of ihe work, and
an enormous amount of work was done. Two of
them are still doing it, and now that their psy-
chological training is complete they are on the per-
manent staff of the laboratory* Others have gone on
co more regular careers in psychology, and new
assistants have taken their places.
CHAPTER V
The First High Scoring
THE MONTHS OF WORK WITH ZENER AND LUND-
holm had been marked by one highly interesting
phenomenon. The subjects we were testing for un-
usual powers of the mind had shown a tendency to
yield the most positive results in spurts of short
duration. Were these flashes of high scoring only
chance occurrences, or was there some principle at
work? There was no immediate way of answering
that question, but the results were encouraging
enough to make us proceed*
It was clear that new methods or conditions of
work were necessary, and the entire spring of that
year was spent in devising them. The problem was
really to track down ways of catching those elu-
sive flashes of extra-sensory perceptiveness which
our subjects had exhibited, and much of the re-
mainder of this book is basically the story of that
pursuit. The successful results from hundreds of
thousands of tests conducted since that time are
due to the finding of effective ways to catch those
transient flashes and registering them objectively so
that they can be weighed and measured and ac-
cepted as fact*
57
J8 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
The search for conditions which could produce
more favorable scores revealed no magic formula.
I did not draw upon anything occult or mystical.
Instead, the reliance was on much more normal
principles, almost on common sense. The first aim
was to interest the subjects in the tests, and create
confidence in the possibility of doing well. I tried
not to test them except when they seemed interested
and confident. Scientific ethics required us to count
every test we ran, and so every effort was made to
create an atmosphere conducive to suecesv The tests
themselves were run as casually and informally as
could bet though with adequate safeguard against
error- One can easily be cautious without looking
like a watchdog. My relations with my subjects
were friendly, almost fraternal, We did hypnotic
demonstrations, spent long hours in discussion, and
pretty completely dissipated the constraints that
usually exist for the student in the laboratory and in
the presence of his instructor* It seem* to me that
the sort of relationship created in thope bhoratiuy
hours 1$ the natural and most whdk**omt* one for
instructor and student to maintain in general At
any rate, it is to this relationship fh*it I attribute
much of the success that came through the beer
months of that semester*
The casual observer would hardly have been tin*
pressed with the dramatic quality of the tern, There
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 59
were none of the beakers and retorts which the
chemist sets up on his workbench in complicated
series nor of the intricate and often impressively
powerful pieces of apparatus which the physicist
uses to penetrate the secrets of the atom. Instead,
there were only two men, a table, two chairs, and
a deck of odd-looking cards.
That deck of cards was one of those devised by
Zener and myself and described in the preceding
chapter. It consisted of five cards each of five
f
'suits** or symbols a total of 25 cards to the deck.
There were five cards marked with a star, five with
a rectangle, and an equal number with circles,
wavy lines, and pluses or crosses. In other respects
they resembled ordinary playing cards, with uni-
form backs (then blank and later bearing an im-
printed design).
Seated at one side of the table was the subject,
the man or woman who was being tested for extra-
sensory perception* X sat across from him with the
deck of ESP cards, a pencil, and a piece of paper* In
front of me stood the pile of cards, shuffled and
cut* Neither I nor the subject knew the order of
the cards in the deck, any more than the bridge
player knows how an ordinary deck of playing
cards is arranged prior to the deal* The procedure
was simple; the subject tried to name the symbol
on the top card of the deck, which was, of course,
face down* He might stare at the back of the card,
he might be sitting with his eyes closed, or he might
6Q NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
be looking out the window. Sometimes he was al-
lowed to touch the card* but more often not; some
of the best subjects did not want to touch them.
After as long a time as he cared to take usually
not more than a few seconds the subject would
name or call what he thought the symbol was on
the top card. I would note down his call,
the top card or let htm do so, and we wou!J
the procedure with the next card in the deck. Not
until we had gone through the entire pack of 25
cards would I look to see whether the subject was
calling the symbols correctly. Once we had run
through the whole deck, the subnet's calk as noted
down on my paper, were checked against the actual
order of the cards.
This simple, monotonous procedure seems an
almost childish way to investigate the possibility of
the human mind's possessing powers not reeoj:m;ml
by scientists or the majority of laymen, h hckcJ
every element of drama, employed only one bit f
apparatus, a thin deck of cards, am! lud t<* be re*
peatcd over and over again until subjects had called*
through a period of months and years the tymhab
on literally millions of cards* And yet, as *ub*cqutint
pages will make clean it was a highly ttutfactwy
method of investigation and, ultimately, of proof,
The very simplicity of the technique wa* an ad-
vantage- It reduced the number of possible ex*
traneous factors to a minimum. The rt?n*Ju wer?
notably easy to evaluate fitatitticaHyfanJ4*amcthc*j
TiMPAI'llV CARP TISriNG IN THK DUKK LABORATORY,
nil, SINDEil, UlfRKi-; -SMITH, IS A STAFF MEMBER.
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 61
of work it did not require complicated preliminary
training. In the years that followed these first ex-
periments hundreds of investigators were to work
with the ESP cards and find them a useful, practi-
cable trail toward new frontiers of psychology.
One more point ought to be made in connec-
tion with this working technique. I have indicated
it before but it cannot be emphasized too much*
Before any card-calling was attempted, every effort
was made to interest the subject in the work. I ex-
plained the purpose of the tests and how the cards
were used. The atmosphere was as informal and
as friendly as I could make it* After all, it was a
delicate and subtle capacity of the mind for which
we were searching, and it was only common sense to
try to create an atmosphere favorable to its opera-
tion. When the first stiffness and constraint of the
subject had been thawed out as far as possible we
proceeded to the actual tests* If, after calling
through several decks of ESP cards, he failed to
score much above the average of 5 right, which
tuck or chance alone would account for, the tests
would be stopped* Sometimes unsuccessful subjects
were asked to try again. More often they were not.
The successful ones, those whose scores ran con-
sistently above the level of 5 correct calls per deck,
were eagerly encouraged and asked to continue with
the work* This, too, was common sense, for what
we were interested in was not finding out whether
everybody possesses extra-sensory perceptive pow-
62 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
ers, but first whether anybody docs* The problem
of how widespread the ESP faculty might be in
human beings could not be considered until we had
proved its existence and discovered ways to establish
and test it*
It is easy to confuse a method with its results.
Our card method of research was a useful too!, but
there was nothing intrinsically important about it
beyond the fact that it did prove practical* Far
more important than the cards themselves, I believe,
or the statistical appraisal which they made possible
was the way in which the tests were conducted.
Not what was done, but the way in which it was
done contributed most to the results. The carJs did
not develop a new faculty of the mind they
merely recorded an existing faculty in a simple,
practical way. The atmosphere which led the sub-
jects to an eager and interested frame of mind was
the vital factor* The subjects caught the spirit of
what was presented to them as a game, so to speak*
and probably any investigator in this field who will
go to the trouble of inspiring keen, spontaneous in*
terest in his subjects will be successful with this
card technique or with others*
The tests for clairvoyance* made in the spring of
1931, began to give indication that the research w*$
on the right track. It is important; to understand
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 63
plainly in what way these tests did indicate some
form of extra-sensory perception, and the explana-
tion of how they did so involves a certain amount
of simple mathematics. That spring the subjects
made 800 trials or individual calls* That is, they in-
dicated their impressions of the symbols on 800
cards, face down before them. The average for all
the subjects tested, and for every one of the in-
dividual calls, was 6l
/z correct out of each group
of 2*.
Is there anything significant in that average?
That depends on whether or not you know how to
appraise it* Neither my colleagues nor I had any
expectation that we should find subjects who could
call all the cards right every single time. What we
were looking for was subjects who could accu-
rately name more cards than mere chance could ac-
count for. A partial analogy might be drawn from
business, where the purpose is not to make a clear
100 per cent profit on every transaction, but to
show a percentage of profit on the entire number.
If a businessman succeeds in doing that he is getting
results in his particular field. The results of our
tests demonstrated much the same sort of "profit"
or gain over the scores which could have been ex-
pected and accurately predicted if chance alone
were operating in the calls made by our subjects.
How does a score, an average score, of 6 l
/
2 cards
correctly named in each group of 25 prove that
something mote than sheer chance or luck was op-
64 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
crating in those tests in the Duke laboratory? To
answer that question it is necessary to know just
what score chance alone would give in the same
series of tests carried out mechanically, that is, by
excluding the possibility of any sort of human ex-
tra-sensory perception. Fortunately, there are sev-
eral ways of finding out what the score would have
been if sheer chance had been operative. We can
employ logic to find out, or we can make actual
tests, trial demonstrations, or we can consult the
authority of those who are expert in the laws of
chance. The simplest of these methods to apply at
the start of this explanation is logic.
Everyone knows that if I put five different cards
face down on the table, each with one of the num-
bers from 1 to 5 on its face, and ask someone to
guess the number on a designated card, the chance
is 1 in 5 that he will guess corrt ;tly, or "score a
hit/* if he has no way of knowing which is which*
Now* if
J[ tel^l^jghetiber he is
rijAt or notjind
J:o guess anQther^TOmedjgard* Jthp
But
if I do not tell him whetHerhe hit or missed on the
first guess (and in our work we do not) , he knows
no more on the second guess than he did on the
first one; consequently, the chances are the same as
before. He may think he knows the first card
guessed if he believes strongly in his ESP ability;
but if we assume there is no ESP, then his belief
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 65
could have no foundation, and any conclusion
based on a mere unfounded belief could not help
him at all in guessing the other cards.
Accordingly, if I do not tell him whether he is
right or wrong, he can go on until he guesses all
five cards, and even with the fifth there is still the
same chance of hitting as at first. For the subject
has learned nothing that can reliably guide his
guessing on the fifth. I have often had long argu-
ments with persons interested in this point, but
none has ever accepted my challenge to gamble
with me, putting odds of more than 1 in 5 on the
fifth card*
The same principle holds, of course, for the tenth
card or the twenty-fifth, if there is a pack instead
of five* If the chantfe is 1 in 5 for success on each
card clear through the whole pack, this means that
it is J in 21, 20 &' 100, or 200 in 1,000 trials. This
is the number most to be expected, or iht mean
chance expectation* In the long run the average
would closely approximate this figure*
Put the matter to actual test and you will get
the same result, or one only an insignificant frac-
tion different. It is easy to try it out. Take two
packs of cards and pretend that one of them repre-
sents the guesses or calls of a subject. Match these
decks against each other and note down the number
of times cards at the same respective points in the
two decks happen to coincide. These "hits" are die
66 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
result of pure chance* They may total exactly 5, or
more often a number above or below that figure.
Shuffle both decks and match them again and again,
as long as you have the patience to keep it up. You
ought to match them at least 100 times before you
can feel that you have given the question a scien-
tifically satisfactory test* Next, add up the total
number of hits and divide that figure by the total
number of runs. The result will give you the aver-
age number of hits per run. The more runs you
make the more likely will this figure approach an
even 5*0.
Competent investigators actually have matched
hundreds of thousands of cards in this and similar
ways, and the results are always close to dhance-^S.
riffhtjyut
of every 25 cuaJg^and neverjss high as
tjhgjreerage
of 6.? right wki>fr mir
Once we had determined what average to expect
from chance factors alone we were able to discover
how much our actual results were beyond or above
chance. All we had to do was to subtract the chance
expectation from the actual scores made by our
subjects; the difference between the two figures
gave us what is called deviation* In our 800 trials
chance alone could be expected to yield one-fifth
that many hits, or a total of 160. But the actual
number of our subjects* hits was 20747 more hits
than chance would be expected to produce,
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 67
Perhaps a deviation of 47 hits in this case was
nothing to marvel at. Might that deviation itself not
be the result of chance? How sure could we be that
such was not the case?
The answers to these questions do not make light
and easy reading. It is not possible to write about
mathematical computations in quite the same lan-
guage in which a good story is told, and many read-
ers may wish to spare themselves the tedium of the
next paragraphs, though there is nothing about
them, I hope, which the ordinary reader will not
be able to understand. If you care to skip the less
exciting part of this chapter, then, turn ahead to
the next section, which is numbered 4.
In the statistical analysis which our research em-
ploys it is necessary to have a way of telling what
variations in chance scores may occur, and how
often they may be looked for. A truly chance series
rarely averages exactly 5.0, although the average in
a long run i$ seldom far from it. Fortunately, it is
mathematically possible to find out how often to
expect a deviation as great as 47 in 800, and the an-
swer is expressed in terms of once in a hundred
series of the same size, or once in a thousand or a
million such series. Mathematicians have worked
out a standard formula for determining the odds
against chance as the cause of deviation.
A full explanation of how that formula was de-
rived and how it is applied to the results of ESP
68 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
tests "would require lengthy discussion before it
could be fully understood.* The general idea, how-
ever, is simple enough. Given a series of trials
say 800 with a deviation of 47 from the mean or
ordinary chance expectation, how unlikely is it that
this deviation itself occurred by chance? If, for
instance, the odds should be only 10 to 1 against
chance, scientists feel that it is not sufficiently un-
likely to be beyond the range of accidental occur-
rence, and hence they prefer odds of 100 or 150 to
I. Such odds as these are consistently relied upon in
scientific work as a basis for further investigation.
Even so, in our laboratory no important conclu-
sion is based upon such low odds as 1 50 to 1. Noth*
i^gje^^
as proof of any point of importance, and the actual
figures give odds of millions and upward to one
The yardsticks most often used in measuring de-
viation from chance are the
j^^^^ ai*d
thtstandard deviationJjSQ) tfaough*the^former is
seldom useTTm this work toclay. The standard devia-
tion method involves selecting mathematically the
deviation from chance for the particular series at
which the odds are 1 in 3 that such a deviation is it-
self due to chance. The actual experimental devia-
tion established by the tests is then divided by this
* The reader who is lertoutly Interested In goto* funtie* fata thh front
may wish to consult G. Irving Gvreu's $**tfstfrl Mr/ta/, &. A, Ft*Her*
Statktictl Methods for Retttrcb Workerst or Thornton Fry*f Jtolwfaft/ir
end Its En&netrinx UXPI* More detailed and thorough treatment of the
mathematics of probability u applied to this type o research Afp*4rf n
current number* of the jour**! of P*
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 69
new hypothetical deviation to produce a critical
ratio, or expression in numerical terms of how tin-
likely it is that actual deviation is the result of
chance.
The standard deviation is
arrirajha^
ing togethgr^enu!nfeci<of trjal^ th* rfaflcg n
getting ahit, and,jdb&,chance..of a miss, and simply-
takjnjyhequare root^f_A^ro^ctJL
If the prob-
ability of getting a hit on any one particular trial
is 1 in 5, or 1/5, the probability of making a miss
is naturally 4 in 5, or 4/5. To apply the principle
to our 800 trials, then, multiply 800, 1/5, and 4/5
and extract the square root. This gives a standard
deviation for the whole number of trials as 11,3.
Since our tests had produced an experimental devia-
tion of 47, we divide that figure by the standard
deviation and get a result of 4.2, which means that
there was only one chance in about 250,000 that
our results could be attributed to purely chance
factors. Such odds amount practically to certainty,
and no one in science or out of it ought to ask
for more than that!
This yardstick, the standard deviation, is a
curiously elastic one* It varies to fit the total num-
ber of runs against which it is applied, being larger
for long series and smaller for short series. In other
words, if the 47 hits over and above chance about
which we have been talking had been the result of
8,000 trials instead of 800, we should have divided
the deviation of47 by a different standard deviation*
70 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
In case 8,000 trials were to produce no more than
47 hits above the level of chance, this deviation
would not have been a significant one because the
larger number of trials would allow more room for
chance alone to produce such a deviation.
On the other hand, while an experimentally de-
rived deviation of 47 means more in a short scries
than it does in a long one, the average of 6.5 hits
per 25 cards which our subjects had been scoring
would be more and more significant the longer the
series. By continuing at that level there would be
an ever-increasing deviation, one less and less likely
to happen as the result of pure chance*
This sounds a little complicated perhaps, but it
can more easily be expressed in terms of a simple
table which will show the entire relationship and
at the same time give some figures for significant
deviations. The first, or left-hand, column here
takes certain averages of hits per 25 cards, begin-
ning as low as 5.25 and running up to 1LCK The
second column gives the number of runs which
would have to be made at the specified average be-
fore the deviation could be considered significant.
If chance alone would not account for this devia-
tion more than once in 150 times, it is considered
significant. (You can easily understand that if the
odds against a certain result are 1 50 to 1 in the case
of a short series, such as 25 trials, that one chance
is more likely to occur than when, in the case of
a longer series, such as 250 trials, the odds against
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 71
a certain result are the same. That is, once in ISO
times 250 is a much smaller chance than once in 1 SO
times 2S. That is why we rarely use the measure
of the standard deviation on series of fewer than
200 trials, and never on those below 100.) Column
three of the table gives the number of actual hits
a subject has to make in the given number of runs
in order to score the average given in the first
column and accumulate an experimental deviation
or total hits above mean chance of 2 l
/2 times
our standard deviation yardstick. The number of
hits above mean chance level required to do this in
a ratio of 1 in 1 SO is given in the last column.
Even if the explanation before this table has not
made the complicated business of probability en-
tirely clear to you. It will show you that the fewer
runs a subject makes, the more hits he has to score
to prove beyond reasonable doubt that he is perceiv-
ing extra-sensorily. On very long runs only a small
average above what we should expect from chance
proves the point more conclusively than a larger
72 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
average on a smaller number of runs. As I have
said, we never base conclusions on results that in-
volve series shorter than 8 runs or 200 trials.
One thing, at least, must be clear by this time.
My casual-appearing explorations were producing
averages that were not due to chance. I felt greatly
encouraged to continue the quest, though it was
slow and laborious. I have already explained how
much of an effort was made to put the subject at
his ease and awake an interest in the tests before
they were given. There was no way of telling just
how much of this intangible, personal preparation
was necessary for the results I was getting, and I
did not dare take a chance on. lowering those results
by attempting any short cuts.
Then there was the question of scientific precau-
tion. We were exploring an unknown process of
the mind, and the first thing our successful tests
had to do was to convince me and my colleagues of
their objective validity. So we took a wide range
of precautions. Six or more packs of cards were
kept at hand and the test pack changed frequently.
In this way new packs were introduced, cards
which had never been seen before by the subjects
using them, We were careful not to allow an op-
portunity of studying the backs of the cards, in
order to prevent die possibility of any of die stu-
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 73
dents with whom we were working being able to
distinguish the cards by almost microscopic mark-
ings on their backs. Such small markings may ap-
pear as a result of handling, but as soon as the
cards showed signs of wear and tear they were
discarded. Care was exercised to have the card called
before it was removed from the deck and all shiny
tabletops covered or avoided so that there would
be no reflection when the pack was cut. The check-
up was made a double-observation affair, both ex-
perimenter and subject seeing both card and record
and score. Later we adopted several further protec-
tive devices such as screens and distance. All these
precautions, and others,, will be discussed again in
the chapters where they most naturally belong.
Indeed, we went so slowly at this time that we
rarely asked a subject to call more than 25 cards
in any one day* The principal result of our tests that
spring was not the average of 6.5 hits out of 25, but
an understanding of the way in which to conduct
the tests themselves in order to make positive results
possible.
The academic year was drawing to a close, and
though the results of the tests I had conducted
were favorable enough to encourage me and to
warrant carrying on the research, I had not yet
come upon a subject with a startling capacity for
extra-sensory perception* Yet all the time there was
74 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
such a person close at hand. It was almost by acci-
dent that he was discovered* His name was A. J.
Linzmayer, and he was actually one of our own
undergraduate students in psychology. When Dr.
Zener and I had tested a class of more than a hun-
dred students, Linzmayer had turned in the best
score of the group, but he had not done unusually
well in the fe^r subsequent individual tests we had
given him, and consequently little work had been
done with him as a subject. His ability would prob-
ably never have been discovered if it had not been
for his interest in hypnotism.
One day late in the month of May he dropped
in at the laboratory, and I made a relatively unsuc-
cessful attempt to hypnotize him. While he was
still lying on a couch in the laboratory I picked up
a pack of ESP cards and shuffled them* Almost
everyone who came my way in those days was asked
to try at least a run or two of the cards. Standing
at the window* well out of Linzmayer's line of
vision, I glanced at a card and asked him what it
was. He told me, correctly* Glancing at the next
card, I held it under my hand so that it would be
completely out of the question for him to see it,
even if he happened to look my way, and asked him
again what it was. He told me, again correctly. In
fact, he called nine cards in succession correctly.
Here was something amazing! The mathematical
odds against accurately calling nine cards in a row
are in the neighborhood of two million to one
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 75
5 to the ninth power. No such result as that has
ever occurred in all the tests which have been con-
ducted to determine the mathematics of pure
chance.
The next day Linzmayer again made a run of
9 strjdght accurate calls^ and I realized that here
was a subject who had what amounted to a genius
for extra-sensory perceptivity. My excitement at
the discovery was doubtless highly unbecoming in
a scientist and I could not help communicating a
good deal of it to Linzmayer. Neither of us could
believe that two runs of 9 straight hits, made
on successive days and by the same man, were due
to any imaginable chance or luck. The odds against
that explanation for the two runs together were
astronomical, and it would have been stretching
skepticism to the point of folly to assign any chance
cause to them. Something was working here which
was real enough to produce results, however far
it might be outside the border of accepted thought
and belief*
These runs of 9 straight hits were the most
sensational made up to that time, though later ex-
periments were to produce far more impressive
ones. Both of us became excited, and as we con-
tinued with the testing Linzmayer's scores began to
drop. When we finally stopped, after. calling 300
cards, his last scores were at the level of chance,
or 5 correct out of 25. But for the series as a whole
he had averaged almost twice what chance alone
76 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
could have been expected to produce. Instead of 60
right out of 300 calls, Linzmayer had named 119
cards correctly.
The day after his second series of nine hits in a
row was to have been Linzmayer's last at Duke.
He had made arrangements to drive home with a
friend, and a summer job was waiting at the other
end of the trip. He needed the money, and our re-
search could not take the responsibility of asking
him to stay longer. In a most generous and co-opera-
tive spirit he promised to let us have every possible
hour of his last day, and we made plans to utilize
the time to the best advantage. What we most
needed from him, of course, was the largest possi-
ble number of significant scores* but this kind of
work could not be rushed. The moment I tried to
hurry him his scores dropped, and certainly against
his own .will to succeed. He was willing to try
any condition of testing we wanted, but the gift
we were trying to measure was apparently in great
part beyond his control*
Linzmayer had a theory that he could do his best
work if he made his runs while looking out the
window. He thought that this slight diversion kept
him from getting fixed mental habits about call-
ing the order of the cards. On the morning of his
last day, accordingly, we started off the tests with
Linzmayer standing at the window of the labora-
tory on the top floor of the Duke Medical Building
and looking across the trcetops.
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 77
For a while this arrangement gave us good re-
sults,, but finally we decided that it did not offer
enough distraction to keep the work from getting
monotonous. I suggested going for a ride in my
car to give him a change of attention. My plan was
to stop after a time in some quiet place and do an-
other test or two. Then we could go on to another,
and a third, as long as the method seemed to be
effective.
For some time we drove along quietly. Then
it occurred to me to test my subject on the way
to the place where I had planned to make our first
stop. I pulled the car up at the side of the road but
did not bother to turn off the engine. Putting a
large notebook across Linzmayer's knees, I took
a pack of ESP cards out of my pocket and held it
in my hand. He, meantime, had leaned back with
his head resting against the top of the seat, so that
his eyes saw nothing but the roof of the car. There
were no mirrors or shiny surfaces into which he
could have looked for possible reflections. During
the actual progress of the test, his eyes were closed.
After giving the pack a cut neither of us knew
the order of the cards in it anyway I drew off the
top one and tipped it toward me just enough to
catch a glimpse of the symbol and then put it face
down on the notebook on Linzmayer's lap* With-
out looking at it or touching it he said, after a
pause of about two seconds:
"Circle/*
78 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
"Right/
5
1 told him, drew off the next card, and
laid it on the notebook.
"Plus/* he said.
"Right/*
"Waves."
"Right/*
"Waves/*
"Right/'
At this point I shuffled the deck again, cut it
Once more, and again drew off a card.
"Star," Linzmayer said when the card was placed
on the notebook. It was a star*
When he had called fifteen cards m succession
without a sing;le_mista both of us were too
amazed for a while to go on with the rest of the
run. No conceivable deviation from probability,
no "streak of luck** which either of us had ever
heard of could parallel such a sequence of unbroken
hits. We both knew that the thing Linzmayer had
just done was virtually impossible by all the rules
in the book of chance, but he had done it.
Eventually we went on with the run, and in the
final 10 cards of that series Linzmayer made 6 hits.
His total was 21 correct calls out of a possible 2J.
It is hard to express the remoteness of the possi-
bility that Linzmayer had got his results by pure
chance. Merely to indicate the odds against that
initial series of 15 successive accurate calls hav-
ing a chance explanation requires a ratio of 1 to
something over 30,000,000,000, and the scare of
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 79
21 out of 25 would produce an even greater one.
On paper and in print such figures mean nothing
concrete to the ordinary person. They are astro-
nomically large, and we did not consider them seri-
ously for a moment; we both knew that we were
on the threshold of a proof for the existence of
extra-sensory perception which would be able to
satisfy even the most skeptical.
No reader of this book need consider the account
of this extraordinary run of Linzmayer's as pre-
sumptive evidence that ESP is a fact. The condi-
tions of the test were not our usual laboratory ones,
and the scientific evidence for ESP rests upon work
performed under the strictest conditions. Write
that amazing score off, if you like, to mere explora-
tion. With all the skepticism I can muster, though,
I still do not see how any sensory cue could have
revealed to Linzmayer the symbols of those 21 cards
he called correctly.
We spent the rest of the day together driving
along country roads or in the Duke forest, stopping
to make one test run of the cards after another.
The occasional passers-by must have thought us a
very unusual couple of men. indeed, with one of
us sitting with his eyes shut or fixed on the sky
and his back turned upon his companion, who was
picking up little card$*Qne at a time and apparently
making a record every time, the first man spoke a
word*
80 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
6
It is difficult for people who are not familiar
with the methods of scientific research to appreci-
ate the value of negative results* Yet they are as
important in their way as positive ones; it is essen-
tial to know what a thing is not> to learn the cir-
cumstances which will exclude it from the picture,
so to speak, as well as those which will produce it.
In the research with Linzmayer, then, it was im-
portant to find out if his gift for extra-sensory
perceptivity couldLbe rendered inoperative. In
learning the factors which would affect it adversely
we should be finding out something positive about
its nature.
Already the creation of a favorable atmosphere
for the subject has been stressed, and in studying the
methods of doing so I had noticed that one of the
worst things I could do was to press the subject
either to take the test when he was reluctant or to
call the cards under conditions which did not ap-
peal to him. This discovery agreed with the work
of earlier investigators* Richet, in his tests, had
found that long> fatiguing runs lowered his sub-
jects* scoring* and Estabrooks ha4 ftotkqdl that even
in so short a run as twenty cards the
larger nagk
fe o^ jjejajfe
first ten*
H. L. Frick, one of my students^who fead been do^
ing ESP work, confirmed these findings by long
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 81
runs o 100, in which, toward the end, he tended
to go below the chance average.
Clearly the next step was to find out what would
happen to Linzmayer if he was hurried and asked to
work under pressure and against his will. Previous
experience and logic suggested that his scores ought
to show a marked drop, but it was important to
verify this hypothesis by actual experiment. So,
without explaining what was behind the request, I
urged him to stay on and work a little longer and
past the time when we had agreed to stop. I altered
my manner toward him, demanding that he go
faster and try to squeeze in a greater number of
runs in the same space of time. In the few addi-
tional hours which he was courteous enough to
grant he made half again as many trials as in the
several preceding days. But where, in the 600
former trials he had averaged 10 right calls for
each deck of 25 cards, in the first 500 trials under
pressure he dropped to an average of 4, and in the
next 400 his average was almost precisely the chance
expectation of 5 per 25.
These results were in line with our expectation.
With the same tools the cards and in conditions
which were physically unchanged, by applying
pressure and doing things in a way which I knew
to be wrong, we had been able to get a new series
against which to check the earlier one, a series in
which the results were no better than chance itself
82 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
would have produced, and in fact below the chance
average. Linzmayer himself wished to score high, as
before, but the conditions under which his last
series of calls were made had prevented him from
doing so. Indeed, the less-than-chance average sug-
gested the possibility of creating a negative block
of some sort in the mental path of the extra-sensory
process.
7
The loss of Linzmayer as a subject handicapped a
research which was small in personnel and with-
out any real financial resource* Here and there*
however, we were able to find a promising subject,
enlisting the interest of a number of students in
the search for a second Linzmayer* Most active
among them was an able student of mathematics,
Charles E. Stuart. He had been in one of my classes
earlier and had been a subject in the experiments
conducted by Lundholm and myself* Stuart had
given some promise of extra-sensory perceptivity,
though not a great deal. But he instituted an in-
vestigation of his own in the dormitory, mainly
with his fraternity brothers: using a pack of cards
slightly different from those which Zencr and I had
designed, he conducted a large number of tests on
those of his friends whom he could interest. The re-
sults were even higher than my own. This gave me
the first independent illustration of what has since
become almost a recognized rule: the less formid-
HUBERT PEARCE, ON THE LEFT, CALLING DOWN
THROUGH A PACK OF ESP CARDS. PROFESSOR RHINE IS
RECORDING HIS CALLS.
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 83
able the investigator and the more friendly and
casually he can be taken by the sufc-fectsf
the b$t-
ter the results are likely to be. This is the reason why
much of the best work in the subsequent stages of
this investigation is, and has been* going on in the
hands of responsible undergraduate investigators
who are supervised and sponsored by staff members.
Stuart's work seemed to be well done and care-
fully recorded, so far as I could judge. In fact, it
made such an impression on me that I resolved to
encourage him as far as was possible to continue in
this field of research. I am happy to say that he is
now my colleague on the staff of the Parapsychol-
ogy Laboratory.
But it was with himself as subject that Stuart
did his most remarkable work. If one wishes, he
may completely reject this work as not being done
in good faith, but it does seem to possess all the ear-
marks of genuineness. I am sure that no one who
has known Stuart at the university would consider
any question of his honesty reasonable. Besides, he
has since been tested by other investigators, and
the results have well borne out the capacities
demonstrated in the work he did alone.
The characteristic thing about Stuart's scoring
is that it begins well, but declines after a time. The
first period of his work lasted through several
months, and began with an average of 9 hits per
2?. Then the scores gradually came down to chance
through a series of 7,500 trials. Later he resumed
84 NEW mONTIERS OF THE MIND
work and set out with an average beyond 7 hits
per 25. Again the scores dropped off to chance
after 2,000 trials. Since then he has shown other
spurts of ability when a new and challenging situa-
tion has arisen, but the period of his effective scor-
ing has grown relatively shorter with each turn.
In the progressive declines manifested by Stuart's
work we have learned something about the strange
phenomenon which it helped to demonstrate* We
Lave learned that this ability is something that plays
out when the original novelty wfars pfF an<3 is re-
aroused when a fresh attack witfc renewed intergst
is made; Stuart seldom fails to respond with above-
chance scores to the challenge of a new technique*
In addition, then, to merely piling up more evi-
dence for ESP in Stuart's work, we were getting at
some of its elementary relationships to other psy-
chological principles*
8
While Stuart was carrying out hfe work* my at-
tention was primarily engaged with Linznnaycr
again. Through a small grant from the university
we were able to finance a week's visit from him in
the fall of 1931, He had lost something, but I seri-
ously doubt that this was due to the mistreatment
of those last few hours* work in the spring. More
probably it was because he now had a reputation
to live up to and could not avoid being under a
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 85
certain amount of strain. He was being modestly
paid to do the work, and it is likely that much of the
spontaneity of the original experiment was gone.
That had been adventure. This was work.
In spite of various devices for enlivening the ex-
periments, I could not get him to score above an
average of 6.5. But each experimental series with
Linzmayer eventually, four in all was highly
significant of something beyond chance, in spite
of the declining average scores. As the scores fell
off, more trials were made. On a second visit in the
spring of 1932 he could do little better, averaging
6.7. Finally, in 1933, his fourth experimental
period, he was down to 5.9. Even this low average,
in the 3,000 trials made during that period, is sig-
nificant of something beyond chance. Linzmayer's
decline reinforced what we learned from our work
with Stuart.
Another test which we made with Linzmayer in
March of 1932 proved to be an important one, and
though it may appear somewhat unusual, it was
actually one of the recognized methods of psycho-
logic investigation. In tests for the different mental
processes which psychologists study it is important
to try out the effects of fatigue, drugs, and anything
else which may influence them. We had already dis-
covered that pjressure
^
aadJEatigue jendedj^cxwer
a^subject's ability atJKjig, and we decided next
to try, with every precaution, the effect of a non-
habit-forming narcotic drug.
86 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
Sodium amytal was selected because of its safety,
and we gave Linzmayer a dose of it one day* In the
runs he had been making just before we gave him
the drug his scores had been averaging 6.8; after
taking the first dose, no effect upon him was observ-
able, even within the proper allowance of time. We
had interrupted the testing until we were sure that
the sodium amytal was working, and were looking
for signs of "dissociation" or intoxication, such as
inco-ordination, dizziness, and drowsiness. Linz-
mayer was a strong young man in perfect health,
and he playfully resisted the action of the drug, in-
sisting that it had not affected him* After a half
hour we gave him a second dose, and finally a third,
before he began to exhibit the normal effects of a
narcotic. By the time it had taken full effect he
was decidedly drowsy and behaved a good deal lilcc
a moderately drunken man* His tongue was thick
and his speech somewhat incoherent* He was talka-
tive and frank, and had trouble in walking straight.
In general his judgment was impaired, but he was
able to see, hear, and feel as much as a normal man.
His sensory perception, in other words, was still
functioning, while the higher processes which nor-
mally direct the senses were confused. What* then*
of extra-sensory perception?
In this condition, Lmzmayer's ability to score in
the tests for ar/r#~sen$ory perception was com-
pletely gone, and his average came down to 5*0,
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 87
I worked him as long as I could keep him awake.
He did not want to sit up, and when he lay down
it was almost impossible to keep him from sleeping.
Obviously extra-sensory perception was completely
inhibited long before sensory perception gave out
and the subject went to sleep. Here was a clear
relationship, though a negative one, which discrimi-
nated extra-sensory from sensory perception, and
similar tests with later subjects and smaller doses
directly confirmed it.
A narcoticdrug which interferes ^th nervous
action also interferes with ESP. It indicates that die
nervous system is involved in some phase of extra-
sensory perception at least as we are testing it.
Such research is never free from a personal and
sometimes amusing side* For instance, there I was
alone with Linzmayer, who was heavily and, to the
superficial eye, drunkenly asleep. I had not expected
to have to dose him so heavily and had made no
provision for the outcome. It would be unwise to
attract attention by calling for help, because ex-
planation at such a time is difficult. Work in our
field is best done quietly certainly so on a college
campus* What could I do? Linzmayer was staying
m one of the dormitories, and it was broad daylight.
By hammering the soles of his feet to waken him,
and by challenging him, I managed to get him to at-
tempt to walk. Smuggling him down an elevator to
a back exit, I succeeded in getting him into my car.
88 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
where he at once sprawled across the back seat and
fell into a deep sleep even before I got the car
started.
For a time I drove my human "guinea pig**
around the countryside in the hope that the fresh
air blowing over him would revive him. In the end
I took him to my home and managed to get him
awake long enough to drink two cups of strong
coffee. When I returned to the car he had fallen into
as deep a sleep as ever. Not wishing to have to ex-
plain his absence, and disclose my research pre-
maturely to campus curiosity, I headed back to the
dormitory and pulled up to the back door of the
building, wheye I managed to shake him into half
wakefulness, and with his arm over my shoulder we
paraded down the hallway to his room while the
students were all at supper* I left him under a cold
shower, thinking that by this time the major effect
of the drug might well be supposed to be over. At
any rate he could go to bed and "sleep it off." I was
enormously relieved, Linzmayer was none the worse
for the experience, and he had contributed some-
thing important to the research*
One more circumstance helped to increase our
growing confidence and enthusiasm* By the end of
the academic year of 1931*1932 we had been able
to find a number of other people besides Linzmayer
and Stuart who were able to demonstrate a positive
capacity for extra-sensory perception. There were
now at least a dozen of them, though none so brUii-
THE FIRST HIGH SCORING 89
ant as the two men whose work has been described
in this chapter, and we began to feel that they were
not simply fortunate discoveries. If ESP subjects
were relatively easy to find it would make our re-
search that much easier to carry on, and at this
stage none of us would have considered for a min-
ute the idea of not going on with the work.
CHAPTER VI
Further Advances
IN THE SEVEN YEARS OF THE DUKE EXPERIMENTS,,
our most important discovery so far as subjects
were concerned was a young man named Hubert
Pearce. He proved to be probably the best subject
discovered in aU the research on extra-sensory per-
ception. Finding him was not merely a happy acci-
dent.
One day in the early spring of 1932 I delivered
a talk to the students of the Duke School of
Religion, describing the work in parapsychology*
After it was over, a young divinity student who had
been in the audience came to me to say that he was
specially interested in our experiments because of
certain psychic experiences that had occurred in
his family. His mother, he told me, had possessed
psychic capacities, and he had been a witness to
some impressive demonstrations of them,
"Do you possess some of these capacities your-
self?" I asked him.
"Yes," he said,
tf
but I am afraid of them."
I assured him that there was nothing to fear from
exercising his special perceptive powers under con*
trolled conditions and in a laboratory. So he agreed
5>0
FURTHER ADVANCES 91
to take some tests. I asked him to report to J. G.
Pratt, who had already begun to carry on a con-
siderable part of the research.
Almost from the beginning Pearce showed
marked ability in the card-calling tests. In fact, in
the course of the first 100 trials it was evident that
here was an exceptional scorer. On the first 5,000
trials he averaged close to 10 hits out of 25. Day in
and day out for two years his scores could be relied
upon to average around that figure. Sometimes they
went higher for a day and sometimes lower, but
always they were above the chance average. We
constantly wanted more work from him than his
schedule would permit his giving us.
Pearce turned out to be just the man we needed
for exploration into the nature of extra-sensory per-
ception. A great share of what we have discovered
by way of important ESP relationships came from
the work done with him. Of course most of it was
confirmed in the work of others, but he was so
adaptable to changes in working conditions and so
willing to adjust himself to new demands that we
made greater progress with him than we had ever
been able to do before we found him.
Pearce was a man of slight build, somewhat ner-
vous and sensitive, and tremendously interested
in doing good scoring. Failure affected him deeply*
When everything was going well he was happy in
his accomplishments and seemed to enjoy the work
as much as any of us. He appreciated the Impor-
92 NEW FRONTIERS OP THE MIND
tance of what he was doing and felt that it was not
unrelated to the fundamentals of his religious
calling*
Although his attitude was always co-operative
and he never refused to try anything that was pro-
posed to him, we soon found that it was better for
him to suggest changes in technique oFproccHurc,
or at least' to let him take a part in Helping to de~
cide them. Apparently it was a question of getting
co-operation from a part of his personality over
which he did not have full conscious control* For
instance, when he himself suggested that he call
right down through a pack of cards without remov-
ing one a proposal which at the time was made
almost in the spirit of a boast he had no difficulty
in so doing and making an excellent score. But when
I suggested the slight change that he divide the
pack into piles of five each and call them he did
not succeed.
At one time we wanted to run some tests with
a special deck of ESP cards carrying very small
symbols. The purpose was to find out whether the
size of the symbols affected the subject's ability to
perceive them extra-sensorily, and we used symbols
so small that they averaged only about three milli-
meters in diameter* By arranging to have the sug-
gestion for this test come through Pcarce himself
his confidence was unshaken and he succeeded in
scoring just as well with these minute symbols as
with the regular cards. Later 00 there will be a
FURTHER ADVANCES ^ 93
good deal to say about certain tests which we con-
ducted at a distance, and in this case, too, we suc-
ceeded in inducing Pearce to propose the work to
us instead of the other way round.
Pearce was not a sensational scorer. He seldom
made long perfect runs, but his results displayed a
sort of rhythm. An analysis of his scores reveals a
number of internal curves which are similar to
those produced by other mental performances, such
as a memory test, which are much better under-
stood than ESP. For instance, he did better toward
the beginning and end of a run than in the middle.
The average person is likely to stow the same ten-
dency whether it is a case of a run of ESP cards or
memorizing a poem. Most of us have noticed that
it is easier to remember the first and last stanzas
of a poem; or, in a column of figures, the first five
and the last five. Certainly it was normal to expect
Pearce to do better in the first five and the last
five cards of a run. Many other subjects have since
displayed the same scoring pattern-, and it is impor-
tant because it helps to relate extra-sensory percep-
tionjQttxejot]^ processes of mind and contriFutes
something toward its understanding.
Runs like those of Linzmayer 9 and 1 5 succes-
sive hits did not appear in Pearce's work. There
94 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
is one dazzling exception to this rule, though, and
it is worth a story in itself.
One day when I was working alone in the labora-
tory Pearce came by, not intending to take any
tests. He had no appointment with me, but I asked
him if he wanted to do a little extra work. He an-
swered that he had an engagement elsewhere. Re-
membering the Linzmayer episode in which I had
used pressure and insisted upon working, even
against the subject's evident desire, I asked Pearce
to try just a few calls. I picked up the pack of cards
with which I had been compiling a checkup on the
laws of chance and asked him to call the top card.
After he called five wrong in succession, which was
unusual for him, I began joking with him as to
where he was probably going and commented that
he must be very anxious indeed to get there, as evi-
denced by his score. Stirred by my teasing, or per-
haps by accident, he got three hits in the next five
cards* I felt then that he was definitely responding
to this unusual approach and X intensified the chal-
lenge*
'Til bet a hundred dollars you can't get this one/*
I said baateringly*
He did.
"Another hundred on this one/* I told him*
He got that card right too. I kept up my ruinous
betting and he kept on winning until he completed
2? hits m unbroken succession* As the cards were
FURTHER ADVANCES 95
called and observed^ they were returned to die pack
andTa cut made each time. Ordinarily in our tests
the card would not be looked at until the end of
a run of 25 and was not returned to the pack. But
this case was exceptional in every way. As Pearce
called the twenty-fifth card correctly there was a
definite break of tension in both of us. We declared
a halt by mutual consent.
Pearce's calling 25 cards in a row correctly was
the most phenomenal thing that I have ever ob-
served. If there is anyone in the world who can
believe that it was due to sheer luck, that would
be another phenomenon almost equally startling.
The odds against his feat having been due to pure
and undiluted chance are 1 in 298,023,223,876,-
953,125. The size of this figure is not intended to
stun the reader into believing in extra-sensory per-
ception on the spot, but to express, in this single
case, just how unlikely it is that luck could account
for that sequence of unbroken hits.
In this particular series I held the cards myself;
most of the time, as was his custom in making calls,
Pearce did not even glance at them. In fact, he had
not touched the pack of cards since coming into
the laboratory* He did not even sit down or take
off his topcoat.
When it was over, Pearce spontaneously said,
"Well, you'll never get me to do that again!"
"Why?" I asked. "You seemed to do it easily
enough/*
96 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
"Well* I don't know, but you will never get me
to do it again/*
That was all he could say in explanation of his
feelings. It was not that he was tired. The test had
not hurt him. The most one can infer with safety
is that anxiety not to miss each next call was a con-
stant, cumulative strain upon him, just as it would
have been in the case of any performance where
scoring on individual trials was important and a
perfect record the ultimate goal. We never did get
Pearce to do it again. For that matter, there never
was another situation as unique, one in which there
was an opportunity to challenge him without be-
ing taken too seriously. On the other hand, he may
have considered subconsciously that it would re-
quire unusual effort to repeat such a run, and since
he had already done it once, what adequate point
was there in doing it again? (The reader may won-
der whether Pearce ever collected his $2JOO. I need
only say that the sum approaches an average college
professor's yearly salary, which ought to be a satis-
factory reply,)
The levity of the situation was more important
than the money. In fact, the few times I have seri-
ously offered a money reward to subjects for gflgd
scoring have^jntoF been successfulL The subjects
themselves protest that such rewards interfere. I
doubt if this would be true for every subject, but
the students who were working In our laboratory
had, on the whole, sufficient motivation, and money
FURTHER ADVANCES 97
would have been a distraction. Some o them, al-
though they needed money badly, would not ac-
cept the hourly wage which subjects ^v^eoffgred as
a routine to justify* our demanding so much of
their time. Their interest in the work itself or their
friendship for the experimenter, which I acknowl-
edge most gratefully, furnished the main motiva-
tion both for most of the assistant experimenters
and for the subjects themselves.
From this point on, the story of our work with
Pearce is so intimately bound up with the many
ramifications of the entire research that it will be
best to reserve most of it for future chapters and
tell here only what happened in the end to his
career as an ESP subject. I had been fearing and ex-
pecting some sort of denouement; the history of
other good subjects had already warned me that
sooner or later something was likely to go wrong
with his scoring ability. Most of the subjects with
whom other investigators had worked, provided that
they did so long enough, had cometojin end of the
ability to demonstrate their special powers. There
was the early case of the Creery sisters, mentioned
in the third chapter of this book. Richet's prize sub-
ject, Leonie, declined in her results, as did Brug-
mans's good subject. Unfortunately, Pearce was to
confirm this general tendency as his last significant
98 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
contribution to our knowledge of ESP. After more
than two years of brilliant work, in which he mas-
tered difficulty after difficulty and carried through
one project after another, the thing I had been
dreading happened.
How Pearce carne to lose his capacity for exceg-
tional
extrg&SSn^rjF^
a personalstorv: One
morning he received a letter which greatly dis-
tressed him. Before coming to our laboratory he
mentioned this letter and its effect upon him to five
different people, including myself, and actually
showed the letter to one member of the laboratory
group, giving some additional personal details to
explain his reaction to it. Pearce openly declared
that he doubted his ability to do any effective work
that particular day, because, he said, of the state of
mind into which the letter had thrown him*
From then on, Pearce's work has been on a con-
spicuously different basis* There have been minute
flashes of ESP ability, but none at the level of his
earlier and more reliable performance* It now
seemed to be easier for him to $o below chance, if
anything, than above it. In the thousands of trials
made with him afterward many of them under
the same conditions as those of his previous work
his scores have averaged little better than what
could be expected from chance alone* We could not
explain this complete and sudden change in his
work, though we would have given much to know
tiarmjfr'rftP/4 in Iiic minrl T ilfA *%** rtt-k^ir
FUKTHER ADVANCES 99
he did not know in what way the extra-sensory im-
pressions came to him in the first place, and having
lost his confidence he does not know how to return
to his old way of perceiving them. In the years since
he left Duke he has made occasional attempts to
find out whether he could again equal his earlier
scoring, but so far he has been unable to do so.
Needless to say, the investigation of Pearce oc-
cupied the center of the stage for a long time. But
there was room for attention to more than one sub-
ject, and soon there were plenty of them* Indeed,
we had our hands full with more subjects than we
could do justice to. Had Pearce not been among us
and played the part he did, it is likely that some of
the others would have come forward and taken a
larger part in the experiments. Likewise, had we
been free to give more time to the research, the
work of the others would have developed further-
The three assistants I had by this time C. E. Stuart3
J. G. Pratt, Sara Ownbey were all graduate
students engaged in pursuing their advanced de-
grees, and I myself was supposed to be giving full
time to other university duties. Without the help
of these assistants at that period only a relatively
small part of the actual results would have been ac-
complished.
During the years 1932 and 1933 good subjects
100 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
seemed fairly to crowd in upon us. There was Miss
June Bailey, who was one of my students and who
already had a firm belief that she was capable of
unusual and extra-sensory insights. She believed also
that some of her relatives were likewise gifted. Her
laboratory performances certainly bore out her
confidence in her ability. Through some thousands
of trials she averaged between 8 and 10 hits on each
run.
T* Coleman Cooper, too, had preconceived be-
liefs regarding his powers, and again there was a
family history of such abilities. This was unknown
to me when he came into my office one day to con-
sult me on behalf of a friend. Like nearly every other
visitor, he was shown the card tests, and he and a
were persuaded to try calling them*
deeply interested, and Cooper did
remarkably well Ultimately he was able to score
reliably around 8 hits per 25 over thousands of
trials. Yet he did as well in my office that first day
as he ever did later on*
Another more or less casual contact brought In
Miss May Frances Turner, also a student* I believe
Miss Turner also came to see me in behalf of one
of her friends whom she thought I might be able
to help. She, too, belonged to that large number of
people who believe that they possess gifts in extra-
sensory awareness of things. However, like all those
who came into our tests, she was normal and sane
FURTHER ADVANCES 101
about the whole matter. Her averages through
many thousands of trials were in the neighborhood
of 9. This subject, a quiet and unassuming young
woman, turned out one of the most phenomenal
series on record when the experiments were de-
veloped to the point at which the condition of dis-
tance was introduced. The story, however, can
wait for a later chapter.
In connection with each of these subjects there
are some interesting personal details. Miss Bailey,
Miss Turner, and Mr. Cooper, for instance, be-
lieved that they had more than the ordinary amount
of intuition about people. They took their work
seriously and devotedly, two of them to the extent
that they felt it would be improper to accept the
regular wages. They all had a certain amount of
artistic interest or ability, two of them outstand-
ingly so. All three happened to be Southerners.
There was something of a missionary spirit in our
subjects, and on one occasion when Miss Turner
was good-naturedly challenged by one of her teach-
ers as to the genuineness of her ability she accepted
the challenge and offered to prove it. To her next
class period she brought a pack of cards and gave
them to the instructor, who held them behind a
book while they were being called. She averaged
over 8 hits per 25 in the four runs that were made.
This was significant scoring in itself; it would not
happen by chance alone once in 150 such series.
102 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
Very few subjects probably could have performed
under such conditions; they would hardly have had
the confidence and courage*
Oddest of all is the way we came to discover that
Miss Sara Ownbey was a good ESP subject. Miss
Ownbey was a graduate student in psychology who
was ably conducting, under my direction, an in-
vestigation into hypnotic treatment of a certain
physiological derangement of function. One day she
happened to witness an informal demonstration of
Pearce at work on the ESP tests. Now, Miss Own-
bey was a most conscientious person and a devoted
friend. She came to me and out of the kindness of
her heart endeavored to persuade me that there
must be something wrong, that Pearce must be de-
ceiving me. She thought that in some way or other
he was managing to follow cues on the cards, I re-
viewed some of the precautions we had already
taken, such as not allowing subjects an opportunity
to mark the cards, using new decks without telling
the subject, watching every move the subject made
while he was in the laboratory, and using screens
behind which the cards were wholly hidden. I tried
to show her that deception was impossible so far as
we could humanly judge. But she felt sure that
something of the sort must be going ont so finally I
suggested that she herself take a deck of ESP cards
away with her and try calling through a few runs;
if she could work out by cues a way of scoring as
high as Pearce had done and demonstrate her
FURTHER ADVANCES 103
method under the same laboratory conditions, that
demonstration would establish her point better
than any argument could.
A few days later she came in blushing, and said*
"Oh, Dr. Rhine, I feel so embarrassed!'* When I
inquired why, she admitted that she had tried some
of the card calling and that without needing to
employ the "cues" she had been so convinced Pearce
was using, she had got, among other scores, one as
high as H*
"Are you satisfied you weren't cheating?" I asked
her. Indeed she was. She became one of our best
subjects, although, because of her pronounced self-
consciousness, she was easily disturbed by observa-
tion. Her averages ranged between 8 and 11 under
different conditions. Though little of her work
could be done under my own observation, most of
it was supervised by other experimenters whose
ability and good faith I do not doubt.
Miss Ownbey, having become interested in the
work in extra-sensory perception, became my most
active and, on the whole, most gifted assistant. She
had an extraordinary ability to keep her subjects in
good working humor and at the same time maintain
conditions as desired. Never, from the beginning,
did she relax her suspicion, and from time to time
she would discuss frankly with me the possibility
of deception, even by her friends, simply in the
interests of scientific caution. For this protective
and loyal attitude, as well as for the enormous
104 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
amount of work done, I acknowledge here the great
contribution she rendered this study.
One of our good subjects we owe to a depart-
mental romance. This was another graduate student
in the department of psychology, George Zirkle. He
and Miss Ownbey had become unusually good
friends, and it was natural that she should try out
Zirkle's capacities for extra-sensory perception. She
was astonished by his scores. As a matter of fact, we
all were, including Zirkle himself, although he ad-
mitted that occurrences of a psychic nature had
happened more than once in his family.
The results of Zirkle's tests were very good.
While his average for the entire period of work was
between 8 and 9, some of his work ran to almost
twice that figure, and on one occasion he equaled
Pearce's most sensational run a perfect score of
2 5 successive hits. Had Zirkle been in Pearce's place
he probably would have done as welL Zirkle worked
almost entirely under the direction of Miss Own-
bey, which may help to account for the fact that
she is now Mrs* Zirkle. Other witnesses were
brought in later to observe his tests, and conse-
quently responsibility for the soundness of his work
does not rest upon the observation of only one per-
son.
Once, during the period of Zirkfe's best work
when he was averaging in the neighborhood of 14,
he suffered an attack of influenza. It was not severe,
FURTHER ADVANCES 105
but dragged on for approximately two weeks.
During this period his scores, though still averaging
above 8, represented a great drop from his previous
record. After the period of illness was over, his
scores again rose to their original level.
In fact, most of our subjects of this period either
underwent declines in scoring rate or else stopped
taking the tests. Miss Turner, Miss Bailey, and
Cooper, for one reason or another, discontinued.
The ways in which Linzmayer, Stuart, and Pearce
lost their faculty of high scoring have already been
described. Both Mr. and Mrs. Zirkle fell off in their
scoring abilities about the time of their marriage,
though I do not think this happy event had any-
thing to do with the decline unless the very natural
shift of interest was a factor. It seems more likely
that they, too, had worn out the original interest,
and that the kind of interest which remained was of
the technical scientific sort, too abstract and intel-
lectual to vitalize an otherwise laborious and mo-
notonous procedure. It is not difficult to appreciate
the possibility of getting tired of our tests after
being through tens of thousands of them day after
day in the same routine way.
At this time we discovered many good subjects
of whom there is not space in this book to speak;
at least ten others satisfied the statistical require-
ments for demonstrating some principle beyond
chance causation as the explanation of their scores.
106 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
The group of 18 of which I speak was selected
from a total of about SO persons whom we tested in
our search for subjects. This does not mean that
the remaining number had no ESP ability. Few, if
any, of them were tested far enough to establish a
negative conclusion. None of the subjects tested
adequately in our laboratory was completely nega-
tive. Two of them reported negative results after
what seemed a sufficient number of tests (not made
for our records) in their own rooms. There may
have been others tested under similar conditions of
whom I did not hear. Some of the rest merely
yielded initial low results, and since we had many
promising subjects, they were not urged to con-
tinue. A number did not have sufficient interest to
return for further work after a preliminary test
period which was not conclusive one way or the
other.
However, by this time it seemed entirely safe to
estimate that at least one in five of the persons
tested showed ESP capacity. It is interesting that in
such surveys of the frequency of occurrence of
spontaneous psychic experiences as those made by
the English Society for Psychical Research and by
Dr. Prince of the Boston Society for Psychic Re-
search, the estimates varied from 1 in 4 to 1 in 7
people. Our estimate of 1 in J extra-sensorily per-
ceptive persons shows an interesting correlation
to these figures.
FURTHER ADVANCES 107
Several questions have been frequently raised
concerning what conditions favor discovery of good
ESP subjects, especially among those already in-
terested in the phenomena of this field* How did
you discover them? What did you do at Duke to
get so many subjects? Is it a matter of climate? Is
it the southern stock? Is it your personality? Is it
the nature of your tests? It is a difficult task to an-
swer these questions adequately, but it is not impos-
sible. The many investigators in other places who
have already followed our directions have generally
been successful. A few have tried to repeat our
tests without following our methods and without
keeping in touch with us, and most of these have
failed. In one case an experimenter reversed his
earlier tactics, began asking us for suggestions, and
promptly found some success.
In general little can be said about finding sub-
jects for extra-sensory perception work that cannot
equally be said of such well-established human ac-
tivities as teaching the arts, or any profession requir-
ing particular ability in getting co-operation from
other people. I will not attempt here to defend or
justify these instructions. So far they have proved
effective with us, but it may well be that some of
them will later be found less necessary; than we be-
lieve them to be at present*
108 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
First, the rnff^jga
1
? ki^^lf shoTiltl hf intPr^
ested in obtaining goodLresuIts high scores* If for
any reason he is not,he should be able to lay aside
his inhibitions and play his part as a good sport. A
critical or fussy investigator would be as much out
of place in this kind of work as he would be as
cheerleader at a football game or as teacher in a
school
The better the investigator can communicate a
wholehearted enthusiasm, confidence, and encour-
agement to the subjects, the better are hJs chances
for success. Some subjects require a challenging atti-
tude, others a sympatheticjgng.
Some will need to
Ibave their attention fcepFfrom resting too much on
the scores and technicalities of their work, others
ought to be taken fully into the confidence of the
investigator.
The experimenter must maintain a high level of
interest on the part of the subject throughout the
experiment. But it is important to emphasize that
this interest must not be a merely intellectual one,
For that reason complicated intellectual discussions
and arguments are best left out of the laboratory.
The subject should be made as curious and eager
as possible to see what scores he can make. If the
subject cannot maintain curiosity and interest of an
active character, it is better to discontinue the
tests.
I attribute my own difficulties as a subject to this
overdeveloped intellectual interest in the process*
FURTHER ADVANCES 109
When I begin taking the tests I soon become
furiously introspective and want to know what is
taking place in my own mind. I wonder about my
score, and many of the daily associations of the
research come crowding into consciousness. Then
I am lost so far as extra-sensory perception is con-
cerned. Qnly when T ratrVi
mysplf
nff
ft^H f^T)
I keep above chance average. By calling 5, 10, or at
most 15 cards, and stopping when my intruding
ulterior interests are aroused, I can score at the
average of 7 hits per 25. My first 215 calls aver-
aged but slightly under this and are significant. But
in a later series of 1,650 calls made with no regard
for mental state I averaged only 5.3 hits per 25,
which is too slightly above chance to be reliable.
I have often felt that experience as a salesman
in my college days has stood me in good stead in
directing this research. The task of the salesman, in
the best sense of that word, is to inspire interest
and enthusiasm and create confidence. For some
people this is by training or native ability a difficult
thing to do, while for others it is easy. Those who
find it hard should not undertake to experiment in
this field, just as* I think it would be agreed, they
should not undertake to carry out experiments in
hypnotic research or in any other work in which
suggestion or the direct person^ farfjhiqace pn the
actions of others is an essential fo success. It is in-
teresting to observe that a number of those who
have been successful in this work have also been
110 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
successful hypnotists. Professor Richet, Dr. Esta-
brooks, some of my assistants here, such as Mrs.
Zirkle (Miss Ownbey) , Dr. Pratt, Mr. Stuart, and
myself, not to mention a number of Continental
physicians such as Dr. Alfred Backman, of Sweden,
Pierre Janet, of France, and several others who fig-
ure in the literature of the subject.
However difficult it may be to help subjects to
score well in ESP tests, it is easy enough to prevent
their doing so. I have already described a number of
the conditions which will do this, but I shall repeat
them here. First, if there as a strongly distracting
situation, such as the presence of a number of
witnesses or bcinft "put on the spoty** failure is as-
sured* If the subject is placed in a critical atmos-
phere and made to feel that the task is a hopeless
one, he Is pretty certain to fail* If he is not interested
or is antagonistic to the research or the investigator^
anegative deviation instcadof a positive one ftiay
rgult^Certainly a positive one cannot be expected.
Narcotic drugs, of course, lower scores, but even
the miUiy narcotic effect of extreme fatigue or
sleepiness is enough to lessen the likelihood of ocd
results* as indeed is the case in other sorts of work.
The thing that is most likely to prevent good
scoring in psychological laboratories is a wooden
and inflexible routine into which the subject has to
fit himself no matter how he is feeling and regard-
less of his degree of interest a routine to which
he must adhere until his daily requirement of tests
FURTHER ADVANCES 111
is fulfilled. At Duke we tried testing forty subjects
under such a cut-and-dried system and found only
one good scorer in the lot. On the other hand, by
picking up whoever comes along, and using as much
tact and salesmanship (if you like) as we can, we
succeed much more often than not in getting a
significant score once friendly co-operation is fully
established.
CHAPTER VII
The First Serious Criticism
AT THIS STAGE OF THE STORY NOBODY SHOULD
take the existence of extra-sensory perception on
faith, What the two preceding chapters have done
is to describe certain experiments with cards, tell
about the scores which some subjects were able to
make with them, and quote the odds against guess-
work or chance as the explanation. The tests as a
whole, or in their natural subdivisions, gave results
that are clearly beyond the best that could be ex-
pected from the so-called laws of luck. A figure of
over a thousand digits would beacquired to express
the unlikelihood of that sol^tjon. Some other factor
was causing our results, and so far it has been called
"extra-sensory perception** in a noncommittal way.
In explaining the results of these tests a more
abstract citation of mathematical odds against
chance as the explanation of our findings is not suf-
ficient. People want every question and doubt an-
swered before they are convinced, and indeed it ti
sensible to look over again and again every possible
alternative before accepting such a revolutionary
explanation a$ our hypothesis of extra-sensory
perception. Then, too, the tests on which it is
based are so incompatible with certain widely ac-
112
THE FIRST SERIOUS CRITICISM 113
cepted points of view that even though we have
found many subjects who can produce high scores
there is
perhaps a flaw in the method itself or in the
way of handling the results. Is chance really ex-
cluded by the mathematics used? However conclu-
sive the figures appear, is there not a possibility that
the mathematics used in deriving them is faulty or
is wrongly applied?
*
Now, of course, my associates particularly Mr.
Stuart, who is mathematically trained and I have
been asking ourselves these questions from the very
beginning. We have had others doing it in other
places. We have been in touch with mathematical
people all along the way, but most readers have not.
For their sake I shall take up these questions here
and see if I can show whether we have adequately
excluded chance as a possible explanation. This is
important because, if there is doubt at this crucial
point, the rest of this book will not be even inter-
esting.
2
To begin with, let us take a simple, common-
sense view of the results of the tests. On that basis
there are two things to be compared: (1) the scores
a subject gets by actually calling the cards through
a long series of runs and (2) the scores secured in
tests where no subjects called the cards at all
simply cross-matching one deck against another. As
we have already seen, thousands of these tests have
14 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
worked out to an average of almost exactly 5.0, and
vhen you reflect that mechanical shufflers have been
imployed in some of tnese control tests^as they are
railed, it is impossible to believe that they did not
exclude the faculty or condition, or whatever it
Kras, that made the higher scores of the human sub-
jects possible* But that is not all the precaution we
lave taken on this point. Thousands and thousands
:>f other matchings have been made to cross-check
calls by the subjects themselves. This is easily done
by using a different pack from the one against
which he made his calls say> the order of the deck
in the run before or the run after* Thus* the records
of the subject's calls in his second run are compared
with the actual order of the cards in his first or his
third run* This, too, ought to exclude extra-sensory
perception because the calls were never intended
for the cards against which they are checked*
One of the very first things that was done in the
evaluation of Pearce's scoring was to take his first
thousand ESP trials and compare them jgjjtji
a&ousand card records taken from the same pack
CKtra-sensory perception was in-
volvcd; In other words, a thousand of his calls were
checked against cards that he did not intend them
to match. The cross-check series of 1,000 approxi-
mated 5 very closely, giving 5 .1 as a result, while
Pearce's first thousand trials averaged 9.6 hits per
25 almost double the amount. Various other kinds
of cross-checks have been made, as well as the simple
THE FIRST SERIOUS CRITICISM 115
matching of one pack of cards against another, and
in no case has there been any important departure
from the theoretical chance average of 5.0. It is
just as easy, then, for one to judge by common sense
that something is shown where the results average
9.6 as it would be to look into one's account book
and find that there was a profit if the average sale
amounted to $9.60 and the cost was $5.10.
For a long time one of my friends, who did not
understand the mathematics of probability very
well, kept repeating, "But sometime you may find
your subjects going just as far in the other direction
as now they are going above chance/*
In reply I used to appeal to his common sense
and say, "For two years now Pearce, to say nothing
of the others, has been coming in here several days
a week and has been leaving every day a positive
deviation. He never goes below chance unless we
ask him to* When we do ask him to go below chance
and deliberately try to miss
so. sometimes scoring zero, The fact that he can go
low at will and can regularly go high for so long
a period must be the answer to your claim that we
are having just a run of luck. Such voluntary scor-
ing is the very opposite of chance. This man can
get a score of 9 or 10 if I ask him for a high score;
if I ask him to run low, he can get a 1 or 0; ca|i
go back up on the next run if I say liigh* and down
on dhe run succeeding that if I say "low/ If this is
a matter of chance performance, then the rise and
NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
fall of that steam shovel I see out the window is a
chance performance. And even if the subject does
reverse later, and go regularly below for two years?
A man may make money on his sales every day for
two years; then he may turn round and sell at a
loss for the next two years and lose it all again. Is
that to say that the whole performance was merely
chance?**
3
Most striking to the people who want the point
made as simple as possible are the long unbroken
stretches of successive hits* Even 5 successive hits
represents odds of more than 3,000 to 1 against a
chance occurrence. But when one gets up into 9\
1 5*s, and finally 2S*s, one need only know the multi-
plication table to follow through and find out what
the chances are of such an event's being due to
nothing but random factors* Or you can even dis-
pense with the multiplication table. Actually, all
we have to convince us of the occurrence of things
in life is simple repetition in unbroken succession*
Apply the simple, everyday rules of common seme
to these long stretches, and few people would be
likely to say they were accidental.
Fortunately for the skeptics of common sense,
the mathematics which applies to these cases has
been in use for many years and lias been recognized
over and over again by the authorities in the field of
special determinations of probability. It was first
THE FIRST SERIOUS CRITICISM 117
applied to these problems back in the eighties and
nineties by the physiologist, Professor Richet, and
it was then used essentially as today. It was used
again by Coover (who, you will recall, mistook his
evidence to be against nonsensory perception) , by
Estabrooks, and by several others, including the ex-
perts called in to evaluate the results of the widely
publicized Scientific American tests for telepathy.
It has had the endorsement of the leading authorities
of England and America. To my knowledge no
question of its validity has been raised by any pro-
fessional statistician or mathematician of prob-
ability.
Granted, then, that the mathematics is sound and
appropriate to these results, have we somehow made
a mistake in the way we have applied it? There is
a good test for this too: we may know reliably that
we have not made such a mistake, because we get
only figures appropriate to chance when we apply
the mathematical tests in the same way to experi-
ments carried out under conditions identical in
every point with the test experiments, except that,
since no human mind has made any of the calls in
the series, ESP has been so positively excluded that
only chance factors can possibly be operative. From
these non-ESP experiments we get the same re-
sults to be anticipated from mere chance data. At
the moment of writing, a group of papers is going
to press for the Journal of Parapsychology report-
ing such parallel experiments. In every case chance
118 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
conditions give figures that would be expected. In
every case the ESP tests, differing only in that ex-
tra-sensory perception was allowed to operate if it
could, show that something beyond chance is at
work. There is logically no criticism left to level at
the use of the mathematics in the case.
So much for chance. We have had it as our ever-
present competitor* We have always been alert to its
claims. But as a theory for these results it "hasn't a
chance**!
But suppose the subject has personal preferences
and calls twice as many circles as other symbols.
Might this not favor him? The answer is "no** since,
even if he called all 2? of the cards circles, the most
he could get would be J* The more circles he calls
the greater chance he has, of course, of getting a
good proportionate score among the five circles in
the pack* but a proportionately small chance is left
for his getting the other twenty cards right* Pref-
erence cannot help him on his total score.
Can any method of shuffling the cards or any
natural sequence of cuts give peculiar upcurvcs or
downcurves in the scoring of these control scries?
The many practical test checks that have been made
on just this point furnish the best answer* They
average close to 5, with no long-drawn-out
stretches of runs that would yield significant devia-
tions.
For years one of the most common objections that
we encountered was: "But might not the subject
THE FIRST SERIOUS CRITICISM 119
use reasoning, as in card games? Suppose he has
called all the symbols five times over except one
let us say, star arid he has two calls to make. Will
he not reason that these how must be stars because
he has called all the others?'* Obviously, as I have
suggested already, he has no way of knowing
whether or not the other calls have been correct, so
it would be most unfounded reasoning to conclude
that the last two must be stars. Only if he knew the
correctness of the cards already called could reason-
ing: kelp ]himTl<^nd this he does not know. Therefore,
the chances remain the same on the twenty-fifth
call as on the first, since he is just as ignorant about
what that card is.
"Might not a subject use some system of advan-
tage to him?" How can he, if he has nothing to go
on? If he does not know whether his calls are cor-
rect or incorrect, no system could work. A system
without a basis in fact would be nothing but a
delusion.
A curious question has been raised and vehe-
mently urged in one or two places. It is supposed
that all our investigators in this research might be
stopping at some strategic moment say, after
some high scores have been made and just before a
series of low ones might be made. The very essence
of this question is to assume that we can tell some-
how by previous runs what the next ones are going
to be. If our results are due to chance, this could not
be done* What we mean by the term "chance" is the
.20 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
rery absence of a fixed order and predictability,
rlowever, to settle the matter, one of my critical
:olleagues, who believed this was a weakness in our
work, tested out the supposed principle in actual
experimentation and found no evidence of it*
At times we have been told that perhaps some-
thing is wrong with our using a pack of 25 cards,
and we have been urged to try packs of 100 or
1>000. There are no adequate mathematical grounds
available for such insistence, and even from a com-
mon-sense point of view it Is difficult to see what
difference it would make. However, some of our
best work has been done without adhering strictly
to a pack of 2S. It will be recalled that J*carce*s
twenty-five straight successes were made by^aliinj^
one card, checking it at onccTreturnm^ it to tl^g
gack,
and cutting In"this way the pack was an un-
ending one* It might have been a hundred or a thou-
sand or any other number* Considerable later work
has been done with packs of ?0, aarid on some occa-
sfons of even larger sfoe.
After weighing all the criticism we have been able
to get in seven years* time, I have come to feel as
much security in the general soundness of the re-
search as is good for an investigator in science to
have* Reflecting upon the enormous amount of
work that has been done here and elsewhere, it seems
!)*^^^ ^'
y ! " :
- ^{
$#
A SHUFFLING BOX TO INSURE MECHANICAL SHUFFLING.
THE LID IS PUT ON AND THE BOX SLOWLY TIPPED, ONE
END UP AND THEN DOWN, NOT LESS THAN FIVE TIMES.
FIVE ESP CARDS ARE DISPLAYED AGAINST THE LID OF
THE BOX.
THE FIRST SERIOUS CRITICISM 121
to me that no inferential scientific conclusion has
ever had so much evidence in its support; that is,
in excluding a chance hypothesis. The mathematics
has been questioned,^ yes, but not by a single mathe-
matician. Two psychologists have written a total
of four articles criticizing it, but the author of three
of them has become satisfied that his criticisms do
no apply now that he has what he feels is sufficient
further information. A third psychologist has more
recently published a review of the criticisms, and
he asserts that the statistics used in this research are
substantially correct.
Among mathematicians the best authority is
with us* Confbrmatory mathematical checks have
mounted by tens of thousands, not only in this
laboratory but in a number of other places. It is
difficult to see what further mathematical criteria
can be applied to evaluate the results of our tests.
Thus far, it would appear, we have been on sound
territory. Whatever we have claimed to be beyond
chance has stood the tests and is safe. But our ex-
periments are still going on. They are going on
into yet more meaningful, more revolutionary lines.
The strain upon this mathematics of probability
will be increasingly great with every advancing step
along the lines we are at present following. With
the enormously greater burden anticipated for this
technique of evaluation, it is high time that we se-
cure the last word, both in criticism and in support.
We shall need it.
CHAPTER VIII
1$ It Sensory or Extra-Sensory?
IF THE RESULTS IN OUR EXPERIMENTATION CAN-
not be explained by chance, what is the next weak-
est link to be inspected? Most critical people would
suggest that the accurate calls might be actually
due to sensory rather than gytry~spr>sQry ^ugp; that
is, some kind of signal to the subject who is calling
the cards* Several such almost-imperceptible indi-
cations, conveyed by one of the recognized senses,
are conceivable. In the third chapter we mentioned
that the psychologist Lehmann thought the early
results of the English Society for Psychical Research
were due to involuntary whispering, which, of
course, would give auditory sensory cues.
In this card work, however, since no one knew
what symbol a given card contained, it would be
necessary to look for visual sensory cues or tactual
ones obtained from touching the cards. Such cues
might be quite unconsciously perceived by the
subject, as psychologists know, though such uncon-
scious perception would be rather unusual. Further-
more, we have to allow for the possibility of espe-
cially sensitive vision or touch, something beyond
that of the average individual* A few people may
122
IS IT SENSORY OR EXTRA-SENSORY? 123
even suppose that our good subjects are simply in-
dividuals with unusually acute sensory or tac-
tua!._sgggation, technically called ^hyperesrfiesia/*
Whether or not any great amount ok typeresthesla
ever actually occurs is doubtful, but to some people
almost anything is more reasonable than the conclu-
sion that extra-sensory perception is a fact.
The best way of answering the question, "Will
sensory cues explain the Duke results?" is to judge
for yourself from a brief account of the results. Let
us begin with the simplest argument against the
occurrence of sensory cues: If there are sensory cues
on the cards themselves, then there must be, of
course, marks or peculiarities on them. Second, these
marks must be in some way linked up by the sub-
ject with the symbols on the faces of the cards.
He will have to know the connection between the
marks and the symbols, and that in turn presupposes
an opportunity to learn this connection. Otherwise
the supposed marks will simply not work as sen-
sory cues for him. The easiest way to avoid this
possibility is to use new cards which have never been
in his hands before.
Pass over the fact that with the hundreds of packs
of cards that have been used in the laboratory there
must always have been first runs which would
not have allowed the subject an opportunity to
acquire sensory cues. Ignore the point that it is
extremely difficult for anyone to learn such cues
when he can see only the backs of the cards at the
124 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
time he is calling twenty-five in succession, and
their faces only when the cards are turned over at
the checkup. Finally, overlook the further point
that some subjects, of whom Zirkle is a conspicuous
example, never^glance at the cards at; all when they
are calling them, and others, like Miss Bailey and
Pearce, look at the cards only rarely* Omitting all
these considerations, let me cite a definite and pre-
cise experiment designed to meet this point. I took
twenty-five new packs of cards and gave them out
one at a time to Pearce, who was at this time being
allowed to handle the cards himself. I did not call
any special attention to the cards* being new. He
was given three runs each with these new decks in
the usual way. Now, if sensory cues were being fol-
lowed, the results of the first runs with each of these
new packs placed before Pearce for the first time
should have dropped to an average of the chance
expectation J.O. Instead, they were well above 9
and were quite on a par with the results of his
work on other packs at tibat time. The second and
third runs were very close also: they averaged, for
41 tfrp dflglra, ?.4r
9.2T
and 9.8.
When investigators into extra-sensory phenom-
ena claim to achieve results as startling as ours,
certain people believe that they can be explained
away by a particular type of expert. Perhaps be-
cause of the work of the late Harry Houdini,
magicians are quite widely believed to be able to
duplicate almost any phenomenon that is hard for
IS IT SENSORY OR EXTRA-SENSORY? 125
the rest of us to explain. On one occasion when I
was working with Pearce I invited my friend Wal-
lace Lee, the well-known magician, to watch
Pearce's tests. Not only did Lee generously admit
that he saw no way in which Pearce might be em-
ploying sensory cues, but when invited to do so, he
tried to duplicate Pearce's results under identical
conditions and without success. He told us frankly
that he was convinced of the absence of any kind
of useful sensory indication on the cards and con-
fessed that Pearce's scores mystified him. Naturally
Lee is familiar with a wide range of forms of de-
ception based on sensory cues, and the story of his
visit may therefore interest those people who feel
that sensory cues (or trickery) can possibly ex-
plain our results.
2
So far, then, as sensory cues on the cards them-
selves are concerned, these answers are probably all
that even the severest critic could demand.
But is it possible that the card face was reflected
from some shiny surface? No, for in most tests the
card was called before it was lifted from the pack..
The particular technique for this kind of test is
called "BT" before touching. It means simply
that each card is called before it is touched by any-
one*
There is no better way of answering questions in
this field, however, than by answering them in ten
126 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
different experimental ways. Therefore, suppose
that there is something inadequate about the check
results furnished by working with new packs. The
DT work must then be considered next. DT means
"down through," calling the cards down through
the pack without removing any of them until the
whole pack has been called. Thus the subject is able
to see the back of only the top card, and even if
there had been a code mark actually printed or
otherwise indicated on the back of each card, and
the subject had memorized the code of marks, he
would still have been unable to get sensory help on
any but the top card. At first some subjects felt that
DT was a much more difficult procedure and hesi-
tated to try it, but eventually most of them did it
successfully. Although they did not seem to do it
as successfully as when the BT technique was em-
ployed, the difficulty was evidently psychological,
as was proved by an analysis of the results. Morehits
were made in the first five .calls and in the last five
calls down through the pack than were mad^injthg
fifteen cqr<fc between. There seemed to be some
difficulty in keeping track of the cards through the
center of the pack, which again suggests more fa-
miliar mental processes like memorizing* For in-
stance, Pearce averaged about 7.5 on his DT work;
this score is a significant one, and high enough to
prove the point that he could not have been depend-
ing upon sensory cues.
Another way of testing for sensory cues was the
IS IT SENSORY OR EXTRA-SENSORY? 127
simple one of placing an opaque screen in front of
the cards^o that the subject could not see them. In
the screen trials with Pearce, his averages for differ-
ent conditions ran between 8.3 and 9.7. In other
words, the elimination of the possibility of sensory
cues by using a screen did not retard his good scor-
ing. With our present work in the laboratory, the
screening has become almost a routine condition.
Many of the results of the more recent work with
newly developed types of screens has already been
printed in the Journal of Parapsychology. At
Tarkio College (Tarkio, Missouri) , J. L. Woodruff
and Dr. R. W. George found a man who did much
better scoring with a screen than without it. Per-
haps the climax in screening thus far has been
reached in the experiments at Duke of the Misses
Margaret M. Price and Margaret H. Pegram, who
screened the cards even when working with blind-
from-birth subjects, and still obtained scores in-
dicatinff extra-sensory perception. In one series o3E
tests the cards, in addition to being screened, were
sealed in opaque envelopes, but this did not prevent
the blind subjects from perceiving the symbols in-
side.
Later in this book there will be an account of a
dramatic series of tests that still further bears out
our contention that sensory cues are not the answer
to the high scores made by our subjects. These are
the runs made when the subject and the investigator
were separated by distance, in some cases as much
128 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
as a 100 yards, and actually situated in different
buildings. Scores made under these conditions were
more than significant, and sensory cues were play-
ing no part in producing them. In later publica-
tions, too, there will be more of these distance tests
with even greater distances*
But even if none of the known senses can ac-
count for the results of these ESP tests, what
about the
"
sixth sense"? May we not have evidence
here of a hidden, an unknown sense? The natural
tendency upon examining our results is to conclude
offhand that we are dealing with an unknown sense.
When Frederic Myers invented the word "teles-
thesia" to cover what we are calling "clairvoyance"
in this book* he apparently intended the term to
mean literally "sensing at a distance/* For a similar
purpose Professor Richet coined the word "cryp-
testhesia/* which means "hidden sense/* Other such
terms have been devised.
The trouble with this idea of a new "sixth" sense
is that the extra-sensory perceptive phenomenon
does not behave like sensation* All we know about
it so far fails to agree with any version of the sen-
sory theory-^call it "hidden/* "cryptic," "sixth,"
or what you will In ESP there is
localization as there is with the senses; no one can
say as yet that any particular part of the body re-
IS IT SENSORY OR EXTRA-SENSORY? 129
ceives the ESP impression. Some subjects think they
can, but this idea is easily proved an hallucination.
What is more, no angle of orientation is needed.
A subject may turn any part of his body toward the
card with equal success.
With the most comparable sense vision the
angle of the card is important too. Not so with
extra-sensory perception. Distance from the object
also is enormously important to the senses. Appar-
ently not to ESP. Big symbols are more easily seen
than very small ones, but in ESP either an enor-
mously wide range of perception is possible or else
it makes no reliable difference how large or small
the symbol is. Mrs. Rhine has thoroughly demon-
strated this fact in work with child subjects, and
the few similar tests with Pearce, which I mentioned
earlier, had indicated this to be true. It is possible,
of course, that none of these tests is exhaustive
enough to be final on the distinction between sen-
sory and extra-sensory perception. But from the
survey of the facts now at hand it appears that
extra-sensory perception is fundamentally different
from sensation. Certainly in ESP no known energy
serves as the medium to convey the impression to
the percipient. All the common ones have been
ruled out, as we shall see later on.
Many other processes of the mind are not sensory
either. Reasoning, memory, and all the imagina-
tional judgments which men use in creative work,
whether it be artistic, religious, or some other kind,
130 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
are also made in the absence of objective sensory
stimuli. They are, of course, perceptual, they do
not furnish direct knowledge of the outside world,
and their processes are just as far beyond the senses
as is this unknown mode of perception which we
are investigating; it does not supernaturalize the
mind simply to discover that it has some extra-
sensory capacities in the field of perception. No
discriminating person, therefore, will view our
findings as mystical, occult, or supernatural merely
because they are not based on sensory reports.
Some of the people who have taken an interest
in these experiments have suggested the hypothesis
that extra-sensory perception is due to a primordial
sense, now atavistic in man; that it came before the
other senses, is more general, and perhaps depends
on every body cell for its reception. Others consider
it a superdevelopment of the five senses, a crown-
ing achievement of the nervous system, and the
frail signs of it that we find are but the promise of
great powers toward which we are evolving*
But until there is fori&coming some better evi-
dence favoring the view that what we call ESP is
sensory, or is like the senses in at least some respects,
I cannot see any encouragement for either of these
views. I am more inclined to expect the final ex-
planation to come from a fundamental readjust-
ment of our view of mind and its relation to the
world of the senses. For several centuries we have
IS IT SENSORY OR EXTRA-SENSORY? 131
been trying to fit mind into the materialistic
world of sensation. If it does not wholly fit in, per-
haps this is because it has properties which are just
as reliable and lawful, but different. There is noth-
ing unscientific about this. The idea appears to me
to be fully naturalistic. On the other hand, I hope
to avoid blinding myself to any of the facts be-
cause of the extreme antimystical terror to which
many scientists are subject. It is dangerous to be
stampeded in either direction on this most signifi-
cant issue.
A few persons may be willing to believe that
every one of the investigators in the Duke experi-
ments has been so incompetent all these years as
persistently to make errors in the same direction,
thus accounting for the high scores reported. Ac-
tually one English critic went so far as to write us
that for him this explanation was preferable to the
theory of clairvoyance. He could accept telepathy;
but clairvoyance? Rather the theory of cumulative
error! No matter if several persons are involved,
they must all be making errors repeatedly in the
same direction. The only way I can answer this
critic is to refer him to the next chapter, which de-
scribes the discoveries made by investigators in
colleges and universities outside Duke. If other re-
searches keep on substantiating ours, he will even-
132 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
tually give up his belief that we are poor calculators
or scorers.
I know, too, that there is at least one critic, also
an Englishman, who believes that my assistants,
subjects, and colleagues have all been "pulling my
leg," practicing a systematic and consummate de-
ception. Such an event would not be entirely with-
out precedent. There is a rumor about a chemist
who was seeking to transmute mercury into gold
and who had an assistant more sympathetic than
reliable. This assistant dropped traces of gold into
the solution in order to encourage his chief, pre-
sumably believing that the gold ought theoretically
to be there anyhow! A great Russian scientist is
supposed to have been victimized by a too-helpful
assistant who anticipated the outcome of the ex-
periment and helped it along in the wrong way.
Best known of all is the German geologist whose
students prankishly buried fossils for him to "dis-
cover," arranged in line with his own theory, finally
even helping him to dig up one bearing his own
initials.
I could put up a strong defense, I believe, for
the generally fine character of the group of men
and women with whom I have worked* The "leg-
pulling** conspiracy would have to include mem-
bers of my own family and persons who arc now
staff members of college institutions; in all, a score
of persons, some of whom did not know one an-
IS IT SENSORY OR EXTRA-SENSORY? 133
other. But again the easiest reply is reference to the
findings of researches in other places.
Of all the obstacles to acceptance of the evidence
for ESP, the most difficult to deal with is that which
the critic cannot himself formulate. "There must
be a snag in it somewhere," he will say. "You have
not given enough details" is another way of saying
that he cannot see what is wrong but is quite sure
that something is.
Recently a distinguished chemist visited our lab-
oratory and generously spent several hours arguing
that there must be something basically wrong with
our work purely on general grounds. He had
several times helped to expose error in his own
field and felt that he knew the erroneous type of
work by its general appearance, by certain symp-
toms. He did not see the particular snag in our
case, but he knew it was there! He will, however,
find it much harder to suppose an invisible snag
in a dozen different researches* conducted with
different conditions and personnel, than in the case
of a solitary project.
In science it is customary to suspend judgment
on a new discovery until it is confirmed by an-
other laboratory. Rarely is more than one such
repetition needed unless there is special reason for
being doubtful If the Duke research had remained
unconfirmed for a long time, its standing would
have been a relatively insecure one. Fortunately, it
134 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
did not stand alone even at the start. As the third
chapter has already made clear, it followed a long
series of investigations of extra-sensory perception.
And in turn it has been followed by a long series
of researches of still better quality, on the whole,
than those which preceded it.
CHAPTER IX
The Work of Other Laboratories
ONE OF THE MOST INTERESTING INVESTIGATIONS
of extra-sensory phenomena conducted by research
workers in outside laboratories was begun even be-
fore the first results of the Duke experiments were
published in 1934. It was, therefore, an entirely in-
dependent study. The experimenter, Dr. Hans
Bender, was a young psychologist at the German
university of Bonn. In 1933 he began tests which
led him to conclude that extra-sensory perception
is a genuine occurrence, and which made at least
a beginning on the task of finding out where this
process fits into the recognized system of mind.
The work consisted of tests for clairvoyance
made on a single subject a graduate student,
Fraulein D at Bonn. Dr. Bender had discovered
the capacities of Fraulein D while he was making
some explorations into automatic movements and
using an ouija board as part of his technique. In the
course of these tests he became aware that his sub-
ject was responding to letters without looking at
them even when she had not seen or otherwise
known their positions. In follow-up tests he became
convinced that she was clairvoyant. Although this
135
136 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
work was done independently of the experiments
at Duke, and followed a quite different method, its
confirmation of the American findings is clear at
many points in Bender's report. And, in addition, it
made an original contribution to our knowledge of
the field*
In further experiments with Fraulein D, Bender
used 27 cards on which were drawn the 26 letters
of the alphabet and also a period, or point. These
cards were placed in separate opaque envelopes by
an assistant and shuffled so that Bender himself did
not know, when he chose one, what letter he had.
He handed the envelope to the subject, who was
in a reclining position, and she held it under a heavy
dark cloth. Under this cloth she removed the card
from the envelope and handled it freely. The card
was covered with heavy cellophane, which elimi-
nated any possible tactual cues. This condition, in
which the subject handled the card, was the least
guarded one that Bender used. Several other con-
ditions were tried among them one where the en-
velope was placed in a box on a shelf, and another
in which it was pinned to a curtain behind the
seated subject. But under none of these conditions
did the subject succeed so well as when having tac-
tual contact with the cellophane-covered card.
Bender himself took a record of all remarks the
subject made. In some cases she made drawings as
well. These drawings give the impression that in
a peculiar, groping way the subject was unques-
THE WORK OF OTHER LABORATORIES 137
tionably perceiving the letter on the card in more
instances than she could have done by chance alone.
Bender does not give a statistical treatment of his
work and he carried out too few tests; in all, there
were only 134* There were 37 successes. If each en-
velope be counted as a single trial, only J successes
would be expected by chance alone. A control ex-
periment which was carried out in connection with
this work gives the best assurance that more than
mere chance was operative in Bender's experiment.
In this control test another envelope was chosen
against which to match the subject's responses,
simply as a check* From Bender's report it is
easy;
to see without the aid of mathematical treat-
ment that the subject did better on the envelopes
she was trying to perceive than on the control series
that were simply selected arbitrarily.
Even some of the subject's mistakes are sugges-
tive and illuminating. Something of the form-
quality of the letter would show up in these trials
more often than not, even if she failed to get the
whole letter. For instance, rounded figures would be
drawn in cases where the card with which she was
working carried a letter such as O C, or Q, and an-
gular ones for letters like K, T, L.
It was this similarity of the form-quality to the
letter on the card that specially interested Bender
and led him to make what is a unique contribu-
tion to the study. He found that when his subject
was trviner to set a letter form bv extra-sensorv
NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
perception she got first a vague, fragmentary
image which became more and more like the letter
involved until at last it was clear enough for recog-
nition. Bender knew that the early, fragmentary
bits of a visual image which his subject got when
perceiving by ESP were much like the images a
subject gets when seeing a similar card imperfectly
with normal vision in dim light. In one series he
had his subject make two tests on each card. First
she tried to determine the symbol on the card by
ESP and, incidentally, made drawings of all the
various images she got for it. Then for the second
test she used an apparatus by which the experi-
menter could increase the illumination thrown on
the letter until it came from total invisibility into
a clarity sufficient for its recognition. She made
drawings of the first dim images in this case too,
and so had a set of drawings from ESP and another
from dim vision. There is considerable similarity be-
tween the two types of images.
I do not think that Bender concludes that these
results give him anything like an understanding of
the basic process of extra-sensory perception. He
recognizes that he is dealing here only with a
secondary aspect: the result of the process as it ap-
pears in the subject's consciousness as a percep-
tual judgment or choice. The fundamental process
below the conscious level is still beyond reach and
fa, as he points out, not available to introspection.
In other words, the subject is entirely unconscious
THE WORK OF OTHER LABORATORIES 139
of the real process she is using, and hence can tell
nothing about it by looking within herself and
describing what seems to her to be happening. But
any advance into the uncharted field of extra-
sensory perception is important. Even to know, as
Bender's study shows, that there is strong simi-
larity between the way ESP impressions and the
first visual ones come to consciousness is a real ad-
vance in our knowledge.
Perhaps the most unusual and dramatic series
of observations on a single individual ever made
under academic scientific auspices was that recently
reported by Professor Ferdinand Neureiter of the
Medical School at Riga. His attention was called
to the case of a feeble-minded child who was said to
be able to read only when her teacher looked at
the words in the book along with her. Professor
Neureiter describes a number of tests made by him-
self and others, assuring themselves that the child
in some way, without the use of the recognized
senses, made contact with the minds of those about
her. This extra-sensory perception of mental states,
or telepathy, apparently occurred even when the
girl was separated from the sender by being sta-
tioned in a different room. Newspaper reports and
correspondence, however, indicate that this appar-
ently remarkable though unfortunate child is still
140 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
the center of a great deal of attention from many
inquirers, not all of them fully satisfied about the
adequacy of the conditions* Interesting and appar-
ently convincing though Neureiter's report is, the
case is too extraordinary and important for more
than a suspended judgment at present.
Let us turn now to work which has followed
on that done here at Duke and which has in some
measure been stimulated by it. The first case to
reach publication was that of Mr. G. N. M. Tyrrell
in England. Tyrrell is not an academic man, but
his acquaintance with this research obviously goes
back many years, since he made a report of some
similar experiments in 1922. His work is carried
out in his private laboratory and is reported in the
Proceedings of the English Society for Psychical
Research. The outstanding feature of the Tyrrell
work is the emphasis upon "motorizing" the re-
sponses of the subject: giving her a chance to re-
spond by movement rather than by thinking of
symbols. This is the otherextreme from the Bender
* II II.M ,
V
work, in which concentration was upon visual
images.
To permit the subject to respond by simple
movement, Tyrrell has progressed through several
steps to an elaborate machine driven electrically.
THE WORK OF OTHER LABORATORIES 141
The central part of the apparatus consists of a row
of five boxes with lightproof sides and lids. Inside
each box is a small electric bulb, but in only one
box at a time is the bulb lighted. The task of the
subject is to open the box containing the lighted
bulb, and the success or failure of her choice is
recorded automatically when she lifts a lid. Tyrrell
is trying to develop a completely automatic ma-
chine covering all points, including the choice of
the particular box in which the light is to be turned
on. Everything about the testing process is to be
mechanical except the response of the subject. Al-
though he has not yet succeeded in perfecting his
machine, we must remember that it is very diffi-
cult to design a mechanism as intricate as this one.
Perhaps the deepest concern one may rightly have
about this machine is that so far it does not leave a
record both of the choices made by the subject and
of the boxes actually lighted. Thus the cross-check
of actual records, which is such a great safeguard
against certain errors, is not yet possible with it.
Again, suspended judgment is probably in order.
At different stages in the development of the
machine Tyrrell*s subject has been obtaining scores
above the level of the chance average. His plan has
been, as was ours, to try first to get high scores be-
fore changing to more rigid testing conditions
first having the subject demonstrate extra-chance
scoring and then advancing the precautions. He
142 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
has been working almost entirely with one sub-
ject. Miss G. M. Johnson, with whom he began his
studies back in 1922, and she has in time success-
fully overcome the difficulty of each new advance.
Tyrrell has, however, some results under his most
advanced conditions: mechanical selection of the
box to be lighted for the subject's test. This, if ade-
quate, would tend to rule out any possibility of
the subject's simply falling in line with some pe-
culiar habit which the experimenter himself might
exhibit when he is doing the selecting of the box.
As a matter of fact, the best assurance of Tyr-
relFs having discovered a genuine case of extra-
sensory perception may be, after all, the few series
of runs he has had Miss Johnson make with ESP
cards like those used by our laboratory. In these
her work has met his criteria of significance, and
this fact, together with his own machine tests,
leaves one reasonably confident that his work has
a sound basis and a brilliant future. The continued
development of his machine may well solve many
problems of this field.
The most gratifying sequel to the experiments
at Duke has been the reaction among other Ameri-
can college groups. Within a year after the publica-
tion of the first scientific report on our experiments
THE WORK OF OTHER LABORATORIES 143
work was started in several institutions, and now,
some three years later, at least a score of places have,
to my knowledge, undertaken something by way
of tests of extra-sensory perception, using the card-
call; Tg technique. A dozen of these have rounded
out projects which merit publication and confirm
the basic principle of the Duke work: that sub-
jects can achieve significant extra-chance scores on
various card-calling techniques. So far as I know
only three have failed to confirm it, and those are
the three series conducted with the least regard for
the Duke procedure. They were not done under
the direction of anyone with experience in this diffi-
cult field. All research workers who have closely
co-operated with us thus far, and some who have
not consulted with us in any important way, have
achieved a measure of positive results, although a
few are as yet too indefinite for final decision*
Of the twelve confirmatory instances, a half
dozen have already been published. As a group they
appear to answer pretty definitely the objection
that proof of the existence of extra-sensory percep-
tion is confined to the Duke experiments.
The first American confirmation of any propor-
tion was, I think, that of Miss Margaret Pegram of
Guilford College, North Carolina, Mfes Pegram
used only herself for subject in the card-calling
tests. Perhaps it is just as well, since I am sure no
other human being would have put up with the
144 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
slavish treatment she dealt herself. In less than a
year's time she went through more tests than all
t>f us at Duke put together had given all our sub-
jects over a period of four years. She did approxi-
mately 185,000 trials, sometimes as many as 5,000
in one day.
Her scores were not very high. They averaged
between 5 and 6, varying from 5.3 to 5.6 hits per
25 trials. But with such a huge number of trials
even small margins are important. Miss Pegram's
work definitely showed something beyond chance.
Not only did she demonstrate this in the usual way,
but she reversed her method and called for low
scores tried to miss the symbols and found that
she could obtain better deviations by doing so than
when trying to make hits.
Miss Pegram's work was not witnessed, and she
did her own recording and checking. But she was
an assistant in the psychology department at Guil-
ford College, and what is perhaps more reassuring
to the reader, has since done scoring in the pres-
ence of witnesses at a higher rate and for series of
appreciable length. This confirmatory work was
carried on at Duke in our Parapsychology Labora-
tory. She made ongjong seriesofruns while she was
jttmoted to call
carHsplace3 jtt^DukeJLJmversity* The distance is
over 60 milesT The results gave approximately
the same deviation as those she secured when the
cards were before her.
THE WORK OF OTHER. LABORATORIES 145
5
At Tarkio College there was an earnest young
student of psychology, J. L. Woodruff, who be-
lieved in ESP and a skeptical instructor who did
not. Although he had heard of the Duke experi-
ments Dr. George had never been convinced by
them, but he was broad-minded enough to recog-
nize the importance of testing to find out the truth.
Woodruff was another example of a man who had
his interest in the possibility of extra-sensory per-
ception aroused by experiences in his own family.
He proposed to carry out a project in connection
with the course in experimental psychology which
he was taking under Dr. George. Out of that chal-
lenge grew a successful research project, which
lasted through the succeeding year and is still going
on at Tarkio College.
Woodruff quickly discovered a number of prom-
ising subjects and selected three for further ex-
perimentation. One was himself. Working with
the ESP cards, which in half die experiments were
behind screens and in the other half not, he com-
pared three types of technique.
One of these methods was an interesting develop-
ment of the matching technique. Ordinarily match-
ing tests are carried on by asking the subject to
distribute a pack of cards, all face down, opposite a
row of five ESP cards (one each of the five symbols)
lying face upward on the table in front of him.
146 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
He tries to lay each of tlie cards of the pack, still
face downward, opposite its corresponding key
card in the row of five* But Woodruff pushed this
matching technique a step further: he asked his
subjects to match the pack against a row of five
key cards also face down and in an order-unknown
to^
eitiier^investigator^or subject. The third method
Woodruff used was the old BT method in which
the top card is called and then removed.
The theory behind this kind of test is that the
open-matching technique and, especially, the BT
method involve more thinking about the symbols
and hence a more cognitive, or mental, mode of re-
sponse. Matching the cards against a key row which
is face downward (blind matching) appears to in-
volve a more motorized response. As we have just
seen, Tyrrell was working in the belief that a sub-
ject would score higher if he did not have to think
of symbols at all, but the results of "Woodruff's work
show that his subjects did better on the more con-
scious tests. On the whole, the work at Tarkio was
very successful, and since this first research Dr.
George has sponsored other projects of equal value.
Another skeptical psychologist states frankly
that he began to repeat our tests with the hope of
finding out what might be wrong. This man, Dr.
C. R. Carpenter, of Bard College, had the feeling
from his formal psychological training not that
all psychologists feel that way that a certain num-
ber of trials ought to be given the subject every day
BLIND-MATCHING TEST: THE 5 KEY CARDS ARE FACE
DOWN, IN UNKNOWN ORDER.
THE WORK OF OTHER ILABORATORIES 147
and a nicely rounded-out total required of each
subject. In other words, the set of tests ought to be
completely routinized. With some misgivings we
encouraged him to go ahead. It was worth trying,
since the worst that could happen was failure. And
there was a chance that one good subject might
appear among the large number tested. Perhaps
there would be one in forty, as we had found at
Duke when we ourselves routinized the tests. And
that is just about what did happen the first forty
or more that were tested produced one excellent
subject and a fair one. The excellent one must have
been almost of the caliber of Pearce. How much he
was handicapped by the mechanized routine, if in-
deed he was, no one can say.
At any rate, Carpenter and his assistants tested
this subject through long series, resulting in many
thousands of trials, and his scores held up consis-
tently through the various conditions under which
he was asked to work, including calling the cards
down through the deck, and screened BT; that is,
removing the card after calling while the pack is
behind a small screen that renders it invisible to
the subject. The subject fajfed finally when he was^
brought up against screened DT; having no contact
with the cards whatever and not having the card
removed after calling, the pack being behind the
screen all the time. However, Carpenter suggests
one possible explanation for failure on this test: the
pressure upon the subject of his college examina-
148 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
tions. Of course, there is no way of knowing what
the actual factor was. It may be that the subject lost
confidence, a circumstance which has so often ac-
counted for failures in our own tests* Or that he
had simply become satiated with ESP tests.
Later, from another smaller sorting of subjects,
Carpenter found another good one and another
fair one, making four out of something less than
seventy subjects tested.
In the Bard College work about half the tests
were made with cards in suits of five different colors
instead of the five ESP symbols, and in general the
results were the same, though slightly higher than
with symbols. Carpenter found, too, that the ggb-
jectsliked jgrorking withjJbe colors somewhat bet-
ten He^-as well as Dr/Harold R. Phalen, who as
mathematician joins him in publishing the findings
is unable to explain away ESP, as he had at first
hoped to do. It appears more likely that these men
may yet help to explain it.
One of the most interesting pieces of research
in the entire field comes not from a college,but from
a grade school in Sarasota, Florida. Miss Esther
Bond, teaching a group of retarded children, set
to work to see what they could do in tests for gen-
eral extra-sensory perception. She had cards num-
bering from 1 to 10; after shuffling the pack of 40,
THE WORK OF OTHER LABORATORIES 149
she chose from it at random a number upon which
to give her attention, asking approximately twenty
pupils present from day to day to put down the
number upon which she was concentrating. At
first she stood in front of the group, studiously
avoiding any kind of variation from test to test
during the ten trials given daily. During half the
series she stood at the rear of the room. She obtained
29 per cent above chance; that is, the average num-
ber of hits per day per pupil was 1.29 for ten trials
over the sixteen-day period in which the experiment
was conducted. The chance average would be about
1. There was some falling off when she shifted to
the rear of the room, but still not to the chance
level. The scores of some subjects, in fact, rose
when the change was made, and a study of the
seating chart of the room made it clear that this was
not because of the investigator's proximity.
There appeared to be some surprising internal
relations in her results that make the study more
interesting than it might appear at first glance. One
was the fact that the subjects tended to avoid a
number when it was the same number as that of
the trial. For instance, if number 5 was the card
at which the experimenter was looking during the
fifth trial, the subject would not get it right even
as often as chance would allow. There was appar-
ently some aversion here, some avoidance^response.
Also, after a pupil had been out of school he did not
do well when lie first came back, and Monday
150 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
proved to be the poorest day of the week. Certain
pupils, too, stood out above the rest throughout the
tests. Later work by the same experimenter, as well
as other studies with the young, does not justify
the inference that there might have been some rela-
tion between the results and the fact that the chil-
dren were retarded.
Dr. Lucien Warner, psychologist and author of
books on comparative psychology, began his ex-
ploration in ESP, again under the stimulation, in
part at least, of scientific interest in unexplainable
experiences among members of his family. Warner
was curious to see whether telepathy played a part
it was not intended to play in the psychology lab-
oratory; that it might be a factor all unrecognized
in certain experiments in the quantitative measure-
ment of sensation. He had the subject lift and judge
weights, discriminating between weights that were
nearly alike. He made the difference in weight so
small that the subject would at a certain stage make
one-fourth as many mistakes as successes. At that
point Warner introduced the possibility bf telep-
athy to discover whether it altered tfee score favor-
ably. He explained to the subject the possibility of
telepathy and told him that he, as experimenter,
would know which weight was the heavier, thus
allowing for the transfer of thought.
By use of a screen and carefully controlled tech-
nique, Warner was able, he felt, to avoid giving,
indirectly or involuntarily, any sensory cues. There-
THE WORK. OF OTHER LABORATORIES 151
fore, significant scores should either indicate te-
lepathy or else show that something was wrong with
the conditions, which he and his assistant, Mrs. Mil-
dred Raible, could not discover. The majority of the
subjects did better with telepathy than without it,
and the hits for all combined were almost signifi-
cant. Two subjects out of the group of seventeen
did markedly better with the telepathic condition,
sufficiently so to satisfy the statistical requirements
for significance. One or two others were quite
promising. Such results led Warner to issue a warn-
ing to psychologists to the effect that the possibility
of telepathy in other psychologic experiments
where it is not wanted will have to be taken seri-
ously. There are, of course, many experiments in
which the experimenter knows beforehand the cor-
rect thing for the subject to do. Even if he does not,
and there is any objective basis which the subject
could use through clairvoyant perception, it would
be extremely difficult to rule out this possibility.
Warner contends that, difficult as it may be to
do so in many cases, ESP must be taken into account
and not simply ignored. For the comfort of psy-
chologists wfeo may be worried, I would say that it
is one thing to establish the possibility of ESP as a
supplementary factor when consciously tried by the
subject and experimenter and another to show that
it actually does so operate when it is not sought as
an aid. It is a further problem, then, to find out
whether the subject unconsciously uses telepathy
152 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
when he is not aware of the possibility of using it.
The mere fact that in Warner's control series the
subject could have used clairvoyance, but presum-
ably did not do so, is a point against the actual
danger of intrusion of extra-sensory perception as
an uncontrolled factor*
Dr. J. G. Pratt was one of our most valuable ESP
investigators at Duke, and when Dr. Gardner
Murphy, of Columbia, generously volunteered his
co-operation in extending the scope of the Duke
experiments, Pratt was invited to work with him
at Columbia in the attempt to discover good ESP
subjects there and continue the research. For a long
time Pratt's search seemed destined to be unsuc-
cessful. Now and then a promising subject would
appear, but would either quickly lose the ability
first demonstrated or would not be available for
further tests. Pratt is an indefatigable worker and
before the year was over he had tested about a hun-
dred and twenty-five people. It was then that he
found Mrs. M, who seemed to suit his purpose and
would hold up through long series of tests.
The work with Mrs. M was done under a con-
dition that was called STM, which Pratt is Aefirst,
I. believe, tojxavejgsedT STM meansjcreene^ joudb
matehing. The subject touches with a pointer one
of the five key cards placed underneath an upright
SCREENED TOUCH MATCHING. J. S. WOODRUFF (LEFT)
AND C. E. STUART, MEMBERS OF THE STAFF OF THE
DUKE PARAPSYCHOLOGY LABORATORY, DEMONSTRATING
THE TEST.
THE WORK OF OTHER LABORATORIES 153
screen which comes down to within three inches
of the table at which he and the investigator are
sitting. On the other side of the screen the experi-
menter can see the pointer touching the card and
from a pack of cards held in his hand he lays the
top card opposite the key card indicated by the
pointer. Thus the subject can go on pointing as
fast as the experimenter lays down the cards or
as slowly as he desires. In later experiments and in
all present work the table area behind the three-
inch aperture in the screen is completely closed off
from the subject's view by a backboard slightly
higher than the opening and a few inches back from
the screen, on the experimenter's side. One of the
interesting points which Pratt discovered is that this
subject not only could read, but read aloud, while
continuing the touch matching successfully.
Out of a great mass of work which Pratt con-
ducted with Mrs. M he reports at present only
that which he feels confident could not be in any
remote way explainable by anything but the hy-
pothesis of extra-sensory perception. In this experi-
mentation the conditions were very rigid. There
were five shallow pasteboard boxes on the table in
front of the subject, just under the screen arranged
for the key cards. In each of these was one of the
five symbols on a card, face down, covered by a
blank card. These cards had been placed in the
boxes while they were held by Pratt on his knees
below the level of the table. He himself did not
154 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
know the arrangement of the symbols in the boxes.
Packs of cards were then shuffled by him behind
the screen and one by one placed opposite these
key-card boxes as the subject indicated with the
pointer her choice for each card. The work was done
rapidly, at an average rate of about 2.5 cards per
second. The subject might or might not be reading
a book or she might be carrying on a lively conver-
sation.
Although the results in this technique were by
no means among the highest in scoring rate that
Pratt obtained from Mrs. M, the experiment was
selected merely because of its scientific quality; it
still meets the requirements for significant indica-
tion of the operation of something beyond chance.
The average was only 5.6 hits per 25, but the num-
ber of trials in this experiment was 7,800,
Before this manuscript finally left my hands,
four other contributions were added to support the
case for ESP, a fifth turned out to be a failure, and
several other colleges had begun research. I know
of several graduate theses on the subject. If my im-
pression is correct, there will be a rapid growth of
collegiate interest in the subject, and this if well
directed may lead to a hastening of our final under-
standing of the nature of the process. It is par-
ticularly suitable for student research since the
techniques are not difficult and the problems are
many and interesting.
THE WORK OF OTHER LABORATORIES 155
8
The responsibility, then, for maintaining the
case for ESP no longer rests exclusively with Duke.
By this time it is a greatly divided one, and I, for
one, am immensely relieved. If there is a snag some-
where in the research, at least it has now been over-
looked by a good number of qualified observers*
In reviewing only the work done in schools and
colleges by academic investigators I have touched
on scarcely half of the total amount that has been
done. Other teachers besides psychologists have been
interested in this work and have busied themselves
to see what they could find by the use of the same
methods. Some of their work has, indeed, been
among the best in every respect. If it has not been
pushed forward in publication, it is only because
on an already debatable subject hostile criticism will
naturally seize on whatever weakness it may find;
and such work, though it may not possess weakness,
may appear to have it. The fact that a Mr. Smith
carried out a series of investigations in a private
home does not sound so impressive, unfortunately,
as to say that Professor Jones did the same thing in
a college laboratory. As a matter of fact, Mr. Smith
may be just as good an investigator, or even a better
one. He may be more careful, on the whole. Such
a comparison is hard to weigh and hard to state.
But after all, academic assurances, degrees, and posi-
156 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
tions do carry weight; and in breaking news of this
kind to a doubting world such weight has to be re-
garded, at least in the initial stages of the research.
Some good work has been done by nonpsycho-
logical teachers in colleges, even though it cannot
be described by the magic words "carried out in
the Psychology Laboratory at College."
Much more has been done in private homes with
a set of conditions arranged through our instruc-
tion^ but again lacking the imprimatur of the lab-
oratory. When the smoke of the first scrimmage
with the critics dies down sufficiently to permit its
proper consideration, much of this work wiU be
highly regarded. Indeed, a lot of it has been done
by professional men: physicians, engineers, teach-
ers, or first-rate businessmen. This research by lay-
men has been done in especially close co-operation
with our laboratory, and in most instances a vali-
dation procedure has been carried out* For instance,
we have had investigators from this laboratory go
out to witness experiments, or better, to make
actual investigations with the same subjects. In
some cases subjects have been brought to the lab-
oratory for the validation. And other methods have
been used.
Some of the best scouts for good subjects have
been among these unacademic investigators. A
highly sociable, enthusiastic young businessman or
salesman or a physician practiced in the art of get-
ting co-operation from people is, on the whole,
THE WORK OF OTHER LABORATORIES 157
more likely to succeed in finding subjects than is a
more formal, and perhaps a little too intellectual,
academic person. Certainly the unacademic group
has had proportionately greater success than the
academic in terms of percentage of good subjects
discovered and validated by later investigation.
The future of ESP research in America, then,
seems assured. At least forty independent investi-
gators are at work in some way or another and
with some degree of contact with our own labora-
tory. As the center of such a network it is highly
important, I believe, that the Duke Parapsychol-
ogy Laboratory not only continue its own research
program, but help to keep a certain amount of
standardization of procedure within this large
group of outside workers. At the same time we
ourselves need to advance further into the several
divergent lines already opened up by this research.
Along with the increasing opportunity of our work
there is, therefore, a feeling among us of greatly in-
creased responsibility.
CHAPTER X
The Investigation of Pure Telepathy
SO FAR IN THIS BOOK THERE HAS BEEN LITTLE
mention of telepathy, and though in the popular
mind and in the newspaper stories our experiments
in extra-sensory perception are usually referred to
as experiments in telepathy, this is not strictly true-
A large majority of our tests have had nothing to
do with telepathy as such. Telepathy is the appre-
hension by one mind ofjwhat is going on in anothef,
or the extra-sensory perception of mental states,
thoughts, or whatever you wish to call them. What
we have been considering in this book has been prin-
cipally the extra-sensory perception of objects,
mainly cards. This we have been calling "clairroy-
anc' and would prefer to call "telesthesia."
Most people seem to find it much easier to accept
the idea of telepathy than that of clairvoyance.
This may be because of the analogy often drawn
between radio transmission and the brain-wave
theory; that is, the idea that the brain of one J>erson
broadcasts and that of another receives, i& telep-
adb^Cj^hile this is a good analogy upon which to
make easy an acceptance of telepathy, it is prob-
ably a false one, as will appear later on. Many
158
THE INVESTIGATION OF PURE TELEPATHY 159
people have told me that, if necessary, they could
accept telepathy as plausible enough, but clairvoy-
ance seemed to them impossible. Telepathy and
clairyoyanjcje argjtwo experimentally separate
of extrarsensj^jjgerpep.tioii, and before the end of
this chapter is reached it ought to be clear that one
is just as easy to believe (or disbelieve) as the other.
Most of the earlier experiments in extra-sensory
perception were called experiments in telepathy,
but as a matter of fact we do not know whether
they were actually that or not. This, because in all
those experiments the agent, or sender, had before
him an object, a drawing, a number, or a playing
card. While he concentrated his attention on this
object, the percipient tried to guess or to "see"
what he Was concentrating on, and it is a
juestion
whether success wasjdiiejtojg^rc^tign^pf the^bjject
:>r of the thought process of the sender. On the
issumption that it was the thought process of the
lender, such results in the past were called evidence
for telepathy, and the chance that it could equally
well have been the object itself was disregarded. The
arly experimenters did not realize how much of
m assumption they were making, for they were
lot alive to the possibility of clairvoyance in such
;ases.
As we understand the matter now, such undif-
160 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
ferentiated tests as these which we BOW call gen-
ejf
al ESP tests are useful mainly for exploratory
purposes. Perhaps a subject may be able to score
better if he is exposed to both the clairvoyant and
the telepathic influence at the same time. But so
far we have not been able to demonstrate clearly
whether or not it makes any fundamental differ-
ence when only one process is used, or both. In our
work w&had used this general ESP condition in the
initial tests made by Dr. Lundholm and myself.
But in a short time I realized the necessity for a clear
separation of the two supposed capacities telep-
athy and clairvoyance.
Before I had experimented long with Linzmayer
I found that he did not rely on the thought proc-
esses of the sender, and when he was asked whether
he desired the co-operation of an agent he said that
he did not. Similarly, in the early experiments with
Pearce, if he knew that the experimenter was look-
ing at the cards the results actually fell almost to
chance. This must have been merely because the
idea was a distraction at first or because he imagined
it would be a hindrance. We find in many cases that
a subject's preformed beliefs offer real barriers to
his success.
In Pearce's case when we returned later to a re-
newed trial of general ESP after he had heard
some discussion as to the possible advantage of a
rnmbination of telepathy and clairvoyance he
THE INVESTIGATION OF PURE TELEPATHY 161
succeeded in scoring higher than he ever had with
clairvoyance alone. In two instances he scored 17
out of 25 and once made 1 J hits almost in succes-
sion. At the same time on alternating runs in which
I did not look at the cards he scored only about 7.
I thought that this might possibly be due to his
having in the meantime come to think there might
be some help in the telepathic factor.
The proper step to take next seemed to be to
work with the cards behind a screen and in some
instances for the experimenter to look at the card
and in others not to do so, without letting the sub-
ject know the reason. He would merely be told
that in some runs the experimenter would look at
the cards and in some he would not. But even under
these circumstances the results were better under
general ESP. Without jbe^^ssibiliQL^f telepathy
thg average way ft , ^ ; 771tb telepathy the average was
9^.Later work with another subject, however, has
led to the speculation that perhaps even behind the
screen the subject may have been aware by extra-
sensory perception of which cards were being
looked at and may have been stimulated a little
more during the periods in which the cards were
being jseen.
Other experimenters have not found
the general ESP condition better than the BT (be-
fore touching) technique in which the card is called
investigator removes it from the top of
the pack. This technique is a test for clairvoyance
162 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
only; therefore, in spite of the results with Pearce,
SuTvalue of a telepathic factor added to clairvoy-
ance is still undetermined.
By the time our experiments had reached this
point it was clearly essential to test for purejtska-
athy, and Pearce was the logicalman on whom to
try it. The technique itself was difficult to develop.
It seemed advisable to continue using the same sym-
bols so that comparison could be made between
telepathy and clairvoyance. But it was not possible
to choose the symbols from anything objective or
else we might have a basis for an alternate interpre-
tation possible clairvoyance. Even a coding system
could be open to question on this point. It was de-
cided to begin with the following scheme: The
sgnder, or agent, selected in his mind a given order
for the symbols in his first fave trials let us say
rectangle, star, rectangle, waves, waves. Keeping
this symbol order dimly in mind, he would concen-
tratg^his attentionjon the first
on^aaidjignal for
fine receiver, or
percimgnt.
to make a call. After
tGe receiver had made Hs call and it had been
recorded, then and only then would the sender make
the record of his first symbol. In this way there
would be no objective record until after the re-
cgjjScWall wasrecordgd. Ckirvoyance from the
record would not Impossible unless we suppose It
L TEST FOR PURE TELEPATHY. MR. ZIRKLE WAS SEATED TWO ROOMS AWAY
JROM THE SENDER, MISS OWNBEY, WITH HIS BACK TOWARD HER. THE
TELEGRAPH KEY UNDER MISS OWNBEY's RIGHT HAND WAS. USED TO GIVE
'HE READY SIGNAL. UNDER THESE CONDITIONS MR. ZIRKLE GOT 2} HITS
)UT OF 25, 85 OUT OF 100, AND AN AVERAGE FOR THE SERIES OF 1 6
OUT OF
THE INVESTIGATION OF PURE TELEPATHY 163
capable of going ahead into the future. Therefore,
after the first five symbols were called, the next
five would be chosen with some systematic varia-
tion, which system in itself would be varied so as
to offset completely any guessing of the order.
At first Pearce did poorly. His scores averaged
little above 6. But as he went on he improved until
his average rose almost to 8 per 25. As a matter of
fact his perceptivity jyaried with different senders.
With two young ladies his average rose to 8.7, which
was almost equal to his general average for the
clairvoyant card work.
Most of our early telepathy tests were made with
sendeiLand receiver seated at the same table. The
receiver would not look at the sender, but there
was a continual possibility of auditory cues such
as clearing the throat, scraping chairs, or fidgeting
about in general. After a time, however, a noisy
electric fan was used as a block to possible auditory
cues, although it is extremely doubtful if any such
cues^were operative or whether a scraping chair
could indicate a star rather than a circle, and so[
on. It is practically certain that no such cues were
being utilized, since most of the subjects did equally
well, if not better, later when they were separated
from the sender by walls and distance.
MiSBailey in particular did better when she was
at a distance from the sender. She showed ability
in telepathy from the start, but increased her scor-
ing average when she was separated from the sender
164 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
in an adjoining room and did still better when lo-
cated two rooms away. In most cases when our sub-
jects were in separate rooms the connecting doors
were left at least partly open. Distance and separar
tion certainly had a favorablerather than an un-
favorable^eflfect on most of the scores. Whatever
the means of communication between the two
minds engaged in the tests, nothing in the way of
unconscious sensory cues could explain that increas-
ing success which attended separation.
In the majority of trials under these conditions
the electric fan was going and in some an experi-
menter was in the middle room between sender
and receiver where he could to best advantage catch
any sounds or signals.
The greatest amount of really amazing work in
telepathy was performed by Zirkle, and it was done
during the period when Miss Ownbey was both
sender and experimenter. At first the work was
done with both subject and experimenter in the
same room, but later with the receiver one and then
two rooms away from the sender, with open doors
between. Throughout the duration of the test the
electric fan was going and Zirkle sat with his back
to the experimenter. His eyes were closed and his
mind was adjusted to the greatest degree of ab-
straction of which he was capable in the normal
waking state. The ready signal, or notice that die
senderwas concenttaqng on
a^ew car4tjwas giv^
by meansTof a telegraphic sounder. The receiver
THE INVESTIGATION OF PURE TELEPATHY
called his choice aloud; the experimenter recorded
it, and if correct, checked it. We recognized that
this procedure placed a great deal of responsibility
otTthe observer, and it thSlrorK^f the Zirkles^stood
alone, unsupported by any from other subjects and
other experimenters, it might make the precautions
appear inadequate. There was, however, a great deal
of independent support* These experiments were
devoted primarily to the understanding of relations
and conditions of extra-sensory perception in sub-
jects who had already demonstrated its possession,
rpjiaye suppligd another observgr was beyond our
means at the time. ;
"
/4
During the course of his work on pure telepathy
Zirkle gave us our finest demonstration of the effect
Df sodium amytal on ESP. At the same time we
were able to study the effect of caffeine, which is
the active stimulant principle in coffee and tea. The
;wo drugs were given to Zirkle without his know-
ing which one he was taking; he knew, of course,
:hat the amytal was expected to depress his scor-
ng, because he knew about its effect on previous
jubjects, and he knew, too, that caffeine might raise
iie scoring capacity of a subject depressed by fa-
igue. As a psychology student he understood that
n their effect on mental processes these two drugs
vork against each other to a great extent: if amytal
nafces a person sleepy, caffeine makes him wide
166 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
awake. Amytal tends to dissociate a subject; caffeine
helps to reintegrate him or pull him together men-
tally.
Because Zirkle knew all these facts we had to
adopt the precaution of not letting him know
which drug he was taking, and the capsules in which
they were put up looked alike. However, the gen-
eral effects of each drug were so pronounced that
he had small trouble in recognizing which he had
taken by the way he began to feel shortly after the
dose. Nor would any observer have been uncertain
as to when Zirkle had had the sleep-producing drug
and when the stimulant.
We had worked with caffeine before in the case
of Pearce. Its use had considerably
ages attjmgs, ffihqp^Jhejwas scoring TU
*BuFlF1aeyerraised_^^
nonmHeyel. This suggested that its principal effect
was to offset the results of fatigue. Ordinarily
Pearce's below-normal runs had come on days when
he had been up late the night before. From our ob-
servations on Pearce we thought it probable that if
amytal brought down the level of Zirkle's scores on
this occasion, caffeine might bring him back to
his normal level.
Miss Ownbey was the sender and experimenter
in this particular series, and it was the first time
that amytal and caffeine had been used in work on
pure telepathy. Zirkle was stationed in one room
Ownbey in another. As was customary.
INVESTIGATION OF PURE TELEPATHY 167
;d a telegraph key to signal when she was
Zirkle had been averaging 13.6 hits in each
*
25 trials before he took the first amytal
dosage. After waiting an hour for it to take eifect,
the tests were resumed. Zirkle's average had fallen
to 7.8, the first series being composed of 300 trials.
Two hours after taking the first capsule he would
drop asleep between tests if he was not interfered
with. He was seeing double and felt dizzy. After
the third hour, when he took a third test of 300
runs, he felt worse than ever and his average was
down to only 6.2 hits in each 25 calls.
We felt that this was the time to try the effect
of caffeine. Everyone who has used a cup of strong
coffee to wake himself up (or sober himself) knows
about what the second capsule did to Zirkle. An
hour after he had taken it his scores were up to an
average of 9.5 in 25 calls. Unfortunately he could
not stay for a second series of 300 an hour after the
first postcaffeine runs, but he reported later* that
he went on being more and more wide awake.
Some time after Miss Ownbey and Zirkle were
married we conducted another group of telepathy
tests with them. This time a third person acted as
recorder, taking down Zirkle's calls in a separate
room and keeping an independent record. Although
the results were not equal to the high level of 14
hits or thereabouts which Zirkle had been able to
score before his marriage, he did average 9 hits in
each 25 calls far above the chance figure.
168 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
5
In describing these tests for telepathy and clair-
voyance it is easy to overlook their implications, and
the excitement that was an inevitable part of them.
This narrative will carry more conviction if it is
factual and restrained, and yet there were moments
in our researches when it was impossible not to be
deeply stirred by the almost incredible nature of
what was happening. One such moment occurred
during a special test for telepathy, with Miss Own-
bey as the sender and Miss Turner as the receiver*
What made
between die two subjects. Miss Turner was two
hundred and fifty miles away from Miss Ownbey
and the Duke laboratory. The experiment was
arranged for a daily run of 25 calls, with an inter-
val of five minutes after each call, so that each
daily test occupied two^Sours. "TKe two subjects
used synchronized watches based on Western Union
time. Miss Ownbey turned in to me the records of
the order in which she had sent out the symbols,
mentally, and these I retained to check against Miss
Turner's calls, which were to be mailed to me*
Apparently the instructions to Miss Turner went
astray, for the records of her first three days* calk
were mailed to Miss Ownbey, who brought them
straight from the post office to me. The letter con-
taining them was entirely in Miss Turner's hand-
writing, and subsequent investigation convinced
THE INVESTIGATION OF PURE TELEPATHY 169
me that it had not been tampered with. Placing
Miss Ownbey's records of the symbols she had at-
tempted to send out to Miss Turner against the
calls which Miss Turner had listed in her letter,
scores of 19 hits for the first day and 16 each for
the next two days were revealed. A three-day aver-
age of above 17 correct impressions of the images
in Miss Ownbey's mind out of a possible 25.
To many people there must appear something
fantastic in such results. They will think of the
hills, woods, towns, fields, roads, rivers, even of
the very curve of the earth itself separating the
two women who conducted this experiment. And
yet two times out of three one of them knew what
was the shape of an image held in the thought of
the other. Whatever power it was that they pos-
sessed, it plainly was totally unaffected by distance,
for digse^three scores were among the highest ever
attained in our work_oa^tglgpa^ty. Space as
ordinarily conceived in our everyday thinking pre-
sented no obstacle, then, to telepathic communica-
tion of symbols.
It is possible that we made a mistake after re-
ceiving those first three phenomenal scores from
Miss Turner. Because the trials at five-minute in-
tervals took so long, we shortened the time between
calls. Also, possibly unwisely, we let Miss Turner
know how high her scores had run. For succeed-
ing days she was able to make hits of only 7, 7, 8, 6,
and 2 successivelv. Still, for the entire series her
170 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
average was 10.1 for each 25 calls, or more than
twice as much as chance would ordinarily produce.
Against the evidence of this particular series of
successful runs must be set the fact that when we
tried a further number of runs nothing encourag-
ing happened. And Zirkle whose scores, as stated
above, actually improved with increases in dis-
tance up to 30 feet when attempting a series of
telepathic tests with Miss Ownbey at a distance
of 165 miles was able to score no better than a
chance average. Certainly a great deal of work
remains to be done in this field*
In our experiments as a whole, however, we have
generally neglected telepathy. This has been largely
for the reason that it is difficult to control so as to
leave no possible alternative explanation. In the first
place, one has two subjects to keep track of, the
sender and tfie receiver^ Second, there is a possibility
that two people may have or may acquire similar
order habits: may tend to start off a run with thd
same symbol and to follow in some particular rou-
tine order. But we think we have a way of avoiding
that, and actual checkup shows that we do* Miss
Ownbey's records prove that she does avoid routine
patterns. Also, a cross-check between her records
and those of Miss Turner, checking together records
that were not intended to go together, gives a close
THE INVESTIGATION OF PURE TELEPATHY 171
approximation to 5, as expected by chance. This
shows that the two werejiot following simply in
the same habitual order. Uur present
in using this technique depend upon employing a
pack of cards with a memorized and unrecorded
code. The pack of cards will have on it only a set
of numbers from 1 to 5 to represent symbols, with
only the sender knowing which symbols they stand
for in his mind.
-
Therefore, while I consider our results in telepa-
thy perfectly good, standing as they do against the
background of the more firmly founded card work,
yet I am sure that we have been wise in concentrat-
ing major attention on the case for ESP of the
clairvoyant, or objective, type. If the work is cor-
rect, we have for the first time in the history of
the subject experimentally separated telepathy and
Further, we have shown that there
is a process of telepathy and that it works under
conditions In which f^r* nr>
nhfor.^ record
(unless thought process is itself objective) and that
rlfligjgvpnrflJn pmniMn unVTinnfr tk^ interoperatio^
of telepathy.
After all the labor of experimental separation, it
would appear now that these two phenomena, te-
lepathy and clairvoyance, which we have shown to
be different in theiy experimental demonstration,
tf tlf>t
expressions of the same fundamental process* All
the major subjects whom we have tried in the one
172 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
set of tests have been able also to succeed in the
other. Those who are telepathic are also clairvoyant,
and vice versa.
This is more than coincidence. Suppose our esti-
mate of only one person in five having ESP ability
should be a fair one; to find eight good clairvoyant
subjects thus selected and eight good telepathic sub-
jects to be the same individuals would be most im-
probable by chance alone. But when we add to this
the fact that these subjects are tested for the two
capacities during the same general period when we
get closely comparable scores on both telepathy and
clairvoyance we find that the subject does nearly
as well in the one as in the other. Five out of our
eight major subjects scored within one point of the
same average in both telepathy and clairvoyance. In
some instances, where fluctuations from day to day
were on record, the fluctuations would take in gen-
eral the same trend in both telepathy and clairvoy-
ance. Conditions which affected the one affected
the other in every instance in which we have such
records. Sodium amytal lowered clairvoyance and
lowered telepathy. The effect of caffeine was the
same on both. Mild respiratory illnesses such as
colds and influenza operated similarly. Distance
tests had the same effect on both. Not a single dif-
ferentiating fact is available. The only subject
tested thoroughly in whom we found any marked
difference between the two capacities was Mrs* Gar-
THE INVESTIGATION OF PURE TELEPATHY 17>
rett, and since her case is a very special one it de-
serves separate treatment in a later chapter.
There seems to be, then, reason to believe that
extra-sensory perception is a general process of
which telepathy and clairvoyance are special forms,
that the differentiating characteristic is simply that
different orders of things are perceived: in the case
of telepathy, a thought; in the case of clairvoyance,
a symbol on a card. This may be regarded as at least
a good working hypothesis.
The history of physics now reveals to us the im-
portance which lay in the first linkages of what
were earlier regarded as independent phenomena:
the linkage of sound with motion, of heat with
work, of electricity with light, and so forth. Has
parapsychology made its first experimentally
demonstrated linkage? Perhaps it is too soon to be
sure; the phenomena of this field are far more com-
plex, and certainly far more difficult to relate to
each other, than are those of the physical realm.
CHAPTER XI
The General Mental Setting
THE PRECEDING CHAPTER SUGGESTED THAT SOME-
how or other clairvoyance and telepathy fit to-
gether. The next step is to find where they belong in
the psychological scheme of things. "What is the
relation of extra-sensory perception to the rest of
the mind?
Most of the work in ESP investigation has been
of a fact-finding nature. Many more years of fac-
tual research will be needed before we have enough
data to form complete hypotheses. The powers or
energies of the mind are enormously complex, and
even its most "normal** manifestations are incom-
pletely understood by modern psychologists* Yet
with all these reservations it is possible to say that
a beginning has been made in bringing order and
relationship into the study of ESP. The discovery
of a close connection between telepathy and clair-
voyance represents one step in that direction.
In addition to forming an outline for further
study in a new field and attempting to find rela-
tionships between its facts, it is a most important
advance to be able to relate the new subject to the
existing body of knowledge. In the case of ESP
174
THE GENERAL MENTAL SETTING 175
an important connection between it and established
scientific knowledge is at once apparent. For the
extra-sensory modes of perception are not com-
pletely isolated, discordant mental activities. They
appear to be part of the normal make-up of the
human mind, even though they are sharply differen-
tiated from the type of perception which we call
sensory. In other words, they are in many respects
related to better known and more fully studied as-
pects of psychology.
In trying to fit the discoveries that have been
made about the process of extra-sensory perception
into the general scientific picture of the mind, one
disclaimer should, in fairness, be entered at this
point. Our task in doing so would be much less diffi-
cult if academic psychology, on its part, were a
further developed science than it is. If more were
known about the common processes of the mind,
such as thinking, willing, feeling, remembering,
and the like, we might be able more successfully to
relate the ESP process to them. Having entered the
field of psychology with a training and background
in the older branches of study, including chem-
istry, physiology, and botany, I cannot fail to be
appalled at the predominance of insecure method
and of unverified speculation and assumption in
psychology today. For many besides myself the ten-
176 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
dency of the work in modern psychology to coagu-
late into a multitude of small schools, each created
and stimulated by strong leadership, must be a
depressing matter.
In justice to my fellow psychologists (whom I
have perhaps adopted with greater equanimity than
they can muster in adopting me) it needs to be said
that they have problems to solve and conditions to
contend with which are incomparably more com-
plicated and perplexing than those of the biological
and physical sciences. I maintain emphatically that
the men and women who are working in psychology
today are as brilliant and competent a corps as any
of the other sciences can boast. But the science of
psychology (if it may be so described) suffers from
the peculiar difficulties of its problems and the re-
luctance of those who are exploring them to aban-
don either the old guardrails of philosophy or the
alluring analogies of other and more advanced
sciences.
Whatever may be the reason, our psychology,
our knowledge of the human mind, has not yet
reached the point where we can make precise state-
ments of general principles in the field. How, then,
can we determine where and how the findings of
the research in ESP are to be placed in the general
system of the mind? I believe we can take only
tentative steps in this direction, and if the relations
are somewhat loosely connected and unspecific, psy-
chology as a whole must share the blame*
THE GENERAL MENTAL SETTING 177
3
To begin with, there are certain positive rela-
tions and certain negative ones that may be pointed
out between extra-sensory perception and other
processes of the mind. Turning first to some of the
positive ones, I would point to the fact that ESP is
clearly a part of the general activity of the mental
system. That is, there is every evidence that ESP
functions jointly with the other processes of the
mind and is not separate and independent.
If a subject calls a pack of cards, for example,
a great many mental processes besides ESP help
him to identify the pack, to understand what the
general purpose of the experiment is, and so on.
Then, memory retains the five symbols and judg-
ment distinguishes them; imagination, too, may be
involved in keeping the five symbols clearly "be-
fore the mind" when the subject calls one of the
symbols, or there may be a motor response when the
subject places a card opposite one of the key cards*
as in the technique of matching described in a
previous chapter. Apid^so^ESP. whatever it jnay be,
ig/tLany rafodjaagLof..the general compleaLprocess-
svstem that we call t
It might be added further that this process or
phenomenon of ESP is clearly voluntary, or ca-
pable of being directe3; like other mental processes,
even though we have difficulty in bringing it com-
178 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
pletely under control. One illustration of this power
3f direction is that a subject calls the order of the
cards in the particular pack with which he happens
to be working, and not the order of some other
pack in the laboratory or elsewhere. He calls it, too,
at a certain time, at a certain rate, and in a certain
way. He may begin at the bottom or the top, or
stop halfway through if he wishes. Hardly anything
could more plainly identify the extra-sensory per-
ceptive capacity with the total organization of the
mind, as an integral part of its natural order, than
this relatively complete control exercised by the
subject himself. He can even call so as to miss the
symbol on a particular card, or he may make two
calls, one aiming to hit and the other aiming to miss.
If he has the ability to call a high score he can re-
verse the direction on the next run and obtain a
correspondingly low score.
ESP requires the attention of the subject. It is
necessary for him to concentrate on the task. Along
with this concentration of attention must go also
freedomjFrom distraction. BotETare aspects of the
same process and, although psychologists disagree
greatly as to what attention is or whether there is
any specific mental process under that heading,
everyone knows pretty well what it means.
We have noted the effect of lack of concentration
when we described the work of various subjects.
Strange observers brought in to scrutinize the sub-
ject proved to be distracting. With Pearce this in-
THE GENERAL MENTAL SETTING 179
variably brought his scores down to an average of
chance until he became accustomed to their pres-
ence and was able again to concentrate on the
tests. It may also be remembered that new tech-
niques distracted him,, disturbing the state of deep
absorption into which he naturally lapsed when en-
gaged in calling the cards. Another subject once
warned me that he was afraid he could not do very
well so long as a certain young lady was in town. She
attracted him greatly and distracted him from any-
thing else. And as a matter of fact his scoring did
fall considerably lower during the period of her
stay. Once when Cooper received a disturbing tele-
phone call in the midst of a series his score on re-
turning from the telephone was a 3. That was
unusually low for him.
Some subjects, like Mrs. M in the Columbia ex-
periments, can divide their attention much as a
person does in playing the piano and singing at the
same time or in doing needlework while listening to
a lecture or to music. In such cases there is no real
interference with attention, but rather distribution
or division of it. It therefore appeargjthat some
subjects can do ESP best under
oonditionspf
divided attention. Also, as we have already men-
tioned, attention is easier at the beginning and end
of a run, just as it is in the memorizing of a column
of figures.
One of the most striking similarities between
extra-sensory perception and other difficult men-
180 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
tal processes is the need in the case of both for con-
fidence. Few people can perform a difficult feat of
physical skill without confidence* The least doubt
crossing the mind of aliigh jumper or of a trapeze
performer may be fatal to his success. This is equally
if not more markedly true with delicate mental
skills and creative work. Performance, especially in
the arts, is dependent upon confidence. Fine dis-
criminative judgment, in the laboratory and out of
it, is largely dependent upon confidence. In ESP
work judgment, of course, functions on an extra-
sensory instead of a sensory basis.
That confidence is essential to ESP is very ap-
parent in the failures that come when a new and
apparently difficult condition is imposed upon a
subject, as when Pearce was first tested for telep-
athy. At first the subject fails, but later, with
encouragement and growing confidence, he suc-
ceeds. ZirHe began by failing flatly in clairvoyance,
although he had been getting high results in telepa-
thy. He had no confidence in his ability to score
clairvoyantly. Cooper failed just as completely on
distance work at first, though much later, with a
sender in whom he had the greatest confidence, he
did very well It is not possible to say, of course, that
lack of confidence was the only factor in all these
cases. A conclusion here should be quite tentative,
but the effect of encouragement from a little suc-
cess is to bring greater success; on the other hand,
THE GENERAL MENTAL SETTING 181
the depressing effect of failure is one of the most
marked general impressions which one gets from
watching subjects work from day to day.
Sometimes a subject will score well even though
beginning with strong doubt of the whole research.
Miss Ownbey was such a subject. But presumably
a person who can "play the game," or enter into the
test wholeheartedly, may for the moment lay aside
her doubts and escape her limitations. Few people,
however, can do this freely, and I feel that con-
fidence is important. My own view is that Miss
Ownbey was nearer to believing in ESP than she
realized. This opinion is based partly on her ac-
count of family experiences of an extra-sensory na-
ture, which doubtless left some impression on her.
There is apparently no surer way of bringing
down ESP scores than by causing nervous dissocia-
tion. Whether this dissociation is the result of
narcotic drugs, extreme fatigue, or sleepiness prob-
ably does not matter. There are other ways of pro-
ducing it that probably would have the same result.
In this respect ESP is closely parallel to reasoning
creative thinking, and judgment, in general. It is
well known that nervous dissociation, most often
observed through the influence of narcotic drugs,
impairs the judgment* Alcohol is the commonest
drug producing such impairment of judgment. We
have noted that in the use of sodium amytal extra-
sensory perception is interfered with before sensory
182 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
perception, just as judgment is impaired before the
senses are. In its general reactions, then, ESP be-
longs more distinctly with the higher mental
processes than it does with the lower. But again this
may be due to the fact that specific judgment is in-
volved in each call* That is, we may still not have
touched the peculiar character of a more elemental
and basic process. It is best not to be too satisfied
with what may be only a superficial relationship.
Capacity for ESP declines when interest declines.
This has been indicated in the decline curves of
Stuart, and also in the longer drawn-out decline of
Linzmayer. But it may also be observed within the
period of a single sitting when children are being
tested. The outward signs of interest in a child are
easily recognized. As these overt symptoms indi-
cate a decline of interest, the falling oflf in scoring
may be depended upon to follow almost surely.
Interest, however, is a very general term. The in-
terest of the subject may be of a number of differ-
ent kinds: At first it may be an interest in the tests,
in seeing how well he can do. Such interest is a
more personal and vital one. Later this may give
way to an intellectual interest in how the work is
going in general and what it may mean scientifically
or philosophically. Such interest is of little use in
promoting actual high scoring* It is the fresh, origi-
THE GENERAL MENTAL SETTING 183
nal, personal interest that is important for success,
much like the interest one shows in a game.
Those of us who have been working for several
years with ESP subjects have been coming gradually
to feel that our chief problem is to get the subject
to letgo of his natural inhibitions, his mental habits
that are so bound up with rational and sensory
processes. In this respect, again, good conditions for
the ESP subject are quite similar to good conditions
for the learning of an act of skill or an art or for
entering into a group activity. The person who is
inhibited, who cannot let himself go and play the
game, is likely to be unsuccessful in both types of
activity. Inhibitions, too, are internal interferences
with concentration of attention, and the effective
work that normally follows it.
Summing up this brief survey, the reader will see
that extra-sensory perception is most like the
higher, more complex mental processes in the con-
ditions it requires and the relationships it shows. It
has also, of course, many differences from these so-
called higher mental activities, but in common it
jias the elements of judgment, of concentration of
attention with freedom from distraction, need for
an active^ and sustained interest and confidence and
for a good state of nervous integration. It is a
voluntary activity directed and controlled, in-
hibited or released in general much as are those
184 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
processes of mind which are already somewhat
familiar.
So much for what extra-sensory perception is like
and what it is related to. But it does not fit in as
harmoniously with all the other properties o mind
as it does with the higher mental processes* There
are some things that it is emphatically unlike. The
chief of these is sensory perception. At the begin-
ning of our research we used the expression "extra-
sensory perception," meaning perception beyond
the recognized senses. But every year since the
work began I have become more convinced that
ESP is fundamentally different from sense percep-
tion, and extra-sensory has come to mean outside
the senses in every respect*
I feel that on this point there is much stronger
evidence than on the positive relations just de-
scribed. In ESP there seems to be no discoverable
localization. No subject knows yhere an ESP im-
pression hits him. Nor does he know when^ it hits
him. There is no local area that is recognizable as
better than another to turn toward the card or the
sender. Backs are as good as fronts, feet as good as
heads, so far as anyone through all the experimental
history of the subject has reliably discovered.
Of course, there have been people who talked
about the solar plexus and others who want to hold
the card to their foreheads, and there are various
THE GENERAL MENTAL SETTING 185
kinds of claims for nonocular vision which empha-
size some special part of the skin or body as serving
best for this purpose. But from such acquaintance
as I have had with these theories there is no reliable
experimental basis for any of their claims. When
someone specifies that he has to see through his nos-
trils or from his temple or cheekbone, I think that
is the most likely place to look for inadequate ex-
clusion of sensory cues. No such claims have been
made by any of our subjects, and almost every con-
ceivable angle of the body has been turned toward
the card or the sender without interfering with suc-
cess. And no amount of introspection can localize
any part of the periphery or interior of me body at
which there is a reliable feeling of reception such as
one has when pain, temperature, and other sensory
stimuli are given to the nerves of a particular area.
ESP stands by itself on another score. It does not
matter how the object to be perceived is held, at
what angle or in what position. It seems highly
probable, too, that the range of objects perceptible
in ESP is relatively unlimited. Indeed, there is hardly
a wider range conceivable than that which lies be-
tween the order of a pack of cards, on the one
hand, and the mental states of a distant person, on
the other. All the senses taken together do not range
so widely*
186 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
To emphasize a difference between ESP and the
recognized senses which has already been pointed
out, sensory perception resists the effect of nar-
cotic drugs long after extra-sensory perception is
Hottedout. The same thing is true of the effect of
excitement, distraction, and perhaps many other
things. While under the influence of a drug Zirkle's
ESP capacity was reduced almost to chance level
from his previous extremely high scoring but he
could still read and hear and feel pain. Even Linz-
mayer with his higher drug dosage could still hear
me quite plainly, could see what the cards were in
the checkup, and although he could not walk
straight, he was clearly aware of his disequilibrium*
Therefore, there seems a clear margin between sen-
sory and extra-sensory perception*
There lies in the very nature of the test itself an
obvious but most important distinction* For per-
ception by the senses the symbol is printed on the
"wrong side of the card.** That is, in a test such as
the down-through technique, the subject has to
perceive the symbol on the bottom cards through
the other cards or else through the table, which-
ever is easier. Still further, when stone walls and
other obstacles are put in the way, on the sensory
analogy, perception has to go through them or
else around the corner. An apparent independence
of barriers, therefore, marks a difference that is
easily overlooked, because from the beginning the
tests have to exclude the senses.
THE GENERAL MENTAL SETTING 187
8
The sharpest distinction of all between sensory
and extra-sensory perception tests is that none of
the senses show any such relative independence of
distance or space relations as seems to hold with
ESP. As a matter of fact, only a part of our senses
surmounts distance at all, and those do so at a sacri-
fice of clarity with distance. The farther away the
object seen or source of the sound heard, the poorer
the sensation will be. Not so ESP, as we shall see in
considerable detail in the chapter that follows.
The effect of distance binds up with it a number
of other points which a complete description would
have to include. For instance, distance and size are
related* If by extra-sensory perception a distant
object can be perceived just as well as a close one,
ought not a small one be perceived as well as a large
one? Work which Mrs. Rhine has conducted with a
group of neighborhood children, and a report of
which she has recently published, bears out the log-
ical prediction on this point. Her work also shows
some other contrasts between ESP and normal sen-
sory perception.
Finally, in all the sensory relations which the per-
sonality has with the world we have found through
the advance of physical science that there is an in-
termediate process relation, some sort of causal
energy. In all cases of sensory perception, forms of
energy have been found appropriate to the particu-
188 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
lar sense organ concerned: tjjjjbt
fp?rgy fr*r ^ ****"> chemical mercy
formations for the senses of taste and smell,
next chapter will make clear that there is no known
form of energy to convey JESP, impressions to
wherever in the body they are perceived.
A backward glance shows that at many points
ESP fits into certain common relationships with
higher processes of mind, and that it seems to be a
normal part of the integral system of mind. It does
not belong under the heading of sensory perception,
however, nor is it a sixth or a seventh or an nth sense.
This may possibly be hard to accept for many read-
ers who feel that they must have some kind of
hypothesis as a handrail. All I can say is that there
will probably soon be plenty of hypotheses, but
they must be framed out of the facts obtained from
experimentation rather than from old and untested
assumptions based on the inadequate facts of the
past. Better, I think (following Newton), not to
try too hastily to explain untested theoretical com-
mitments and, keeping one's objectives and safe-
guards clearly in mind, to search for the answers, in
further experiments, from the facts themselves.
CHAPTER XII
Physical Relationships
PERHAPS THE OLDEST OF ALL OUR SCIENCES 15
physics, which is concerned with matter and en-
ergy. Investigation into its problems has been car-
ried on for many centuries. But although hundreds
of years before Christ men were already making
simple discoveries about matter and motion and
principles of practical importance, the really scien-
tific era of physics begins with Galileo's famous ex-
periment in which he dropped weights from the
leaning tower of Pisa*
Whether, as so many people believe, physics is
the most basic of all our natural sciences will de-
pend, I should judge, on whether the universe is
basically physical We may find that out in time,
but we do not know it now. Nevertheless, this
branch of science appears to have penetrated so far
into its former mysteries that it is now something
of a standard, a natural frame of reference for the
other sciences. About any new phenomenon one
wants to know what are its relations to physics and
where, if at all, it belongs in the complex system of
mechanical law that this elaborate science has con-
structed. What place, then, if any, can be found
189
190 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
for extra-sensory perception in the field of physics?
It is illuminating to notice that in the history of
extra-sensory investigation the most interested of
the scientists have been the physicists. We think at
once of Sir Oliver Lodge, Sir "William Barrett, and
Sir William Crookes. There are other great English-
men too Lord Rayleigh, Sir William Ramsay, and
Sir J. J. Thomson. Among the Germans we can add
the names of Einstein, Ostwald, and the Austrian,
Mach. All these men have proposed a theory or in
some other way turned their attention to the infant
science of parapsychology, and in the response
elicited by the Duke experiments from the scien-
tific world the physicists have taken a prominent
place.
2
Hospitable as the physicists themselves have been
to the investigation of extra-sensory perception, the
science of physics itself has been quite the contrary.
In spite of all efforts to link ESP with the world of
physical processes, which science understands so
relatively thoroughly, there appears to be no known
physical condition or process to which It can be
related. Naturally, whatever we mean by the term
"extra-sensory perception,** it is a part of our
physical world in certain respects. There has to be
an object to perceive and a person to perceive it,
and both the object and the person perceiving it are
in the physical realm.
PHYSICAL RELATIONSHIPS 191
But whatever goes on between the object and
the person perceiving it the perception of the ob-
ject by the human consciousness seems to be a
process which does not have any characteristic that
would identify it with the science of physics, at
least so far as we have been able to discover. Physi-
cists who have examined our work, however, rightly
insist that the object, the symbol on the card, must
mean something, and that, since it is a physical en-
tity, physics must play some part in the field we are
investigating.
"Right," we must so far reply. "The card symbol
is the thing perceived, but is the process by which
it enters the conscious knowledge of the percipient,
the person who perceives it, in any way a detectably
physical process?"
The answer, up to the present, is "no/*
"But," say the physicists, "why, then, does it
matter whether or not there are symbols on your
cards? Why don't you have somebody just think
there is a symbol on the card? According to you, it
ought to work just as well/*
"It does work just as well," we reply, citing the
evidence for pure telepathy. "Perhaps that is all that
is happening when we have somebody think of a
symbol without the card. There is no important
difference in the two kinds of result/*
"Well," the argument continues, "doesn't think-
ing itself involve brain action? Then you're still in
192 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
the realm of physics, dealing with the physical ac-
tivity of the nerve cells of the brain."
To that our answer must be: "We don't know
yet, and will not know until physics advances
farther into the study of brain action and finds out
what happens when a human mind thinks. Then
we shall know whether thought is a wholly physical
process or is partially nonphysical, whatever *non-
physicaF may be.
Only at that point shall we be
to say whether or not a physical stimuli^ is
sary for ESP. Then pure telepathy, of course, may
prove not to be so
c
pure* if there is a physical basis
in the brain for all thought patterns."
It is important to understand clearly why the
processes of extra-sensory perception bear no dis-
coverable relationship to physics. Much of the evi-
dence on this point has been given in previous
chapters when we were demonstrating that extra-
sensory perception is not like sense perception. The
physical world is the world of the senses. Sense data
are the^oundations of physics; and so the physical
world is the world reported to the human mind by
the senses and inferred from the data collected by
the senses.
The only known physical principle that might
conceivably apply to extra-sensory perception is
that of radiant energy. If the explanation of ESP
PHYSICAL RELATIONSHIPS
is a part of the science of physics as we now
understand it, and if the symbol perceived is not
communicated directly by any or all of the five
recognized senses, then it must be conveyed by some
sort of wave or ray.
This radiant energy explanation is a compara-
tively old hypothesis, almost as old as the scientific
study of ESP itself. Back in the last century Sir
William Crookes proposed tfrfi bra^"Wfvp hvpother
-
sis of telepathy which has been mentioned in the
third chapter. At the same time German physicists
were already speculating on radiant energy theories
of telepathy. The great advance of physics into
short-wave radiation has, on the one hand, widened
the scope of possible relations between ESP and
radiant energy, and hence complicated the problem*
On the other hand, the analogy of short-wave trans-
mission in radio, which also is able to conquer dis-
tance, has overcome for many people the objections
that were easily raised in the old days against the
brain-wave theory. When it was claimed that
telepathy operated at a distance, the assertion ran
counter to what was then known of wave ener-
getics.
But a good analogy, although it helps a great deal
in popular thought, does not reliably assist the scien-
tist toward his goal of finding out what actually
occurs. In this case, if we consider together the re-
sults of all the tests that can be brought to bear on
the wave theory, the analogy, even with the aid of
194 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
its modern extensions, and suppositions, seems in-
adequate.
First, there is the question of the angle at which
the card is held. From the physical viewpoint, in
order to convey impressions of a figure printed in
ink on a white card it would be necessary to fall
back on differential radiation or differential absorp-
tion. In other words, either the figures on the cards
are giving off radiation that is different from that
given off by the cards themselves or else radiation
coming from a more remote point is absorbed
in different degrees by the ink and by the card:
theoretically, more would be absorbed by the ink
figures than by the card, just as in an X-ray photo-
graph of a ring on one's finger the ring absorbs
more of the X rays than the finger does, and there-
fore registers an impression on the photographic
plate upon which the rays impinge. Whether the
supposed rays are given off by the ink figures or
whether it is merely a case of rays passing through
the card and being absorbed more by the ink than,
by the card, the card would have to be either facing
toward or facing away from the subject in order to
give him the pattern* If the card were in the same
plane ("edgewise
3*
in common terms) as the subject
and at a distance, the symbols would be indistin-
guishable by him, since on either theory of radiation
the printed figures would convey only the effect of
straight lines.
In the mist of speculation surrounding modern
PHYSICAL RELATIONSHIPS 195
physics there are certain untested hypotheses that
allow for practically anything imaginable. One
kind of geometry among the many non-Euclidian
systems, for example, is doubtless available in which
it would theoretically be better for the card to be
turned edgewise to the percipient than broadside
on. But there is no rational comfort in using un-
stable speculations to explain these data. "We should
consider the facts of radiation mechanics when we
compare our results with wave effects, and not rely
on sheer imagination. And by all the known wave
characteristics applicable to the card phenomena
here concerned, the angle of the card to the percip-
ient would be important. When new and different
properties of waves are found, then it may be time
to reconsider.
*
When the question of barriers between the ob-
ject and the percipient is raised, the hypothetical
type of very short ray, like the X ray, which is
necessary to fill the requirements for an explanation
of ESP, will be positively eliminated. If extra-sen-
sory perceptivity were occasioned by something of
the character of X or ultraviolet rays, the walls
separating the subject from the cards would be
effective barriers, especially when there are two or
three rooms between, with some little distance
thrown in. If one falls back upon an analogy of
the cosmic ray, which has much greater penetrating
power, he encounters the difficulties of needing to
assume sufficient intensity to throw adequate
196 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
"light." There has to be enough such radiation to
throw a shadow by differential absorption. It seems
fairly certain that any such radiation coming from
ordinary inkwells or card materials would long ago
have affected the electric instruments and sensitive
plates of the laboratories. Also, even cosmic rays
could not penetrate the several hills and mountains
lying between Junaluska and Durham, when Miss
Turner and Miss Ownbey were carrying on the
250-mile telepathy series. And so the search for a
wave type which would fit this theory seems fruit-
less.
There are certain people who, like a friend of
mine, have suggested that since gravitation what-
ever it is penetrates everything known, it might
offer a better analogy. Perhaps something like
gravitation may be found to fit the facts of ESP,
but not the gravitational energy itself. For, though
the effect of distance on gravitation is great, it does
not affect ESP so far as we can determine. We are
not, therefore, encouraged to think that anything
like gravitation will explain ESP as the evidence
stands at present*
Any radiation theory becomes more difficult still
when we raise the question of how one card in a
pack of 25, especially at the bottom of the pack,
can be distinguished from the others* If there were
to be radiation passing through such a pack of
cards, the effect would be to produce on the mind
of the subject only a summarized blotch or hodge-
PHYSICAL RELATIONSHIPS 197
podge of twenty-five figures piled on top of each
other, such as a photograph would show if the cards
were stamped with lead and photographed by X
ray. To distinguish one from the other would be
hardly even an imaginable possibility, to say noth-
ing of succeeding best of all with the last five cards
down through, as most subjects have done. Again
one can imagine physical theories that might con-
ceivably allow this, granted more speculations
about the resolving power of the ESP process. But
nothing we now know about waves and minds
allows us to apply a wave theory to these results.
Besides all these objections, to explain extra-
sensory perception by a wave theory calls for apply-
ing the theory not merely to the clairvoyant card
tests, but to telepathy as well. It must apply not
only to the range of objects which have been used
successfully in ESP tests (and that range is fairly
wide if the work of others who experimented with
a more diversified range of objects than we did is
included) , but it must also be applicable to a mere
thought in a human mind. Where are the rays to
come from in this latter case? From the brain, let
us say. But would there be the same kind of trans-
mission or absorption of radiation for the thought
of a circle as that which would come from a ma-
terial object, a card with a circle stamped on it?
198 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
It is on the greater difficulty of explaining both
clairvoyance and telepathy that theorists have
always fallen down in the past*
The next thing to be considered is the distance
data the results obtained from testing subjects
at a distance from the cards or from the telepathic
sender. Here it must be admitted that the wave
theory comes under even more strain* I can think
of no greater blow that could be given it than
comes from this evidence itself. If it were found
that subjects in clairvoyance and telepathy tests
did fairly well within a few feet or a few yards
of the test material and then fell off as they got
farther away, one might suppose that there was
some kind of compensating adjustment such as we
are accustomed to finding on our modern radios, a
sort of volume control. But when a subject does the
best work he has done in months when he is sepa-
rated a hundred yards from the cards, and when
another does the best work she has ever done when
separated 250 miles from the sender, there is noth-
ing left for a wave theory to work on, and no
physicist has ever even argued the point.
The closest analogy so far offered has been that
of the skip-distance effect on short-wave radio
transmission, in which distance is not so effective
in causing a decline of intensity as it is in longer
wave lengths. But there are two things wrong even
with this analogy: first, the skip-distance phenom-
enon does show a degree of decline of intensity with
distance; second, and still more important, no anal-
ogy with even the shorter radio waves could re-
motely apply to the card situation. These radio
waves are much too long. We would have to have
a really short wave to transmit card symbols, one
measured in very small fractions of millimeters
rather than in meters, and such "really short waves"
would certainly be absorbed in passing 250 miles
along the earth's surface through atmosphere and
houses and mountains. The skip-distance analogy
is apparently of no help in explaining ESP.
Finally and this is the most important point of
all these objections to the wave hypothesis have
to be considered together as a cumulative body of
negative testimony. Probably all of them apply in
some measure if not in toto, and when they are
taken jointly they appear to leave no ground for
any theory of wave transmission in extra-sensory
perception, so fas as the nature of waves is under-
stood today.
5
The whole body of evidence for ESP at a distance
is not found solely in the Duke experiments. Earlier
instances of distance tests have been reported. By
far the best of these, in my opinion, are the experi-
ments reported by Upton Sinclair in his book Men-
tal Radiof experiments which were conducted with
his wife as subject and which won recognition from
such different scientists as Einstein and McDougall.
200 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
These experiments by Sinclair are certainly the
best that have been conducted outside university
laboratories and are written, as might be expected,
much more interestingly.
The particular series in question is that carried
on with thirty miles intervening between the
sender and the receiver,. Mrs. Sinclair. Seven draw-
ings were made by Mrs. Sinclair to represent objects
on which the sender, who was her brother-in-law,
was concentrating his attention thirty miles away,
and all were relatively if not completely successful.
These results are, of course, not evaluable by statis-
tical method, but the person who examines them
can hardly escape the conviction that something be-
sides similar habits of thought and coincidence was
responsible. The only point we need to make here
is that these seven telepathically stimulated draw-
ings were among the most precise which Mrs. Sin-
clair was ever able to produce. In other tests she did
no better with the sender right in the house with
her, or with a drawing to be duplicated actually in
her own hand or within arm's reach. Therefore,
whether it is a question of thirty millimeters or
thirty miles apparently does not matter to this
strange process.
Coming back into our own laboratory, I might
begin with a discussion of Miss Bailey, one of our
most versatile subjects. Distance experiments pre-
sented no obstacles to her. As a matter of fact, she
merely closed her eyes, seemed to go into a light
PHYSICAL RELATIONSHIPS 201
*
trance, and slowly called off the symbols with a
high rate of success. In the same room with the
sender, in this case Miss Ownbey, in 275 trials in
pure telepathy experiments, she obtained an aver-
age of 1 1.4 out of 25 ; in 450 trials in the next room
and out of sight, 9.7; with 150 trials, two rooms
away, an average of 12.0. The distance was between
twelve and fifteen feet for each room, so that at
most she was not over thirty feet away.
But what would have happened in these tests if
the cards were giving off radiation such as X rays
or any other short wave lengths? Close to the
sender let us say across the table at a distance
of three feet there would be radiation a hundred
times as intense as there would be thirty feet away.
This is to say nothing of the difficulty indeed, the
impossibility of getting appreciable radiation
from extremely short waves to pass through two
walls made of building tile with certain other im-
pediments such as bookcases between. And let us
remember that skip-distance effects have not been
found in such miniature waves as would have to be
supposed here.
6
9
The still more phenomenal work of Zirkle offers
support, not only of the same kind, but with much
larger numbers. Miss Bailey did only about 900
trials, while Zirkle did several thousand. Zirkle's
averages in the same room, one room away, and
202 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
two rooms away from the sender were respectively
14.0, 14.6, and 16.0. Here again it seemed there
was a little advantage in getting away from the
sender instead of a pronounced falling off which
would have been looked for had there been a radia-
tion basis for this phenomenon.
It is not wise to emphasize too greatly the fact
of improvement with distance, since we are not
sure just how this will ultimately be regarded. It
has happened with most of the subjects who have
done successful distance work. I can submit only
a hypothesis to explain this tendency: when the
subject is in the same room with the sender or
with the cards he is from long habit prone to give
a certain amount of attention to them through the
senses. He is sensorially aware of the presence of
the cards or of the sender and he cannot adequately
shut off these natural, long-used outlets of atten-
tion. When he is out of sight, out of hearing, habit
turns in the opposite direction. These sensory chan-
nels are closed. There is no use trying to see or
hear. He is then more prepared for that full con-
centration of attention upon a nonsensory atti-
tude. Up to a certain point it might well be that
the farther away the subject the better the results,
although a relation proportionate to extreme dis-
tance could hardly be expected. An adverse factor
might appear if the subject believed that the in-
tervening distance was too complete a separation*
A distance of 165 miles was too much for Zirkle,
PHYSICAL RELATIONSHIPS 203
even during the period when he was doing his best
work. But again one can hazard a pretty good
guess to explain this failure. Zirkle, as a subject,
had some difficulty in adjusting to new situations
in the ESP work. For example, it took him nearly
six months to adapt himself to doing clairvoyance,
though he was very high in telepathy tests. How
long, then, should one expect him to work at
distance ESP before success would be likely to
come? It did not seem worth his valuable time to
try so extended an experiment. Accordingly, after
a short series, the attempt was discontinued.
On this topic again we come back to our star
subject, Pearce. As a matter of fact, our most
unassailable experiments which seem to cover and
meet all points of attack have been the distance
tests with Pearce, conducted by Pratt and later
partly witnessed by myself. In his first attempt
at distance tests Pearce had been a relative failure*
He did not fail entirely, although he almost did
so when stationed two rooms away. His averages
for all three conditions were very low for him: in
the same room, 6.4; one room away, 6.1; two
rooms away, 5.2.
In this work Stuart was acting as sender, and
it was evident from the general results that some-
thing was wrong. Stuart can be completely ex-
204 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
onerated from any responsibility. I am quite ready
to accept the blame myself for having suggested
an elaborate routine. There were to be three con-
ditions, three distances, and a certain daily routine
more or less rigidly carried out, a program widely
at variance with the way we ordinarily worked
with Pearce. In fact, this was the first time such
a complex program had been laid down for any of
our subjects, and it was the last time* When, after
several thousand trials, it was clear that Pearce's
work was falling off badly, the conditions were
changed not relaxed as to precautions, but rather
loosened in formality and fixed routine. There-
after when Pearce came into the laboratory for
an hour or two of research he no longer knew in
advance to just which tests every minute was to
be given. There was an opportunity from moment
to moment for him to suggest changes himself. He
could say, "Let's try some DT," or "Let me go
over to the next room awhile/* or suggestions from
the experimenter would be made* This broke the
monotony and very probably contributed to his
doing successful scoring.
The Pratt-Pearce tests to which I referred at the
beginning of this section were made considerably
later, and the distance was fixed at over 100 yards
right from the start. If I remember rightly, it was
Pearce who first suggested this distance, follow-
ing the startling results achieved by Miss Turner.
At any rate, to have done so would be quite in
PHYSICAL RELATIONSHIPS 20 J
keeping with his personality. He liked a challenge.
The arrangements were as indicated in the illus-
tration facing the following page. Pearce had a small
cubicle in the Duke General Library. More than
100 yards away from his cubicle, on the opposite
side of the library, Pratt in his research room in
the Physics Building was to start the test at a time
agreed upon in advance, and begin by taking the
top card from an ESP pack and laying it on a book
in the center of a table. After a minute of exposure
this card, still face down, was laid aside and the
next card was put in its place. The cards were
piled up in order, waiting for the end of the run,
which took twenty-five minutes. At the mid-point
of each minute Pearce, with his synchronized
watch, recorded in the library what he thought
the symbol was on the card Pratt was handling.
After two runs had been made, Pratt turned
the two packs of cards over and made a record
on a slip of paper. The records were brought in a
sealed envelope to me. Pearce brought his the same
way. There was to be no discussion between the
two until the envelopes had been delivered to me,
which was done shortly after the experiment.
From Pratt's window Pearce could be seen enter-
ing the library. The packs of cards were shuffled
after Pearce left Pratt's room. Two packs were
used each day*
As usual, Pearce started poorly. He seldom began
a new condition or technique with his best scor-
206 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
ing. On the first two days he did only three runs,
obtaining 3, 8, and 5. Beginning on the third day
with 9 and 10, he averaged 11.4 for the next four
days that the experiment was continued. In fact,
on the last day his scores were the highest. He made
three runs on that day to round up the number
of trials to 300, and in the three runs together,
where chance score would have been 15, he ob-
tained a total of 38*
About the only criticism that could be leveled
at this work is the rather extreme supposition that
Pratt and Pearce were in collusion to deceive. But
even this point is covered by the fact that a little
later I witnessed a three-day series under the same
conditions. I stayed in the room with Pratt while
the work was being carried on. I watched him
shuffle the cards, I cut the pack, and I watched
him record* In these 150 trials the average was 93.
Even this short series yielded results so fat above
chance that, statistically speaking, the odds are
over a million to one against chance's being the
explanation.
Not all of Pearce's distance work was as good
as this. But if he could hold up to such a level as
9.9 through 300 trials, improving as he weat and
going at his highest when stopped, it is enough to
show that ESP does not need to fall off because of
distance alone. It certainly did not fall off in hits
work inversely with the square of the distance, as
A PORTION OF THE MEN S CAMPUS AT DUKE UNIVERSITY,
SHOWING THE BUILDINGS IN WHICH DISTANCE TESTS IN
ESP WERE MADE. ONE SERIES OF TESTS WAS MADE FROM
B TO C, IOO YARDS DISTANT. A SECOND WAS BKTWEKN
A AND C, 250 YARDS.
PHYSICAL RELATIONSHIPS 207
light intensity or sound would do. As a matter of
fact, the trials made in the same room with the
cards, with Pratt as experimenter, just before and
just after carrying out these tests at 100 yards,
averaged only 8.2.
After deliberately stopping Pearce in the midst
of his finest scoring at 100 yards, we increased the
distance to 250 yards. At the same time it was
necessary for Pratt himself to go to another room,
and he took the cards to be used to the Duke
Medical Building* Then something happened to
Pearce's scoring. It was not a falling off due to dis-
tance, apparently, since in his first day's work he
scored 12 and 10 per 25, which was right up to
his best average. But the next day he got exactly
chance. The third day he scored high again with
two 10*s; then the fourth day it was only a 2 and a
6, the fifth day a 5 and a 12, down again the next
day to 7 and f, and up once more to make it a
perfect zigzag. But his total average for this block
of work was only 6.7*
As to what started this strange alternation of
high and low scoring neither Pearce nor we had
or have any reliable information* In the course of
twenty-two days* work, or forty-four runs, he
scored zero three times. By chance alone zero
would not be expected even once. On the other
hand, he scored 10 or above in thirteen out of
the forty-four trials. By chance, no score as high
as that would be expected more than once. In
208 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
three successive days he made the score 4 five times
out of the six runs, the other score being a 1.
This scoring is the most peculiar that Pearce
ever did. It indicates that he was almost alternately
successful and unsuccessful, but when he was at
his best he did quite as well as, in fact better than,
when he was in the same room with the cards.
When he was having a poor day he did worse than
chance. After performing in this curious way at
the longer distance, Pratt moved back to the
Physics Building for another 300 trials to ascertain
if the change had been in Pearce or in the condi-
tions. The result was an average of 7.2, only a little
above the average of 6.7 which had been obtained
just before at the longer distance. It thus appeared
that the change had been in Pearce, and this fur-
ther supports the internal evidence that it was not
increased distance that had led to the up-and-down
scoring.
Naturally we wanted still greater distance be-
tween Pearce and the cards. The time did not seem
appropriate to try it in view of Pearce's decline on
the latest trials at 100 yards. But in this work there
is always a risk, so we took a chance. The next step
involved a distance of two miles, and things went
wrong from the start. The room arranged for was
not open when it should have been and for sev-
eral days there was frustration in the physical de-
tails of the experiment. After things were finally
straightened out, there was no appreciable success.
PHYSICAL RELATIONSHIPS 209
Seeing that Pearce had rather lost his spirit in the
matter, we gave up the project.
An attempt was then made in another direction:
sending Pearce out in my car to different points
in the country, he was asked to record calls at
different distances as registered on the speedometer-
No success came in the few days of trial made
with this, and largely because Pearce was not hope-
ful, we did not push him further. Theoretically
there was little that could be added on the point
on which we were then concentrating, and the
finer ramifications of ESP at a distance will have
to be worked out when facilities are more freely
at our disposal and the control of conditions more
satisfactory.
There remains only the unique but brief series
of Miss Turner and her phenomenal long-distance
series of 200 trials. Enough has already been said
about this 250-mile distant experiment in ESP,
But nothing has been offered by anyone to explain
it away, unless conceivably there was some collusion
between Miss Ownbey, my trusted experimental
assistant for several years, and Miss Turner, whose
reputation, too, is beyond reproach. Miss Turner
had never before made a score of 19, which was
what she got on the first day's run. Can one imag-
ine a wave hypothesis applying to these results?
Can Miss Ownbey in Durham have been so power-
ful a "broadcasting station** that 250 miles would
sniy improve the clarity of her reception?
210 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
8
For that matter, on any wave theory the per-
cipient, or receiver, would presumably have to be
screening out radiations from the brains of all the
rest of the inhabited globe, especially if distance
makes no appreciable difference. If 250 miles is
only a good start, then from all sides impressions
would be coming in upon the poor, defenseless
subject's "receiving station/* impressions which
would presumably contain some circles and stars
and plus signs or at least would contain a great
deal of static. What remarkable selection one
would have to attribute to any hypothetical waves,
even if there were no further difficulties to be con-
sidered!
From all the facts, then, singly or jointly con-
sidered, there is nothing to favor a wave theory
except the fact that it is ready at hand, and on a
number of points it would be excluded by the
nature of the evidence*
But if not waves, then what? When waves are
ruled out are all the known energies eliminated?
Perhaps it would be perilous to say anything defi-
nite in view of the present state of flux in the field
of physics. As a matter of fact, we do not find in
our discussions with physicists that they are ready
to offer any physical hypotheses beyond the range
of the analogies of known wave mechanics.
PHYSICAL RELATIONSHIPS 211
9
But still there is a strong disposition, which I
myself share, to try to regard these phenomena of
ESP as somehow within the pale of energy causa-
tion, energetic in the sense that something occurs
which in the end achieves work, brings about
change, even though as yet the number of work
units which are achieved in a given trial or run
has not actually been studied. Certainly, when
Miss Turner is so guided by Miss Ownbey 250
miles away that she is led to put down a certain
set of symbols, 19 of them correct, there is causa-
tion of the one person's set of results by the other's
action as an agent, just as clearly as if the per-
cipient had been guided by an electrical circuit*
We need not understand the method of causation
to recognize that this is a fact. And if Miss Own-
bey has led Miss Turner to do work, in the physi-
cist's sense of the word, there must have been,
according to present conceptions of the definition
of energy^ an energetic connection* Yet if the in-
verse square law, which holds that energy decreases
as the square of the distance, and other criteria
of mechanics limit the mechanical energetics ESP,
we have, curiously enough, come round by what
we regard as a strictly evidential and experimental
route to just the position that the man behind so
much of this ESP research. Professor McDougall,
has long maintained 00 other grounds: that in
212 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
mental processes a nonmechanical and, as he calls
it, teleological but not mystical mode of causation
is in operation. Now, all that these formidable
terms mean in the last analysis is that something
peculiarly purposive and personal is going on in
the activity of the mind and that this is something
over and above the laws of mechanics as we know
them.
The thing to remember about physics is that,
however well developed it seems in comparison
with the other sciences, it has scarcely touched the
problems of the working of the simplest proto-
plasm. Physics has not yet approached the threshold
of the nature of life. In spite of the brilliance of
recent researches, the principal physics of the ner-
vous system is still a great mystery. A mere sensa-
tion, the simplest element of mind if we can thus
arbitrarily speak of it is too far beyond the pres-
ent frontiers of physics for us even to conjecture
how great the gap may be. And the physics of
sensation is probably relatively simple, relatively
easy in contrast to the physics of higher mental
processes.
"What physics will be like when it advances
through these fields of untouched problems we
can at this time have scarcely the faintest notion.
What it may be prepared ultimately to include in
its scope it would be fooKsh to conjecture. It is
well to be open to the possibility that expanding
physics may sometime be prepared to deal with
PHYSICAL RELATIONSHIPS 213
the phenomenon of ESP even though it seems at
present to have none but the remotest intercourse
with it.
The concept of a nonmechanical energy or a
nonmechanical physics which might include the
phenomena of mind is little more than a logical
category. If it serves to indicate an open-mind-
edness to the possibility of thus unifying what we
know from one field with what we have known
from others, we may put it down as one of the
possibilities; but put down alongside that possi-
bility the statement that a physics or energetics
which embraced ESP and other related mental
processes would be so free from the limitations of
the present scope of mechanics that those who
dread too close an alliance between mind and me-
chanics need have no concern over such a con-
tiguity.
10
These people who have long ago been led to dis-
card a wave theory of ESP and who have searched
in all logical quarters for another way to explain
it, for some other hypothesis, have not had much
success* What they have had to do is to suppose
cosmic reservoirs or absolutes of some kind which
contain, all knowledge of everything there is and
ever will be* They must also suppose that the mind
of man can, as it were, telephone in to these great
central sources of information and draw at liberty
214 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
upon them. The "cosmic consciousness** or any
other great suppositional source of information,
or even the extreme view that possibly spirits of
the dead co-operate as messengers, signaling from
a higher point of vantage, do not help in the solu-
tion of the problem of extra-sensory perception.
Without attempting to rule them out of consid-
eration, one need only say that they still leave us
with the same old problem on our hands; How
does ESP occur?
Even if a friendly incorporeal personality or
spirit were to look at the cards on Pratt's table and
rush instantaneously to Pearce in the library in the
Duke Physics Building with the knowledge, guid-
ing his hand to put it down on paper, how could
we, then, account for Pearce's knowing that sym-
bol before he put it down on paper? Only by an
assumption of telepathy from the incorporeal spirit
to Pearce. And how account for the supposed
spirit's getting knowledge of the symbol from the
card without eyes, without senses? Extra-sensory
perception? Or suppose one does tap the "cosmic
reservoir." It would have to be done extra-sen-
serially, since we possess no senses which can look
into such an unseen world of mysteries* Again,
extra-sensory perception! Wltat is die use, then,
of these more elaborate hypotheses? The law of
parsimony, which declares that other things being
equal the simplest explanation is the best one, rules
PHYSICAL RELATIONSHIPS 215
them out until they become a factual necessity.
To say the least, that time is not here yet.
But a good, healthy science does not need to
have all its problems solved at one moment. Only
hasty speculators cannot face waiting and search-
ing until the facts themselves give the right answer.
In the fullness of time plus a great deal of hard
work it seems likely that hypotheses in plenty
will rise out of the very experiments set up to
yield the facts. Until that time we must admit that
we do not have any intelligent hypothesis of the
fundamental nature of ESP. There is ahead of us
the adventure of finding out*
CHAPTER XIII
Who Has Extra-memory Perception?
Even if we cannot explain exactly what ESP
is, what energy is uses, or how it fits into the world
of sense and mechanics, there are other interesting
things about it, and some of them can be answered
fairly definitely. For example, how widespread is
the ESP ability among people in general? In an
earlier chapter I referred to the estimate, made at
Duke some years ago, of one in five as about the
proportion of subjects who could demonstrate
extra-sensory perceptivity with our card tests.
Since that time the various searches for good sub-
jects in other colleges and universities has con-
firmed this rough average. Does this mean that
the four who do not show significant scores are
without the ESP faculty? At present I am inclined
to believe that this is not necessarily the case* There
are fairly reliable indications that anyone in good
health and free from worty, fatigue, or other
limiting causes may do significant work if he caw
be interested and can be persuaded to co-operate
fully and try patiently*. Securing this attitude is
partly the responsibility of the investigator, and
an
WHO HAS EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION? 217
better techniques for doing so may perhaps be
worked out later.
Not much has been said so far in this boot about
what kinds of people are most likely to display
special aptitude for ESP. Points like this are not
among the best established aspects of our work;
on the other hand, they are not so important as
to require a high degree of experimental verifica-
tion. Any public discussion of the whole subject
generally gets round to the problem of personality
and extra-sensory capacity sooner or later* Are
women more often gifted than men? Does age
have anything to do with the case? Are there any
known factors of race, color, or physical condition
which seem to affect the occurrence of ESP? There
is no reason why a few suggested answers to these
questions may not be given here, with the replies
based in part on work that is to be published in
full later on*
It is clear that age is not a limiting factor.
Among the subjects who got significant results
have been people ranging in age from four to
sixty. The older people are on the ^rhole more
steady,, while the interest in scoring ability on the
part of children is relatively short-lived. There
does not seem to be any correlation, of ability with
age, but some age groups are more suitable to work
with, for secondary reasons. It is easier to secure
218 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
the co-operation of young people because their
time is freer and they demand less rational ex-
planation to justify their entering into the tests.
This point is easiest of all, of course, with children;
but the problem of maintaining interest is the
difficulty in their case. Some of the best projects
at the present time are being conducted with chil-
dren, and one perfect score (that is, a run of 2J
successive hits) was made by a child of twelve.
But in general the most satisfactory work is still
being done with college students, who have served
as subjects in practically all the university studies
before and since the Duke experiments began.
There does not seem to be any superiority ^f
women over menin this
regard;
we have had about
equal success with both sexes. The results of sev-
eral series give a reasonably strong impression that
in telepathy there is an added advantage in having
sender and receiver of opposite^ sexes* *rEuTmay
be due to that touch of added entertainment which
we customarily find in that particular social sit-
uation. The problem of racial comparisons has not
yet been adequately explored.
As to intelligence, our subjects have ranged from
Duke's most capable students down to approxi-
mately average students. So far none has been be-
low average. In exploring for subjects, persons
with sttbaverage intelligence have not yet been
particularly sought out, but in the study of school
children made by Miss Bond, already referred to,
COMPKTITIVK SCRIiKNKI) OPEN MATCHING TliST. CHIL-
DREN TAKE THE TKST AS A GAME.
WHO HAS EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION? 219
her own retarded pupils of the fourth and fifth
grades were used as subjects* There were twenty
of them classified at various levels of retardation.
No significant relation was found between intelli-
gence and level of scoring ability, nor has anything
so far suggested any correlation of ESP ability with
the general level of intelligence as judged by schol-
astic work. Clearly, factors other than intelligence
are concerned.
3
Does the ESP ability grow greater with learning
or practice, after the subject has once accustomed
himself to die technique of a particular test? Ap-
parently not. The fact that there has Jbeen no
perceptible "learning curve** or increase of profi*
cfency In the perfonmn^ of the subjects with
whom we have worked makes it unlikely that any
correlation will later be found with general learn-*
ing ability* Cooper got one of his best scores dur-
ing the first 50 trials he was ever given. Stuart's
first JOG were the best he did out of 10,000 trials.
Pearce rose to his best level during Ac first hun-
dred; Linzmaycr did likewise* And so it goes*
For some time Stuart attempted to develop the
view that there was some connection between ar-
tistic interest and ESP ability* He himself Is artis-
tically gifted and so are the other good subjects*
A few of the remainder, however, have only such
artistic appreciation as involves enjoying music or
220 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
appreciating some other form of art. The total
number of subjects we have worked with is still
too small to permit any reliable correlation, and
there are some marked exceptions.
The question whether the blind are especially
competent ESP subjects has often been asked. A
preliminary study of this point has at last been
made, with Miss Margaret Pegram and Miss Mar-
garet Price, of the Duke laboratory, in charge.
They worked largely with the blind boys and men
from a school not far from the university* The re-
sults of their tests certainly show a more-than-
average likelihood of a blind person's possessing
ESP ability. Of the total number of blind persons
they tested, between a third and a half showed
significant results. The conditions of the in-
vestigation were excellent, and it looks, at least
superficially, as if blind people may show some
compensating superiority in this nonsensory mode
of perception*
But there are other possibilities to account for
the higher scores made by the blind, and the ex-
perimenters themselves wisely refrain from taking
any position except a noncommittal one. The blind
subjects may simply have been more hopeful,, or
more interested, and so proved better subjects on
the score of attitude rather than through the de-
velopment of a greater capacity for ESP.
Little, if anything, then, can be said that will
characterize the successful ESP subject as different
WHO HAS EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION? 221
in mind or personality from those who do not suc-
ceed* Those traits which seem at present to give an
indication of the sort of people who will make
promising subjects would really characterize only
the sort of person who is most likely to have atti-
tudes of mind favorable to trying out the tests.
In other words, we might say such-and-such a
person will be likely to enter into the experiments
wholeheartedly or will have no inhibitions about
it. About the only reliable predisposing character-
istic that may be used with any assurance and it
should be used with considerable reservation is a
genuine enthusiasm for being tested for the sake of
the test itself, as a game or performance, and it
is hard to pick out people on this basis or to find
anything in the known process of the mind with
which this observation can be calculated* But this
is not to say that it cannot eventually be done.
There is, however, one particular sort of human
being to whom it is worth paying special attention
in this discussion* In all ages and in all times there
have been certain persons who have been believed
to possess unusual powers. In many cases these
powers seem to have been at least partly extra-
sensory perceptive, either clairvoyant or telepathic
or both. Such uncommonly endowed men and
women have been variously known as soothsayers,
222 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
sybils* witches, pythonesses, priests, priestesses, and
oracles; in modern times they are referred to gen-
erally as mediums, clairvoyants, or fortunetellers.
The word "medium" is, of course, taken from the
vocabulary of spiritualism and implies the hy-
pothesis that the special powers in question come
from the spirits of the dead. In short, mediums are
believed to intermediate between their clients and
these spirits.
Whatever may be the reader's beliefs about spir-
itualism and mediums, certainly he will agree that
the opportunity to test a professionally success-
ful medium for ESP was much to be desired. Such
a chance came our way when Mrs. Eileen Garrett,
the British medium, visited this country in the
spring of 1934. Mrs. Garrett had already achieved
an international reputation among the psychical
research societies.
There was at least one astonishing story of her
powers which rests upon the authority of a well-
known psychiatrist on the Pacific coast* An ex-
periment in telepathy was arranged between Mrs.
Garrett, who was in California at -the time, and a
certain doctor in the remote island of Iceland* a
place in the neighborhood of 4,400 miles away. At
a given moment Mrs. Garrett was to attempt to
get in telepathic communication with this man
and report what he was doing. She did so, and die
subsequent checkup revealed, according to report,
that not only had she described correctly various
WHO HAS EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION? 223
smaller circinnstances, but she had even been able
to report that he was injured, a fact unknown in
California. This story, so reminiscent of the ancient
tale of the test which King Croesus of Lydia im-
posed upon various oracles in his search for a re-
liable one, whetted our desire to test Mrs. Garrett
under laboratory conditions, and her willingness to
let us test her made it appear that she would make
an ideal subject.
Our first interest, of course, was to obtain a
measure of her ability as a subject in our ordinary
card-calling and telepathic tests. It was soon ob-
vious that Mrs. Garrett did not enjoy the card
tests, and I learned indirectly that she disliked them
vigorously from the beginning, protesting that
they were, for her, an overmechanization of the
extra-sensory process. She was used to doing clair-
voyant work in personal relations with people and
not with mere routine handling of packs of cards.
This is not an unreasonable difference, and her
attitude was quite understandable although it was
unusual among the subjects tested.
At any rate, while Mrs. Garrett began at once to
score well on the telepathic tests and did so with dif-
ferent senders, both in the same room and one or
two rooms away, she did not do well with the card-
calling tests; and it was only after several days*
work that she rose to an average per day that be-
came significant of her actual clairvoyant capacity*
Taken as a whole, her work in clairvoyance was
224 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
significant, but lower than that of many of our
own subjects. Her telepathic work, on the con-
trary, was in a class with that of our very best
subjects. In fairness to Mrs. Garrett, as well as to
my own view of the close relationship between
clairvoyance and telepathy, the fact of her dis-
like for the card-calling technique is a plausible
explanation for her lower results in clairvoyance.
For many readers the most interesting aspect of
the work with Mrs. Garrett will be that which
was done in trance. Spiritists believe that in the
trance state of mediums a change of personality
occurs. The new personality speaks in a different
voice from the medium's own, displays other dif-
ferences of personality, and claims to know facts
of which the medium is personally ignorant. In
Mrs. Garrett's case the most frequent trance per-
sonality is one describing himself as the spirit of
an ancient Arab by the name of UvanL Uvani
claims Mrs. Garrett as his instrument; he states
that he himself does not possess clairvoyant or
telepathic power, but that when he takes part in
the tests it is the instrument whose power he uses.
I cannot understand how, were he a spirit, Uvani
could get along without these extra-sensory modes
of perception, since presumably senses are a part
of the body which he left on the sands of Arabia
centuries ago. But this is beside the point.
The interesting fact is that the Uvani personal-
ity, whatever his relation with the Mrs. Garrett
WHO HAS EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION? 225
personality, averaged close to the results obtained
by Mrs* Garrett in the waking state. The most re-
markable point is that he, too, showed the high
telepathic and the low clairvoyant capacity which
she did; and this is the only work in which we
have had a marked difference in that direction.
Add to this the fact that both telepathy and clair-
voyance curves for Mrs. Garrett showed first a
steady rise and then a steady drop during the three
weeks of investigation. Further, when the trance
tests began, they ran through approximately sim-
ilar rates of decline, both in telepathy and in clair-
voyance. Altogether, then, the results indicated a
close similarity between the tests in trance and
the tests in the waking state. Uvani would seem
to be right: the gifts are the gifts of the medium,
whatever Uvani himself may be.
Does this difference between telepathy and clair-
voyance constitute an exception to my view of the
essentially fundamental relationship between these
two? Probably not. Rather, in the fact that both
waking and trance conditions showed closely paral-
lel results, it seems to furnish some further con-
firmation of the view that the two powers are
related. Here were two states of personality in
which similar conditions brought about similar
changes in both telepathy and clairvoyance si-
multaneously. Something was operating to dimin-
ish the subject's clairvoyance or else increase her
telepathy, but this could well happen in accord-
226 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
ance with the view that telepathy and clairvoyance
are basically rooted in the same process.
Altogether, the work with Mrs* Garrett was
among the most interesting we have done. Her
averages, omitting a final week during which she
was manifestly ill, were about 10.1 for telepathy
in the waking state and 9.1 in trance. The more
than 8,000 trials with clairvoyance averaged only
5.7 in the waking state and 5.6 in trance. But even
so, with such a large number, they were very sig-
nificant. During the high point in her curve, for
a three-day period she rose to an average of 6.3 in
clairvoyance in 3,500 runs and to 13*4 in telep-
athy.
But we did not test Mrs. Garrett solely by the
routine procedures of the laboratory. In fairness
to her own professional method we thought it
proper to test her under her own conditions. Ac-
cordingly, a series of sittings, as they are called,
was arranged whereby persons unknown to her
could be brought to the laboratory under carefully
guarded conditions, with a view to finding out
whether information could be given them that
could not have been obtained by Mrs. Garrett by
the normal methods of sense or of reason. To ex-
clude the senses, the subject was brought into the
room only after the medium was put into trance.
The subject was then seated behind her and was
WHO HAS EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION? 227
asked to remain silent throughout the sitting and
to leave before the medium awoke from trance, in
case there were to be other sittings for the same
visitor. Stenographic records were taken of all
that the medium said. During a second series even
greater precautions were taken to make sure that
the medium had no sensory contact with the visit-
ing subject. In this series the sitter was kept in an
adjoining room with a closed door between*
One of the objectives in these experiments was
to secure records of the medium's remarks with-
out the visitor's hearing what she said. Records
made under these conditions, and of all the sittings
together could be shown to the various sitters
without any one of them knowing which partic-
ular record contained the medium's comments in-
tended for him. His judgment could be secured
upon all of them and would be relatively free
from bias or, if bias was shown, it would be equally
great for all the sittings, and the danger thus
would be eliminated.
A method of evaluation for this sort of work
with mediums has been devised by two English-
men, H. F. Saltmarsh and S. G. Soal. It makes pos-
sible a mathematical expression of relative success
or failure with fair precision, or at least on the
side of safety. Dr. Pratt, who was in charge of this
project and who has since published a written
record of it, prepared a long questionnaire based
on the records of Mrs. Garrett's sittings. This ques-
228 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
tionnaire was submitted to all the sitters and each
one answered all the points listed, not only his own
but those for all the others. From these answers a
value was computed for each sitting. In these
mediumistic records, extra-sensorially obtained
knowledge was manifest in connection with sev-
eral visiting subjects. Also, the work as a whole
passed the mathematical criterion of extra-chance
results.
It must be pointed out, however, that, though
Mrs. Garrett acquitted herself well in all these
activities, the simple routine tests for telepathy and
clairvoyance showed with greater economy of
energy and much more clarity her capacities for
extra-sensory perception*
"Whether there is something beyond these nat-
ural capacities for extra -
sensory perception,
whether there is something more working in the
Uvani personality in trance, as he insists, we have
no way of knowing and as yet no way of finding
out with any degree of assurance* There is no need
on this occasion even to express a leaning. For that
problem of parapsychology needs a vast prepara-
tion and a secure foundation for long research*
CHAPTER XIV
The Mailbag
WHEN THE FIRST TECHNICAL REPORT ON THE
Duke experiments to be presented in book form
Extra-Sensory Perception appeared in 1934,
one reviewer, after discussing the book itself, ended
his article by saying, "I foresee for Professor Rhine
a large increase in his mail/* He was right. There
have been letters, thousands of them, from every
sort of place and person from the moment when
something of what we were doing became publicly
known. A representative sample of our mailbag
reveals what meaning has been given to our re-
searches by the general public and what kind of
suggestions and questions the work has brought
forth.
Almost every letter that came into the office
has been acknowledged and, if possible, answered.
Most of this mail is interesting from one point of
view or another* Much of it has been helpful, and
some of it extraordinarily so. Through this corre-
spondence, for one thing, a network of co-workers
over the country has been established, and through
their collaboration our capacity for research has
been greatly increased* Something of the extent
230 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
of this interested co-operation was indicated in a
previous chapter.
2
First for some of the less profitable but inter-
esting letters. There is no doubt that through
working with the mysteries of telepathy and clair-
voyance we have won recognition from all the
brotherhood which William James terms the
"lunatic fringe" of humanity. (I would not use
so harsh a term myself.)
In spite of years of inquiry with some phase or
other of this subject, I had never dreamed there
were so many brands and branches of the "occult
sciences** as there really are in practice in this
country* How many strange cults and odd philoso-
phies seem to be established and flourishing, how
many imposing titles that imply transcendent
powers of mind and body, how many opportuni-
ties for the development of one's hidden capacities!
The laboratory must have come into contact with
every one of them by this time*
Our answer to these usually sincere "seekers-
after-truth" is that they and we do not speak the
same language, that while we, too, are seeking after
truth we arc limited to a strict method and pro-
cedure and that our only feeling of safety rests
in adhering closely to that discipline, regardless of
temptations to follow short-cut pa**" that may
THE MAILBAG 231
be advertised to us. Furthermore, none of us at
Duke can afford to attach ourselves to groups who
do not use such a method, because we wish to carry
with us a substantial body of scientific men who
can see what we see in our observation and experi-
ments and who can help to interpret these results.
Finally, unless our correspondents are willing to
adopt the rigid experimental and quantitative
treatment, there can be no degree of co-operation*
As a rule, that reply ends the matter.
Sometimes these holders of the key to mystery
want to come for a personal interview, to explain
"the real science, the oldest of them all" astrol-
ogy, of course and tell us what wonderful work
is being done through its aid- Or, sometimes we
get a letter from a pyramidologist, with a key to
the prophetic mysteries of the pyramids, who sees
how open-minded we are and feels that we must
be kindred spirits. Now and again the correspon-
dent is someone who has traveled far and seen many
strange mysteries, from Tibet to Timbuktu, from
Lily Dale to Hollywood. Some of them even get
as far as Durham, plump themselves down in my
office* and want to help me experiment, because
they have seen things such as I have never dreamed
of seeing. There is the woman who has seen them
with her own eyes. She has acquired disciplines that
would make my experiments seem trifling. Twenty
per cent above chance? A hundred per cent right
232 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
is her average! Of course, there is always a theo-
retical background. 'The lotus has opened" or she
has been initiated by special contact with an orien-
tal priest into mysteries beyond my comprehen-
sion. Over and over I go through my standard
routine explanation.
First, I do appreciate or try to such interest
and sincerity. But, in science as in religion, one
may say, "By their fruits ye shall know them/*
"If you have some special power, we will be
interested to have you show it to us in any way
that will be convincing to us and other students
of science. You will not even need to tell us how
you do it to get us interested. But please do it first!
Please take some reliable test method. You arc wel-
come to use the tests which we will give you, or
if you can devise better ones, more suited to your
purpose, we shall be glad to go over them and see
your results. If you find you can do the things
you say you can, under test conditions, with your-
self or with others, we'll go a long way to study
with you and help you bring your work before
a scientific audience* Whether you use the 'oldest
of the sciences* or the pyramids or Yoga or the
lines of the palm matters not in the least, if you
can produce good, clear-cut results that permit of
only one interpretation, that of perception with-
out sensory means. If you cannot, you are out-
side our field of study* Until you prove your
THE MAILBAG 233
powers objectively, we haven't much in common
or at least we do not know that we have/*
At that point I look anxiously at my watch or
at the door or at the mail from other inquirers
which I have not yet been able to read. Sometimes
that works. Not always. . . .
Yet I must not leave the impression that we are
unsympathetic to these people. All we are unsym-
pathetic to is the way they are floundering about
without a line, a method, to pull them ashore. In
my judgment they represent intelligent humanity
of a prescientific era. Many of them are fine, aspir-
ing souls trying to find a better explanation of
man and a better code of action for his conduct.
The fact that I have the instrument of scientific
method to use and am that much more fortunate
makes me want to find for them such truth as
there may be, though they may be all too ready to
accept it, even uncritically.
Even when one of us is called in to investigate
a blindfolded boy trickster, a theatrical "telep-
athy" performer, or a fraudulent medium, we do
not try to disillusion their clients or victims by a
public statement* The task of research is to find
what is true* The exposure of fraud is a practical
social problem not in our line* There are those
who will censure us for this stand* But it is, I think,
highly defensible both on practical and on aesthetic
grounds. Besides, we do not want to waste precious
234 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
time wrangling with the ever-present sponsors and
defenders of every fake. I have been all through
that once and am convinced that in general it is a
bad policy*
3
A surprisingly large number of letters have al-
most the same general wording and always move
me to more pity than do any other communica-
tions we receive. The writer will explain that he
or she has been the victim of telepathy, of tele-
pathic approaches from someone, usually specified
more or less clearly. Someone, these letters say, is
trying to force his or her attentions upon the suf-
ferer, persecuting him. Commonly there will be an
explanation of the reasons for this persecution.
The appeal is made to us for some way of shielding
the victim from these approaches.
What can we do for such people beyond pitying
them? We usually explain that they need have no
fear of telepathy's being so used, that it is weak
enough at best, and that we have no evidence
whatever of the possibility of its being employed in
any harmful way. As gently as we can we suggest
that worries of this kind can often be helped by
talking with a person who understands the mind,
and if there is a doctor near by whose specialty is
the field of mental problems he should be con-
sulted.
Such people are the last, X suspect, actually to
THE MAILBAG 235
have genuine telepathic experiences* Certainly the
few who have been tested in mental hospitals
people who suffer from delusions of persecution
through the medium of telepathy have not
shown the capacity at all* For these estimates I am
indebted to two friends, both on the staffs of
mental hospitals.
4
Another interesting group of correspondents
from whom we hear occasionally are those who
regard themselves as "potentially psychic," as they
say, and wish to develop their powers* Sooner or
later, probably, such people get into contact with
persons who are only too eager to help them develop
their powers in so many lessons at so much per les-
son. But from us they receive at most a few instruc-
tions in ESP technique and perhaps a pack of cards,
and that much only if they seem able to follow the
instructions or to appreciate what the results might
mean.
Our mail is seldom without calls for practical
help, the writers apparently believing that anyone
working in such a field must have around him a
great many clairvoyant subjects who can, for ex-
ample, tell the writer where he has mislaid an im-
portant document, whether he is going to be given
the appointment for which he has applied, or iden-
tify the person who is suspected of persecuting the
writer*
236 KEV FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
By far the largest part of our "psychic" mail deals
with the mere relation of personal experiences. "I
read about your work in such-and-such magazine.
I thought you would be interested in an experi-
ence I once had," and the stories follow: They come
from all over the country in almost every maiL
The story usually bears directly upon our work in
that the capacities for which we are testing would
have to be assumed to explain the occurrence.
Such letters are always acknowledged and com-
mented upon so far as may be possible. The writers
are in almost all cases deeply impressed by the ex-
periences and write with a ring of sincerity that one
feels is beyond question. It is not difficult to recog-
nize from the first few lines the kind of story any
particular one is going to be, and we can almost
always predict the outcome. Familiarity with these
experiences is worth while and, though it is not
humanly possible for one person to read all of them
carefully, I should not want these writers to dis-
continue sending in their experiences* And when a
polite inquiry is submitted as to whether we like to
have such instances sent to us, we always answer in
the affirmative.
Someday perhaps our files of this sort of mate-
rial will be utilized in some research of a classified-
tory or analytical nature* In the meantime they
serve to keep us here in the laboratory aKve to the
vivid actual experiences of people outside our
walls, experiences which seem to be related to the
THE MAILSAG 237
principles for which we are making tests. Perhaps
they will keep us from becoming narrow in our
concept of the problems. Perhaps in these experi-
ences may come suggestions as to what to try to
find. We cannot, of course, accept them as evi-
dence, although to say this is not to cast doubt
upon the veracity of the writers in any case. These
letters comprise a great bulk of suggestive material.
Some of our best suggestions for further work
have come through the mail. Indeed, some able
and experienced correspondents have given us their
attention and the benefit of their judgment un-
sparingly. We have in our files dozens of good ideas
or suggestions waiting for the time when we can
secure a laboratory staff adequate to follow them
up. These suggestions would involve too much de-
tailed explanation and technical discussion to out-
line here. But there are certain general questions
that come repeatedly, and we shall doubtless re-
ceive these very same questions by the dozen from
readers of this book if they are not covered here.
"Why do you not vary your technique?** is one of
these common questions. It would be more inter-
esting, the writer continues, if we were to use other
objects besides cards and not adhere through thou-
sands of trials to our monotonous pluses, circles,
waves, and so forth. This must be very uninterest-
238 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
ing to the subject, they say, whereas if we were to
use photographs, objects, drawings, or material rich
in emotional association the subject would do much
better because of his greater interest.
Our usual reply is that variety in the test mate-
rial would have many points in its favor and that
certain experiments will eventually be made to
analyze its effect. Earlier experimenters did vary
their material. But we have in mind certain objec-
tions that would not be met in this way. We want
to find out the nature of this process, the condi-
tions under which it succeeds, and so on. The re-
search could furnish effective comparisons only, In
the main, by adhering to the same material. As a
matter of fact, we do make certain departures,
but only for specific ends.
Furthermore, it is not the object itself that
creates interest in the tests; it is the goal the sub-
ject has in calling the object, and our subjects do
become very much interested in calling the cards,
so much so that one of them working alone called
18?,OOQ, with in some cases as many as 5,000 in
one day. The cards themselves arc not objects of
interest any more than the letters and figures on
a ten-dollar bill are themselves the objects of in-
terest. The symbols, as the figures, merely serve a
purpose. It is die purpose that wo are interested in.
The subject calls the cards because he wants to
make a score. It might only distract him if there
were faces of movie stars or baseball players on
THE MAILBAG 239
the cards. That is something to be investigated by
later experiment.
Finally, this rigid adherence to our simple test
materials cannot be fully justified without a com-
plete account of our whole research program,
which is out of the question in a letter. In fact, it
is difficult to make it adequately clear even in an
entire book. But those who are close to the work
itself do not in general urge us to any appreciable
departure from our five forms.
Along with this question of variety in the cards
comes one closely associated: "Can anything but
your symbols be transmitted? What about emo-
tions? Can a person reliably tell when someone is
staring at him? Can anyone be forced to do some-
thing through telepathic influence by another?"
To such questions, which arc usually good ones
in a way, the answer has to be: "These are some-
what aside from the main trend of our present
research. We cannot cut too wide a swath. These
questions should be answered in a lateral expan-
sion of our research which we hope someday to
be able to secure by increasing our resources/*
Wherever there appears to be any likelihood that
the writer himself is capable of competent investi-
gation we urge that he undertake a study himself*
at least of preliminary character. It must not be
thought that we expect to get full-fledged scien-
tific developments from everybody to whom we
sead a pack of cards or whom we urge to investi-
240 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
gate. Investigation along such simple lines as these
does no one any harm, is commonly of good
entertainment value, and is the best way of answer-
ing many questions, as well as, wherever it is pos-
sible, developing powers of observation. From such
amateur beginners in investigation mature scien-
tists may develop in this work as they have done
in the past in astronomy, geology, radio-physics,
and other fields of interest.
Among the letters are many suggesting tricks we
might play on the subject. The writers apparently
believe this to be the best way to find out what
is really going on in the subject's mind. One of
the tricks most often suggested is that of slipping
in a blank deck of cards without the subject's
knowledge; or substituting an altered deck, put-
ting in ten circles, say, and leaving out all the
stars. Some of these correspondents suggest that a
stacked deck be used, with all the symbols of one
kind grouped together. Such suggestions are usu-
ally well meant, even though they are not, for
different reasons, useful in our studies. In the first
place, we have from the beginning followed the
principle of not attempting to deceive the subject.
To do so might well undermine his confidence, and
the whole procedure requires confidence and the
best of personal relations. When it Is argued that
THE MAILBAG 241
of course the subject need not be told, the answer
is that this is begging the question. If the subject
possesses ESP capacity he may very well catch on
to what we were doing without being told or
he might be affected by realizing that something
is wrong without knowing exactly what it is. We
cannot afford to take a chance of this kind.
Furthermore, there is no need to do so. The basic
purpose of these suggestions is to find out whether
the subject is really doing ESP or whether the re-
sults are merely chance coincidence. To such writ-
ers we submit that, if a subject's calling a pack of
25 cards correctly is not sufficient evidence, recog-
nizing that a blank pack was blank would cer-
tainly not be, and no one would be convinced by
such a case. If the subject were told that there
might be a blank pack of cards, or that one out
of every two decks might be blank, then the
chances on these would simply be 1 in 2 and suc-
cess or failure would mean no more than succeed-
ing or failing in calling circles or pluses.
Altering the deck or stacking the deck again
would simply be to test clairvoyance in a slightly
different way. But no one has shown that this way
would be in any respect superior. Once or twice,
it is true, accidentally stacked cards have been used.
Two new packs were once picked up and called
without the experimenter's knowing that the cards
had not been shuffled and the original grouping
broken up. The particular subject made good
242 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
scores on these stacked decks as good as he had
been making on the usual shuffled ones. But what
was proved by that? Nothing, so far as we can see.
But even when we disagree with a suggestion we
appreciate the spirit in which it is offered. It makes
no difference if the suggestion be made in a harshly
critical way. Entirely apart from considerations of
courtesy, we have to remember that if we are to
be saved from error we need criticism even more
than we need encouragement.
On another question we have a good many letters,
some pointing in one direction and some in the
other. They are on a problem that docs have two
good sides* One group urges us to have our sub-
jects go slow and concentrate on images, try to
develop introspection, and find out in that way
what ESP is all about. The group on the other side
takes the view that we would do much better to
speed up the process, enabling and encouraging the
subject to go at his best gait in order, the argument
goes, to get in as many hits as he possibly can when
he is having a lucky streak or a favorable mood*
The first side points to Bender's work, reviewed in
an earlier chapter, and his fruitful study of images
and introspective reports* Psychologists, in partic-
ular, urge this way of proceeding* From the very
beginning, indeed, they have been after us for more
THE MAILBAG 243
introspective data. The other group wants us to
develop the performance and concentrate on get-
ting better scores, and some of them suggest that
motorizing and automatizing the response will
conduce favorably to that end after the manner of
TyrrelPs machine which has been described.
To both views we say, of course, that we want
to do just what each urges. Both hold an excellent
point of view and there is no reason why work on
both should not be promoted as actively as pos-
sible. All of us at our laboratory being, however,
either active college teachers or graduate students,
we find it impossible to do everything we would
like to do, at least as things are at present. The
fact that many such suggestions lie untried from
year to year may seem discouraging to those corre-
spondents who do not have the dozens of other sug-
gestions and the whole research plan in mind.
We recently received a letter from an eminent
English professor of the physical sciences with
those really distinguishing initials, F.R.S., Fellow
of the Royal Society, after his name who had
earlier written very emphatically telling us just
what we should do in order to make our work
sound* A year went by after the first letter andl
a paper came out from this laboratory in published
form; it had been written about two years earlier
but held up in press. The professor read it. He saw
no mention of his suggestion. He wrote us in sharp
tones to the effect that he could only conclude that
244 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
we had tried out his suggestions and, having failed
to secure good results with them, had omitted the
whole thing.
Another professor of one of the physical sciences
in an American college wrote recently that he, too,
had had a similar attitude. But, having written me
his criticism, he set to work to try his hand at the
tests themselves. His lowest score was above 5 and
his highest 18, with an average above 10* He then
wrote that he had, in spite of his difficulty, changed
his mind. Naturally we like that kind of letter
better than the first professorV But they all add
to the zest of our explorations*
8
One of the most persistent lines o suggestion
that we get from physicists, engineers, and those
of like mind urges us to try setting up certain phys-
ical barriers substances that bar out waves and
energies of various kinds. These students of physi-
cal science want to get at the matter by a series of
elimination tests. Usually they have made out an
orderly, systematic plan of attack. It is a pleasure
to read them; one sees the working of first-rate in-
tellects.
In our replies to this kind of suggestion we ask,
first, "What is the object of screening?" Invari-
ably the answer is, "To eliminate radiation/* The
waves to be eliminated arc, of course, electromag-
THE MAILBAG 245
netic. Usually the final step proposed by these
writers includes an electric circuit screen which
will intercept all radiation* We then set to work
to summarize the evidence against wave theories,
because, we explain, if we have adequate evidence
to determine the conclusion of this research be-
forehand, it will save an enormous amount of time
and expense to avoid having to do it. Our letters
on this topic often end: "However, it would be
advisable for someone to try just this approach.
Are you in a position to do so? We are hoping, of
course, that this will eventually be done, but it has
not been to date/* "Whether our arguments dissuade
the writers from doing the work, or whether they
would not have done it in any case, we do not know.
Nevertheless, I really do hope there is someone who
will not be convinced without an actual research
and will someday carry out this series of explora-
tions. We may find something that was not antic-
ipated, and in any case it will give us a good answer
to that oft-repeated question. We should regret,
however, anything that would discourage sugges-
tions coming from these inventive, open minds
which have been writing us from physical labora-
tories, research laboratories, industrial companies,
and other places.
Now and again we receive requests worded some-
thing like this: "Could you arrange a demonstration
of your good subjects? I could get up a com-*
mittec of scientists to come down and witness them
246 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
at work/* Or "Could you not arrange to have one
of your good subjects work with a one-way screen
and invite a number of scientists, whom I should
like to specify, to appear behind the screen and wit-
ness them perform? The testimony of these scien-
tists would be of great value to your work if the
results justified their testimony/* Or c
*Could you
send one or two of your best subjects up to this
university for demonstration purposes over some
week end?"
In answer to such questions we have to explain
that the performance of these subjects is for them
a delicate matter* "Would you expect, if we had
a young poet here, that we could send him tip to
your university to write some poems for you while
your committee sat staring fixedly at him to see that
he did not slip them from one of his pockets? Many
students are unable to do themselves justice in ex-
aminations in which they are supervised by staring
professors, even in cases where all they need to do
is simply to recall what they have memorized* The
process of ESP is apparently even more easily inter-
fered with than one like memory, and we have to
grant it its own conditions if we want to find it
operating/* So we answer and hope the explanation
is sufficient. But it is dangerous to ask for any special
terms or concessions. The critic is too prone to say,
"Aha, alibi!"
We often add, too, that science has never been
advanced by the committee method* Mesmer had
OPEN MATCHING
THE MAELBAG 247
his committees, with our own broad-minded Ben-
jamin Franklin on one of them at that, but they
served only to drive him into exile. One could not
ask a larger committee than the Royal Society
which had earlier sat in judgment on Franklin's
electricity experiments. The fact that it at one time
rejected his work and refused him membership had
little to do with the ultimate merit of the case. How
many good men have been rejected and mistreated
by the French Academy, that great committee of
France's most learned and eminent men?
No, indeed, the history of science advises us to
beware of research by committee. Our plan for the
advancement of the subject has been, rather, to
encourage young open-minded men to take up the
task of finding out for themselves. One good piece
of work of a confirmatory nature done in another
laboratory is worth more to the scientific public
than the mere testimony of a committee of the most
eminent scientists at large.
Now and then the mail brings us questions about
the bearing of our work upon the immortality of
the soul, the survival of personality. Such questions
have often come from people who give a recent
bereavement as their reason for asking. I wish with
all my heart that we could give a scientific reply
to these letters, that we could answer the real ques-
248 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
tion that is in the minds and hearts of the writers:
Does the individual personality continue after
death? Even an answer in the negative would be
better than none. It would be at least solid fact
from which future thinking could take a clear-cut
orientation. But as yet we have been unable to
approach that problem in our research. Perhaps it
does lie ahead of us in this exploration* We have
no intention of shying away from it if it does, and
if there is any way of dealing with it by sound
scientific method and provided there is any evi-
dence to lay hold of*
It is true that some men of scientific standing,
both in the past and in the present, have come to
believe in the personal survival of man beyond
death. But this is no proof that immortality has any
scientific verification. The scientists who have be-
lieved in it have largely done so out of conviction
by simple faith, philosophic argument, or the evi-
dence from mediumship. Those of them who have
reached their opinion on the basts of work with
mediums have not demonstrated their case for
science itself9 and I feel that they would agree with
me in admitting the fact, In part they have been
persuaded by personal insights not easily generaliz-
able for others* Whether or not they arc right, their
case for belief in life after death Is not a genera!
scientific one.
What we have so far found in the ESP research
would be at least favorable to the possibility of
THE MAILBAG 249
survival of personality after death. That is, such
survival would naturally entail existence without
bodily sense organs, nervous system, and brain. The
phenomenon of telepathic perception might afford
a theoretical basis for such communion as may be
supposed to obtain in such a state. If knowledge of
the world about us were possible to a surviving
personality, it would be so only through extra-
sensory perception of objects, which would be clair-
voyance. And so on. Only if minds in general
normal minds possess these capacities of extra-
sensory perception could they possibly exist
without the senses and without the sensory organs.
To that extent these correspondents may feel that
our work has at least a slight bearing on their prob-
lems. But possibility is far from probability.
Such letters as these keep us alive to the old but
ever vital problem of immortality, which all men
at some time face and which is one of the most im-
portant and most frequently asked of humanity's
questions. But there is much preliminary work to
be done, a great deal of exploration into the nature
of man's capacities, before we can safely come to
grips with this haunting question* And while our
strongest feelings urge tis to haste, it would be at
the sacrifice of all that science has learned through-
out its centuries if we were to go ahead too fast, at
the expense of safety* Too often before have men
sought to answer this question prematurely and
inadequately.
250 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
10
In many respects the most gratifying letters of
all are those from people who want to work with
us in one way or another. We have had a sizable
number of requests for an opportunity to work in
our laboratory though sometimes the writers put
it another way and offer us their services. The spirit
behind letters of this sort is encouraging, but we
have to reply in the negative most of the time, on
the grounds of the correspondent's unfitness for
the work. We explain that no one can be invited
to conduct research in the laboratory at Duke who
has not first independently demonstrated his ca-
pacity for it by actual research along parapsycho-
logical lines in some other place.
And even for those who qualify on this point it
is not always possible for us to accede to the request,
Our own schedule of research is heavy* and al-
though our laboratory facilities ha\*e been greatly
expanded in the last seven years, both m physical
space and in fellowship provisions, there are still
limitations. The time and energies of the two full-
time and four part-time (graduate student) mem-
bers of the parapsychology staff who work with me
are not inexhaustible* We feel, moreover, that if
the correspondent is connected with the academic
world he can be of greater service by working not
at Duke but in his own college or university. The
need for independent centers of research is great,
THE MAKJBAG 251
and the time has come to divide the work and avoid
any danger of overconcentration in one place.
Many of the people who want to experiment
with ESP are not academic, and in the early years
of our work the majority were either laymen or
professional men unconnected with any college* In-
terest in our work spread next to undergraduate
students in other colleges, and ultimately to psy-
chologists on the staffs of universities and colleges
in many parts of the country. For this tendency we
are most grateful because it multiplies the rate of
progress into the field of extra-sensory perception.
When we received letters from laymen, or from
doctors (who seem as a class to be unusually inter-
ested in what we are doing) or schoolteachers or
ministers in which the writers expressed a desire to
experiment, we were glad to co-operate even If the
correspondents in some cases wrote with a healthy
skepticism* Hundreds and hundreds of decks of
cards and mimeographed sheets of instructions for
testing were sent to such people, even though the
increasing extent to which we were supplying these
research materials was a drain on our resources.
This year, fortunately, the fact that the standard
ESP cards (recently improved slightly and of two
types, plain and colored) and a standard record pad
can be secured in the ordinary bookstores and other
places makes it possible for as many laymen to work
on ESP problems as have the desire.
Certainly these lay researches have already con-
252 TsTEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIKD
tributed a great deal to our work, and these letters
of inquiry have often led to the setting up of use-
ful research projects. In most cases they are con-
cerned nowadays with the problems of the nature
of the ESP process, and spring out of such questions
as: "What effect will a certain condition, such as
age, or sex, or state of mind have on ESP scores?"
"Does ESP improve with practice?" "What is the
effect of emotion on the scores?" Work on these
and other points has grown to such an extent that
on outlet had to be found for the findings. That is
why the Journal of Parapsychology was founded
in die spring of 1937. In fact, a recent survey num-
bered about fifty such explorations under way since
1934, of which forty have reached some conclu-
sion. Seven have ended in failure to secure any-
thing but chance averages from their tests, but
thirty-three have produced results indicating the
presence of an extra-chance factor, presumably
ESP* This is enough to indicate how important our
correspondence has been in helping to further the
research, and to indicate that we have had ample
reason to appreciate our increased mail, even though
sometimes it becomes too voluminous to answer
with the care and individual attention it merits.
CHAPTER XV
The Problem of Time
MANY OF THE LETTERS SENT TO US ASK ONE PAR-
ticular kind of question, and perhaps the same prob-
lem has already occurred to some of the readers of
this book* It is such an intricate and important mat-
ter that it deserves a chapter of its own merely to
suggest what we have been doing about it. In the
broadest general terms, the question is: What is
the relationship, if any, between extra-sensory per-
ception and time?
Our correspondents put the point to us in many
different ways: '"Have you tried attempting to pre-
dict the order of the cards as they will be after you
shuffle them?" **Have you ever tested prophecy?'*
"Do you believe clairvoyance can go into the fu-
ture?" "Can your subjects call what the order of
cards was in a deck which has been reshuffled?" "Is
the mind able to overcome the barriers of time as it
has those of space?"
These are intelligent and penetrating questions,
and I wish it were possible to answer them in some
other way than the only one so far permissible.
"Yes," we write to the correspondents who raise
this point, "we have tried to solve the general prob-
254 NEW, FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
lem of time and extra-sensory perception, and we
are still trying. We may be working at the same job
for a long time to come; your question is a vitally
significant one and we want to find an answer to
it, no matter what sort of answer it turns out to
be or how long it takes us to arrive at it. We feel
that it is not too much to say that this may be the
greatest question science has ever investigated, and
we are beginning to think it may also prove the
hardest to solve."
Generally I continue my reply by explaining how
our tests on this problem began and describe the
methods we used at the start- So many people have
been interested in this ancient (if not scientifically
honorable) question that it is only fair to explain
here as much as we can safely affirm about it> but
before I do so a warning is necessary- Many things
about our research into this question of time will
have to be left unsaid for the time being. This is
not in order to create any sense of mystery in the
reader's mind, but because we must be sure of our
conclusions before we express them* And there is
nothing about the entire series of problems con-
cerning this time-condition on ESP on which we
are ready to draw definite conclusions.
It would not be fair to the research and to the
great amount of work already performed to say
that no progress at all has been made* Many steps
forward have been taken, much data has been col-
lected, and more than once we thought the goal
THE PROBLEM OF TIME 255
was within reach. Each time another, if not a higher,
barrier rose up to block our advance. It is essential
to emphasize once again that what we were trying
to do was to find scientific proof that "prophecy"
in the sense of knowledge of future events or pre-
cognition was either a fact or not a fact. We were
aware, of course, that it was also important to es-
tablish the truth or falsity of retrocognition, clair-
voyance into the past.
The story of our four years of ups and downs,
our long running struggle with the complexities of
this research, must wait until we know how it comes
out, but I should like to explain its relationship to
the work presented in this book and to our whole
research, and tell a little of how we came to under-
take it.
A good deal was said in the earlier part of this
book about the debt which the scientific investi-
gation of ESP owes to the anecdotes of psychic ex-
perience, and the possibility of precognition or pre*
visionary ESP is naturally associated with many of
those stories. Surveying them carefully, as we did,
for clues to the nature of the phenomenon we were
investigating, it was impossible to overlook that
element of futurity. A large portion of the inex-
plicable personal experiences appeared to involve a
foresight of the future apparently not to be ex-
plained away by reason, and many people have been
256 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
led to believe that such extra-rational prediction
of events is possible for some persons under some
conditions.
In most respects the stories describing experiences
in which some kind of prophecy or prevision ap-
peared to be manifest were similar to other psychic
anecdotes. I scarcely need to give again examples of
these familiar incidents, but the typical story runs
something like this: A mother has a vivid and alarm-
ing impression of a train wreck. She may be asleep
and see the wreck In a nightmare, or she may have
a waking hallucination, or an intuitive experience*
The impression of the wreck is more or less defi-
nitely associated in her mind with her son (or her
daughter), and perhaps also with some definite
place* such as a tunneL The dream or hallucination
is so powerful that she feels it has a special mean-
ing for her. It turns out later that her son was
actually injured in a wreck at the spot where her
dream assigned it. There are many stories of this
description, and in almost half the cases, roughly,
the dream or impression actually precedes the sub-
stantiating occurrence. In other cases the dream and
the event occur simultaneously* or nearly so*
If one cares to give any credence to these experi-
ences, they suggest that time is riot an important
factor in them. Where unusual knowledge i* some*
how genuinely conveyed it is almost as likely to be
knowledge of the future as of the present: or the
past. To many students of psychology or of science
THE PROBLEM OF TIME 257
in general this very fact might appear sufficient to
warrant dismissing the whole range of such anec-
dotes as absurd and impossible. Yet as I suggested
in Chapter II there can be no harm in investi-
gating whether something lies behind stories of un-
explainable occurrences, provided we proceed in
our examination by careful experiment and with
scientific impartiality.
People who are familiar with the numerous col-
lections of supposedly precognitive experiences will
not be inclined to dismiss the subject lightly, though
they may wisely reserve decision and belief on the
question. There is one particular collection of
precognitive experiences that has awakened wide in-
terest in recent years J. W. Dunne's An Experi-
ment With Time. The anecdotal part of the book
mainly consists of the author's own dream experi-
ences which have turned out, he reports, to be more
or less previsionary. Dunne goes on to say that he
persuaded other people to keep a record of their
dreams, and that when they did so they found many
instances of extra-rational foreknowledge of the
next day's events. Theodore Besterman of the Eng-
lish Society for Psychical Research attempted to re-
peat the observations of this semicxpcrtmental
phase of Dunne's case but without appreciable suc-
cess. Dunne did not think the conditions of Bcstcr-
man's work were entirely the same as those of his
own*
His book presents an interesting and ingenious
258 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
theory to explain precognition, but there is no
reason for our going into it unless and until we find
that prophecy and prophetic dreams are actually
true. Meanwhile, it is clear that some of Dunne's
own experiences can easily be explained by simple
extra-sensory perception. He apparently was un-
willing to accept the possibility of ESP but found
it easier to believe in precognition, and illogical as
that may appear, his anecdotes and the discussions
of them are thought-provoking. They do not, how-
ever, make out the proved, experimental case which
science must demand on so momentous a question*
I am often asked why we at Duke have not fol-
lowed up Dunne's method of keeping a record of
as many dreams as possible and checking on their
accuracy. The reason is that the estimation of suc-
cess or failure is so difficult. It is hard to judge the
hits and the misses in a description of a dream, or
to tell how good a hit is when there is one* In work-
ing with such vague, unclassifiable material as
dreams, and attempting to check them against the
multitudinous events of a day, week, or even year,
there is no way of applying a sound measure of
evaluation, Dunne's method demands reliance upon
someone's general judgment on points of correct*
ness and value, and this is too uncertain a criterion
even for questions less important than this one.
Either precognition must be tested by a clear-cut
experimental procedure, with unambiguous logic,
or it must remain a relatively unsolved problem.
THE PROBLEM OF TIME 259
More impressive than Dunne's work, at least to
me, are such collections as those of Mr. H. F. Salt-
marsh, published by the English Society for Psychi-
cal Research, and L'Avenir et la Premonition by the
late Professor Charles Richet,, a widely respected
physiologist. Saltmarsh's clarification and analysis,
in particular, compel a certain respect for his evi-
dence. The cases he cites were carefully selected
from a larger number and come only from repu-
table witnesses and reporters. Each is backed by cor-
roboratory reports. In these cases Saltmarsh found
a degree of internal consistency which he tried to
evaluate, and he was himself convinced that pre-
cognition was the only adequate explanation.
Only by doubting the authenticity of the cases
which Saltmarsh has compiled can the reader ques-
tion his conclusion. But when I recall the high mor-
tality of truth in general testimony, when 6? per
cent is a liberal figure to assign to the accuracy of
the average witness, I am compelled to hold out to
the bitter end against any such method of estab-
lishing precognition. There must be an experimen-
tal test of the question, and as rigorous a one as
we can possibly devise.
Dunne, Richet, and Saltmarsh have raised the
question of prophecy, but its solution still awaits
experimental verification. The evidence based on
260 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
psychic anecdotes suggests that time Is no limitation
to spontaneous experiences of various sorts. How
does this suggestion coincide with the results of our
work at Duke and with the accepted theories of
space, matter and energy?
The distance tests gave evidence that space is not
a limiting condition on the ESP ability. When we
stop to think that time and space go inseparably
together in every known, measurable event in
nature, that we even speak in science of our '"space-
time continuum," it looks as if ESP should be as
free of limitation by time as it is by space. Jtob&Jft
a spatial system is to be in z temporal system as well,
To be out of a spatial system, it appears logical to
suppose, would entail being out of a temporal sys-
tem. And if, indeed, mind can escape from temporal
limits it would, of course, be able to go forward to
future events or back to past ones.
The very conception of "getting out of time"
and still continuing to exist gets quickly beyond an
easy understanding or explanation. So, also, does
precognition of an "as yet unhappened" event*
however logical the argument from the conquest of
space by ESP makes its appear. True, many concepts
of modern physics rest solely on logical considera-
tions of this general sort, but while ! find the logic
unassailable, and while it leads to the same conclu-
sion as do the anecdotes, neither stories nor logic are
as valid to me as experiments, and I thai! adhere to
THE PROBLEM OF TIME 261
my determination not to accept or reject precogni-
tion until actual tests have rendered the verdict, if,
indeed, they ever do.
When we began our experiments on precogni-
tion, or previsionary clairvoyance, I thought the
experimentation would be simple. "We had what
seemed to be a good working technique based on
the use of the cards. All we had to do was to ask a
subject to call the cards as they would be at some
point in the future. It seemed to us that after the
most exhaustive research we should be able to de-
vise, either the scores of our subjects* tests woxtld
exhibit significance, in which case ESP would
demojistrably have conquered time, or they would
not, in which case we should have arrived at a valu-
able and important negative conclusion. So we
wasted no time in turning some of our highest scor-
ing subjects to this new venture in exploration.
They were asked to call the order of the cards as
they would be after shuffling. Then the deck was
shuffled according to specifications, either a given
number of times, or in a mechanical shuffler, or for
a fixed length of time. The actual order of the deck,
after the shuffling was over, was checked against
the calls the subject had made beforehand*
This approach to the problem of the penetra-
bility of the future was a simple one and grew
naturally out of the research in extra-sensory per-
ception already described in this book* It dealt with
262 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIXD
just one more of a long series of conditions under
which ESP had been tested* It seemed likely that
there would be no more difficulty in this project
than in a test of any other of a dozen methods and
variations made through the seven years of active
pursuit of ESP problems.
Obviously, had the attempt so hopefully begun
nearly four years ago been either a flat failure or a
brilliant success there would be no occasion for the
restraint I am now exercising in this discussion. But
the deceptive simplicity of the job at the start gave
place in time to an almost bewildering complexity
of problems that we are only now finding a way to
overcome.
Can we ever control these time experiments suffi-
ciently to prove anything? Nobody before us had
excluded clairvoyance from telepathy tests, We
tUougSt we did that, but we have not adequately
excluded possible precognition from all our tests
for clairvoyance. The results could be due to pre-
cognitive telepathy* The subject might be looking
ahead to the checkup. Our telepathy tests coulJ be
due to precognitivc clairvoyance* So it goes. What
have we? How far shall we look ahead, suppose
these mere logical possibilities, and handle our tests
so as to anticipate all conceivable future criticisms
no matter how absurd they seem to us now? If we
do conjure tip all the mere possibilities, will we
ever get anywhere? On the other hand, how can
THE PROBLEM OF TIME 263
we come out with a claim to have proved the occur-
rence of precognition, and leave untested logical
though unsubstantiated alternatives to endanger
our conclusions? This is the dilemma we have be-
fore us*
All our precognition thus far is based on card
work. We call the cards as they will be, predicting
an order. These calls are recorded. Then investiga-
tors cut or shuffle the pack, and finally check the
cards against the calls. If we attempt to avoid pre-
cognitive telepathy by having the subject shuffle
and cut the cards himself, and even do the actual
checking, we are still not out of the woods. If by
unconscious clairvoyance a subject can cut a pack
so as to favor the recorded calls or, in shuffling, can
place the cards by clairvoyant knowledge in a bet-
ter position in the pack, then he would score above
chance average. In this way, after making a proph-
ecy he might, even unintentionally, fix the cards
clairvoyantly so as to make it come true* The idea
may seem silly at first, but it is a most serious dis-
turbance to the research. Down goes our precogni-
tion "house of cards" in what we might call a
"psychic shuffle." What use to say that it seems in-
cffeaible to get a subject to know the whole pack
by clairvoyance when one card at a time seems hard
enough? Practically incredible, yes, but logically
possible on the strength of our own work! The
question is, how far shall we go in taking these
264 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
logical possibilities seriously? Will we ever get any-
where if we do, and can we ever be sure if we don't?
4
The same difficulties which apply to the research
on precognition have arisen in our work on the com-
panion problem of retrocognition, or extra-sensory
perception of things in the past. Not as much has
been said about this question so far, and probably
it is not as generally exciting and spectacular as the
idea of penetrating the future* Yet it is clearly
a necessary part of the experimentation on the rela-
tion of ESP to time.
Exactly the same series of logical arguments that
led us to predict that we should find evidence of
precognition in our card tests applied with equal
force to the probability of extra-sensory perception
of the unrecorded past. We believed* too, that if
we did find evidence that time was no barrier to
ESP, many people would be more willing to accept
a demonstration based on rctrocognition and find
it easier, on the whole, to understand.
Curiously enough, it is harder to investigate
retrocognition than precognition* Really crucial
tests, ones which will eliminate ail possibility, for
example, of the subject's actually perceiving the
record against which his calls will ultimately be
checked instead of the past order of the cards, are
difficult to devise. There are some of us, in fact, who
THE PROBLEM OF TIME 26?
fear that the hypothesis of retrocognition may
prove truly untestable, but it would be scientifically
rash to say so definitely at the present stage of our
work.
y
The great trouble in working with problems of
the mind is that it is hard to draw sharp lines and
keep each thing we want to work with in its own
separate test tube, as it were. For example, it took
a long time in the history of ESP research before
telepathy and clairvoyance were experimentally
separated* Now, suppose someone asks, as one of
my friends did, how we know that the subject in
ordinary clairvoyance tests does not actually use
precognitive telepathy, "previsioning" from the
mind of the experimenter the order of the symbols
when the latter ultimately looks at them in record-
ing and checking the results. My friend (like Mr.
Dunne) finds it easier to suppose both precognition
and telepathy than clairvoyance and she can find
some other way of interpreting almost ail our evi-
dence on clairvoyance, in line with her favorite
theory* Almost, but not quite, all of it. It requires
a very special experiment indeed to escape her ob-
jection, and though it has been performed, it has
not yet been published in scientific form, and I shall
therefore not go into it here.
I mention this problem merely to illustrate on a
simpler case what type of trouble we have in greater
measure when we tackle precognition. One elusive
266 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
alternative interpretation after another turns up as
at least a logical possibility. As in the case just men-
tioned, we do not need to believe the other interpre-
tation to be the true one, or even very reasonable;
if it is barely possible we must as scientists recognise
it and disprove or prove its validity*
The place of the mind in time or the place of
time in the mind, to put it another way cannot yet
be represented as demonstrated by any procedure
which we and other research workers have been
able to devise beyond all possibility of an alternative
explanation. In other words, we are not ready to
draw conclusions as to whether ESP is limited by
time or not*
The universe has been guarding some of its secrets
from man's understanding for thousands and thou-
sands of years. We believed at the start that our ap-
proach to the problem of prevision was a good one*
and in spite of four years of alternate frustration
and promise we are still far from discouraged. It
may, of course, happen that the incense critical
analysis which we have tried to give our work at
every step thus far will find fatal flaws in expert*
incnts which even at this moment suggest a final
solution. To feel convinced either way beforehand
is to violate the spirit of science*
CHAPTER XVI
From Now On
THIS CHAPTER IS A FINAL ONE ONLY IN THE SENSE
that it is the last one in the book. It is not a stopping
place. The research about which I have been writ-
ing has not halted; we continue to test for pos-
sible subjects, find new ones able to score well, and
capable workers go on being drawn into the inves-
tigation. In most cases they are finding in their own
work the same order of success reported in these
pages. But this story of the work at Duke has now
covered everything that has been tested according
to academic custom by presentation in scientific
publications, and here is, therefore, a logical place
to pause.
It should not, however, be regarded as a place to
present conclusions. Those should be reached only at
the safest possible time after they are no longer
needed* When conclusions are forced upon us by
the results of experiments designed to bring them
or their contraries to crucial issue we can begin to
speak of them with assurance and safety* And
though we have been carrying on our investigation
for a long time, and in spite of our continuing en-
thusiasm based on the progress we have made so
267
268 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
far, there are few and not very secure conclusions
to be drawn.
Instead, looking back across the intervening
chapters to the one which opened this book, to the
initial statement of the goal, it is best to realign
ourselves with its intent. In that light we can esti-
mate our present position and consider the course
for the future*
2
The general purpose of our research was de-
scribed in Chapter I. It was to find out, if we
could, something that would enable us to place the
mind of man in a definite relation to the world of
law and causation which our senses and our sciences
have represented to us*
"What is the human mind?** we asked, as men
have been asking for centuries. We posed the ques-
tion as still the most fundamental in modern psy-
chology if not in life itself* It seemed possible to find
a new approach to this question by re-examining
and investigating an ancient and accepted doctrine
of our science the belief that nothing can enter
the mind except through the gateways of the recog-
nized senses. This psychological dogma had become,
we pointed out, an old and almost undisputed fron-
tier of the mind, one that has had much to do with
shaping the general views of its nature which we
hold today.
The research itself represents a critical testing
FROM NOW ON 269
of this dogma of the inviolability of the mind's
sensory frontier. If we could find any extra-sensory
avenue to knowledge, not only would that concept
cease to be die circumscribing law of mind it was
once considered, but a new frontier, a further hori-
zon would be established*
That new frontier has now been established un-
less all of us who have been exploring it by years of
testing and many hundreds of thousands of trials
have been completely and continuingly self-deluded
or incompetent, not only at the Duke laboratory
but elsewhere as well. Either delusion is the explana-
tion of our results or else we have found proof that
the mind of man does indeed have an extra-sensory
way of perceiving, and hence, whether we like it or
not, the old frontier must go the way of Newtonian
mechanics in the light of relativity.
The case is as strong as the evidence, and no
stronger. The reader must judge that strength
against his own background and criteria of evi-
dence. If the canpns of scientific judgment by
which he reaches a decision are too high for the ex**
perimencal data to prove conclusive for him, then
he must wait in suspended judgment for an ulti-
mate answer to die questions we set out to investi-
gate. He will hardly be able to decide that ESP does
not occur since there has never been and could not
well be any downright proof that perception be-
yond the senses does not occur. Even if all the trials
we made to find proof of ESP had been failures, one
270 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
might protest that perhaps the conditions for find-
ing it were not right. And this would be more than
sheer technical haggling in the case of any montal
phenomenon of an extremely weak and delicate
character. But when the large majority of the tests
performed to repeat our original ESP work coniirm
our findings and demonstrate that the senses are not
the only channels of cognition this supposition need
not be considered. To me it seems most unlikely that
anyone with a thorough knowledge of what we have
done in the research will be able to reject its results
completely*
3
What recognition of ESP may mean when it is
fully realized is not possible to say or desirable to
conjecture. Everyone will realize without long re-
flection that its bearing is not upon psychology
alone, or even science as a whole* It can scarcely
fail to have an immense influence on the life of both
individuals and groups* But what influence? What
bearings? Who at this point would "rush in** to say?
We need only read the premature judgments that
accompanied earlier scientific discoveries and inven-
tions to seal our lips against the impulse to predict.
Stilly there is nothing to prevent the reader him**
self from reflecting over the question of KSP and
its possible meaning for his own life, his profession,
his social world. I see nothing wrong with his sup-
posing that as research continues we way find out
FROM NOW ON 271
how to control the process and turn It to proper
uses, to educational and social advantage, to per-
sonal, economic, and scientific enterprise to al-
most whatever you will But these speculations must
be the reader's own. I do not say they never occur
in my own thinking. But my belief is that this kind
of speculation can wait, and had better wait for the
research to catch up with it.
We who are going ahead with the investigation
require no greater stimulus than the work itself
provides* No specific application is necessary to en-
courage our efforts, and more enthusiasm for the
work could hardly help it, since all of us already find
it an exciting and rewarding enterprise* There is
even sometimes danger in our anticipating its Im-
plications too far in advance of the test results, be-
cause some of these bearings quickly evoke our own
strongest interests and deepest yearnings. And
finally the world at large may all too quickly con-
vert half-proved truth into the whole belief it nat-
urally wants*
In these final paragraphs, then, though I realize
that many of the people who read this book may be
looking for some word as to what we think the
research may lead to, and are expecting the last
chapter to enlarge upon what progress has been
made, I am practicing with regret die advice I so
often Have dealt out to others by way of die mail-
bag; In a word, to stick to the tests and let applica-
tions and jnwrpretations wait. They will be all the
272 NEW FRONTIERS OP THE MIND
better when we are forced to them by the very
weight of the evidence*
Above all, I would be reluctant to aid and abet
the many extra-academic cults and schools of
thought and belief by any unwise remark as to the
meaning of these experiments. I realize with some
misgivings that the research is already looming large
in the teachings of these groups. The well-estab-
lished facts are theirs and welcome. I shrink only
when I consider that the things which may be made
the most of by some of these orders and societies
may be just what is least established or only men-
tioned as a hypothesis.
It might be expected from the history of psy-
chology (which is so largely the rise and fall of
academic schools of thought) that the growth of
ESP research and discussion will at length evolve a
new school or branch of psychological thought* 1
should regard this as an incomparably pernicious
outcome* There is, I believe, more than a mere play
of words in the opinion that psychology will never
become a mature science until its school days are
oven The successful avoidance of this outcome for
ESP lies only in keeping clear of hasty intcrpreu-
tion and sticking close to the facts*
To the explorer who is moving forward through
these problems the situation is a happy one and the
FROM NOW ON 273
outlook for the future highly alluring. He is less
concerned with what has already been done than he
is with the completion of the full scientific explora-
tion of ESP. What is this newly found process? To
say it is not sensory is not to say what it is, and not
even to establish a clearly defined negative, because
sensory experience itself, familiar though it is, still
represents a great gap in our understanding.
A phenomenon is understood, in science and any-
where else, by its relations within itself and to the
rest of the body of knowledge, and the first great job
ahead is that of finding out all about ESP, discover-
ing all possible relations it holds to other mental,
bodily, and external processes. By discovering what
ESP links up with, what helps it, what interferes
with it, and where and how to find it and control it,
we hope eventually to win sufficient mastery of this
unusual power of mind to bring it wholly within
the scope of science. Then, I believe, is the time to
consider applications when they are demonstrable,
and when the natural disposition of skeptics to
ridicule can have no provocation.
Deeply as I am involved in the earnest search for
the nature of ESP, for the secret of its control, for
the place it fits into the mind its scope, its power,
and its development my devotion to this is
divided* Still more attractive to me, I confess, per-
haps against ray better judgment, is what may lie
beyond ESP* Perhaps it is the frontiersman's dis-
position conceivably resident in many of us that
274 NEW FRONTIERS OF THE MIND
makes the appeal of the problems that lie over the
next barrier so great.
Immediately beyond ESP He the great living
problems of time, precognition, and retrocognkion.
Can mind free itself from time in ESP as it does
from space? Logically, as we saw in the preceding
chapter, it should be expected to do so. But if pre-
cognition should occur, it would raise more ques-
tions of the profoundest sort about the nature of
the universe than I should care to contemplate.
Again, then, let us say with that great contributor
to both science and its methods, Sir Isaac Newton,
"Let hypotheses alone until the facts require them/*
I, for one, cannot let these great challenging prob-
lems alone, but I reaffirm here my belief in sharp
restraint of speculation beyond the range of experi-
mental test*
Even a prudent and restrained logical glimpse
beyond ESP itself reveals one great problem beyond
another, like giant peaks that silently challenge
ascent. I should not want to name these master
problems that lie so far beyond, for they may not be
realities. No matter* The lure is there. If from these
future adventures we attain an evidential eminence
from which still further frontiers of die mind of
man are visible, who would prefer to have stood
with Balboa on a peak in Darien for that initial sight
of a new ocean or even on the bow of the &**i/<*
Maria for the first happy glimpse of the outlines of
a new world!
THE END
ESP TEST CARDS AND SCORE PAD
TWO DIFFERENT PACKS OF ESP TEST CARDS ARE NOW
PUBLICLY AVAILABLE, AS WELL AS A SCORE PAD ON ,
WHICH TO NOTE DOWN CARD CALLS AND SCORNS,
EACH PACK CONSISTS OF Z$ CARDS, ? EACH OK THE ?
SYMBOLS PICTURED.
PACK I (PLAIN ESP TEST CARDS) is SUITABLE FOR
MOST TESTS. TUB SYMBOLS OF ALL 5 "SUITS** ARK
PRINTED IN BLACK ON A WHITE BACKGROUND. I
PACK II (COLOR ESP TOST CARDS) is SUITABLE FOR :
ALL TESTS, THE BACKGROUND OF THE CARDS IN THIS
PACK, WHICH IS NOT ILLUSTRATED HERE, IS BLACK, AND |
EACH SYMBOL IS PRINTED IN A DIFFERENT COLOR: THE \
PLUS IN USD* THE WAVES IN BLUE, THE STAR IN GREEN,
ADDITIONAL READING
The reader who may be interested in examining
further material on ESP is referred to the follow-
ing books and periodicals:
Extra-Sensory Perception, by J. B. Rhine (Foreword by
Professor William McDougall; Introduction by Dr. W, F.
Prince). 169 pp. Illustrated. Boston: Bruce Humphries,
Handbook for ESP Tests, 'A, arranged and edited by C.
E. Stuart and J. G. Pratt (Preface by J. B. Rhine) . Illustrated*
New York: Farrar & Rinehart, Inc., 1537*
Journal of Parapsychology, The (quarterly), Duke Uni-
versity Press, Durham, N. C. (Published on the first days of
March, June, September, December*) Illustrated.
Earlier reports of various investigations into
extra-sensory phenomena will be found in the
Proceedings of the English Society for Psychical
Research (London), and in Bulletin XVI of the
Boston Society for Psychic Research*
Two popular accounts of interest are:
Mental Radio, by Upton Sinclair (Introduction by Professor
William McDougall). 239 pp* Illustrated Pasadena, Calif.:
Upton Sinclair, 1930*
T&tefwt&y and Clairvoyance* by Rudolf Tischncr (Trans*
latton by W* D. Hutchinson; Introduction by E. J. Ding-wall).
226 pp. New York: Harcourt, Brace Co., Inc.,
