{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__lewis___mental_poisoning.pdf","mytitle":"Mental Poisoning","mylang":"de"}
|©ental Poteomng
DR. H. SPENCER LEWIS, P h . D.
Author of
“Mansions of the Soul,” “The Symbolic
Prophecy of the Great Pyramid," "A
Thousand Years of Yesterdays,” “Self
Mastery and Fate,” etc.
SUPREME GRAND LODGE OF AMORC
Printing and Publishing Department
San Jose, California
BY
B081CRUCIAN LIBRARY
VOLUME XVII
Piret Edition
Copyright, 1937
by AMORC
Printed and Bound in U. S. A. by
THE ROSICRUCIAN PRESS, LTD.
San Jose. California
DEDICATION
V
To the thousands of unfortunate men and
women who have fallen prey to the
poisoned darts of subtle, sordid,
destructive suggestions. May this
work be the means of making
thousands of other humans
immune to this noxious
influence.
V
THE ROSICRUCIAN LIBRARY
V V V
VOLUME
I. Rosicrucian Questions and Answers with Complete
History of the Order.
II. Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business.
III. The Mystical Life of Jesus.
IV. The Secret Doctrines of Jesus.
V. “Unto Thee I Grant."
(Secret Teachings of Tibet.)
VI. A Thousand Years of Yesterdays.
(A Revelation of Reincarnation.)
VII. Self Mastery and Fate with the Cycles of Life.
(A Vocational Guide.)
VIII. Rosicrucian Manual.
IX. Mystics at Prayer.
X. Rosicrucian Healing.
(In preparation.)
XI. Mansions of the Soul.
(The Cosmic Conception.)
XII, Lemuria, The Lost Continent of the Pacific.
XIII. The Technique of the Master.
XIV. The Symbolic Prophecy of the Great Pyramid.
XV. The Book of Jashcr.
XVI. The Technique of the Disciple.
XVII. Mental Poisoning.
(Other volumes will be added from time to time.
Write for complete catalogue.)
CONTENTS
V
SECTION PACE
I. Hypnotism or Black Magic? . . . 9
II. Is Black Magic Possible . . . . 17
III. The Psychology of Mental Reactions 25
IV. Strange Processes of the Human Mind 41
V. Methods of Administering Mental
Poisoning................................................ 61
V V V
Tlit
ih
u
tt
i»
the
virw
nf
the
liin
o
iit
itm
p
lr
to
w
h
of
Q
ik
v
ii
Hat*h*|*Mit.
I
Ttlrt
B
(!
.
film
ed
h
y
th
e
AMORC
n
n
i
t
t
i
tip
n
liiii
n
In
thi%
m
n
lt
tu
iu
'
iuitx<<l
v«llry
"I
t
l
x
N
ile.
<
iiiru
u
n
d
t<
l
b
y
'ллП*
of
u
m
)
*
in
t,
art
hurled
Ецур<‘»
(
i
r
t
l
.
tin-
ji
I
i
j
n
i
i
I
i
*
an
d
k
m
c-
o
l
th
e
p
u
t
M
m
l
o
f
th
r
»
c
I
t
m
p
l
r
(omht
tarry
inw
ripln.tn
of
vejrninK
to
all
th
-o
r
who
vniuld
i
t
n
r
to
in
v
a
d
e
th
o
u
o
i
w
t
i
l
y
.
th
r
e
a
t*
tm
iu
:
'lu
t
ш
п
к
ц
м
л
с
г
'
to
th
t
d
o
e
c
r
a
te
r
A
nother
view
of
the
rugged.
age
<4d.
m
o
th
e
r
»turned
cliff>
of
the
Valley
of
the
Queer.*,
the
city
of
the
dead
In
the
right
forcgim
m
d.
I*
*hown
the
entrance
way
fo
the
t»<nh
of
a
Feudal
Lord,
partially
covered
w
ith
a
curved
>Ub
of
concrete.
to
prutevt
the
entrance
way
O
n
the
left
there
may
be
*een
the
dark
entrancew
ay*
into
other
tomb*
o
f
the
more
prom
inent
Royalty.
S e c t io n I
HYPNOTISM OR BLACK MAGIC?
HE strange deaths that came to so large a
number of the explorers taking part in the
excavations of King Tu ts tomb gradually-
awakened throughout the entire world an
interest in the ancient beliefs in black
magic and magical curses.
The periodic addition to the number of indh
viduals who thus fell victims, seemingly, to the
“secret curse of the tombs,” has served to intensify
public interest in this subject, until today, a very
large portion of the civilised population of the
world believes that the mystery of those deaths has
been deliberately protected by science and religion,
and by the inconsistent, contradictory, and care'
fully colored statements of those who know more
about it than they care to profess; while a large
portion of the uncivilised people significantly shake
their heads and intimate that they are entirely too
familiar with the subject to risk the displeasure of
invisible demons by daring to make any comment.
[ 9 ]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
While feature writers in the Sunday newspapers
and in the more or less bombastic magazines have
over'exaggerated the historical traditions and well-
recorded references to such magical powers, and
attempt to frighten the unthinking into strange be­
liefs, the attempts on the part of prominent scien­
tists and leading spiritual or religious educators to
make us believe that the weird, unexpected deaths
present merely a chain of coincidences, without
any connection with the tomb whatsoever, are just
as ineffective in quelling the increasing interest
in the possibilities of magical power and its
results.
However, some of the foremost mental and psy­
chological experts tell us that if there were any
connection whatsoever between the very strange
diseases with which each one of the twenty or
more explorers passed away suddenly, and theopen­
ing of King Tut's tomb and the removal of its mys­
terious and sacred contents, then that connection
was solely mental and consisted of a form of hyp­
notic suggestion by which each victim created
within his body the strange malady from which he
died, while still trembling in fear of the thing that
he held in his mind as an inevitable punishment for
his participation in a violation of an ancient Egyp­
tian law.
[ io]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
Thus an attempt is made to take the mystery
out of the category of supposedly ancient magical
formulas into the modem category of hypnotic or
psychological phenomena, as though this would re­
duce the whole matter to a readily acceptable
and feasible explanation and leave no questions
unanswered. If the deaths were due to hypnotic
suggestion created in the minds of these explorers
as a result of the first and second incidents in the
strange chain of mysterious deaths, the cause of
the repeated manifestations to the number of
twenty-two or more would be wholly within the
period of modern times. In other words, if hyp­
notic suggestion accompanied by fear is the
true explanation of the concurring deaths, the
cause had its beginning not later than the oc­
currence of the second, or possibly third, sudden
and unexplained death. W e might even admit
that this psychological cause had its beginning
immediately after the first death, but cer­
tainly we could not trace this psychological
cause to any other incident or fact antedat­
ing the strange passing of the first victim of the
process.
But the astonishing fact which remains unex­
plained in such a theory is that the weird circle of
mysterious deaths was the precise fulfillment of a
[ n ]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
prophetic curse uttered and cut into the wall of
King Tut’s tomb thirty-one centuries ago!
The question then is: what unknown form of
magic could carry a curse down through the ages
and psychologically produce the physiological
results in modern times? Hypnotism or black
magic? Necromancy or Karmic law? W hat have
we here that science has not explained, and the lay
mind cannot comprehend, but fears?
Another very plausible,thoughcertainly disturb­
ing, explanation has been offered in the suggestion
that some chemical poison of a real, tangible
material was placed within the sealed tomb of
King Tut and deliberately spread upon every ar­
ticle within the tomb and every inch of its walls,
and that each of the excavators, explorers, and
inspectors who entered the tomb or who handled
the funerary articles within it came in physical con­
tact with this poison, which was readily absorbed
by their systems, and thus infected in a manner to
produce the almost uniform results in the case of
each of the twenty-two victims resulting in the
sudden and strange deaths.
The unthinking mind readily seizes upon this
latter explanation as being not only logical but so
simple and free from the elements of the superna­
tural as to be unquestionably correct. But the ana-
[ n ]
lyrical mind will quickly discover the faults in such
a theory. In the first place, experts who have been
consulted and who have made the most minute
chemical examination analysis of even the dust on
the surface of the smallest and largest devices still
remaining in the tomb and on the wallsof the tomb,
and even on parts of the sarcophagus, have failed
to find the slightest trace of any poison. And in
answer to the question whether some unknown
ancient poison might not be hidden in the minute
substances tested under the microscope, the experts
in the nature of poisons and the pathology of
poison claim that there is no poison known to
them that would retain its virtue and potency
through so many centuries, or which could be so
easily absorbed into the system through just the
casual contact with the things in the tomb made
by those who did h'ttle more than measure or pho­
tograph some of the objects and yet fell victims
to the strange disease.
One other outstanding fault, however, makes
the foregoing theory of chemical poisoning unac­
ceptable. It is the fact that although all of these
excavators and explorers, research men, photogra­
phers, artists, and associate observers and witnesses
entered the tomb of King Tut at practically the
same hour of the same day, and came in contact
[ 13]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
with the articles within the tomb on the same day,
and completed their activities in the tomb on the
same day, not all twenty-two were stricken with
the disease on the same day nor passed through
transition on approximately the same day. Only
one by one, with many days, weeks, and months
intervening, submitted to the strange malady that
brought about the unique deaths. Each one did
not manifest the same symptoms except in general
classification, each one did not have identically the
same pathological or physiological conditions, and
each one did not suffer in the same manner. But
each one did have precisely the same mental atti­
tude and uncontrollable fear and premonition from
the first moment of disability!
And, accompanying the hysterical and uncon­
trollable fears and as the companion to the horrible
premonitions, there were similar visions, hallucina­
tions, and highly illusory psychic states.
W hat manner of organic or inorganic poison
could be manufactured thirty-one centuries ago
and so placed in a tomb that it would insidiously
affect and inoculate healthy, normal human beings
in a few seconds on the same day, and produce in
various types of individuals similar physical con­
ditions and precisely the same mental conditions,
accompanied by an unusual class of psychic im-
[ n ]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
pressions and premonitions, ultimately resulting in
incurable physical abnormalities producing horrible
deaths, and only one at a time with an indefinite
number of days between each?
It is because this last complex question is un­
answerable by modem science that the idea or
theory of physical chemical poisoning must be
abandoned.
If, then, we turn to psychiatrists and the experts
in psychological and metaphysical problems and
submit the same question, we receive this astonish­
ing answer:
“There is but one insidious poison that could
have been invented twenty-one hundred years ago
or more, and counted upon to carry out the dire­
ful results we have seen, and that poison is mental
poison!”
Throughout the ages mental poisoning of one
form or another has enslaved millions of human
beings and tortured the souls of men and women
in all climes and conditions.
Mental poisoning has been the weapon of the
earliest and most primitive human creatures. It
has been the insidious, invisible, indetectable in­
strument of torture and death in the hands of the
unlearned and the learned, the rich and the poor,
the high and the low, and even of those who pose
[ h ]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
as saintly beings and holy men. It has been the
“means to an end” in the hands of evil-minded
potentates and rulers, physicians and magicians,
priests and clerics, schemers, racketeers, black­
mailers and pretending friends.
It has been the scepter of power in the hands
of self-appointed leaders of social reforms and or­
ganized plunderers.
It is still the subtle, devilish device of millions
of men and women who may or may not be wholly
aware of its power and its death-dealing potency.
And—all of us from day to day and hour to
hour in every walk of life, in every circumstance,
are possible victims of its use unless we understand
its nature and can quickly recognize its infectious
inoculation and use the only known antidote that
will effectively react upon it and leave us un-
contaminated!
V V V
116]
S e c t io n II
IS BLACK M AGIC POSSIBLE?
HROUGHOUT the ages there has been a
superstitious belief in the power of the
evil eye, the black magician’s subtle
power, and the hypnotist’s dominating
mind.
As one journeys through such lands as Egypt in
these very modern days, one is impressed with two
strange facts; on nearly all of the old native homes
or living structures regardless of their primitive or
dilapidated form, there appears one blue shutter
on some window, or, in the absence of any shut­
ters, one blue patch of paint on an outside wall,
and there hangs on a cord from the neck of every
living creature including donkeys and camels, and
from the necks of most natives, a blue bead. And
always the blue is of the same shade—turquoise.
The other fact is that most of the men and women
in these lands have one of their eyes either totally
blind, scarred and injured, or horribly distorted,
and this is the case even of little boys and girls. A t
[ 17]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
first one may not realize that there is any relation­
ship between the blue shutter, the blue patch of
paint on the wall, the blue bead on the string, and
the injured eye. But investigation reveals that all
of these things are believed to be absolute protec­
tions against the influence of “the evil eye," or the
magical influence of some invisible but omni­
present, omnipotent, evil mind. For centuries the
believers in such a superstition took their little
infants a few hours or days old and had one eye
gouged or burned out with a blunt instrument or
even with the fingernail of the left hand so that
throughout the lives of these children, even unto
old age, their horrible appearance would frighten
away the evil power, as would the blue shutter,
the blue paint, and the blue bead. When we can
find such a belief as this still active in uncivilized
and semi-civilized lands of today, whose people
come in contact yearly with millions of tourists
from civilized lands who do not resort to such
forms of magical protection, we can understand
how difficult it is to remove from the minds and
consciousness of human beings any belief that was
born in ignorance, fostered by traditions, and seem­
ingly proven by strange coincidences.
In other lands, various forms of incantations,
the burning of brush, the sacrificing of little ani-
[18]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
mals, the bathing in strange waters, the torturing
of the parts of the body, the wearing or carrying
of some amulets or talismans or the drinking of
peculiar potions is regarded as sure protection
against magical powers of all kinds.
And even in our most modern of civilized coun­
tries, among our most intelligent of evolved human
beings, we have superstitious beliefs that are just
as extraordinary, just as fantastic, and just as in­
excusable and unsound as those I have mentioned.
Among these strange and superstitious beliefs of
the highly educated and evolved nations is that
which attributes to certain human individuals the
power and the ability to use some magic formula
whereby the evil thoughts, the destructive ideas
and desires, held within his mind for a brief mo­
ment or two, can be radiated or transmitted
invisibly and intangibly to the mind and body of
another individual at any distance or in any place
or circumstance, and take root, become infectious,
and proceed to carry out the destructive portent
and process of their conception.
According to this still very prevalent supersti­
tious belief, the evil-minded individual of any type
or calibre, of any social position, high or low, of
any degree of mental and physical prowess, when
possessing a wicked heart and some secret formula
[ 19]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
can deliberately, maliciously, and knowingly, send
forth from his mind to the mind, brain, or heart
of another being, a stream or ray of thought
power that will proceed to destroy the cells of
the blood, the cells of the tissue, the cells of the
bones, and produce diseases or instant death, or
cause the victim to suffer from obsessional ideas
that turn into hallucinations, break down and de­
stroy the integrity of the brain, and leave the
individual a victim of incurable insanity.
It is almost unbelievable, but nevertheless a fact,
that within the cycle of the twentieth century, as
in that of the nineteenth and earlier centuries, more
new and horrifying books and pamphlets, treatises
and lectures, have been written and published deal­
ing with the practice of black magic than in all of
the centuries of the dark ages.
It is also unbelievable that in recent years cer­
tain occult and supposedly white-brotherhood or­
ganizations have written and produced in radio
stations for nationwide hearing in America, plays
and dramas based upon the practice of this black
magic, and giving to them all of the atmosphere,
all of the dignity, and all of the seeming integrity
of truthfulness and logical possibility.
But to the mystic and to the student of Cosmic
law and order the belief in such a process of de-
[ 20]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
structive power controlled by any individual is
inconsistent, impossible, and truly sacrilegious, and
the true mystic and student of Cosmic law is alone
capable of rendering judgment in such a case in
such a manner. His knowledge and his experience
with the divine Cosmic principles enables him to
realise and to thoroughly understand that no such
process of transmission of destructive energy or
power in any thought form between one individual
and another or between one individual and a group
of individuals would be possible without the con­
scious approval, aid, and dependable assistance of
the universal consciousness and divine spirit that
pervades all space and acts as a medium for the
transmission of thought waves, light waves, energy
waves, or waves of any kind. The belief, therefore,
that this divine, Cosmic, Godly-created universal
consciousness, put into the universe by the Creator
of all that is good and loving and constructive, for
the purpose of unifying all of His harmonious con­
structive principles, would lend itself to a process
of destruction wholly abhorrent to the universal
constructive and creative forces of the uni­
verse and wholly inharmonious to the loving,
merciful nature of the consciousness is a sac­
rilege as well as an inane and absurd super­
stition.
[21 ]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
In the world of invisible and ethereal radiations
of mental concepts, only that which is constructive
and truly compatible and harmonious with the
nature of God and His consciousness can be trans­
mitted through space from one human conscious­
ness to another, or from the divine consciousness
to the human consciousness, or from the conscious­
ness of one living cell to another living cell.
Any destructive, incompatible, and inharmonious
thought radiation attempting to leave the mind and
consciousness of one individual to reach another
meets with instant repulsion and immediate dis­
solution. Its potency is neutralized by the con­
structive forces and powers of the divine con­
sciousness, and the evil thoughts are forced back
into the consciousness of the transmitting mind
where the reaction is upon the evil-minded indi­
vidual, and not upon the intended victim. The
mystic and student of divine and Cosmic laws
knows that God, in the very beginning of His
scheme of creation, made provision that man
should be free from mental dominance and control
by any other mind than his own. God’s
whole universe is built upon the principle of
creative forces having sole potency in the vibra­
tions of consciousness. The very consciousness of
man’s mind and body, in every organ and cell, is
[22]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
a part of the consciousness of God, the Father of
all living things.
Not a single fact of the belief in the processes
of black magic has ever been proved or demon­
strated. Why, then, should any human beings or
group of them desire to postulate and promote a
belief in black magic, or tempt human beings to
have faith in such a diabolical agency? The an­
swer is found in the fact that by the promotion and
spread of such an idea, accompanied with invented
and imaginary demonstrations of it, unthinking
persons will voluntarily develop in their own minds
and in their worldly objective consciousness a hor­
rible fear of an unknown power, and thus become
victims of the fear and of their own self-created
destructive thought forms.
He who fears black magic through a sincere
belief in its existence and potency, automatically,
through self-suggestion within his own mind, be­
comes not only enslaved by the fear but a ready
victim of the evils his mind invents. While the
consciousness and Cosmic ether that intervenes
between all human beings and fills all space be­
tween the souls and bodies of God’s creatures on
earth will refuse to carry and convey the destruc­
tive thoughts held in the mind of one who would
use them to injure another, within our own
[23]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
bodies, our own worldly mortal nerves and sensory
constitution and physical consciousness will carry
from our own minds throughout our own bodies
those destructive, inharmonious, infectious and
poisonous thoughts that our own minds created
out of fear and superstitious beliefs.
Thus we, as individuals, can become the victims
of our own poisonous thoughts, but we cannot
become the victims of the poisonous thoughts of
another. W hat we may conceive in our minds in
fear and through false belief and allow to become
a law and a command unto urselves constitutes
one form of mental poisoning. All of us are more
or less victims of this self'poisoning from the be'
ginning of earthly life to its end, unless we have
learned how to protect ourselves against the whole
satanic scheme of evil thinking.
But this form of mental poisoning is not the
one that is causing and creating, producing and
manifesting, throughout modern civilization, the
horrible, unfortunate, and unnecessary suffering
that makes millions of human beings victims of it
hour by hour and day by day. It is with this
second form of mental poisoning that we shall
deal in the following chapters.
V V V
[24]
Se c t io n III
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MENTAL
REACTIONS
OT many years ago specialists of various
kinds were seriously engaged in studying
and analyzing reactions of certain nerve
stimuli and mental stimuli. In the field
of psychiatry and in the field of neurdlogy
the common, uncommon, normal and abnormal
reactions to stimuli of various classifications, both
physical and mental, or nervous, enabled specialists
to diagnose and properly index the physical and
mental status of persons who were suffering either
from chronic conditions of an unknown origin or
strange complexes resulting from suspected causes.
As a result of the many years of analytical study
tabulated in minute reports which were gradually
brought together and put into a cumulative
index of discovered facts, there appeared to be
certain forms of reactions which, by their con'
tinued manifestation in more than the average case,
warranted the specialists in calling these reactions
the standard or the normal or natural, while all
[25}
other reactions were looked upon as abnormal,
subnormal, extraordinary, or unique.
The actions and reactions of minute animals
and household pets were finally involved in the
program of scrutiny by the specialists, and we were
made acquainted with the psychological as well
as the physiological reasons for the little dog strik-
ing out in proper method to swim in the lake upon
the occasion of his first contact with water. The
mystery of his ability to know what to do without
any previous instruction and without ever having
been in the water before was explained on the
basis of reaction to uncommon or abnormal stimuli
applied to his nervous system by the sudden con-
tact with the wet and cold water. W e learned that
the same reactions to unusual stimuli caused the
little bird to spread out its wings and attempt to
fly when it was pushed away from the edge of the
nest for the first time. W e gradually learned to
understand why children called out in fright at
seeing some horrifying picture, or why they so
naturally ran to one parent or the other in a mo­
ment of seeming danger.
Л careful reading of the books dealing with
this matter would lead one to think that all of us
as human beings, and with the same kind of con-
sciousness in all of our cells, lived and acted and
{26]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
did our thinking and reasoning wholly in ac-
cordance with the automatic reactions aroused in
our physical, psychic, nervous, or mental systems.
The seeking of iood when hungry is but a reaction;
the desire for drink when the moisture of the body
is causing a stimulus upon the part of the nervous
system is really another reaction. The pleasure we
derive from music or from a ride in the open coun­
try or from the taste of some wholesome food or
from the smell of a pleasant odor are other forms
of reactions resulting from certain specific stimuli.
All of this brought to our understanding some
certain fundamental actions on our part that were
previously looked upon as primitive, natural in­
stincts. But psychology made plain to us that
some of these, such as the automatic attempt to
preserve our own selves and our own well being,
were not purely subconscious instincts held over
in our present consciousness from the days of our
primitive existence. The claim was made by the
new school of reactionists that whatever endan­
gered us momentarily acted as a stimulus upon the
mental or nervous system and this in turn produced
the automatic reaction that manifested itself as an
attempt to protect or preserve ourselves.
W e have always believed that self-preservation
was the first law of conscious existence, and that
[27}
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
every living conscious creature from the lowest
cell to the most complex group of cells known as
the human body would express this instinct when
in the face of danger, and do it without having had
any special stimulus to bring it about.
But we learn from the psychology of mental
reactions, apart from the study of physiological
reactions, that there are certain other natural or
normal instincts common to all human beings, that
may or may not derive from ancient primitive
periods of living, but may be a new product of our
present higher form of evolved existence. In other
words, some such universal instincts among civi­
lized beings may be the direct result of higher
evolution of the human consciousness. It may be
something born of our modern progress and un-
foldment and not of our primitive life.
One such almost universal instinct is to refuse
to accept and obey the command of another person
without careful analysis and ultimate agreement
with the intent and purpose of the command. W e
do not have to delve deeply into clinical psy­
chology nor spend months and years analyzing
the conduct of children in the kindergarten and
throughout the years of public school attendance
to note that the human mind is reluctant to accept
a command from another mind. The natural
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
normal reaction to any external command is most
often manifested by the immediate exclamation of
the question, “Why?” If two men are walking
along the street in opposite directions, and as one
approaches the other the one says to the other,
“Get off this sidewalk, and let me pass!” the other
will react normally and naturally by drawing up
his body to its fuff height and with a glaring look
of the eye, manifest this normal instinct or refusal
to obey by asking, “W hy should I?”
I have used a very unusual illustration to make
plain my point, and it is more than likely that if
the above incident were to occur in certain places
and among certain types of men there would be
more reaction than the mere demand for an ex­
planation. Nevertheless, while this illustration is
very bold and uncouth, and lacking entirely in
subtility, it does illustrate the principle involved.
Psychology teaches us that the only successful
way by which to make another mind or a strange
mind obey a wish of our own mind is to present
that command or desire in such a subtle manner
that it will be either unconsciously or willingly
accepted by the other mind and acted upon with
cooperation and approval before it has had time
to analyze it and resent it. But the instinct to
resent a direct command is always present, and
[29]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
this natural and normal resentment must be over'
come if we would have other persons do our bid'
ding. That is why, probably, we have gradually
developed certain polite formalities in expressing
our desires, but even so, a direct command worded
in the very finest of polite language would not
wholly overcome the natural resentment manifest'
ing itself in a hesitation to obey. If the one man
had said to the other, “W ill you kindly, my dear
and respected sir, venture to step entirely from
the sidewalk and allow me ample space to progress
on my way!" it is doubtful if the other man would
hurry himself out of his position with any more
agreeableness than he would have done if requested
by the former command. There would be a dif'
ference in his reactions undoubtedly, or he would
pause a moment to analyse the unusual formula
and verbosity of the request, polished with an ex'
traordinary degree of politeness, and come to the
conclusion that the individual making the request
was either mentally unbalanced or suffering from
a superiority complex. In either case, his pause for
reflection and analysis of the request would termi'
nate with the same ultimate reaction of resentment
and refusal to move without a further explanation.
But the fact remains as a psychological law that
as soon as the average human being is old enough
[JO]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
to feel that he is a living entity with certain rights
and privileges of his own, he resents almost auto­
matically and most stubbornly any command from
an external source that appears to abrogate or take
from him or modify his established rights and
privileges. Even when these rights and privileges
are mistaken ideas and are merely assumed and
based upon nothing but personal belief, or even
when these rights and privileges are not his at all
but are fictitiously assumed for the moment and
they are known to be false and unwarranted, still
the one who is commanded will resent the right
and privilege of the other to make such commands.
Л man may step from the graveled paths of a
well-kept city park and trample upon the well-
cared-for grass lawn with a sign before him to
remind him to “Keep off the Grass,” and if a
civilian like himself approaches him and commands
him to “Get off the grass” he will resent the com­
mand from the stranger, even though he knows
that the command is not an attempt to make him
abrogate any of his proper rights, for he knows
that he has no right to trample upon the grass
lawn. On the other hand, if a police officer or one
who is dressed like a park official or caretaker, or
someone in higher authority in the city govern­
ment, for instance, approaches him and gives the
[ 31]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
same command, he may obey, and obey instantly,
but not without the natural resentment that rises
up within his consciousness. Recognising a su­
perior authority does not take from the command
the sting it has nor soften the resentment that rises
in the consciousness. It simply urges immediate
compliance because of that other natural instinct,
the p rese rv a tio n o f self.
W e can understand, therefore, why little chil­
dren when told not to do certain things or to do
certain things so quickly react and reply with the
age-old question, “W hy?” The child may not be
conscious of the fact that one of his fundamental
principles of free action is being jeopardized by the
command he receives, but he does sense that the
command is a challenge to the conclusion he has
reached or the desire he wants to express, or the
instinct that he senses, and wishes to carry out to
the fullest expression.
Psychologists who have focused their knowledge
of mental laws upon the problems of business, such
as the problem of advertising and the problem of
selling, have taught the astute business man the
ultimate and final psychological lessons that he
requires. The business man—the advertising man
and the salesman—has learned that you cannot
command potential purchasers to buy things with'
[32]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
out first anticipating the inevitable question,
“W hy?” Regardless of the merits of the Steinway
or Chickering piano, you could not expect a sales­
man or advertising man to succeed in building up
the merits of such an instrument by publishing in
newspapers or magazines or in circulars the
forcible command to buy a Steinway piano. If the
question of w h y has previously been answered by
public statements describing the superior quality
of the instrument, the advertising man and the
salesman may attempt to rely upon that established
knowledge and feel that they can ignore any further
explanations of why the piano should be pur­
chased. But it is poor psychology to trust in any
person’s correct understanding of the merits of
any proposition to such an extent that he will
obey a command without further investigation.
Л well-known product sold throughout the
United States for years was advertised on bill­
boards and in newspapers and magazines solely
and exclusively by the statement that, “Eventually
(you will buy it) why not now?” This new form
of advertising was expected to greatly increase the
sale of the good product. But where the adver­
tising appeared in new sections not previously
made acquainted with the product, the expected
sales did not materialize because it was found that
[ 3 3 ]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
thousands of possible users of the product natur­
ally and unconsciously reacted to the command by
asking, subconsciously of course, “Well, why?”
W hat was there about the product that would
make an individual inevitably buy it, and why
should that individual buy it now? W ith these
two questions left unanswered, the human mind
felt the resentment of the command and almost
challengingly decided that it would not buy the
product. This mental decision, born out of a
natural resentment of the command, became a
more powerful psychological factor than the
original sales command, and was very difficult to
overcome except after many years of different
advertising.
And so the human race, especially in civilized
countries, has proved to be easily affected by its
normal and natural instincts and by the psycho­
logical processes of its mental reactions. The most \
successful business men, advertising men, psycholo­
gists, physicians, surgeons, instructors, teachers,
attorneys and professional men in many fields have
found that the easiest way, the most efficient way,
and the most dependable way to bring about a
desired reaction or to have another individual or
group of individuals follow a course of action pre­
viously outlined for them is to su g g est it instead
[ 3 4 ]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
of co m m a n d it. And there has risen in the pro­
fessional field, especially in the sales and advertis­
ing fields, which include part of nearly every art
and profession of today, a new school of psy­
chology devoted to the careful study of human
reactions and the subtle preparation of forceful
suggestions that carry with them all of the potency
of a royal command, but all of the agreeableness
of a kindly suggestion.
And this school of unique forms of applied
psychology has discovered very fundamental prin­
ciples. It has found that there are several ways
in which very potent commands or suggestions
can be given or conveyed by one mind to another,
and that there are several ways in which such
potent suggestions or actual commands can be and
are readily accepted by another mind and almost
unconsciously acted upon.
In the long reports of the experts of this new
school of applied psychology we come to realize
that our daily lives, our daily affairs, our personal,
private, intimate and public actions and reactions
are almost hourly, and certainly daily, affected by
the unsuspected commands and subtly potent sug­
gestions of a horde of highly trained specialists who
are working in every field of human interest solely
for the purpose of making the rest of us do what
£ « ]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
they want us to do. They show us that what we
eat for our breakfast has been carefully suggested
to us but nevertheless commanded. They show us
that the articles of clothing we wear and partial-
larly the novel devices from garters to hatpins or
types of shoes to cuff links are purchased and used
by us, not from any desire born within our own
consciousness, but as a result of and reaction to a
command subtly created in our minds and acted
upon voluntarily. They show that the kind of
homes we build, the professions we select for our
children ,the theaters we attend, the books we buy
to read, the kind of medicine we take, the termi­
nology or the identification of our physical com­
plaints, and even the kind of operations we demand
in a hospital and the final form and type of funeral
service are the result of desires magically created
in our minds without our least suspicion. Reading
these reports, one begins to wonder whether any
of us ever have an original idea of our own, or a
desire uniquely conceived and born in our con­
sciousness without the fatherhood of some mental
trickster.
But the analysis of their classifications of meth­
ods of producing subtle and effective commands
shows us that there are three methods whereby
the commands or ideas can be conveyed from one
[ 3 6 }
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
mind to another and accepted by the other mind
almost unconsciously and turned into a law or a
power that instantly sets into motion reactions that
are uncontrollable. The first of these methods of
conveying such potent ideas is by cleverly worded
phrases uttered in unsuspected garb, and offered
with the most agreeable candy coating. The sec­
ond method is by offering the same idea or the
same thought, with all of its potency, in the form
of an unspoken suggestion, usually by gesture or
silence when spoken words were anticipated. The
third method is a combination of the first two,
but presented in pictorial form either through a
drawing, a painting, a moving picture, or photo­
graph, a diagram, or a list of statistical figures or
other symbols.
In fact, the psychology of the process seems to
be this: If you can offer a potent idea to another
without letting the other person suspect for a frac­
tion of a moment that you are anxious to have him
adopt the idea, it will be more readily adopted and
accepted and acted upon than if a suspicion is
aroused that you are trying to transplant an idea
of your own into the other’s consciousness. An­
other very subtle point in connection with this
psychological process is that if you, in presenting
your carefully veiled command and carefully
[37}
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
worded or formed suggestion, can so involve it,
decorate it, and clothe it that the other person’s
mind will hear it or recognize it or see it without
immediately understanding its real nature, but will
later on evolve it and mature it into a living vital
idea of the individual’s mind, then that individual
will think or believe that the idea is one of his own
conception, his own logical and reasoning condu'
sion, and (vanity of all vanities) because it is his
own conceived and developed idea it must be true
and correct and therefore worthy of immediate
acceptance and highly enthusiastic adoption.
Reducing all of the foregoing wanderings
through the highways and byways of modem psy'
chology—perhaps no more modern than the psy'
chology used by Eve in her explanation of how
she came to be serving apples at an afternoon tea
in the Garden of Eden—we find that the principle
is simply this: If the individual, Mr. Л , wishes
to have another individual, Mr. B or Mrs. B, do
certain things, believe certain things, feel certain
things, and act according to certain fixed ideas,
instead of Mr. Л going to Mr. or Mrs. B and
commanding him or her to do these things, or even
politely suggesting them, he presents the idea in a
roundabout way, perhaps in an allegory, parable,
analogy, a citation from something he has read or
[38]
heard somewhere, or by indirectly referring to a
news item in the paper or a wonderful scene in
some moving picture drama now current, and then
drops the matter without any indication that he
was more than casually interested in it. If, how'
ever, he has used the proper psychology in present-
ing the idea to Mr. or Mrs. B, we will find that
a little later on when the two persons are sep­
arated and no longer in contact with each other,
Mr. B will begin to recall some of the incomplete
thoughts given to him by Mr. Л and will analyze
them, probably trying to solve the mystery of the
missing link in the story or trying to find an appli­
cation of the analogy to present circumstances, and
will gradually develop the idea in his own con­
sciousness to a far greater extent than Mr. Л pre­
sented it to him. Finally—after an hour’s time, a
day’s time, or perhaps the passing of a week or a
month—Mr. B will discover some point or some
part of the idea that was presented to him and
which he evolved in his own mind to a larger ex­
tent than is now interesting to him, or that was
suddenly quickened into interest by some new inci­
dent that has just occurred in his own affairs or
his own life or his own body, and instantly he
becomes fascinated by the idea and analogy and
relationship that he has created in connection with
[39]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
this idea and he reaches a conclusion about it, a
decision, and finds in it some essence of a truth,
and this pleases him and causes him to give more
thought to the matter and finally decide that he
has made a discovery or he has evolved an idea
that must be of value to him and certainly of sig­
nificance to him or his mind would not be so
occupied with it. Here is the point where the
potency of Mr. A ’s process reaches its grand cli­
max, for now the command and idea is no longer
that which came from Mr. Л. The command is
no longer something created in the mind of A and
passed on to B. It is now the magnificent com­
mand of Mr. B’s own mind, and of course there
can be no rejection and no resentment when the
idea is one’s own and so gloriously evolved through
one’s own clever analysis and rational reasoning.
So at once the command of A becomes the com­
mand of B, and B is within its grasp, within its
influence, and unconsciously its victim whether
it be for good or evil. This, then, is a part of the
psychological process of mental reactions.
V V V
{40}
S e c t io n IV
STRANGE PROCESSES OF THE
HUM AN M IND
T IS no longer necessary to argue with any
sane and thinking person the question as
to whether the mind in the human body
has any control over the matter that com'
poses the body or the various physiologi'
cal processes going on within the body. Nor need
anyone be a follower or a devotee of the meta'
physical, mystical, spiritual or religious teachings
of any sect or cult to recall incidents which con'
stitute proof of the fact that the mind in the
human body can be the creator of many strange
and peculiar mental conditions.
In the clinical study of the psychological pny
cesses formerly called hypnosis, it was proved long
ago that a person put into an induced state of sleep
either by a psychological hypnotic or a chemical
hypnotic, and having faith in the integrity and
wisdom of the one who induces the sleep, can be
made to believe that a cold fountain pen or lead
pencil is a red'hot iron. W ith this cold instrument
[41}
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
held before him, and with his believing eyes seeing
in it an instrument of torture, it is easy for him to
believe also that if this glowing hot piece of metal
is touched against his arm for a fraction of a
minute, he will suffer intense pain and later have
proof of the burn in the form of a water blister on
the arm. And in fact, in every test made in this
manner during a true state of induced or hypnotic
state of belief and susceptibility, the patient in the
clinic or science lecture hall has suffered all of the
physiological and mental agonies of a burn, even
those which would register upon cardiographs or
the recording devices of other sensitive electrical
instruments. And sometime after being restored to
a normal waking state, although truly unconscious
of what has taken place, a water blister of the size
and form of the supposed hot metal that touched
his arm will form in a very normal and natural
manner upon the arm, and this may be opened and
the water removed from it in the usual manner
without any indication to the observer or to the
patient that the very evident water blister was not
the result of an actual physical burn made by con-
tact with an actual hot piece of metal.
We have, in this laboratory demonstration that
has been made thousands of times in psychological
clinics in hospitals in Europe and America and
[42]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
witnessed hundreds of times by the writer of this
booklet, an excellent example of how a mental
idea, having no actual or physical basis for its
effects, can create within the human body a truly
physiological result. In other words, this demon-
stration proves that an idea or a thought in the
mind can translate itself and transform itself into
something that is not merely mental but something
as actual as any actuality that ever affected the
human body.
Hundreds of other similar experiments tested on
children, and on adults of all ages and of both
sexes, prove that if the human mind accepts an
idea without question, without doubt, or without
suspicion of any kind, it becomes not merely an
accepted idea but a law, or a command, or a prin­
ciple that will logically fulfill its purpose and its
nature without any further support in actuality
or in psychological processes.
To make this more understandable, let us recall
the fact that when an actual hot iron or piece of
metal is placed against the arm and we look at it
touching our flesh, we do not have to create in our
minds the idea that it will bum us and will send
torturous impulses of pain up the arm to the brain,
and that we will sense the terrific pain to such an
extent that we will not only feel it but see it re-
[43]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
acting in contractions of the muscles of the arm
and an attempt of the arm to draw itself away
from the iron. W e do not have to create the idea
of withdrawing the arm from the hot iron, for that
idea as a command to the arm is bom in the mind
as a result of the pain and suffering that automa-
tically follows the burning of the flesh. And when
the iron has been removed from the arm—or
rather, the arm quickly removed from the presence
of the iron—we do not have to give a mental com'
mand to the flesh to form a blister, the shape of the
burn, nor do we have to think of the process that
will follow the burning, such as the forming of a
blister, and so forth. All of these things—the
burning of the flesh, the terrific pain, the contrac'
tions of the skin and muscle, the jerking of the
arm, the forming of the blister—all follow autcr
matically in due course as logical steps in the pro­
cess a fte r we see the hot iron or feel the hot iron
touching the flesh. It cannot be said, therefore,
that the keen twinges of pain, the twitches of the
flesh, the contractions of the muscles, the jerking
of the arm and the forming of the blister are indi-
vidual and separate ideas created in the mind and
forced into manifestation in the body. Each of the
separate steps in the whole process follows succes'
sively, automatically as a matter of course, in ac'
[44]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
cordance with nature's laws. The fact that if one
hundred arms of one hundred various types of
individuals are burned with the same hot piece of
metal in the same manner and for the same length
of time, we will find similar scars on the tissue
caused by the heat and similar water blis-
ters on each of the individuals, shows that
nature works very uniformly in these natural
processes.
The only difference, therefore, between the
whole process of burning the arm with the foun­
tain pen and having it result in a water blister, and
burning the arm with an actual piece of hot metal
and having it result in a similar water blister, lies
in the difference between the concept in the mind
in each case. In the one case, the mind of the indi­
vidual accepted the existence and truthfulness and
actuality of the burning metal touching the flesh
solely upon the basis of its faith in the integrity
of the creator of the idea, and thereafter left na­
ture to carry out its processes in due manner,
whereas in the other case the mind accepted the
actuality, the truthfulness, the physical existence
of the hot iron against the flesh, not upon faith in
the integrity of another’s mind or another's state­
ment, but upon its own mind's observation of the
iron in its red-hot form, and therefore, the idea of
[45]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
burning being accepted as true, nature’s processes
were automatically carried out.
We see, therefore, that in both cases the actu-
ality in the existence of the red-hot iron was
accepted upon observation. It is generally conceded
that “Seeing is believing!” that if we see a thing
we have the very best evidence of it nature,
quality and potency to do certain things. In the
one case, the patient in the laboratory sees the
hot iron through the psychic or psychological eyes
of his mind, which are within the mental control
of the hypnotic operator. In other words, what
the hypnotic operator sees in his own mind and
wants the patient to see in his mind is seen by the
patient without question or doubt or the least sus­
picion of deception. Therefore, as far as the psy­
chological processes are concerned, the patient in
the induced sleep or hypnotic state does “see” the
red-hot iron when the operator tells him that he is
holding before him a red-hot iron.
(Right here it may be of interest to students of
psychology, and perhaps helpful to those who chal­
lenge any of the statements made herein, that in
various other tests made it has been proved that
while a patient is in an induced sleep or hypnotic
state, his eyes are not so blinded as in normal sleep,
but are open to physiological perception and the
[46]
transmission of light waves or sight waves as in
a normal state, except that the interpretation of
these impressions is affected by the acceptance of
the statements of the hypnotic operator. In other
words, when the operator holds before the person
who is in the hypnotic state an ordinary bakelite
fountain pen or one made of black rubber or one
made of silver metal, and tells him it is a red-hot
piece of iron and suggests to him that he notice
its glowing redness, that he notice the little smoke
and heat radiating from it, he can feel the glow of
heat against his face as he stares at it, the hypnotic
subject does see psychologically a change in the
black or silver metal which he saw a few moments
before, or in whatever impression the fountain pen
made upon his mind. There is no change made in
the impression made upon the retina of the sul>-
ject’s eyeball. Physiologically and in accordance
with all of the laws of physics, a perfect image of
the innocent, cold fountain pen is truthfully cast
upon the retina of the eye. But in our normal
waking state as well as in any hypnotic or psychic
state, the process of “seeing" does not end at the
retina of the eye but really is only beginning there,
for nerve stimulations created by the image on the
retina have to be transferred to the psychic or
psychological and mental area of the brain and
[47]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
consciousness where “seeing” becomes more than
mere nerve impulses. Any injury or abnormal
physical condition that would disturb the normal
psychological functioning of this area of the brain
and consciousness can cause and often does cause
erroneous interpretations and translations of the
impression created on the retina of the eye, so that
a person who is not in a hypnotic sleep or not in
a state of suggestibility, or not in the hands of any
psychologist, could look at a piece of black rubber
the shape and size of a fountain pen and “see” a
black piece of metal becoming red hot or glowing
with red heat. If some other cause than the sug-
gestions of the operator had led the individual to
anticipate that he was going to be burned with a
red-hot piece of metal, or that there was such a
piece of metal in the room, or that it might be
brought before him for examination, or if he had
read and believed for a long time that on certain
occasions individuals were branded with a hot iron
on a certain day of the week when they were
found to be in certain cities or countries and with­
out employment or home or money, and he found
himself in a hospital or institution on such a day
of the week or year and in such an economical and
social condition and was suddenly taken into a
room and from some mysterious box the end of a
[48}
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
black fountain pen was brought before him and he
was asked what he was looking at, he might truth­
fully say that he was “seeing” a branding iron.
Just as a child of two years of age who had never
seen a fountain pen might look upon the fountain
pen suddenly held before him and call it a piece
of licorice candy, simply because while he was ac­
tually seeing the same thing that the adult saw,
his mind was unable to properly translate the im­
pression on the retina of his eyes into a truthful
interpretation.)
This matter of accepting an idea and having
that idea carry out its natural process is one of the
strange laws of our human brain and conscious­
ness. Whatever idea may be accepted by our brain
and our inner consciousness or psychic conscious­
ness or psychological processes of reasoning be­
comes a law unto us. But that law does not have
to be consciously carried out by us through any
further conscious efforts that include thinking,
analyzing or reasoning. Our inner consciousness
or psychic consciousness may do such reasoning
and analyzing, but if so, it does it so rapidly, so
instantaneously, that we are unaware of it and it
is a part of the processes of the subjective or in­
ner consciousness and not a part of the ob-
[49]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
jective or outer consciousness which we use in
other forms of reasoning and analyzing.
It is perfectly obvious that if one of us, in our
normal, natural waking state, should be shown an
ordinary black fountain pen, or let us say the end
of the cap that covers the fountain pen, and we
are told that it is a red-hot iron, our objective
reasoning faculties of the brain would immediately
begin to work and by analogy and comparisons
determine whether the fountain pen was a red-hot
iron or not. Such reasoning as the objective brain
and outer consciousness would do in such a case
would be dependent upon what education the
brain had in the past. Of course, if the brain of
the individual had never observed or seen a foun­
tain pen before, and if it had never seen a hot
piece of iron or any piece of metal that was red
hot, or even a piece of wood that was red hot, the
objective brain would have no means whereby it
could determine by comparison or analogy whether
the black object held in front of it was a piece of
red-hot metal or not. If he had no knowledge of
what was meant by a red-hot piece of metal, he
probably would not be disturbed in the least when
told that the object was going to be placed against
his skin. And even if he were told that the skin
would burn, and he had never had any previous
[ w]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
burn of any kind, he would not show any reac­
tion to the suggestion or the idea and there would
not be the indications of pain and the twitching
of the muscles as in the case with the individual
who was in the hypnotic sleep. Certainly he
would feel the fountain pen against his flesh and
it might be of such a moderate temperature that
even that impression would be very mild. And if
he were blindfolded he probably would not be able
to tell just where the rubber shell of the pen was
touching him. If, on the other hand, the device
was a piece of hot metal, regardless of whether he
had ever been burned before or knew anything
of the experience of heat against his flesh, the
metal would proceed to burn the flesh and there
would be all of the twitchings and anguishes of
pain manifested in the case with the cool foun-
tai pen touching the arm of the one in the hyp­
notic sleep.
W e see, therefore, that an idea implanted in
our mind either through observation or through
suggestion in the form of words or gestures or
otherwise is interpreted by us in the light of our
knowledge and past experiences. This was re­
markably illustrated in the case of that famous
explorer, Livingstone, who went into Africa and
on one occasion highly amused the natives by
Г*11
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
telling them that their heavy, ponderous elephants
were able to walk on the surface of frozen water
in North America, or in other northern lands.
Since even well-trampled ground sank beneath
their tread, they could not conceive of a creature
weighing many tons walking upon the surface of
water without sinking a quarter of an inch into it.
Since Livingstone's constant reference to frozen
water meant absolutely nothing to natives who
had never seen frozen water or “hard” water as
they interpreted his words to mean, they simply
could not believe that water ever became hard
enough or solid enough to hold such heavy crea­
tures, and therefore they could not accept his state­
ment. The words “frozen" and “ice” meant noth­
ing to those who had never seen or experienced
these things.
So we find that one of the other strange laws
of our human mind and consciousness is that
which relates to our individual interpretation of
ideas, including things we see or hear, feel, smell
or taste. W e know when a thing is hot only by
our experience with things that are colder, things
that are very cold, and things that are very warm.
W e know only what hard and soft may mean by
having had experience with variations in density
of articles and variations in the qualities of hard-
[52]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
ness and softness. It is not true that two indi-
viduals will look at the same object and “see” pre­
cisely the same thing. Even if there were no
variation in the physical impressions cast upon the
retina of the eye through light or sight waves,
there would still be a difference in the interpreta­
tion of those impressions due to a difference in
understanding of them because of a difference in
education, training, reasoning, and so forth.
But when an idea is accepted by the inner con­
sciousness or the mind and is translated into an
understanding of its own, in accordance with its
own education and experiences of life, it then be­
comes to that individual a living actual thing, in
nature and quality, according to the interpretation
that the individual’s consciousness has given it.
From that moment on this living thing is a reality
and an actuality, or an actuality with all of the
realism that it is possible for it to have in the mind
and consciousness of that individual. And this
living thing will then produce in the consciousness
of the individual all of the actions and reactions
that the individual believes and understands should
follow thereafter or therefrom.
All of science’s investigations and studies of the
mental actions and physiological reactions in the
human body have shown that nature’s regular
[ « ]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
processes are carried out logically and to the
proper conclusion in every case where the idea has
been accepted by the mind regardless of whether
there was an actuality or a mere illusion or hallu-
cination back of the idea. In other words, if the
mind accepted the idea that the fountain pen was
a red'hot iron that would burn, the idea became a
law and it became a law not only to the conscious­
ness of the individual but to all of nature’s physio­
logical processes, and so long as a red-hot iron
will burn the tissue of the human body the pro­
cess of burning will be carried out, whether the
instrument of cause or the instrument of the idea
in the mind was an actuality or an illusion.
As just one more illustration of this wonderful
process of the consciousness in the human body
and the power of the mind regulating and control­
ling the physiological processes of the body, or the
matter of which the body is composed, let me cite
the long list of experiments with water made in
various psychological clinics in America and
abroad. W ith various types of individuals placed
in the satisfactory middle stage of hypnosis, the
temperature of the mouth of each individual was
taken with a two-minute thermometer and care­
fully established by verification on the part of a
number of witnesses. Then an empty glass was
[54]
i
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
held before the patient's eyes and he was told that
it was Allied with cold, refreshing water. After a
moment’s pause in which to allow this idea to be­
come accepted and fixed in the mind, he was told
to take a drink of the water and refresh himself.
The patient would then lift the glass to his lips,
bend the head backwards a little, and proceed to
swallow the water. A careful counting would
show that a swallow was taken about every two
and a half to four seconds, and that all the muscles
of the throat would act in the typical manner of
swallowing water, and one could also see the en­
largement of the throat where the water was
passing downward in action just as in genuine
cases of swallowing real water. (If you are un­
aware of the uniqueness of such a test, hold an
empty glass to your own lips and try to imitate a
person swallowing water in the normal way, and
you will find that it is very difficult to operate
the muscles in such a manner and that there is a
long pause between each swallow.) After the
patient had what he considered a sufficient drink
he would hand the glass back to the operator and
smack his lips and in every other manner express
and show his appreciation of the cold drink. To
prove that his appreciation and experience were
not wholly imaginary, based only on the statement
£»»}
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
of the operator, the thermometer was immediately
placed in the mouth again and another two-minute
reading taken, resulting in a showing of a lowering
of the temperature of the mouth, sometimes as
greatly as twenty to twenty-five degrees, but al­
ways more than ten degrees. Tests were made at
other times to show and conclusively prove that
a person in the normal waking state, holding an
empty glass to the lips and trying to drink imagin­
ary water, would not draw into the mouth cooling
air currents sufficient to reduce the temperature of
the mouth more than possibly two degrees.
Whence came, therefore, the drop in temperature
or the cooling effect on the tissues and air in the
mouth of those persons who drank water from an
empty glass? The only possible answer, and one
which is in harmony with all of the experiments
that have been made in psychological and psycho­
pathic institutions, including those of the Rosi-
crucian Order and the Rose-Croix University at
San Jose, California, is that when the individual
accepted the idea that he held in his hand a glass
of cold, refreshing water and proceeded to drink it,
the idea of cold water coming out of the glass was
not merely an idea but a law to all of the natural
processes of nature, and to all of the laws con­
trolling the matter and material of his body.
[56}
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
Therefore, the law of the idea in his mind pro­
ceeded to work in its logical steps and manner of
procedure. The muscles carried the water down
the throat with the same periodic rhythmic motion
with which they always function when actually
drinking real water. The lowering of the tempera­
ture in the mouth was but another logical step in
the process and not a secondary thought on the
part of the patient or the operator. The degree
of temperature, however, was affected by the
patient’s interpretation of what was meant by “a
glass of cold refreshing water.” If to him the only
refreshing drink in the form of water was one of
ice water, perhaps with ice floating around in it,
then that would be the kind of water he would
drink and that would be its temperature, with a
resulting reduction of the temperature in the
mouth to a very low degree. If, on the other hand,
he was not particularly fond of ice water, but en­
joyed a drink of cold water just as it comes from
the average faucet, then that would be the stan­
dard and quality of the idea of water which he
would drink. And that would also be the deter­
mining factor of the degree of temperature that
would register in his mouth.
Here we are face to face, therefore, with some
of the strangest laws of God and the universe, but
[57}
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
not laws that keep the planets in their courses or
cause the earth to move so rhythmically and
steadily on its axis or the comets to fulfill their
cycles to the precise hour and minute, nor are
these the strange laws that govern and control the
Cosmic rays and the persistency of racial charac­
teristics in the complex processes of human bi­
ology. They are not laws that relate to the un­
fathomable mysteries of distant space, but laws
that relate to our inner selves, our own bodies,
our own lives, our very existence. They are laws
with which we have to deal minute after minute,
day after day, throughout our lives. They are
laws that we ought to be more familiar with than
any other laws in the universe. While scientists
and explorers may go searching for facts about
human existence on the planet Mars or the Moon,
or while other explorers may excavate and delve
deeply into the buried tombs of Egypt and the for­
gotten temples of Mesopotamia, few indeed in
comparison are giving thought or time to the ex­
ploration of the human consciousness and the
divine mind in man. While we seek mysteries in
remote and distant places, and while we love to
fathom the strange and veiled things of the past
and the possible future, we overlook entirely a
marvelous field of exploration that lies within us,
[58]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
and which we can open easily by sitting down
comfortably in our own homes and turning our
thoughts inwardly and just analyzing the objects
that we bring from within the tomb of the self
that constitutes the real being.
Strangest of all laws within the body of man!
Whatever idea is accepted by our minds and con'
sciousness without suspicion, without doubt, with-
out challenge or without question becomes a law
unto our bodies and proceeds to carry out its
nature, its purpose, and its natural processes.
Whatever idea is acceptable to us translates itself
from a purely mental state into a dynamic physical
power and force that carries on, unfolds, develops,
and proceeds in accordance with principles beyond
our control unless we use the same psychological
processes to frustrate its activities that were used
to bring the idea into existence.
W e see, therefore, that man’s life and happi'
ness, his health and enjoyment of the things that
God has provided, are dependent upon his accep-
tance of ideas, his understanding of them, his
interpretation, and his unconscious submission to
their natural development.
Therein lies the secret of mental poisoning!
V V V
[ Г9Ј
Se c t io n V
METHODS OF ADM INISTERING
M ENTAL POISONING
HE human mind has many strange charac-
teristics, and many astonishing tendencies.
Two of these have a direct bearing upon
our subject. The first is that the human
mind and consciousness has a tendency,
a very definite impulse, to believe and accept as
truth what it wants to believe, or what it feels is
a compliment to its ability to reason and reach
correct conclusions. The second is an ever-present
inclination to accept as a belief, as a truth, as an
unquestionable principle, an idea or a conclusion
that agrees with another idea or group of ideas
previously established in the mind or consciousness
from personal experiences.
Either as a part of these two tendencies, or per­
haps constituting a third inclination, is that weak­
ness on the part of the human mind and conscious­
ness to prefer to accept and adopt an extraordi­
nary or an uncommon, unique, or distinctly dif­
ferent idea or belief about certain matters, if this
[6i]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
unusual idea or belief is compatible with or in
harmony with the previous beliefs and ideas held
by the mind. In other words, this third tendency,
which is really a weakness, is one that seems to give
the mind and consciousness of an individual a sort
of vainglorious satisfaction in feeling that the in'
dividual’s previous reasoning and analysis of ideas
was better than that of others, or superior to that
of others because it has reached a unique conclu-
sion that is different from the opinions held by the
mass mind. It is a sort of satisfaction that is bom
out of such reasoning as: My opinion is right be'
cause it is different from the mass, and proves that
I am better in my reasoning, more keen or astute
in my logical analysis of things, and broader in
my mental conception of facts and principles.
Taking this last or third tendency and uniting
it with the other two tendencies, we find that the
human mind, even in the most uneducated, il'
literate, and poorly prepared individual, likes to
think of itself as being superior in many respects
to the mind of the average person with whom it
comes in contact. Such persons love to read the
kind of mystery story or detective tale that de'
liberately reveals between the lines of the first
chapter the real personality of the criminal, and
yet pretends to include sufficient veiling to make
[62]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
the reader believe, when he astutely discerns the
criminal in the first chapter, that the discovery
was due to his superior intellect and ability to
analyze, and not to any trickery on the part of
the writer. But this sort of psychological legerde-
main compliments the reader, and when he dis­
covers in the last chapter that his astuteness led
him to the right conclusion at the very beginning
of the story, he is ready to compliment the writer
and acclaim him a clever story teller and to want
to buy and read no other mystery stories except
those written by him.
Tin's same weakness tends to make the indi­
vidual attribute supernatural causes as the ex­
planation of the most common events of life rather
than natural causes, solely because the mass mind
will look upon the matter differently and cast aside
all supernatural considerations. Even when his
conclusion of supernatural causes and conditions
is scientifically upset, he is ready to denounce the
scientists as ignorant, prejudiced, and acclaim him­
self the better judge. Such persons are otherwise
normal in all of their personal daily affairs and in
all of their casual thinking and acting, but they
love the mysterious because it is so easy to attrib­
ute puzzling situations and conditions to un­
known, arcane, archaic, or supernatural laws and
tea]
even to miracles. In matters of health or business,
they are more ready to believe that their trials,
troubles and tribulations are the result of some
vague, indefinite, psychic, Cosmic, spiritualistic,
or mysterious law or principle at work than to
any natural laws set into motion by their own
ignorance or indifference or interference with
natural law. They would rather believe that the
reason the cold that has been hanging fast to them
and giving them an annoying pain in the chest for
so many months is not the result of neglect and
indifference on their part, nor due to the fact that
they have tried to medicate themselves with
patented concoctions which they have decided up-
on after the exercise of their superior reasoning
abilities, nor to the fact that they have failed to
secure proper medical advice and treatment, but
to some mysterious moon ray, sun-spot beam,
planetary conjunction, or psychic visitation. When
they are not believers in these sorts of superstitious
principles and powers, they are prone to believe
that the “unusualness” of their cold-—
insofar as it
has lingered longer than usually, and has persisted
in the face of all forms of self-medication—is due
to some strange and weird phenomenon of nature,
such as an unsuspected poison escaping from the
illuminating gas used in the home for cooking, or
[64]
the unsuspected odor or other vibrations from
some growing plant that has been within the liv­
ing rooms for a year or more, or an unnoticed or
undetected escape of sewer gas that pervades their
home although producing no effect in adjoining
homes. Such persons love to read newspaper ad­
vertisements describing patent medicines or com­
mercialized therapeutic specifics that outline the
strange symptoms of peculiar maladies. And when
they find a suggestion in these advertisements to
the effect that some very unusual or uncommon
supernatural or mysterious cause may underlie
their illness, unsuspected by physicians or scien­
tists, they are prone to accept such ideas because
they are compatible with ideas previously adopted
through their own reasoning.
W hether we like to admit it or not, all of us
are prone to think that our own minds, even when
we admit that we have not had all of the schooling
and education that some have had, are just a little
better in certain ways and particularly in discern­
ing the truth behind the veil of mystery. W e hesi­
tate to accept the common opinion, the general
opinion, the universal conclusion, the most popu­
larly adopted idea, because doing so is not any
compliment to our own reasoning and is never a
demonstration of superior thinking. In fact, ac-
[6*]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
cepting the general opinion and conclusion regard'
ing any matter always seems to be a frank admis-
sion of mental weakness on our part. Therefore,
if out of the density and mystery of the complex
principles of the universe we can suddenly reach
out and pluck a new idea that seems logically to
explain the problem at hand, and which grows in
its possible correctness the longer we think of it,
we like to do so because this is a compliment to
our ability to fathom the mysteries of life and to
secure and obtain truth through an independent
channel. W e feel that we are achieving greatness
of mind, and incidentally attuning ourselves with
the marvels of the unrevealed universe by having
stolen from its starry diadem one of its jewels in
the form of an unique and original thought.
But these very weaknesses and tendencies on
the part of the human mind and consciousness
constitute an open portal, an open doorway to the
influx and the incoming of strange ideas, and
these fertilize the soil of our consciousness and
make it highly susceptible to mental poisoning.
Unfortunately for the human race, the various
kinds of mental poisoning that can ruin and wreck
a human life do not have to be administered vio­
lently, nor does the individual about to be poisoned
have to become hypnotized and placed in an in-
[66]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
duced sleep nor physically and mentally drugged
or overcome in order to have the mental poisoning
enter the innermost recesses of the consciousness
and begin its destructive work.
It may seem like a paradox and a horrifying
incongruity, but it is the truth, that the most
violent and virulent of poisons possible to intro­
duce into the human system, into the human mind,
consciousness and body, are more easily adminis­
tered, more readily accepted, more thoroughly ab­
sorbed, and more quickly set into disastrous opera­
tion than any of the material or chemical poisons
known to man, and against which man has spent
centuries of time and thought in seeking antidotes
and methods of immunity and abortion. He has
consistently fought against the germs, microbes,
bacilli, and all of the destructive elements that
might affect his body slowly or moderately, but he
has not spent even a few minutes’ thought in mak­
ing himself immune to the worst of all poisons.
If it were not for the existence of the weakness
and tendencies explained above, and for man’s
readiness to accept mental poisoning, he would not
be the victim of the most serious injustices ever
committed by man upon man.
Now let us examine some of the types of mental
poisons and the manner in which they are ad-
[67]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
ministered. First we have the mental poison that
produces diseases of the body or certain physical
and mental handicaps in the form of chronic com
ditions. W e might call this type of poison Class
“A ”—not because it is the highest type, the most
popular form, or the most universally adminis--
tered, but simply because it stands foremost in the
ease of administration, and is the most horrible in
results.
The methods of administering this poison are
many, but they fall into three forms: audible sug'
gestions and comments, visual suggestions, or the
pictorial and mental. W e will proceed with a few
typical illustrations.
Number One is a woman nineteen years of age,
so normally healthful that any standard insurance
company will willingly and readily take a risk on
her life by issuing a policy for twenty thousand
dollars. She has never been seriously ill, has not
inherited anything of serious nature, is living a
normal natural life, and her chances of living to
an old age are excellent. She has been riding to
work on a trolley car every morning for thirteen
months, often catching the same car each morning
and becoming familiar by sight with a large nurm
ber of passengers who have been taking the same
car in the same direction day after day. She has
[68]
noticed for a number of months that a young man
who generally sat in the same corner of the car
reading the newspaper had found it necessary for
some reason to get up from his seat at the end
of the first half hour of the ride and stand on the
rear platform, taking deep breaths. A t first she
wondered whether it was purely physical culture
exercise, but her reasoning, always seeking a more
mysterious explanation than a common-sense one,
told her that he could do the exercises at home
and would not have to do them on a street car.
Her astute reasoning, again seeking for the un­
usual cause and the unique or original conclusion,
decided that perhaps he was afraid of infection
and preferred to have better air entering his lungs.
This thought brought from the memory storehouse
of the young woman, as a recollection, the fact that
he had always risen and gone on the rear platform
after the car was full of passengers and really
overcrowded.
W ith this suspicion in her mind, she seemed to
notice—with that mental ability that wants to build
up a mysterious and agreeable conclusion to the
previous thoughts—that he was becoming a little
paler each day, and seemed to be a little weaker
when he rose from his seat and forced his way
out to the rear platform. And did he not seem to
[69]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
stagger a little with weakness on several occasions
when he stepped from the trolley car platform at
the end of the trip? Then one day a woman of
about forty years of age seated at the opposite end
of the trolley car fainted. Her face appeared to
be as pale as that of the young man on the rear
platform. She was taken from the car to a nearby
drugstore to be revived and cared for, and the
trolley and its passengers went on.
The next day she was back in her usual posi-
tion in the car, but did she not seem to be a little
paler than on previous days? Then one morning
our young lady noticed that both the young man
and the woman of forty were absent. W hat could
have happened? The desire to solve a mystery
arose in the young girl’s consciousness; the desire
to have a real mystery come out of a problem rose
to supreme heights. The absence of these two
persons m u s t be connected with all of the preced­
ing incidents that had been noticed. Illness of
some kind had overcome them, and that illness had
been something contacted in the car, slowly but
surely.
The young woman reached her office and began
to reason. W as it true that overcrowded places
were incubators of germs and disease? W ere the
editorial writers and health writers in popular
П0]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
magazines correct in their contentions? W as she
herself becoming affected by this very injurious
and unhealthy ride every morning? She rushed
to a mirror to observe her complexion. Yes, she
was paler than she should be! Should she go and
see a doctor? W hat could she tell him? She had
no symptoms, no aches or pains, and of course he
would not believe the strange and mysterious fact
that she had developed in her mind from careful
observation. He might even laugh at her idea. She
would wait and see if anyone else became ill.
Three days later, in leaving the trolley car, she
determined to settle the mystery by asking the
conductor if he knew why the two persons no
longer rode with him on that car. His answer:
“The young man died two days ago from a
gradual weakening of his heart and lungs. His
brother, a policeman who rides sometimes on this
car, later in the morning, told me that the young
fellow died before they could determine whether
it was tuberculosis of an unsuspected nature or
heart disease. The only thing they were sure of
was that he had picked up some germs during the
day while going to or from work or while at work.
The woman, I understand, is sick with scarlet
fever which she contacted somewhere during the
past few weeks. The Board of Health was very
[ 7 1 ]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
much concerned over the fact that she was riding
up and down in this car for many days while she
was in the early stages of the disease. The car has
been disinfected three times.”
Horrors! The young woman’s worst suspicions
were confirmed. Riding in the trolley car was
more than dangerous. It was suicide. No wonder
she looked so pale. During that morning there
were three distinct times when she felt a sort of
swimming sensation, a dizziness, a weakness in
her head and body. A t noontime she spoke to a
woman friend about it. Said the woman friend:
“Didn’t you see in the papers that there was an
epidemic of scarlet fever in the Fulton section of
the city, and isn’t that where your trolley car
starts from each morning with some of its passes
gers in it? Don’t you know that more diseases are
picked up in subways, elevated trains and trolley
cars in New York and other cities than anywhere
else? W hy these terrible germs are picked up so
gradually that you never notice you are becoming
sick until finally you see a little paleness coming
in your face, and then some day you begin to feel
a dizziness and a weakness of the brain and body.
That weakness means that the disease has attacked
the brain, and then it is too late for anyone to do
anything. Even inoculation cannot save you when
[72]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
the brain becomes affected through your breathing
and smelling of the germs in such crowded places
with such foul air. I hope that you never contact
any of the germs, because you are so young, and
young people between seventeen and twenty gen'
erally die of scarlet fever. I ought to know, be-
cause I lost a sister who was a school teacher, and
who developed the germs in just that manner from
some of the pupils in her class. They were saved,
but my twenty'year'dd sister died.”
Three days later the young lady began to have
daily fainting spells and spells of dizziness. Hoping
that she might be saved without the painful pn>
cess of inoculations and spinal or other injections,
she went to a physician, merely telling him of her
symptoms and not of her suspicions. Finding no
real cause for dizziness, he said: “There seems to
be some mysterious or subtle influence affecting
your nervous system, and I must wait until some'
thing more develops before I can give you a cor'
rect diagnosis, but in the meantime I will give you
this prescription which will purge your system and
cleanse your blood.”
As each day passed, the fainting spells became
worse, the face paler, the body weaker. In two
weeks the young woman was bedfast, with fever,
a wandering mind, deliriums, a rapid pulse, a wor'
[73]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
ried family. Finally, in one of her spells of de-
lirium, she muttered, “I know it is scarlet fever.
I got it in the car, but I must not let anyone know.
Don’t tell the doctor! Two of them have died; I
will be the next.” The family told the physician
of the strange words they had heard her utter.
The next day the girl heard the physician say in
a whisper, just outside the door of her room: “If
it is scarlet fever, it is of the brain-fever classifica­
tion, and at her age may be fatal. She must have
reached the crisis by this time, and if she has, she
may become worse every minute and must be care­
fully watched tonight!” W ithin twenty-four hours
the young woman was in such deliriums that the
family became frantic and sent for a specialist,
who recognized in her mutterings the symptoms
of something psychological rather than physiologi­
cal. He saw the symptoms of the form of mental
poisoning that obsessed her. It was like a demon
within her consciousness bent on destroying her
from within. It was like some evil spirit that had
come upon her which must be destroyed in the
same manner that Jesus enjoined His disciples to
cast out evil spirits and demons in order that the
sick might become healed and cured.
The specialist secured the cooperation of an
eminent psychologist, and with the help of the
[74]
_
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
physician, the three were able to gradually bring
the young woman back to health. For months
there lingered in the mind and consciousness of the
young woman the horrible picture of germs float­
ing around in the trolley car entering her body
through the nostrils and the mouth, destroying the
blood cells, attacking the brain tissues, gradually
casting her mind into a state of coma where she
was rescued by what was called a miracle.
When was the mental poison administered, and
how? The first dose of the poison was adminis­
tered by the conductor, by his casual, logical story
that seemed to fill in the gaps in the mystery that
she had created in her own mind. Everything the
conductor told her fitted in magnificently with her
own conclusions. Therefore, his story must be
the truth! The second administration was a visual
one of her own appearance, then a sensual one of
her own weakness and dizziness. But the most
overpowering draft of the mental poison was ad­
ministered by the woman friend who cleverly
(though certainly not maliciously) described the
manner in which the scarlet fever “germ” can at­
tack the brain, and how it can be picked up in
trolley cars and subways and how it was already
spreading in the city, especially that part from
which the trolley came, and how her sister had
[75]
died because she was twenty years of age! And
then the final dose of the poison was administered
by the physician who uncautiously, unthinkingly,
made statements in the presence of the keen hear*
ing of the suspicious girl. Few persons realize how
keen is the hearing of the sick patient who is fear'
ful that the truth has not been told to him, or that
there is some mysterious element about his condi'
tion. The one whose mind is weakened, or the
one whose mind is broken down, who appears to
be mentally stupid, unsound or insane, is keenly
aware of every sound, every motion, every gesture,
every suggestion, every thought.
And so the young woman was about to go to
her grave, not from imaginary conditions but from
actual ones. Her weaknesses, her fevers, her de-
liriums, were not hallucinations, not mere mental
states that psychological suggestions would wipe
out in a few hours or that mental affirmations
would correct in a few days. They were physio*
logical, pathological conditions that had a real
histology back of them, and yet could not be cor­
rected by the ordinary or usual medical system of
therapy. There is no known drug or herbal extract
or material essence or compound that is a true
antidote for mental poison. It can be neutralized
and overcome only by an antidote of a sane mental
[76]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
nature, divinely inspired, properly administered by
sympathetic and loving minds who understand and
are prepared to fight the processes of mental poi-
soning. Sometimes the efforts of those who believe
that they can overcome this poison with counter­
suggestions, with joking and laughing attitudes,
with statistics and arguments, simply cause the
administration of more poisoning by leading the
patient to think that they suspect the mind of the
patient is weak or unsound and that such argu­
ments and methods of counteraction are necessary;
or they cause the patient to think that the case is
more serious than it appears and is therefore be­
yond the hope of medicine or surgery and that
some unusual or mysterious mental process must
be used to fight it. So the most loving and sympa­
thetic and kindly of friends and professional people
with the best intentions may become poisonous,
and administrators of mental poisoning, without
intention.
Another illustration, quite common and uni­
versal, is that of an actual physical weakness of
more or less common cause, existing in the body
of one who does not suspect the real nature but
reads advertisements and health articles in an at­
tempt to diagnose the conditions and discover a
real cause for the occasional pains or symptoms.
[ 7 7 ]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
The longer the search for a correct diagnosis, and
the longer remedies are tried without success, the
more sure becomes the opinion that the illness is
of a very deep nature and wholly uncommon, and
the result of some strange or peculiar combination
of conditions. This conclusion is accepted by the
m in d a n d causes reactions, as explained in the
preceding section of this book, with the result that
actual physiological complications are set up that
are difficult to analyze, and more difficult to treat.
The patient then begins to seek for an under-
standing by searching among the accounts and
records, the explanations and pictures of rare
diseases. Suddenly a series of symptoms are pre­
sented in some patent medicine advertisement or
some health article that wholly agree with the
symptoms which the patient has suspected and
immediately there is established a conviction that
the disease referred to in the advertisement or
news article is identical with the one from which
the patient now suffers. The acceptance of such
a thought establishes a law of action in the body
and the mind proceeds to build up and create the
identical symptoms which have been mentally
accepted.
In the still further search for more light and
information, the patient rejects every explanation
[78]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
that attributes the pains and conditions to natural
causes easily overcome, and looks only for those
causes and conditions which are deep-rooted, mys­
terious, and always serious and vital. Hour after
hour the mind of the patient is concentrated
wholly upon that area or that part of the body
where the disease is suspected of existing. The
pains may be general throughout the torso of the
body. They may at times seem like cramps. There
may be a cutting sensation like those produced by
gastritis, or so-called gas in the intestines, or by
cold and inflammation of the intestines, or by any
number of other temporary or common abnormal
conditions or causes of abnormal conditions. But
the mind is concentrated upon the gall sac with
the conviction that there are stones in the sac,
and that these are solely responsible in accordance
wdth what the patient has read and then concluded
in her mind. Every ache and pain in any part of
the body is immediately traced mentally to the gall
sac. Every flush of the temperature of the blood,
every little mental excitement that causes a change
in the pulse, is immediately attributed to the gall
sac and the presence of stones in it. Л search is
made through medical books in libraries, through
all the health magazines sold on the newsstands,
through every patent medicine circular or pam-
[79]
phlet that may be secured, for more light on the
subject of gall stones. Every unusual word or
every word susceptible of having a double mean'
ing is created into a definition or term for gall
stones. Every symptom described that the patient
does not have is cast aside as inconsequential.
Every symptom mentioned that is somewhat like
those which the patient has is enlarged and magni'
fied into a symptom of an identical nature. The
descriptions of the gall stones in their process of
formation are visualized and recreated in the mind
and finally by mental reaction actually created in
the gall sac. The gall sac does not become affected,
not in the manner that the patient believes, not
to the extent that the patient has suspected, but
through mental poisoning, with all of the symp*
toms and all of the pathological and physiological
conditions and actions and reactions that any
patient has ever suffered from gall stones. Day
after day the stories of other persons suffering
from gall stones, the sudden deaths of persons
suffering from unknown conditions, the pains of
years ago, the unusual diseases of the grandfather
and the grandmother, and hundreds of other things
are focused into one point within the patient’s
body—the gall sac, with the stones in it. And day
by day the mental poison is administered by read'
[80]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
ing, hearing of stories and reports of statistics, and
by the illogical reasoning of the patient. The
patient becomes a chronic sufferer, and the fact
that physicians can do nothing for her, can find
no actual gall stones, or can find nothing that will
affect the pains in the gall sac or the rest of the
body, constitute more proof that the condition is
serious and therefore deeply hidden. Л chronic
condition is established, and it grows and grows,
and as long as the mind of the patient is capable
of accepting and receiving more mental poison, the
patient will become worse and worse until transfi
tion results.
But the worst cases of mental poisoning are
those that are either deliberately, maliciously, or
unsympathetically administered by friends or ac*
quaintances, who pretend to have knowledge or
who pretend to have a keen insight into the mys'
teries of health and disease, and who are so glib
and voluble in their explanations and so ready to
tell another person why they have a slight pain
or a slight ache, or a slight abnormality.
When we realise that there is no such thing as
a perfectly normal body at any age, or that there
is no time at any hour of our lives when
every part of the body is in a perfectly normal
condition, and when there is no congestion, no
[81 ]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
clogging, no lack of anything, no overabundance of
anything, no pressure, no strain, no unnecessary
tenseness, no weakness; when we realize that each
and every one of us has some part of our body
just on the verge of resenting some violation of
nature or kicking back at some wrong that has
been committed, or protesting against some food
that has been eaten or some liquid that has been
drunk, and when we realize that there is hardly
a week in the year when some part of our body
and our system is not fighting some germs that
have been taken in through breathing, drinking, or
eating, and that this tax upon the blood stream and
the heart may cause peculiar sensations that are
neither serious nor important, but which can be
easily interpreted as something wrong and direful,
it is not to be wondered at that the human mind
with its constant concern for health, with its fun'
damental desire to maintain and preserve the body
and all of its faculties and powers, is a fertile
ground for any idea or thought that may be ad'
ministered without careful analysis and mental
filtration.
It is, therefore, easy to understand how an indi'
vidual, anxious to know why or how certain light
or casual disturbances within his body may have
occurred, or what they are leading to, may be
[82]
wrongly directing his thinking and have his whole
process of analysis poisoned by the administra­
tion of mental poisoning at the hands of some
friend, some relative, some acquaintance, or even
some physician or scientist, who speaks un­
guardedly or unthinkingly, and who may acciden­
tally and innocently administer the most virulent
and destructive dosage of mental poison in a
casual remark, or in a long speech intended to
illuminate the mind of the patient.
Then there are those kindly women who love
to tell the expectant mother what dreadful days
await her, and of what serious complications are
liable to set in overnight, and of what unexpected
consequences may follow her perfectly normal and
natural condition! They delight in recounting to
the new mother, the inexperienced one, the hope­
ful and optimistic one, how serious a mistake it
is to be too optimistic and to count too much on
the assurances of the physician or to put any re­
liance upon the family history and ancestry. They
love to dig out of the misty, shadowy alcoves of
the past the few extraordinary and most unusual
cases that should have long been forgotten, and
most of which perhaps never happened, wherein
the healthful, normal expectant mother was sud­
denly visited by horrible complications that
[83]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
brought about blood poisoning or injury to the
mother and child resulting either in the birth of
an abnormal child or a monstrosity, or the death
of both mother and child. They love to empha-
size the fact that in the last fifty years there have
been several hundred strange deaths at the time
of confinement, without even mentioning that in
the same period of time there were perhaps a mil'
lion births that were perfectly normal, or without
mentioning the fact that in the unusual and dis­
astrous cases the mothers were of an abnormal
structure or of long diseased blood condition or of
most unusual inherited tendencies.
These administrators of mental poison seem to
be jealous of the possibility that the young and
innocent, trustful and hopeful expectant mother
before them may have that beautiful, healthful
normal confinement that the average woman has.
They seem to take a delight in seeing the brow
of the expectant mother wrinkle, the eyes sadden,
the lips quiver as they predict the horrible pos­
sibilities that may await her.
And woe be unto the poor young mother if she
admits to one of these mental poisoners that the
day before yesterday she hit her left elbow against
the faucet in the kitchen sink, or that in going
down the steps her left heel caught and for a
[84]
moment she stumbled, but never fell or never
struck her body; or that the other night in the
midst of her sleep she awakened by feeling a pe­
culiar pain for the first time between the ribs of
her left side, or that the little toe of her left foot
had a cramp in it, or that one of her teeth seemed
to ache a little the last few days. Each and every
one of these innocent incidents, wholly uncon­
nected with the process of gestation, are instantly
magnified and pointed out to the young hopeful
as sure indications of a serious situation, and inci­
dents are related where persons of their acquaint­
ance who had similar pains, aches, knocks or
bruises had the most horrible results in the con­
finement room of the hospital. They love to see
the young mother walking away burdened as with
a heavy cross from the dose of mental poison they
have just administered. And if that poor mother
does have a little more pain or some little unfor­
tunate incident connected with the birth of her
child that neither physicians nor nurses think seri­
ously enough of to tabulate in their reports, one
of the administrators of the mental poisoning is
sure to seize hold of it and say, “I told her so, and
she will have even worse than that with her child!”
And the story will go around to other expectant
mothers, with the astonishing claim that her pre-
[85]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
vious predictions to other expectant mothers had
been verified, and thus the dose of poison to the
second one is strengthened by little incidents that
occur during the birth of the child in the first case
of poison.
And there are on record plenty of those other
cases of mental poisoning where a malicious mind,
a demon incarnate if ever there were such a thing,
has gone forth to ruin and destroy the life of a
friend or foe, of an acquaintance, of one who has
crossed his or her path. Both men and women
have deliberately concocted dosages of mental poi-
son and have gone out of their way to administer
them to the innocent victims. They have not only
sown seeds of distrust in the minds of those who
have had faith and confidence in employees and
friends, but they have deliberately served mental
potions of virulent poison in the form of sugges­
tions that had all of the semblance of truthfulness,
and which would find some verification in plausi­
bility in the mind of the victim until he or she
would say unto himself: “He is right! I have never
thought before of that fact and this fact and the
other fact as being connected, but now I see how
they are, and I see now that I have been and still
am a victim of conditions over which I have no
control, and which will guide me into the gutter,
[86]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
wreck my life, disgrace me and my family, and
bring complete ruination. It is too late; I am
done for.”
In twenty-five years or more, during which men
and women of all types, of all walks of life, of all
professions and social standing have written to me
of their problems and have interviewed me, seeking
as the last straw a way out of their horrible dilem­
mas, I have found that fully seventy-five percent
of them were suffering more from conditions that
did not exist, except in their minds, than from any­
thing else. Even when their situations or condi­
tions were founded upon some actual occurrence
that was in itself more or less direful, the way out
of the problem, the solution of it, the logical,
reasonable correction and alteration of the condi­
tions was wholly held up, completely inhibited,
and fearfully suspected, because of some admini­
stration of mental poison on the part of someone
who wanted them to be hopeless, despondent, pes­
simistic and hesitant in attempting to redeem them­
selves or bring about any change in the unhappy
conditions. I have found them held in the grasp
of false beliefs administered in a poisoning manner
to such a degree that they could not even see their
own problems in the proper light, that they had no
longer had any faith in kith or kin, in friend or
[87]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
even in professional and expert guidance and ad'
vice. Yes, I have even found them doubting the
existence of God, or that there was any mercy or
justice in the world.
While it is true that many of us with the most
kindly, loving and eleemosynary natures may at
times make a remark or offer a suggestion or send
forth a thought or an idea or a mental picture that
is immediately misunderstood or misinterpreted
and turned into a dose of poison that begins at
once its process of inhabiting and affecting the
mind of our listener, it only illustrates the necessity
that exists for our careful consideration of the
thoughts we create in our own minds, and which
we allow to escape in the presence of others in
the form of words or gestures or subtle suggestions
of one form or another.
I recall one time being at the bedside of a
woman who had been ill long enough to suspect
that her heart was weakening, and that the end
was close at hand. She insisted that the nurse call
for a physician at once to test her heart and her
breathing. As I stood by I saw the physician enter
the room and take from the pocket of his large
white smock a folded stethoscope. I saw him try
to rapidly adjust it and put it into working condh
tion, and hurriedly apply it over her heart while
[88]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
he tried to listen. But I saw that one of the pieces
of rubber tubing was hopelessly twisted, and as he
tried to listen he suddenly saw that himself and
rapidly jerked the stethoscope from his ears and
from the body of the patient. He threw it toward
the nurse with a whispered request that she go
out of the room and get him another one. The
patient, who had been watching the physician
with that extreme anxiety that bordered on the
verge of ultimate mental strain, saw him jerk the
instrument away and turn toward the nurse with
a dissatisfied attitude, and she immediately ex-
claimed: “Oh my God, is it too late?” And she
immediately went into a mental and physical state
that bordered on a coma, and she had so shocked
and poisoned herself by accepting a dose of poison
that was not intended to be such that it was many
weeks before she was restored to normal condi'
tions, and she might very easily have passed
through transition at the moment she threw her-
self into the hysterics. The kindly physician did
not know that his unfortunate action in pulling
away the stethoscope and casting it at the nurse
back of him was a mental suggestion to the patient
that her heart had stopped, that he could not hear
the heart, and that there was no use in trying to
hear it. Such is the readiness of the human mind
[89]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
not only to accept subtle suggestions, but to mis'
interpret them, and to adopt them as a law, a com'
mand to the physical body to abide by the conclu'
sion of the suggestion.
For these reasons and many more it behooves
every man and woman carefully to guard his
thoughts, his words, his gestures, and his actions.
The human mind is more sensitive than either the
most sensitive of photographic films or the most
sensitive of microphones. Care is taken in the
vicinity of every moving picture studio that auto-
mobiles on the highway are stopped, that persons
who are hammering out of doors or walking on
graveled paths or whispering or slightly coughing,
become still and silent and motionless, until a
whistle is blown or a bell is rung indicating that
the microphone is no longer in operation. It will
pick up delicate sounds from hundreds of feet
away and ruin the scenes under production. The
new candid cameras with their ultra'sensitive lens
and films will register in one-hundredth of a
second the slightest motion, even in shady or
dimly lighted places. But the quickness of the lens
and the film and the sharpness and keenness of the
microphone are as nothing compared to the power
of registration possessed by the human mind. It
can see in the look and glance of one eye toward
[90]
M E N T A L P O I S O N I N G
another, in the quivering of a lip ,in the trembling
of a hand, in the tone of a voice, in the choice of
words, in the connection of ideas, expressed or
gestured, a meaning, an interpretation, a sugges-
tion, that may be like unto the most powerful of
destructive winds. On the other hand, we also
possess, through these same mental powers and
faculties, the abilities to send forth good, construe-
tive, cleansing, recreating, regenerating ideas, sug­
gestions,or commands—which are presented in the
same sincere and subtle manner so as not to arouse
suspicion of their purpose—that will bring health
and happiness, hope, ambition, and determination
to even the most afflicted and weakened human
beings. W e can dispense cheer instead of sorrow.
W e can administer hope instead of despondency.
W e can pour into the mind and consciousness of
another a smiling attitude, an increasing determi­
nation of will power, a picture of a bright future,
an open doorway to opportunity, a cleansing
power that will reach every part of the body and
a divine effulgence of spiritual joy that will
rejuvenate and redeem the most hopeless of
creatures.
And when, over thirty-one centuries ago, the
wise psychologists and Magians whose duty it was
to protect the tombs of their beloved kings, carved
{91]
upon King T ut’s tomb the warning, the command,
the positive statement, that whosoever wilfully
violated the sacred laws of Egypt and maliciously
forced themselves into the sealed chamber should
suffer the curse of the gods and die, they adminis'
tered then and there a dose of mental poison to mv
known future victims, who, by their own wilful
acts after having read the warning, deliberately
accepted the poison and allowed it to become a
law and a command unto them, even unto death.
V V V
[92]
Explanatory
THE ROSICRUCIAN ORDER
V
^ ^N T IC IP A T IN G questions which may be asked by
the readers of this book, the publishers wish to
announce that there is but one universal Rosicrudan Order
existing in the world today, united in its various juris­
dictions, and having one Supreme Council in accordance
with the original plan of the andent Rosicrudan mani­
festoes.
This international organization retains the andent tra­
ditions, teachings, prindples, and practical helpfulness
of the Brotherhood as founded centuries ago. It is known
as the Ancient Mysticai Order Rosae Crucis, which name
is abbreviated for popular use into AMORC. The North
and South American jurisdiction of this Order maintains
National Headquarters at San Jose, California, with
branches distributed throughout the United States, Canada,
and Mexico. Those interested in knowing more of the
history and present day offerings of the Rosicrucians may
have a free copy of the book entitled, “The Secret Herit­
age," by sending a definite request to Scribe W . C. A.,
AMORC Temple, Rosicrudan Park, San Jose, California.
[93]
V V V
The Rosicrucian Library
Consists of a number of unique books which are described
in the following pages, and which may be
purchased from the
ROSICRUCIAN SUPPLY BUREAU
San Jose, C alifornia.
V V V
[94]
V o l u m e I.
Rosicrucian Questions and Answers
W ith Complete History
of the Order
By Dr. H. S p en ce r Lewis, F. R. C.
HIS volume contains the first complete, authentic history
of the Rosicrucian Order from ancient times to the present
day. The history is divided into two sections, dealing with the
traditional facts and the established historical facts, and is replete
with interesting stories of romance, mystery, and fascinating
incidents.
This book is a valuable one since it is a constant reference
and guide book. Questions that arise in your mind regarding
many mystical and occult subjects ire answered in this volume.
For many centuries the strange, mysterious records of the Rosi-
crucians were dosed against any eyes but those of the high initi­
ates. Even editors of great encydopedias were unable to secure the
weird, fasdnating facts of the Rosicruaan activities in all parts
of the world. Now the whole story is outlined and it reads like
a story from the land of the "Arabian Nights."
The book also outlines answers to hundreds of questions
dealing with the history, work, teachings, benefits, and purposes
of the Rosicruaan fraternity. It is printed on fine paper, bound
in silk doth, and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, {2.00.
V
[M]
V o l u m e II.
Rosicrucian Principles for the
Home and Business
By Dr. H. S p e n c e r Lewis, F. R. C.
V
THIS volume contains such principles of practical Rosicrucian
teachings as are applicable to the solution of the every-day
problems of life in business and in the affairs of the home. It
deals exhaustively with the prevention of ill health, the curing
of many of the common ailments, and the attainment of peace
and happiness as well as the building up of the affairs of life
that deal with financial conditions. The book is filled with
hundreds of practical points dealing especially with the problems
of the average business man or person in business employ. It
points out the wrong and right way for the use of metaphysical
and mystical principles in attracting business, increasing one's
income, promoting business propositions, starting and bringing
into realisation new plans and ideas, and the attainment of the
highest ambitions in life.
“Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business” is not
theoretical but strictly practical, and is in its fourth edition,
having had a wide circulation and universal endorsement not
only among members of the organization, who have voluntarily
stated that they have greatly improved their lives through the
application of its suggestions, but among thousands of persons
outside of the organization. It has also been endorsed by busi­
ness organizations and business authorities.
The book is of standard size, well printed, bound in silk
cloth, and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.25.
[96]
V o l u m e III.
The Mystical Life of Jesus
By Dr . H . S p e n c e r Lewis, F . R . C .
V
HIS is the book that thousands have waited for—the real
Jesus revealed at last! It was in preparation for a number
of years and required a visit to Palestine and Egypt to secure a
verification of the strange facts contained in the ancient Rosicru-
cian and Essene Records.
It is a full account of the birth, youth, early manhood, and
later periods of Jesus' life, containing the story of His activities
in the times not mentioned in the Gospel accounts. The facts
relating to the immaculate conception, the birth, crucifixion,
resurrection, and ascension will astound and inspire you. The
book contains many mystical symbols, fully explained, original
photographs, and a new portrait of Jesus.
There are over three hundred pages with seventeen large
chapters, beautifully printed, bound in purple silk, and stamped
Here is a book that will inspire, instruct, and guide every
student of mysticism and religion. It is one of the most talked'
about books ever written on the subject. Read it and be pre­
pared for the discussion of it that you will hear among men and
women of learning.
Sent by mail, postpaid, for $2.50.
in gold.
[97]
V o l u m e V .
“Unto Thee I Grant . .
Revised by Sri. R am atherjo
V
T
HIS is one of the rarest Oriental mystery books known. It
is translated by special permission of the Grand Lama and
Disdples of the Sacred College in the Grand Temple in Tibet.
Here is a book that was written two thousand years ago,
and was hidden in manuscript form from the eyes of the world
and given only to the initiates of the temples in Tibet to
study privately.
Out of the mystery of the past comes this antique book con­
taining the rarest writings and teachings known to man with
the exception of the Bible. Hundreds of books have been written
about the teachings and practices of the Masters of the Far East
and the Adepts of Tibet, but none of them has ever contained
the secret teachings found in this book. This book is divided
into many parts, each part containing a large number of sections
or divisions and chapters.
The book deals with man's passions, loves, desires, weak­
nesses, sins, strengths, fortitudes, ambitions, and hopes. All are
treated in detail with illuminating simplicity. The book is beau­
tifully printed and bound with stiff cover, and contains also the
strange mystic story of the expedition into Tibet to secure this
marvelous manuscript.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.27.
[98]
V o l u m e V I.
A Thousand Tears of Yesterdays
B y Dr. H . Spen cer Lewis, F . R . C .
V
H
ERE is a book that will tell you more about the real facte of
reincarnation than anything that w u ever written. It is a
story of the soul, and explains in detail bow the soul enters the
body and how it leaves, where it goes, and when it comes back
to earth again, and why.
The story is not just a piece of fiction, but a revelation of the
mystic laws and principles known to the Masters of the Far East
and the Orient for many centuries, and never put into book form
as a story before this book was printed. That is why the book has
been translated into so many foreign languages and endorsed by
the mystics and adepts of India, Persia, Egypt, and Tibet.
Fascinating — Alluring — Instructive
Each who has read the book says that he was unable to leave
it without finishing it at one sitting. The story reveals the mystic
principles taught by the Rosicrudans in regard to reincarnation
as well as the spiritual laws of the soul and the incarnations
of the soul.
It is well printed, neatly bound with stiff cover, and worthy of
a place in anyone's library.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.00.
[99]
V o l u m e V II.
Self Mastery and Fate with the
Cycles of Life
By D r. H. S p en ce r Lewis, F. R. C.
V
THIS book is entirely different from any ever issued in
America dealing with the secret periods in the life of each
man and woman wherein the Cosmic forcea affect our daily affairs.
The book reveals how we may take advantage of certain
periods to bring success, happiness, health, and prosperity into
our lives, and it likewise points out those periods which are not
favorable for many of the things we try to accomplish. It does
not deal with astrology or any system of fortune telling, but
presents a system long used by the Master Mystics in Oriental
lands and which is strictly scientific and demonstrable. One
reading of the book with its charts and tablet will enable the
reader to see the course of his life at a glance. It helps everyone
to eliminate “chance” and “luck," to cast aside “fate," and
replace these with Self Mastery.
Here is a book you will use weekly to guide your affairs
throughout the years. There is no magic in its system, but it
opens a vista of the cycle of the life of each being in a remark'
able manner.
Well printed, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold to
match other volumes of the Rosicrucian Library. Price, postage
prepaid, $2.25.
[ 100]
V o l u m e VIII.
Rosicrucian Manual
By D r . H . Spencer Lewis, F . R . C .
V
HIS practical book contains not only extracts from the
Constitution of the Order of Rosicrucians, but a complete
outline and explanation of all of the customs, habits, and termi­
nology of the Rosicrucians, with diagrams and explanations of
the symbols used in the teachings, an outline of the subjects
taught, a dictionary of the terms, a complete presentation of the
principles of Cosmic Consciousness, and biographical sketches of
important characters connected with the work. There are also
special articles on the Great White Lodge and its existence, how
to attain psychic illumination, the Rosicrucian Code of Life with
thirty laws and regulations, and a number of portraits of prom­
inent mystics including Master K. H., the Illustrious.
The technical matter contained in the text and in the hundred
or more diagrams makes this book a real encyclopedia of Rosi-
crucian explanations, aside from the complete dictionary it con­
tains.
The “Rosicrucian Manual" is of large site, well printed,
beautifully bound in red silk cloth, and stamped in gold. The
fifth edition has been enlarged and improved in many ways.
Price, postage prepaid, $2.35.
C 101]
V o l u m e IX.
Mystics at Prayer
Compiled By Many Cihlar, F. R. C.
Austrian Philosopher and Mystic
V
THE first complete compilation of the famous prayers of the
renowned mystics and adepts of all ages.
The book, “Mystics at Prayer,” explains in simple language
the reason of prayer, how to pray, and the Cosmic laws involved.
You come to learn the real efficacy of prayer and its full beauty
dawns upon you. Whatever your religious beliefs, this book
makes your prayers the application not of words, but of helpful,
divine principles. You will learn the infinite power of prayer.
Prayer is man's rightful heritage. It is the direct means of man's
communion with the infinite force of divinity.
“Mystics at Prayer" is well bound, embossed in gold, printed
on art paper in two colors, with deckled edge and tipped pages,
sent anywhere, postpaid, $1.10.
I 102]
V o l u m e XI.
Mansions of the Soul
The Cosmic Conception
By D r. H. S p en ce r Lewis, F. R. C.
V
REINCARNATION! The world's greatest disputed doctrine.
The belief in reincarnation has had millions of intelligent,
learned, and tolerant followers throughout the ages. Ringing
through the minds and hearts of students, mystics, and thinkers
have always been the words: "Why Are We Here?" Reincar­
nation has been criticized by some as conflicting with sacred
literature and without verification. This book reveals, however,
in an astounding manner the many facts to support reincarnation.
Quotations from eminent authorities, from Biblical and Sacred
works, substantiate reincarnation. This volume PROVES reincar­
nation. It places it high above mere speculation. This book is
without exaggeration the most complete, inspiring, enlightening
book ever written on this subject. It is not a fiction story but a
step by step revelation of profound mystical laws. Look at some
of these fascinating, intriguing subjects:
The Cosmic Conception; The Personality of the Soul; Does
Personality Survive Transition?; Heredity and Inheritance; Karma
and Personal Evolution; Religion and Biblical Viewpoints;
Christian References; Between Incarnations; Souls of Animals
and the "Unborn", Recollections of the Past.
The book contains over three hundred pages, beautifully
printed, neatly bound, stamped in gold; it is a valuable asset to
your library, economically priced. Price, per copy, postage pre­
paid, only $2.35.
V olume XII.
Lemuria — The Lost Continent
of the Pacific
By W ish ar S. C erve
V
BENEATH the rolling, restless seas lie the mysteries of for­
gotten civilizations. Swept by the tides, half buried in the
sands, worn away by territic pressure, are the remnants of a
culture little known to our age of today. Where the mighty
Pacific now rolls in a majestic sweep of thousands of miles, there
was once a vast continent. This land was known as Lemuria, and
its people as Lemurians.
We pride ourselves upon the inventions, conveniences, and
developments of today. We call them modern, but these ancient
and long-forgotten people excelled us. Things we speak of as
future possibilities, they knew as everyday realities. Science has
gradually pieced together the evidences of this lost race, and in
this book you will find the most astounding, enthralling chapters
you have ever read. How these people came to be swept from
the face of the earth, except for survivors who have living
descendants today, is explained. Illustrations and explanations of
their mystic symbols, maps of the continent, and many ancient
truths and laws are contained in this unusual book.
If you are a lover of mystery, of the unknown, the weird—
read this book. Remember, however, this book is not fiction, but
based on facts, the result of extensive research. Does civilization
reach a certain height, and then retrograde? Are the culture and
progress of mankind in cycles, reaching certain peaks, and then
returning to start over again? These questions and many more
are answered in this intriguing volume. Read of the living
descendants of these people, whose expansive nation now lies at
the bottom of the Pacific. In the minds of these descendants
is the knowledge of the principles which in by-gone centuries
made their forbears builders of an astounding civilization.
The book, “Lemuria, the Lost Continent of the Pacific,” is
beautifully bound, well printed and contains many, many illus­
trations. It is economically priced at $2.30, postpaid.
t 104]
V olum e XIII.
The Technique of the Master
The W ay of Cosmic Preparation
By Raym und A ndrea, F. R. C.
V
AGUIDE to inner unfoldment! The newest and simplest
explanation for attaining the state of Cosmic Consciousness.
To those who have felt the throb of a vital power within, and
whose inner vision has at times glimpsed infinite peace and
happiness, this book is offered. It converts the intangible whispers
of self into forceful actions that bring real joys and accomplish'
ments in life. It is a masterful work on psychic unfoldment.
It is well bound in cloth, with deckled and tinted edged paper.
Secure this treasure for yourself. Economically priced, postage
prepaid, at $2.00.
[ion
V o l u m e X I V .
The Symbolic Prophecy of
The Great Pyramid
By D r. H. S p e n c e r Lewis, F. R. C.
V
THE world's greatest mystery and first wonder is the Great
Pyramid. It stands as a monument to the learning and
achievements of the ancients. For centuries its secrets were
closeted in stone—now they stand revealed.
Never before in a book priced within the reach of every reader
have the history, vast wisdom, and prophecies of the Great
Pyramid been given. You will be amaicd at the Pyramid’s scien­
tific construction and at the tremendous knowledge of its mys­
terious builders.
Who built the Great Pyramid? Why were its builders in­
spired to reveal to posterity the events of the future? What is
the path that the Great Pyramid indicates lies before mankind?
Within the pages of this enlightening book there are the answers
to many enthralling questions. It prophesied the World War and
the great economic upheaval. Learn what it presages for the
future. You must not deprive yourself of this book.
The book is well bound with a hard cover, and contains all
necessary charts and illustrations. Price only $2.25 with post­
age paid.
C106]
V o l u m e X V .
The Book °f Jasher
The Sacred Book Withheld
V
BY WHAT RIGHT has man been denied the words of the
prophets? Who dared expurge from the Holy Bible one of
its inspired messages? For centuries man has labored under the
illusion that there have been preserved for him the collected books
of the great teachers and disciples—yet one had been withheld—
“The Book of Jasher."
Within the hallowed pages of the great Bible itself are ref'
erences to this lost book which have puzzled the devout and
students for centuries. As if by Divine decree, the Bible appears
to cry out to mankind that its sanctity had been violated, its truth
veiled, for we find these two passages exclaiming: “Is not this
written in the ‘Book of Jasher’—Joshua x. 13;" "Behold, it is
written in the ‘Book of Jasher’—2 Sam. i. 18.”
Alcuin discovered this great lost book of the Bible written by
Jasher. He translated it into English in 800 A. D. Later it was
suppressed and then rediscovered in 1829, and once again sup­
pressed.
But now we bring to you an actual Photographic Reproduction
of this magnificent work, page for page, line for line, unex-
purgated. This enlightening work, bound in its original style, is
priced at only $2.00 per copy, postage paid.
[ 107 J
V o l u m e X V I .
The Technique of the Disciple
By Raym und A ndrea, F. R. C.
V
••»■рНЕ TECHNIQUE OF THE DISCIPLE” is a book con-
JL taining a modern description of the ancient esoteric path
to spiritual illumination, trod by the masters and avatars of yore.
It has long been said that Christ left, as a great heritage to
members of His secret council, a private method for guidance
in life, which method has been preserved until today in the secret,
occult mystery schools.
Raymund Andrea, the author, reveals the method for attaining
a greater life taught in these mystery schools, which perhaps
parallels the secret instructions of Christ to members of His
council. The book is enlightening, inspiring, and splendidly
written. It is handsomely bound with a stiff board cover and
the material of the cover is woven of silk thread, and stamped
in gold. Postage is paid on shipment to you. Priced at $2.11
per copy.
[108]
H OW TO ORDER BOOKS
If your regular book dealer does not have these books
in stock, and you do not care to wait until he secures
them for you, you may save time by sending your order
direct, with remittance or C. O. D., postage prepaid by us.
ROSICRUCIAN SUPPLY BUREAU
Rosicrucian Park, San Jose, California, U. S. A
