{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__lalita_latoo___transmuted_light.pdf","mytitle":"Transmuted Light","mylang":"de"}
TRANSMITTED
LIGHT
is H
LATOO-THE INSTRUMENT
LAL1TA-THE RECORDER
TRANSMITTED
LIGHT
LATOO-THE INSTRUMENT
LAL1TA-THE RECORDER
Published by the Order of Loving Service
Copyright 1937 in U.S.A. by Maud Lalita Johnson
Copyright 1937 in Canada and Great Britain and all Countries
of the International Copyright Union
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
ASSOCIATED WITH THE ROYAL ORDER OF TIBET, LAGUNA BEACH, CALIF.
DEDICATED
TO THE
BROTHERHOOD
WITH
GRATITUDE
960752
CONTENTS
PAGE
Introduction 3
Messages ....... 9
Independent Messages . . . . 103
A Message thru another . . . 1 07
Healing . . . . . . .110
Letters from Latoo . . . . .115
A letter to one hesitating on the threshold . 1 24
INTRODUCTION
n giving these messages to the public it
is necessary to make certain statements and
explanations. In the first place, I have always
steered clear of psychic phenomena as such,
avoiding spiritualistic seances, hypnotism, etc.
That such things exist I know only too well and
having been born with certain psychic faculties
quite forcibly developed, it was always the desire
of spiritualists to secure me as a medium and in
later years the desire of hypnotists to secure my
services as a subject for public demonstration.
However I was saved from all this by an innate
desire to serve only the highest. I acknowledge
that spiritualists have evolved a very beautiful
philosophy, but in some of their magazines it is
still stated that their main object is to prove the
existence of life after so-called death. To me this
has never needed proof, the life of the future and
the life of the past being in many instances as
clear and sometimes much more clear and real
than events of this present incarnation. So if
3
. Transmitted: Light '
that is their goal, namely, to prove life after so-
called death and if their work ends there, then
I start where they leave off. I accept continued
life as a fact and build from there on.
Also I find that mediumship is too often used
for mere fortune telling and for making personal
contacts. My desire from early childhood was to
transcend the personal and to enter the imper
sonal life, a life given to the search for truth, the
dissemination of truth and last and most im
portant, the living of truth. Necessarily, then, I
wished to contact those who knew, whether in
the flesh or out of the flesh. I never approved of
mediumship as practiced for personal or inferior
purposes. I do approve of the communion of
saints. In other words, one should seek to contact
the highest and in order to do so one must be
worthy and that means faith and hard and con
tinued effort. If you wish to become a truly great
musician, you should live continuously in contact
with great musicians, where you hear music dis
cussed and practiced and where you can contact
its atmosphere. You must be where you can
absorb it. And so in spiritual matters, you must
place yourself in an atmosphere where you will
4
Transmitted Light
absorb spiritual truth as a sponge soaks up water.
The Hindus have an expression: "Soaked in
Spirit-soaked in God." When you get this real
ization you have found bliss.
I repeat, I had always steered clear of
mediumship and spiritualistic seances, and had
some one asked me to go into this present work
I would probably have declined, but when it
just happened unexpectedly and suddenly and
when it revealed itself instantly as being on a
very high plane, I could not refuse to go on and
found that in time both the instrument and
myself gained a more definite ability to com
mune with our teachers in full waking conscious
ness and each without the assistance of the oth
er. In fact we were told early in the work that
it was Their hope that we would soon develop
the power of direct and conscious communion.
It was this hope and assurance that led me to
go on.
It might be interesting to the reader to
know how this all started. Some one who knew
I was interested in India and the philosophy of
that country told me of a young man who was
a student along similar lines. I talked with him
5
Transmitted Light
and asked him to call one evening to talk about
Oriental philosophy and spiritual teachings in
general. I also heard that he was or had been
a spiritualistic medium. As this phase of it did
not interest me I did not mention it. We had
a very harmonious talk and I suggested that he
come again, which he seemed glad to do. When
he next came, I immediately handed him a book
called "Sri Krishna" by Baba Premanand Bha-
rati. He took the book and began stroking it
and instantly went into a trance and began giv
ing a chant in a foreign language, which is de
scribed in the opening chapter. Naturally I
was startled and sat transfixed. But when the
first English word was spoken I reached for a
pencil and seizing such scraps of paper as were
convenient I began writing as he gave the mes
sage. I would have imagined myself as being
afraid under such circumstances but was held
spellbound by the beauty of the message given
and by the high vibrations which filled the room.
There was no time to think. When I reread the
message and copied it the next day I was thrill
ed with it and could not refuse to go on, tho
not feeling quite sure about it. However the
6
Transmitted Light
ever rising power and ever increasing light led
me on and I feel I must now make these mes
sages public even as They asked me to do.
On several occasions I invited the young
man to call hoping we could discuss many mat
ters of interest, but that was impossible for he
would no sooner enter the room than he would
go into a trance. And so this work was contin
ued and the material collected will now be print
ed in a book in the hope that it will find a warm
response in many hearts. I wish I could convey
the great warmth and tenderness radiated by
Those who serve so willingly. At the end of the
first message the instrument reverently kissed
the Krishna book he was holding and then
slowly awakened.
We soon learned to recognize the various
speakers by the style of address, tone of message,
quality of voice, and the vibrations. In some
instances They gave Their names and we were
told that where the name was definitely given
we could print the same. Wherever the word
"chant" occurs it simply indicates that a chant,
usually a long one, was given, often in an East
Indian language, at other times possibly in Latin,
7
Transmitted Light
French, Egyptian, Chinese, Tibetan. Where the
word A-U-M appears it indicates that this was
intoned and often repeated several times. With
the exception of a few which are indicated, these
messages were received in Laguna Beach, Cali
fornia, U. S. A.
It is very apparent to the Recorder as well
as to the several others who have helped in pre
paring this little volume for the public, that it is
full of errors in grammar and rhetoric and has
many other faults if judged from the external, but
it must be remembered by the reader that these
are inspirational, spontaneous, spoken messages
taken down rapidly in long hand and then copied.
The purpose has been to keep them as near the
original as possible, so that they would more
fully express the individuality of the different
Speakers and more definitely establish Their in
dividual vibrations. To attempt to make them
conform at all times to English grammar and
English style of expression, would rob them of
their spontaneity and simplicity. We have wanted
most of all, to transmit their Light, their Love,
their Sincerity.
Lalita.
8
MESSAGES
Number 1 November, 1932.
Greetings Child of Light. Peace. Learn
to separate the real from the unreal. Peace
dwelleth there forever, peace dwelleth .... Know
the Divine. Swing out into that which is perfect,
the most perfect, the most beautiful, the most
gorgeous Being that can be conceived. Swing
out into the ocean of Love. All is well —there is
nothing that is not well. Thou art a part of the
whole and art not complete without the whole.
Nothing to fear—all good, all almighty, divine.
Become drowned in the ocean of Divinity. Lose
thyself therein, that thou mayest find thyself
therein. This is the message. Thy teacher is
always near. Thy teacher is not far away. Seek
those with whom you ought to be.
Goodevening madame. Goodevening mad-
ame. Thanks. I am Paul Renee. Born in France.
9
Transmitted Light
Love music. Am a composer. You can contact
me if you wish. I began an opera shortly before
passing over as you call it. Characters, scenes,
outline, all on paper. Beautiful, simple, and
praising type which you like. There are more
important things to do this evening so I say,
Au Revoir. (This message from the French
gentleman was delivered in a soft, refined tone
and ended much like a radio address with the
words, "This is Paul Renee speaking.")
(Then without warning a full, deep bari
tone took charge. The voice was so strong and
so positive that it startled me.) This is Frank
Harwood. Have used this young man before but
he fights it. (I looked at the instrument
and saw from the expression of his face that he
was fighting it and I immediately said mental
ly, "If he does not want it you must not take
possession." The voice went on.) You prob
ably do not like it either. My being here may
make you lose faith in him, make you lose faith
in his ability to go ahead. I know I am not as
advanced as the souls he wishes to contact, but
I helped to prepare his body so he can stand
higher vibrations, so Those higher up can use
10
Transmitted Light
him, so when you know that, you may have great
er faith in him. (Then I saw the instrument
was again struggling and he kept saying, "No
I don't want to, no I don't want to." I was per
sonally distressed, not knowing just what was
the right thing to do but was quickly and im
mensely relieved when he began reciting the
Lord's prayer. I saw then that he had his own
protection within him. As soon as the prayer
was finished he again began the intonations
that were like Aum and again gave a long chant.
I ought to have said in the beginning that this
entire message was preceded by a long chant
in some foreign language. Sometimes I thot
it was Latin, then as I recognized so few words
I decided it might be some East Indian lan
guage, perhaps Sanscrit and also noted at times
a prolonged tone as if trying to intone the Aum.
The first English words spoken were, "Greet
ings, child of Light." As he began this second
chant I at first thot I recognized some Spanish
words but later decided it was an East Indian
chant for soon the words Brahma and Krishna
were very plainly and distinctly spoken. The
instrument had been all the time holding in
11
Transmitted Light
his hands the book "Krishna" by the Baba Bha-
rati—see introduction. —During this chant the
only English word spoken was the word "Salu
tations." At the end of the chant again the
word "Salutations" and then the instrument
continued in English.)
My kind friend, I pray that heaven may
bless you, that you may find the peace, satis
faction, and stimulant so you may be able to
carry on the great work which you have started.
Spread out. Let your knowledge, your power
be felt around you. It is not good to live to your
self, you are only a part and you must have the
whole. Give all you have, every bit of spiritual
knowledge you have. Ask forgiveness for failure
to reflect His Light. Keep yourself clean, so
that you can reflect the Light. Feed those that
are hungry. Give your Light. This is my op
portunity to contact hungry souls. May Love
overcome all things that are wrong in your
material world. Live, live, live in Love! God
bless all! Give to all the world my message.
Thank you, my child.
12
Transmitted Light
Number ? December 9, 1932.
(The instrument first began speaking in
his own voice. "I see trees, jungle, small house,
man calling the people his children, teaching
them love and kindness." Then the baritone
voice of the former message.)
Goodevening. This is Frank. I only come
to open the door. You remember I spoke to you
once before thru this young man. I ask kindness
and good wishes which I also give to you. Good
night.
A-U-M. Chant. Greetings! Oh, glorious
is this day that heaven and earth meet, that
East and West can converse. We want to bring
light into darkness and lead you up the stair
way of Eternal Progression. My friend, you
cannot realize how much I appreciate this in
strument and yourself, to give a few words of
encouragement and enlightenment. We want
to use this instrument. We have contacted first
one and then another thru him, but without
success. It is not material food and clothing
that the people need, but the eternal food of
light and love and understanding. So we want
to place this one who is so sensitive, where we
13
Transmitted Light
can give. So we have joy in this contact and
want to lead you into far places of delight. Your
own teacher is so near you. He can answer di
rectly any need. Blessings on all you do and on
this one thru whom I come. Chant.
Goodevening, Lalita. Is it not mysterious
the way things are brought about —beyond com
prehension —so very much has transpired around
you —you feel that you have been wound around
and around—encircled, bound, but it is not so.
You have greater freedom —greater things are
coming from you —release your fear—drop it.
Have confidence in the love of the Loving One.
These things that trouble are fear. When all is
filled by love there can be no fear. Remember
that fear is the only thing in the way. All else
is pleasing. Rise up and shine. Fear is a mani
festation of Maya. Behold the Loving One with
your eyes, both within and without —a blaze
of light will envelop you. Truth, truth, truth.
(This message evidently came from the Baba
Bharati since no one else at the time called me
Lalita, but I felt the voice did not sound like
his, though it became more like his own when
14
Transmitted Light
about half thru with the message. This fact
was explained in a future message.)
Goodevening. Just a short message for
the instrument. We want him to give us one
half hour each morning as soon as risen, dress
ed and ablutions performed— before eating. Be
very careful to prevent any interference. Must
close himself in carefully. Have pencil and paper
handy. Must prepare himself by spontaneous
prayer and follow every inspiration without fail
regardless of his own understanding of the in
spiration. This is preparatory to greater things
to come. He must have no fear concerning ma
terial things. Attention to spiritual matters first
is the best policy. I will answer a question asked
him today about spiritual, no spirit demonstra
tion. It is well to discuss the matter, always
being careful to stress spiritual matters in pref
erence to explaining the astral and material
manifestations. There is material in the person
asking the question, material for a worth while
pupil. Thank you for writing so carefully. Salen-
tus gives this message. Goodnight.
Goodevening Mrs. ... I am H. B. M., pass
ed over at - - - was a Methodist Episcopal
15
Transmitted Light
minister. I have three daughters living (here
he gave the name and address of one.) I passed
over in 1902. I give these details only as a privi
lege. But the essential thing is that every min
ister of the gospel of today should be compelled
to study thoroughly the Oriental philosophies be
fore ever trying to interpret the Bible. This is a
radical statement but I have learned over here and
it does me good to acknowledge my mistake. I
know you understand. All must know truth be
fore teaching. God bless you. (There were tears
in this man's voice as he spoke and when he
said it did him good to acknowledge his mistake
and that he knew I would understand I sensed
that a great load of sorrow and remorse had slip
ped from his soul. I felt the release. Evidently
he had long wanted to say this and had waited
until he could tell it to someone who could un
derstand both sides of the question. I wish here
to acknowledge the joy I feel in rewriting these
messages. It is just like having the communion
over again and conversing with friends.)
Chant. Blessings I sing. May they descend
on all mankind. May eyes see , may the ears
hear the divine music, may feet march steadily
16
Transmitted Light
forward and not in circles, with confusion. Our
hearts you call it "souls," are strained as
we reach down to encircle those that are not
strong. The greatest love is to love mankind—
to reach down and assist. Many strive to reach
down and assist. Many strive to reach down,
but it is of no avail if others are not ready, if
they will not reach up. But when we find those
like you who are willing to help others we feel
it is worth while. We are all a part and each
part must support other parts. As your songs
have done and will do and your words and life
and presence— we hope others will do and so we
work. (Here I felt the force so strong that it
became overpowering. I felt it an effort to go on.
The strain was immediately recognized and an
swered.) Forgive if we strive too hard, or push
too strong —we want only to help and give
strength. Love is the keynote to all. Love—peace
—peace. Chakarara speaks. (Here I realized I
could not stand any more and became very weak
physically and mentally weary). Bless you and
our instrument. Let the outer eye work with the
inner eye so that your seeing will become unified.
(Then I said, "Oh, I just cannot do more." In
17
Transmitted Light
stantly the force was withdrawn and the message
ended with the one word.) Amen.
Number 3 December 14, 1932.
Goodevening, this is Frank. I come to
open the door, to aid you and the instrument,
and all—also myself, for I want to learn. Good
night, God bless you.
A—U—M. Chant. Salutations—adoration.
I center my attention with you for this moment,
desiring, my beloved children, to filter ideas
and conceptions of truth from all times. Real
ize that all knowledge is in the storehouse. The
doors are able to give forth the contents if one has
the key. This is not beyond mortal man. Awaken
him to the use of this key. Awaken the eyes and
mind to the scope of spirituality. So are you
blessed, O child of Light. Be immersed in uni
versal understanding and serve the Truth. I am
almost overcome when I try to express in words
acceptable to human ears. In contact with teach
ers and high striving souls we find a terrible
limit placed upon them. We feel as if we were in
prison. But it is not impossible. It is time for
the words to be sung on earth. This is the holi
18
Transmitted Light
day season commemorating the greatest Master
known to the western world. We return to sing.
O, children, you are brothers. Remember life
must be lived. There is no exit and no rear door.
You must go forward and upward. The people
now are so unsettled, so uncertain. They know
not which way to turn. Now is the time for the
stepping up of many people. Praise the soul
that leads into the light and out of darkness.
I say again I am well pleased that the voice of
experience can be heard on earth. Bless you
by all the gods and in the name of Truth itself.
Goodnight, goodnight.
(Then there was a soft whistling sound
much like the whistle sometimes heard through
the windshield of an auto and whenever this
sound was heard I received the impression of
a body moving thru space at great speed and
seemed to glimpse a path of light and move
ment thru this path starting from a great dis
tance away. In future messages this will be ex
pressed by the one word "Whistle." Then there
was a Chant in a foreign language. The only
words recognized were, "ici, notre, non.")
Goodevening, Mrs. - - - . This is Hart. I
19
Transmitted Light
visited the temple where my mother prayed. I
love poems and music. (This party was person
ally acquainted with the instrument.) I want
to help and love all. I mean to try to see only
the things that love would have me see. To say
the things that love would have me say. Let
him know that there is love in my being always,
always. (The voice was exceedingly tender and
sweet.) Have you ever been in the Salt
Lake Temple? (I answered, "no." Then
he laughed a low pleasant laugh.) Of
course not, none but members are allowed to
enter. As I heard my mother's words ascend
from that altar today, it was a cradle of fire,
everlasting fire, eternal fire. May the angels
sing for her the words she wants to hear. I wish
she could hear my voice. God bless all people.
Goodbye.
(Then the instrument began talking dis
connectedly). There are lots of lights in the
room. One is yellow and blue, close to you,
above you, protecting you, extending to you,
giving something to you. A woman has passed
over—sometimes on a high plane—not young. She
wants to connect with you again. Do you know
20
Transmitted Light
what illumination is? (I mentally thot, "No,—
perhaps wisdom".) It means the breaking of
bonds. It means the ascension of the soul to its
proper place. The individual then does good for
the sake of doing good. He loves people because
he cannot help it. It is part of himself. Illu
mination is the goal. I see other things. A
horizon, a fan-shaped light of various colors.
All the colors mingle at the base, but above
they separate into various colors. Now I see
a tunnel. It is rough underfoot. It is dark and
gloomy. But ahead a bright light is enticing me
on. Strange things are happening. They have
a bearing on the future. Calamity is descending
on some one and we shall feel the effects of it.
Now I am floating over a valley, hills, mountains
and snow. Some one is cold. Oh, oh, can I help?
God send angels to meet this one. I am coming
home.
Number 4 December 21, 1932.
A-U-M. Chant. Goodevening. This is
Frank. Come to open the door. Hope it will be
instructive. To the new ones. My name is Har-?
21
Transmitted Light
wood. Passed out in C . Was a spiritualist.
Sorry I did not know before that one could reach
higher, to higher planes. Goodnight.
(Is is necessary to explain here that a cer
tain lady had asked the privilege of being pres
ent at one of our evening experiences and hav
ing been told she was a sincere student we gave
the permission, but unwisely told her she could
bring her husband. The conditions that mani
fested brought suffering to the instrument and
myself and we never again allowed any one to
be present at these times of communion which
were always on a high and impersonal plane
when we were alone. The gentleman present on
this occasion seemed rather too much interested
in phenomena and in keeping things on the per
sonal plane. The instrument was exceedingly
tired physically this evening and we told him to
lie down on a couch. Usually he sat in a chair. He
had asked me to bring with me the book "Krish
na," as the experience took place at his home on
this occasion. He seemed to forsee that he would
need protection. I took my place across the room
at a table. The instrument seemed in great agony
at first and kept saying "Get out—get out. Only
22
Transmitted Light
light can come thru this door." It would seem
that entities on a lower plane were trying to get
in, something that had never happened before in
my presence. He struggled in vain for some time
and finally cried out, "Agrasti, take them away."
He had thus called on one who often came to us,
a very gentle, sweet soul and one who seemed
especially close to the instrument. By this time
I had crossed the room and stood beside the
couch holding in my hands the book "Krishna."
I did not know just what to do, but was seem
ingly impressed to lay the book on the instru
ment's folded hands. He immediately became
calm and smiled and slipping his hands from
underneath the book he took hold of it. He
then seemed completely at ease and I was cer
tainly greatly relieved.)
Goodevening. It has been hard for the in
strument to push thru. As the two strangers are
present there are those on this side who want
to mislead. They want to be near those they
love. They are just as they were before they
passed over and still look toward the earth.
This explains the existence of fiends on earth.
You cannot see with your eyes. You are con
23
Transmitted Light
stantly surrounded by astral conditions—they
are either progressive or at a standstill— if the
latter, some other force may take hold. Vast
energy is consumed to make these contacts. You
have physical body, astral body, and spiritual
body, and a soul within. Your astral body is
what you have made it. Desires create the as
tral body whether the acts are performed or
not. You may have to return to the physical
body before being able to go up. If you have
learned to walk upward it is not necessary to come
again. I am seeking to awaken your minds. It
is not always possible to contact and use an
instrument, but it is always possible for earth-
bound souls to make contact. You are seeking
proof. Because it is so easy for the earth-
bound soul to make contact, the ordinary me-
diumistic seance is hardly proof of anything. It
is calm around the instrument now and I give
way to those higher. This is Salentus. You
will hear from me later. Goodnight. Blessings
of Truth on all of you.
Greetings. Mrs.—, I wish to thank you for
what you did. You have started great things.
Stay by and watch it develop. Direct by your
24
Transmitted Light
intuitions the footsteps of our instrument until
he cannot be misled. We are realizing your con
tacts and your power. You are soon going away
and your contacts will have to be by letter. We
ask you to carefully mold for him what we bring
to your attention. To the newcomers. I have
contacted you several times before. I have been
drawn into your hopes and aspirations and some
times into your downcast conditions. May this
open your eyes so you can see, may it open
your ears to the music of life, may it open
your minds to the unlimited storehouse of wis
dom. Life is not a cruel experience, but a beau
tiful picture. You are both artists of different
kinds and you will see new beauties, you will see
life in what seems dead, you will see light in
darkness. Learn to live for living's sake and not
for personal satisfaction. I hope you will do
what our instrument did and say: "Here am I,
what will you have me do." Look at yourselves.
Try to know yourselves. I do not teach religion
or philosophy, only aspiration for truth. Long
ago, I sat under a tree, a large tree at the
temple of Dakshineswar. Here my Master,
Sri Rama Krishna, appeared to me and asked
25
Transmitted Light
me to listen to him instead of going to England
with my father. My heart wanted him rather
than to learn at the colleges and universities of
England, and he accepted me into his circle. His
body became rigid. First all was dark, then very
bright and I heard him conversing with some
one. Later I came to America and was discour
aged because they did not understand, but he
appeared and told me to go on even if they
did not understand. I am still spreading this
gospel and will lead you as he led me—to Krish
na. Goodnight. (Those who are students along
these lines may be able to guess the identity of
this beloved messenger.)
(Then there was a discourse in Spanish in
a very sweet and musical voice. Then a heavier
voice with a rather German accent.) Well, well,
well. I am Alex S from Hungary. I have
had lots of fun thru this instrument in the past.
Hope you have a good time this Christmas. Many
people give things and do not know why. Every
church in Hungary gives this prayer at Christ
mas. (Then he gave a prayer in Hungarian
probably. There were certain words repeated
often. Sounded like "Nemah naw, nemah naw.")
26
Transmitted Light
I am very sorry that conditions are so strong
that the right forces cannot contact. The in
strument has made every attempt. I will ex
plain. For example. Take the flywheel of a
motor. Start the engine. The flywheel increases
speed. Vibrations must be raised to a certain
level for certain communications. If you put a
belt on the wheel you reduce the speed. So each
person in the room has an aura which draws
certain entities and these auras act as a belt.
But the instrument did not desire to contact
personalities, but higher forces for instruction.
His . Agrasti, Chakarara and others could
not enter. Do not be tense, but free and carry
on a conversation with each other and the forces
manifesting, with respect to the teacher, and
ask questions. Mrs. will confirm what I
say - - - - This is Paul Vernard. I have worked
with Frank in physical demonstrations and
have come now to quiet and help the instrument
so it will not be so hard for him when he comes
back. Thank you and God bless you and Christ
mas joy and light and understanding.
(Here the instrument tried to come back but
only partially succeeded, seeming to be held back
27
Transmitted Light
by personalities who wanted to converse. He kept
saying: "I cannot let you come in. Go away.
Go away. Go learn how to come. You can't come
that way. Go up. It is all dark down here, go up
toward the light. We can't help you. Go up for
instruction." Then as they seemed to insist he
said: "I will let you come in, just one of you and
you will see how impossible it is." Some one
tried to come in but just weakly whispered, "I
can't I can't." And when asked who he was he
said : "I don't know." Then the instrument said
again : "I told you you could not make it. Now
go up and learn how to come. Then I will let
you in.")
Number 5 Christmas Eve. December 24, 1932.
A-U-M. Nee-o-o-om, nee-o-o-om. Whistle.
Greetings, greetings, my friends on this evening
on which you celebrate the coming of the Master,
celebrating with the knowledge of the true mean
ing of the descending of the Master Soul. Such
event may well cause all earth and heaven to ring
forth in melody, eternal, everlasting, so radiant
with fire as to bring fear to many, but hope and
28
Transmitted Light
power to many more. We wish that ears might
hear the melody of the universe which is the life
and strength and power and knowledge and love
of all things, that is called our Father, Creator.
How wonderful is the true significance that is
hidden beneath this cloak of giving and accept
ing material gifts. These very gifts are the source
of destruction unless surrounded by love and
goodwill of the giver. If only man knew more of
the power of the thot with which he surrounds
these gifts, he would know more of the cause of
conditions which now exist. Investigation will
prove to anyone that every Son of God, every
Master, and every Teacher has taught love, love,
love. They have taught more than just love. They
have taught loving service—that is the doorway
leading out of dissatisfaction and unrest and that
is the door opening before the eyes of the western
world. Blest indeed are ye who are able to un
cover the foundation beneath the debris of the
wrecked structure called the Christian church.
Blessed are ye who are able to take even one stone
from the foundation and begin to erect on that
a new church, a church of Loving Service. Blessed
are ye who from this church which you erect can
29
Transmitted Light
radiate the powerful beams of Truth which shall
lead inward and not push outward. Behold, O ye
children of Light, the very facts of Life itself dis
played moment by moment, hour by hour, day
by day, and on without end. A tree cometh forth
from a tiny seed. It grows, becomes an immense
portion of individualized life force, but its service
is not ended until it has gone inward and brought
forth another tiny seed which contains all the ele
ments of that mighty tree concentrated in a
minute portion of the tree itself. In every divi
sion of life this same Mind will be seen. Power
and strength go inward. Life goes inward. So
let this church of Loving Service cause the neo
phytes and its attendants to turn inward and find
that which they have been seeking all their lives
outside. Oh would that each line of thot in reli
gion might realize that every other religion is
striving to accomplish the same end, and climb
the hillside hand in hand rather than to build
barriers before each other. (When this statement
was made the thot passed thru my mind that that
was something we have heard many times. I did
not think this critically, but just realized it to
be true. And immediately as if in defense of
30
Transmitted Light
the statement came the following words.) I only-
repeat that which has often been repeated but
truth becomes more powerful for having been
many times used. Were He, whom you call
Christ, on your earth tonight, the breath of His
teaching and understanding would, no doubt,
encompass all other teachings and faiths, for one
of the last instructions which He gave His chosen
preachers —remember I said preachers, not teach
ers—was to go forth and preach the gospel to all
the world which to my way of understanding is
a direct statement of the fact that all manner of
mankind is within the circle of His teachings ;
and His teaching asks no more of any man than
that he give loving service. Hence He only gave
to man in a simple statement acceptable to mor
tal mind a universal law eternal in its power.
I could spend hours and days of your time en
larging on facts which are apparent concerning
this holiday time, this birthday of Christ in the
flesh, but I will close for this time with the prayer,
"May angels again sing, Peace on earth, good
will to man." Goodnight.
Chant. Nee-o-o-om. Nee-o-o-om. Whistle.
Goodevening. Out of the Far East I appear once
31
Transmitted Light
more. I appear hoping from the depths of my
heart that I may be able to answer some ques
tions in your mind so plain and so clear and so
permanent that it shall lift you high, high, high
so you can touch what you desire. Know, my
child, that peace within is the greatest treasure to
be possessed in mortal body. Know that the
cloak of burning Love is the most choice garment
to be worn by the mortal body. Know that the
incense of loving words is the sweetest perfume
known to mortal body. Oh, know that there is
nothing so important to mind, body, or soul, as
the realization of relationship with the universe.
How much farther can I take you? Now, my
child, let me bring to your attention the facts
that cannot be changed. What thou desirest is
thine. What thou wilt shalt be for thee. Live, O
my child, by that Star of the East even as that
beloved Book tells of the three wise men led into
the presence of Truth by the Star of the East—
the Inner Voice. Know then, that the pathway is
ever before thee and strength is ever within thee,
so follow me.
(As the words "I want to lift you high, high"
were spoken I felt myself thrill with life and
32
Transmitted Light
power so strong that it made me feel a little draw
ing back as if afraid I would not have sufficient
wisdom to know how to control and use so much
power and energy. Then came the words : "The
pathway is ever before thee." With this came a
thot of how could I keep up, always going on and
on. Then came the reassuring words: "And —
strength is ever within thee, so follow me." The
instrument must have shared in my feelings for
he spoke seemingly for himself and for me the
following: "Holy Mary, Mother, intercede for
us." Then followed a long chant, probably latin) .
Goodevening, this is Frank. It is not nec
essary to write what I say for I do not want to
detract from the high vibrations. (So I did not
write at the time thinking that perhaps there
would still be other messages, but when no other
message came and the instrument returned I
wrote down what I could remember of Frank's
talk. At the beginning of the messages this even
ing I had thot that we would not need Frank to
open the door as he usually did for I saw a broad
path of light leading upward and the door was
wide open. We had free access. Evidently he
also had seen this for he did not come to open
33
Transmitted Light
the door and in his message at the end of the
evening said : "I can see you are in constant com
munication by the rays of light." When Frank
first started working with us the instrument thot
he could not help us as he had worked with him in
ordinary spiritualistic seances, but I immediately
felt Frank's sincerity and desire to grow and told
the instrument of it. And was glad when Frank
stated, "I thank you for your understanding. It
has helped me to take a step into the next grade.
The instrument felt tempted to say that he felt
too tired to work but he now is rested and is glad
he did and others are glad too. The conditions
are very pleasing to all.")
Number 6 January 2, 1933
Whistle. The instrument held in his hands
the book of Krishna and bowed over it twice be
fore beginning. A-U-M. Ne-o-o-om. Ne-o-o-om.
Chant. Nee-haw, nee-haw. Blessings I bring to
the beloved. Thine eyes need no longer be cloud
ed, thine ears need no longer be uncertain, for
the entirety of all expression is acceptable unto
the eyes and ears of the Lord and the Lord dwell
34
Transmitted Light
eth within thee. But let not the temple become
unkempt but keep it radiant and fragrant with
flowers and incense and offerings. The Lord dwell-
eth therein. The sweet Lord, the beautiful Lord,
the shining Lord dwelleth therein. Knowest thou
Him? This alone is the purpose of living, to
know Him who thou art. O, sing unto thy Lord,
sing praises, sing songs of joy, sing songs of labor,
sing unto thy Lord. He leaneth from the windows
of heaven listening for thy song, so sing, O child,
sing unto thy Lord. (A song came then in
French). Sing unto the Lord from morn till
night, no greater service than singing songs of
joy, praise and labor unto the Lord. Adieu.
Adieu.
Whistle. A-U-M. Foreign words. My chil
dren, you have surrendered yourselves with so
much power. It is hard to select what words
should come thru. You have discussed many
things and all have brought in influences of high
type. The discussing of Van der Naillen and the
friend, Archie Inger, has brought the Magnificent
One, Celestor, who produced such wonderful
writings which neither of you know. I want you
to know him. His influence, his power, his knowl
45
Transmitted Light
edge are magnificent, but I realize you must not
be distracted and so think it best to come later
and perhaps in other manner than can now be
used. Just let you know we are concerned with
those things with which you surround yourselves
and we are proud. No seed ever planted in good
soil failed to grow and we look forward to what
these seeds shall produce. Goodnight, God bless
you, my children. Krishna surround you with
Love.
Number 7 January 4, 1933.
Humming. Ne-oom-o-om. Sweet—loving
ones in thot. Realizing if it were possible for the
knowledge granted those who have travelled on
thru various planes of expression, to be relayed to
children yet walking the earth, that perception
would burst the fleshly cloaks and cause an ascen
sion into higher realms but it is not so planned.
Knowledge is granted to the seeker who is ready.
That which he is able to assimilate he finds await
ing him, but that which is beyond his stage of
enlightenment he travels upon as he does upon
the soil beneath his feet. Behold, you who have
36
Transmitted Light
ears and eyes with which to understand, the
truths of Life are everywhere. Lift the covers of
a book and you will find them. Rest beneath a
tree and you'll find them. Contemplate the heav
ens and you find them. But even nearer are the
truths of Life. Examine thyself and you will find
them. Every word which you utter may be the
Lord's name if it is spoken in reverence. Every
move of thy hand is a service unto the Lord if it
is done in reverence. And Live, live, live! Use
thy hands and all the other abilities with which
the Lord has created thee. Live to the fullest of
thy power and ability and understanding. Thus
do you serve the Lord. Fear not an act or a thot
of thine shall be against the Lord if it be not
against thy own being. The Lord is forever radiat
ing activity, hence if thou art inclined to move in
a new direction, fear not what the blind man
telleth thee, for the Lord is perfect, so again I
say, Live, live, live! Celestor. Goodnight.
Whistle. A-U-M. Ne-o-o-om. Greetings,
greetings. I am very glad to come in again this
evening, but I find that he who has preceded me
has covered such a breadth that I can do little
but carry on some line of thot he has suggested
37
Transmitted Light
and realizing the greatness of your day it would
be better to discuss between yourselves what you
have seen and we will be nearby to aid and per
haps come in here and there for explanation.
I certainly feel that new planes have been reached
by both of you, but do not open doors too soon
before our instrument for no door can be opened
that he will not pass thru. Encourage the spread
ing out which will produce greater freedom of
mind and body, for then the soul shall shine
thru with greater power and beauty. With this
I say, goodnight. God bless all creatures with
strength to meet the realization.
(Then some foreign words were spoken and
then the instrument evidently began speaking
for himself) . I thank you —you have been so good
to me. All you have brought to pass —and I am
trying to do it as the Lord wants. Help me to do
that and I'll give thanks and praise forever and
ever.
(The reference to the greatness of our day
refers to the fact that the instrument and my
self had spent the afternoon viewing some sym
bolic pictures and had listened almost two hours
to the discourse of an inspirational artist who had
38
Transmitted Light
given us so freely of his time and we had all risen
to such great heights that the power was still with
us when we started our evening's session. It had
been a marvelous day and it became a marvelous
evening. We did indeed discuss the afternoon's
events and, as the speaker had promised, They
stayed nearby and entered the discussion with us.
If either one of us mentioned a picture or experi
ence the other found himself following up the thot
by transmitting explanations from Those who
were helping us. It was a beautiful experience and
seemed just a happy conversation about things
beautiful and glorious. One feels that one would
like always to be in such good company and prob
ably one might always be so. Why not? With
the highlands ahead of us why wallow in the
marshes? With glory and beauty and joy and
radiance within reach why waste time on the
silly, foolish and degrading things of mere per
sonality? With heaven all around us why persist
in trying to perpetuate our Hell? Nothing but
heaven remains everywhere when we once dedi
cate ourselves to the Life.)
39
Transmitted Light
Number 8 January 11, 1933
(The instrument gave the following in
song.) O we praise Thee, power Divine, Ever
lasting glory Thine. 0 Life of all from star to
sod, praise we Father, Mother, God.
Most beloved friend, with these few words
of praise is expressed the true attitude of children
of God who are conscious of their true relation
ship. The power of that attitude is beyond com
prehension of mortal mind. The scientist goes
deep into so-called mysteries and the laws
which he discovers are but half so powerful as this
law expressed in those words of praise. It was my
intention on entering this evening to first ex
plain to you the operation of this very law, in
order that you might explain to our instrument
and assist him in correlation of the mortal and
the spiritual understanding. His recent physical
disturbance is only the result of inharmony. His
conscious spiritual perception had advanced to
that stage wherein a statement becomes a law
or an action, hence having said, "I shall eat no
more meat" the law was immediately put into
action. Then upon eating meat there could be
40
Transmitted Light
nothing but inharmony or upheaval. He must
learn to be careful of the laws which he sets up
for himself for these are the laws of the Lord and
the Lord demands obedience unto His Word.
Give this to him as you see fit. Realizing that
contacts will soon be harder to make, it was im
portant to give this. A state of meditation and
quietness would eliminate such things but pres
ent conditions demand extreme care for the Glory
of the Lord.
A-U-M. Whistle. Greetings, greetings,
greetings. Are there not some questions you
want to ask? (I was mentally wondering what
I should do about telling the instrument about
the question of eating meat, as to when and how
to tell him.) He must learn not to make laws
and contradict himself. You will know what to
do. Do you realize that every thot issued is just
like a written word ? It is written around you in
ether. It cannot be erased but can be drawn back
to you and must eventually return to you. Upon
transcending the mortal plane and vibrating con
sciously to astral and spiritual planes one's thots
become the framework of a building which one
must eventually inhabit and if you erect a por
41
Transmitted Light
tion of that building with a certain definite state
ment and next day tear it down with a contradic
tion, you will be crushed as it falls and that
crushing is the inharmonious condition called
illness. Will men ever learn that they are more
than limbs and trunk and head? They are as big
as the universe with which they are mystified.
Their power is even as great as the sun which
warms you. O, God, give them Light.
Some time ago you were given an example
of a tree. Let me use again the same example.
The countless number of branches and twigs
coming from the trunk is but a poor explanation
of the sons of God coming forth from their Father-
Mother, the trunk, but those twigs must remain
attached to the trunk, or their source of food of
life-sap is cut off and they are dead upon the
ground. Then the purpose of loving service is to
call these twigs back to the tree trunk so they
may come to life and bear fruit. Let the loving
voice ring in the dark corners, in the lighted
halls, in the unkempt places, in the bright and
shining places. There are dead branches every
where. So very much could be said, I must keep
it down in small understandableness, else I
42
Transmitted Light
frighten, but 0, my children, Lalita, Latoo—
(these two names were spoken together so I
wondered if the Speaker were giving me another
name for I had been so long called just Lalita.
My mental question was heard and answered)
Latoo is the instrument's name. Let the voice
ring forever. Krishna adoreth His devotees and
covereth them with shining clothes of blue even
as He is blue.
Goodevening, this is Frank. Thank you
for all you have done. I try to protect and aid
him in his battles which I can see. I will come
often in your new associations for I know it
will be good for me and perhaps I can serve.
Number 9 Friday, January 13, 1933.
Goodevening, Agrasti. (The instrument
was evidently talking to Those around him.) So
many of you here, I think. I hope you are pleased
with the things I have done—that my day's work
is acceptable before the altar. I am ready to de
liver messages. Thank you for all you have done
—to help me to understand. Glory unto God.
Glory unto you friends. Chakarara, E ,
43
Transmitted Light
Baba—I bow myself before thee —accept in the
name of Krishna. Celestor —such a circle of
bright. Ones I can hardly look—tell me some
thing—she is going away—tell me what to do
now, how are things to be accomplished. Yes,
I am coming, I am coming.
A-U-M. Chant. Salutations unto the chil
dren of earth. Be it known that one more step
has been overcome, that new veils are laid aside
before the eyes of ye who are accepted this night
into the Circle. Mysteries are no longer mysteries
—darkness no longer seems dark—behold the
door stands open —enter in ye who desire to
know—this is the time of thy initiation —this is
the time of joy above and below for the roll is
made longer and two names are added
and Know thy brethren, thy strength,
thy power, thy love, thy knowledge, the Lord.
This then, is the purpose. Go forth and obey.
(Then the instrument spoke) Oh, look at
the fire, Lalita, do you see the fire? (I answered,
"I do not see the fire. I do see light—a globe of
light.") Yes, that is it. Light. Oh, wait, wait—
this is the most important thing there ever has
been. A new person is coming in, some one en
44
Transmitted Light
tirely new. (He then described this new One,
but, I feel I cannot give all this message. It is
too sacred.) Everybody is bowing —we bow. (I
felt that I was bowing tho my body did not move.)
Initiation—Peace—Strength. —We ask no vow
except to love the Lord. (To this the instrument
responded heartily, "I do, I do." And I repeated,
"I do also." Then there was a chant in a lan
guage that sounded different from others we had
had. I thot—"Egyptian," but may have been
mistaken. Then instead of the instrument's re
laxing as he usually did, he began inhaling more
and more until his chest became greatly expanded.
Then he wept and when asked "Why?" he said,
"I feel so little, so unworthy." The tears kept
flowing profusely and I have never at any other
time been privileged to see such utter and com
plete humility in a human being. I feel I was
greatly blessed to have witnessed such a sight.
Then I replied: "That surely makes the Lord
very happy. Now He can use you." I had fallen
on my knees in awesomeness and then prostrated
before the altar. Later we both stood before the
altar and consciously received the Master's bless
ing. I felt He held His hands above our heads
45
Transmitted Light
and made passes around us as if to form a shell
of protection.)
In a Cottage on Mt. Washington
Number 10 March, 1933.
Goodevening. We hardly need this instru
ment any more, do we? (Frank's reference here
was to the fact that he had made himself felt
and heard on several occasions to myself inde
pendently of any go-between. These experiences
would probably have increased and perhaps have
become more clear had I not felt that I was not
prepared enough or strong enough, because of
which I had asked him to be watchful lest we
drop in our aspirations and attempts to climb
higher.) But I am glad to say in words that I
have contacted you in this house. Shall not take
much time as there are so many here. I have
tried to be a friend as you have been to me. We
are blessed. The instrument is not the only one
who has enjoyed those photos. (He referred here
to some photos on the wall, pictures of a group
of Hindu and American students taken in Japan
in company with our Guru, the Baba Bharati, a
46
Transmitted Light
picture of Krishna, a picture of the Baba alone
and a picture of an altar in the Krishna Home
established in Los Angeles about 1905. The in
strument and I had just been standing in front
of these photos and receiving a blessing. Others
were evidently with us at the time and joining
us in the joy of it. Also I often meditated in front
of them and was some times joined in those medi
tations by a young woman who was with me in
the cottage. She and I harmonized splendidly
and had some very beautiful experiences together.
Frank evidently had enjoyed these with us.) I
also have enjoyed your meditation periods. They
have been lessons to me. My prayer is—may we
all continue to learn —to learn to love. Now,
Adieu. This is Frank, as you know.
B. F. speaking. I know you are anxious to
reach the sublime, but it is best to go step by
step. It is wise to call attention to the details of
the Lord's business. We are pleased with his
handling of details in his Center. Advise
him to be careful not to allow any vulgar inter
ests to enter into any portion of the work. It
must be a monument to Truth. Goodnight.
47
Transmitted Light
May we go on in the knowledge of the Love and
the Truth of the All-One. Goodnight.
A-U-M. Goodevening, goodevening, Lalita
and Latoo. During the past few weeks you have
witnessed the unfolding of prophecies and pre
dictions. You have seen those things which you
could not see previously. You have discovered
wherein lay your power, your comfort, and your
food. You have witnessed the comparison of
humility and service with that of willful determi
nation. Now has come the time when you must
decide and I believe there will be no hesitation.
Once you asked the instrument if he knew to
whom he had surrendered and now I give you
an explanation of that surrender. The beginning
was when he said "I am ready" and it progressed
to time when the Master anointed both of you.
You have looked at the group as a Circle, but
it is not a Circle. It is a Ladder. That letter sent
to a certain one contacted the earthly and first
rung of the Ladder, but the one climbing a Lad
der need not rest upon the first rung and so one
by one you have met the various Steps of the
Ladder until you beheld the Master's face.
Know thou that the one to whom the instrument
48
Transmitted Light
wrote is conducting a work which is indeed a
Center for the outpouring of Truth in direct con
nection with the Masters. Know also that all
ears register differently the same tone. The word
of Krishna offers as many sounds as there are
ears to hear it. This then, is an explanation.
Lean thou on the Lord, then all things are done.
This is Salentus. Goodnight. Blessings on both
of you. I give you your weaoons to use in the
battle of Love.
Chant. Foreign language. Ne-om, ne-om.
0, ye my beloved children, in the presence of the
sun of love, I bow my head, so bright it is. I
wonder that it does not penetrate the darkness,
if there is darkness. If I could see the light I
would know the Truth perfectly and be at rest.
Even darkness is of the Light. See with one eye,
not several eyes, thy lovely Lord. (The voice
was very soft and sweet and seemed to express
gratitude for Light received, but yearning for
more. His message impresses one as a soliloquy.)
(Then the instrument began talking. "Every
body is here again—all are so happy —something
is going to happen. A brass bowl on a stand.
There is just one opening in the group. We are
49
Transmitted Light
inside the group. The Master is not there yet.
They are waiting—all swaying." Then a beauti
ful voice gave a chant. —"Ne centerami —ne
centerami," repeated endlessly until I felt my
self swaying in unison with the rhythm. "A-U-M.
Everything shines—yes—watch now —see the
fire." Whistle. Blessings of love on the should
ers of our children who have passed the testing
time and now enter the door where the fire burns
out that which is not good. A new step is before
thee. Look up and sing praise to God, Father
and Mother, Brother and Sister all in One. Chant.
Open your mouth and your hands. The Lord's
will be done. All is His—open the mouth that
His words may roll out. Open the hands that
His works may be done. That is all. Whistle.
(The instrument said: "I will try. I will
try.")
Dear friends, I don't know if I should say
more or not. I want to. I appreciate, that is not
the right word, it is more than that. I appreciate
all the help you are giving me and all the others,
because I am trying to come within the thot of
Loving Service which you have propounded. This
time you made me look up and try. I am going
50
Transmitted Light
to try to live up to the thing outlined.
(Then the instrument said: "There are
twelve —one is still in the body. [On later analysis
it would seem that there are more still in the
body.] Frank, B. F. Agrasti, Salentus, Chakara-
ra, E . . . , Celestor, Baba, one next above I
do not know, J . . . , S . . . , The Master. Each
bows before the other. Frank is like a sergeant.
There are twelve grades and he is in the first
grade. Frank says there is some business not
finished or something you are planning to do."
Then Frank's voice broke in.)
I can say it better. There is some business
involving a small sum. You are going to con
sider what to do. Do not act on the first sugges
tion. You might know what to do but will be so
busy with other things that you might get con
fused. So don't follow the first suggestion which
of course will come from outside. Goodnight.
Blessings of Heaven on you and the instrument
and on all you contact in the name of the Lord.
(Then the instrument spoke. "There is a
woman in white, soft and smooth skin, nun's
head-dress, all in white. Is very near. Is in the
flesh—surrounded by yellow flowers." Then
51
Transmitted Light
some conditions were revealed which cannot be
told at this time. "Serve Truth and not man.
Man may have the truth, but serve the Truth
and not the man. Western license cannot be
mixed with Eastern knowledge and any good
come out of it.")
Number 11 Pasadena, Calif., April 11, 1933.
Ask and ye shall receive, O Child of Light.
I shall only take a moment to explain a question
in your mind, then you will understand experi
ences to come. Using the ocean idea—the pound
ing of the waves on the boat will destroy the
materials and they will be lost. There must be
two oceans. One light and one dark. Hoping
that these boats may ride always on the bright
ocean, but realizing that now and then they skip
over and rest on the dark ocean until the skipper
has become a perfect master of his craft. Now
it is undesirable that the craft shall be destroyed
in the dark ocean. And desirable that it should
be broken in the light ocean. Hence when I come
in to read for your instrument he knows not
what he has read, but does know what he has
heard and for that time has ridden on the light
52
Transmitted Light
ocean and so I have acted as a sieve and sorted
out the light from the dark ocean.
(I will have to explain here that I had handed
to the instrument a booklet which had just come
to my notice a few weeks previously and had
asked him to read it aloud. He had read only
a few moments when I noticed that his voice
had changed and also the expression of his face.
I realized that some one had come in and was
doing the reading. He had come to a passage
where the lines had been transposed and was
having a little difficulty, so I stepped to his side
and took the book to examine it and help out in
the reading as I had previously read the booklet.
When I returned the booklet to him I noticed
that his hand was perfectly rigid. So I said,
"Perhaps we ought not to read more," and laid
the booklet aside. Immediately the same voice
that had been reading thru the instrument started
speaking. In reading the booklet myself I had
received much help from it and was perplexed
to know whether it was only not good for the
instrument to read it or whether I should not
take an interest in
it,
hence the Speaker had
come in to explain.)
53
Transmitted Light
Do not feel bad for it is only what he cannot
see clearly that is darkness even tho it come from
the brightest light. Remember he is yet young.
However do not let loose of this new cord which
you have taken hold of. Follow until you have
uncovered that which shall answer your need.
May the confidence and blessing of Divine Mind
shine thru both forever, in the name of all the
Gods.
Chakarara.
Number 12 April 26, 1933.
Goodevening. This is Frank. Glad you
are here with the general center of activity.
I know things are going to work out beautifully
for all of us. Keep looking toward the Lord. I
am going to answer a question in your mind con
cerning meetings of this kind. I am sure it is
the intention of the workers to lead you no faster
and no farther than you are capable of going,
but I have found that their higher position en
ables them to guide over rough places which
might otherwise give injuries. You need have
no fear at any time. Goodnight.
Whistle. Chant. Ne-om-ne antras (repeated
54
Transmitted Light
many times). Blessings, 0 child of Light and
Love. The sweetest hours of life are those of
love burning thru its covers and I say there is
nothing more important to you or to me or to
your young friend (the instrument) or to any
truth-loving person than the activity of Love.
Let us preach in loud tones this message of lov
ing service. Preach it in the hallway—in the
stores —on the sands—in the gardens, with
words —with acts —with looks —with smiles—
always preach the message of loving service. Lov
ing service means service unto self, to thy brother,
to the universe, unto the Father of the universe,
service above all things first. This, I am sure,
you will find is the keynote and foundation of
all our labors. Blessings of wisdom, truth and
power descend on you both. Goodnight—chant
—vibrations—ne-om.
Whistle. I sing. Yes, it is the essence of
the teachings —this praising the Lord. I cannot
give you more if I talk forever than this Praising
the Lord. Now, I bring to you an explanation
of the things which mystify—are uncertain. This
afternoon I took the young man by the hand and
led him to the room of the temple where we
55
Transmitted Light
teach. Now—you do not come and go as you
please. You strive many times to enter and when
at last you lay yourself on the steps and say:
"Here I stay till the door opens," then the door
opens. So it is you are admitted to where the
little brown men of India worship. Do not feel
elated over that. (The medium and I had given
expression to an exclamation of joy) . The Lord
wills it so. It is a step. Do not thank me. Praise
the Lord. It is enough—I go.
Om-ne-om-ne-om. Goodevening, Mrs. .
I will take a little time to explain what we hope
to accomplish in the near future. We expect to go
on in a scientific manner, step by step, giving
communications which may be used as lessons in
consecutive order for development and ascension
into high spiritual spheres. Only the initiate will
be able to understand and make use of them, but
the basis for the simple and beginning structure
of instruction has already been laid in previous
communications. Hence it will be possible for
all seekers to find their needs fulfilled from this
one source. It is certain that your own efforts
blend with and qualify these new things which
you are receiving. Continue to serve the Lord
56
Transmitted Light
as you have been doing. I am sure that all de
tails will work out in proper time. It might be
well, however, for me to say that altho we are
able to see much that you cannot see and usually
find it within our power to restrain those things
which would act as obstacles to the working out
of our interpretation of the Lord's plan, we are
not always able to determine just how certain
ones which are not directly under our influence
will react to our or your efforts. Unfavorable
conditions will always be surmounted in some
manner. Have no fear. The power of truth can
never be overcome. Blessings of all the heavenly
forces.
O children, O children, O children, accept
the blessings—love—strength —mind—wisdom
of the One Who is all these things. It is here.
Know thou the Lord thyself —Amen—Amen.
(The instrument put the palms of his hands to
gether and raised them to his forehead in salu
tation).
The organization can be brot together
without strain above the ordinary strain of open
ing. I might give you some details, but it is best
not to do so, for you might try to avoid some
57
Transmitted Light
things and miss more important things. Try to
live each day and do not build in the past or the
future. (This last paragraph from B. F.)
Number 13 About May 3, 1933.
Goodevening. It took time to get in
tonight. The instrument is very tired and
strained. He has been ill. Before long one of
the Higher Forces will undertake to correct the
physical condition. But it will be necessary to
have longer periods than are now possible. Your
garment is comfortable and appropriate and the
color should be interesting to most people. (I
had felt that I should have on a light colored
garment, a robe, if possible, and remembered
that I had a very light blue negligee, so quickly
slipped it on over my dress and the instrument
had spoken of it when he entered and we had
both agreed that I ought to wear some such gar
ment for this work and so it was approved.) I
am needed to quiet conditions. Goodnight.
Ne-om. Chant. Greetings, greetings. Sweet
indeed are these days of labor with such willing
and obedient friends as you are. Beloved ones
know that the way of the Lord is full of sweet
58
Transmitted Light
ness, joy and beauty for the Lord is All. Realize,
dear children, that this very understanding of
all-ness makes it possible for you to hear and
understand the vibrations which I now cause to
arise in your brain of expression. Know that it
is impossible to assimilate or to understand with
out this realization of Allness and Oneness. Suc
cess and progress then, in these things that are
done for the glory of the Lord are only manifes
tations of the Lord. Now it is important for you
who have given yourselves to service to realize
that you cannot serve unless you are fit and able
to serve. Thence consecration unto service
means, as has already been said, that you must
first serve yourself, thus serving the Lord within
thyself and then serve the Lord everywhere.
For the Lord serves Himself. (It is well that the
student, does not misunderstand what it means
to serve self. That is the trouble with the world.
Each is serving self. But when one has conse
crated himself to service he has surrendered per
sonal self once for all, then when he serves him
self by taking care of his health, etc., he is truly
serving the Lord and making himself more effi
cient in service.) Now, my dear friend Lalita, I
59
Transmitted Light
have gone into this not for you but for the instru
ment who is being used. He must be made to
realize that even tho his body is consecrated to
the Lord in love, that the Lord Himself has set
limitations upon the manifestation of the body,
but He has set no limitation upon the manifesta
tion of loving service. One more thing, concern
ing the manuscript. It is in perfect accord with
development that the instrument be permitted
to read it as you both desire. (This referred to
a book manuscript which I was just completing.)
When you and he are met together to consider
or discuss any given subject, that affirmation
or discussion may be expressed thru either one.
You know what I mean. When one questions,
the answer will come thru the other. (We found
this to be true.) Your affairs reach always into
our midst and like a mother we try to answer.
Grow to be noble specimens of God's love. Good
night. God bless you forever and ever.
Good evening, Mrs. . I take a few
minutes for details. When the instrument is
overstrained it will not do him or his work or the
Lord's work any good. Some people called on
him and I tried to contact him to make a deal,
60
Transmitted Light
but was unable to get in because of his tension.
(If we would relax and keep a quiet mind we
could always get help. This instrument was often
guided to make a deal which was a benefit to
himself and the other party as well. Don't think
that these higher forces will help you make a deal
in which you get the benefit at the expense of the
other fellow. They do not work that way.) You
must not plan things in your own mind. There
are other things ahead, but there is not time to
tell them now. He has a beautiful attitude, but
is not efficient. But we love him and we love
you as we do all who turn their faces to the light,
whether high or low, whether doing the work or
just helping. When I say "We" I mean those
above me. They have said so to me. I believe
that if our instrument would plan to put an aver
age of not more than ten hours a day in contact
with business it would be better for him. The
out doors and sunshine will do him good. We
are well pleased with things and have no fear
for the future. Do all for the glory of the Lord.
Goodnight.
Oh, lift thine eyes, my children, to the
bright, shining One. Let not the lids fall too
61
Transmitted Light
soon. See the shining beauty of our Lord clothed
in gold. Cock thy ear to catch the music of His
flute. Bow before Him now and kiss His rosy
feet and He shall bless thee with Love, with
Love, with Love.
Number 14 May 10, 1933.
The law of progression provides that
your actions must bear fruit. When one is in
a predicament it is usually the result of their
own action. The best way to help them is not
to lift them but open the doors for them to climb
themselves. One who worships personality has
a warped mind. Mr. wants to save two
pictures for future development. He wants them
under your care. There is some purpose in all
this, seems to be a chain. (Instrument talking in
semi-trance. "I hear musical notes and see water
dropping over rocks." Later found this to refer
to a future musical composition. Here the medium
repeated his oft used prayer of praise.) 0, we
praise Thee, Power Divine, everlasting glory
Thine. 0, Life of all, from star to sod, praise we
Father, Mother, God.
A-U-M. Greetings, greetings, beloved La
6?
Transmitted Light
lita. Let us talk a few words. Do not write.
(Here I entered into a very natural and pleasant
conversation with the one speaking.) For the
instrument—too much attention to details is de
structive to his work. He cannot radiate peace
like he used to do. (A Mary radiates love and
peace, but a Martha who is involved in details
and allows them to crowd out her soul life can
not radiate.) May all of God's Light be reflected
thru you and the instrument. Chant.
Goodevening. We do not complain. We
simply go on. Use what is at hand. The Divine
Mind has provided the way. The Lord is both
the obstacle and the way. I want to contact you
directly. Direct contact will help us all. It is
coming soon.
Number IS About May 15, 1933.
Good afternoon. I come to open the
doors. Praise ye the Lord. Forget not to praise
for He is everywhere. Praise ye. (Then came
a personal message giving directions for the in
strument to go to Long Beach to buy a certain
article. We were told the exact location, the
63
Transmitted Light
name of the business concern, the exact descrip*
tion of the article including color and price and
were told not to look elsewhere unless we wanted
to for they, our messengers, had looked many
places and had picked the best bargain for him.)
Glory to the Lord—all of Him—Praise, praise,
praise.
Number 16 About May 18, 1933.
Goodevening to you. It is so good to
find you worshipping before the altar. (I had
on this night placed an Egyptian-altar incense
burner on the table and felt that instead of the
messenger talking to us in my room, I had actu
ally gone away and was standing before an altar
in a pyramid of Egypt and was listening to a
service there. It was a very joyous experience.)
Know that the essence of worship concentrated
in such beauty casts a beam of light as your
searchlight casts a beam across the sky. It is
so very seldom that souls encased in bodies are
able to attain the connections and still keep the
earthly balance which you find connected with
yourself. (It would seem that this is the case
64
Transmitted Light
because I have persistently refused to try to de
velop along these lines, but have clung to the
thot that I must seek the kingdom first and then
all that belonged with that would be given me.
I believe this the only safe way.) It is given to me
this evening to instruct in the fundamentals of
life. After this when expecting communication
with disembodied souls always draw a vessel of
fresh water —ask a blessing upon it and place it
beside your altar. Why? Because water is the
material manifestation of two of the God forces'
most potent attributes, transparency and elastic
ity. I shall leave this for you to meditate on. This
is the beginning of the Science of Life and Loving
Service. Worship God every moment, with every
breath realize that you are accepting from Him.
In out-breathing you are giving back to Him.
Your are only a channel. Goodnight.
Goodevening. I was also surprised at our
beloved teacher's explanation, but it relates to
what I have to do. Both these qualities are needed
in business. (Reference is undoubtedly made to
the qualities of transparency and elasticity.
These qualities as relating to the human being
would mean honesty and flexibility of mind.
65
Transmitted Light
Ready to adjust to conditions as they come and
go.) None should be overtaxed, for they are all
souls advancing toward the sun of knowledge.
(Here came the idea that it is sometimes right
to use legal action against a person. It might
be kindness to the person rather than to let them
go on in error and also harm others. It would
not harm the one bringing that action if he were
not angry and were doing this only in the spirit
of helpfulness to all concerned.)
Number 17 May 21, 1933.
Good afternoon Mrs. . Conditions
are perfect today. We can radiate stimulating
vibrations so he should not worry. There is no
top or bottom for the Lord is both. B. F. wants
to talk.
Good afternoon. As it is easier to go down
hill than up so it is easier for us to get thru
when it rains. (A rainy day.) There is less
etheric resistance and less electricity. In Santa
Ana go to the office of and ask about a
party whose goods and equipment are being taken
over for a debt. You buy the merchandise and
66
Transmitted Light
let the others take over the equipment. In that
way you will help this man to pull himself out
as well as get goods cheap for yourself. You must
be there before noon tomorrow otherwise it will
be too late. In any work there must be order and
system, definite action and purpose. ( It was
found on investigation that the party mentioned
could with a little cash start anew in life and
also needed money immediately to care for a
relative seriously ill in a hospital. Immediate
action might spell the difference between life and
death. The deal was made at noon and that same
afternoon he was on the way to the hospital to
provide for the relative. In less than twenty-
four hours from the time we first heard of the
situation the way was cleared for this party.
When he asked the instrument how he knew
about it the answer was "A friend told me about
it." This incident gives you some idea of how the
Order of Loving Service works. Some times it
happens that when we try to serve we only hinder
because we do not see the whole plan hence it
is wise and necessary to be guided by Those who
can see farther than we. One who can see the
situation from various angles.) Accept thru me
67
Transmitted Light
blessings from the highest and the lowest —the
all in all.
I want to tell you about rain and its power.
You remember the symbol of water as given be
fore. It is God pouring Himself out on His be
loved. Atmospheric conditions as they are today
are the easiest possible times for communication.
Behold the Lord has disclosed Himself in drops
of water— countless as He is immeasurable —
bathe in Him. Bless Him as He blesses thee.
Now, dear ones, the meditation which he (the
instrument) offered this morning was the most
beautiful ever heard. All the associates were
happy because of incense and fire which reached
the dome of heaven. Children of Krishna. Chant.
Krishna. Signed Agrasti.
Greetings. In regard to the symbol on your
book. The idea is good, but add these marks
and see what it means to you. Put your title
word across the top. The book itself is a rec
tangle. (This statement, that the book was a
rectangle was repeated several times until I
realized that this thot was important.) From
one corner draw a line to the opposite corner
not quite reaching the edge. This makes two
68
Transmitted Light
triangles. The line is a unit or one, two triangles
make two, a triangle has three sides or three, the
book is a rectangle or four. This gives you the
one, two, three, four. Then in the lower corner
place the cross of balance + which also gives you
the one, two, three, and four. The numbers you
have used in the book are not only numerical,
but also cabalistic and spiritual and even celes
tial. All vibrations travel on a diagonal line and
new creations are the crossing of two diagonal
vibrations. Blessings of the Masters. Salentus.
Number 18 May 24, 1933.
Goodevening, Lalita. Child of Light. More
peace and calmness for you, and more joy,
and know the bliss of power released. Know the
soft word of Krishna. Rest in Him and drink
the milk of Love. Sweet is the Lord and even
so shouldst thou be for the Lord does shine thru
thee. Chant.
In the name of Love I come. I want to take
time to explain some things. The Heart of the
Universe is about to be opened on the earth and
the blood of Life will be poured out in vessels
49
Transmitted Light
for the children to drink. Think well of what I
say. The secrets of the ages will be revealed, not
because you are you, but because you are of the
Lord. Soon you shall know the gathering together
of workers. You shall know them by the radiance
of their being, by their humility and by their
simpleness of being, and power shall be radiated
over the face of the earth and many shall be
awakened and then thy work upon earth shall
be done and the Lord shall carry thee home in
His arms. And as all things are done well by
the Lord so even this shall be mighty yet fine
and small, for the power of Love is greater than
the measurements of the universe yet all is in
the atom. The scientist, the doctor, the lawyer,
the minister, and the laborer are confounded by
a simple sentence uttered thru a servant of
Krishna. All things have begun. Go forward
in loving service and know the Lord better every
day. This is the beginning. Think not of the end
for there is no end. Krishna.
Good afternoon. I had to bow. (I think this
statement was made because the vibrations of
the foregoing message had been extremely high
and devotional and reverent.) Every parcel that
70
Transmitted Light
goes cut must carry a message. Everything you
touch will carry its message. (It is possible for
one to carry on a business in such a radiant and
joyous state of consciousness that every article
sold would carry with it a message and a bless
ing without the utterance of a word.) Seclude
yourself, but make contact possible. Fear not
to let any one enter. None can contaminate the
Lord's children. As to liquor, most doctors and
scientists base their findings on personal pre
judices. The Lord cannot be evil. Thinking
makes it so. Fear not to act as the center post for
the gathering of souls. You need not so much
to pray for wisdom. Pray rather for self confi
dence. The Lord has told you what to do. Go out
and obey. Santa Ana party will probably find
himself on new uproad. He can go upward now,
but needed some lessons first. (This referred to
someone who had been helped under Their direc
tion. See message No. 17.) Again I act as a
trumpet and give blessing from the others.
Number 19 June 1, 1933.
Goodevening. Learn and live. Live and
71
Transmitted Light
love. Love and serve. Serve and know. Know
and be. (Read this also thus : Learn to live. Live
to love. Love to serve. Serve to know. Know to
be.) Greetings. Know that it is wise to serve
in simplicity. The Lord is simplicity itself. Com
plexity is of the mortal mind. God is love, truth,
power and being. Prepare yourselves that you
may be able to enter the next door for behold
the agents of the Master will await thee on the
21st day of June. Be ready. Forget all else. For
get thy desires for anything but simpleness. For
get all except the Lord. His throne is beautiful
and needs no human decorations. Be ready, be
ready. The Lord loveth thee.
Goodevening Mrs. . I did not intend
to come but Frank called me. You should use
the house (a certain cottage) and it is best to
have a written agreement. Have it on paper as
there are certain persons who want to control.
It is the Lord's plan that His children shall be
protected and this protection is needed more for
her and the boy than for you. Go to an attorney,
but not to as you have already been
warned against him. (Evidently when Frank
came to open the door he sensed these questions
72
Transmitted Light
in my mind and called this one to talk to me.)
Let lawyers and others do for you. Do not mix
in details. Realize that all will turn for good. If
you take a piece of metal that is bright on one
side and dull on the other and suspend it so it is
not stable but dangles, the light will strike first
on one side and then on the other. If it strikes
the bright side the light will be reflected. If it
strikes the dull side the light will be absorbed.
This is why we cannot always tell what a person
may do. Tell the instrument to be quiet and
patient and to be thankful for all things, even
for that which appears evil. We will meet you
in the new place more easily and perhaps in ways
that will amaze you. Tell the instrument that he
must consider that all the people who are helping
him are serving the Lord and that they must do
it well. He must expect the best and not be too
lenient.
Chant. Face the instrument and open your
hands. I will give healing. (The instrument also
opened his hands.) Chant. Healing distinctly felt.
Instrument felt great warmth. I felt peaceful and
free.
73
Transmitted Light
Number 20 June 7, 1933.
You recognize the importance of the com
ing event. So does the instrument. Preparation
is essential. Next few days are examination days,
tests for promotion, tests different for each. Give
all you have to the demands of the day with the
heart and mind full of the Lord's name and you
will win. You each have failed. So has all ex
pression. No one has had perfect expression as
yet. So do not consider where you have failed,
but do the best each day. We do not mark your
failures. We mark your accomplishments. I will
give you the plan. We shall not contact until
the 21st. I also am taking examinations. This
blessing on the 21st is for many. There are cer
tain periods on the earth plane for these things.
Taking charge of the business is for my develop
ment too. We want you to see how well he, the
instrument, follows and how well we can direct.
He must not work in haste, but with definite,
positive strokes. None should find himself hasty
or uncertain in vital matters. He must provide
to take time so he can embody each act with
spiritual force, then it cannot fail. He should
74
Transmitted Light
be the center, a quiet and peaceful center and
radiate directions and then all will work in har
mony and for each other and give him time to
sing praise before the eyes of men. Do not buy
furniture from the party you have in mind for
that party never had any thot but of failure and
the furniture is permeated with it. There is great
effect in association. Even chairs and tables can
not get rid of it. It would be better to burn them.
I wish he could develop the ability to see people
for himself, to see the heart. He wonders about
friction. The only way to get rid of detailed work
is to shed it. Carrying too much is as bad as
carrying too little. He is not helping the work
or plan by overloading. An electric motor over
loaded burns out. The Lord does not ask so
much. It is the mortal mind that does the push
ing. Praise and glorify. When a perception from
the higher astral has been received, it is not fair
to fail to use or apply that perception when re
ceived. You must go to the cottage. There will
be much joy and little sorrow. Much work will
be done in the name of the Lord and the Brother
hood of Loving Service. The two pictures you
are to get are identical in size. They will be of
75
Transmitted Light
value to the Brotherhood. The Lord tests people
to show them how much they can do in His
name.
Greetings, greetings, greetings. May sweet
songs of love surround thee always as circles
surround the moon in the skies above. Clouds
floating before the moon only seem to hide the
circles. Love permeates everything. Love is the
greatest power. Love is life. Love is God. Drown
thyself in love, in love, in love, in love.
(Then the instrument spoke semi-consci-
ously. Celestor leads you thru the door. I go
another way, but we all come together again.
Agrasti takes me. A lot of them are coming.
All we know and others. The Master will be
there. I see a blue key.)
Tell him (the instrument) not to be the
hands, but the head. The head can't do the work
of the hands, nor can the hands do the work of
the head. Put things in their right place.
Number 21 June 13, 1933.
Ne-om. A-U-M. Chant. Greetings in the
name of the Most High. There is no greater
76
Transmitted Light
work than waiting upon the Lord, than feeding
and caring for and anointing the Lord, Krishna.
Why, then, should one ask for work to do ? When
Krishna stands waiting for food, for a cloak about
His shoulders, for cold water, for sweet oils upon
the body, waiting, always waiting for His own
beloved devotees to appear from out the throngs
that constantly pass Him by. Even the throng
is Krishna tho they know Him not. Ask nothing
but that thou mayest always know Him. Sing,
sing His name, over and over. (This messenger
then said "Krishna, Krishna, Krishna, Krishna,"
until the sound died out in the distance. And I
seemed to see him walking into infinite space
until I could no longer hear him and the word
"Krishna" became a faint whisper.)
(Then the instrument intoned many tones
that sounded like a cornet. I was surprised and
wondered about it.) Goodevening. You won
dered what is all that. We were tuning his vocal
chords for use. They were tense when he let go
and remained tense. Goodnight, but I am not
going far. Frank.
Greetings, greetings. Sweet are the words
of Love which are allowed to float from one re
77
Transmitted Light
ceptacle to another, enlivening, sweetening all
that they touch and so, my dear children, I beg
you always to recognize the power in love which
you are asked to give forth. The essence of vital
life is concentrated and gathered in thots of Love.
It is developed and released in the words of Love
and starts on an endless travel of returning to
its home, and so again I say, Love is the key
which will unlock the doors of explanation of
mysteries of life. Thou hast the key. There is the
door. What more shall the Lord say to you?
Chant.
(Then some one came in and said "Good
evening" and whispered many words that were
too faint to catch, except that I could hear a re
peated "yes, yes, yes." Probably they were say
ing a softened "yes" to the beautiful words of
love that had just been spoken. It is unfortunate
that it is impossible to give in written words the
vibrations that go with these messages, but those
whose hearts are attuned may catch some of the
softened blessing.)
Goodevening, I talked with you long ago.
Paul Renee. When the piano is in the church I
will come often and maybe sometime I can play
78
Transmitted Light
for you. The instrument has changed the past
few days. All will be well and many, many will
be here. (Then he sang a part of a song, very
beautiful and a very beautiful voice. He stated
that he could not finish the song.)
Goodevening. The song that is best of all,
Mary sang. This is the song she sang to me, the
song her mammy used to sing to her. "Lord, I
love Thee day and night. Lord, I love Thee day
and night, etc." I am Sam. They call me Uncle
Sam. He, the instrument, did much for me. He
let me talk to my little girl. Even the black folks
get somewhere sometimes. Goodnight to you.
Swing out, swing out—good evening—years
ago I guided him. I am Gato. I gave him only
one message. Swing out. He is reviewing his
history in preparation for cleansing and accept
ing a new garment. Swing out and then let loose.
May I introduce myself. I am Philip Car-
dar. The instrument never knew me by name,
but by vibration. He knew me before he knew
Gato. When he was very young he was hurt and
he gave up the flesh body and went into the astral
without direction, hurrying about, and I was in
the path and used all power to ease and slow him
79
Transmitted Light
down and return him to the flesh body before
harm came, and have often kept him from going
out for the call has not come yet. And now the
moment is at hand when the body becomes more
fitted and refined to carry the loving servant.
In preparation he
is,
from his present astral po
sition, going over his life, seeking to reach the
point which
is
the birth point to mortals. Then
it
is
possible for one to acquire knowledge of
spiritual things. An empty container can be
filled, but
a
full one only runs over. Back and
back he must go.
Praises forever more. Chant. Oh, my friend,
may this evening be
a
great blessing on your new
home.
(I
had just moved into the cottage con
nected with the Little White Church where we
were beginning work under the direction of the
Order of Loving Service.) May
it
be filled so full
that all who come near will be drawn into the
circle of Loving Service, drawn into power, drawn
into love. May the flame reach to the high hea
vens so
it
may be seen from the East to the West,
so all who look up may see the Star resting on
earth again. (A blessing was then poured out
80
Transmitted Light
upon us so that the house really was alive with
love and power.)
(Then the instrument returned to semi-con
sciousness and began to talk with those around
him.) Hello, Uncle Sam. You look happy. Is
Stella all right? (This probably was the daughter
to whom Uncle Sam had referred. Evidently the
instrument was getting answers and carrying on
a conversation tho I could hear only what he
himself said.) Paul Renee, did you find anyone
to get that music yet? Better that way as they
are close. (Paul Renee had at one time talked
with me about wishing to get out an opera that
he had just about finished before passing out and
had said he could work thru me if I wished. It
was very tempting but I had too much other
work to do.) Good evening, Lenore. What is
mother Smith doing now? (Then the instrument
began talking to me.) There is a black haired
woman close to you. The hair is combed down
and then back. Seems to be Oriental, possibly
Japanese. She wants to tell you something. You
followed your intuition and did something for
someone of whom she is very fond. There is also
a black robed man close to you, very round faced
81
Transmitted Light
and very happy looking, middle aged or more.
Perhaps a priest.
Number 22 June 16, 1933.
A-U-M. Chant. Greetings, children of
Light. May the sweetness of the Lord's voice
rest with you and calm your fears and in that
calmness may you feel the realization that there
is no separation. All is one. The man, the spirit,
the soul are one. The earth, the trees, the sky
are one. The One and the man are one. That is
the extent of my message, that there is no separa
tion, and that relieves you of all fear and worry
if you follow the one-pointed way. If you mop
the floor are you not bathing the Lord and is it
not the Lord doing the bathing? That is just as
good as writing beautiful words. And if the in
strument figures or preaches what is the differ
ence? And even on the 21st if you need to do
the things you do not wish to need to do—will
it not be the Lord? The Lord is always for His
own. Sing, sing. Krishna, Krishna, Krishna,
Krishna, Krishna.
Goodevening. You did not ask for me and
82
Transmitted Light
it is well. I might not have come in that case.
(In a former message this party had stated that
he could not appear again until after the 21st as
he also was going thru tests and examinations.
So on this evening altho we needed some advice
along lines in which he usually guided us, we
decided not to call him. Then he continued
speaking.) It is just as much my need to appear
for I must look after what was entrusted to me.
(By not asking for him we left him free and so
it may have been his test to see if he was ready
to serve even tho very busy elsewhere.) I, too,
have fallen short, but as I have been forgiven
and uplifted so do I endeavor to do. He (the in
strument) received well this A. M. and during
the day. This experience will not be costly finan
cially because of the new plan coming from it.
It is well worth while. Nothing is lost. Every
experience has value. Ask him to finish telling
you what he started to tell. He must learn to
rely on his impressions and carry things thru.
A plan only half done is only half done. Action
must take place when the time is right. I hope
all these things can be attended to before Tues
day if possible. I do not say that I will not be
83
Transmitted Light
drawn into these things after Tuesday but I do
not want to be. The Lord is both the plants and
the energy to care for them. If only one plant
is given you to take care of, take care of that with
all your energy and power. If acres of plants
are given you, you can do that too, for the Lord
is both the plants and the energy. I am just
learning this myself. (Then the instrument gave
the Lord's Prayer in song.)
Dedication in the Church.
Number 23 June 21, 1933.
Greetings. In the name of Light I come.
You did not expect to meet me in this way, did
you? Now you will know why you were to go
thru these things. Prepare for the most beautiful
revelation that can be given to mortal. And the
greatest responsibility that Krishna can ask of
mortal. Prepare to receive the hand of the Mas
ter. Blessed art thou. Blessed is the earth. Be
hold the mystery of the Lord, unto Himself giv
ing knowledge, unto Himself giving Love, wor
ship, service, food, love. Know that this day is
a monument unto the progress of the Lord to
84
Transmitted Light
His own throne, for today is the church organized
on the earth plane, the Church of Loving Service,
to which all may come and receive, for the Lord
waiteth therein and in sweetness does He give.
The door is opened unto all creatures everywhere,
to find that which they seek. Today is it given
to the children of earth to know that light shineth
and will guide forevermore. Thou art accepted
and consecrated as light bearer in the Church
of Loving Service. Lalita and Latoo. May your
lights never flicker, dim or fail. No more dost thou
say, "Take me," for thou art taken. No more
can you say, "I am myself," for thou art not. Only
the Lord is. Go into dark places with thy light,
that those who are in darkness may be led. The
Lord shall speak to thee and say: "Go hither
and comfort my child" and there thou shalt find
one in need. Thou shalt heal the sick and feed the
hungry and clothe the cold. Do all in the Lord's
name and the Church of Loving Service shall
encompass the earth and the Lord shall stand
at the altar in glowing white. Bow your head
to receive the blessing of the Master. (There
was deep silence for a long time and a sense of
exquisite sweetness. The Master gave His bless
85
Transmitted Light
ing. The White Brothers were seen encircling
the earth and then they gathered in groups for
the blessing. They filled and surrounded the
church. They were all in white robes and in a
white light.)
Go quietly on until you reach the next door.
I, as an humble servant, will guide you. Be sim
ple. Avoid complexity. Avoid unusual things.
Be simple and natural. Celestor. (He spoke with
extreme kindness and softness. He seemed still
awed and filled with the wonder of the Master's
blessing.)
To my pupil. Latoo. Praise the Lord in
duty well done. The Lord is in all forms. Praise
Him and serve Him and all is well. We only
require that you serve well, and that requires
that you live simply and quietly in a life of Love.
Fear not that they seek ye, for are not light
houses put on the shore that ships may find the
harbor? Turn not away. Serve well. Agrasti.
Salutations. May the words of strength pour
forth from your lips. May love radiate from your
hands and the breath of life from your minds,
to all you contact. Definite points are needed to
establish the church and once started it cannot
86
Transmitted Light
be destroyed or left. This is just the beginning
and you will not always be here. Past service has
prepared you for this and this shall prepare you
for another, and up, and up. There are many
scientific explanations of spiritual and celestial
truths and these explanations shall confound
many who have sought to discover them. These
things shall come between you two, and the Lord
shall be seen, and there shall come thru test
tubes such things as can not be found alone by
those that have not the heart. At six o'clock this
evening, each in your separate abode, be pre
pared to receive that which shall cloak you with
new strength, the garment that shall clothe you
in the Church of Loving Service. Now go with
the blessing of all of the Lord's servants.
Number 24 June 27, 1933.
You had a terrible time today, didn't
you? Get the blue pictures. One of and
one of Mrs. . Get them for her good, for
your good, for the good of the Brotherhood. They
will be a nice nest egg for the Brotherhood. You
are right about Mr. . He works with us.
87
Transmitted Light
He was not conscious of it while on the earth
plane, but is getting so now. How did you like
my singing ? Never fear. I will always bring you
home safely. I am a good chauffeur. (This message
needs explanation. The instrument and myself
had been told to go to Los Angeles to select two
pictures. We were told the prevailing color of
the pictures and the titles. The reference to Mr.
confirmed a belief I had long held that
he was also a member of the Brotherhood and
often working with us in direct contact. It seemed
that I had been sent to the Little White Church
to secure it and to start there the Order of Lov
ing Service. Many changes have come since
then and often it was hard to discern the plan,
but gradually it is being unfolded and the con
nection between the different people and the
various events disclosed. No doubt, some day we
will see the chain complete with each link strong
and in its proper place. The reference to the sing
ing, the chauffeur, etc., must also be explained.
The reference to the terrible time was made for
several reasons. In the first place we were using
a borrowed car that we had not seen until time
to leave, and we doubted if it would hold to
88
Transmitted Light
gether till we got back. Secondly, on arrival at
our destination we found the place closed for a
half holiday which meant a wait of a couple of
hours. In the third place, we had to eat lunch
and dinner in out of the way places and the food
was so unfit that we were made ill, I slightly and
the instrument very terribly. While on the high
way about 9 o'clock he became so ill that he could
no longer drive so he pulled to one side to wait.
After more than a half hour, during which time
we both did some definite work in the silence
he tried to start the machine and found we were
stuck in the sand. He struggled and tried to dig
us out for another half hour, but finally gave up
and went down the highway for help. I was
amazed to see how strong and active he had be
come suddenly. When we were pulled out of the
sand he started the car and all went well. Then
I noticed he was singing so enthusiastically, old
familiar church songs. It dawned on me that
the voice was not his own. I spoke to him sev
eral times and he did not answer, just smiled
and kept on singing. Then I touched him gently
and still no response. Then I knew that our
friend Frank was driving and not the instrument.
89
Transmitted Light
I was a little startled at first, but soon felt quite
comfortable and happy in the new experience.
We still had probably ten miles to go, the last
part of it down hill and thru moderate traffic,
but I saw he was doing very skillful driving. I
asked him to stop down town so I could ask for
mail. He made a perfect stop and when I re
turned to the car he had awakened and made the
last half mile himself. When we arrived at my
home I asked him to come in so we could find
out if we had accomplished our errand satisfac
torily and the first words that came thru were:
"You had a terrible time today." When he asked
me how I liked his singing, I answered that I
liked his singing all right but did not like the
idea of his stealing my chauffeur. To this he re
plied that he was a better chauffeur himself and
that I need never have any fear for he would
always bring me home safely. I must confess that
after the first surprise was over, I had felt very
much at ease and fully protected.)
Number 25 July 5, 1933.
Swing out into the ocean of love. Let
90
Transmitted Light
go, swing out, swing out, swing out.
Good evening. Know that all the praise of
the heart ascends to the Heart of the One and
there created into realities and returned. No
prayer is unanswered. The prayer is answered
and so know the Lord's children. It is prayer
that is answered. Do not be overcome. Be
thrilled with power and activity. The Lord does
not absorb. He manipulates and uses what is
given to Him. They do not lose identity but be
come focus points of the Lord's power. To be
drowned does not mean lost but is a specific
point.
Good evening. Many things to say and do.
Do not make any move about the property (the
church) yet, perhaps later. Hope the Brother
hood may use this for some time to come but it is
not wise to try to shoulder a burden which is not
rightfully yours. When that portion of experi
ence is worked out it will be time to take hold.
Slowness to action must be overcome in the Lord.
A person must have good intentions, love and a
desire to serve, otherwise they cannot remain
in the work. The Lord's name has been exempli
fied the past few days in his, the instrument's,
91
Transmitted Light
work. He has worked hard. His errors will be
corrected. Use good business sense at all times
for the Lord would not do otherwise. One must
never be discouraged if working for the Lord.
Show others the door, but do not open it. Teachers
fail by pushing the door open. Regarding
and his spiritual understanding. He is learning of
the Lord, so do not be surprised if the Lord's eyes
shine thru his. So much has been accomplished
that you cannot see.
Whistle. A prolonged A-U-M. Accept the
blessings of the Divine Word and know that the
Lord Himself smiles on you. March on Lalita
and Latoo, light bearers in the Church of Loving
Service.
Number 26 July 6, 1933.
Goodevening. The present experiences are
for training. A lesson in persistence. One
finds difficulties in spiritual work, too. Great
burdens placed upon him now but lessons have
to be learned. These lessons are being given to
twenty and at least one will march on. All must
work for the Lord, then all is harmony. Buy the
table and benches that were offered today, for
92
Transmitted Light
there is more involved than just the table and
benches. The man who wishes to sell them has
a wife and daughter and a son who has a wife
and child. These six had just fifty cents in cash
today. They need the money and you need the
table and benches. (We did not see where we
needed them but as soon as we received them a
great need was revealed. Later these same benches
and table were used in three different places and
in each case filled a great need. So we were led
to be helped and to help others at the same time.)
The true foundation of business is to help all. We
do not wish to deal with big organizations. He
(the instrument) needs not be listless when all
the energy of the universe is behind him. We
can show people the door, but they must work
to get what they need. The strength of the uni
verse is ready. Drink deeply. We also tire, but
rest quickly and if we do not obey we go down
more than you can imagine. Do not be misled
by cheap price for things, but build well for a
permanent work. I am just told that.
Number 27 July 11, 1933.
This is Frank. We were talking to you as
93
Transmitted Light
you suspected. Direct communication is best
for each of you. But for business or spiritual
work for many it is best for you to be together.
You both depend too much on external evidence.
Everything encounters trouble. You have to
push up hill. Fight out those conditions that
may appear as persons or other things. They
must not conquer. Lessons in persistence are the
best that can be given. I am going to later pre
sent an idea thru one of you which has done
much on the astral plane and can do much on
the physical plane. Love must remain in a house
hold or in an undertaking. If things are not con
genial, they must be antagonistic. Two legs work
together, but the arm and leg do not work to
gether. When viewpoints are very different peo
ple cannot understand one another. One cannot
understand how one can give up everything and
have anything left. The one wants things, the
other wants nothing.
From Agrasti. Use the name "Order of Lov
ing Service." The word, church, has been too
much abused. Simplicity is always powerful.
So simplicity must be the key-note of all notices.
Speak of yourselves as representatives of the
94
Transmitted Light
Order of Loving Service which affords oppor
tunity for anyone interested to become acquainted
with a new doorway to Understanding. If you
present enough interest in your work you will
draw people. People like orders, clubs, societies,
especially mystery or mysterious power.
Number 28 July 13, 1933.
In the Church.
Ne-om. A-U-M. Greetings. May the
blessing and calmness of the House of Love
quiet thee and instill with new confidence. Blessed
are all things that you touch in the name of the
Lord.
Goodevening, Mrs. . Blessings and
joy in the early eve in this house. It is good
to find you both away from outer annoyance.
These moments fill you with strength. This
church business is more important than his busi
ness. People here are just as hungry for spiritual
food as they are in India, but the conditions
are different. Here they must be overwhelmed by
the physical first. The instrument must act more
quickly. He receives quickly, but acts slowly.
95
Transmitted Light
His reasons for slow action are altruistic, but
are not good for the situation at this time.
Number 29 July 17, 1933.
A-U-M. Behold always the Light above
the heads. It beckons onward. Asks each to come
farther and farther to discover the Light. Fear
not anything just so you hold it high enough
to be seen by all.
Goodevening. Retain your same position.
Do not put out any money now, but the prop
erty (church) must not go into other hands. Do
not worry. We will advise if necessary to do
anything, but Those Higher say you must be
ready to leave if things are lost. You ask about
the name Celestor. You will contact His writ
ings soon. Blessings of all. Goodnight to you and
our beloved instrument. May the nearness of
the Divine Father bless you both and give
strength forever and ever and ever. The instru
ment has been in good mind. I prolonged this
conversation so the Higher Ones could give him
a treatment. He is not sick but needs strength
ening.
96
Transmitted Light
Number 30 July 26, 1933.
• Ne-om. A-U-M. Chant. Greetings, my
children. Sweet indeed are the fruits of service.
None partake of them but those who cause the
tree of service to produce fruit and so I bid thee
go on serving, serving, for with such actions
the Lord shall know thee and accept thee back
into Himself. Continue to sing praises to the
Lord for your songs are your meat and your
drink. They are received into the heart of Him
and return to you with golden blessings to pro
vide your life. The Lord loves thee as He loves
all who serve—serve their fellowmen —serve
Krishna. Fear not for the Lord loves thee for
ever and there is naught else. Agrasti. Chant.
Agrasti.
Number 31 July 28, 1933.
A-U-M. It is too bad he (the instrument)
is sick. We shall do everything to correct and
hope it will not be often. Glad you have con
tacted him who speaks like me and who bows
his head when you speak my name. My vibra
tion no longer bothers you. Work moves rapidly
97
Transmitted Light
and soon will be full fledged. It will go on, must
go on. Nothing can stop it. The Lord knows not
defeat. All that has been told will come true.
Doubt not, fear not. Love the Lord and march
on. You have desired all your life and prepared
all your life. Now comes all joy. After appren
ticeship comes mastery. God bless you and the
instrument and the church and all. Chant.
Krishna.
Oh, child of Light. Singing the Lord's name,
I come. I bring you a message of joy and power.
I bring you power, strength, intuition, vitality to
carry on the work. Sweet are the ways of the
Lord. Sweet are . All the mysteries of
truth are uncovered. The only mystery left is
the mystery of yourself and soon that will be
uncovered. You will be given all knowledge of
Atonement, At-one-ment, Atunement, and Re
turn to Him. A golden stream of light shines
across the sky like a light beam to guide to the
landing field which all seek. The key to the next
door I bring. Thou art blessed, adored, loved.
Celestor.
Chant. My Lalita. The seeds planted long
ago are growing. Just one thing I warn you
98
Transmitted Light
about, become not involved in technicality. When
these lessons come take them naturally. (Refer
ence was made to a certain series of lectures
and lessons.) But that is not your way to grow
or to teach. I cannot use the instrument very
well. He is not yet attuned so as to get my voice
naturally. This lad knows not yet, nor do you
what it is all about. He loves you as does also
M. 1 know. (I had long felt that the instru
ment and the party mentioned as M. were stand
ing close to me in the work and close to the one
speaking.) This has been another keystone day.
Do you remember Ceylon ? The eyes of our Lord
Krishna have the penetration of all the universe.
There is nothing hidden and all that has been
foretold in His name is. Goodnight, my Lalita.
This is Dr. de Laurence. I am not excarnate.
(I believe this party is living in India.) En
courage him (the instrument) to continue in the
development which he has begun. My books were
the first he contacted. Hope to contact him in
the future. Wonderful contacts you have made.
Few occultists have attained such heights. Press
on is my message. I hope I can also enter into
these joys with you.
99
Transmitted Light
The instrument must be freed. May be
called to work—to address the people. When
either of you have the conviction that something
must be done, do it. Nothing can stop the work
done in the name of the Lord. Even if it seems
impossible. May blessings flow thru me to you
and all.—B. F.
Number 32 July 31, 1933.
A-U-M. Whistle. Goodevening. The place
is soothing. Everyone likes it. Temples are
always protected. The Love atmosphere is
the most powerful and potent. Not so quick, but
potent. I like (naming a certain party.) He is
snappy and attracts and is very good for opening
the place. But not the final plan. You will meet
a new friend whom you have seen and felt.
Frank.
This is Syecko Yam. My friend, may all
the Gods of heaven confer on you benefits and
joys and may you be preserved in the arms of
Love to carry on the mission of the Grand Mas
ters. I shall come often. No, I do not have a
necklace in my hands. What I hold is a rope
100
Transmitted Light
:::•.::*..■
of service. The cord that unites all
in,
service.
My head
is
shaven.
I
bow my- "head/
:
:*
*•' :*:
This
is
Renee speaking.
I
want to tell you
how
I
enjoy the contacts. Our mutual musical
friend will attain new planes
if
he will hold to
the beautiful attitude. Give him my best wishes
for success and higher attainment. Thank you
for your help.
Chant.
Number 33 August
3,
1933.
Were you laughing at me or with me?
(The instrument and myself had started laugh
ing heartily for no very apparent reason and
I
had said, "I guess Frank must be around." Frank
was always full of fun and good natured. And so
he asked the question, to which
I
heartily and
honestly answered that we were laughing with
him.) We can all laugh tonight,
I
guess. We
had to work hard today to save him from some
contacts that were not good. Just another test
for him. He will step up. There
is
light ahead,
coming right down to earth. New outlets will be
made so
it
can be poured forth in great quan
tities. —Frank.
101
Transmitted Light
' '
Gdodeveriing, It takes much strength to fight
''-\ici& contacts that are always ready to attack when
one is weak. He, himself, is always sweet and
gentle. I am telling you this so as to help build
a wall of protection. If he can accept things
peacefully he can thereby help those people who
are working against him. Those things are les
sons for him and for them. When things are
to be done—do them. When doubting, he is
doubting his sincerity in the cause of Truth.
Keep an open mind. I hope the prediction will
soon come true that he will soon be able to put
himself in the hands of Those who want to shed
light thru him. —B. F.
Accept the blessings of the Wise Ones and
the strength, power, peace, and love of the Di
vine Universal Contact and be a messenger al
ways. Goodnight.
102
INDEPENDENT MESSAGES
Greetings, O Sister of Light and may
the cloak of Heavenly Peace cover thee always.
Turn thy ear toward the Altar of the Temple
and hearken unto the Voice of the Lord. Hast
thou ever heard any so sweet? Hast thou ever
heard wisdom so clearly unrolled? Hast thou
ever known such powerful stillness as is there
displayed? Know then that thou art accepted
on the altar. Thou art of and with Him who
is All. Therefore art thou All. Even those whom
thou knowest not, thou art. Even those who
know not thee thou art. He is power—thou art
power—and concentrated units of power become
powerful.
Praise Him in All. —Agrasti.
Do all things in His name. —B. F.
(The foregoing letter was written to me in
March, 1933, under unusual circumstances. La-
too had intended writing me a personal letter on
a certain evening, but had been too utterly weary
to do so and had retired with the wish to write
in his mind. About two o'clock in the morning
he awoke to find himself sitting at the table with
103
Transmitted Light
a sealed envelope in his hand, the envelope ad
dressed to me. He said it was very difficult to
mail it without knowing what was in
it,
but he
resisted the desire to open
it
and sent
it
on.
It
carried with
it
exceedingly strong vibrations. The
first part of the message signed by Agrasti was
written in
a
large sprawling hand. The sentence
signed by B. F. was written in
a
close, concise
hand. Seemingly the envelope was addressed by
this second writer. Latoo, later writing of this
incident, said: "What an experience—very won
derful —
it
must have been
a
powerful letter for
light seemed to be everywhere!")
The Medorfic Spirit
is
no myth.
It
is
a
spe
cific delineation of the progressive and the
assumptive excarnate which has misinterpreted
the instructions and observations permitted him
as his restless and peaceless ego has forced its
way beyond the usual barriers of newcomers into
the veiled land.
It
is
a
warning and an explanation unto
the seeking minds of all fields, for the same re
sults might develop in any branch of research.
Realization of relationship and consequent
104
Transmitted Light
direction conscious of all activity in harmony
with such realization is the only safe and certain
pathway for mortals to undertake.
Be careful then of adventures which may
invite you from the marked conscious path.
—Chakarara.
Given to Latoo alone. Dec, 1932.
(The following independent messages came
thru in personal letters written to me by Latoo.)
Dear' child of service. "To thine own self
(God) be true" and believe in the Lighted way.
Even as the salt of the sea is sweet to the in
habitants thereof, so is the Lord's Name sweet
unto the children of Light.
The Orient sends greeting unto you. Blessed
be the words of your mouth and the works of
your hands. The flame of inspiration is fed
by devotion and the Eternal Songs of the Divine
Heart are heard only by that one who stills mortal
being sufficiently to hear the pulsations of In
finity.
The Holy Word of Life descended not unto
all people but unto them that are chosen of Life.
105
Transmitted Light
"Where dwelleth the Lord?" asked the lad
of his teacher. "In the Lord," answered the
teacher. Can this be true, dear children? Can
the Lord dwell within Himself? Study, think,
meditate until the seeming impossibility of this
inspired reply is apparent and open to your mor
tal consciousness. Do not tell me that you spir
itually comprehend this statement, for spiritual
understanding cannot exist without mortal under
standing, but mortal understanding can exist
without complete spiritual understanding.
The inspiration of Life is not to treat others
as they treat you, but to treat them according
to your understanding of their position and con
sequently to assist in the development of under
standing both in them and in yourself.
So it
is,
also, on the various other planes
of expression, for all planes are really reproduc
tions of the others only in coarser and slower
rates of vibration as they go downward from the
center or source spot of all creation. —Salentus.
106
A MESSAGE THRU ANOTHER
March 23, 1934.
O, Thy glorious Kingdom of Thy Father.
Let Glory and Light show thru every avenue
and the path be a golden one. Master of all the
ages. Light of the new joy. Love that brings
all out of darkness into the Light. The hour of
joy and peace beyond the understanding of
earthly minds. May the temples no longer sway.
All must be treated as brother and sister, but
do not bow or cater to others. Recognize soul
to soul relationship. None to say, this is Hindu,
Buddhist, Pythagoras, or Christ. It is Universal.
You are not worshiping dead Masters or a dead
statue. It was terrible to speak of money in
connection with the statue (a statue of the
Christ.) You have dishonored it by such thot.
God cannot be measured in money. Your soul
is golden—is more than gold. We know all you
107
Transmitted Light
think and do. The doors are sealed with love and
love must be here or you must go and be else
where to do as you wish. We come in love and
yet your ears are deaf. Your minds are dead.
When will you wake and be the Temple for Christ ?
Can't you smile and have a glad hand for all.
This is not a place for darkness. Your hateful
hearts must be torn out and replaced with hearts
of love. If you cannot work for love and for God,
then you had better go and work in the world
and suffer as the prodigal son suffered. Wake
up out of your dream. The resurrection time is
coming. The face must smile in the darkness
and the hands must be open to welcome all. There
is so much beauty to tell. So much to do. The
Masters will shower wisdom.
Take to your hearts what has been told
you. Your bodies will be remodeled, your hearts
changed, your minds renewed. The face shows
the thots. Why dwell in torture? Why not rise?
Beware how you judge. You may go down any
time. The earth is like a bubble. It may break.
So beware. The stars may come and the stars
may go, but the Father remains forever. If you
come not to the Light and the angel Gabriel shall
108
Transmitted Light
sound His voice, where will you be? Let the
Light of the evening star shine. Joy and peace
in the Temple of Service. Be sweet like a flower.
Like a bee take honey from the hand of God.
All is awaiting you if you choose the way of the
Father. The fowl of the air and the creeping
thing of the earth you shall bless and serve. Have
a heart of joy and play like children. Blessed be
all. Try to keep a quiet mind for, of course, we
cannot contact a disturbed mind. May love stay
forever.
109
HEALING
Early in the fall of 1933 I woke one
morning in violent convulsions. I had felt fairly
well on retiring the night before except for a
sense of having eaten something not good for me.
Having lived on a simple and little varied diet
for thirty years it was not difficult to recall the
things I had eaten during the previous twenty-
four hours. In turning my attention to food I
immediately became psychically aware of a bunch
of celery. I had eaten quite a quantity of celery
the evening before and had noticed that it tasted
very bitter. It is not uncommon to find an oc
casional stock like that so I thot little of it except
that I realized that it was unusually bitter.
The spasms of pain became so intense I
could not endure them. I was alone in the house
and no phone and was glad I was alone for that
gave me the opportunity to go straight to Head
quarters for help. I have always found quick
relief from suffering when free to go straight to
the Divine Source for healing. When surrounded
by friends and relatives who insist on doing
110
Transmitted Light
things, I usually grow steadily worse until they
get disgusted or discouraged and quit, then I
improve. I did not know the exact cause of this
attack, but the pain was so acute that it was be
yond human endurance. I rolled in agony on the
bed and cried out: "Lord, I cannot stand any
more, I have suffered all any human being can
endure."
Immediately I felt and saw myself sur
rounded by heavenly hosts. I became very warm
as if some one had wrapped me in an electric
blanket and then violent vomiting set in, lasting
perhaps a period of thirty minutes. Then I fell
back on the bed in the most exquisite sense of
perfect rest imaginable. All pain was gone.
There was perfect rest of body and peace of mind
and utter stillness of soul. Then greater vision
was given me.
I saw a pillar of light enter my body ex
tending the full length of the trunk and adding
to the warmth. Then this pillar expanded and
expanded until it pressed against the outer flesh
of my body and against the skin. At that in
stant profuse perspiration set in. More profuse
than any ever experienced in a Turkish bath. This
111
Transmitted Light
continued off and on for more than a day. I
saw streams of water spouting out from every
pore of my body and extending perhaps fourteen
inches all around me. Then I saw each cell of
my body as separate from every other cell. I felt
that pure water was being poured into my body
not thru the mouth but as if the body were split
open the full length like a trough and into this
was being poured bucketful after bucketful of
sparkling crystal water. This was then forced
thru and around every separate cell as water in
a stream flows and gurgles around small pebbles
in its path. It would swirl around a cell and then
flow out of the pores only to be replaced with
more and ever more fresh water. As this water
was forced out of my body it was at first muddy
and then became clear and finally was as spark
ling and pure as it was when first being poured
into the body. All the time I was filled with an
intense feeling of ecstacy and great joy. My
body felt light, clean, radiant. Never have I ex
perienced such a sense of cleanness. If you have
ever travelled for days across a hot desert and
finally arrived at a place where you could get a
full bath in soft, cool water, you may know some
112
Transmitted Light
thing of the joy and luxury of being bathed, but
that would only be a taste of what came to me
during that complete cleansing of every particle
of my entire body and the great benediction and
blessing that came with
it,
the soothing presence
of the Glorified Ones and unutterable peace.
I
could only exclaim over and over
:
"God,
I
thank
Thee for making me so clean."
It was discovered later that
I
had had ar
senic poisoning from sprayed celery from which
so many were dying and laterI was told that
I
would not have survived that attack had
I
not
had help from the Divine Ones. Truly the dem
onstration was instantaneous, powerful and com
plete.
This experience, which
is
only one of many
should be sufficient answer to the many people
who have asked
:
"What good does all your study
ing and faith do you?"
During the summer of 1933 in the early even
ing there was
a
knock at my door and on opening
I
found
a
young friend standing there, his face
deathly white and evidently almost unable to
stand. He could not even speak, he was so ill.
113
Transmitted Light
Sensing the condition as being very serious I
took hold of him and led him to a bed and made
him lie down. He lay absolutely motionless, his
eyes closed. Naturally I was alarmed. Not
knowing just what the condition was, I felt very
helpless and did not know what to do. Immedi
ately I felt Divine Presence in the room. I said :
"There is only one thing I can do and that is to
pray." So I lighted some incense and then sat
quitely down and turned within. After a period
of intense stillness the Voice spoke : "Look at the
incense, look at the incense." I did so and found
the whole cube afire. Usually, this type of in
cense burns very slowly just from one corner and
turns to ashes as it advances. But this time the
whole cube was glowing like a piece of burning
charcoal and a volume of smoke was rising
straight and high. I was elated and offered thanks
knowing that the prayer had been answered and
the work done. Then I looked and saw that the
color had come back to the cheeks of the patient
and he was smiling and in a very weak voice kept
repeating: "Oh, thanks, thanks." In a few mo
ments he arose, completely healed and strong and
light hearted.
114
LETTERS FROM LATOO
Thanks unto Krishna. Praises I have of
fered all day long. There is someone there who
seems attached to the ladder. They are impor
tant. Touch their hand. Thanks I give for Light.
Glory unto All in All. Krishna's arms extend
everywhere and therefore touch all things even tho
we are not conscious of such contact. Now and
then the warm glow of His touch penetrates the
heavy garments by which we have surrounded
ourselves.
The Lord dwelleth with thee. Sing, then,
His name. Thanks I give for Light. Glimpsed
ahead of the rocky path lies the smoother inviting
way of secluded beauty and development. I have
committed myself to service and I pray that every
thot, word and deed may be for the Glory of the
Lord. Amen.
115
Transmitted Light
Also must practicality and confidence be
practised here for this is the examination which
shall pass on into higher endeavors or doom to
another period of unsatisfied plodding. But with
the All-knowing as my goal can there be failure?
Strength I pray for to carry His word with joy
and singing. Thanks I give for Light. For the
glory of the Lord. Love and Praise unto Him in
All. The mind's unanswered questions pile
mountain high before it. The X-ray of the soul
(divine eye) perceiveth not mountains but the
throne cushion of its purpose only.
There were twelve in the Shining Circle.
Some of Them I can name. Baba, E , Agras-
ti,
Chakarara, Salentus, Celestor. None were as
bright as the Master —none so transparent.
Thanks
I
give for Light.
It
is
good to live
knowing the Lord. Bodies are not punishment —
they are the canvases of the Artist Lord. Behold
the Glory
!
Thanks
I
give for Light. Sweet melo
dies of Love
I
sing to glorify the Lord.
I
am glad
that you are enjoying the Lord's handiwork.
Marvelous indeed are the patterns which are
woven into the tapestries of life experience.
O
God,
I
pray, give me Strength and Love and
116
Transmitted Light
Peace enough for today. Glory unto Krishna
everywhere. Praises I act unto the Lord. Thanks
I give for Light. Praises I sing unto Krishna.
Offerings I bring unto the Lord. Let us thank
the Lord for the privilege of service. Krishna
smile upon thee.
These are becoming happy days in which to
live, for the Lord is always working in some unex
pected yet obvious way His plan to fulfill. Truly
the Light leads thru darkness. Peace be with
thee. During the night I had a wonderful ex
perience—found myself surrounded by those
whom we are learning to know, and was soon
relieved of my illness. Joy to the world. Krishna
bless thee. Praise the Lord for faith and patience.
That which looks dark becomes light as the dis
tance lessens. Good days and bad intermingle
even as the rain and sunshine alternate. In the
midst of the confusion and bustle the words of
praise ring over and over within this unit. The
Shining Face of the Lord would certainly blind
some of this world's children, but they even are
protected for unto none but those who are ready
is the Form ever disclosed. His Form —where
does that lead you? Songs, poems, pictures —all
117
Transmitted Light
His Form. His glorious blue Self. Supple and
radiant as the most beautiful maiden. Firm and
strong as the most perfect man. Sweet of voice.
Unclouded intelligence. Loving as a mother.
Stalwart as a soldier. Buoyant as a child. Pro
found as the mysteries of being. His Form —the
forms of men and beasts and plants and worlds.
0, Lord, I know Thee, yet I know Thee not.
Unveil my eyes.
Glory unto the Circle of Light. What
strength and Peace comes from contemplation
of that night on which the Master came. This
body trembles even now. Sweet as honey are the
kisses of my Lord. And His words are the blood
of my heart.
This work is progressing well and no longer
seems the burden —the cloak of certainty daily be
comes more protective and soon neither eyes,
ears nor mind shall perceive anything which has
no bearing upon the development of the Lord's
demonstration to mortal understanding. Sweet
unto the tired body is the realization of the near
ness and the accessibility of the Lord of Love
and many times thru the day these words come
rolling out: "O we praise Thee, Power Divine.
118
Transmitted Light
Everlasting Glory Thine. O, Life of all from star
to sod, Praise we Father, Mother, God."
Thanks I give for Light. For the glory of
the Lord do I labor. For the glory of the Lord
do I sing. Often the Shining Master seems to
come near. Do as you think best concerning
anything which has to do with those spiritual
containers of sustenance— (referring to the mes
sages, letters, etc.)
—for the Lord knoweth best
and whatsoever way He opens, let us follow with
out doubt or hesitation. If any words of praise
please Him sufficiently to use them as seed, then
has His love borne the seed for they are from
Him and of Him and for Him to do with as His
Divine and Universal Consciousness directs.
For thou art the loving child
Who adoreth the Mother GOD
And singeth praises unto Her
And encircleth Her image with garlands.
Thou knowest that the comfort of Her great
bosom
Is able to sustain thee
And that the strength of Her arms
Shall uphold thee.
119
Transmitted Light
Lift thyself, O my soul,
Into the cup of His loving hand.
Lift thyself by the ladder of thot and contem
plation.
Lift thyself, O my soul,
Into the cup of His loving hand.
The Divine message of strength soundeth
always beside the ear of him that is weak. Glory
unto the Lord—Krishna—All.
May all of Life know its Father and be
obedient unto Him. This is my prayer.
O, Father, kiss us with Thy fragrant breath
and accept the chattering of our mouths as child
ish confidence.
O Heavenly Father,
Thy name shakes the Universe.
The earth groans in ecstacy.
The green fields moan.
The tall trees whisper
And the winds hum—Thy Name.
My body becomes rigid
Until the warm glow of inner activity
120
Transmitted Light
Creeps slowly upward along the spine
And the mind soars, singing, singing, singing —
Thy Name.
0, Thou Soul of souls,
Thou which art myself and my brother together,
Yet appeareth as many,
Let not my heart, my mouth, my mind,
Do ought else but proclaim—Thy Name.
0, Lovers of God, let us uncover the lamps
of experience that light may penetrate into the
cracks of sorrow of this unstable structure of
mortal conception and disclose unto the dimmed
eyes the shining figure of the Lord standing
within their own uncared for temples.
How much greater might the accomplish
ments of man be, did he bend every effort to
praise and glorification of his Heavenly Father,
but no, he strives to set himself up as a king,
an unconquerable power, pretender to the throne,
which in purity is true, but in mortality is not
true. Hence the conflict which mind conceives
as the road to progress and illumination but
121
Transmitted Light
which Intelligence brands as the winding path
way of illusion and imprisonment.
Nations and individuals must come into a
realization of the true source of their power and
wealth and give some recognition and praise unto
this Source. They must learn not to say /, or even
we, but rather He Who is All. This entire nation
of which we are part is hardly the equivalent of
one drop of water in the ocean, when compared
with the magnitude of the universe of which we
are conscious —let alone that vastness of which
we are not conscious —and still we boast of our
strength, our wealth, our natural resources, and
our leadership, all the time knowing, however
much we may hate to admit
it,
that before we
could lift
a
finger that power which has brought
all here might also take us all away. What are
we then but fools when we fail to admit the self-
evident facts of life?
The sky has been curtained all day. The
wind has gradually gathered strength until
it
now
pounds at the house as tho to push
it
out of its
path. The ocean sings in
a
deep tone. Now and
then
a
few tear drops fall upon the quivering
plant forms. It
is
a
night of intense activity, sug
122
Transmitted Light
gesting the powerful beauty of God's strength
and the uncertainty of all that appears perma
nent, opening fields of contemplation which can
only lead to comprehension of the Divine Par
entage of all life, all activity. Perhaps that is
true of any line of contemplation if followed to
its finality —God, the beginning and the end.
Probably any research along any line compatible
with the natural or mortal understanding of
good, must finally bring the student to the Center.
It behooves us then, as teachers and way
pointers to encourage the use of the most easily
found and least hazardous pathway —Loving
Service. So striving to exemplify the teaching
we must first learn to serve, serve with joy, serve
with untiring spirit, serve with hand and mind
and heart. A great task, but a natural one for
the loving child who has discovered the wonder
of Life, that his Father and Mother is God.
123
Transmitted Light
A LETTER TO ONE HESITATING
ON THE THRESHOLD
May 2, 1935.
There are always the two forces in this
world of duality and the nearer one gets to the
White Light, the deeper the shadows and the
stronger are the opposing forces. You would
be so helpful in constructive White work that
the other side naturally is going to keep you
out of it if they can. I felt the work I offered
you would help make a wall of protection around
you. You go either upward or downward, either
forward or backward. If you refuse to go on
you will find yourself slipping backward. Also,
the higher one goes, the greater the fall if one
falls. But you do not want to sit in the valley
just because you are afraid you might fall if
you start to climb. Of course, if you once con
tact spiritual vibrations you will also contact
greater temptations than you ever had before.
That is why all these wild-cat schemes are com
124
Transmitted Light
ing to you. Get-rich-quick ideas. Take up with
them and you are in for kidnapping, murder,
robbery, injury, etc. If you get a firm foundation
on higher lines and seek the kingdom first all your
needs will be supplied and you will get eternal
life besides. And that does not mean eternal
life after you die, but eternal life NOW. When
Christ became illumined He was taken to the
top of a high mountain and severely tempted and
promised all the riches of the world if He would
turn back and serve the evil forces. Every Initi
ate goes thru that temptation. When he has
gained powers he is shown what glories he could
get for himself by using these powers for per
sonal gain. Right there is the dividing point. If
you go one way you enter the White Brother
hood. If you go the other way you enter the
black. This last part of the climb no one can
take alone. One must be high enough to hold the
angels by the hand. Human strength is too frail.
You say it is interesting to wonder why you
did not come to do the work offered you, but
that it might be more constructive to find out
why. This is no game, no interesting amuse
ment. This is a serious matter. In a group we
125
Transmitted Light
would need those who are spiritually based and
who can see the vision and who can contact the
planners directly and we also need those with
efficient training to do the mechanical part of
the work. You say you do not belong in a spirit
ual work because of your scientific training. That
is just why you are needed. Dr. Einstein says:
"Metaphysics and science are one." Can't you
believe Einstein? All work is spiritual if it is
done for the Lord, that
is,
constructive instead
of destructive. You say you want to help certain
people. How can you unless you stand on
a
sure
foundation? And evidently you are not sure of
yourself. You seem to think of spiritual work
as something mystical and unseen. There
is
nothing so practical as
a
spiritual foundation
from which to start your work. That simply
means Truth. As there are scientific research
workers, so there are research workers in the
realm of occultism and Truth generally. And
science and occultism must work together to be
complete. Truth
is
truth and the universe
is
a
universe, not
a
diverse or
a
multiverse.
It
is
a
unit. Get that firmly in your mind and look for
truth in all fields.
126
Transmitted Light
You say that certain propositions appealed
to you because of the idea of wholesome activity
which calls for wits and instinct to survive. So
does this work that we are doing. It requires all
the strength of character, physical strength, men
tal alertness, instinct and wits one can muster and
precisely in order to survive. It is sink or swim.
The other day I was talking rather emphatically
to a worker here. Then I told him I was not
angry at him or any one, but that I was making
a lot of noise because I was trying to keep my
head above water. A drowning man makes a lot
of fuss and splashes noisily. A good swimmer
does not. Believe me you would find plenty of
opportunity to fight here wholesomely. This is
no work for molly-coddles. This requires real
men and strong women.
We do not explore regions beyond this plane.
There is only one plane, one universe, and a
knowledge of that universe makes you efficient
wherever you are. Get rid of the idea of division.
Remember also that spiritualism is not spiritu
ality. There are many spiritualists who are
spiritual but the two words have different mean
ings. Spiritualists do make a division. Spiritu
127
Transmitted Light
ality permeates all phases of life. We are not
preparing for death. We are preparing for Life.
You speak of such things as sex worship and
nudism as being retrogressive. And you wonder
if your attitude on those things is wrong. I think
it is. I hope all people will attain to the under
standing where they will think of sex as some
thing sacred instead of desecrating it as they do.
God made man male and female. But the world
has misused and misunderstood sex. It is a
powerful force and should be used constructively,
to create. I am not talking of sexuality, but of
sex. I am not talking of generation, but of cre
ation. There is a vast difference.
As to nudism. We were born nude. And I
think there is something seriously wrong with
the person who cannot look upon the nude body
without licentious thots. To me a beautiful form
is divine and so it should be. I have studied art
in the nude. I have studied physical culture and
associated with physical culturists who went al
most nude all the time and never have I found
a purer mental attitude than amongst the latter.
It is very generally conceded that peoples who
wear the least clothing are the purest minded.
128
Transmitted Light
Also when one takes off one's clothes out of doors
for health's sake one merges immediately with
nature and the cosmos. There is nothing that
will bring out the consciousness of one-ness so
quickly as just that, that is if one is pure in their
intent. The vicious would, of course, remain
vicious. I am very much in favor of nudism and
if you would read some nudist literature you
would see that their first aim is purity of thot and
deed. A woman makes herself attractive to a
man by the use of suggestive clothes. Were she
entirely nude the appeal would soon vanish. If
we were forced by law to discard all clothes, in
a week's time all the novelty would be gone and
nothing would remain but the natural, normal,
inspiring, and exhilirating influence of associa
tion of the sexes in a healthful, constructive way.
The play of sex is going on all the time in nature,
only in plants and stars it is pure. Inform your
self on just what sex worship and nudism in their
highest phases mean. Before the Father one not
only may, but must stand nude, revealed not only
in body, but in mind and soul.
You say you are sorry you did not have the
honor of doing a certain work. Are you? Be
129
Transmitted Light
sincere with your own soul and see what you
really mean. Sincerity and honesty are the first
requisites. Also humility. If you would cease
thinking of it as an honor and think of it as a
privilege, you would gain something, for it is a
privilege, much greater than you can surmise.
An opportunity to align with the constructive
side of life gives one an opportunity to save one
self from destruction. The time has come for
the dividing of the peoples. And how hard the
Elder Brothers are working. If you knew how
They yearn to reach worthy souls and how glad
They are when They can. They work ceaselessly.
We sometimes have great souls amongst us
whom we do not recognize because they cannot
express what they are because of conditions.
Even the Christ could not manifest where there
was no faith. If you want to talk over a phone
you must have conditions prepared. Not only a
wire and a sending instrument, but also a re
ceiver. If you do not receive, it is not because it
has not been freely sent you. Abundantly it has
been given.
You have such a perverted idea of the ex
pression, "Spiritual influence." You constantly
130
Transmitted Light
think of it as spiritualism and dis- or ex-carnate
personalities. Forget that view. Spiritual means
seeing life from the universal, unlimited side,
rather than from the physical which is extremely
limited. What you see, feel, smell, taste, or hear,
is such a small part of the universe and these
things are effects or symptoms rather than causes.
Get over to the causal plane. As a scientist you
should want that. Take your logical, reasoning
mind with you. You have seen so little of the real
universe. And know so little of LIFE. You
glory in the fact that you are a research engineer.
Take your researching on farther. There are so
many avenues. "Get knowledge, but with all thy
getting, get understanding." Why do you laugh at
the word "Master?" Did you not have a school
master ? A music master, etc. ? Why not Masters
in other fields? Masters are merely our elder
Brothers. The One who probably urged me to
write to you is living in India and can communi
cate with me as you would use a phone. Is the
wireless any less miraculous than mental telepa
thy? You must remember that telepathy is being
generally accepted now. Why should not those
who have used it for many years become profici
131
Transmitted Light
ent in it? There is nothing mysterious in it. Just
as reasonable as wireless or radio. And just as
scientific.
It is a mother's place to be patient and toler
ant with a wayward child and neither God nor
His workers ask for pay except the joy of seeing
a truant child come home. A mother's arms are
always open to let her children go out into the
world for experience and her arms must always
be open when the truant wants to come home.
They are trying very hard to reach you and make
you understand. You are not honored. You are
privileged. A certain young man who had studied
in the Orient was begged by the Order to take the
yellow robe. He considered it a badge of honor
and being humble, refused, as he thot, the glory
of it. Later it was pointed out to him that they
had urged it probably not as an honor, but as a
protection to him. When you fully accept the
Father then you will be honored. The prodigal
son is honored only when he comes home. Jesus
was glorified because He first glorified the Father.
Peace, Amen, Om.
132
