{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__heindel___nature_spirits_and_nature_forces.pdf","mytitle":"Nature Spirits And Nature Forces","mylang":"de"}
NATURE SPIRITS
and
NATURE FORCES
By MAX HEINDEL
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
Oceanside, California, U.S.A.
--------------------f.r
Nature Spirits and Nature Forces
By
MAX HEINDEL
Foreword by
AuausTA Foss HEINDEI,
Second Printing
October, 1937
Published by
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
INTERN,\ TIONAL IIEADQUARTER3
l\lb'. ECCLESIA
OCEAN SIDE, CALIFORNIA, U.S.A.
~-; ------------------·---
COPYRIGHT, 1937
BY
THE ·ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
Printed in the United States of America.
THIS volume contains mystical writing:; of Max
Heindel on the little understood subject of Nature
Spirits and Nature Forces. It is a correlation from
his many books, lovingly collected in one volume by
one of Max H eindel 's students.
Max Heindel is known as the most advanced of
\Vestern Mystics and has in his numerous book,S given
to the world a mine of information about nature
spirits, the little people with whom he had such inter-·
esting experiences. The writer has listened to many
stories (which unfortunately have not been put in
writing) of his experiences with these spirits, of how
they live and their appearance. He had many times re-
marked that he would sometime write an entire book on
the Nature Spirits, but his very arduous work of
pioneering interfered with this much needed work.
However, from time to time he gave out information in
his writings which has now been correlated and we
are thus able to give it to the world in a condensed
volume. In the fift);-four years in which he was per-
mitted to occupy his physical vehicle, he gave to the
world a number of most valuable books. 'l'he wonder
book, The Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception, has been
(iii)
translated into many languages, and has reached its
fifteenth edition. 'l'his is only one of a number of books
, which he left for the world to gain knowledge from and
to enjoy. His astrological books are creditd as being
the most comprehensive textbooks on the market. His
simple and clear manner in imparting knowledge is his
greatest charm.
April the fifteenth
Nineteen himdred
and thirty-seven.
AuousTA Foss HEINDEL.
(iv)
CONTENTS
Foreword by Augusta Foss Heindel iii
Chapter One
The Ethers and Laws of Nature . . _ 7
Chapter Two
Heaven World Activity and Nature Forces 11
Chapter Three
The Mission of Christ and the Festival of the
Fairies
Chapter Four
Forces of Different Periods
Chapter Five
The Earth Spirit . . . .
Chapter Six
Two Questions and Answers
Chapter Seven
16
21
26
29
The Constitution of the Earth: and Volcanic
Eruptions . . . . . . . . . . . 35
(v)
Nature Spirits and Nature Forces
CHAPTER ONE
THE ETHERS AND LAws OF NA'ruHE
0 speak of ether as an avenue of forces con-
veys no meaning to the average mind, because
l!d~b!J force is invisible. But to an occult investigator
the forces are not merely nani.es such as steam, elec-
tricity, etc. He finds them to be intelligent beings of
varying grades, both sub- and superhuman. What
we call ''laws of nature'' are great intelligences which
guide more elemental beings in accordance with certain
rules .designed to further their evolution..
Xn the Middle Ages, when many people were still
end.owed with a remnant of negative·clairvoyance, they
spoke of gnomes and elves or fairies, which roamed
about the mountains and forests. These were the earth.
spirits. They also told of the undines or wate1~sprites,
which inhabited rivers and streams, of sylphs which
were said to dwell in the mists above moat and moor as
air spirits, but not much was said of the salamanders,
as they are fire spirits, and therefore not so easily
detected, nor so readily accessible to the majority of
people.
-7-
8 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES 9
To arrive at a better understanding of what these
various beings are, and their relation to us, we may
take an illustration: Let us suppose that a mechanic
is making an engine, and meanwhile a dog is watching
him. It sees the man at his labor, and how he uses
various tools to shape his materials, also how, from the
crude iron, steel, brass, and other metal:; the engine
slowly takes shape. The dog is a being from a lower
evolution and does not comprehend the purpose of the
mechanic but it sees the workman, his labor, and the
result thereof, \vhich manifests as an engine.
Let us suppose fnrther that the dog were able to see
only the materials which slowly change their shape,
assemble, and become an engine but that it is unable to
perceive the workman and to see the w01;k he does. The
dog would then be in the same relation to the mechanic
as we are to the great intelligences we call laws of
nature, and their assistants, the nature spirits, for we
behold the manifestations of their work as force mov-
ing matter in various ways but always under immutable
conditions.
In the ether we may also observe the angels, whose
densest body is made of that material, as our dense
body is formed of gases, liquids, and solids. These
beings are one step beyonJ the humau stage, as we are
a degree in advance of the animal evolution. We have
never been animals like our present fmma, however,
but at a previous stage iu the development of our
planet we had an a11imal-like constitution. 'l'hcn the
angels were human, though they have never possessed
a dense body such as ours, nor ever functioned in
10 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
any material denser than ether. At some time, in a
future condition, the earth will again become ethereal.
Then man will be like the angels. Therefore the Bible
tells us that man was made a little while lower than
the angels. (Hebrews 2 :17. See marginal reading.)
As ether is the avenue of vital, creative forces, and
as angels are such expert builders of ether, we may
readily understand 1.hat they are eminently fitted to
be warders of the propagative forces in plan,t, animal,
and man. All through the Bible we find them thus
engaged : Two angels came to Abraham and announced
the birth of Isaac. They promised a child tu the man
who had obeyed God. Later these same angels de-
stroyed Sodom for abiise of the creative [Orce. Angels
foretold to the parents of Samuel and Samson, the birth
of these giants of brain and brawn. To Elizabeth came
the angel (not archangel) Gabriel, and announced
the birth of John; later he appeared also to Mary with
the message that <she was chosen to bear Jesus.
CHAPTER TWO
HEAVEN WORLD AcTIVI'I'Y .A.ND N.aTURE FoRCES
E are wont to speak of evolution, but do we
ever analyze what it is that makes evolution,
why it does not stop in stagnation? If we
do, we must realize that there are forces back of the
visible which make the alteration in the flora and
fauna, the climatic and topographical changes which
are constantly going on; and it is then but a natural
question, what or who are the forces or agents in
evolution?
Of course, we are well aware that scientists give
certain mechanical explanations. They deserve great
credit; they have accomplished much when we take
into consideration that science is but an infant and has
only five senses and ingenious instruments at its com-
mand. · Its deductions are marvelously true, but that
does not say that there may not be underlying causes
which it cannot, as yet, perceive, but which give a more
thorough understanding of the matter than the mere
mechanical explanation affords. An illustration will
elucidate the point.
·Two men are conversing, when suddenly one knocks
the other down. There we have an occurrence, a fact,
and we may explain it in a mechanical way by saying:
"I saw one man contract the muscles of his arm, direct
- 11-
12 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
a blow at the other, and knock him down.'' That is a
true version, so far as it goes, but the occult scientist
would see also the &ngry thought which inspired the
blow, and would be giving a more complete version if he
said that the man was knocked down by a thought; for
the e.lenched fist was but the irresponsible instrument of
. aggression. Failing the impelling force of the angry
thought, the hand would have remained inert and the
blow would never have been struck.
Thus occult science refers all causes to the Re-
gion of Concrete Thought, and tells how they are gen-
erated there by human and superhuman spirits.
Remembering· that the creative archetypes of every-
thing we see in the visible world are in the World of
Thought, which is the realm of tone, we are prepared
to understand that the archetypal forces are con-
stantly playing through these archetypes which then
emit a certain tone, or, where a number of them have
massed to create a species of plant, animal, or human
forms, the different sounds blend into one grand chord.
That single tone or chord, as the case may be, is then
the keynote of the form thus created, and as long as it
sounds, the form oi· the species endures; when it ceases
the single form dies or the species dies out.
A jumble of sound is not music any more than words
massed together haphazard are a sentence. But orderly
rhythmic sonnd is the builder of all that is, as John
says in the first verses of his gospel, ''In the beginning
was the Worcl, ... and without it was not anything
made'' ; also ''the \Vord was made flesh.''
NATURE RPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES 13
Thus we see that sound is the creator and sustainer
of all form, and in the Second Heaven the F.:go becomes
one with the natnre forces. With them he works upon
the archetypes of land and sea, on flora ~nd fauna, to
bring about the chi::nges which gradually alter the
appearance and condition of the earth and thus afford
a new environment, macle by himself, in which he may
reap new experience.
He is directed in this work by great 'reachers be-
longing to the Creative Hierarchies, which are called
angels, archangels, und other names, all nf whom are
God's ministers. They instruct him then consciously
in the divine art of creation, both as to the world and
the objects in it. They teach him how to bnild a form
for himself, giving him the so-called "nature spirits"
as helpers, and thus man is serving his apprenticeship
to become a Creator each time he goes to the Second
Heaven. There he builds the archetype of the form
which he later externalizes at birth.
There are four ethers, called chemical, life, light
and reflecting ethers, Forces work along the positive
and negative poles of the different ethers. The egos in
the Heaven Worlcl are part of those forces, and thus the
very people whom we call dead are the ones who build
our bodies and help us to live. We may also note. that no
one can hav:e a better dense body than he can build. If
one makes a mistake in his heaven world work, he finds
it out when he comef! to use such a defective body on
ear.th, and thereby learns to correct the fault the next
time he buildi; a,n 1:1.rchetype.
14 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
All the denizens of the Heaven World work upon
the models of the earth, all of which are in the Region
of Concrete Thought. They alter the physical fea-
tures of the earth, and bring about the gradual changes
which vary its appearance, so that on each return to
physical life a different environment has been pre-
pared, wherein new experiences may be gained.
Climate, flora, and fauna are altered by man under
the direction of higher Beings.
Thus the world is just what we ourselves, individually
and collectively, have made it; and it will be what we
make it. The occult scientist sees in everything that
happens a cause of a spiritual nature manifesting
itself, not omitting the prevalence and alarmingly
increasing frequency of seismic disturbances, which it
traces to the materialistic thought of modern science.
It is true that purely physical causes can bring about
such disturbances, hut is that the last word on the sub-
ject? Can we always get the full explanation by merely
recording what appears on the surface? Surely not!
The occultist says that if materialism had not been,
seismic disturbances would not have occurred.
Man's work in the Heaven World is not confined
solely to the alteration of the surface of the earth
which is to be the scene of his future struggles in the
subjugation of the Physical World. He is also ac-
tively engaged in learning how to build a body which
shall afford a better means of expression. It is man's
destiny to become a Creative Intelligence and he is
serving his apprenticeship all the time. During his
heaven life he is learning to build all kinds of bodies-
the human included.
NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES 15
Thus we see that man learns to build his vehicles in
the Heaven World, and to use them in the Physical
World. Nature provides all phases of experience in
such a marvelous manner and with such consummate
wisdom that as we learn to see deeper and deeper into
her secrets we are more and more impressed with our
own insignificance and with an ever growing reverence
for God, whose visible symbol nature is;
CHAPTER THREE
·Tirn ·MISSION OF CHRIST AND THE FES'rlVAL
OF THE FAIRIES
HENEVER we are confronted by one of
nature's mysteries which we are at a loss to
explain, we simply add a new name to our
vocabulary which we then 11Se in learned juggling to
hide our ignorance of the subject. Such arc the arnpere
which we use to measure the volume of the electric cur-
rent, the volt which we say indicates the strength of the
current, and the ohrn which we use to show what resist-
ance a given conductor offers to the passage of the cur-
rent. Thm: by much study of words and flgures, the
master minds of electrical science attempt to persuade
themselves and others that they have -fathomed the
mysteries of the elusive force which plays such an im-
portant part in the world 's work; but when all is said
and they are in a confidential mood, they admit that
the brightest lights of electrical science know but very
little more about it than the schoolboy who is just be-
ginning to experiment with his cells and batteries.
Similarly in the other sciences: Anatomists cannot
distinguish the canine from the human rmbryo for a
long time, and while the physiologist talks learnedly
about metabolism, he cannot escape the admission that
-16-
NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES 17
the laboratory tests whereby he endeavors to imitate
our digestive processes must be and are widely differ-
ent from the transmutations undergone in the chemical
laboratory of the body by the nourishment we take.
This is not said to disparage or belittle the wonderful
achievements of science, but to emphasize the fact that
there are factors behind all manifestations of nature-
intelligences of varying degrees of consciousness,
builders and destroyers, who perform important parts
in the economy of nature- and until these agencies are
recog·nized and their work studied, we can never have
an adequate conception of the way the nature forces
work, which we call heat, electricity, gravity, chemical
action, etc. To those who have cultivated the spiritual
sight, it is evident that the so-called dead spend part
of their time in learning to build bodies under the guid·
ance of certain spiritual Hierarchies. 'l'hey are the
agents in the metabolic and anabolic processes; they
are the unseen factors in assimilation, and it is there-
fore literally true that we should be unable to live save
for the important aid rendered to us by those whom
we call dead.
In relation to the nature forces we learneclly explain
how heat from the sun evapo1·ates the water of the
rivers and oceans, causing it to ascend to the cooler re-
gions of the air where it condenses to clouds which
finally become so satmated with moisture that they
gravitate towards the earth as rain to replenish the
rivers and oceans and be again evaporated. It is all per-
fectly simple, a nice automatic poqwtual motion
process. But is that all~ Are there not a number of holes
18 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
in this theory? We know that there are, though we can
not digress too far from our subject to djscuss them.
One thing is lacking to fully explain it, !!amely, the
semi-intelligent action of the sylphs who lift the finely
divided vaporized pnrticles of water prepared by the
undines, from the surface of the sea and carry them as
high as they may before partial condensation takes
place and clouds are formed. These pnrticles of
water they keep until forced by the undines to release
them. When we say it storms, battles are being fought
on the surface of the sea and in the air, s01uf'times with
the aid of salamanders to light the lightning torch of
separated hydrogen and oxygen and send its awe-
inspiring shaft crashing zigzag through the inky dark-
ness, followed by 'ponderous peals of 1.buncler that
reverberate in the clearing atmosphere, while the un-
dines triumphantly hurl the rescued raindrops to
earth that they may be again restored to union with
their mother element.
The little gnomes are needed to build the plants and
the flowers. It is their work to tint them with the
innumerable shades of eolor which delight our eyes.
They also cut the crystals in all the minerals and make
the priceless gems that gleam from golden diadems.
Without them there would be no iron for our ma-
chinery nor gold wherewith to pay for it. They are
everywhere and the proverbial bee is not busier. To
the )Jee, however, is given credit for the ·work it does,
while the little nature spirits that play such an im-
mensely important part in the world's work are
unknown save to a few so-called dreamers.
NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES 19
At the summer solstice the physical activities of.
nature are at their apex or zenith. Therefore "Mid-
summer Night" is the great festival of the fairies who
have wrought to build the material universe, nourished
the cattle, nurtured the grain, and are hailing with
joy and thanksgiving the crest wave of force which is
their tool in shaping the flowers into the astonishing
variety of delicate shapes called for by their arche-
types and in tinting them in unnumbered hues 11hicb
are the artist's delight and despair. On this gr oatesl
of all nights of the glad summer season they flock fron .
fen and forest, from glen and dale, to the Festival of
the Fairies. They really bake and brew their etheric
foods and afterwarrJ.s dance in ecstasies of joy, the joy
of having brought forth and served their important
purpose in the economy of nature.
It is an axiom of science that nature tolerates noth-
ing that is useless. Parasites and drones are an
abomination; the organ that has become superfluous
atrophies; so does the.limb or eye that is no longer
used. Nature has work to do and requires work of all
who would justify . their existence and continue as
part of her. This applies to plant and planet, man
and beast, and to the fairies as well. They have their
work to do ; they are busy folk and their hctivities are
the solution to many of nature's multifarious mysteries,
as already explained.
Later, at the time of the winter solstice, we are at
the other pole of the yearly cycle where the clays are
short and the nights long; physically speg,king, dark-
ness hangs over the Northern Hemisphere; but the
20 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
wave of spiritual light and life which will be the basis
of next year's growth and progress is now at its great-
est height and power. On Christmas night at the winter
solstice when the ·celestial sign of the Immaculate
Virgin stands upon the eastern horizon at midnight,
the sun of the new year is born to save humanity from
the cold and the famine which would ensue were its
beneficent light withheld. At that time the Christ
Spirit is born into the earth and commences to leaven
and fertilize the millions of seeds which the fairies
build and water that we may have physical food. But,
"Man shall not live by bread alone." Important as
is the work of the fairies, it fades into insignificance
compared with the mission of Christ, who brings to us
each year the spiritual food needed to advance us upon
the path of progress, that we may attain perfection in
love with all which that implies.
CHAPTER FOUR
FORCES OF DIFFERENT PERIODS
r==~111 N the Moon Period, contact of the heated
sphere with cold Space generated moisture,
and the battle of the elements commenced in
all its :fierceness. 'I'he heated ball of :fire endeavored
to evaporate the moisture, force it outwards and create
a vacuum wherein to maintain its integrity and burn
undisturbed. But there is and can be no void in
nature, hence the outrushing steam condensed at a
certain distance from the heated ball and was again
driven inwards by the cold of Space, to be again evap"
orated and propelled outwards in a ceaseless round for
ages and ages, as a shuttlecock between the separate
Hierarchies of Spirits composing the various King-
doms of Life, represented in the Fire-Sphere and Cos-
mic Space which is an expression of the Homogeneous
Absolute Spirit. The Fire Spirits are actively striving
to attain enlargement of consciousness. But the Abso-
lute rests, ever clothed in the invisible garment of
'Cosmic Space. In "It" all powers and possibilities
are latent, and It seeks to discourage and check any
attempt at expenditure of latent power as dynamic
energy required in the evolution of a solar system.
Water is the agent It used to quench the fire of active
-21-
22 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
spirits. The zone between the heated center of the
separate Spirit Sphere, and the Point where its indi-
vidual atmosphere meets Cosmic Space, is a. battle-
ground of evolving spirits at various stages of
evolution.
The present angels were human in the Moon Period,
md the highest Initiate is The Holy Spirit (Jehovah).
As our humanity and the other Kingdoms of Life on
earth are variously affected by the present tlements, so
that some like heat, others prefer cold; some thrive on
moisture and others require dryness; so also in the
Moon Period among the angels, some had affinity for
water, others abhorred it and loved the fire.
• • • • • • • • • • * *
From the Cosmic angle or viewpoint we note
that Solomon's Temple is the Solar Universe, and
Hiram Abiff, the Grand Master, is the Sun which
travels around the twelve signs of the zodiac, enacting
there the mystic drama of the Masonic Legend. At the
Vernal Equinox the Sun leaves the watery sign Pisces,
which is also feminine and docile, for the belligerent,
martial, energetic, fiery sign Aries, the !'am or lamb,
where it is exalted in power. It :fills the universe with
a creative fire which is immediately seized upon by the
innumerable billions of nature spirits who therewith
build the Temple of the coming year in forest and fen.
'fhe forces of fecundation applied to the countless seeds
slumbering in the ground cause them to germinate and
~li tile earth with iuxuriant vegetation while the group
NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES 23
spirits mate the beasts and birds in their charge so that
they may bring forth and increase sufficiently to keep
the fauna of our planet at normal.
* * * * * * * * *
The Objective Conscioitsness by which we obtain
knowledge of the outside world is dependent upon
what we perceive through the medium of the senses.
This we call ''real,'' in contradistinction to our
thoughts and ideas which come to us through our inner
consciousness; their reality is not apparent to us in ·
the same way as that of a book or table, or other
visible or tangible object in space. Thoughts and ideas
seem misty and imreal, therefore we speak of a'' mere''
thought, or of "just" an idea.
The ideas and thoughts of today, however, have an
evolution before them; they are destined to become as
real, clear, and tangible as any of the objects of the
outside world which we now perceive through the phys-
ical senses. At present, when a thing or a color is
.thought of, the picture or color presented by the mem-
ory to our inner consciousness is but a dim and
shadowy one compared with the thing thocight of.
As early as the Jupiter Period there will be a marked
change in this respect. Then the dream-pictures of the
Moon Period will return, but they will be subj.ect to
the call of the thinker, and not mere reproductions of
outer objects. 'l'hus there will be a combination of the
pictures of the Moon Period and the th0ughts and
ideas consciously developed during the Earth Period,
that is, it will be a self-conscious picture-consciousness.
24 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
When a man of the Jupiter Period says "red,'' or
speaks the name of an object, a clear and exact repro-
duction of the particular shade of red of which he· is
thinking, or of the object to which he refors, will be
presented to his inner vision and will aJso be quite
visible to the hearer. There will be no misconception
as to what is meant by the words spoken. Thoughts and
ideas will be alive and visible, therefore hypocrisy and
flattery will be entirely eliminated. People will be
·seen exactly as they are. There will be thP. thoroughly
good man and the downright evil man, aud one of the
serious problems of that time will be how to deal
with the latter. The Manichees, an.Order of still higher
spirituality than the Rosicrucians, are at present
studying that very problem. An idea of the condition
anticipated may be gained from a short resume of their
legend. (All mystic orders have a legend symbolical
of their ideals and aspirations.)
In the legend of the Manichees there aL"e two king-
doms, that of the Light Elves and that of the Night
Elves. The latter attack the former, are defeated and
must be punished. But, as the Light Elves are as
thoroughly good as the Night Elves are bad, they can-
not inflict evil upon their foes, so they mu,st be pitn-
.ished with Goocl. Therefore a part of the kingdom of
the Light Elves is incorporated with that of the Night
Elves and in this way the evil is in time overcome.
Hate which will not submit to hate must succumb to
Love.
The internal pictures of the Moon Period were a
certain expression of man's external.environment. In
NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES 25
the Jupiter Period the pictures will be expressed from
within; they will be an outcome of the inner life of the
man. He will also possess the additional faculty, which
he cultivated in the Earth Period, of seeing things in
space outside of himself. In the Moon Period he did
not see the concrete thing, but only its soul qualities.
In the Jupiter Period he will see both, and will thus
have a thorough perception and understanding of his
surroundings. At a later stage in the same Period this
perceptive ability will be succeeded by a still higher
phase. His power to form clear mental conceptions of
colors, objects, or tones will enable him to contact and
influence supersensuous beings of various orders and
to secure their obedience, employing their for\es as he
wishes. He will be unable to send out from~ · self
the forces wherewith to carry out his designs, however,
and will be dependent upon the help of these supe -
physical beings, who will then be at his service.
At the close of the Venus Period he will be able to
use his own force to give his pictures life and to set
them out from himself as objects in space. He will
then possess an objective, self-conscious, creative-con-
sciousness.
CHAPTER FIVE
THE EAR'.rH SPIRIT
fl
OST of us walk about upon earth and see only
a seemingly dead mass, but one of the first
facts revealed in our eonsciousncss by Initia-
tion is the living rea1ity of the Earth Spirit. As the
surface of the body is dead compared to the organs
within, so the outer envelope of the earth, being en-
crusted 1 ives no idea of the wonderful activity within.
Upo 'i:'Pe path of Initiation nine different layers are
re-y ;a.led, and in the center of this rolling sphere we
~t the Spirit of the Earth face to face. It is actually
"rue that it is ''groaning and travailing'' in the earth
for the sake of all, working and anxiously waiting for
our manifestation as Sons of God so that, as the seek-
ing soul, which aspires to liberation is released from
its dense body, the Earth Spirit also may bP liberated
from its body of death in which it is now confined
for us.
Of course, the Earth Spirit is not to be thought of as
a larger man, or as having physical form other than
the earth itself. The vital body of Jesus, in which the
Christ Spirit was focused prior to its aetual ingress
into the earth, has the ordinary human form; it is pre-
served and is shown to the candidate at a certain point
in his progression. Some day in the far future it will
-26-
NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES. 27
again house the benevolent Christ Spirit upon His re-
turn from the center of the earth, when we shall have
become etheric, and when He is ready to ascend to
higher spheres, leaving us to be taught of the Father,
whose religion will be higher than the Christian
religion.
The Faust myth presents a curious situation in the
m.')eting of the hero, who is the seeking soul, with dif-
ferent classes of spirits. The spirit of Faust, inherently
good, feels drawn to the higher orders; it feels akin to
the benevolent Earth Spirit, and bem0ans the in-
ability to detain it and learn from it. Face to face
with the Spirit of Negation, who is only too willing to
teach and to serve, he :finds himself master in a cer-
tain sense, because that spirit cannot leave over the
symbol of the five-pointed star in the position it is
placed upon the floor. But both his inability to detain
the Earth Spirit and obtain tuition from that exalted
Being, and his mastery over the Spirit of Negation, are
due to the fact that he has come into contact with them
by chance and not by soul power evolved from within.
When Parsifal, the hero of another of these great
soul myths, :first vi::;ited the Castle of the Grail, he was
asked how he had come there, and he answerc:d ''I lmow
not.'' He had just happened to enter the holy place as a
soul sometimes gets a glimpse of: the celestial realms in
a vision; but he could not stay in Montsalvat. He
was forced to go 011t into the world agai":.i and learn
bis lessons. Many years later he returned Lo the Castle
of the Grail, weary and worn with the quest, and the
28 · NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
same query was asked: ''How did you come here?''
But this time his answer was different, for he said,
''Through search and suffering I came.''
That is the cardi11al point which marks the great
difference between persons who happen to come in con-
tact with spirits from superpbysical realms by chance
or stumble upon the solution of a law of nature, and
those who, by diligent research and particularly by
living the Zife, attain to conscious Initiation into the
secrets of nature. The former do not know how to use
this power intelligently and are therefore helpless. The
latter are always masters of the forces they wield,
while the others are the sport of anyone who wishes to
take advantage of them.
CHAPTER SIX
Two QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
STUDENT asks: ''Is not nature gnilty of fre-
quent physical malformations in the plant and
animal world as well as in the human race,
and can there be a perfectly whole and sane intelli-
gence with a forceful will in a diseased or malformed
body?"
In reply we would ask, what is here meant by
nature? Bacon says that nature and God differ only
as the print and the seal. Nature is the visible symbol
of God, and we are too apt to think of nature nowadays
in a materialistic sense. Back of every manifestation
in nature there are forces, not blind forces, btd intelli-
gences which motivate action. What we speak of as
electricity, as magnetism, as expansion in steam, etc.,
are intelligences which work unseen to 1Js when cer-
tain conditions are brought about. Nature spirits
build the plants, form the crystals of i;he rock, and
with numerous other hierarchies are working around
and about us unseen, but nevertheless busy in making
that which we call nature.
These are all evolving beings, like ourselves, and the
very fact that they are evolving shows that they are
imperfect and therefore apt to make mistakes which
~29~ •
•
30 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
naturally result in malformations, so that it may be
said in answer to the question that the invisible intelli-
gences which make what we call nature are guilty of
frequent mistakes as well as we.
As to the second pnrt of the question, wl1ether there
can be a perfectly whole and sane intelligence with a
forceful will in a diseased or malformed body, we may
say ''Yes, undoubtedly,'' but as the expression of that
intelligence is dependent upon the efficiency of its in-
strument, it may, naturally, be hampered by the
physical deformity, on the same principle that no mat-
ter how skilled the workman is, his efficiency depends
in a great measure upon the condition of his tools.
The following interesting enquiry is worthy of at-
tention: "It is stated in the Cosino-Conccption that
the faculty of space perception is connected with the
delicate adjustment of the three semicircular canals in
the ear, pointing in the three dimensions of space.
Logical thought and mathematical ability are in pro-
portion to the accuracy of their adjustment.
"It seems that the perception of the fourth dimen-
sion has been arrived at by mathematicians of a very
high degree. Can yon tell me if there is any change in
the arrangement of these semicircular canals, or what
is the process that lPads up to the fourth dimensional
consciousness~
''It would also seem that nature spirits and ele-
mentals have this fourth dimensional consciousness
which is a higher degree of consciousness than that
which we now possess and possibly highee than pos-
sessed by the bee or the Elberfeld horses. Will you
NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES 31
please Hupply the missing link1 What makes man or
humanity superior tu these beings and what is the
arrangement of these semicircular canals in the case of
these gifted horses 1''
To the majority of mankind figures arc exceedingly
dry. They are not only uninteresting, but exceedingly
tedious, for we ara used to living an uutward life
among other people and friern;ls where we give expres-
sion to our desires, feelings, and emotions. The more
these are stirred the more interesting W () f.nd life and
contrariwise the things that do not·cause a ripple of
emotion are held to be dull and uninteresting. There-
fore the majority do not take to mathematics or any-
thing else that will sharpen the mind without at the
same time arousing the emotional nature.
We know that God geometrizes, that all the proc-
esses of nature are founded upon a systematic calcula-
tion which argues the great Master Mind. When God
as the great .Architect of the universe has built the
whole world upon mathematical lines we may know
that consciously or unconsciously the mathematician
is reaching out in a direction in which eventually he
will find himself face to face with Goel and this in
itself argues an expansion of consciousness. When
we consider the fact that each one of the semicircular
canals is in fact a supersensitive spirit-level adjusted
so as to indicate to our consciousness the motion of
our body through the length and breadth, height or
depth of space we may easily understand that their
accurate adjustment is necessary to space perception.
32 NATURE Sf'JRITS AND NATURE FORCES
Ifthey are true, then the space perception of that per-
son is perfect, and if he takes up the study of mathe-
matics then his the0ries will agree with what he sees
in the world as actual facts. This in some high minds
engenders an actual love of figures so that they may
rest such a mind instead of being a source of fatigue
as they are to most people, and then that love of figures
may arouse in him the latent spiritual faculties, but
not through any change in the semicircular canals for
these are bony structures and not easily changed dur-
ing the lifetime. There is no doubt, however, that one
who has a taste for music or mathematics will later
build these canals more accurately in the Second
Heaven between death and a new birth.
With respect to the consciousness of the elernentals
01· nat'ttre spirits, it is quite correct to assume that they
have what may be called a fourth dimcm,ional con-
sciousness, for in addition to the height, width, and
depth which are the dimensions of space in the physical
world, there is what we may call "throughness" in
the ethers. With the etheric sight you may look into
a mountain and if you have an etheric body such as the
nature spirits possess, you may also walk through the
hc:.rdest granite rock. It will offer no more obstruction
than the air does to our progress here, in fact, not so
much, for here we are hindered by winrls. But even
among nature spirits there are different entities and a
corresponding variation of consciousness.
'rlie bodies of the gnomes are made of the chemical
ether principally and therefore they are of the earth
earthy; that is, one never sees them fly about as do the
NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES 33
sylphs. They can be burned in fire. Th~y also grow
old in a manner not so greatly different from human
beings;
. The tmdines which live in the water and the sylphs
of the air are also Sl"ibject to mortality, but their bodies
being composed of the life and light ethers respectively,
make them much more enduring, so that while it is
stated that the gnomes do not live more than a few
hundred years, the <mdines and sylphs are said to live
for thousands, and the salamanders whose bodies are
principally built of the fourth ether are said to live
many thousands of years. The conscioitsness which
builds and ensouls these bodies, however, belongs to a
number of divine hierarchs who are gaining additional
experience in that manner; and the fonns which are
built of matter and thus ensouled have attained a de-
gree of self-consciousne,<;s; during these long exist-
ences they have a sense of their own transitory.existence
and it is to their rebellion against this <;tate of things
that the war of the elements, notably, fire, air, and
water, is due. Fancying that they are being )leld in
bondage they seek liberation from the leash by force
and having no sense to guide themselves, run amuck
in a destructive manner which at times brings about
great catastrophes. The consciousness of the gnomes
is too dull to take the initiative but they not infre-
quently become accomplices of the other nature spirits
by opening pass.ages which favor explosions in the
rock.
However, this has no connection at all with the
Elberfeld horses or kindred animal prodigies. These
34 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
are the wards of their respective group spirits and it
is probably the last time they will seek embodiment in
an animal form. When that happens, such spirits are
relegated to Chaos \¥here they must wait during the
Cosmic Night for thdr less gifted brother.:o until the
time when it is possible to begin their human evolution
in the Jupiter Period.
CHAPTER SEVEN
THE CONSTITU'l'ION OF THE EARTH: AND VOLCANIC
ERUPTIONS
VEN among occult scientists it is counted
among the most difficult problems to investi-
gate the mysterious construction o.f the earth.
Every occult scientist knows how much easier it is to
thoroughly and accurately investigate the Desire
World and the Region of Concrete Thought and bring
back the results into the Physical World than to inves-
tigate completely the secrets of our physical planet,
because to do that fully, one must have passed through
the nine lesser Mysteries and the first of the Great
Initiations.
Modern scientists know very little about this mat-
ter. So far as seismic phenomena are concerned they
very frequently change their theories, because they
are constantly discovering reasons why their previous
hypotheses were untenable. They have, with all their
usual splendid care, investigated the very outside
shell, but only to an insignificant depth. As for vol-
canic eruptions, they try to understand them as they
try to understand everything else, in a purely me-
chanical way, depicting the center of the earth as a
fiery furnace and concluding that the eruptions are
caused by the accidental admission of water and · in
other similar ways.
-35-
36 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
In a certain sense, their theories have some founda-
tion, but in this case they are, as always, neglecting the
spiritual causes, wbieh to the occultist appear to be the .
true ones. To him, the world is far from being ''dead.''
On the contrary, its every nook and crevice is per-
meated by spirit, which is the leaven that causes
changes in and upon the planet.
The different kinds of quartz, the metals, the dis-
position of the various strata-all have a much higher
significance than the materialistic investigator has
ever been ·able to grasp. 'l'o the occult sr.ientist, the
way in which these materials are arranged is full of
meaning.
To the trained clairvoyant sight of the Initiate of
the various degrees of the Mysteries, the earth appears
built in strata, something like an onion, one layer or
stratum outside another. There are nine such strata
and the central core, making ten in all. 'rhese strata
are revealed to the Initiate gradually. One stratum
becomes accessible to him at each Initiation, so that at
the end of the nine lesser Initiations he is master of all
the layers, but has not yet access to the secrets of the
core.
In ancient parlance these nine steps are called the
''Lesser Mysteries.'' They take the neophyte con-
sciously through all that relates to his past evolution,
through the activities of involuntary existence, so that
he is able to understand the manner and meaning of
the work he then performed unconsciously. He is
shown how the present ninefold constitution (the
threefold body, the threefold soul, and the threefold
NATURE SFIRITS AND NATURE FORCES 37
spirit) was brought into existence; how the great
creative Hierarchies worked on the virgin spirit, awa~­
ening in it the Ego, helping it to form tha body; a:rid
also the work he himself has done, to extract from the
threefold body as much of the threefold soul as he nqw
possesses. One step at a time is he led through the
nine steps of the lesser mysteries, the nine strata.
-when the advancing man has passed through the
nine lesser Initiations, gaining thereby entrance to all
the layers of the earth, entrance into the r,ore is yet to
be won. That is opened to him by the first C•f the Four
Great Initiations, in which he learns to know the mys-
tery of the mind, that part of his being begun on earth.
When he is ready for the first Great Initiation he has
developed his mind to the degree to which all men are
destined to <i.ttain at the end of the Earth Period. In
that Initiation he is given the key to the next stage,
and all work done by him after that wi.11 be such ,as
humanity in general will do in the Jupiter Period,
and does not concern us at present. '
Diagram 18 will give an idea of the arrangement of
the earth's strata, the central core being omitted to
indicate more clearly the lemniscate formation of the
currents in the ninth stratum. In the diagram the
strata are represented as being of eqnal thickness,
though in reality some are much thinner than others.
Beginning at the outside, they appear in the following
order:
(1) The Mineral Earth: This is the stony crust of
the earth, with which geology deals ·as far as it is able
to penetrate.
38 NATURE SPIRITS AND N ATl•RE FORCE8
.CON~TlTUTIOli OF THE. E1\fiTH
\ I
I '
,
---------------- ------ ---
Diagram 18, shown above, is reproduced froni " The
Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception,'' by Mcix H eindel.
NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCE!-3 39
(2) The Fluid Stratum: The matter of this stratum
is more fluid than that of the outside crm:t, yet it is
not watery, but rather more like a thick paste. It pas
the quality of expansion, like that of an exceedingly
explosive gas, and is kept in place only by the enormous
pressure of the outer crust. Were that removed, the
whole of the fluid stratum would disappear in space
with a tremendous explosion. These correspond to the
Chemical and Etheric Regions of the Physical World.
(3) Vapor Stratum: In the first and second strata
there is really no conscious life. But in this stratum
there is an ever flowing and pulsating life, as in the
Desire World surrounding and interpenetrating our
earth.
(4) Water Stratum: In this stratum are the ger-
minal possibilities of all that exists upon the surface of
the earth. Here are the archetypal forces which are
back of the group spirits; also the archetypal forces of
the minerals, for this is the direct physical expression
of the Region of Concrete Thought.
(5) Seed Stratum: Material scientists have been
baffled in their efforts to discover the origin of life, how
the first living things came forth from previously dead
matter.
In reality, according to the occult explanation of
evolution, the question should be how the ''dead''
things originated. The Life was there previous to the
dead Forms. It built its bodies from attenuated
vaporous substance long before it conden8ed into the
earth's solid crust. Only when the life had left the
forms coiild they crystallize and bec01ne hm·d and dead.
40 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
Coal is but crystallized plant bodies; coral is also
the crystallization of animal forms. The life leaves the
forms and the forrns die. Life never came into a form
to awaken it to life. Life departed from the forms and
the forms died. Thus did ''dead'' things come to be.
In this fifth stratum is the primordial fount of life
from which came the impetus that built all the forms
on earth. It corresponds to the Region of Abstract
Thought.
(6) Fiery Stratum: Strange as it may seem, this
stratum is possessed of sensation. Pleasure and pain,
sympathy and antipathy have here their effect on the
earth. It is generally supposed that under no possible
circumstances can the earth have any sensation what-
ever. The occult scientist, however, as he watches the
harvesting of the ripe grain and the gathering of fruit
from the trees in th'3 autumn, or the plucking of flow-
ers, knows the pleasure experienced by the earth itself.
It is similar to the pleasure felt by the cow when its
bursting udders are being relieved by the sucking calf.
The earth feels the delight of having yielded nourish-
ment for its progeny of Forms, this delight reaching
its culmination in the harvest time.
On the other hand, when plants are torn out by the
roots, it is patent to the occult scientist that the earth
senses a ::;ting of pain. · For that reason he Joes not eat
the plant-foods which grow under the earth. In the
first place they are foll o:E the earth force and deficient
in sun force, and are additionally poisoned by being
pulled up by the roots. 'l'he only exception to this
rule is that he may partake sparingly of the potato,
NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES 41
which .originally grew on the surface of the earth, and
has only in comparatively recent times grown beneath
the soil. Occultists endeavor to nourish their bodies on
fruits which grow toward the sun, because they con-
tain more of the higher sun force, and have not cause.cl
the earth pain.
It might be suppcsed that mining operations would
be very painful to the earth, but the rtYerse is the
case. Every disintegration of the hard crust causes a
sensation of relief and every solidification is a source
of pain. Where a mountain torrent washes away the
soil and carries it toward the plains, the earth feels
freer. Where the disintegrated matter is again de-
posited, as in a bar outside the mouth of a great river,
there is a corresponding sense of uneasiness.
As sensation in animals and men is due to their
separate vital bodies, so the feeling of the earth is par-
ticularly active in this sixth stratum, which corre-
sponds to the World of Life Spirit. To understand
the pleasure felt when mining operations are disin-
tegrating the hard rock, and the pain when deposits
gather, we must remember that the earth is the dense
body of a Great Spirit, and to furnish us with an envi-
ronment in which we could live and gather experience,
it had to crystallize this body into its present solid
condition.
As evolution proceeds, however, and man learns the
lessons pertaining to this acme of concretion, then earth
will become softer and its Spirit more and more lib-
erated. This is what Paul meant when he spoke of
the whole creation groaning and travailing, waiting for
the day of liberation.
112 NATURE SPIRITS AND NATURE FORCES
;.: (7) · Refracting Stratum: This part of the earth
corresp'onds to the World of Divine Spirit. There are.
in occult science what are known as "The Seven Un-
speakable Secrets.'' For those who are not acquainted
with these secrets, or have not at least an inkling of
their import, the properties of this stratuin must seem
particulariy absurd and grotesque. In it all the forces
whicli are known to us as the "Laws of Nature" exist
as moral, or rather immoral forces. In the beginning
of the conscious career of man they were much worse
than at present. But it appears that as humanity pro-
gresses in morals, these forces improve correspond-
ingly·; also that any lapse in morals has a tendency to
unleash these Nature Forces and causes them to create
havoc upon the earth; while the striving for higher
ideiiis makes them less inimical to man.
The forces in this stratum are thus, at any time, an
exact reflection of the existing moral status of man-
kind. From the occult point of view, the "hand of
God'' which smites a Sodom or a Gomorrah is not a
foolish superstition, for as surely as there is individual
responsibility to the Law of Consequence which brings
to each person the just results of his deeds whether for
good or evil, so is there also community and national
responsibility, which brings upon groups of men corre-
sponding results for their collective acts: Nature
Forces are the general agents of such retributive jus-
tice, causing floods, or earthquakes, or the beneficent
formation of oil or coal for various groups, according
to their deserts.
(8) Atomistie Sfratum: This :is the name given by
the Rosicrucians to the eighth layer of the €arth, which
is the expression Of t~.he. World of Virgin Spirits. It
seems to have the property of multiplying many fold
the things in it; this applies, however, only to those
thiil&'s which have been definitely formed. Aii .~nsbApen
piece of wood, or an unhewn stone ' nail r.0·e'X'ffiteilce
there, but upon anything which has been shaped, or has
life and form (such as a flower or a picture)' this
stratum has the cffe~t of m'ultiplic'ation ,tO' ah~asfo1iish-
ii1g degi;ee. ' · ·
·' (9) Material Expression of the Earth Spirit: There
a;re here lemniscate currents, which are. intimateiy
connected with the brain, heart, and sex orga~s of the
lmman race. It corresponds to the World of God.
.(10) Center of Being of the Earth Spii·it : Nothing
more cari be said abcut this at present except that it
is the ultimate seed ground of all that is in and on
earth, ·and cori:esponds to the Absolute.
. •
'::. "i.:
. .
~. ·~··.: ·h ;·; _ ,~~~ _.
THE ROSICRUCIAN COSl\10-
CONCEPTION
BY MAX HEINDEL
Fifteenth Edition
This book gives a complete outline of the Western
Wisdom Teaching as far as it may be made public at
the present time. 'l'he Rosicrucian Brotherhood from
time to time gives out occult teachings to the public
in such a manner that their expression conforms to
the intellectual <levelopment of the times. This is the
latest of their communications. It contains a com-
prehensive outline of the evolutionary processes of
man and the universe, correlating science with re-
ligion.
Part I is a treatise on the Visible and the Invisible
Worlds, Man and the Method of Evolution, Rebirth
and the Law of Cause and Effect.
Part II takes up the scheme of Evolution in general
and the Evolution of the Solar System and the Earth
in particular.
Part III treats of Christ and His Mission, Future
Development of Man and Initiation, Esoteric Train-
ing and a Safe Method of Acquiring Firsthand
Knowledge.
702 Pages Cloth Bound $2.00 Postpaid
I' - ·
Paper Bound, 75 Cents, 4 for $2.00 Postpaid
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
Oceanside, California, U.S.A. .
THE ROSICRUCIAN MAGAZINE
Rays from the Rose Cross
Mrs. Max Heindel, Editor
A magazine of mystical light devoted to philosophy;
occultism, mystic masonry, astrology, and healing.
It expounds and supports occult and mystical
philosophy in an instructive and interesting manner.
Subscription, $2.00 per year in U. S. and Canada
Other Countries, $2.25.
SIMPLIFIED SCIENTIFIC
ASTROLOGY
BY MAX HEINDEL
Eighth Edition
A complete textbook on the art of erecting a hor-
oscope, making the process simple and easy for be-
ginners. It also includes a Philosophic Encyclopedia
and Tables of Planetary Hours. The encyclopedia
gives basic information regarding the planets and
aspects, and the principles underlying astrology.
The Tables of Planetary Hours enable one to select
the most favorable time for beginning new enterprises.
All Astr·ological Stndents Need Tlllis Book.
198 Pages Cloth Bound $1.50 Postpaid
RQ§JCRUCJAN INTERPRETATION OF
CHRISTIANITY
Ancient Truths in Modern Dnss
BY MAX HEINDEL
Lectures 10 Cents Each, Postpaid.
.. Twelve to Sixteen Pages Each.
The Full Set of Twenty Lectures, $1.50 Postpaid.
No. 1. The Ri<ldle of Life and Death.
No. 2. Where Are the Dead? .
No. 3, Spiritual Sight and the Spir itual Worlds.
No: ·· ·4; · Sleep, Dreams, Trance, Hypnotism, Mediur.1ship,
· and Insanity.
±•io. ' 5. Death, and Life in Purgatory.
No. 6. Life and Activity in Heaven.
No. fl. Birth a Fourfold Event.
No. 8. The Science of Nutrition, Health and Protracted
Youth.
No. 9. The Astrondmical Allegories of the Bible.
No, 10. Astrology: Ifs Scope and Limitations.
No. 11. Spiritual Sight and Insight.
No. 12. Parsifal.
No. 13. The Angels as Factors ~n Evolution.
No. 14. Lucifer, Tempter or Benefactor?
No. 15. The Mystery of Golgotha and the Cleansing
Blood. ·
No. 16. The Star of Bethlehem: A Mystic Fact
No. 17. The Mystery of the Holy Grail.
No. 18. The Lord's Prayer.
No. 19. The Coming Force: Vril or What?
No. 20. Fellowship and the Coming Race.
These lectures are particularly suitable for beginners.
Rrad consecutively, they give a comprehensive outline of
our philosophy.
THEY FIT THE POCKET
and allow a busy man to utilize time on cars en route to or
from business.
GIVE ONE TO A FRIEND
It is an inexpensive and a helpful gift.
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
Oceanside, California, U.S.A.
ASTROLOGY AND THE DUCTLESS
GLANDS
BY AUGUSTA Foss HEINDEL
The tremendous value of this most recent wo~k .of
Mrs. Heindel is shown in the fact that the entire first
printing was exhausted in about four months after its
unheralded appearance.
Condensed within the forty pages of this booklet are
the results of years of personal investigation on the
part of the author-opening up an entirely new field
of thought for the philosophic student of Astrology.
While authentic physical data ar~ given, the re~der
will be specially interested in sharing the author's.
firsthand observations of the functioning of certain of
the Q.uctless glands.
Manly P. Hall, m his illuminating Introduction to
the work, says:
''It is especially significant that through a combination
of Glairvoyance and astrology it is possible to examine
the ductless glands and discover the metaphysical
t:lements in their functioning.''
Attractively Bound in Substantial Art Pape1· Covers
25 Cents Postpaid
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
Oceanside, Californi'.a, U.S.A.
CORRESPONDENCE COURSES
-IN-
(1) The Rosicritcian Philosophy:
Using The Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception by Max
Heindel as textbook, this course of twelve lessons gives
a logical explanation of the origin, evolution, and fu-
ture development of mankind, and opens the way to a
deeper knowledge of this great ubject. This philos-
ophy seeks to make Christianity a living factor in the
world, and to combine the eternal facts of Science, Art,
and Religion. This course is open to all.
(2) Astrology :
We want to assist you in hehping yoitrself and
others. This course of twenty-six lessons teaches the
importance of astrology as a phase of religion and as a
Divine Science. The on'~ restriction is that our pupils
may not prostitute the knowledge thus obtained for
gain in any way. Anyone not engaged in fortune
telling or similar methods of commereializing spir-
itual knowledge may be admitted to this course.
(3) Western Wisdom Bible Teachings:
·This course gives a new insight into the value and
11uthenticity of the Bible as a means to spiritual under-
standing. There are twenty-eight lessons.
For admission to these courses and for information
concerning more advanced courses, address-
(1) Philosophy Secretary.
(2) Astrology Secretary.
(3) Bible Study Secretary.
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
Oceanside, California, U.S.A.
