{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__heindel___rosicrucian_christianity_lecture_20.pdf","mytitle":"Rosicrucian Christianity Lecture 20","mylang":"de"}
LECTURE No. TWENTY
Fellowship and the
Coming Race
THE ROSICRUCIAN
FELLOWSHIP
INTERNATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
Mt. Ecclesia
Oce(lnside, California, 92054
Other Books by Max Heindel
Ancient and Modern Initiation, Cloth. . .. 148 Pages
The Rosicrucian Christianity Lectures,
Cloth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374 Pages
Freemasonry and Catholicism, Cloth.... 110 Pages
Gleanings of a Mystic, Cloth . . . . . . . . . . . 196 Pages
Letters to Students, Cloth . . . ...... ..... 237 Pages
Mysteries of the Great Operas, Cloth .... 176 Pages
Occult Principles of Health and Healing,
· Cloth ......................... .. . 244 Pages
The Rosicrucian Mysteries, Cloth . . . . . . . 215 Pages
Teachings of an Initiate, Cloth. . . . . . . . . . 212 Pages
The Web of Destiny, Cloth ......... . .. 167 Pages
Simplified Scientific Astrology, Cloth........ 198 Pages
The Message of the Stars, Cloth . . . . . . . . . 728 Pages
Astro-Diagnosis a Guide to Healing, Cloth 446 Pages
Write for Complete Price List
The Rosicrucian Fellowship
MT. ECCLESIA
Oceanside, California, U.S.A., 92054
ROSICRUCIAN CHRISTIANITY
LECTURE TWENTY
B'ELLOWSHIP AND THE COMING R.ACE
Copyright 1910 by Ma:JJ Heindel
Re-copyright 1937 bu Mrs. Max Heindel
For explanation of technical terms used see earlier
numbers of this lecture se1·ies. They form a connected,
consecutive whole. ·
Forth from little motes in chaos
We have come to what we are;
No hidden force can stay us,
We shall climb from star to star.
We will break away the fetters
That have bound us heretofore-
For the world today is better
Than it ever was before.
ONWARD, Upward, Forever! is the battle cry ot
the conquering Spirit. Ever since "their eyes
we1·e opened'' the human race has been consciously
imbued with that divine discontent which is our means
of advancement upon the path of evolution. That is
true of the great majority at least; there are some who
have lagged and "kicked against the pricks," bnt con-
tinued prodding will and must eventually bring them
to the goal of perfection and reunion with God. A
''lost soul'' is an impossible conception when we con-
sider that we are all a part of God, in whom as an
actual fact "we live and move and have om· being."
We could not exist outside God, in a hell, and if a
single soul were lost, that would mean that a part of
God w0uld be lost.
But then, it may be asked, what may be tbe mea11ing
cf the number of passages which in the New Testa-
ment speak of "everlasting"' salvation and condernna-
2 FELLOWSHIP AND THE COMING RACE
tion 1 'l'he passages are easily understood when prop-
erly illuminated by a dictionary and a knowledge of the
occult teaching.
In the first place such meaning hinges upon the
definition of the word ''everlasting.'' Lik~ all other
words in the English Version it is translated from
Greek. The original word is "aionian." By refer-
ence to Liddel & Scott's Greek dictionary it will be
seen that this word has many meanings: ''an indefinite
period of time,'' ''an age,'' ''a lifetime,'' as for in-
stance when Paul used it in his letter to Philemon to
whom he retnrned Onesimus, a slave who had become
converted, with the words : ''For perhaps he therefore
departed for a season that thou shouldst receive him
foreVt>:r" (verse 15) . The word "forever" is a trans-
lation of the very same word aioniam, which is ren-
dered ''everlasting·'' in connection with punishment or
salvation, and as Onesimus and Philemon were hoth
mortal men the word aionian must necessarily mean
something different from what we usually have in
:mind when we say ''everlasting.'' In the case cited
it cannot mean a more protracted period than part
of a lifetime.
As soon as we understand that this word does not
mean eterriay, but 0nly an age of indefinite duration,
a period of time which has both beginning and end,
these passages appear in a vastly different light; iI1-
stead of everlasting salvation or condemnation--age-
lasting salvation or condemnation. What does it mean?
In previous lectures we have heard how man started
his evolution in the present dense condition in the
Polarian Epoch where he made the first attempt at
the construction of a body of chemical matter. The
qnality of this body is inertia. In the Bible he is
FELLOWSHIP AND THE COMING RACE 3
ealled Adm. 'rhe Hebrew word Admah means "firm
ground'' and Josephus' rendering ''red earth'' is also
illnminating, for that which was then the human bodv
was formed from the same chemical matter which i!':
the firm groitnd today, but at that time it was not a."'
solid nor as cool as the earth's crust of today. Thr
Earth was just coming out of Chaos then and was in
a reel glow, later to become a brilliantly luminous fire
mist. In the Hyperborean Epoch that luminosity was
attained and man-in-the-making commenced the con-
struction of his vital body, possessing the power to
move tlie dense body.
hi the J_,emurian Epoch he evolved a desire body,
and desire to give incentive to action. In the Atlan-
tean Epoch the mind was added to act as a brake on
impulse. Cunning is its inherent quality, but in our
present Aryan Epoch the Ji}go manifests through the
mind, evolving the faculty of reason to supersede
cunning.
Thus, in each of the previous ages a vehicle having
a certain faculty or quality has been evolved to a cer-
tain stage of completion, just as in a school the chil-
dren pass onwards from grade to grade year after
year, evolving the faculty of reading, of writing, etc.,
to a certain stage in each grade.
But there ar·e some who fail in each class 0very year.
there are some who are "weighed and found wanting"
in the requisite attainment of knowledge necessary
for promotion to a higher ~rade. Therefore they are
condemned to remain in the same class for another
year, to gain the necessary proficiency to enter a new
elass and obtain more advanced instruction.
Those who have diligently endeavored to mastel'
their lessons are saved from that necessity and are told
4 FELLOWSHIP AND THE COMING RACE
to "enter into" a new class. They have not attained
once and for all; in the new class there are new lessons
to be learned, and unless each one keeps on in patient
and persistent well-doing he will certainly be con-
demned when the next examination comes.
As in the school for children, so in the school of
life, constant endeavor is the price of promotion and in
each stage there have been those who have lagged be-
hind. We of the Western World are the pioneers, gen-
erally speaking, and the other races: brown, yellow,
and black, are stragglers at varying stages of in-
efficiency ; nevertheless they are all advancing and
they will sometime reach our stage of attainment and
we. shall have gone higher-if we continue to be
diligent.
To understand this matter properly it is necessary
to differentiate clearly between the race-bodies and
the Spirits who inhabit them. The pioneers are always
given race-bodies soft, pliable, and flexible, respon-
sive and capable of attaining a certain height in evolu-
tion. Under the sway of the pioneer Spirits the race
or nation evolves as far as it may, and when it has
reached its zenith of attainment the pioneers leave it
to the next class of stragglers and then commences the
decline of the race as it is taken in turn by class after
class of Spirits of increasiingly inferior abilities, until
at last it has degenerated so low that there are no
Spirits belonging to our human life-wave backward
enough to progress by birth in such bodies. Then the
women cease to be fruitful, for no fertillzing seed-
atoms are deposited and the race dies out.
Such is the divine plan of advancement, but here as
everywhere man has the equally divine preJ'ogative of
bringing disorder in nature for a time, and so attach
FELLOWSHIP AND THE COMING RACE 5
himself to a race that he may 1·esist for ages the efforts
of the Great Leaders to help him progress, as we shall
see has been the case with a certain class of Spirits.
Considering the fact that the task of the Aryan races
is to evolve reason, and that we of the Western World
are the most advanced, it is not at all surprising that
we analyze everything, religion included. Religion
like all else is in a state of growth and becoming, and
as the present work of the Western World is prin-
cipally along material lines its religious teachings are
not yet so clearly enunciated as in some of the Eastern
religions. The result is that some of the investigators
scoff at the Christian teachings, and others have been
led to forsake the Christian religion and have adopted
Eastern systems.
From the occult standpoint that is a retrogression.
The Great Recording Angels who have charge of our
present evolution give to each nation the religion
suited to its stage of growth, and we may rest assured
that those Great Intelligences make no mistakes. They
have given to us the Bible containing both the Jewish
and the Christian Religions. One would not have
been enough, both are absolutely necessary to our evo-
lution as we shall see when we consider the matter
thoroughly. When we have done that we shall also find
that of all the religious systems in the world, this is
positively the only one suited to the needs of the West-
ern World, the only one which is capable of making
us "wise unto salvation" and enable us to "enter
into'' the ''new heaven and the new earth'' ; the com-
ing age and the coming race.
As previously stated, we evolved a dense, a vital,
and a desire body during the Polarian, Hyperborean,
and Lemurian Epochs, but the Spirit had not yet drawn
ii FELLOWSHIP AND THE COMING RACE
into its vehicles, it hovered 011tside much as the Group
Spirits of the aJJimals do, for there was no connecting
111.incl whereby it could link itself with its vehicles.
In the latter part of the Lemurian Epoch there was
a small pai·t of this nasrent humanity who were suffi-
ciently <1dvanced so that a germillal mind could be
given them and the Spirit could commence slowly to
draw into its vehicles. On that account these peoplr
were different from all the rest of the to-be-huma11
beings of that time, they We?'C the first race, a chuRell
people, selected from the rest on account of special
fitness to 1·eceive in germ the miud which was to be
evolved dnrin11: the coming Atlantean Epoch.
There are no sudden processes in Nature, however;
the Spirit did not draw into its vehicles in a day. It
took ages, and was not fully accomplished until the
middle of the Atlantean Epoch. In the meantime the
mind Imel also heen growing, and for 1·easons more
clem·l,v given in JJect11l'es No. 13 and 14, it coalesced
with the desire body which it ruled, as a sort of animal-
soul by cunning, using brain rather than hraw11 to
fmther its ends.
In the Polarian Epoch the Earth was a dark heated
mass, "without [definite] form and void." In the
Hyperborean Epoch ''God said, Let there be light,''
and the dark mass became a luminous fire mist. Iu
the Lemurian Epoch the contact of the heated fire mist
with the cold of outside space produced moisture,
dense water nearest the fiery core which, being heated,
rushed outwards as steam to be cooled and fall back
to the central source of heat. Thus ''God divided
the waters from the waters,'' the dense water from
the steam.
FELLOWSHIP AND THE COMING RACE 7
In that manner incrustations commenced to fonn
in the latter part of Lemuria and upon such crust
islauds man lived in an atmosphere of fire-fog.
In the early Atlantean Epoch the Earth became
fully incrusted arid from this damp Earth "there
went up a mist from the ground and watered the
whole face of the earth."
'l'his mist grew less and less dense and its extension
above the surface of the Ea1th diminished gradually
until at last it ceased to envelop the human beings, who
the11 began to see the clear atmosphere around them at
about the same time that the Spirit had drawn fully
into its vehicles.
Again there were some who had advanced further
than others and were therefore ''a chosen people'' to
become the forbears of a people ''multitudinous as the
sands upon the seashore'' in a ''promised land.''
At that time the mist had condensed into water
which gradually flooded the valley of Atlantis, situ-
ated between the present Europe and America, so it
became necessary for ''God's people'' to migrate and
they were led out of the doomed Atlantis, as variously
related in the stories of Noah who first saw the rainbow
(for that phenomenon was impossible i.n the foggy
Atlantean atmosphere), and of Moses who led "the
chosen people'' through the waters of the Red Sea
where Pharaoh or the wicked Atlantean kings perished.
The chosen people were the Original Semites, the
fifth of the Atlantean Races. There were no races prior
to the one spoken of in the latter part of the Lemurian
Epoch. In the Atlantean Epoch there were seven;
seven more there wiil have been before our pres-
ent Aryan Epoch is ended and there will be one in
the beginning of the Sixth Epoch, which the Rosi-
8 FELLOWSHIP AND THE COMING RACE
crucians call the "New Galilee," a total of sixteen
races.
During Periods, Revolutions, and the other Epochs
there is such an abundance of time that the Great
Leaders manage to get nearly all the spirits in their
charge through, but during the periods in which the
sixteen races are born and die, conditions are dense
ai1d the time of their rise and fall is comparatively
very brief so that there is grave danger to the Spirits
who may become fettered and crystallized in the dense
race-bodies and fail to progress. Salvation is there-
fore to be striven for more earnestly at this time, for
the possibility of condemnation is greater during the
Spirits' passage through the sixteen races than at any
other time. Therefore Occultists call these races the
sixteen paths to destruction, and they are a very
serious concern to the Great Leaders of humanity.
Race pertains to the body, and when a new race is
to be bred a Great Leader selects the most likely among
the old stock and regulates their marriage relations
with a view to produce the right kind of a body for
the coming race. When his ''chosen people'' marry
contrary to his directions they frustrate his object.
In the earlier epochs before man became endowed
with a mind it was easy to lead him, but at the time
when the Original Semites were ''chosen'' they had
already become sufficiently evolved to resent a curb
on their liberty; besides, that curb must not be too
strong, for it was necessary that they should have a
certain amount of free will rather than remain God-
guided automatons.
Therefore it was hard to guide such a "stiff-necked
people,'' and many of ''the sons of God married the
daughters of men" and frustrated the designs of their
FELLOWSHIP AND THE COMING RACE 9
lrader. It was therefore neeessary to segregate them
and their offspring from the faithful who were led
CJ way from them and th us became "lost" in the esti-
mation of the rebels who do not realize to this day that
in reality they are the "lost" ones and are no longer
a chosen people.
The faithful ones were secluded in Central Asia and
there became the forbears of the Aryan races which
have emerged thence and are now inhabiting ''the
promised land,'' uot insignificant Palestine, but the
whole earth as now constituted. The rebels are the
Jews.
In the coming Sixth Epoch there are to be no races.
Universal Brotherhood is to obtain agaiu, and there-
fore a new ''chosen people'' must be taken out to
usher in the new dispensation; but now man has pro-
g1·essed so far that no outside influence may be ex-
erted to coerce him, and therefore each must choose
himself as dictated to from within; and as be is now
a reasoning, intellectual being, what better method
could be devised than to bring before him the awful
example of how a former pioneer-race, a chosen people,
had frustrated the designs for their adva11cement and
had become the ''lost sheep of Israel'' ?
Surely, example is a better teacher than precept,
and as these people had kept a record of their choos-
ing and of the dealing of their leader with them, what
better could be done than to give to the pioneer-race,
whence the nucleus for the coming race if'! to come,
that record ? It does not matter that these rebels still
think themselves "a chosen people," or that their
records have been mutilated; the lesson is as valid,
the example is an awful one, and it is needful for us,
for, as Paul says, ''If the word spoken by angels was
10 FELLOWSHIP AND THE COMING RACE
i:;teaJfast, and every transgression and disobedience re-
ceived a just recompense of reward; how shall we
escape if we neglect so great salvation; whi.ch at the
first began to be spoken by the Lord 1'' The Christian
religion as popularly expounded suffices for the spir-
itual needs of the great majority of the Western peo-
ple who are yet working out the material phase of evo-
lution and for those who desire to be among the
pioneer nucleus of the corning race it is but necessary
to seek and they shall find the esoteric Christianity
which will be the universal religion of the Sixth
Epoch, superseding the race-religions of Hinduism,
Buddhism, Judaism, etc., as Universal Bl'otherhood
will supersede races and nations.
To realize properly the dreadful example of the
Jews it must he noted that they have from the begin-
ning become imbued with the idea of being a chosen
people, and all other people have been despised by
them as Gentiles. Thus, instead of progressing through
the races this class of spirits have incarnated again,
and again in the Jewish race-bodies and have become
so crystallized in them that they cannot progress along
with the rest of the human race, if they keep on. They
were lost by marrying outside the race, and it is prob-
able that at that time there came to them a slight
realization of their mistake so that since they have per-
sistently married within their own tribes. The Great
Leaders in evolution have tried to help them by exiling
them repeatedly among other nations, but in vain ;
they have always refused to amalgamate, and again and
again they have returned to their arid land, happy if
they could but shut themselves away from others.
Therefore, as a last resort, when the Great Leader,
Christ Jesus, came to teach that Universal Brother-
FELLOWSHIP AND 'fHE COMING RACE 11
hood is to supersede nations and tribes He went to
those who needed it most, the crystallized ,Jewish peo-
ple. Other people may stand lower in the scale of
evolntion, but none were or are "lost" in the same
dreadful sense as they. All other Spirits are progress-
ing from race to race, they alone are continually
rehorn as Jews, and in time they will be behind all
others; may even have to go into Chaos when they
have been left too far behind, and they will then have
to take up their progression when a future evolution
bas advanced sufficiently to accord them the necessary
facility, as probably is the case with the Lucifer spirits.
To save them from such a fate Jesus was born among
them. A stranger could certainly not have helped
them, him they would have despised, so he was born
among them as Booker T. Washington has been born
among the Negroes to help them, for being one of their
own from the standpoint of color he can help them as
no one in a white body can, and it was for a similar
1·eason thonght that the Jews might accept the teach-
ings of Christ Jesus if they could be brought to regard
these teachings as coming from one who seemed a Jew.
Thus it was said that "He came to his own," but alas,
"they chose Barabbas" and crucified Christ Jesus.
That was the last straw; the Great Leaders saw that
henceforth it would be useless to make further at-
tempts to save them in a body. Therefore the Jews
have been scattered over the face of the earth, a people
without a country. In spite of all, such is the
tenacity with which these spirits hold on to their race,
that despite all persecutions they are as much Jews
as ever, they despise their neighbors as Gentiles yet,
and are therefore in turn hated and despised. Besides,
they are strongly imbued with the Atlantean faculty
12 FELLOWSHIP AND THE COMING RACE
of cunning, and that is what holds then1 back more
than anything else. They do not want to amalgamate
now any more than they have always wanted to, so far
as the Jews of Europe and Asia are concerned, but in
America there is now a distinctly observable falling
off from Orthodoxy, particularly among the younger
generation of Jews. More and more they are marry-
ing among the other nationalities gathered here in
the "melting-pot" where the nations are being welded
together to form a new race having all the best quali-
ties of all the different race-bodies. In time, as they
come here in greater numbers these Jews will do their
share and bring their quota of mixed children into the
world, furnishing the excarnate Jewish Spirits bodies
having less and less of the Jewish race characteristics,
and in time these Spirits will be saved by marrying
into a higher race as they were temporarily ''lost'' by
marrying into an inferior nation.
As the Lemurians evolved desire through the desire
body, the Atlanteans evolved cunning through the
mind. We are evolving reason by the activity of the
Ego which is the threefold Spirit acting solely through
its outermost veil, the Human Spirit, and in the Sixth
Epoch the Life-Spirit will implant and ripen the
faculties of intuition and love. Those who aspire to be-
come the pioneers of the coming race must therefore
strive to cultivate these faculties within themselves.
As in former cases, the breeding of a race means
generation and at the present time that is performed
through passion rather than love. Marriages are made
for convenience, a home, or other ulterior considera-
tions. Therefore so many who desire to live the higher
life seek to escape marriage and parenthood; which is a
great mistake, for of all people these who have become
FELLOWSHIP AND THE COMING RACE 13
imbued with a higher knowledge are the best fitted for
the duty of bringing up children; they cun best con-
trol passion and perform the generative act from love,
as a sacrifice laid upon the altar of humanity.
In the coming race the fellowship and this love will
also extends to our younger brothers-the animals. In-
stead of doing as we are at present, hunting, killing,
and often tormenting them, we shall care for them and
win their confidence. 1'hus all the glorious prophecies
will come into effect. Men will beat their swords into
ploughshares and their spears into pruning-hookR, they
will ~it each one under his fig tree and eat the fruit
thereof; there will then be peace on earth and good
will among men.
It is our privilege to help usher in that gloriom: Rge.
The age is ready when we are. 'rhere is no out::iidc
force to bring it about, there is no exterior leader to
be expected till a sufficient number have commenced
to live Brotherhood. It is vain to look for a second
Coming of Christ in any other way than by making
ourselves ready to receive Him, for it has been truly
said of that coming that ''the day and the hour know-
eth no man." It may be long or it may be short, there
is no fixed time. As we live lives of selfishness, indulge
in passion or vice, we retard His coming, and vice
~ersa do we hasten it by living lives of love that lighten
the burdens and bear the sorrows of others. Only
when the Christ has been formed within ean He be
perceived without, for-
Though Christ a thousand times in Bethlehem be born
And not within thyself, thy soul will be forlorn.
The Cross on Golgotha thou lookest to in vain
Unless within thyself it be set up again.
5_ YI} :~~iior.!_<>f~t~QiO<_~lit
-4 / ~Refto11o!Co:lcrtk~
THE SEVEN DAYS OFCREATION
AND
THE fouR GREAT INITIATIONS
ORDINARY HUMANITY PURSUES THE SPIRAi.PATH
THE INITIATE. GOES THE STRAIGHTAND NARROW WAY THAT LEADS
I
SATURN-PERIOD
( 5ATUROAY)
VIOLET
6
VENUS-PERIOD
(FRIOAV)
RED
3
MooN-PERIOD
(MON DAV)
6LUE
4
EARTH -
7
VuLCAN-PERIOD
THE WEEK
{fMBRACING ~~TH( OAYI)
WHITE
(1HCLVll•ll6 l\Ll Tll[ COleR!)
.5UN-'i:>fRIOO
(SUNDAY)
INDIGO
$
J UP IT ER.-PER.100
(THURS DAV)
ORANGE
- PERIOD
Me:l\C.URV•HALF MARS •HALF
(WEONE$0AY)-YELLOW (TUESDAY) Ci REEN
l
THE WAYOF INITIATION
THERE WAS NO INITIATION PRIOR. TO THE E.ND OF HIE.
MAR.!. HALF OF THE. tARTH PERIOD. THE. LESSER M~­
TEA1£$ EM BRACE. HUMAN f\IOLTION IN THE MERCURY
HALF 0 f THE EARTH PE.RIOO
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
An Aquarian M011ement
There was a time, even as late as Greece, when Religion,
Art, and Science were taught unitedly in the Mystery
temples. But it was necessary for the better develop-
ment of each that they should separate for a time.
Religion held sole sway in the so-called "dark ages."
During that time it bound both Science and Art hand and
foot. Then came the period of the Renaissance, and Art
came to the fore in all its branches. Religion was strong
as yet, however, and Art was only 'too often prostituted in
the service of Religion. Last came the wave of modern
Science, and with iron hand it has subjugated Religion.
It was a detriment to the world when Religion shackled
Science. Ignorance and Superstition caused untold woe.
Nevertheless man cherished a lofty spiritual ideal then; he
hoped for a higher and better life. It is infinitely more
disastrous that Science is killing Religion, for now even
Hope, the only gift of the gods left in Pandora's box, may
vanish before Materialism and Agnosticism.
Such a state cannot continue. Reaction must set in. It
it does not, anarchy will rend the cosmos. To avert such
a calamity Religion, Science and Art must reunite in a
higher expression of the Good, the True, and the Beautiful
tl1an obtained before the separation.
Coming events cast their shadows before. and when the
Great Leaders of humanity saw the tendency toward
ultra-materialism which is now rampant in the Western
World, they took certain steps to counteract and transmute
it at the auspicious time. They did not wish to kill the
budding Science as the latter had strangled Religion, for
they saw the ultimate good which will result when an ad-
vanced Science has again become a co-worker with Re-
ligion.
A spiritual Religion, however, cannot blend with a mate-
rialistic Science any more than oil can mix with water.
Therefore steps were taken to spiritualize Science and
make Religion scientific.
In the thirteenth century a high spiritual teacher, hav-
ing the symbolical name Christian Rosenkreuz-Christian
Rose-Cross-appeared in Europe to commence this work.
He founded the mysterious Order of Rosicrucians with the
object of throwing occult light upon the misunderstood
Christian Religion and to explain the mystery of Life and
Being from the scientific standpoint in harmony with Re-
ligion.
In the past centuries the Rosicrucians have worked in
secret, but now the time has come for giving out a definite,
logical, and sequential teaching concerning the origin,
evolution, and future development of the world and man,
showing both the spiritual and the scientific aspects; a
teaching which makes no statements that are not sup-
ported by reason and logic.
'fHE MYSTICAL INTERPRETATION
OF CHRISTMAS
By MAX HEINDEL
Christianity has been expounded from thousands of
pulpits during the past 2000 years. Neverthel~ss.
humanity today has but an allegorical conception of
Christ and His ministry.
This treatise covers the Cosmic Significance of
Christmas and the annual Sacrifice of Christ, traces
the astrological interpretation up through the sim-
plicity of nature worship, and sketches a glorious
outlook for the coming age, which inspires the casual
reader to seek more Light. 51 Pages. Well indexed.
46 Pages Indexed Art Paper Cover
THE MYSTICAL INTERPRETATION
OF EASTER
By MAX HEINDEL
This 56-page booklet contains some of the most beau-
tiful writings of the founder of the Rosicrucian Fel-
lowship. It gives the true esoteric meaning of the
resurrection of Christ Jesus, His correlation to the
great Sun Spirit, and an explanation of His mission
on Earth. Here will be found the results of firsthand
,.esearch into the Memory of Nature.
56 Pages Art Paper Cover
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
Oceanside, California, U.S.A., 92054
TEACHINGS OF AN INITIATE
By MAX HEINDEL
This book is compiied from the writings of an
Initiate of the Rosicrucian Order.
It comprises a series of lessons issued by the
author to his students, together with various pub-
lic addresses. A few chapter headings will give
an idea of the contents of the book :
The Scientific Method of Spiritual Unfoldment
The Death of the Soul
Our Work in the World (Three chapters)
Mystic Light on the World War (Three chapters'
The Secret of Success
The Sign of the Master
ReUgion and Healing
Max Heindel was well qualified to impart esoteric
kl\owledge on these subjects, by virtue of his various
Initiations into the :Mysteries. TEACHINGS OF AN
INITIATE contains the later fruit of the author's
extensive occult investigations. It is of value to
both the beginner and the advanced student of
occultism. Indexed for ready reference.
212 Pages Indexed Cloth Bound
.. . .
THE ROSICRUCIAN .b'ELLOWSHIP
Oceanside, California, U.S.A., 92054
