{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__hastings___kingdom_within.pdf","mytitle":"Kingdom Within","mylang":"de"}
THE KINGDOM
WITHIN
By Stella Flowers Hastings
IN DEO VINCO
DeVorss Co., Publishers
843 South Ghand'Avbnub
Los Anoblbs, California
/.'
G#fighC 1937
/.
.."
By Stella Flowers Hastings
Printed in the United States
of
America
by DeVorss 6* Co., Los Angeles, California
y21d
Mv Ufe t£ consecrateb to Ityee.
Mv toorfe cons;ecrateb to Cbee.
Jllesft tbte trap eacb one fjere.
&attSfp tbetr inmost longings for
Cbee anb blesfc eacb one tobo
enters; tf)te bome, Cbine.
Jftll tfjem toitb tbe Spirit of CbP
bolp S>eU.
iHap all bemgg be peaceful
ifllap all beings; be bappi>-
jHap all beings; be blts&ful tn tEbee.
Jfflap ^bp life be fulftlleb tn tbem.
&um ^b^ntt, ^bantt, S>bantt!
9597*29 —Sanskrit.
5
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction 9
Religion and Philosophy 11
The Goal of Freedom 21
Desire: The Key to Advancement 33
Wisdom's Holy Light 53
Look Up. and Seek Within 63
Self—The Master 77
The Indwelling One 93
Reincarnation 103
Religion and Freedom 120
The Three-Fold Path of Attainment 129
Conclusion 147
To the Great Souls
Who are guiding me along the Path,
To the Visible and Invisible Teachers
Who are helping me to find the Light
And to all students
Who are seeking the Kingdom Within
I dedicate this my harvest
Gathered along the Path of Attainment.
Mr. G#C
Univers
Dear Sia
j
was forvi
found til
worthy o
American
autograplj
That I am
not know
wrote it.
INTRODUCTION
This book of philosophical lecture-lessons is given
to the public not because of any fancied claim to liter
ary personality on my part. It has been written rather
as if impelled by some loving hand, some great motive
force, some inspiration, some overshadowing will
power greater than my own.
No voluntary gesture of mine could have produced
the book; yet I am not unmindful of the retaining
power of the subconscious mind that has recorded the
thoughts of many philosophers, metaphysicians, occult
ists, religious thinkers and writers who have interested
me. I have not used the intellectual mind in selecting
the subject matter in this book, save where I have quot
ed the sentences and poems of others.
I wish to express my gratitude to Swami Bhagwan
Bissessar of Benares, India, my spiritual teacher for
many years, whose belief in my sincerity has kept the
Flame burning.
I am indebted to Swami Ashokananda of the Vedan-
ta Temple, San Francisco, California, for the transla
tions from the Sanskrit of the Vedic hymns and pray
ers that I have used. To Manly Hall and to Dr
Clarence Reed of the Unitarian Church, Oakland, Cali
fornia, to Dorothea Ormsby who typed and edited this
book, to my Godson, Frederic McEwen Righter, and
to the many spiritual teachers and friends who have
encouraged me, I express my deep appreciation.
Most important are the messages herein contained.
From whatever source they may have come, they teach
The Kingdom Within and reward the student who is
seeking liberation on the Three-Fold Path of Attain
ment.
—Stella Flowers Hastings.
9
INEFFABLE SPIRIT.
Ineffable Spirit —
The ebb and flow of life
Knows no master;
It is THE MASTER.
Long before my soul was born—
A virgin soul—
This power possessed my being
And vast Eternity
Ruled me, the earth, and space.
The broadness of my vision sees
With perfect universal sight
That Man and beast, the pagan gods,
Earth, water, air and flame
Are all ephemeral.
Divinity, the All Victorious-
End of all beginnings,
Beginning of all end—
Dwells eternally alone
Changeless and supreme
Within the stillness of my heart.
10
RELIGION and PHILOSOPHY
THE
desire for wisdom and knowledge is one of the
greatest and most ancient of human emotions. The
most ignorant, the most drastic unbeliever is ever seek
ing for something he has not found, and he does not
find because of inertia, misunderstanding, lack of work
and earnest desire. We must not only desire Truth,
we must seek within the Self and contact from without
an ethical environment that will help in our studies
if we are to advance along the Path of Attainment and
arrive at the shrine of Truth.
Before j> is posible for the student to perceive the
hidden mysteries he must understand and practice the
Seven Principles. He must come clothed with faculties
and body developed, have the mind under control, and
desire spirituality. He must follow the Path step by
step and not expect to be carried through the gates of
Paradise on the wings of Seraphim.
Mrs. Nellie Holbrook of San Francisco placed a
rosebud over a bronze gong that came from a Zend
Temple in Japan. This gong was made from offer
ings—the coins of the poor, the gold of the rich—and
had been used in religious rites for twenty-five hun
dred years. When my friend hit the gong and its
vibrations began to spiral the sacred word Om, the
rosebud began to tremble. As the vibrations rose
higher and higher and the sound became lost in the
Cosmos, my friend repeatedly hit the gong. The vibra
tions became so strong the rosebud unfolded its petals
one by one, and in forty-five minutes a full-blown rose
presented its radiant heart to the light. The soul
within the rose responded to the vibrations without
11
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
and brought forth a bloom of transcendental beauty.
As with the rose, so it is with the soul of man. He
has hidden within a power that can move mountains
but he must raise his consciousness, keep, his body fit
and respond to vibrations of the Cosmos. As the
vibrations become higher and higher they will open
the rosebud of the soul and he will find his heart
flooded with radiant light. It may take many incar
nations to accomplish this—it may come like a flash
of lightning to those who through desire and discip
line have merited its coming.
Three steps in this preparation of man to receive
knowledge are: keep the body healthy, the mind har
monious, the soul desiring. He will then have the
capacity, and in a measure be capable of understand
ing why the orientals lay such stress on meditation,
discipline and practice. The organs of the body, when
prepared by the study of Hatha Yoga, will be able to
withstand the high vibrations that come as he advances
along the Path. When prepared for spiritual awaken
ing, the student does not smash against the rocks of
materialism as does a rudderless ship; he is a captain
directing his body, and will be the captain of his mind
and soul as he advances.
A student must not be led astray by conflicting doc
trines. He must learn that all religions, all pholosophy
—all metaphysics lead to one goal. Sri Rama Krishna
found this to be true. He ardently followed each one
to the end (Illumination). He found that the goal
was the same —that this goal could be attained by fol
lowing the path, with mind one-pointed, to the end
of any one of the religions.
There are many pathways leading to the goal, and
12
RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY
if the mind is kept one-pointed there will be a flame,
however dim, lighting the way.
Luther Burbank called a man a "human plant." He
knew that both the plant and man unfolded under
the munificent influence of God. The sun nourishes
the soul of man; it nourishes the soul of the flower;
the moon, the rain, the Earth-mother all contribute to
the opening buds, the growing stems, and the leaves.
Within is the Divine, urging them on to fruition in
beauty and fragrance that the seeds may ripen to the
proper measure and fulfillment of life.
Progress is the greatest attribute of all sciences, of
all art, of all religions and philosophies. The student
of philosophy must progress if he would find knowl
edge and wisdom. It must be remembered the philos
opher does not believe that a miracle brings about
understanding. He knows of the working of the law
of cause and effect —the law of activity—the law of
experience. He knows that these are God's gracious
means of awakening the sleeping soul.
Discrimination is another step in this upward
climb. If one expresses integrity he will be able to
see and practice the virtures. He will also see the
conflict, confusion, unhappiness that comes when ig
noring the virtues.
One who practices the virtues never falls a victim
to the indiscriminate man; charting his pole-star he
sails onward toward his goal through a galaxy of con
stellations and finds safe harbor beyond the Milky
Way.
Application is one more step; it is the electric spark
directed by the will. With desire for continuity and
perfection the mind can apply itself in meditation, and
13
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
get the fulfillment of its desire, providing it is right
desire. The integrity of purpose and discrimination
between noble standards and petty, intolerable codes
of theory will claim their reward.
Without intensity of purpose there can be no ad
vancement in any phase of life. One who is a slug
gard will sit in a sunny place and smile. Such smiles
usually wind up in tattered raiment, and when it is
raining we see such a one shrugging up his shoulders
and slapping his hands against his thighs to keep
warm . Is there not some unsatisfied longing behind
that smile? Is there not some cryptic heartache —
some hidden vision of accomplishment yet unfinished ?
The mind moves along strange curves in darkness and
in light and passes half of its earthly life in accom
plishing its heart's desire; it can bring to fruition
any hidden vision.
There is a noble way of living; it is embodied in
the belief that tradition and Divine laws have proven
to be workable standards for living; that thejntegrity
of purpose signifies much more than the word hon
esty! Honesty may be a standard of right and wrong
and be different in each individual. Integrity is the
Divine impulse to live and help to find a code of
standards —to help others and self to recognize higher
ethics of living.
Intelligence exists in every manifestation of crea
tion. The universal system is controlled by the un
failing law of activity—a law definite in its purpose
and put in operation and upheld by the Eternal Mind.
We have a portion of that mind within us. We
are of the nature of God and it is our destiny to go
onward and upward in the likeness of God.
14
RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY
The reasoning mind plods along content to measure
heaven and the formations of the earth, the "origin
of the species," and dissect the sweat-glands with a
microscopic lens. It speculates upon the creation of
man and the facts relative to the development of civi
lization, and takes lofty heights in the exoteric side
of human life. It however meets a barrier when it
would seek to enter the sacred vaults of religion and
the inner teachings of philosophy. It is only with
the superconscious or spiritual mind that man is car
ried into the vaults where wisdom dwells. The meta
physician seeks to arrive at Truth that is beyond the
intellect. Disregarding external hypothesis, the spir
itual student extends his questing to the esoteric which
is beyond the reasoning mind.
To deal with religion and philosophy as though
they are a vesture to be put on and taken off at will
is to close the mind to the fundamental facts that gov
ern life. We do not believe there is a religion or
philosophy that does not lift mankind to a higher ideal
of beauty —that does not seek to bring to him the Light
of Understanding so that he "may have life more
abundantly."
Religion and philosophy bring a deeper love of home
and family, a more profound belief in the Brotherhood
of Man. God has implanted in man a religious in
stinct, a faculty that lifts him into a cycle higher than
that of the beast. No matter what name we assign to
the Deity we recognize Him as the ruling power in the
universe and in our life. The first hymns were in in
vocation and praise of The Most High. These hymns
generally began by describing the beauty, power, be
nevolence, love and charity of the Deity.
15
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
What could be more beautiful than the following
invocation translated from the Sanskrit, and sent to me
by Swami Ashokananda of the Vedanta Temple in
San Francisco:
"O Thou the Bright Effulgent One
May my body be filled with joy and peace and
contentment;
May my speech, life, eyes, ears, energy and
senses
Enjoy poise and harmony.
All this is verily Divine!
May I not deny the Divine, may He never for
sake me.
May the glory of Self-realization be manifest
In and through my life; through my being
May I verily express Him."
The poets of the Vedic hymns aspired to
immortality.
"Where there is Eternal Light in the world, where
the sun is placed, in that immortal imperish
able world place me, O Soma."
"Where life is free in the third heaven of heavens,
Where the worlds are radiant, there make me im
mortal."
"Where there is happiness and delight, where the
desire of the heart is attained: there make me
immortal."
Thus sang the Vedic bards thousands of years be
fore the Christian era. They had knowledge of one
of the greatest Christian mysteries
— the immortality
of the soul.
16
RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY
There are ancient hymns ascribed to Zoroaster:
"Hear with your ears what is best: perceive with
your mind what is purest,
So that each man for himself may, before the great
doom cometh,
Choose the creed he prefers.
May the wise ones be on our side;
O men if you but cling to the precepts Mazda has
given,
Precepts Which to the bad are a torment,
But joy to the righteous,
Then shall you one day find yourself victorious
through them."
There are the Songs of Solomon in the Hebrew
Bible—the most inspiring that have ever been written:
"The voice of my beloved! behold he cometh leaping
Upon the mountains—
Skipping upon the hills.
Lo! winter is past, the rain is over and gone;
The flowers appear on the earth,
The time of the singing of birds is come
And the voice of the turtle is heard.
The
fig
tree putteth forth her green leaves
And the vine and the tender grape have
a
good
smell
;
, Arise my love, my fair one, come forth."
There
is
no one in the modern world capable of
writing poetry of such transcendental beauty
!
Why
is
this?
It
is
because man
is
so far separated from God.
These poets were Masters, the Chosen Ones of God.
Without God in the world our senses would be
lost—the universal structure go down in darkness.
17
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
There would be the void it was before He "spoke the
Word."
To seek the unknown, whether we are conscious
of it or not, is one of the dominant characteristics of
man. One of the pronounced attributes of his nature
is the ever-questing mind that wants to know the how
and ivhy of the manifest, the ufbere and what of the
unmanifest. Man is ever concerning himself with the
riddle of the universe and however he may account
for it through the reasoning mind, the facts of the
Knowable and Unknowable remain.
Man endowed with a portion of the Eternal Mind
can develop through the subconscious mind latent pow
ers that will exalt him—astral powers that will terrify
him.
The vibrations that bring about illumination can
be of such dynamic power they can carry one to the
seventh heaven of bliss or shatter the body and the
mind. That is why it is so necessary to have seclusion
and to be under the guidance of a true teacher at such
times.
Intelligent activity exists in every manifestation of
nature. The entire universe is controlled by Cosmic
Law—a law definite in its workings and purpose.
To live in harmony with the spiritual law,
To be obedient to the laws of nature
Is to have a tranquil harmonious life,
And to travel further on the Path of Attainment..
To be oblivious to the working of God's law—
To be disobedient to the law of nature
Is to be weighed down with a worried mind
And an ailing body.
Manly Hall in his book, "Lectures on Ancient Phil-
18
RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY
oscpby," says: "Philosophy alone can bestow on man
the precious gift of immortality. For though every
human soul is innately Divine beyond dissolution it
cannot partake of its own permanence without the per
ception which philosophy gives."
Through the order, beauty, symmetry and harmony
of the universe there is ample rational evidence of the
supreme power of the Knowable and Unknowable.
"By realizing Him who is both the high and
low
The knots of the heart are cut asunder.
All doubts disappear and the effects of good
and bad are destroyed.
As the flowing rivers having relinquished
Their names and forms merge into the
ocean
So the wise being free from name and form
Attain the effulgent Supreme Being."*
(♦Permission to print given by Swami Ashakonanda
of the Vedanta Society of San Francisco).
19
GOD
GOD, the Knower,
GOD, the Ocean
Of Eternal, Cosmic Mind !
And the eddies
Are the Spirits
—
Blessed Souls, of all mankind.
Rise the white-caps—
Beat the breakers —
All a part of Life's swift day;
And the souls
Made pure by washing
Follow CHRIST, the Perfect Way.
20
THE GOAL OF FREEDOM
Advanced
occultists affirm that there are three ab
solute fundamental principles of religious or
philosophical belief, three truths which are absolute,
which cannot be lost, and which unify all manifesta
tions in the seen and unseen universes.
These three principles remain silent for lack of
speech, but are perceived by those who desire percep
tion. They say: "The soul of man is immortal and
that its future is a thing whose growth can have no
limitations." (2) "The Power that gives life dwells in
us and without us, is undying, changeless and eternally
good; it is not heard or seen or felt, but is perceived
by those who desire perception." (3) "Each man is
his own absolute law, the dispenser of glory or gloom
to himself, his reward, his punishment." These truths
are as great as life itself; they are as simple as the
simplest mind of man. "Feed the hungry with them."
Thus sayeth the Wise Ones.
We know the intelligent use of life is mind in
action and all mankind would do better if they knew
how.
It is so easy for the enlightened ones to teach truth
so hard to be understood, and so hard for the student
to understand. We are all asking ourselves "what is it
I really want, and how can I get it?" We are all
seeking to know the truth about ourselves. We want
to gain a fuller knowledge of the Christ-principle and
its application to the problems of our daily life; we
seek to know our responsibilities to our fellow-men;
we want to know all about desire (the most insistent
fact of creation; we want to know right desire, and
21
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
wrong desire, and how to determine right desire from
wrong desire.
We are ever seeking to know more about God
and how to get closer to Him. God is manifesting in
creation; therefore, desire, a creation of mind, must be
a God quality. Right desire sends us heavenward;
wrong desire binds us to the earth and we lay up
Karma for ourselves each time we yield to wrong de
sire. How are we to know, how determine, right de
sire ? If you want something and are uncertain about it
being the right thing for you, ask yourself, "Will this
desire take anything away from another, will it harm
anyone, will it deter me from reaching my highest
ideals, my Oneness with God?" If you can answer
"No" to all of these questions you have the right de
sire, and its fulfillment is yours by Divine heritage. If
you are in doubt about the answers to these questions
you have not the right desire, so drop it or elevate it
by a process of purification or transmutation.
In the Upanishads we find: "If you deserve, the
object of desire will be brought to you; if you are
worthy, help must come to you." The Upanishads also
tell us that "The moment that you assume a craving,
begging attitude you will be repulsed. Rise above the
thing you desire; stand above it and it will seek you.
That is the Law."
We are all seeking to know more about this Law
and the Spirit within, and the best methods for at
taining this knowledge. We want to know how to
get what we want in a material way. We want
spirituality.
Yoga philosophy tells us that the study and ap
plication (remember, study and application) of Yoga
22
THE GOAL OF FREEDOM
philosophy will help us to reach our goal.
When we come to a realization of our real selves
through the application of these philosophic laws, and
meditate upon them, we will advance far along the
path and our goal which is freedom from all desire
will be ours in very truth. We will awaken as from
a deep sleep and find the things which bound us have
dropped away, and we will feel that we are a part of
all that
is,
that we are unified with the Cosmic Mind.
We all want to get in tune with the great uni
versal Spirit, that vibrant power that permeates all that
IS; this power of which we are composed.
There
is
one way to know about God and Self, and
Christ Jesus gave us The Law "Love thy God with all
thy heart and all thy soul and thy neighbor as thy
self." Thyself means The Holy Spirit within you,
which
is
Thyself in Reality. All things are related;
the stars floating in boundless space, the millions of
atoms in the grains of sand, and man are all akin.
Every human being has five physical senses. By
these he
is
made aware of the five aspects of physical
things: seeing, hearing, feeling, tasting, smelling. We
also have
a
mind which
is
divided into several phases
through which we are made aware of the physical
and metaphysical. IWe have the instinctive or sub
conscious mind, the intellectual or conscious, and the
spiritual or sujpexconscious mind; all
a
part of the One
MintTthat dominates al!7~"
Yoga philosophy tells us what these several aspects
of mind are, and teaches us how to use them. We
must remember in Reality there
is
but One Mind, The
Cosmic Mind, God.
"Love thy God with all thy heart and all thy soul
23
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
and all thy mind." This is the first and great com
mandment.''
How can we show that we love God? There is
one supreme method and that is to do something con
structive for somebody. Every day there is something
to be done that will add to the peace of mind, the
comfort, the growth, the happiness of some brother
or sister. Yoga philosophy teaches, dwells upon the
fact, that men, women, children, animals—all created
things are a part of you and you are a part of them.
The lowest protoplasm, the rocky cliffs going into
the depths of earth and raising their craggy heads
heavenward, the tiny jewel-like crystals, the rainbow
arching heaven's dome, the moon, the planets, the stars,
the solar systems, space, electricity, heat, cold, the
roar of ocean's mighty waves, the ripple of brooks,
laughter of children, fragrance of flowers, tinted
clouds, warm golden sun-rays, the majestic Sequoias
with their age-old hearts, the lupine, and the bees
humming around
it,
the radiant hue of
a
deep red rose,
the tints and colors on
a
butterfly's wing, the tendrness
in the voice or handclasp of
a
friend—all, all are a
part of you, and you are
a
part of them. This
is
a
great truth, and we must know that
it
is
true in order,
to see clearly. You cannot help this All which
is
a
part of yourself without helping yourself. But, you
must not think of reward
if
you would advance along
the path. Every time you think
a
good thought and
put
it
in the mind of another, every time you clasp
a
hand with thoughts of love and sympathy, every time
you feed the hungry —be
it
mentally, physically or
spiritually —every time you clothe the poor in raiment
or golden love-thoughts, and do
it
without desire for
24
THE GOAL OF FREEDOM
reward but from love for God and humanity, you get
near to the Divine in them, and help yourself along
the path, and to the Goal of Freedom.
By performing good deeds you will lift the sheaths
from the globe that encloses the Real You, and will
waken to a consciousness that the Light of the Spirit
within you is casting its rays into the consciousness
of others. This light is reflected back to you and by
thinking good, by doing good, and by having good
come back to you, you are thrice blessed. You see the
light within, you give it to others, and it is reflected
back to you. The Masters do this. They live in
effulgent light, are free, and cast a halo of beauty on
all. The seeds of love, of kindness, the seeds of un
selfishness, the seeds of happiness that we sow grow
and multiply by the thousand and reach the minds of
multitudes.
Many of us have said and hear others say, "O
what is the use trying to help people? As soon as
their needs are gratified they forget us and are not
even grateful." This is often true, but what they do
is not our business. Our business is to look within
and see each one as a spirit, God's child, a brother or
sister, and to help him or her now, not tomorrow
or next week, but now. Intolerance, criticism, fault
finding, revenge, anger and all discordant thoughts
must be cast out of our own mind, or transmuted into
love. We must become as little children before we
can enter the Kingdom or reach the Goal of Freedom.
Little children are forgiving, loving, happy. Christ
said "Unless ye become as little children you cannot
enter the kingdom." If we realized more fully what
this meant, if we would rid ourselves of the darkness
25
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
of ignorance, we would rise out of the mortal con
cept of disease, inharmony and sin, and enter into a
childlike consciousness of all good.
We have simply got to empty our minds of ma
terial things of the world, because the world and all
that surrounds us is just what we think it to be. Spir
itual development does not germinate in the seed that
is sown in selfish desires and earthly pleasure.
We are always putting off until tomorrow that
which we should do today, and then the chance to
help someone and ourselves is gone. For example:
someone calls you on the phone, she is distressed, in
deep trouble, and wants to see you and get your help.
Perhaps you are ready to go to a show or party, or
are busy with household duties or business, or have
company. Immediately your old material mind be
gins to say "I don't see how I can see her now, poor
thing, I'm sorry for her but / am busy," and over the
phone you make excuses, put her off, hang up the re
ceiver and with a sigh say, "I wish she would tell her
troubles to a policeman, I am rushed to death." Do
you ever think when you say "I am—that you refer to
God—God is "I." Don't take His name in vain.
Some wit has said: "Man moves in a mysterious
way his wonders to perform;" and you have blundered
magnificently when you shut that woman out. You
have closed the switch to your own spiritual develop
ment and caused many negative thoughts to enter an
other mind. You have caused more trouble, limited
yourself and tried to limit God. She knows you are
a student of philosophy. You are always talking
it,
and she thinks you can help her. So she calls upon
you for help, not some one else, but you, and your
26
THE GOAL OF FREEDOM
old selfish reasoning mind whispers to you that you
are busy and you fall flat. You have done harm to
a soul seeking help. That subconscious mind of hers,
which the Wise Ones tell us is like putty and registers
every thought, gets your thoughts and she says to her
self and others: "There you are, she talks God's love
and philosophy and the first time I ask for help she
puts me off. I don't think much of her philosophy
and she doesn't practice what she preaches."
There is only one way to reach the Goal of Free
dom, and that is by the Path of Freedom. We must
free ourselves from limitations. There is always time
for everything because we are in eternity now, and
eternity has no end, knows no time. We must cast
out selfish desires, put-off-till-tomorrow thoughts, lazy
thoughts, and put in their place helpful, constructive
thoughts, and we must DO IT NOW. Use your phi
losophy, for "philosophy is the lamp of all the sci
ences, the means of performing all work, the sup
port of all duties;" and it is the best method we know
to approach reality. But what system can we use to get
freedom not only for ourselves but for others?
Going back to this woman who wanted your help:
Perhaps she wanted to tell you she was having seri
ous trouble with her husband, son or daughter. My
way would be to see her now. I would try to have her
look deep within, and see her loved ones as perfect
spiritual creations. God's children in reality, and I
would have her see them, and see them myself, as just
that. I would realize they could not be anything else
because they are manifesting here and now; that the
power that causes the manifestation is Pure Spirit, al
ways harmonious, good. I would have this wOman
27
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
repeat over and over until it entered her subconscious
mind. "The battle is not mine but God's." This is a
law that never fails. Faith in God's love, God's
Power —the only Power —wins all battles.
When you are doing this you must shut out all ifs,
buts and cant's, and above all forget the personal ego
and self-pity, the most contemptible thing in the
world. What you want to do is to get rid of a bad
condition, so put your problems in God's care, know
ing He will do the work better than you ever could,
and do it now.
Another method, if your loved one seems to be
going all wrong, is to say: "John, the Darkness of Ig
norance seems to envelop you, but you think you are
doing the best you know how, so go on, learn your
lesson as quickly as possible. You will learn to order
life and its ways from experience, the difficult way—
the way of hard knocks—or you will learn from the
experience of others, which is the easier way. Hard
knocks will teach you to build up a strong character
if you will take them as a lesson and profit by what
they teach. Lessons must be learned either by experi
ence or by the experience of others, now, or at some
future time. The Law of Karma must be fulfilled. If
you are wise, you will try to learn by the experience
of others." When you have said and felt this, let
him alone, free him to work out his own problems. He
is an individual soul and must work out his destiny
alone. Leave him to the care of a loving Father, and
know that the work is being done. Keep your own
mind filled with loving thoughts and send them to
him, and they will do more than all you could ever
say to bring about the desired results, and will lead
■
28
THE GOAL OF FREEDOM
him into the light of understanding.
How to treat yourself: You want to get away
from unhappiness, suffering, inharmony and poverty.
Mary Baker Eddy tells us to "stand porter at the door
and let no thought enter that will not bless or cheer
or heal." This is a very satisfactory way and her fol
lowers prove it every day. "But I can't do this" you
say. / can't limits the "I" within you. / can gives un
limited power to the "I" within you. Express some
positive thought, / can, I will. For many years I was
associated with a man of dynamic force. He did not
believe in God, but was filled with love for all mani
festations of nature, and knew that there was some
vital power, ever active, which controlled them. The
word God did not mean a thing to him, and whenever
the word was mentioned his memory took him back
to Sunday school and church, to hours of torture when
a little boy, because he wanted to be in the woods.
Now this man of dynamic force overcame all objec
tionable things, all sorrow, all adverse circumstances,
even tragic illness, by one positive sentence, "Forget
it!" Whenever any wrong thing came to disturb him
he would say with all his force, "Forget it." Right
there it was put out of his mind. I have seen him con
quer most trying situations in this way. Later, like a
flash of lightning out of a clear sky a thought would
come to him and he would say, "that problem is
solved." He did not say "I have solved it." He always
said "It is solved." Now what solved the problem?
The Spirit within, of course!
Yoga teaches us we must empty our mind before
anything can be put into it—we cannot put water into
a glass already full. This man emptied his mind
29
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
when he said and meant "Forget it" and later, out of
his subconscious or superconscious mind he got the an
swer and it was always the right one. This method
works equally well with the believer or unbeliever. It
is a positive dynamic method, and I use it when I am
taken unaware by some disagreeable happening. It
is the scientific use of the subconscious mind.
When I try to solve a problem and ascertain the
right desire I use the first methods—leave it with God
and know the problem will be solved in the right way.
We realize things by the light of our faith and our
life is measured, not by its successes or by its posses
sions of material things, but by it love! And our love
is measured by its service to all mankind. The hospit
able mind and the open hand and heart blesses itself
and all who contact it. The generous soul has an
angel for a guide at all times.
When we put away intolerance and hard negative
thoughts and put in their place love, peace, health,
charity and prosperity, we show love in love's own way
and are about our Father's business.
Let the mind be in you which was in Christ Jesus,
and make this mind obey the ever active Creative
Spirit. Try to get this principle firmly firmly fixed
within your mind. Everything Is, there is nothing but
the Absolute, always active, always creating, always
urging us to a higher, better understanding, and
pushing us on to the Goal of Freedom which is
reached by knowing our divine nature and by our
service to mankind.
The soul of man is immortal and its future is a
thing whose growth can have no limitations. The
Power that gives life dwells in us and without us, is
30
THE GOAL OF FREEDOM
undying, changeless, eternally good. It is not heard,
seen or felt, but is perceived by those who desire per
ception. Each man is his own absolute law, the dis
penser of glory or gloom to himself, his rewards, his
punishments. These truths are as great as life it
self. "Feed the hungry with them." Thus sayeth the
wise ones.
If God is All-in-All, then we must live in God and
He in us and we must all live in each other in this
eternal Ocean of Spirit. He is the custodian of the
Universal Treasure. He is the guardian of each man
and the fruition of his dreams. He is the self-defense
of life's most vital spark, the inspiration of the in
spired, the poetry of the gods. Without knowing their
beauty or fragrance the roses bloom; without know
ing its illimitable power the Soul is ever seeking ful
fillment, unaware of its own Divinity. Among the
herds of sheep, among the herds of men the Shepherd
is ever watching the flocks and leading them into green
pastures.
When the inner consciousness transcends the
earthly limitations of both the material and the in
tellectual mind, we will rise to a full measure of Free
dom. Remember always that desire and work, or the
faith of the Bhakti, is what brings about results. It
leads us to the green pastures beside the still waters,
where the Lord is our Shepherd—where we shall not
want.
31
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
LIGHT
Before Man's rudest annals were begun.
That tiny star-born beam we dimly see
Launched on its wirtgs t>o span infinity.
Bearer oj knowledge when its course is run
To Earth, a lesser daughter of the sun,
Itself a spark to other suns that be.
Blazing an instant in eternity,
So vast God's scroll. And is it knowledge won
To see unveiled transcendent cosmic laws
That govern fiery Mars and Betelguese,
Yet, blind from light revealed, see not the Cause,
But only finite facts and entities?
Omniscient Wisdom, shield thy awful light
Till mortal eyes can read thy scroll aright!
Archibald Overton.
32
DESIRE: THE KEY TO ADVANCEMENT
Thousands
of years ago the Wise Men of the
Orient met in conclave to determine some Word
that would express the SPIRIT of the Universe. They
found after long and profound silence that there was
one word expressing in nature that is the sacred syl
lable Om or Aum. Chanting this word, one can feel
his mind rising to higher and higher degrees of con
sciousness until they are lost in deep meditation and
become One with the Cosmic Mind. These Wise Men
of the East decided that Aum or Om was the unwrit
ten Word expressing God. Om or Aum can be heard
resounding in all nature; in the mewing of a cat, in the
gladsome Oh, in the welcoming voice of a friend, in
the resounding thunder's clang and in the ocean's roar.
We students of Oriental Philosophy chant this Sacred
Word that we may better tune in with the Infinite
Spirit that Is, that Was, that will ever Be.
When going into the silence, sit with your spine
straight, your feet apart on the floor and your hands
with palms upturned upon your knees. Your whole
body is then in position to receive the inflow of the
Spirit.
As you Om, please try to visualize the Divine Spirit
pouring over you just as the rays of the sun pour over
you. Those among you who have spiritual knowledge,
those of you who are seeking to know the Inner Wis
dom, will see these rays descending and enveloping you
in various colors from the highest to the lowest visible
to man.
We find that silence is the Supreme Power—friend
of the sage, the philosopher, the poet, the seeker after
33
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
truth—in fact, the friend of all mankind. Our own
United States has become aware of this by setting aside
certain hours in which to pray. The public appreci
ates two minutes of silence on Armistice Day; prays in
spontaneity and in reverence year by year and pays tri
bute in the silence to our departed comrades. "Silence
is golden." The wisdom and peace hidden in its sea of
stillness brings light and faith, helps us to understand
the underlying realities of life.
Invoke the silence, bathe in the silence, let its in
visible hush enter your soul. The following poem,
entitled "The Silence," taken from Dhan Gopal
Mukerji's "Visit India with Me" is eloquent with the
thought and splendor of Silence:
"Lo, evening comes on the wings of silence!
Silencefalls over the hills,
Over the full rim of the river,
Into the very hush of the Universe.
Lo, evening comes on the wings of silence.
Tone down your voice of mutiny,
Listen to the evening silence!
Millions of flames, the stars, are lit
For its worship within you.
Bring forth the silence from within,
Pour forth the silence from within,
Pour it on the wounded body of Man
And make him whole.
Listen to the evening silence,
Listen to the hush of the Universe,
Listen to the heartbeat of God."
—Mrinalini Sen.
34
DESIRE: THE KEY TO ADVANCEMENT
Life is a pageantry—forceful, appealing, yet un
satisfying in its present activities—and appears as a
vanished dream as soon as it has passed. We find this
is true: Life is like a dream when memory returns to
the years that have vanished and sometimes we wonder
that they happened, when we think on our experi
ences of the past.
We are all desiring to know the WHY of things.
The Key to Advancement opens many doors that lead
us to an answer to this question, "Why?" Desire, as
piration, patience, tolerance and the Law of Good will
lead us to where we can see Divinity in all creation
from a crawling worm, a fleck of dust, to man.
Long I desired to know the plan
Of how Creation first began:
Lo, I heard a Silent spoken Word
Move in a sea of pearl gray nebulae.
And then there stirred
The Power of God.
Atom moved to atom;
Atom joined to atom,
At once began the physical
Of beast, the sky, the tree.
Atomic force involved in me
And I began my earthly plan
As Man !
By years of desire and meditation on Creation's be
ginning, I was rewarded by the above revelation of
how Creation was begun. It taught me One is All
and All is One. No logic or argument can ever take
this celestial vision from me.
35
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
Friends, desire is one of the most insistent inner
forces that dominates and motivates man. The harder
the lessons of life, the more trying the environment
and circumstances, the stronger should be the desire to
overcome them.
Benjamin Franklin said: "The things that hurt
are the things that instruct." It is through experience
and APPLIED instruction that we advance.
In this world of confusion, complexity and
change every human being has views of existence
which are vastly different from those of his fellow-
men. Each analysis of scientific thought seems to be
diametrically opposed to the orthodox idea of creation,
yet each and every person will one day understand the
TRUTH. Then there will be a blending of all ideas
and opinions into One.
Such mammoth changes are taking place, have
taken place in the last decade not only in the physical
world, but in the mental and spiritual as well, that it
is impossible for any one person or group of persons
to keep pace with all of them. When we meditate on
these changes, we realize it is not possible to grasp
(with the reasoning mind), even a small part of the
progress that Desire has brought into manifestation.
We are weighed down or lifted up with the marvelous
creations of Nature and the development that has
taken place in the mind of man. The things that the
mind has desired and produced are beyond the com
prehension of the ordinary mind, but may be under
stood by the superconscious or the spiritual mind. No
matter how we try to understand life and the lawsj
that govern
it,
sooner or later we meet silence, pro
36
DESIRE: THE KEY TO ADVANCEMENT
found and unanswering. Learn then to enter the
silence and gather from its cosmic center, power for
your soul's growth.
What the future holds in store as man advances
and contacts more fully this Supermind, we cannot
imagine. We do know, however, that we are parts
of this vast mechanism of creation. If we become lazy,
rusty or break, it necessarily follows that we affect the
whole. The negative and destructive agencies in the
world are due to humanity forgetting their birthright—
the Law of God— and following the man-made laws
of selfishness and greed.
We cannot hide our LIGHT under a bushel be
cause it will vibrate, shine and illuminate the space
within the bushel. Eventually the vibrations of Light
will be liberated into space. Because they are com
posed of Spirit, they cannot be hidden under a bushel
of materiality. The inner light breaks out at unex
pected times and illumines all who contact it. A small
spark can kindle a mighty fire not only in others but in
ourselves as well. Treasure this Celestial Fire —the
freedom, preservation and advancement of the world
depends on it.
Mentally man is only what he believes himself to
be and advances only as far as he is capable of under
standing the verities of life. There are many ways
man can be brought into an understanding, but he must
first DESIRE to KNOW, must have aspirations to
mount step by step the golden ladder that leads to
wisdom.
Bhakti Yoga teaches love of the Absolute, liber
ates and advances us; Karma Yoga teaches that work
faithfully performed without hope of reward will carry
37
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
us up to the golden portal. Raja Yoga teaches the
power of the intellect and its logical conclusions. Gnani
Yoga teaches the way of wisdom and is a beautiful
and lofty path to follow. It will rend the veil of ig
norance asunder and by it we can gain the light of
knowledge.
Jesus, the Christ, taught: If we love God, obey
His commandments and have faith, we will be given
all things. "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God, and
all these things will be added unto you" was His
promise. This is Bhakti Yoga summarized.
Man seems to be seeking and desiring everything
BUT the kingdom of God. In fact, man thinks he
should have service, have things presented to him not
on a brass or silver server, but one of beaten gold
with a few jewels thrown in for good measure. Man
thinks the world and heaven and all they contain are
made for him. When he finds he is made for them,
he is confounded and feels abused and cries out in
self-pity.
Yoga philosophy teaches that man can have what
he wants if he desires hard enough and works to one
end. He can, by using the methods of the subcon
scious mind, gain what he wants mentally and physi
cally, but spiritually —no! To gain spiritually one
must use the superconscious mind, the spiritual mind,
and follow the law of discrimination and unending
discipline. It has many manifestations and we go up
and up into the great Unknown as we desire, work
and aspire. "The gods we worship are the gods that
reward us" physically, mentally, spiritually. Christ
Jesus understood the law of All Supply, and that law
works today for those who have found Its Source just
38
DESIRE: THE KEY TO ADVANCEMENT
as it did when He produced the loaves and fishes and
turned the water into wine two thousand years ago.
All philosophies and all religions are a seeking
after God, are ONE in essence. This essence may be
distilled along different paths, yet in aeons of time it
will permeate all paths and condense into the ocean
of pure Spirit, where all humanity must bathe in
passing from the ephemeral changing mortal life to the
permanent and unchanging One, where the Temple of
Wisdom is anchored in the Sea of Reality. We can
not be wiped out of existence, for we are parts of the
mighty whole. We are ever advancing toward the
center, the heart of the Absolute —the beginning, the
end. Everything is involved in this center, is evolved
and projected from this heart of hearts and starts on
its plan of evolution. Everything will be drawn back
into this center of complete silence, complete wisdom
—Nirvana !
We have a portion of this casting-out and drawing-
in power within us. We throw out vibrations that
protect and keep us from harm, and we draw to self,
by vibrations, positive or negative conditions of life;
we function in a small degree exactly as the ALL. "As
above, so below!"
If we would find the real essence, we must turn
from the beautiful and alluring things of life and ex
plore the unseen world of Spirit. If we close our
eyes and look deep within, desire and aspire to know
our limitless power and immortality, we find the Self
of us hidden deep within the heart.
Desire
is,
for an object at hand, near in thought
and viewed as obtainable.
It
is
the architect of man's
destiny on earth.
It
can be obtained
by
the use of the
39
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
subconscious mind or by resigning the results to God.
Aspiration is exalted desire. We are led into its ful
fillment by the road of faith, "Thy will not mine be
done!"
There is a story in the Upanishads that illustrates
this most forcibly. A youth through the sudden anger
of his father is sent to the house of Death. Yama,
the God of Death, is away at the time. Upon return
ing, he finds to his horror that a Brahman youth has
waited three days and three nights without food. Yama
speaks to the youth: "O Brahman, because you, a
guest in my house, have been three days and three
nights without food, therefore salutations unto thee!
and welfare unto me." (Note: 'welfare unto me.') It
is said that to refuse food offered in India is to with
hold a blessing on the home of him who offers it and
to withhold a blessing on one's self. They believe
God blesses them by giving them food and also, by
sharing with another what God has so graciously given
them, they bring a blessing; the partaker of the food is
blessed not only by the family but by the Bright, Efful
gent One, who bestows all blessings. The God of
Death said to the Brahman youth: "Choose three
boons for these three days and three nights spent with
out hospitality." The Brahman youth wished first that
the anger of his father against him might be appeased,
that he would remember him as his son. Yama, God
of Death, answered, "Through my favor, he will re
member thee with love as before." The second boon
the youth desired was to know the Heavenly Fire of
Sacrifice by which heaven and immortality might be
gained. (The orthodox Hindus perform the Fire Sac
rifice to the Immortal Mother-God Kali and to other
40
DESIRE: THE KEY TO ADVANCEMENT
gods whom they adore.) Yama replied: "I know the
heavenly fire! O youth, know that this fire is placed
within the cavity of the heart." The youth considered
the third gift: "Some say the Soul does not exist after
death; some say that it does . On THIS I desire
knowledge." Yama, God of Death, started back in
alarm and told him that the answer to that question
was very subtle in nature and hard to understand. He
offered the youth wealth, jewels, joy, long life, if he
would choose another gift. The youth refused and in
sisted upon an answer to his question.
Yama, God of Death, realized that the greatest
desire of the youth was wisdom and understanding
and seeing himself face to face with a real man, said:
"The truth shall be revealed to you. The Soul is not
born nor does it die; it is not produced from any one
nor does it produce. It is unborn, eternal, timeless, is
not slain when the body is slain. If the slayer thinks
he is slaying or is slain, he errs in both. The Soul is
neither slain, nor slays."
"The Self that lodges in the heart of man is greater
than the great, smaller than the small. The man
whose will is at rest sees Him, is freed from sorrow.
Through the serenity of the senses he sees the glory of
Self. Who but I can know the Divine Self is joyful
yet above Joy. Higher than the mind is intelligence;
higher than intelligence is the Great Self; higher than
the Great Self is the Unmanif ested ; higher than the
Unmanifested is the Spirit; higher than the Spirit there
is nothing —that is the Goal."
Death tried to convey to the youth that 'When
the sun has set, when the moon has set, when the fire
of earth's life is extinguished, the Spirit alone will be
41
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
light.' Why ? Because there is no child of God but has
the Divine—the Changeless One—imprisoned in his
Soul. Each thing that exists has this Divine Self. Death
told the youth, "You are THAT." The youth arose
to receive the boon and Yama, God of Death, said,
"Understand that hard is the way, having the sharp
edge of a razor, but he who understands the nature
of Braham—the Universal —is freed from death."
There is enough wisdom in that little story to keep
us thinking for the rest of our lives. We know that
things do exist; we know that whatever exists arises
from some cause. What the cause
is,
we do not
know! What started the process of earth's evolution
is
the everlasting question all men are asking. We
know there
is
a
law of Cause and Effect, and) from
that law we know nothing
is
exempt. Every manifested
thing
is
changing every second —
is
becoming something
else—from the mighty astronomical bodies to the tini
est atom of life observable through the microscope.
Science finds life and its laws are ever active! Yet,
the Great Spirit that controls
it
dwells in the center
and remains immovable and permanent. The mani
festations we see—the lesser animals, man, the earth
—all life that
it
contains—are ever advancing from
the lower to the higher. What started this advance
ment
is
the unanswered question. We do know, how
ever, that desire was one of the forces. By desire
I
can visualize and use my conscious mind until
I
can
look within and see
a
great center of light and
I
lose
myself.
I
see this light—this power—vibrating at an
enormous rate of speed, going out from me into
space;
I
see
it
changing from the moment
it
starts as
crystal white, changing to blue, yellow, orange, red.
I
42
DESIRE: THE KEY TO ADVANCEMENT
see the same rays of light coming from the cosmic
center of creation. I see a vast sea of nebulae pour
ing forth unnumbered manifestations of life. I see
the Mother Earth giving us what we desire and need.
It is resplendent in beauty, a fit temple for the body
and the evolution of the soul. I feel an urge to get
back into the center of the Cosmic Mind, the storehouse
of all wisdom.
No one has ever been able to draw aside the veil
of mystery and see all of the hidden things of the
Great One. We may live long and earnestly try, but
the eternal enigma will remain unsolved until we merit
by work through many incarnations the reward which
will be Nirvana—All Knowledge, All Wisdom.
The secrets of existence, no man has penetrated be
yond himself. The Persian mystic poet, Omar Khyam,
expresses this thought beautifully:
"Man like a ball hither and thither goes
As fate's resistless bat directs the blows;
But He, who gives thee up to this rude sport,
He knows what drives thee on
He knows! He knows!"
Isis, the Divine Goddess of Eternal Motherhood,
says, "I am all that
is,
all that ever was, all that ever
will be. No man hath seen me unveiled" —meaning
that she has realized the All in All, where male and
female are one.
If
we believe and know that the
loving Father dwells within our hearts, dwells in all
that we hear and see—
if
we would have faith that He
does direct the seeming blows of Fate, we would ac
cept each thing that comes to us with thankfulness,
43
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
knowing it is a lesson that will lead us on to our goal.
If we could but realize this, our life would be as beau
tiful as a night bird's song, as pure as a drop of dew
in the heart of a rose.
Friends, the sky is vestured in turquoise
blue somewhere,
Venus the loving one stands over the
fields somewhere,
Dusk is purpling the forest and the
meadowlands somewhere
The animals sensitive to the call of
spring are seeking their mates in
desertlands somewhere
The stars whisper to the universal world
and eternal refrains of mystery are
sung
From the far reaching palaces of the
Gods.
The moon riding high puts all colors of
the earth to sleep
And all forms seem an illusion in an
illusive world dusty with moonlight.
Mountains drenched in subtle irrides-
cence of sunset are as vanished
dreams in the far away.
These are the qualities of the Eternal,
teaching man his Immortality.
Man is ever trying to get behind the veil that
separates the known from the unknown, yet the lips
of the Sphinx are closed. The Upanishads tell us,
"Desire to Know, awoke Desire." Desire, therefore,
44
DESIRE: THE KEY TO ADVANCEMENT
must be one of the first, if not THE first, projection
from the Godhead. Spiritual Truth guides all Right
Desire.
The Kybalion says: "The All creates because It
cannot help Itself—It is Creation." Creation is only
one of the Manifestations of the All; we have the
same urge, "As above so below." This urge is ever
pushing us on to some creation, some achievement.
The students of Buddha were ever asking the
question, "What is the unknown?" He said, "The
question does not matter for two reasons: first, be
cause our finite mind could not grasp or understand
it, nor are there words to express it; second, our con
cern is to bring ourselves into harmony with the Un
known so that suffering, sickness and poverty may
cease." Buddha was then silent-. If he knew he never
said, but he did say: "The unknown is 'THAT,' loving,
wise, eternal. 'THAT' cannot be described."
Our concern is to bring ourselves into harmony
with the Absolute Principle. We can do this by spir
itual desire —by obedience to the Law of Life—by work
and by recognizing the divine spark within. This light
will eventually guide us into all light and an under
standing of what is meant by brotherly love; then the
brotherhood of man will be ours.
The reasoning mind with conscious effort can build
for us fair castles. If we will let the light of love
enter in, we will see with a clearer vision and the
"windows of the soul" will be crystal clear. We will
transcend the negative conditions of life and have
something permanent upon which to rely.
Everyone is seeking to know more about the re
alities; some to use them for temporal gratification of
45
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
the sense desires; some to further their desire for
power; some for spiritual understanding that they may
better help mankind. People are seeking fulfillment
of these desires by all sorts of occult practices that are
only intended for the initiate. As a result they fall
into poverty of mind and body, with their dreams of
conquest utterly shattered. They cannot succeed be
cause they have not merited success by years of appli
cation, obedience, desire, discipline, determination and
aspiration. There are no short cuts to spirituality,
knowledge or wisdom. One must earn the help of the
Elder Brothers if he expects to successfully travel the
Three-Fold Path that leads to freedom.
Each individual is trying to formulate some religion
or philosophical system in a scientific manner. The
goal of wisdom and understanding ever beckons on.
All are endeavoring to find teachers to help them
up the path. This cannot be done, for the teachers
can only show the way; each one must go up the path
alone—must work out his own Karma. Repeated de
feats seem not to deter man on his onward march. In
fact, he seems more determined, has a stronger, steadier
resolve after defeat, if he is a courageous and sincere
man. Defeat
is,
therefore, not defeat in reality but a
lesson in Life's school that one needs to learn in order
to go in
a
higher class.
If
we will consider this, we will find defeat—
when properly understood —
is
experience. Experience
when properly applied always leads to success. Seem
ingly opposite facts — success and defeat — must be
merged into one, All success! Both are identical in
Nature, the difference being in degrees of vibration.
Defeat
is
overcome
by
success, evil
by
good, darkness
46
DESIRE: THE KEY TO ADVANCEMENT
by light; otherwise there would be no God. There is
a point where opposites meet, where they pause before
merging. This point of meeting is like the pendu
lum at its highest point, pausing before starting on its
downward way; or like the sleep of the soul, where
desire to be born again brings the soul down in an
other cycle of advancement.
When the soul awakens from its last sleep it will
stand at the top of the golden stair, before the jew
elled throne of all good and will enter the Mansion
Christ said He had prepared. 'HE' meaning of course,
the Father, God.
"No more the sun will give thee light by day
No more the sun will give thee light by night,
For God shall be an everlasting Light."
Education is described by one philosopher not as
putting something into the mind but as the turning
'round of the Eye of the Soul so that it can behold
the trudi. This method of advancement and real ed
ucation is intelligent, true, clear and will produce
knowledge and wisdom in the mind because the Eye
of the Soul is ever searching for that which is akin
to its Self —which it needs for its growth.
All men are teachers. Some of the finest lessons I
have learned from life have been given me from men
in the mines, the lumber camps, on the street and the
farms. The opinions of today may be useless tomor
row. We cannot depend on the theories of others.
Unless we find some fixed truth there is no foundation
on which to rest. If everything is in a state of
change—and we know this is true of all material mani
47
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
I
festation—there must be something causing this change
THAT IS changeless and permanent. We see all
things becoming better and more beautiful and more
useful. We see advancement on every side, going
hand in hand with seeming destruction; this is what is
changing the world. Man does not use these wonder
ful gifts rightly, as they were intended—God-given
for the betterment of humanity. He uses them, rather,
to satisfy his personal ego. But there is a law—a
changeless, permanent power —controlling all action.
"As we sow, so we reap" and the world is reaping
thistles today because of selfishness and greed; but
out of this will grow a super race with its face turned
to the Father.
As we transmute the undesirable qualities of the
mind to those that are constructive and desirable, we
ascend to a higher consciousness and lose the mate
rial, selfish desires that bind us to the inferno of pov
erty, disease and indifference.
The true sage and master is the one who has
ceased to desire and aspire. He has transcended the
physical senses, is free from the bondage of desire and
has reached the topmost pinnacle of advancement; he
has climbed the golden ladder of wisdom to where he
hears the stars singing together. By following in his
footsteps, living the life of the sage with mind one-
pointed and centered on the Adorable One, man can
transcend all limitations and desires, can find peace on
earth and in time, move from planet to planet with
wings fleet as thought.
Man can, through aeons of time, reach Nirvana —
the place of all knowledge. From there he can look
upon the ladder of life—see it anchored in the heart
48
SELF— THE MASTER
part of the Absolute, we will go back one day to the
Source of All Supply and become One with the all-
pervading, effulgent One. When we awaken to a
higher state of consciousness and know our birthright,
verily the stars shall sing together and the universe
will resound with the gladsome song of countless
angels.
Mrs. Eddy says "angels are good thoughts." Can
you imagine all humanity being lifted to a state of
consciousness —on the wings of Love—to a state where
it can hear the angels and stars singing together,
filling all space and the earth with divine thoughts set
to music? When this awakened consciousness comes
to us, either in this incarnation or one yet to come, the
Light of the Lord shall shine unto us. We will know
the Real Self and be masters of all conditions. What
are these conditions we are trying to have the Real
Self raster? We name them laziness, inertia, un
truth, debauchery, drunkenness, indulgence, anger,
greed, selfishness —in fact, all the sins to which the
flesh is heir.
I have taken time in telling you about the Self and
the things this Self is to master to be freed, and I
know you are saying "Come down to earth and tell
us how to accomplish all these things, how to free
ourselves."
There is one thing sure; you cannot rid yourself of
negative conditions or anything else by fighting, by try
ing to kill or crush them. If you do try this will
power method you will find the undesired condition
will stick closer than a brother and will become a
seven-headed monster that will crop up at the most
unexpected times and turn on you. The moment you
81
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
fight a condition you give it power and admit its
power. Will-power overcomes for a time only; it is
the still small voice of the Self within that will effect
a complete eradication of negative conditions.
Wisdom and knowledge are better than all the dis
cipline in the world "BUT," you say, "how am I to
get this wisdom, this knowledge?" You do not have
to get
it,
for you ALREADY HAVE IT. What you
must do
is
accept this fact, recognize
it,
employ
it.
Talk to this power within, center every faculty you
have on what you are desiring now, have faith and
the gates will open unto you. Faith and meditation
will open the portal to your Illimitable Self and you
Will be dazzled
by
the Light. Thus sayeth the
Illumined Ones.
If
you think you have knowledge and wisdom
within you, lo, you will soon see material manifesta
tions;
a
still small voice will speak: listen to it.
"How am
I
to get away from the bonds that bind
me?" Very easily; and
it
is
by
Transmutation of Thought
If
you are hating someone —have murder in your
heart —turn your thoughts inside out and upside down
!
Empty your mind. Then fill
it
with good thoughts —
with thoughts of love. "I can't," you say. Yes, you
CAN! You know that God
is
Love. You know you
must be God's child, else you would not be here. You
know others are also God's children —your brothers
and sisters—all heirs of the Father. You must try to
love everyone with your reasoning mind; in reality you
do love everyone, because in reality One
is
All and
All
is
One. Therefore, in loving others you are just
loving yourself. This
is
a
truth—
a
fact.
If
you will
82
SELF— THE MASTER
stop to analyze with the reasoning mind, you will come
to KNOW this wonderful TRUTH.
What causes your reasoning mind to function?
Self—The Spirit within—of course. When you be
come aware of this, your glorious Spiritual Self will
come forth and you will love all peoples and things
because they are a part of you and you of them. Love,
harmony, abundance, peace will be yours because you
will know them as dominant characteristics of your
life—of your real Self, which is the Master. This Real
Master will demand its rightful heritage from the Ab
solute. Remember, "as a man thinketh in his heart
so is he." If you think you have not some certain
thing, of course you haven't it though it may be right
there all the time. You cannot possess a thing until
you become conscious of it. For example:
Early one morning a group of us were standing on
the brink of the Grand Canyon in Arizona. The sun
shone brightly and the canyon was blazing like jewels.
All colors were scintillating on the crags; the depths
beneath were dark and wondrous. Two deer came
over the brink and stood poised upon a crag and
seemed to bless the morning sun. We all stood
silenced and awe-inspired by the mighty revelations
taking place. One man began to sing, "Praise God
from whom all blessings flow," and the others joined
him. "Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost" echoed
back to us from the cavern beneath; what a thrilling
moment! All of us felt as if a Divine benedict-ion had
been given us except one young woman, wearing
shoes with high heels, a flowing veil, and plenty of
cosmetics. She stood beside her mother and this is
what she said: "Oh mother, isn't it all too cute?" It
83
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
was all there: the sublimity, the beauty, the glory—
the veneration of a soore of men and women, but since
she had none of the higher attributes developed, she
could not see nature in her noblest form. To her this
marvelous manifestation was "cute."
If you think you cannot do a thing, of course you
will not do it if you keep thinking "can't." If you
think you can do a thing, the battle is almost won.
All you have to do is to know that soon it will be
made visible if you do your part.
HARBOR NO ILL WILL OR MALICE TO
WARD ANY BEING OR THING! Again you ask,
"How can I do this?" Again I tell you, by Thought
Transmutation. Turn hate thoughts into love thoughts;
ill will into charity; criticism into praise; intolerance
into exaltation! Mrs. Eddy says "Stand porter at the
door and let no thought enter that will not bless, or
heal, or cheer."
In China three monkeys are symbols of deepest
wisdom: Hear no evil, speak no evil, see no evil;
THINK NO EVIL should have a monument all its
own so as to symbolize the greatest virtue of all—
"Think no evil." We could not see evil, we could not
hear evil, we could not speak evil, if we did not
THINK evil. Don't take my word for
it,
try
it
out
yourself. You cannot hear evil, see
it
or speak
it
if
you do not think
it
first;
it
is
impossible because to
you
it
has not conscious existence.
It
is
computed
by
chemical analysis that man's
body
it
worth just 98 cents. What
is
it
then that
makes man ruler over all the earth? What made
Jesus Christ, Buddha, Socrates, Shakespeare?
It
was
MIND
!
an awakened consciousness that was cognizant
84
SELF— THE MASTER
of and used the Cosmic, the Eternal Mind. Each was
a highly manifested portion of the Absolute —the
Source of all Knowledge, Health of all Health, Wis
dom of all Wisdom.
Why do we not try to awaken this Divine Power
within us and be Self Masters not only of the seem
ingly objectionable things of life but also of all things
around us ? Why not draw our supplies from both the
seen and unseen universes?
What is this universe, as far as I am concerned,
that is in me? The I AM! The Spirit that is per
meating every portion of me, the Divine Essence of
God which makes me His child, and binds me to Him
with indissoluble ties.
Christ tells us: "I and the Father are One." Then
He says we are "the children of God and inheritors
of the Kingdom of Heaven;" and further, "the King
dom of Heaven is within." If we believe this, as
many of us do, why do we not act as children of God,
use our divinity, our knowledge? If we will do this,
we will realize there is but One Self, and that Self
can get us anything we want if we will free ourselves
from the shackles of materialism, if we will have faith
and trust.
A piece of iron cast into a fiery furnace partakes
of the quality of the fire. So the mind, put back into
the Divine Self from whence it came, will partake of
Its attributes and recognize Its power.
Christ says to "love your enemies; do good to them
that hate you; be merciful as your Father is merciful;
judge not that ye be not judged; forgive and it shall
be forgiven; give and it shall be given unto you; heal
the sick and say unto them: 'the Kingdom of God is
85
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
come nigh unto you.'
"
Where is this kingdom? It
is within you, without you—everywhere. If you will
think, practice and try to understand these simple rules
given by the Master Jesus you will attain to Self
Mastery.
A. K. Mozumdar, the spiritual teacher, has so
beautifully said: "The man who follows the Christ
within knows the secret of Life; he knows, through
harmony and peace of mind. Man manifests the high
est spiritual power; learns to feel the whole world
with his inner consciousness. It is 'within' that he ad
justs all conditions and wins all victories; he may sit
in a corner of the vast universe, yet, be in touch with
it all."
Man can do this, does do it. We know the life
of struggle and worry is for those who live a godless
life, who let the personal self, the reasoning self, the
material self, dominate.
Man plans, fusses, and grieves because he does not
know, does not follow God's plans. The man who
lives in the God Consciousness, follows the rules laid
down by the Master Jesus, does not seek results. He
HAS results. When man does not expect reward,
when he loves his neighbor as himself, he gains all be
cause he renounces selfishness. Separateness from God
is what brings about all negative thoughts and bad re
sults. God's way is the best way. Be not separated
from your Father and poverty, disease and death will
leave you. Embrace the whole universe. Clothe it
with love. God never fails, and if man is Godlike,
he cannot fail in anything that he may undertake.
If we will look within and behold each person with
loving eyes, we will sense every soul as God's perfect
86
SELF— THE MASTER
creation and will establish vibrations of harmony
which will crystallize into happiness and plenty. Every
door will invite us to enter and every person will greet
us with gladness and good cheer. We will not need
an introduction because we will find every man and
woman a friend. We live to act and to express, and
our outer expression symbolizes our inner state of
mind. There will be no barriers when we express
happiness and love.
If each one of us would feel reacting within our
selves similar influences of light and be able to vision
life more abundantly, we would have joy and health
and a deeper understanding of the Great Reality un
derlying all life.
The lotus lily, emblem of the soul, is born in dark
ness, yet the divine urge within it and its love of de
velopment sends it upward that it may bathe in light.
It opens its petals slowly one by one that its golden
heart may receive the kisses of the sun. Diffusing
fragrance, it sweetens the air and gives forth perfume
and then breathes it in again, thereby fulfilling the
law of evolution and involution.
If we would take the lotus lily for an example and
try to develop from the darkness of ignorance into the
light of knowledge we could not help blessing the
world and would receive in turn its blessing.
There is a divine urge within that sends every
thing upward. The same power is in the tiniest seed
and within every created thing from protoplasm in
vegetable, from animal to the supreme creation—Man.
If we earnestly look up, the divine urge will send our
minds through the muck and mire of sense desires.
Then the dark chasm of ignorance will no longer be
87
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
our abiding place. The seed of life develops to its
full fruition in the light of God, and its fruitage will
not only bless us but all whom we contact. We reflect
what we are and are what we think. If we are bound
hand and foot by self-seeking or by the Karma of past
incarnations we dwell on a lower plane of life. If we
allow jealousy, anger, fault-finding, greed, falsehood,
or other like mental conditions —all the bitter fruits of
ignorance—to dominate, we will remain in the muck
and mire—will encounter rough roads and stone walls
in plenty. Fear and all its attendant consequences will
possess us. We will be unattractive in mind and body,
because we manifest what we think. There will be
many on this plane and on the astral plane thinking
the same negative thoughts, who will be right behind
us prodding us on into sickness, poverty and negation;
such will be a hell of our own making, created by our
thoughts and acts. "Like attracts like" and by our
thinking we set forces into operation that bring the
things we want or the things we do not want.
Students of comparative religions —Christianity,
Yoga, Vedanta, Rosicrucian Doctrine, Theosophy,
Metaphysics and all other esoteric studies —must not
forget that there are chains of personal egotism that
bind them; must remember that all roads, however di
versified they may be at the beginning, lead to the
same goal if followed to the end.
We must look within and grasp the golden cord
and follow it upward until we find the knot that binds
us to our Creator. If we will meditate on these things,
our minds will be filled with peace and our eyes will
look up to the reservoir of all good, to the portal
which we hope to enter. When we can enter this
88
SELF— THE MASTER
temple we will find the Book of Wisdom open before
us and will read, understand, and be far upon the path
of Self Mastery. We will have faces that shine like a
fragrant lotus flower.
We do not have to fight conditions. We do not
have to crush out desire or attachment. We have only
to look within and ascertain our real heart's desire,
look up to where our ideal is enthroned—to the Source
of individuality—and we will get whatsoever we
rightly desire. It is said by the wise ones that our de
sires are already fulfilled for us, and by meditating on
abundance we will sooner free ourselves of material
things. God is All. There is nothing above, below,
without, within, but Infinite Spirit—OM. When we
come into a realization of this either in this life or
some future life, we will be free from all anxiety; we
will find the whole world akin and carry a state of
harmony wherever we go. When we find the Self—I
AM—we are at peace with all mankind.
Stanton Coblentz in his book, The Answer of the
Ages, says: "Let us not resign ourselves to the belief
that we can never know. If there be a beyond where
Wisdom dwells for conscious beings, surely we should
find a means to explore it." Friends, religion is a
seeking after God; philosophy and metaphysics the
means by which we can explore and discover; and
there are always advanced souls ever waiting to help
the explorer.
A mystic soul is standing by your chair,
Though all unseen, I know that he is
there.
89
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
He knows your every thought, both
great and small,
Holds tight your hand, should you grow
faint or fall.
He knows the hours you work, the
hours you pray—
Abides with you through night and day.
A loving soul is standing by your
chair,
Though all unseen, I KNOW that he
is there.
When we are guided by indifference and selfish
ness, we are in a state of constant worry and anxiety
but if we carry a state of harmony within, we find the
whole world akin. This is Self Mastery. We have
found the Self, the I AM, and are at peace.
In a passage from the Bhagavad Gita, Krishna, the
Blessed One, speaking to Arjuna, says: "Know, 0
Prince, that a man being engaged in any or every work,
performing any or all action, with faith and devotion
and confidence in Me, placing his hope and confidence
on Me alone, he shall find the way to Me, and I to
him.
Make Me thy supreme choice and preference, and
with the light of thy unfolded understanding, do thou
think earnestly and constantly of Me, and by so do
ing, shalt thou through my divine love, surmount and
conquer every difficulty which doth surround and en
compass all mortals."
Again we find the Self, mastering through love, de
votion, and surrender to the Absolute. This to me is
The Royal Road —and it leads to perfection.
90
SELF— THE MASTER
"Where seekest thou that freedom, friend,
this world
Nor that, can give ? In books and temples ?
Vain thy search! Thine only is the hand
that holds
The rope that drags thee on. Then cease
lament!
Let go thy hold, Sannyasin bold! Say
'Om tat sat Om!'
"
—From Song
<of
the Sannyasin
by
Swami Vivekananda.
91
IS LIFE A WISTFUL DREAM?
Is life a wistful dream
Whose finality is to dp and die?
Is Man an aPom of pathetic helplessness —
A laugh, a moan, a long drawn sigh
That drops frmn clay to clay?
Is life a wistful dream?
Are birds on lofty tilting wing just birds?
And ocean, just support of glinting fins?
Are these but soulless abject things
That fall to earth and die?
Is life a wistful dream —
Power, adventure, hope and love
And loneliness of so<ul? Whither fly
Ephemeral things that try to prove
The heart can break without a cry?
Is life -a wistful dream?
92
THE INDWELLING ONE
Since
the beginning of time, man has sought to find
The Self. The persevering have reached their goal
without much external help; less strong individuals
have needed a little help, while the weak ones have
required a great deal of external assistance. That is
why all religions are good—they help man to find
himself.
Christ said, "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God
and all things shall be added unto you." And He told
us that the Kingdom is within. To find that King
dom, to get hold of the Master Key which will unlock
the portal, is the important thing.
In the center of man's being there is a place of
absolute silence and when we abide in consciousness
of this, we abide in the very presence of God.
We all realize there is some power greater than
ourselves that is ever working out our destiny. Let
us, then, tune in with this power and deliver ourselves
from self-imposed adversity and limitations. There
are three vital things that help us to gain our hearts'
desire: First, religion, which is a seeking after God;
the intuitional realization of the existence of some
thing higher than ourselves; Second, philosophy, which
is an enquiry after things thinkable and knowable;
Third, metaphysics, which seeks to go beyond the
boundaries of the knowable and thinkable into the
realms of the unthought of and unknown. It seeks
to lift the clouds that obscure the spiritual vision and
to enter the secret place of pure Spirit.
It takes a strong will to make a decision and real
faith to leave the results with God. When we make
93
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
the decision and realize that God is All there Is—ever
present, all powerful, all pervading, all LOVE —we
have found the Master Key that will unlock the door
of knowledge and wisdom and consequent peace of
mind.
Students of the occult know God is not afar off
and that if we are to find the secret dwelling place,
we must have desire. Desire is the first thought that
causes us to progress. If we do not want a thing, we
will never get it! Just wishing for something will
never bring it to us. We must desire with all the
strength of our beings and work toward the end with
the mind one-pointed.
Thoughts are things. All occult students know the
intellectual mind is limited. If we could see astrally,
we could see thoughts. Seeing astrally is a function
of the upper mind. If we send out thoughts that hurt
another, we will get back what we send out—the law
of cause and effect gives evil for evil and good for
good.
If we desire to know God—to have His powers
made manifest more abundantly —to have wisdom to
use them —we must desire GOOD, have faith in
GOOD, faith in our fellow men, faith in our own
God-like powers. If we do this, we will lay the cor
ner stone for that building called "Attainment." If
we hold tenaciously to the thought that "I work and
God works with me," we will then be able to unlock
and hold the deep mystic forces which have the power
to open the lotus buds of reality; then the knowledge
that heaven dwells within will be ours.
When we realize that the Absolute is the only
power that can operate in our affairs, fear and all its
94
THE INDWELLING ONE
attendant evils pass into nothingness. When we are
conscious that all material laws are subservient to the
laws of the Supreme ONE, naught but health, har
mony and prosperity can prevail.
Patience is another of the mighty stones in the
foundation of the building called "Attainment." One
who has faith and leaves his affairs in God's keeping
cannot be impatient. He is at peace and dwells in an
harmonious state of mind. When things go wrong
and move slowly, we must have faith that underneath
all appearances, Infinite Love is upholding us and
enfolding us. Keeping our thoughts in the right re
lationship with the Infinite Law helps us to be pa
tient. By waiting patiently on the Lord, we will gain
our ultimate desires, be they material, mental or
spiritual.
Break bread, O Patience, with me evermore
And make thy dwelling place within my heart.
Upon thy virtues let me climb
The holy path to where Discrimination dwells.
When I find the blooming lotus pool,
Pause there with me awhile:
Help me to know the soul of Man
Like a shining lotus bud,
Arises from the darkness, muck and mire—
Unfolds its petals one by one
In God's effulgent Light.
Break bread, O Patience, with me evermore
And make thy dwelling place within my heart.
In order to arrive at the Goal of Freedom, the
Secret Place of the Most High, we must MEDITATE.
95
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
Meditation, as you know, is a mental process bringing
spiritual unfoldment. All great souls who have ar
rived, who have attained the Christ Consciousness,
have done so through some form of meditation.
Saint Teresa's meditation was based upon the truth
that God is everywhere —
is,
in some special way, in
dwelling within the soul. Meditation consists of gath
ering together all the powers of the soul and entering
an interior world of objective silence. "Meditation
on the heart
is
much better than using the head too
much. Picture
a
shrine of golden light in front of the
physical heart, picture the Master standing therein and
yourself kneeling before Him—put yourself in your
own thought creations." This
is
the message on medi
tation from Saint Teresa.
Saint Augustine tells us he sought God in many
places and at last found Him within himself. "I
sought Thee without and lo!
I
found Thou wast
within the midst of my heart."
Within each one of us
is
a
temple of surpassing
beauty;
a
power,
if
understood and rightly used, that
will help us attain our highest goal. Victor Hugo
has said: "There
is
one thing more beautiful than the
sea, that
is
the earth; there
is
one thing grander than
the earth, that
is
the sky; there
is
one thing superior
to the sky, that
is
the soul of man." No manifesta
tion of nature can be compared in beauty and power to
a
soul that
is
filled with virtue and love for all man
kind. In the midst of this soul-temple of light there
dwells
a
great King who designs to be your constant
companion. He sits upon
a
throne—
a
throne of price
less value and this throne
is
your own heart.
Now comes the greatest problem of all. We, on
96
THE INDWELLING ONE
our part, must have (without any thought of reward)
a steadfast and unflinching determination to give over
to the Absolute this temple and throne. He can never
give Himself entirely to us unless we give ourselves
entirely to Him.
Think of the Divine Life, or the Master, dwelling
within your heart. Speak to Him there; and if you
can, let your mind cease from its objective activities
and contemplate the Divine Guest within.
An adept has told us of a poor peasant who spent
hours in prayer. When he was asked what he was
doing, he replied: "He looks at me and I look at
Him." This man had found the secret of meditation
and prayer and was rewarded by a consciousnesfbf
bliss.
It is said that one day a monk came to Lord
Buddha and asked him to show him the way to hap
piness. "In truth," said the enlightened one, "there
is such a paradise, but the country is spiritual and ac
cessible only to the spiritual." Said the disciple:
"Teach me, O Lord, the meditation to which I must
devote myself in order to let the mind enter this para
dise." Buddha said: "There are five meditations! The
first meditation is the meditation on Pure Love, in
which you must so adjust your heart that you long
for the weal and welfare of all beings, including the
happiness of your enemies. The second meditation is
the meditation of Pity! In it you think of all human
beings in distress, vividly presenting to your imagina
tion their sorrows and their anxieties, so as to arouse
deep compassion for them in your soul. The third
is the meditation of Joy in which you think of the
prosperity of others and rejoice in their rejoicings. The
97
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
fourth meditation is the meditation on Impurity. In
it,
you consider the evil consequences of corruption,
the effect of sin and pleasure and disease—how trivial
often are the pleasures of the moment, and fatal the
consequences."
"The fifth meditation
is
the meditation on Serenity
in which you rise above love and hate, tyranny and
oppression, wealth and want, and regard your own
fate with impartial calmness and perfect tranquility."
A
true follower of the Master does not found his
trust on austerities or rituals, but, giving up the idea of
self, relies with his whole heart upon the Divine, un
bounded Light of Truth, dwelling within the heart.
Man never finds God
if
he continues to sit in fellow
ship with frogs that croak beside some miasmic pool
of discontent, indecision and fear. He must rest his
eyes and consciousness, not only on the Divinity
within, but must look into the realms of space. Let us
seek for the Indwelling One in Nature.
If
we will
go into the forest in early morning we can find
in
every bush and tree
a
burst of song; birds will be
making invocations to the sun, who, with life and
health comes without effort each morning that we may
see the beneficient Spirit of the Beloved in the face of
a
flower.
We all have
a
cherished desire that we hope to
see bloom and fruit!
It
may turn out to be
a
serpent
in the brain whose poisoned fangs will sting.
It
may
be
a
lotus flower, redolent with love, that we press
close to the heart. Let us not dull the senses as with
wine. Let us rather address ourselves to the Light of
all Lights, which
is
beyond the sun. Through the dark
passages of night, birds wing to sleep. Through the
98
THE INDWELLING ONE
dark passages of experience, souls seek the light . . .
nay, find the light.
A spider in her web hangs where the moonlight
drapes the trees, stings the imprisoned moth to satisfy
desire. Man comes back and ever back through aeons
of time to satisfy desire of body and mind; through
desire is unfolded to him the knowledge that reincar
nation brings.
A song of triumph in matchless rhythm and har
mony comes from Mother Earth and helps the soul to
grow. On wide wings of love, it opens the portal to
Eternal Light. Oakland's poet, Jessica Pryse Arthur,
has beautifully expressed the soul's seeking in her
occult poem "The Initiation":
"Down into the pitch black lips
Of unplumbed depths, a river slips,
And daring souls may there embark
Upon a cruise within the dark.
About a curve their boat will wind,
And then, those daring ones go blind.
They feel the icy draught and clammy breath,
As strange as death.
They hear the stealthy lash and lap
As black waves on black boulders slap,
While weird uncanny echoes call
In liquid notes from wall to wall.
As unseen currents bear them on—
Where sense of Time and Space is gone
—
Through narrow corridors, until
Beside a ledge, their boat is still.
99
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
And blind as bats they land, to grope
Along the up and dripping slope—
In quaking silence there to stand
Each seeking out a helping hand.
Ah, gradually a strange new light
Renews for them the sense of sight!
Not light of bulb nor lamp
Nor phosphorescence of the damp,
Nor the light of stars or moon
Nor morning light nor glare of noon,
But the concave dome above about
In convolutions glimmers out
With crystal light that seems to grow
Into a cosmic astral glow!
The very walls of space are then encrusted
With jewels to the gods entrusted —
Rubies, opals, diamonds, set in gold
Of imprisoned sunbeams, aeons old.
Within this universal shell
A billion reborn souls now dwell,
A billion bodies gleaming white—
Whose substance is God's Spirit—Light."
Swami Bhagwan Bissessar says, "Keep your feet
on the ground, your eyes upon the stars and your
thoughts on God. You will then find the Light and
the Substance of the Light—The Indwelling One."
Aum—Shanti—Shanti—Aum.
100
THE INDWELLING ONE
In sweet abandonment of self
I saw Life's river come and go
In endless rhythm at my feet.
In harmony with Nature's flow
My s,G<ul embraced the heart of her,
Felt the movement of the stars.
And claimed its unity with GOD.
101
EXPERIENCE
SOUL
I sprartg from out the singing stars
And brought their melody with me
To sing within a Mother's womb.
BIRTH
I felt the heart-beat
<of
her love—
/
felt the heart-beat
ofthe Lord
As
I
became
a
child of Earth.
DESIRE
I
plucked
a
fragrant red, red rose
And pressed
it
to my selfish breast,
It
had
a
thorrt that pierced my heart.
FRUITION
1
picked a lily, waxen, white,
Within its calyx lay
a
PEARL
Whose luster brought me peace.
102
REINCARNATION
■
The
Standard Dictionary says that "Incarnate"
means to embody in the flesh, to assume a human
nature and body. We have these vivid examples: the
Spirit of God incarnate in Christ Jesus, in Buddha, in
the Illumined Masters; the spirit of art incarnate in
Leonardo da Vinci, Titian and Raphael; the spirit of
electricity in Edison; the spirit of poetry incarnate in
Shakespeare; the spirit of music incarnate in Beethoven,
Wagner, Bach; the spirit of war incarnate in Napoleon
the Ambitious; the spirit of cruelty was incarnate in
Nero; the spirit of drunkenness, debauchery, crime,
selfishness incarnate in so many men and women of
today. The advanced souls of Shakespeare, Edison,
Leonardo da Vinci, Edison, Bach and all of the great
ones were once as deep in sin as the apparently un
fortunate ones of today. I say, apparently. In reality,
each was learning his lesson and reincarnation was the
path of the soul leading to unity and peace. Christ
came a virgin Soul direct from the Father. His Soul
was never in the cycle of reincarnation according to
Sacred History.
Would God be a just God if these we call "unfor
tunate" were to go on and on forever in their mad
ness and wickedness and unhappiness? You know
He would not be just; you know they do have their
chance. Reincarnation gives them their opportunity to
advance and get rid of the spirit of seeming wicked
ness that is incarnate in them in this life. When we
speak of the spirit of war, art, music, etc., we do not
mean the Spirit of the Absolute. We refer to the
spirits of desire with which these men were incar
103
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
nated and carried to extremes of selfishness or to the
heights of advancement on this earth plane. Do not
get this confused with the Spirit of Reality. There is
but One Spirit—perfect, supreme, filling all space and
creation. In the end all of the spirits or entities—no
matter by what name we call them —will evolve into
the One Spirit, the Absolute.
Reincarnation gives each and every soul a chance
to grow. We grow no matter what we do! The in
finite urge within makes us go forward. At times we
may seem to be growing crooked and dwarfed like a
stunted tree, but the Divine life within is ever straight
and perfect, ever urging us on to seek something bet
ter. That something is God whether we are conscious
through previous incarnations. We carry back Karma
—the law of cause and effect.
Education and progress along material lines are a
matter of mind and desire. Education along spiritual
roads is a matter of urge, an unsatisfied hunger that
material things do not satisfy. Both are brought over
to the present life through reincarnation. The mate
rialist grows by experience; the spiritually minded, by
meditation and prayer.
All advancement has been brought about by think
ing, desiring, seeking. Revelation or knowledge of
things comes from years of constructive, systematic
thinking and seeking along whatever line of endeavor
one may be working. The results, the wonderful
achievements, have not come about in just one lifetime.
They are the results of untold reincarnations. The
urge onward is the Spirit of God—ever active, ever
progressive. We are being led step by step out of
crude, primitive ways into a higher state of being both
104
REINCARNATION
in the material and spiritual worlds.
We have periods or cycles of rest, periods or cycles
of activity. Nature has a primary law, that of im
posing rest on all creation. A period of rest or sleep
occurs on other planes. There is a pause
—a rest—of
the pendulum between inhalation and exhalation; also
is there a rest for the soul before reincarnating, that
is: after it has left the body before it enters another.
Nature, the Divine Mother, provides a rest—the close
of one day and the beginning of another; an ocean
wave seems to pause, to rest, just before it lunges to
break. It is said by the sages of mysticism that we
have a long period of sleep and rest before we are re
incarnated into an earthly body. They tell us that de
sire to create, to finish that for which our soul longs,
causes us to reincarnate over and over again until our
earth desires are satisfied.
At times we get so tired of all activities that we
long for a change, for death, even, to release us. Then,
something comes up; we contact new environments,
new scenes, have new ambitions and so begin anew to
plan, to work, to create. It is the urge of the soul
trying to carry on to perfection in each of us. v7e could
not get away from it if we would. It is the real self
urging us, leading us on; it never falters.
There is a divine, eternal, ever active law of un-
foldment. Whittier beautifully expressed this law's
working in these two lines:
"Step by step since time began
We see the steady gain of man."
The whole world is seeking for a clearer under
105
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
standing of the laws that govern all. Swami Bissessai
tells us the reason for this is that the Masters are re
incarnating and coming back to earth to awaken the
consciousness of Man to his birthright, his Oneness
with God.
The Masters who have had Illumination tell us
that the only reasonable explanation to all the seem
ing mystery is reincarnation. The different degrees
of instinctive, intellectual and spiritual minds of man
kind are due to reincarnations and the degrees of effort
we have put forth in our earth lives.
God functions in two ways in the universe and in
the individual. He is the knower of the universal
whole. We, the knowers in a fragmentary way, must
make an effort to know God. We should perceive
Him in all creation as illimitable and supreme. By
thinking, contemplating, meditating, by Om-ing, we
can lift the soul to where the Divine is independent
and imposes no limitations. God gives us our oppor
tunity to experience all things and in the course of re
incarnations, over aeons of time, we will become all
wise. How are we going to know things if we do
not experience them? How are we going to experi
ence things if we do not have a body or something
with which to work? How can we learn all things in
the brief space of one lifetime? No one has ap
proached such a state of knowledge yet in a lifetime.
There must be a cause for and a reason why we desire
to do things, experience circumstances and work! The
Kybalion forcefully expresses this thought: "Every
cause has its effect, every effect has its cause; every
thing happens according to Law. Chance is but a name
for Law not recognized. There are many planes of
106
REINCARNATION
causation, but nothing escapes the Law of Cause and
Effect."
Shakespeare says: "All the world's a stage and men
and women merely players." If we play the game of
life according to the best that is within us—according
to our highest ideals, we will be swayed by positive
thoughts, good environments, good surroundings and
will live in harmony with man and nature. If we listen
to the "still, small voice," we will tune in with the
great principle of soul growth —will go higher and
higher mentally, physically, spiritually and will rein
carnate on a higher plane.
If we are dominated by low environments and nega
tive conditions, low surroundings and base desires, we
will reincarnate on a slightly higher plane than the
present one, because ALL desire must be satisfied
(unless we are advanced enough to prosper by the ex
periences of others, rise above desire, or transmute it
into higher things). When we have satisfied desire,
we know just what the experience is worth to us. If
we do wrong things the "still, small voice" tells us
not to do, we suffer; but we gain by the experience if
we are wise. If we do good, obey the voice within,
we have peace and joy. In either case we gain some
thing. We cannot go backward; in reincarnating, no
matter what we do, we gain—be it much or little. All
things are links that connect and bind us on the road
of attainment and are used for definite, certain forms
of our development. If we desire material manifesta
tions, we must satisfy the desires before we can attain
freedom; if we desire something and do not get
it,
it
clings to us and we are not free.
Past incarnations shape the currents of the thoughts
107
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
and actions of today and the flow of the soul in this
present life will shape the incarnations yet to come.
We change and the world changes; as we evolve
to higher and higher levels, so evolves the world with
us—this is the consistency of Truth which helps us to
live a more ideal life.
The varied, irridescent aspect of life and thought
is ever in the becoming and the going ... to become
again. We paint a lovely picture today . . . tomor
row the vibrations of the sun change and we could
not duplicate the exact lights and shadows if we
would. We are in one continuous stream of change,
yet beyond the stream is the Source of its supply —
silent and supreme; it ever flows toward the Cosmic
sea. When we become conscious of this universal, un
changing Source, we have greater assurance and are
better able to analyze the modes of human action and
experience. We come to realize more clearly that all
the changes are fundamentally right and are for the
uplift of the soul.
The chemical elements in nature are ever being
transmuted, changed, into innumerable combinations.
We see chemical action on the flowers, trees, beasts
and Man. We see rays of the sun manifesting in
colored fruits and fragrant flowers—yet the elemental
Substance that colors them is ever the same.
Oranges do not change to pineapples nor do sun
flowers change to lilies. So it is with the spirit of man,
which is ever changeless. The ever-changing demand
of the soul to reincarnate from one desire to another is
the Spirit of God manifesting. It is silent materially,
yet speaks to us with a thousand tongues that we are
too deaf to hear. We let a changing, ephemeral, con
108
REINCARNATION
fused, dynamic sense-desire separate us from God.
Then we wonder why there is disease, inharmony and
death of aspiration in the world.
We are all composed of the same fundamental
substance but we are all on different planes of devel
opment because of the law of Karma—cause and
effect. Human action is different in each individual.
Each mind intellectually interprets life in its own way;
yet, reality remains ever the same. What we think
and do today measures our joy and sorrow tomorrow.
What we do or leave undone this year will be the
measure of our harvest next year and will influence the
crop of grain or weeds yielded in our next incarnation.
We are interwoven with the elemental rhythm of
life. The wind blows the tree tops rhythmically and
sings Om. The ocean, the forests and man sing a
song. The whole sweep of nature, the whole expres
sion of the universe is harmony and rhythm. We
should meditate on harmony and find why we let in
harmony break the rhythm of the soul. Reincarnation
gives us the opportunity of finding in meditation the
deeper and higher harmony of the soul. At such
moments we will be able to hear the sacred syllable,
Om, intoned in every song of nature. We will hear
it in the deepest music of the sea, in the very heart
of thunder as it rolls, in the tinkling laughter of chil
dren and in the OH***m of painful age. If we listen,
we shall hear it spiral away and be lost in the im
mensity of space. It is a cosmic call to man and
marks the rhythm of his life, a rhythm that begins with
the graceful movements of the hands and the dancing
steps of a little child. It is in the accentuated
rhythmic movement of the earth rotating on its axis,
109
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
the planetary movements around the sun. All of this
rhythmic harmony symbolizes the harmony that should
be the paramount issue of life; yet, man as a whole is
utterly unconscious of it.
Moon-shadows sweep the earth, yet no dust is
stirred. The moon reflects in the still lake. There is
no perceptive movement, yet it disappears across the
mountain and there is no trace of it on the water.
It is ever so with this ephemeral life. A little while
we cast light on those we love and on those who love
us; then we are lost in the aeons of reincarnation,
leaving a few pounds of dust on the earth, a few
memories, a few truths to mark the path we trod.
Religion, philosophy and metaphysics are built
upon the solid piers of divine love and uphold the
bridges that all must cross in order to arrive at the
fount of reality. Through reincarnation these bridges
will be crossed by the soul and it will find thereby the
underlying substance of Truth.
To reach this goal we must go through a building-
up process of discipline and self-direction. Only the
realization that we are in Spirit a part of the ALL will
bring liberation from the necessity for reincarnation
and Karmic Law.
There is ever but one Law giver—God. There is
ever but one goal. At times we plunge into bypaths
of physical and mental decadence and negation
whereby we break the rhythm of the on march of the
soul. Nevertheless, we are on the cycle of unfold-
ment, are in the Cosmic Mind whether or not we are
conscious of the fact. "SAT Twam ASI!: Thou art
THAT," say the Wise Ones.
The sun sinks into the ocean and leaves no ripple.
110
REINCARNATION
The winsome day melts silently into night. Darkness
steals over the earth and makes no sound! The fire
of meteors flames the sky and involves in ether waves
softly. Man works and loves, plays, prays and dreams
of prophetic ecstasies and long for angel visitants to
tear the veil of ignorance from his eyes. He would
rise from the scenes of the sea and meadowland to
the hills and mountain tops that he might better view
the vistas of the earth and sky. He tries to under
stand both the unseen and the seen and the law that
underlies all life; yet he goes with halting steps of
mind and body upon these wondrous journeys. He is
held back by the law of cause and effect, pain and
pleasure; not knowing advancement and retreat are
sisters in the Karmic law.
No lover ever seeks union with the beloved more
ardently than does the bright, effulgent Father seek
union with His children.
Why should we lose ourselves among the pinnacles
and grey mist of misunderstanding and selfish desire,
when the whole glory of human and universal love lies
before us? Why do we not "dart like a swallow on
the wings of spring" and find the peace of heaven in
the mansion that is already prepared for us—a mansion
within the recesses of our own hearts where harmony
forever dwells. It takes transmutation of thought to
change negation and inharmony into peaceful, con
structive, healthful thoughts. It takes discipline of
body and of mind to grow the soul.
Breaking the chrysalis of astral sleep a winged
Psyche emerges and in a wonderful rhythmic dance of
life comes out through the cosmos, through darkness,
through light, through snow clouds and flowery
111
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
meadowlands, through starry worlds and seas of neb
ulae, up and out through time . . . and hinds the
Beloved One coming down from the heavens, sees Him
rending the mountain of discord with an avalanche of
Love; sees this Love turn deserts into flowering fields
and desolation's sorrowful face alight and wreathed in
smiles; sees in operation life and death, that death is
LIFE ... a name for Immortality. Then shall be
learned the mystery of love. "Swiftly arose and spread
around me the peace and knowledge that passes all
arguments of the earth and I know the hand of God is
the promise of my own and I know the Spirit of God
is the brother of my own and that all men ever born
are also my brothers and the women my sisters and
lovers and that a kelson of the creation is love."—
Walt Whitman's beautiful, elevating words.
Such is the power of Love seeking through reincar
nations; such the spiritual union and understanding.
It builds friendships and family on earth and a perma
nent peace for the soul that is not of time or place.
This one life is not long enough to get what we
want. It will take many lives to wipe out our desires
and to work them out through Karma. If there were
no such state as reincarnation, how would we get or
do what we want? How can the soul grow into
Nirvana if we have no vehicle for it to use? How is
it that we who understand the Yoga teachings often
cause many to think we are mentally a "little off"—
worshiping idols, chasing vain phantoms? With all,
it is simply degrees of advancement, understanding.
How am I—just one body and soul—ever to become
the writer of occult novels and books, explore un
known regions of poetry, if there is no reincarnation ?
REINCARNATION
I cannot accomplish it in this life's short span.
I believe there is reincarnation —"Lord, help thou
my unbelief" in all things not understood. "O Thou
the Absolute, Thou the Infinite, Thou the only Re
ality, give me wisdom and faith." That is the song
of my soul: "wisdom and faith" to open the portals
to a realization of ALL God.
My friends, do not try to reason it out. Remem
ber we are on the plane of human mind. Let us be
lieve what the advanced souls tell us through their
enlightenment. They are beings imbued with such
attributes and power, that the mind of man in his
workaday world cannot even dream of—much less un
derstand—the wisdom they possess.
The Illumined tell us that they were once as we
are in the scale of evolution and even lower. How
could they be what they are now, had they not had the
experiences of reincarnations? Some of you ask: "Why
do I not remember what happened—all that happened
—at the age of ten, twenty, thirty?" You cannot do
it,
but such knowledge
is
in your storehouse of mem
ory, in your subconscious mind. What you are today
is
due to all you learned during these intervening
years. Can the man who falls into rebirth recall his
former births? Buddha
is
very explicit on this sub
ject. He says: "If
a
man desires to call to mind his
temporary state in days gone by, so that he may say
'such was my name, my family,' that object CAN be
attained
by
the state of self-concentration.
If
the mind
be fixed on the acquirement of any object, that object
will be attained." Darkness departs and light comes.
So
it
is
with reincarnation. You are as and what you
113
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
you are because of that which you have learned in your
past lives.
Christ said, "Unless you become as little children,
you cannot enter the Kingdom of Heaven." Then He
said, "The Kingdom of Heaven is within you." Let
us become as little children. Let us listen to the wis
dom and advice of the great souls who are trying to
teach us Truth. There is a garden of light within the
heart of everyone. This garden cannot be despoiled
by lesser sensations and desires. The tree of life
stands in the garden untouched by desire; and light
is given it by the Spirit of God. It is not subject to
change or phenomena for it contains ALL within its
self.
The dawn is here with its seven-fold light. The
seven principles of man: physical body, astral body,
Prana —vital force, instinctive mind, intellect, spiritual
mind, Spirit, are becoming understood along with re
incarnation, which is our only hope of advancement.
It will bring us to Nirvana.
No matter what happens, if we are in the depths
of misery and negation, lo . . . He is there. If we
reach the heights of human happiness, lo . . . He is
there! We cannot, if we will, get away from the Abso
lute. He is the supervising intelligence of our physical
state. His power is driving us on and on to higher
states of perfection, to the transcendental states that
we cannot cognize with the reasoning mind. We know
by experience that the sorrows, sins, sufferings, troubles
and doubts are not stone walls for us to beat our
heads against to destruction; we know they are step
ping stones to a higher realization of the illimitable
self that is a part of every one of us. Mary Baker
114
REINCARNATION
Eddy said that Sin is just an absence of truth or is
the lack of good and that eventually through suffer
ing, it destroys itself . . . that more Truth may take
its place.
Every experience we have is for good. Soul growth
goes on and on. We grow tired of sin, disease and
death. We long with a deep soul-yearning for free
dom. Eventually through aeons of time we become
aware of our oneness with the Father and through fur
ther aeons of time we reach Nirvana.
Nirvana is not, as some suppose, the end of all
things. It is the awareness, the consciousness, the
knowledge of All that is . . . not a wiping out of
self, but rather a KNOWLEDGE of self—which is
quite different. This knowledge ends reincarnation,
unless the individual desires to come back in the in
terest of mankind.
The Standard Dictionary also says, "Reincarnation:
a re-embodiment of the soul in successive human ve
hicles; the becoming of an Avatar." 'Avatar' means the
descent of Deity into incarnate existence, or of the
soul into cosmic life. Manly Hall is an avatar. "Trans
migration is the passing of the soul from one body
after death into another," Max Muller says. "There is
no trace in the Vedas of the transmigration of souls
from human to lesser animal or creature bodies. This
is supposed to be a feature of Indian religion, but it
is not true."
Remember! Reincarnation is a RE-EMBODIMENT
of the soul in successive human vehicles, while trans
migration is the passing of the soul from a human
body, after death, to another human body; it is not
the passing of souls of man into lower animals.
115
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
We all know that there is a Center of Absolute
power and wisdom which is the life of man, the life
of all life. We know we are partakers of this life
in different degrees of unfoldment; no matter what
we do, we are ever growing. We know that we can
not, nor can any manifestation of nature, be entirely
wiped out of existence; it is merely CHANGE in ac
cordance with Divine law from one form to another.
There is a dynamic, vibrating something which ema
nates in the center of pure Spirit ... It IS ... we
ARE.
The reasoning mind sees everything moving toward
a different manifestation —yet, kind to kind: the rose
to a rose, man to man, a horse to a horse. Is it rea
sonable to think the soul stops with the disintegration
of the body? Even the body fertilizes the earth! Its
fine particles, in the processes of chemical change and
reversion, give sustenance to trees, flowers, plants. Ani
mals eat the plants, man eats the animals and the
refuse of both is again reverted to Mother Earth. This
process may not be called reincarnation, but it cer
tainly is recreation —perpetual and eternal.
The Spirit, the Power, within and without all of
this creative activity is unchangeable; it manifests in
the lowest animal, in man, rocks, crystals, trees, flow
ers and the tiniest atom. This is the reason that the
whole world—the entire system of worlds—is akin.
Everything we perceive is a manifestation in a differ
ent rate of vibration, on a different cycle of unfold
ment, periodicity.
When we can look within and see the spirit in all
material forms and realize that all is composed of
the same essence, we will begin to understand the
116
REINCARNATION
meaning of The Brotherhood of Man. Then, will we
know our close relationship to everything we can cog
nize with the reasoning mind ; will be awake to the fact
that each one of us has a spiritual mind. The "I" of
us will be known as the Pure Spirit within. The "V
of us IS. Were this not so we would not be here—
see, hear or talk to each other.
We realize we are here for a purpose, a Divine
purpose. The highly illumined souls answer the ques
tion, "Why are we here?" by saying, "YOU ARE! HE
IS!" Truth brings bliss, happiness and peace of every
kind; we will find this truth somewhere in eternity.
We can gain this truth only by experience; we can
get it only by coming back again and again. Each time
we reincarnate, we will be, are, a little farther along
the Path—a little nearer the Center of All Light, the
Spirit of All Truth; nearer the Absolute, the Holy
One which IS . . . Omnipresent, Omnipotent.
The marvelous successes of Henry Ford are ex
plained in his own words: "I have never done any
thing of my own volition ; I was always pushed by in
visible forces. Reincarnation is the essence of all
knowledge! Until I discovered this theory, I was un
settled and dissatisfied."
In one of the great Greek dramas by Euripides,
which was translated by the Greek scholar, James
Pryse, associate of Madame Blavatsky for more than
fifteen years, we read: "It is not my belief in, or wor
ship of, the many gods, not even when one of them
comes to be regarded as one God, that man gains eman
cipation from the earth-life; nor does he upon death
of his physical body pass into a state of eternal bliss.
Whatever religion he may adhere to, whatever dreams
117
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
he may indulge in during the dream-state after death,
he must certainly return to earth whether he 'believes'
in reincarnation or not. He is caught in the mighty
current with a long series of earth lives behind and
many others yet to come. Only two courses lie before
him, and he may make his choice of them. He may
move along slowly with the vast herd of humanity,
who will reach perfection only after many mundane
existences, or he may ascend by a short cut difficult
to climb. By perfecting his lower nature and putting
forth all his intellectual and instinctive powers in the
pursuit of Spiritual Wisdom, aspiring to attain the
mystic union with the Free Father, his own deathless
Self." There, in short, is the whole theory of re
incarnation.
Rejoice and be glad, for within you is The Light.
When you reach the source of this Light—the source
of all reality, you will reach Nirvana and be free from
reincarnations. Absolute knowing will be yours—thus
sayeth the Wise Ones.
Aum—Shanti—Shanti—Aum .
118
1
WHILE READING THE APOCRYPHA
/ saw a bright vision; Walking out on the sea,
Was a man clothed in glory, and he beckoned to me.
Much bewildered was 1, and trcubled in mind,
Then he spoke gently to me of things I divined,
"O Daughter why tarry? The goal is so near,
I beseech you to enter, there is nothing to fear.
Renounce O beloved, yc<ur separate will,
Hold fast to the Substance, so sacred, s& still:
You are favored my Daughter, find God while you
may,
Lo! I cmne in the spirit, to show you the way."
119
RELIGION AND FREEDOM
Religion
and philosophy teach the unity of God
and man; they teach not merely the supremacy
of power and will.but a supremacy of love and wisdom.
They teach God as a Father, not as a mere king.
We cannot understand the nature of a phenomenon
or the manifestations of nature, when we contemplate
them by themselves. If we look at them in their rela
tion to other phenomena, other manifestations of the
same kind and quality, each becomes clearer in con
trast to the other. So it is with comparative religions
and philosophies; they seek to do justice to the relig
ious tendencies of all mankind, knowing that they are
provindential, that each and every one helps to uplift
man to a better, higher life.
To worship some deity with ceremonies, sacrifices
and prayers, to worship the splendid and useful ob
jects in the natural world—the sun, the moon, the stars,
to pay tribute to the rivers, the oceans, the trees, the
flowers—and not to be ashamed to reverence the God-
given life in creation from protoplasm to man—is to
recognize a nameless something that cannot be ex
pressed in words. The need of looking up, the search
ing within, the soul of us always seeking some unseen
power higher than ourselves, seems to come to us
with birth, clings to us through life, and helps us to
realize the Divinity within all manifestations of na
ture. Reverence and longing for the Absolute, for
something beyond the mundane life, brings us to the
same conclusion: that there is a Some Thing beyond
this finite world. We all try to understand this some
120
RELIGION AND FREEDOM
thing, to penetrate and appropriate it to our own use
either to gain material objects or spiritual under
standing. We want to be free from all negative con
ditions of life, not realizing that we become free only
as we become conscious of God. St. Paul teaches that
all nations dwelling on the earth may not only seek
Him but find Him. When we find Him we find
freedom.
We become free when pride, jealousy, sensitive
ness, intolerance and selfishness vanish. We become
free when we forget color, race, nationality, social
fads and a sense of separateness and superiority melts
in the consciousness of universal love.
When we are free, we do not look down upon
the oppressed and heavy laden, the injured humanity;
we look within, and the Christ consciousness within
us finds the Christ Spirit within them and our thoughts
reach out to them without hatred, censure, malice or
judgment.
When we become free, we look at a piece of rock,
a tree, a flower and know it is one of God's methods
of speaking to us. When we address them they do
not answer in audible words, but if we attune our ears
to the rhythmic beating of nature's heart, we find a
response to our questions, hear the still, small voice
speaking in the language of God.
In our consciousness of All God, we find our as
surance and freedom.
When we are free, we find God very near, we
know He is our friend, our counsellor, our help-mate.
"If we would have God for a friend, we must be a
friend to God. We can best do this by doing some
thing to help some of His creatures, by realizing the
121
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
brotherhood of man. When God is with us, who can
be against us?"
When we are free, we do not hesitate to tell Him
the innermost secrets and desires of our hearts; and
if we are sincere we find Him an "ever present help."
When we are free, we meditate and find God, not afar
off, but near. All of our natural desires become di
vine desires. Because we recognize the Allness of
God, we can see Him in the souls of mankind and in
the tiniest grain of sand. Harmony becomes ours and
we live a life of universal comradeship. We do not
need temples, churches, cathedrals or synagogues, in
which to pray to the Absolute; we pray everywhere
and at all times.
We pray under the blue dome of night and watch
ing the myriad stars whirling along on their path of
glory, are silenced by the majesty of the Divine Power
that controls their whirling; and when we Om, our
minds are lost in the mystery of
it,
and we become
One with The All
.
When we see storm clouds backed up with thun
der, and lightning flashes around their edges; when
we hear the storm-gods bombard the earth and see
the grass drink up the rain-drops; when we watch the
ocean waves tumbling in long green white-capped bil
lows—see them dashing against the rocky shore —hear
their deafening roar as they break and recede, we hear
the voice of God speaking in
a
language too powerful
for words. When we see the smile upon the face of
a
sleeping baby, we see Him, manifesting in sublime
innocence. When we see some lad and lassie sitting
hand in hand, we know, like mating birds, their souls
are awake and singing all the while
a
love song, filling
122
RELIGION AND FREEDOM
the earth with a sweet cadence that mounts to the very
zenith of happiness. Thus we see God manifesting
in pure joy and hope. When we see a young mother
bending over her first-born, her star-lit eyes moist with
gladness, we see God manifesting as Divine Love.
When we meditate on father, mother, wife; chil
dren, friends, we have a wide range of possibilities
and all of God's creatures become as one.
The easiest method of gaining freedom is to medi
tate on God, on Om, until lost in the spiral song of
immensity, realizing that the mind cannot run in any
direction and not find Him. Here is much food for
reflection: 'The mind can not run in any direction and
not find Him.'
In this world of All God, we should concentrate
on Him and His many manifestations; all are Divine.
When we will do this we will find He manages all
of our battles and solves all of our problems and we
abide in peace.
If we will go into the silence and meditate on God
we will find all of our natural desires are divine de
sires, and we become free from the entanglements of
materialism. We become free souls within this pow
erful message of truth. We find comradeship with
the lower animals, and the highest man. When we
become conscious of life and intelligence indwelling
within all objects, we commune with the Absolute and
find freedom.
When we stand under the vast canopy of the sky,
and feel the sun's golden rays pouring heat and life
over everything, our minds expand beyond the "hori
zon; we transcend the limitations of earth and hear
the word: Freedom! Freedom! in every breath of life
123
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
and from the inmost depths of our hearts, we, too,
sing "Freedom" and pray to realize it. "O thou the
Absolute, the Infinite, The Only Reality, open thou the
portals of our minds so that we may become conscious
of the Ever Present God." —Swami Bissessar.
Many years ago I read a sermon by Henry Ward
Beecher. In it he told how he "walked and talked
with God." He considered Christ as an Elder Brother
and when walking along meditating on the Absolute,
often felt that Christ was holding his hand and walk
ing beside him. A deep sense of security would pos
sess him and he would feel that he, too, was in reality
the Son of the Father. This sermon made a deep im
pression on me, and has been one of the influences
that has helped to shape my life. At the time of read
ing this sermon I was in the very depths of despair.
Being of a religious nature, I prayed morning, noon
and night, but without understanding; therefore I
could not find release from the bitter sorrow that was
sapping my life. Then this sermon came to me:
"When the student is ready the Master appears." I
got the spirit of the lesson, began to walk and talk
with Christ as an Elder Brother not far away, but
beside me; I began to get a glimpse of light, and in
time my troubles vanished. I know now they were
lessons I had to learn in order to advance along the
Path. I know, too, that He will solve all my prob
lems when I put them in His care and say and believe:
"Thy will and not mine be done." Knowing His solu
tion will be the right one, I am free from anxiety and
care. I find the way to peace is:
Think of God in early morning,
When the flowers are bent with dew;
Think of Him in golden noontide,
124
RELIGION AND FREEDOM
When the skies are deepest blue.
Think of God in misty evening
When the work of day is done;
Think of Him when purple shadows
And the nightwings blot the sun.
Think of Him when you are sleeping,
Dream of Him the whole night through,
And remember, in your thinking
He is ever close to you.
The clocks keep ticking and the sun appears on
scheduled time, the planetary stars whirl along in the
infinite rhythm of space; cycles on cycles, recession
and flow, through aeons of time; each an atom of dust
in the pulse of the Eternal Becoming. There is no
discord, no haste, no waste; and we, like blossoms
adrift on the breath of spring, are fulfilling the Law
of Karma.
The most important thing is silence. In the silence
—Wisdom speaks and they whose hearts are open, un
derstand her and become free. Religion is a seeking
after God; Freedom is a consciousness of our unity
with Him. If religion had not something in it beyond
the human ken, how could it hold its position in the
world over so long a period of time? How influence
the hearts of man to ever seek after immortality?
What has caused man to build temples, idols, cathe
drals ? What caused the Greeks to worship the forces
in nature, to construct splendid temples, to carve mar
velous statuary to their gods? Unless the works of
art symbolized more good than evil, they could not
have kept their places in civilization and come down
through the ages to waken a feeling of reverence in
man. They partially satisfied a hunger in the human
heart at that time, they exercised a great restraint on
125
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
human willfulness and passion, and have directed,
however imperfectly, human consciousness toward the
beautiful, toward right thinking and right action. All
religions rest on a sure foundation because they one
and all recognize some spirituality permeating the
finite world; and each one in its own way is seeking
to find God.
The law of evolution gives meaning and unity to
history and the progress of mankind. Geology shows
the higher forms of life succeeding the lower; botany
exhibits the mosses and lichen preparing the soil for
more complex vegetation; history shows the savage
giving way to the semi-savage, and the semi-savage
to the civilized.
The law of degree appears also in the different re
ligions; and we see everywhere the different degrees
of evolution in the unfoldment of the soul. All man
kind is preparing for something better and higher. If
this were not so, the whole fabric of human life would
be without unity—without progress or meaning —and
would fall.
All living in heathen lands must find their gods
through heathenism; the Christian finds his through
the teaching of Christ the Master; the Hindu seeks his
through one of the religions or philosophies of the
Orient. Four thousand years before Christ the people
of Persia were seeking the great realities of life
through the study of Zoroaster. Buddhism started cen
turies before Christ and has a following of three hun
dred sixty-nine million souls; Christians two hundred
ninety million; and Mohammedans, one hundred sixty
million. Because we believe in Christianity is no rea
son for disparaging all other religions. Do you think
it possible that all of these people are worshiping an
illusion or some dream creation of their own minds?
126
RELIGION AND FREEDOM
What is religion anyway? It is a longing to un
derstand the Absolute, a seeking after the unknown
and unknowable. What is freedom? It is a realiza
tion, a consciousness, of the Absolute manifesting in
our lives, without any anxiety on our part.
The oldest book in the world was compiled some
six thousand years before Christ by Ptah-Hotep. It is
23-7/8 inches long by 5-7/8 inches wide. It is written
in red and black ink on papyrus; was found in an
ancient tomb in Egypt, and now rests in a museum in
Paris. It is a book of maxims, teaching how to gain
freedom through right living.
"The eating of bread is under the provision of
God. He is an ignorant man, indeed, who disputes
it." "Established is the man who walks on the right;"
"Silence is more profitable than speech;" "Fair speech
is more precious than emeralds;" "Beware of speaking
evil;" "The disposal of souls is with God;" "And thou
art the steward of the endowments of God; they that
are guided go not astray;" "Let thy face be bright
what time thou livest;" "It is a man's kindly acts that
are remembered of him in the years after his life."
These and many other maxims on right living remind
us of the Proverbs written about one to seven hundred
years before Christ.
Buddha tells us to cultivate friendliness; cultivate
compassion, joy, indifference; wait on your father, wait
on your mother, and honor thy elders. "O Priest!" he
continues, "If one were to say a man must reap ac
cording to his deeds, in that case, O Priest! there is
no religious life, nor is any opportunity afforded for
the entire extinction of misery; but if anyone says,
O Priest! that the rewards a man reaps accord with
his deeds, in that case, O Priest, there is a. religious
127
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
life, and opportunity is given for the complete ex
tinction of misery."
Then came Christ Jesus, The Light of the World,
teaching the Brotherhood of Man; that we "are One
with the Father."
To ascribe the vast phenomena of religions to
man is to suppose the whole of it is the work of a
human fraud; to believe priests, working on human
fear and ignorance, is not a satisfactory solution of
the facts, and this reasoning leaves us dissatisfied; but
if we will give deep consideration to the facts before
us, we must realize that all religions benefit and uplift
mankind, and the teachings of Jesus the Christ are the
foundations of our own civilization.
We should not be converted from one religion to
another, but from all religions to the Eternal religion
—that
is,
behold one's Self as the Self of the past, the
present, the future; this
is
the supreme realization of
one's identity with the Infinite, and means
a
conscious
unity with the Absolute. This realization brings peace,
happiness and freedom and should be the GOAL of all
mankind.
Aum—Shanti—Shanti—Aum.
MAN'S CYCLE
Man was washed ashore, from the sea
of
silence
To the vibrant world
of
visible form;
A
created world
of
love and beauty
In all
of
its mystical hopeful charm.
He was given this world to love, to cherish,
To dishonor, to hurt, to scatter, to rend;
But the bright shining light
of
God within
Guides him safe to port, in the end.
128
THE THREE-FOLD PATH OF ATTAINMENT
Friends,
there are three exalted things in life—
philosophy, religion and science. The test of
philosophy is its sufficiency in times of adversity —a
test that helps man to bind up the loose ends of life.
The test of religion is peace and happiness, soul
growth and love for our fellow men and consecration
to God. The test of science is its mental and material
benefit to man.
We are about to approach the Three-Fold Path of
ancient Yoga Philosophy, a philosophy which has
moved the minds of men in the great past and is
moving the minds of the elect today. It is causing a
great part of the civilized world to rise above the en
trancing and sordid things of material life to seek
unfoldment of the strange mysterious creeds of faith
which are shrouded in the mists of antiquated legend
and symbolism.
Symbolism undefined and hidden throughout time
has with silent tongue taught, and is till teaching, the
hidden wisdom of the gods. On tablets, in Masonry,
Theosophy, the Rosicrucian Doctrine and in the paint
ed statues of the Roman Catholic Church, we find sym
bolism exalted. To understand the meaning of these
symbols is to become wise. Not to try to understand
them is to wilfully shut our eyes to the Light of Ages
—the Light that shineth forth out of darkness even in
this day of materialism.
The ancient Hindu Sages, coming from the lost
continent of Atlantis and the land of Mu, were the
fathers of philosophy in its original form. From mouth
to ear they taught those ready to receive. Thus was
129
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
perpetuated this wisdom in symbolical form long be
fore the days of writing—far back before Egypt built
the pyramids or sphinx, long before the Mahabharata,
the Upanishads, the Vedic Hymns or the laws of
Moses.
The Samkya system of philosophy, of which Kapila
was the founder, is the first of which there is any
record. Plato's philosophy is full of the knowledge
taken from this system, through the teachings of
Pythagoras. The great teacher-philosopher of Greece,
Pythagoras, was instructed in Oriental philosophy by
many of the great philosophers of his time, including
the Hindu Masters, during his sojourn among them.
Upon his return to Greece, he took with him several
Hindu philosophers that they might further teach him
the Hidden Wisdom. He found philosophy was like
a journey where one is ever learning yet never ar
riving at the ideal perfection one is seeking. Thinking
on the word of 'perfection' last night, I went to sleep.
In a dream I said, "God is the only perfection."
Friends, I was awakened by a loud voice saying,
"There is no such thing as perfection." There is a
sentence about which to think, as the foundation of
life is completely gone if God is not Perfection.
Pythagoras made the longest journey on foot of
which there is any record. He traveled through Greece,
Egypt, Persia, India, China, Tibet, and found all phi
losophies, religions and metaphysics were seeking to
know God. Max Mueller, Keiserling, Boehme, Victor
Cousin, Albert Pike, Madame Blavatsky, Manly Hall,
and a host of modern and ancient students and masters
have found that Kapila's Hindu Philosophy is the
fountain-head of that vast river of philosophical
130
THREE-FOLD PATH OF ATTAINMENT
thought which is circling the world today. The relig
ions—that of Moses, the mysteries of Egypt, philos
ophy of Confucius, Zoroaster, Buddha, Mohammed
and the brotherly love taught by Jesus, the Christ—
have had their beginnings in the teachings found in
the ancient scriptures of the Orient. The Vedic
Hymns written in Sanskrit—the oldest known writing,
thousands of years before the Christian era, are among
the great books of the world. Max Mueller, the emi
nent German philosopher, once said: "Take all the
literature in the world from me and leave me the
Upanishads. I shall have the wisdom of the centuries
at my command and be blessed indeed."
Ruins bleaching on the sands of Egypt, crumbling
temples in the jungle fastness of India, Tibet, Persia,
China, Japan, Alaska, Central and South America and
in our own United States, have figures startling in their
monstrous shapes, grotesque faces that are awe in
spiring in their hideous beauty. Remotest antiquity had
crosses, curves, dots, animals and flowers carved on
temples and rocks to symbolize the ancient wisdom.
What is it that constitutes this hidden wisdom?
Briefly, it is: Man know thyself. All the wisdom in
the world is in the answer to Why am I here? Where
do I go ? What am I ? and it is our purpose to present
to you the Three- Fold Path of Attainment: a Path of
Yoga Philosophy by which man can know himself. It
is a straight road. There is a beautiful Sanskrit story
that tells of it—the story of the Rider and the Driver.
I have condensed it into the following poem:
Life drives us on relentlessly each day
Nor gives us time to pause along the way.
131
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
Tries our soul-timber as we rush along.
Seems not to hear our weary, heart-throb song.
Our chariot— the body —strong, divine,
That takes us onward as we upward climb.
The driver—Intellect —the rider, Soul,
The reins, the mind that guides us to the goal.
The senses —five big, plunging, untamed steeds—
Convincing us we have unnumbered needs.
Desire forever pushing on to gain
Shows us exacting Law is not in vain,
That essence of the I is all in all
When Driver answers Rider's mystic call.
'Tis thus Life tries our metal strong or weak
And leads us to the shrine for which we seek.
* * * *
We have amongst us here in Northern Califonia a
great example of this driver going straight to his goal.
He is a young poet; no matter what alluring things
have beckoned him, no matter how flowery the path
way leading off the main hard-beaten path, he has
kept his eyes lifted, and his steeds (the five
physical senses) in absolute control. He has worked,
slaved, concentrated day and night on his desire for
beauty and perfection in poetry and to become a rec
ognized poet. Scribners' are bringing out this book and
the first two hundred copies have been sold for two
dollars and fifty cents per copy. This man has won
by concentrating on a great desire and by keeping his
mind one-pointed and on his goal.
No doubt you are asking what this has to do with
Occult Philosophy or the Three-Fold Path of Attain
ment. I relate this because it points the way of at
tainment on the mental plane—the path that leads to
132
THREE-FOLD PATH OF ATTAINMENT
knowledge. All of our lectures, all class work which
we give, show only the path and give the means of
transportation; each one must go the path alone and
keep the mind fixed on the goal. If desire, right de
sire, possesses the mind, as it did in the case of this
young poet, the Soul and the Cosmic Forces will guide
us to our reward.
Friends, we are fellow students along the Three-
Fold Path of life. We follow the ancient way of Yoga
because it is the source of all philosophy. We have
found and still find that it answers all of our needs
and is leading us to the shrine of Wisdom. We do
not ask you to believe what we are telling you but we
do ask you, if you feel so inclined, to investigate and
find out for yourself whether we are telling the truth
—whether this philosophy does open the portal of
Attainment.
You all know the word Yoga' means unity—
unity with the Absolute, unity with our fellow men,
unity with nature—all are manifestations and a part
of the bright, effulgent ONE. Yoga philosophy stands
as a great tree rooted in the heart of All Wisdom. Its
branches have leaves and flowers and fruits that de
velop the body and the mind and lead to unity with
GOD. This tree according to Yoga philosophy has
several branches.
Hatha Yoga deals with the physical body, its
health, its functions. One cannot hope to use the mind
if the body is not in harmonious accord with the mind.
How can the mind function if the five physical senses
are forever jumping around like the proverbial flea?
How can one meditate or concentrate on the principles
and realities underlying life, if they are bound by
sense desires or trembling in the throes of biological
133
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
thrills ? Hatha Yoga teaches how to become master of
the body.
Raja Yoga, the Yoga of reason, teaches the power
of the mind. Our modern psychologists are teaching
Raja Yoga though they call it by a different name.
They teach that man has two minds, the conscious or
the intellectual mind and the subjective or subcon
scious mind. The Yogis speak however of the con
scious, the subconscious —the superconscious and the
Spirit or Mind in its Essence. Yogis teach there is but
ONE mind manifesting in different rays of vibration,
but all functioning from the One Mind. It is difficult
for beginners to understand a mass of terminology.
Every thing in the universe is difficult to understand
when one tries to comprehend with the intellect alone.
So the Yogis teach Gnani Yoga, the power of
knowledge.
This one—Mind, God, Jehovah, Om, whatever we
may call that which eternally IS, which has always
been, which will always BE and which has many as
pects. Gnani Yoga teaches when we are awake to the
use of the conscious and the subconscious minds. We
arrive at knowledge and the use of the superconscious
mind.
Gnani, the Yoga of right knowledge is effective
in its action to him who possesses the requisite desire
for knowledge and to him who will be guided by one
who does possess knowledge.
Someone has said, "Love is the veil that keeps us
from our Beloved" —this is true on the mental or phy
sical planes. Love of God leads to HIM, and when a
consciousness of union comes, we become aware that
the veil is only a concept of our own minds, a veil
of ignorance. Ignorance is the tap-root of all discord,
134
THREE-FOLD PATH OF ATTAINMENT
wretchedness and misery in the world. All the ugli
ness, all the error, folly and hatred, all the impotence
of man is due to ignorance. It is unreasonable to sup
pose a thing is attainable if one is ignorant of its ex
istence. This is why I am going somewhat into detail
regarding the Three-Fold Path that banishes ignor
ance. I mean, of course, when the light of knowledge
comes in, the darkness of ignorance departs. This is
absolutely the Truth, as many of you know.
Therefore, when taking up the study of Yoga,
Vedanta, the Rosicrucian, Doctrine, Theosophy, meta
physics or any philosophy, right desire is the first req
uisite. What do I mean by right desire? I mean,
will the knowledge gained from this tree of knowl
edge be used rightly or wrongly? Through the sub
conscious mind we can bring into manifestation any
desire.
Now, what is a right desire? Ask yourself this
question: Is this thing I want going to bring injury
or unhappiness to another or rob him of his own in
any way? If it
is,
then
it
is
a
wrong desire. Drop
it! On the other hand,
if
this desire will bring us
peace, happiness, prosperity, and soul growth,
it
is
the
right desire; concentrate on
it
until,
it
is
manifested in
life. Now, are you stubborn and insist upon using
knowledge wrongfully for gaining the object of
a
wrong desire?
If
so, ask yourself
if
you are willing to
take the consequences that come with the fulfillment of
wrong desire. Remember, as we sow we reap. Thistles
come from thistles—lilies from lilies. Pain and
pleasure are consequences of desire. The disciple who
is
aflame with right desire will find co-workers of
the cosmic powers, when he has learned his lessons.
135
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
By devotion and work he will find an Elder Brother
by his side who will be ready always to help him.
He will find that this joy of contact with a Bright
Celestial One will constitute his chief happiness in
life. "Like a beautiful flower full of color, without
scent, are the fine words of him who does not live
accordingly; but like a beautiful flower full of scent
and color, are the words of him who acts accordingly."
We must remember that all religions and philos
ophies are based on some power of monism—oneness
of the unknown principle. All occultists and mystics
in their various schools teach that this One Eternal
principle (of which we are a part) is One Being, Life
Essence, constituting all forms of life, animate or in
animate; that all manifestations are vibrating with this
divine energy
—from man to a grain of sand. Call it
power, energy, principle, Jehovah, Allah, God, Om.
It matters not, for it is that which IS, which always
WAS, which ever shall BE. The mystic prayer of a
Master, a pagan invocation, or the chant ascending
with the beating of a voodoo drum are all acceptable
to God.
Bhakti Yoga deals directly with the love and devo
tion of this Absolute Principle. It brings peace and
happiness through faith. It is the outgrowth of knowl
edge, whose root and fruit is wisdom. Bhakti Yoga
teaches the principle of Love underlying all life. Jesus,
the Christ, was a Bhakti. He studied in other schools
in India, Persia, Tibet and Egypt with the Masters for
thirteen years. Then He said, "Father, Thy will and
not Mine, be done."
My Master has been teaching in America for nearly
thirty years. He has adapted the Oriental teachings
136
THREE FOLD PATH OF ATTAINMENT
to the western mind; and in all this time has not had
one student who has gone off at a tangent, or who
has become physically, mentally or spiritually unbal
anced (like so many students who try to reach the goal
before learning the A B C's of philosophy.) He in
sists upon his students keeping their feet on the
ground, their eyes lifted to the stars and their thoughts
on God. No student is allowed to take advanced
work until he has mastered the primary lessons. Many
students have not gone very far; some have dropped
out. Some have persevered and are teaching today.
In all these years, however, he has had but two stu
dents who have followed the path of Bhakti Yoga,
the path of devotion. It means renunciation, pov
erty. It means celibacy. It means rising above all de
sire, even desire for the Absolute. Without any ef
fort, Bhakti brings everything one desires or needs.
That is the meaning of "Thy will, not mine, be done,"
one of the highest laws of Bhakti.
One question that is in the mind of everyone is:
What is God ? What is reality ? We see great masses
of what we call matter manifested everywhere. We
know that back of these manifestations there is a force
or energy which we cannot see. We see matter dis
solve into gases, ashes, dust; into some other manifes
tation —and then a mystery confronts us. We see this
energy and force manifesting again in fruit and flow
ers, but the SOURCE of the energy or force we can
not see. This something that produces all there
is,
the Occultists term "That."
It
cannot be sensed
by
the five physical faculties, but can be realized
by
the
supermind or spiritual mind through the study of
Yoga.
137
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
It is well taught by all true teachers that it is nec
essary to acquire a knowledge of all branches of Yoga.
Hatha Yoga, to keep the body in perfect health, is the
first teaching; Raja Yoga is the Royal road of the in
tellect; Gnani Yoga teaches the knowledge of the uni
verse, it teaches that ignorance is fatal to soul growth,
that knowledge cannot be gained by a single formula.
It is not to be supposed that you follow all of these
paths. Any one of them leads to knowledge and
knowledge leads to wisdom. Wisdom leads in turn
to unity with the Absolute. Each one of us will
choose our own path, in our cycle of development;
but the Masters consider it necessary to study each
branch for a rounded out knowledge in order to prac
tice what we learn. For, knowledge without work will
take us into byways and we will not advance on the
Path of Attainment.
Yoga fruit hangs on the tree of life;
Who choose, may come and eat.
Within each fruit is Wisdom's gift,
The bitter seed, and the sweet.
Those who earnestly desire, and are willing to
contemplate this Tree of Life, will sooner or later eat
of the fruit of knowledge and sit in its Golden Shad
ows. Desire, work, obedience not only to the teach
ings but to the highest motives of the consciousness
within our hearts will bring us to the Inner Temple
where peace is found. By 'peace' I do not mean in
activity. I mean peace in activity, which is greater by
far and comes with work, knowledge and wisdom.
All life is a struggle. It is not a scene of repose but
of energetic action from atom to man.
This brings us to Karma Yoga, dealing with cause
138
THREE-FOLD PATH OF ATTAINMENT
and effect, with reincarnation and the reason WHY
we are what we are. Madame Blavatsky in her Secret
Doctrine gives one of the best lessons on Karma that I
have found. She says in this wonderful book of occult
wisdom:
"Nor would the ways of Karma be inscrutable were
men to work in union and harmony instead of dis
union and strife. For our ignorance of those ways
which one man calls the ways of providence, dark
<ind intricate, while another sees in them the action of
blind fatalism and a third simply chance, with neither
gods nor devils to guide them —would surely dis
appear if we would but attribute all these to their
direct cause with right knowledge, or at any rate with
a confident conviction that our neighbors will no more
work harm to us than we would think of harming
them. Two-thirds of the world's evils would vanish,
were no man to hurt his neighbor, Karma—Nemesis
would neither have cause to work for, nor weapons to
act through
* * * We stand bewildered before the
mystery of our own making and the riddle of life
that we will not solve! And then accuse the Great
Sphynx of devouring us. But verily there is not an
incident in our lives, not a misshapen day or a mis
fortune, that could not be traced back to our actions
in this or another life. Knowledge of Karma gives
the conviction that if:
Virtue in distress, and Vice in triumph
Makes atheists of mankind'
it is only because mankind has ever shut his eyes to
the great truth, that man is himself his own savior
139
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
as his own destroyer; that he need not accuse heaven
and the gods, fates and providence, of the apparent
injustice that reigns in the midst of humanity. But
let him rather remember that bit of Grecian wisdom
which warns man to forbear accusing That which
'Just though mysterious leads us uner
ringly through ways unmarked from
guilt or punishment."
"
Thus has spoken one of the wisest of the Wise of
Karma Yoga. Under the operation of the laws of
Karma every man is master of his own destiny. He
punishes himself, he rewards himself. He builds his
character or tears it down. He goes back in his cycle
of development, or goes ahead; but always Infinite
Love, the Spirit of Love, is constantly exerting the up
ward spiritual urge which draws the soul to ultimate
victory and a haven of rest.
It is said that the advanced races were old souls
freed from Karmic law. They were the progressive
and developed souls of Lemuria and Atlantis and the
ancient Masters who lived their lives elsewhere are
now reincarnating either on a higher plane of life or
else are reincarnated among us today. They are striv
ing with all their wisdom to save the present races
from the destruction which overtook them and are
working for the betterment of man. If our civiliza
tion fails in its duty to God, it will go down not in
water as did the Lost Continent of Lemuria, but in
fire, or be wiped out by vibrations so strong it cannot
withstand them; so it is prophesied! It is up to each
of us to shed all the light we can upon negative world
conditions today and try to show mankind the road to
world peace, to happiness—to God.
140
THREE-FOLD PATH OF ATTAINMENT
"In the stream within thyself, O friend,
make thy ablutions;
In the stream within thyself wash out
the tumult and despair of life;
In the stream within thyself absorb the
love and beauty and peace of God."
Do not be like a man who sleeps in a vale. A bird
flies above him to the mountain —he sees it not. He
sees not the blue sky or the drifting clouds, nor the
loveliness of day fade into the grandeur of night. He
does not see the moon silvering his couch nor feel
the stargleams kissing his eyes. He is not conscious
of the trembling leaves nor the song they sing; nor
does he see the nodding flowers or catch their fra-
grace. Be not like such a man, O friend. "The
cock crows 'morning' ! It is time to awake and to thy
work. If you cannot teach, spread the teachings as
best you can."
Tom Paine has said "Society is produced by our
wants, Government by our wickedness. The former
promotes our happiness positively; the latter nega
tively, by restraining our vices. Society is a blessing
and government a necessary evil." Rama Krishna has
said "A guru is a man who introduces another to
God." The object of these lessons is to kindle a fire
in each soul so that each may become a law unto him
self. Then we will not need the government that
Paine calls a "necessary evil," nor a creed. Each will
realize he is master of his own ship. There is a lovely
Persian story that is apropos—who have ears to hear
will hear:
One knocked at the Beloved's door. It was asked
from within, "Who is there?" He who knocked re
141
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
plied: "It is I," and received the reply, "There is no
room for two." Again the one without knocked and
a voice within asked, "Who is there?" The one with
out replied in rapturous tones, "It is Thou!" Against
such a reply the door is never shut. Within are
the deep waters of the mysteries and the body is bathed
in bliss. Without, we wander at will toward the por
tal of desire, selfishness and greed, or toward the
shrine of wisdom. Not one of us has come to earth
without bringing a desire to be of help to someone,
but it is you who have the light that are able to ex
plain to your asking brother. Without any obscurity
and without any magic, you can light the brightest
flame. Yoga philosophy is to me the peerless path
way; it takes us step by step above all selfishness and
superstition—in the end we too can knock and
truly say "It is Thou." Rama Krishna says he who sees
God in all, needs no creed. He saw the same God in
all religions and all religious peoples seeking after
God on their own plane of development. We must
try to realize Him in our present life by every possible
means. God is not found by rituals alone, though
rituals to some are the path that leads to Him. Loving
God with our whole mind and soul and loving our
fellow men as ourselves will help to save civilization.
Tolerance, sincerity, compassion, unselfishness and a
deep desire for spirituality are what lead to Him and
to peace on earth. Without Him there is no pathway.
Earth, without Him, can not bring peace. A wise one
has said, "He is the Lord of Lords, whose love flows
out to humanity as rivers flow into the sea—
142
THREE-FOLD PATH OF ATTAINMENT
"He feedeth and sustaineth all that one sees
He is the Diadem of Beauty.
He is the Crown of Truth,
The Scepter of Reality."
We had a most elevating experience recently. A
friend, who has been a student of philosophy for forty
years, has studied under Vivekananda, Abbehananda,
Trignutitta and other Masters who came to America.
On one occasion his master took him on a pilgrimage
to the Vedanta Ashrama up in the mountains so that
he might be in the solitude and, in the silence, might
more abundantly learn of God. They went afoot from
San Francisco. All along the mountain trails the Mas
ter kept saying and the disciple repeating this wonder
ful affirmation:
"I have made Thee the Pole-Star of my being
So that I may never lose my way on the sea
of life.
Wherever I go Thou art present
Wherever I am Thou art there!
I have made Thee the Pole-Star of my
being.
Should fear possess my troubled mind and
lead my soul astray
May I look aloft, and be ashamed to see
the vision of Thy face.
I have made Thee the Pole-Star of my
being."
What a glorious affirmation! What renunciation.
What faith. What victory! After twelve years of study
143
THE KINGDOM WITHIN
under the Vedanta Masters, my friend had to choose
between becoming a monk or going into the world. He
chose the latter and today goes about garbed at times
in blue overalls and blue shirt, giving help to those who
need it and giving wisdom to those ready to receive.
Few know of his mission in life, few of the victory he
has achieved.
Friends, when one knocks at thy door and seeks to
enter in, O do not turn thy face, it may be A Christ
who is standing there.
In closing, I will repeat Rama Krishna's dying
words: "Friends, I am giving you what I have to give.
I take nothing with me. Depend not on any man.
Depend on Him, and through His power do great
kindness to your fellow men. After that is done,
you will return to the House of Song whence you
came."
Let us do what we can to help our fellow men
to find this house of song. Let us do all we can to
merit admittance to it ourselves.
Peace of the North attend us
Peace of the South uphold us
Peace of the East enfold us
Peace of the West embrace us
Mother Earth bring health to us,
Father God abide with us—
Help us to help mankind.
May the glory of self-realization abide with us
forever.
Aum—Shanti—Shanti—Aum .
144
INVOCATION
Sing me thy love, mystic Gong of the East,
Bronze Gong from the Temple of Gods
Sing me the prayers from the coins of the poor,
Sing me the hopes in the gold oj the rich,
Tell me of Wise Men, the wisdom they know,
That soul oj my soul may awaken and grow:
Sing! . . .
Sing! . . . Sing! . . .
Sing me a song of the Earth, Sacred Gong,
Bronze Gong from the Temple of Gods,
Voice all the sweetness in song-birds of Spring,
Sing all the joy in the laughter of Man;
Sing all the potver in the thunderous sea,
In all of thy songs, brings HIS message to me:
Sing OM! . . . Om! . . . Om! . . .
Sing me a song of the Universe, Gong,
Bronze Gong from the Temple of Gods
Thy own ancient voice holds HIS love-song for
me,
The secrets, the glory, the Truth—Mystery!
Withhold not the spirit that dwells in thy voice.
Sing long, that the soul of me, too, may rejoice:
Sing! . . . Sing! . . . Sing! . . .
Sing me a song of the Cosmos, O Gong,
Bronze Gong from the Temple of Gods
Voice me the rhythm in movement of stars,
Rain down the essence in gold of the sun;
Illumine the silence in nebulous space
And mirror the substance reflecting HIS face:
Sing! . . . Sing! . . . Sing! . . .
145
Sing of Jehovah, symbolical Gong,
Bronze Gong from the Temple cf Gods
Sing of the purging of HIS burning flame;
Sing of the Kapila, the Buddha, The Christ;
Sing of their service at Brotherhood's shrine,
Sing union of all in the God-head, Divine:
Stng OM! . . . Oml . . . Oml . . .
146
CONCLUSION
Amirage of romance surrounds the moon and dims
eyes of the pointed stars. Intangible spirits walk
the earth and pluck at the core of the heart. The full
moon Ike a silver bubble sails in the afterglow. The
wind sighs in the willow boughs while invisible tides
of emotions sweep the mind. The echo of the sea,
the warmth of the earth and the trembling leaves, all
merge in One. The roots of trees, like gnarled fingers,
come through the earth for light and the unseen
winds that leap the canyon walls, unify the temporal
things with the Eternal. Souls in black abyss beyond
the stars and the elemental mind of man merge in
Eternal Mind that they may commune with the
Beloved.
The mutilated concept of Divinity and the world
does not hamper the minds of the primitive people
from seeking their God. Nor does it impede the prog
ress of the advanced souls that are close to God.
Wise people learn that the canonading thunder
communes with the dewdrop dripping from a rose;
they see forms too shadowy for the mortal eyes to see,
hear voices whisper in a mystic language which can
not be translated with the reasoning mind.
These people know as did the ancient Polynesians
that, "It is folly to pick fruit from the tree before it
is ripe: that until events of life unfold, man is ignor
ant where they may end." They know when the gods
are ready to give the wisdom (wisdom we must earn)
and not until then, may we know what this earthly
life portends. To seek to know the hidden mysteries
of life before we are ready to understand their mean
147
ing is foolishness and conflicts with the purpose of
reincarnation and soul growth and the Eternal Law.
The body is the temple of the soul and the mind is
controlled in a measure by the intellectual mind. It is.
at times, misled by the five physical senses. But, The
Self-creating Self glorifies the body and the mind and
attunes us with the Universal Whole. Man's soul
is not like a pale lemon glow, nor is it like the blazing
sun falling in the Pacific. It is the temple of the
Spirit which contains the whole of the Cosmic Mind,
so effulgent in its Light it blinds the eyes.
To bring man into closer union with this Bright
Effulgent One, is the object of this book. May you
prosper on the Path that lead's to Wisdom's Shrine.
Sorts of the Earth
Think well of the days when you are One with Me.
The nights will bring you peaceful slumber,
Brightness like the sun will fill your eyes,
Hours of joy will go with you
And the ancient walls of the Earth
Will echo your gladsome song.
There will be no gloom I You will know
You are a part of Me. Omnipotent, Omnipresent.
Omniscient.
In those days your heart will beat in unison with My
heart
And you will be carried along in honor, peace and
By the noble order of the Bright Celestial Throng.
Aunt . . . Shanti . . . Shanti . . . Aum.
PEACE PEACE PEACE
148
jfflp draper
<£>
&tjou tfjc Absolute tfje Snfinite
®be onlp IXealitp,
&ibe me totsbom anb fait))
&o tijat
3
map open tfje portal
tEo mp illimitable poioers.
0m tat sat, 0ml
Cbe portal
of
mp mmb
3s nolo open
<£o tf)e infloto
of
Spiritual knotolebge:
St
is
mp soul=asptration anb besire
&o become one toitfj Wbtt
Vnitch anb inseparable,
Cbe belp
of
tbe €lber Protbers
is
mine.
0m tat sat, 0ml
—Swami Bhagwan Bissessar.
149
