{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__hastings___defence_of_madame_blavatsky____v2.pdf","mytitle":"Defence Of Madame Blavatsky","mylang":"de"}
DEFENCE OF
MADAME BLAVATSKY
Volume H.
(Each volume is complcfe in itself)
THE
“
COULOMB PAMPHLET"
BY
BEATRICE HASTINGS
Published by Beatrice Hastings,
4, Bedford Row,
Worthing, Sussex,
England.
1937
Mrs. Beatrice Hastings is a writer well-known in literary
circles, but, having written mostly anonymously, is unknown
to the general public. The quotations below may, therefore,
be convenient.
April 14th, 1932:
“
Beatrice Hastings, the cleverest woman
writer of her day.”-—E1/cryman.
1934. (Mr. Victor Neuburg): “Mrs. Hastings, the
famous critic, star turn of the ‘
New Age’ when that paper
was by far the best-written in London.”—Sunday Referee.
Iune 1st, 1933. (Londoner’s Diary): “I can recall only
one other Englishwoman who publishes in both French and
English, and that is Mrs. Beatrice Hastings.”
—E1/ening Standard.
Obtainable from Mrs. Beatrice Hastings; 2/6, post free.
All orders are payable in advance. Usual terms to the
Trade. Cheques and Orders payable to Beatrice Hastings.
Vol. I.
Section 1. Madame Blavatskyand the Ma.hatma Letters.
Section 2. A note on the “Kiddle Incident”.
Section 3. The Mahatma Letters and Messrs. Hare.
Section 4. Mahatma K.H. and A. P. Sinnett.
Vol. II. The “Coulomb Pamphlet”.
Vol. III. The Shrine. The “Adyar Saucer” phenomenon.
The Sewn Letter (spacepermitting). In preparation.
Vol. III. will contain Index to all three Vols.
Vol. IV. Solovyoff’s “
Modern Priestess of Isis ”. In prepar-
ation.
All the volumes, although varying in length, are equally
priced at 2/6 each volume.
(Orders may be placed for Vols. III. and IV. Money
should not be sent with order.)
PREFACE.
This Volume 2 is intended to deal mainly with letters
allegedly written by Madame Blavatsky to Madame Coulomb.
Examination in detail of the whole of Mme. C.’s pamphlet
would be a lengthy affair, requiring a book three times as
large as her own. As in the case of the Report of the
Society for Psychical Research and of Solovyofi’s “Modern
Priestess of Isis”, we have to stem an inexhaustible flow of
ggrrulity,apparently coming from a source of fact, but really
ing “inexactitudes” following each other with almost
mysterious ingenuity,cunningthatnothingbut tireless research
will finally expose. Here is an instance: On page 84, Mme.
C. says with reference to a Mahatmic communication advising
Damodar and the rest to be more patient with her, she being
a medium and irresponsible:
“
He [Damodar] went upstairs, I followed him tip-toe, saw
him prepare the letter, and when he was coming down I
ran before him and was in time to hear him say that the
Mahatma had settled the business [the Board of Control was
sitting to expel her] by the letter”.
It would take many pages to show with references and
quotations that I. Dr. Hartmann, President of the Board, when
testif in to his colleagues and fellow members on the spot,
all of’w om were in a position to verify what he said—stated
that the letter was received in the Board room; and that what
Hodgson says Hartmann told him, namely, that Damodar
left the room, returning almost immediately,cannot be relied
on, even as hearsay evidence, seeing that Hartmann and the
chela; had decided by then -to refuse Hodgson any
“
occult ”
testimony, and deliberately assisted him with every new
mare’s nest he built up on Mme. C.’s “
revelations”;
5
2. that Damodar had ceased to use the room upstairs; 3. that
to follow Damodar “
upstairs ”, she needed to cross the house
and pass the office, risking detection by Babaji, Brown, Ananda
and anyone else who happened to be about, visitors or one
or other of the numerous servants; 4. that the letter was in the
Mahatma’s most authentic style and in his handwriting and
was sixteen lines, small print, long (see Appendix 1.); 5. that
the tenour of the letter was absolutely against Damodar’s
inclinations to see the last of Mme. C., who made his life
a burden; 6. that this is the one and only instance where
Mme. C. accuses D. of being anything but a dupe. And
then, we should have to consider the glib rubbish of “tip-
toe” up and “running” down and although “before”
him, being “in time” to hear him say, etc.
On page 93, in a note, Mr. Coulomb states: “In order to
save Madame’s reputation, I did my best to the last, and it
was only on the morning of the 16th May that I confessed
to Mr. Damodar the existence of the tra —doors (as it can
be seen by his aflidavit) and this confi entially with the
object of sparing Madame’s honour.”
Below, on the very same page, Mr. C. writes, with refer-
ence to a letter he only heard of after he had been
expelled
-——a Mahatmic letter saying that trap—doors would be ound
and advising Dr. Hartrnann to act without delay against the
Coulombs, date, April26th :
“
It would have been much better
for Mme. Blavatsky if Mr. Damodar, knowing the danger of
the situation [italics mine], would have warned her of the
consequences attending it . . .
”.
The lying How of garrulity is really inexhaustible, where-
fore I confine my examination mainly to the direct question
of the letters giving these in full with narrative of the
circumstances.
B. H.
August, 1937.
NOTE.
In the spring of 1872, in Cairo, Madame Helena Petrovna
Blavatsky started a society called “La Société Spirite”, her
objects being, firstly, to convince the public of the reality of
the so-called “spiritualistic” phenomena, and, secondly, to
demonstrate the scientific basis of the manifestations and the
possibilit of repeating certain phenomena at will. She began
this worlzagainst the advice of her friend, the famous Coptic
occultist, Paul Metanon, who said that it was premature. The
Society had been in existence for about two weeks when, in
the absence of Madame Blavatsky, some mediums whom she
had engaged organised a fraudulent séance, and were caught;
the Society then came to an end. Among the sitters was a
Miss E. Cutting, later, Madame Coulomb. She was of Levan-
tine extraction, spoke Italian, but knew some English and
French, and she had been employed as nursery governess in
an Egyptian family. Being dismissed, she had taken service
in a small hotel. After the exposure of the mediums, which
she witnessed (testifying, incidentally, to the absence of
Madame Blavatsky), she called on H.P.B., showed sympathy
and lent her some money.
H.P.B. left Egypt, went to Russia and Paris, and thence,
in 1873, to New York, where the Theosophical Society was
founded, in 1875. She left America for India in I879 and
set up the headquarters of the T.S. in Bombay.
Meanwhile, Miss Cutting had become Madame Coulomb
and, with her husband, a Frenchman born in Egypt, had
left that country, bankrupt, and, after wanderings here and
there, had fallen on evil days in Ceylon. She read in a
newspaper of Madame Blavatsky's arrival in India, wrote to
her, and received a genial reply. More correspondence follow-
ed and then, without announcing their coming, the Coulombs
appeared at Bombay headquarters on March 28th, 1880, their
7
fares having been paid by the French Consul at Galle. The
nniless couple were welcomed and taken in, and soon they
b:camc, respectively, housekeeper and hand -man of the estab-
lishment; and theymade themselves invalua le as domestics.
But Madame Coulomb was jealous, conceited and incredibly
ambitious; and she soon showed her character. As early as
Iuly, 1881, she furtively slandered Madame Blavatsky and
offered, unsuccessfully, to sell “secrets” to the “Bombay
Guardian”. The Theosophical Society made much progress
and in Dec. 1882, moved to Adyar, Madras. Here, the
couple did pretty much as they pleased so far as the house-
hold was concerned. But, as Mme. C. remarks on page 50
of her pamphlet; “There is no peace for the wicked, says
Isaiah, no more was there any for the Coulombs”. She
blames Madame Blavatsky for the lack of peace, but the case
seems to have been that Mme. C. was obsessed by an envious
hatred of H.P.B. that amounted to a disease and that time
only increased. The climax arrived when Madame Blavatsky,
on the eve of sailing from Bombay for Europe, Feb. 20. 84,
prevented Mme. C. from borrowin 2,ooo Rupees from a rich
Theosophist. When leaving the 5 ip, after saying good-bye,
Mme. C. told I-I.P.B.’s servant, Babula, that she would be
revenged on his mistress. She returned to Adyar from
Bombay and, a week or two later, the Board of Control that
had been set up to take charge of the household during the
absence of Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott, began to
hear about “trap—doors” for fraudulent phenomena. Mme.
C.’s evil ton ue being well—known, no-one believed what she
said, especial y as she denied having said it, when tackled on
the subject. However, the Board had discovered pilferingby
the Coulombs, and set about collecting information from well-
known Theosophists. Aflidavits were made that testified to
Mme. C.’s habits of secretly slandering Madame Blavatsky
and the Society in general, and of attemptin to get money
from members. It was decided to expel e couple; they
resisted, refused to leave. On May 18th, I-I.P.B. cabled to
the Board authorityto demand the keys of her private rooms
from the Coulombs.
I
Then it was found that a hole in the wall and tra -doors
actually did exist in Madame Blavatsky’s rooms. T e dis-
covery did not shake the faith of the members on the spot
8
who, one and all, Indians and Europeans, a reed that no
fraud could have been carried out already by these con-
trivances, obviously only in process of construction by the
mag Coulomb. The couple were got rid of at last on May
23r» .
Mme. C. had mentioned no compromising letters, although
she had tried to blackmailthe Board of Control into paying
her 3,000 Rupees as the price of her peaceful departure. But,
in August, three months later, she sold to the Rev. Patterson,
Editor of the “Christian College Magazine” at Madras, a
bundle of seventy letters, all allegedly written by H.P.B., and
nineteen of which contained instructions to the Coulombs to
produce fraudulent “phenomena”. Mr. Patterson published
the letters (or, rather, notes and selected extracts from letters).
One result of this was the despatch to India by the Society
for Psychical Research of Mr. Hodgson to investigate the
affair. The world is only too well aware that the S.P.R.
branded Madame Blavatsky as an impostor.
A year before Hodgson’s Report was issued (Dec. 1885), the
Madras Scottish Free Church missionaries (Rev. Patterson and
colleagues) had published a pamphlet written by Mme. Cou-
lomb, entitled, “
Some Account of my association with
Madame Blavatsky, 1871 to 1884”.
This present Volume 2 of “Defence of Madame Blavatsky”
deals with the main part of the pamphlet, in which Mme. C.
publishes the alleged “fraud”'
letters. To avoid overlapping,
reserve seven of the letters to be examined in Volume 3, in
two sections on “The Shrine” and “The Adyar Saucer
Phenomenon”. Subscribers have already been notified that
these sections, advertised to appear in Vol. 2, havevhad to be
held over to Vol. 3, in order to give full space to verbatim
reproduction of all the “fraud”
letters here examined, French
and English, and to a fuller treatment of the pamphlet than
was at first intended.
B.H.
I.
INTRODUCTORY I.
“
Some Account of my association with Madame Blavatsky
from 1372 to 1884.” By Madame Coulomb.
This pamphlet was signed by Madame Coulomb on Novem-
her 29th, 1884, and first printed at Madras, Dec. 84. I have
a copy of the London edition, long since out of print, “
pub-
lished for the Proprietors of the Christian College Magazine
by Elliot Stock, London, 1885 ”. The inside of the title age
bears the legend :
“
This pamphlet is reprinted verbatim fiom
the edition issued in Madras, including the occasional in-
accuraciesand incorrect expressions consequent on the Author’s
imperfect knowledgeof the English language.”
Mme. Coulomb’s English is tolerable from a half-educated
semi-foreigner, although not so good as possibly to be con-
founded with that used in certain passages where the pen
of some accommodating Madras padri is to be discerned
turning a point and indulging in unctuous irony.
What Mme. Coulomb lacked was the skill to make a
judicially complete story of a mixture of already published
and well-known facts, of half-truths, lies and slander with a
series of letters partly genuine and partly invented. But then,
nobody could do that; the facts and the genuine parts would
defeat the most hardy cunning. Mme. C. had to fit in a
false side to well-known circumstances; and the result is a
muddle. The book may seem simply disgusting, or somewhat
amusing, according to the reader's temper. Perhaps most
modern readers would feel at first a remarkably unpleasant
sensation as of some stinging creature lurking, but would
occasionally give way to amusement, finally wondering how
anyone ever came to accept this document as evidence.
The “Author” who had just sold to the Madras Scottish
Free Church missionaries for publication a confession of pro-
longed swindling, begins her Preface: “This pamphlet has
originated in the unscrupulous attacks on my character.”
One of these “attacks” was made b a witness who told
how Mme. C. extracted a loan of a hun red rupees from him,
declaring that she had seen clairvoyantly a treasure buried in
the house of a miserably poor person; but, even after getting
10
a further loan of twenty-five rupees from the poor person
himself, she failed to find the treasure and never returned
the rupees. (“Result of Observations made during a nine-
months’ stay at the Theoso hical Head uarters, Madras.” By
F. Hartmann, M.D. Madras, Septem er, 1884. P. 26.).
But the attacks against this lady's. character had been put
in due form long before she sold for publication in the
“Christian College Magazine”, Sep.—Oct., 1884, what she
calls the “Blavatsky correspondence”; this correspondence
being entirely one-sided, and consisting mainly of mere notes
and of extracts from nineteen out of about seventy letters
allegedly written by Madame Blavatsky to the Coulomb and
her husband—the nineteen having been selected by the Rev.
Patterson, Editor of the “
C.C.M.” as incriminating Madame
Blavatsky and proving her to have carried on fraud over some
years with the assistance of the Coulombs.
The truth was that in the previous May, 84, the Coulombs
had been expelled from the Society on account of charges made
in aflidavits by several European and Indian members of the
T.S. The couple had resisted to the last. Mr. Coulomb had
even shown holes in walls and sliding-panels, the which he
declared he had made by Madame Blavatsky’s orders.
Madame Coulomb demanded 3,ooo Rupees as the price of
her departure. It was all in vain. The Board of Control
turned them out.
What neither of the couple did was to threaten to produce
any letters. Olcott’s remark in “
Old Diary Leaves ”, Vol. 3,
p.179, that Mrne. C. offered to sell letters before she was
expelled, is contradicted by Mme. Coulomb herself. Olcott
was in Europe at the time. Mr. Lane-Fox, who was on the
spot, made no mention of any letters. Dr. Hartmann, Pre-
sident of the Board, writes ironically in his pamphlet (P56):
“
It is reasonable to sup ose that if the letters had already
existed when the Coulombs left headquarters, my friend, Mrs.
Coulomb would have informed me about it”. This is
certainly reasonable, seeing that the Coulombs were desper-
ately trying to extract blackmail. A long letter from H.P.B.
to Mme. C., dated from Paris, April2nd, reproaches Mme. C.
with her “trapdoor”
yarns, but ignores any threat to produce
letters. Finally, Iudge I. B. Gribble, the missionaries’ hand-
writing expert, states (“Report of an examination into the
II
Blavatsky correspondence,” P. 22.) that Mme. C. told them
that she first wrote threatening Madame Blavatsky “about
the end of April”, and that she made no threat to the
Board until after she had been expelled. As we shall see,
about the end of April, Mme. C. was writing an imploring
and abject letter to H.P.B. It is probable that she wrote
previously a blackmailing letter on quite another subject,
namely, H.P.B.’s connection with the revolutionary Metro-
vitch.
V 1 I5
Certainly, no letters were produced. But, on Aug. 9th,
about three months after the ex ulsion of the Coulombs, who
were provided with a lodging y the missionaries throu h a
member of their congregation, a Mrs. Dyer, Mme. Cou omb
asked for an interview with the Rev. Patterson and offered
to sell him a whole bundle. The letters proved toibe “in
the main a collection of letters purely private or dealing with
Theosophicalaffairs ”
(Mr. Patterson in “
The British Weekly”,
May 21st, 1891). But there were nineteen of an incriminating
nature, written in a hand so like the rest that the missionary,
after asking the opinion “
of some gentlemen with banking
experience”, decided that their verdict of guilt against
Madame Blavatsky warranted him in publishing e letters;
the which he did, together with an attack on the Theosophical
Society under the lurid title, “
Collapse of Koot Hoomi”.
Kcot Hoomi was a name that signified one of the Mahatmas
connected with the Society.
2.
Some of the pamphlets published and signed by reverends
in 1884-5, and even much later, against Madame Blavatsky
would really be almost impossible today as coming from
clerical pens. In fact, the upshot of one’s delvings into these
productions is the conclusion that, then, anyone might safely
say what he pleased against her. The Madras Bench was
known to be hostile to the Theosophical Society. The Gov-
ernment was considerably wiser, valuing the good effect the
T.S. had worked on Indian loyalty; and later, the outrage on
Indian sentiment committed by the Society for Psychical
Research when this body denounced every native connected
,I2
'
with the Theosophical Society as either a dupe or a confeder-
ate, thus causing the most insulting pain to_ hundreds of good
Indian families, was duly corrected by Lord Connemara, who,
in 1888, invited Colonel Olcott, the President-Founder of the
T.S., to Government House. One may imagine the faces
of magistrates and reverends who were obliged, there, at
least, to keep their incivility in their pockets.
Among the reverends who distinguished themselves was a
certain Mr. R. Ethol Welsh, M.A. This gentleman wrote a
treatise, “The Truth about Theosophy”. He reproduced a
plan of the famous “Occult Room” with the “
Shrine ", the
cabinet that was used at Adyar Headquarters for correspon-
dence with the Mahatmas. There were only two plans of
the Shrine and surroundings ever known; one is in Dr. Hart-
mann’s pamphlet, and the other, drawn by W. Q. Iudge, was
pirated by Hodgson of the S.P.R. and reproduced as his own
in his Report (“ H.P.B. and the Masters.” By Annie Besant.
P. 43.). Hoigsozi improved on this plan, and Mr. Welsh
took the tip.
Hartmann’s authenticplan places the Shrine too far beyond
the hole in the wall, made by Mr. Coulomb, to be of any
use for the fraud of passing letters through that hole; in this
further agreeing with the evidence given by witnesses before
the Adyar Defence Committee to the effect that Coulomb had
miscalculated. (“Report of an Investigation into the
chartges
against Madame Blavatsky.” Jan. 1885, P. 14.). But is
nonsense won’t do for the Rev. Welsh. He sees, as so many
saw, that things did not fit; so, he shoves up the Shrine to
the hole! I have a copy of his pamphlet with the drawing
before In eyes. Still, this ingeniosity is only of a piece with
the who e campaign, than which, perhadps, nothing more
unscrupulous was ever left on stark recor .
3.
Dr. Hartmann’s pamphlet was written originally as a
private report to the General Council of- the T.S. It was in
the press before the Rev. Patterson’s “Collapse of Koot
Hoomi!” appeared, and was marked, “Private and Confi-
dential”. When the alleged letters appeared, Hartmann im-
mediately issued his Report to the public. It is almost as
13
amusing as instructive. He had an easy 11, and he draws
around Mme. Coulomb a circle wherein sf: stands before us
like an enchanted little ogress (P.24.):
“Soon after my arrival at Adyar [Dec. 83.], I was intro-
duced to a female who was addressed as
‘
Madame Coulomb ’,
and who, as I soon had occasion to find out, was not only
the independent master of all the household, but was suffered
to ‘boss’ Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott, and woe
to him who would accidentally step on her toes!
“Imagine a weird, witch—like creature, with wrinkled
features and a stinging look, and an uncouth form. Her
duty was to patronise the servants to nurse like a mother a
decre id old horse and several mangy dogs, which were
unabe to walk. She seemed to consider it her especial
purpose in life to pry into everybody’s private affairs, pick
up stray letters here and there, probably for the purpose of
studying the handwriting; she attempted to wriggle herself
into the confidence of newcomers, and had a way of finding
out their secrets by pretending to tell their fortunes by means
of a pack of cards; while at the same time she would try
to awaken the sympathy of strangers by her tales, how from
a life of luxury she had sunk down to a position of servitude,
and if she found a willing car, she would never hesitate to
insinuate that the whole Society was a humbug, the phen-
omena produced by fraud, and that ‘she could tell many
things if only she wanted to do so’.
“She would tell the aspirant for Theosophical honours,
kindl and confidentially,that Colonel Olcott was a fool, who
was led by the nose by Madame Blavatsk .
If asked to
explain herself, she would say: ‘My mout is shut up, I
cannot talk against the people whose bread I eat’, and when
she was told that occult phenomena occurred even when
Madame Blavatsky was thousands of miles away, she would
say that ‘
she knew what she knew’ ”.
Mme. C. was a bit of a medium, pretended to clairvoyance,
and had picked up a few hints in Egypt. Hartrnann depicts
her as composing “
magic mirrors ”
and trying to conjure
Elementals amid burning incense.
“For all these valuable services, Madame Coulomb claimed
no wages. She had arrived at headquarters penniless and
been taken into the house of Madame Blavatsky out of
I4
charity, and been given full control over everything,including
the purse; and when she left head uarters, she sported a
large roll of bank-notes. (The housdlxold expenses since the
Coulombs left, have been each month 230 to 270 Rupees less
than the monthlyexpenses during their presence.) It seems,
therefore, that her unremunerated stay at headquarters was a
financial success after all; but Madame Coulomb did ‘a little
trading’ on her own account . . .
“
Having paid my respects to Madame Coulomb, it behoves
us to look at the appendix. Imagine a ghostly Frenchman
with the complexion of an ash—barrel, to which is attached a
black beard. While he speaks with you, his one glass eye
stares you out of countenance, while his other eye, with
characteristic politeness, wanders out of your way. Mr. Cou-
lomb enjoyed the reputation of being a man of great valour,
and if you could hear him swear and curse and yell in French
at the coolies, you would have thought that he was without
fear. In fact, his frequent violent outbursts of passion had
produced the universal belief in the neighbourhood that it
would be dangerous to contradict him . . .
“
Mr. Coulomb held nominally the oflice of a librarian and
man of all work. He was a mechanic and carpenter, ex t
in making trap-doors and slidin -panels; but his accomp ish-
ments were then neither fully nown nor appreciated, and
while Madame Coulomb’s talk was listened to by us as the
innocent twaddle of a cranky old woman, her appendix was
treated with great civility to avoid having him go into a fit
of hysterics or epilepsy.”
Here we have the worthy cou le drawn from life. But
I think that Dr. Hartmann shou d have said that Madame
Coulomb gained only gradually control of the 'urse and
became suffered to ‘boss’ everyone. The coupe, in the
course of four years from their advent at Bombay on March
28th, 1880, had managed to make themselves apparently
indis nsable, for they ran the household; Olcott and H.P.B.
could‘go away for weeks and months and return with no
domestic worry. Mr. C. was willing to do anythingwanted,
make a new door, mend the roof, build a new room, anything
-—so long as he was left free and never crossed in his sug—
gestions. He made walls and cupboards and panels just as
he pleased, for nobody else understood anythingabout build-
15
ing and carpentering. Nobody ever asked him what he was
doing. Nobody suspected him at all. To the very end, until
there was no doubt possible, both Olcott and H.P.B. confided
in his “honneur”; the letters that both wrote from Paris,
even after the Board of Control had begun its investigations,
indicate that the believed Mr. Coulomb to be himself the
victim of his wi e's archi-known evil tongue.
With a kind of automatic necessity that she often exhibits,
Mme. C. publishes these letters in her pamphlet (R83 and
onwards. See Appendix to present volume.). She also
publishes a letter to Col. Olcott, written by her husband, that
‘must be almost unexampled for unctuous cunning. Outside
Balzac and Dickens, such a couple was rarely put together.
‘If Mr. Coulomb had been equip ‘d to compose in English,
instead of being reduced to copy is wife’s concoctions in an
imitation of Madame Blavatsky’s handwriting, the “
Coulomb
pamphlet” might have been a much stiPfer business to deal
with. He could read English, was an expert draughtsman
and could copy anything . . . good reasons for H.P.B.’s
enemies to keep him in the background. And they did so.
It has been asked~—how Madame Blavatsky could tolerate
the Coulombs? Tolerate? I think that she was absolutely
terrified of losing these domestic jewels. Who would not
be so? And H.P.B. utterly incompetent at house-keeping!
We discern from one of the genuine letters so strangely
inserted by Mme. C., what was H.P.B.’s innate attitude of
impatient or humorous indulgence towards the useful depend-
cnt who finally got such a hold . . .
but who realised, with
"incurable resentment, that she could never walk around this
wonderful rsonage, could never be superior outside the
kitchen. This letter was written from Ootacamund, August,
-1883; at the very same moment as Mme. C. pretends to have
received several of the most imbecile, illiterate and vulgar of
the letters she sold to the Rev. Patterson. Madame Blavatsky’s
letter is in French, and, as it is not one of the “fraud”
‘letters, I correct slightly Madame C.’s translation:
V“ Ma chére amie, I am sending you a large box of flowers——
forget—me—nots, reseda, violets, etc. The plants will be well
‘watered _at the roots, but I am afraid that they may arrive
faded, although with their roots. They must be planted and
kept always in the shade; -that sun of Madras would kill
16
"them in no time. I shall bring two more boxes with me.
Yes, you may take the carriage_and go wherever you
please, even to the Archbisho ’s. Neither carriage nor horse
can catch bad magnetism, an I am no bigot to revent you
or anyone else from going to church; it is you on y who risk
catching a moral, if not physical, scabies there. A lady here
became possessed after going to church. Nice place! And
you ‘call ourself_ a Christian? But read theinjunction of our
Christ: e forbids going to church and doing like the P ari-
sees. However, it is your look—out, ma belle amie, your
aEair._
“
Sincerely yours, church and flapdoodle notwithstanding,
“H. P. Blavatsky.”
¥ # 5!
.
Maybe, Mme. Coulomb printed this merely to impress her
piety upon her Christian readers; but also, perhaps, she felt
a longing to per tuate this record of other da s, days of
toleration and in ulgence, days of a sure home, ays forever
one. When she co ied it out for print, people whom she
ad known, and per a s ‘bossed’, at Adyar, were drawing
their robes aside as ey passed her in the street. The
diseased dogs which she kept to alarm the high—caste Brahmin
visitors to Adyar, were not more untouchable to these than
she now to the veriest pariah recipient of Theosophicalcharity.
4.
‘
But there was a charming reason for H.P.B.’s toleration‘
of Mine. C. Years back, in Cairo, I872, Mme. C. had done
her a service. H.P.B.’s mistaken “
Société Spirite” had only
been running a fortnight. One day, she went out to visit
2 Copt friend in the Desert, and, during her absence, the
mediums whom she had engaged organised a fraudulent
séance, and were cau ht b the sitters. Mme. C. says (P.3.)
that she arrived to rid e room in an uproar: “I went
away, leaving the crowd red as fire, ready to knock her
down when she came back”. Meeting Madame Blavatsky
a few days later, she heard the story and, calling next day,
found that H.P.B. was temporarilyshort of money; and Mme.
Coulomb lent some small sums. She writes: “
She granted
:7
me receipts, which I left in my boxes in Egypt when I came
away.” Unfortunate! But, a letter from Mme. C. to Madame
Blavatsky, produced by the Adyar Defence Committee, shows
that H.P.B. had given her a valuable cloth, presumably to.
cover the debt. In the same letter, Mme. C. begs for a loan of
Rs. 200, offers security, and makes not the least claim as an
old and unpaid creditor. Letter dates from Ceylon, Iune 10th,
1879, when Mme. Coulomb first read in the papers that
Madame Blavatsky had arrived in India. (Report of an
Investigation into the charges against Madame Blavatsky.”,
Appendix VIII. 6.) —
Nevertheless, in 1872, Mme. Coulomb made life a little
less dismal for H.P.B. during those days of distress of all
kinds; and, when the Coulombs arrived penniless at Bombay,
their fares having been advanced, with alacrity,b the French_
Consul at Galle, Ceylon, they were given a welcome and a
shelter, although they had come unannounced.
H.P.B.’s distress at Cairo was not only due to cheating
mediums, or even to pecuniary straits. There was something
that troubled her much more. '
Her aunt, Madame N. Fadeev, had heard that she was
in Egypt and had begged a friend, or a familyacquaintance,
a man named Metrovitch, to Find her and beg her to come
home. H.P.B. had not been home for over six years-
Metrovitch was the most famous o eratic basso of his day.
He was also a revolutionary, one o the ever-hunted Carbon»
aros; a secret unlikely to have been confided to the orthodox
Mme. Fadeev, but known to H.P.B. He arrived in Alex—
andria, and, somehow, H.P.B. received information that the
hunters were on his track. She persuaded him to hide for
ten days in her apartment at Cairo. Metrovitch could not
endure the seclusion; he left, intendingto return to Alexandria,
but, on the way, at Ramleh, he was struck down by a
mysterious illness. The famous Russian traveller, Madame
Lydia Paschkoff, wired the news to Madame Blavatsky, who-
immediately set off for Ramleh. Metrovitch died; and, as
the Christian Church refused to bury a Mazzinist, H.P.B..
buried the body herself on the seashore.
The story of Metrovitch’s death as told by Count Witte
in his “Memoirs ”
(or, alleged Memoirs) namely, that Metro-
vitch was killed in the ship, “Eumonia” that blew up at
18
sea in Iune, 1871, would seem doubtful, even if we had
nothing but inference to go on. Such an end of the cele-
brated singer would have been wired from end to end of
Europe. But, our friend, Mme. Coulomb, knew of him in
Cairo in 1872; so that's that. Metrovitch vanished; and
H.P.B. tells us how (“Letters from H. P. Blavatsky to A. P.
S1nnett”, p.19o.). Mme. C. probably actually saw Metrovitch
when he was in hiding at H.P.B.’s, for we read on page 189
(ibid): “
All this mystery and precaution made Mme. C. open
her eyes and ears and she began gossiping and bothering
me to tell her whether it was true——what people said—that
I was secretly married to him, she not daring I suppose to
say that people believed him most charitably worse than a
husband. I sent her to grass, and told her that people might
say and believe what they liked as I didn’t care. This is
the germ of all the later gossip ”. ‘
Mme. C. showed Hodgson of the S.P.R. a letter (never
produced for profane gaze) wherein Madame Blavatsky is
alleged to say that she “had been filling a page” in Cairo,
1872, which she wished might be “torn out of the book of
her life” (S.P.R. Report, Dec. 1885, .3I5.). The Rev.
Patterson also referred to this “
page ”, in e Christian College
Magazine, April, r885. And, of course, the charitable once
more imagined the worst; and H.P.B. must have gone u one
in their secret opinion; car c’est comme cela avec cette bete—la.
Whether or no any such letter ever existed, unless forged by
Mr. Coulomb, is of no moment here. What concerns us is
that Madame Blavatsky herself says that the Coulomb knew
about Metrovitch. That Hodgson had made enquiries and
discovered Metrovitch’s political reputation is indicated by the
circumstance that he placed his dark reference to the “
page
”
to support his famous canard that H.P.B. was a Russian spy.
None the less, he expressed himself in a manner to awaken
suspicions of other kinds of mystery than political: “This
part of her history does not concern us at present [ l], excfl
that it proves the story of her Tibetan experiences to
fabulous”. Comprehend who may. The inference many
people drew was that he had discovered things in Cairo . . .
where he discovered nothin but the excellent opinion in which
Madame Blavatsky was he d by the Russian oflicials and the
colony there; his venomous remarks about all Russians sug-
I9
gesting that he had been received for what he was, a sleuth,
and “
sent to grass ”. However, he got the tongues wagging
in London and for a while H.P.B. figured as une grand:
amoureuse!
As well as being nobody’s business, the story is scarcely
supported. Count Witte’s memoirs that repeat the old gossip,
bear marks of adulteration; even facts that Witte must have
known are wildly misstated, and things he could not have
known, because they never existed, are stated as if eye-
witnessed. Besides the improbability that a Russian noble-
man would set so clumsily about family déboutonnage, a
liaison, as here described, lasting over twenty ears between
the famous
oiera-singer and a woman of gooci’famil —and
thatwoman t e ever-discussed Helena Petrovna—wou d have
been European gossip, the sport of every Society rag of the
pfrlifigll. Fifty years’ scavenging by the enemy as drawn a-
a
“Ephesian”, the Mysterious Monsieur, whose sense of
virtue and what not and so on seems so sensitive on this
int, tells us that somebody told him that somebody told
er that somebody told him that Madame Blavatsky had had
a child. The evidence—a photo of H.P.B. with a child—
was unfortunatelydestroyed by the Bolcheviks! “
Ephesian’s”
book contains some few hundred mis-statements, man of
them ap arently quite deliberate, and to any student 0 the
subject, e makes himself appear a dull, perky,sanctimonious
person devoid of conscience; next time he writes on H.P.B.,
he mi ht do worse than call in our old mutual colleague,
-the bri liant “
Charles Brookfarmer”, to do the documentation
for him; for the “friend” he mentions as assistant has let
him down badly.
But, let us accept
“
E hesian’s ”
chin-wag with the slander-
ous old Baroness as leadingus to the bosom of Truth; admit
the impossible—that H.P.B. had had a child. Did she
smother it, desert it? No. She took it to her own famil
and got it petted and loved, and had her photo taken with
it. She flew with it to the best physicians, and never left
it until it died.
*
'
i #
All this she did—and for a child that was not hers!
There is cast-iron medical evidence that she was never a
20
mother. If the certificate to this effect is not evidence, then
nothingany surgeon signs can be considered evidence. Olcott
published this certificate in 1904, while the surgeon was alive,
for Dr. Leon Oppenheim of Wiirzburg only died in 1912.
His certificate was witnessed by Dr. Med. Roeder, Royal
Medical Oflicer of the District, and it says:
“
As proven by
a minute examination, she has never borne a child ”. A
letter from Countess Wachtmeister to Olcott, only recently
exhumed from the Adyar catacombs, enclosed a second certi-
ficate given on Feb. 10th, 1886, a few days after the examin-
ation of H.P.B.”“ It adds that H.P.B. was never even pregnant,
and is only less valuable because it is given in English, and
is unwitnessed. Perhaps Adyar will see the necessity of re-
producing the original, for the enemies of Madame Blavatsky
are no more likely to accept mere statements from Adyar
than a Christian apologist to accept statements from the
Vatican, and, as in the case of the latter, every year that
passes lessens the value of documents that frequently change
hands. Fortunately, we have had a good deal from Adyar
in recent years in
Cphotographicform, and there is now access-
ible, from this an other Theosophical groups, so much cross-
correspondence that practically every question may be confi-
dently tackled by students.
* * 3
I cannot here give more space to this subject that has only a
hoot of importance as showing that H.P.B. was no fraud in
this matter either. I merely exclaim, “Grande amoureuse?
Bon voyage! Not a line of all her enormous production
breathes the breath of Aphrodite, but much breathes the
startled maiden aunt. When she writes to Sinnett about the
ladies who fell in love with Mohini, she cannot find natural
expression, she becomes literary, flies to the Bible and ancient
Gr-eece and Rome for arallels, and one ends in fits of
laughter over her han ling of this dreadful “Potiphar”
scandal.
Her “Confession”, that, as others have remarked, is no
confession at all, betrays the same ignorance. The magnifi-
cent introduction is a piece of herself, her genius, but much
of the rest is reminiscences of Balzac. She may have picked
“ “
Personal Memoirs of H. P. Blavatsky.” By Mary K. Nefi. (Rider)
ZI
u'
up a lot about immorality”
from the numerous persons
who sought her as a clairvoyant, but the truth concerning
herself is certainly that it suited her when young to be sup-
posed une galante while really she was delving into the occult
sciences and travelling here and there with both men and
women similarly occupied with the mysteries. Incidentally,
my opinion of the various itineraries given out is that they
are one and all “blinds ”. The Theoso hists who opine that
she was not in Tibet with the Master Eefore 1857 and, also,
that in that year, she was sent on an occult foreign service
errand, do not consider the degree of training required.
it IR =l=
Fascinating. But I must return to Hodgson, his “page”
and his obvious knowledge of the real position with regard
to Metrovitch‘ And what a painful position for H.P.B. in
India, in 1880, eight years later! If the Indian Government
had known that she had sheltered a revolutionary in Egypt
atga time when that country was running for revolt, things
might have gone disastrously for the infant Theosophical
Society. Small wonder if H.P.B. did wish that that page
had never been written and if she felt some gratitude to
Mme. Coulomb for keepin the secret! It seems likely that
H.P.B. may have asked er to be silent and that Mme.
Coulomb afterwards worked up the request into a letter of
confession. And I think that this secret was the only secret
there ever was between Madame Blavatsky and the Coulomb.
5.
The couple arrived at Bombay headquarters on March 28th,
1880. As H.P.B. and Olcott were just off for their first
Theosophical tour of Ceylon, and as a certain Miss Bates,
a journalist who had come with them from America, was
a poor house-keeper, this lady was given charge of the
Society’s journal, “The Theosophist”—and Mme. C. took
over the household. Olcott found a job as mechanic for
Mr. Coulomb, but the latter was
“
diflicult about em loyers ”,
and soon left. Meanwhile, he had begun to make is merit
felt at headquarters; he chipped and sawed and made and
mended and became gradually so indispensable as handy-man
22
that presently he was given a regular status in the house. He
was politely alluded to as the Librarian——of the library that
had’ still to be collected. There is no doubt that the couple
worked hard and meant to keep their situation.
But Mme. Coulomb was a jealous, resentful and morbidly
ambitious small person. She was supposed by the Indians
to be a bigot, but there are no signs of real religious bigotry;
she exploited piety. However, she positively did not believe
in the Mahatmas or that Madame Blavatsky knew any secrets
of occult science. Any phenomenon she could not explain
by fraud she set down to “spirits” or—Old Nick. Having
read a good many books on spiritualism, fortune—telling and
conjuring, having a certain mild education that included_
besides Italian, some knowled e of English and French and
her mind being a mere emfiryo behind the stuff in her
memory, the happenings at the headquarters irritated her.
For, although she and her husband had joined the Society,
she found herself excluded from the Theosophical mysteries.
The fact of this exclusion peeps out from many of her pages.
She knew, as others knew, what happened when it happened,
but she never knew what was going on. There is not a
shred of evidence that the most amateur c/zela, or aspirant to
occult knowledge, ever gave her a single confidence.
Her pages are madeiup of stories that were known and
archi—known, many of them long since published in the “
Theo
sophist” and in “
Hints on Esoteric Theosophy” and “The
Occult World ”. To these stories, she tried to fit an explan-
ation giving herself and spouse a conspiratorial importance in
these occult phenomena about which they had never been
told more than any other outside witness. Several astounding
phenomena, to which she fitted an “explanation” after
Hodgson arrived in India to investigate for the S.P.R., are
not so much as mentioned in her pamphlet. She left out
the yarn she told him about her one and only appearance
disguised as a Mahatma. She forgot that! _She forgot, also,
to narrate how she undid Professor Smith’s letter, that had
been sewn through and through with silk, and sewed it up
again by means of a hair. She never remembered this per-
formance until Hodgson began to put his questions. The
probability is that she had never heard of either of the
phenomena concerned before Hodgson met her in Madras.
23
There were only two chelas as witnesses to the first phen-
omenon, Mahatma K.H.’s appearance to Mohini at Adyar,
just before the latter sailed for Europe, Feb. 1884; and there
seems to have been no public reference either to this or to
the “sewn letter”, that Professor Smith received back with
the silk intact but with a Mahatrnic note inside, before
Mohini and Olcott gave their evidence in London to the
Committee of the S.P.R.
She remained an outsider. Her book shows that as late
as September 1882, after nearly three years of alleged intimate
confederacy in fraud—-she was reduced to guessing on the
subject of H.P.B.’s visit to Darjeeling, the circumstances of
which were known to several chelas at headquarters.
'
All these insular to such a clever person! In one of the
strangest passa es in her book, one that must have made the
padris realise at their brand would be hard to pluck from
the burning, she writes :
“
Having witnessed some very ainful
instances of peo le who have ruined their brains in ooking
for this hiloso lier’s stone (the Mahatmas), I tried to arrange
Theoso Ey wi out Mahatmas . . .
but instead of finding
reasona le people who might have helped me to carry it
out, I found only bigotry and obstinacy”. Her ambition,
as we see, was no small thing; nothing less than to run a
Theosophical Society on a plan of her own.
Where she ventures to invent a story around some phen-
omenon, her tale falls to pieces against the records. Many
pages of her pamphlet might almost be discarded; anyone
who had read the many accounts of phenomena given in the
“Theosophist” and elsewhere, could say what she says, if
they had a mind. She says, that Madame Blavatsky asked
her to tell Olcott falsely that she had seen a figure in the
garden. But what necessity was there for H.P.B. to bother
with lies about “figures”? Olcott had not only seen his
Master in speaking astral form in New York, but had met
him in the flesh at Bombay, before the Coulombs came, and
had a ten minutes’ talk with him about the business of the
Society (“ Hints” etc., No. I, p. IIO. I909
Mme. C. says that in order to reach the slit, she had to make
.a hole ‘in the boarded ceiling above, to pass the “whole
length of her arm to reach the cloth”. The hole, besides
being moveable, must have been big enough to pass the flat
‘paper mounted on cardboard, too. Those cloths hang very
foosely; cats get in them. Iust imagine the Coulomb lying
‘on the floor with her arm through the hole and jiggling to
_find the slit—and, once or twice, with several people present
to observe the tempest in the cloth! The common phen-
-omenon of an apport, of which there must be now about a
‘hundred thousand instances on record, was altogether too
much for the S.P.R., preaching the gospel of its patronne,
Madame Coulomb; but her miracles were believed merel on
"her assertion that she did them. “Madame Cou omb
:asserts . . .
”! For instance, one evening, the Dewan of
Cochin asked Madame Blavatsky for her visiting card. She
‘gave him one, but he said he wanted one phenomenallypro-
duced. In a moment, a second card fluttered down. Well,
’Mme. C. slipped that card through the slit. She says so.
She must have foreseen the Dewan’s challenge, or else
annihilated Time. She lets slip the evidence that she had
read about the phenomenon “
on page 107 of Hints on Esoteric
Theosophy”. '
6.
As might be expected, Mme. Coulomb’s amphlet is “all
«over the shop”; no worse, however, in is respect than
Hodgson’s Report, the which I was obliged to take to pieces
.and re—arrange, to save myself exasperation and the pages from
being turned and re-turned to rags~—no wonder that so few
:readers fathomed its vice!
Mme. C. prints as “Letter I.” a screed containing a
-desperate insult to a rather im ortant friend of the Society,
‘the Maharajah of Benares; but a though a good flashy send—off,
it is not first in order, even such order as one can establish.
T shall reduce these undated productions to as near chrono-
logical order as the references in them allow, although the
task is rather like dealing with letters from Bedlam. I have
no doubt left that Hodgson and the missionaries soon realised
that there were enormous “howlers” in these letters, and
26
thatthis was one of the reasons why theywere never published‘
in full, never given to Theosophists for examination of the‘
paper and ink—pa:t-marked envelopes, with one exception,
being lac/(z'ng!——andwhy no attempt was made to date them.
The “incriminating” passages were nineteen, mostly short,
sometimes only a few words written on scraps of paper; and
these were all there were to seize among seventy letters writen:
over a period of four years!
Of the nineteen, seven consist of six lines, or less, several’.
being of only two and a half or three lines; three, of eleven
to eighteen lines of ordinary epistolary matter, with from two-
to four lines of sudden leap into fraud at the
11:13: end, and,.
for all we know, on a separate sheet of paper; one as eighteen
epistolary lines, with a startling one and a half of fraud
splashed in the middle, at the end of a paragraph; three, of
eleven, thirteen and twenty—nine lines, respectively,are mingled’.
epistolary and fraud, looking sometimes as if genuine dom-
estic orders and references to real every-day events had been
twisted to seem suspicious——and these letters, precisely, were
exposed as inventions by Adyar witnesses whom they con-—
cerned; five, of nine to eighteen lines, apply to fraud, and they‘
read mainly like communications from a lunatic asylum; the’
last, the famous “
Sassoon telegram” letter, opens with sixtyr
one ordinary epistolary lines, and then comes a bolt from the
blue in the shape of fourteen lines relating to a proposed fraud.
These lines form the end paragraph of a letter of the paper‘
of which we have some description.
Mr. Gribble, the amateur caligraphist called in by the Rev.
Patterson after the “
Collapse” articles in the “C.C.M.” had‘
excited some indignation, was a retired petty judge and an‘.
occasional contributor to the Rev. Patterson’s journal. His
opinion of the possible existence of Mahatmas may only be-
guessed, for he takes care not to express it but only insists
on his impartialit .
We may safely enough guess that he-
could not believe IXl.P.B. to be anythingbut a humbug. But,
his training as a judge told in more than one instance and‘
he did not deny the evidence of his eyes. He said, with
reference to a sliding-panel shown him that it was
“
evidently‘
of recent construction” and that “it would be difficult to-
produce any phenomena by its means”. His pamphlet on
the handwriting frequently verges on the serio-comic, but,.
37
with regard to this letter of the sixty-one lines with the last-
paragraph sudden bolt from the blue, he seems to have felt
it incumbent on him to state that it was written on——two
sheets of grey paper and one of ink.
If the Theosophists had ever been allowed to examine the
paper of these letters . . .
but then, they were not allowed.
Major-General Morgan, a Theosophist,who had many letters
from H.P.B., demanded to see a “fraud” letter that actually
named him. This was the only time any letter was ever
shown to the Theosophists. He says in his “Reply to a
Report of an examination by I. D. B. Gribble”, given on
p. 119 of the Adyar Re ort: “What struck me at once was
the general character 0 the forged letter, that showed the
letters to be more sloping than in the true ones, and this is
exactly what the forget overlooked”. Again: “The letter
in question, which I examined in company with three other
persons, quite as competent as Mr. Gribble to pronounce on
the matter, is certainly a forgery.” ‘
28
II.
TI-n-: rmsr SIX LETTERS: allegedly from Simla, Sep-Oct. 1880.
I.
By May 17th, 1880, Madame Blavatsky and Olcott had
returned from the Ceylon tour to find Miss Bates and Madame
-Coulomb en a ed in a fierce domestic war for supremacy.
Miss Bates dgeciared that Mme. C. had tried to poison her.
This accusation struck the Colonel as sheer nonsense, but it
was with some difliculty that he persuaded a certain Wim-
bridge, who, with Miss Bates, had accompanied the Founders
from New York to Bombay——to join him in “forcing the
belligerents to consent to an ‘armed neutrality”’. Day by
day, however, things grew worse. In the middle of all this,
came an invitation to H.P.B. and Olcott from A..P. Sinnett,
_then Editor of the “
Pioneer ”, a Government organ. Sinnett
had long been interested in ps chical research, had joined the
Theosophical Society and had, already, in Dec. 1879, enter-
tained the Founders at his house at Allahabad. He was now
at his summer residence in Simla, and he invited them there.
They arrived in Simla on Sep. 7th, having left the house-
party in separate bungalows in the compound and at daggers
drawn.
as # at
Mme. Coulomb writes (P. 13.): “
When Madame Blavatsky
had decided to go to Simla, she asked me whether I would
have time to embroider three handkerchiefs with blue silk
letters. I complied with her desire, and worked the name
A. P. Sinnett on each of them.. Two were laid one on the
top of the other, and after carefully fastening the four sides
firmly, making the letters of the two handkerchiefs meet
exactly one on top of the other, the two were cut crossways,
thus dividing the name
‘
sin ’
[sic] on one side and ‘
nett’ on
the other. The third handkerchief was left uncut. One of
these handkerchiefs cut in two was left with me, the other
she took withher along with the uncut one. The phenomenon
was to be performed in the following way : Madame Blavatsky
was to bring round the conversation with regard to the
29
henomenon she meant to perform, then, taking the uncut
handkerchief,she was to cut it across with a air of scissors,
and then, by a Iéger dc main substitute the ot er half fellow
to mine; she would give it in the hand of Mr. Sinnett, pre-
tending that she had sent the other half to Bombay [by occult
means]. This léger dc main that Madame performs is facili-
tated by the large sleeves she wears. The two handkerchicfs
were cut, as I said, exactly one on the other, in order that
the part chosen by Mr. Sinnett would exactly fit one of the
two halves she had left with me; she was to send me a
telegram with conventional initials, and according to what
initials they were, I would know which part of the handker-
chief I was to choose, and in what place I was to put it.”
i # Ii
On page 30, Mme. C. gives a bit of advice to “
the public ”
:
“If the public desire to have an idea as to how the henomena
are performed, I would advise it to try and get a k called
‘
Memoirs of Robert Houdin ’, translated from the French.”
It would scarcely be surprising if therein were to be found
a handkerchief trick rather like the above, or if the copy in
the Coulomb’s library were pretty well thumbed!
7* III II
As a matter of fact, no henomenon resembling the above
is on record as done at Sim a or anywhere else. Olcott writes
that, soon after their arrival, “
H.P.B. drew out of a handker-
chief marked with her name a second one marked,by request,
with Mr. Sinnctt’s name in the same style of embroidery”.
This phenomenon was talked about, and doubtless, Mme. C.
heard of it some time. But there was another that she appears
never to have heard of. On Oct. 16th, H.P.B. produced at
a picnic, from a handkerchief steeped in a saucer of water, a
duplicate with Mrs. Sinnetf: name in the corner (“O.D.L.”
Vol. 2, p. 243.).
Having consulted her “
Houdin”, perhaps, H.P.B., accord-
ing to the Coulomb (P. 15): arranged a set of those “con—
ventional initials ”
to suit her personages. The scheme seems
to condemn the “
H.P.B.” of the fraud letters as an illiterate
noodle. However, “
she” took precautions to hide her
identity from a possibly unsympathetic world.
30
I.etter I. (P. 15.)
Si je vous télégraphie je sig-
nerai I. Morgan. Mes lettres
sont elles arrivées enfin? Mes
Iettres adressées A. ou Z. ou
B. ou n’importe uelle init-
iale? Ne les r ez pas de
race. Mes sa uts at amitiés
§Mr. Coulomb. A vous,
If I telegraph to you I shall
I
sign I. Morgan. Have my
letters arrived at last? My
letters addressed A. or Z. or
B. or any other initial? Do
not lose them please. My
salutations etc., to Mr. Cou-
lomb, Yours, H.P.B.
H.P.B.
.“ On a square bit of paper” says Mme. Coulomb, “are
drawn lines which are meant to represent a handkerchief, and
where the instructions written by Madame Blavatsky read as
follows :—”
Any letters
addressed S.?
veut dire’-‘ sin
(or) any letters addressed
(S. or D.) B. (Bridge) Any letters addressed
M. or G. S. or D.) Rex (Regina)
according to the Z.
number of the
alphabet
Il Signor Dio
Any letters addressed
D.? (v.d. net
It It III
I feel obli ed to put some stars between me and thismystery.
What I t ink must have happened is that Mme. C. and
consort had vainly tried to puzzle out in English some
foreign coniuror’s instructions, and to work out a" scheme of
initials to fit their plot and personages; and that this bit of
paper on which Mr. Coulomb was imitatin H.P.B.’s hand
under his spouse’s directing eye, had been rown aside and
the attempt abandoned‘; but that the paper having slipped
among the bundle sold to the Rev. Patterson, they had to
stick to it as being Madame Blavatsky’s “instructions”. The
Dio at the end sounds like an exasperated swear at the
unexpected difficulties.
4* Means.
31
At this period, the Theosophical Society was heavil under
Government sus icion. A detective was always on .P.B.’s
tracks, and her etters were certainly scrutinised. Olcott was
trying to get the detective taken off and was in correspondence
with the Indian Government. The notion of Madame Blav-
atsky sending telegrams from Simla Post—Office to Mme. C.
at Bombay TheosophicalHeadquarters, signed I. Morgan . .
.l
Almost needless to sa ,
the Coulombs net/er produced any
telegrams. Letters coul be forged, but telegrams from Simla
could not be forged; and so, the Rev. Patterson got none . . .
and accommodatinglyoverlooked this lacuna in the bundle of
“
proofs ”.
2.
Letter II. is on page 18. In the last aragraph and the
post-script occur two references that affor us an interesting
date and some e ually interesting speculations. I think that
the screed is made up of several enuine bits of news from
different letters, with a little bit of raud-plotintroduced. The
styleis not very like the style of H.P.B., but we cannot ex ct
too much, it would take a very clever writer to repro nce
H.P.B.’s turn of the pen. She did occasionally write about
Society with a big S, but with her own ironical salt, when
not abusive salt. Mme. C. says “Another proof of the
truth of my statement with regard to the non-genuineness of
the phenomena and the impossibility of their taking lace
without the help of someone else at the other end 0 the
line will be found in a paragraph of the following letter:”.
She refers to the little bit of fraud-plot, “Ni Z. ni B.”; but
the paragraph really worth noting is not this one, but the one
referring to the Rajah.
32
Letter II. (P. 18.)
Ma chere Madame Coulomb, Ie vous supplie...................
..
Igi la société est folle de moi. Les gens les plus hauts
places dans le gouvernement sont a mes pieds. Nous allons
etablir une branche anglaise, appellée, The Anglo-Indian
Theosophical Society, et laisser la Branche de Bombay allcr
gu déiable si les membres ne savent pas mieux protéger leur
0C1 [C- - - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Nous avons sept théosophes anglais de lus, et nous en
aurons une quarantaine avant de nous al er 5 Lahore et
Benares, ofi nous allons en visite chez Ie Raja avec des lettres
de recommendation des plus hauts offzczals.
Ni Z ni B? hein! Ah vous étes courageuse et hardie—
en paroles. Ainsi soit-il! Nous avons un de nos frére: ici,
et les phénomenes qu’il m’aide a produire laissent tous les
autres bien loin. Ie m’en fiche...................
..
[three lines of dots]
Les phe’noménes—jem’en moque. I’ai dans ma téte assez
de savoir et de science pour repousser tous les phénomenes
dans le back ground. C’est ce que disent L all, Hogg,
Grant, Fitzpatrick et méme Major Henderson, cfevenu rnon
plus grand ami et qui me supplie de l’accepter comme
, . .
theosophe.A Et savez vous qui ‘est Ma]or Henderson? ‘Le
chef supreme de toutes les polices et du political Fore
lgn
Dept. des Indes. Le personnage le plus redoute’ et le pus
influent ici, qui peut tout.........................
..~ ...............
[more dots]
Adieu———a revoir, A vous encore, H. P. Blavatsky.
Ce soir il y a un grand diner en mon honneur chez Mr.
Hume, ofi trente personnes du haut monde viennent pour faire
ma connaisance.
33
I give below, Mme. Coulomb’s heavy literal English,
although,of course, the French is fifty per cent lighter. “
Mad
after me
”
does not quite render fall: dc moi, but as the letter
is a “fraud”
one, it is better to allow Mme. C.’s translation
to stand.
“My dear Madame Coulomb,
I beg you ..........................................................
..
“Here the society is mad after me. The people in the
highest position in Government are at my feet. We are
going to establish an English branch called the Anglo—Indian
Theosophical Society, and let the Bombay Branch go to the
devil if its members do not know how to protect their
Society better. [dots] We have seven English Theosophists
more, and we shall have about forty before we go to Lahore
and Benares, where we are going on a visit to the Rajah
with letters of recommendation from the highest officials.
“
Neither Z nor B? Fine thing! Ah, you are courageous
and daring——-with words. So be it! We have here one of
our brothers, and the phenomena that he helps me to per-
form leave all the others far away. I don’t care a straw
about it ...............................................................
..
[three lines of dots]
“As to the phenomena I don’t care. I have enough
knowledge and science in my head to push all the phenomena
in the background. And this is what is said by Lyall, Ho g,
Grant, Fitzpatrick and even Major Henderson, who has e-
come my greatest friend and who entreats me to accept
him as a theosophist. And do you know who Major Hender-
son is? The supreme chief of all the police and of the
political foreign department of India. The most dreaded
and the most influential personage here, who can do every-
thing.
“Adieu—goodbye, Still yours, H. P. Blavatsky.
“This evening there is going to be a_ great dinner-party
in my honour at Mr. Hume’s, where th1rty”persons of the
high society come to make my acquaintance.
t it #
34
We have now an accurate enough idea of the several kinds
of injury the Coulombs intended to inflict.
The first paragraph seems genuine in content, but render-
ed in Coulombese. The second, “
Rajah ”, paragraph
must be reserved for the light it throws on the examination
of a later letter, No. V. Then comes the paragraph that
Mme. C. points to:
“Neither Z not B? Fine thing!”
We are to conclude that Mr. “Morgan” had telegraphed
these “conventional initials” so that Mme. C. could “choose
a part” of the cut handkerchief and “put it somewhere”.
Under the very nose of Major Henderson, the most dreaded
personage, and of Mr. Hogg, who was Post-Master General!
And while Olcott, so far, had vainly tried to get the spies
taken off! All this desperate, fatal intrigue—for a miserable
handkerchief trick! And while Madame Blavatsky was pro-
ducing handkerchiefs—-—with no—one “at the other end of the
line”! One may be excused a few shriek-marks.
Nevertheless, just precisely, the “instructions ”
do not say
what “Z.” means.
“
S. veut dire sin” and “D.v.d. net”,
but “Z” is left to conjecture. “B” means “Bridge”, and
would seem to wish to refer to Wimbridge; but what
“Neither Z nor B’? hein!” signifies, unless a little bit of
fraud-plot to sell to the Rev. Patterson, must be left to
M. Houdin or some other expert to elucidate. Fortunately,
Mr. “Morgan ”
didn’t “care a straw about it”!
The string of personal names, none of which could then
mean anything to the Coulomb, was easy enough to collect
later, as those of influential personages likely to become
furicus against the alleged writer, Madame Blavatsky, for
dragging them in.
as as at
The last paragraph and the post-script afiord us a date.
“
Major Henderson, who has become my greatest friend . . ”,
and, “This evening there is going to be a dinner—party at
Mr. I-lume’s . . .
”.
It was on Oct. 3rd, that the Sinnetts gave a famous picnic
breakfast at which occurred some astonishing phenomena; :1
cup and saucer were produced from between the buried roots
of a tree; a diploma of membership of the T.S. was pro-
duced for Major Henderson, who had said he would join the
3'5
Society if his diploma of membership were produced on the
spot, and who himself found one, duly signed, under a
bush; a water-bottle, one of four previously empty, was
suddenly filled (“Occult World”, p.66. and “O.D.L.”, Vol.
2,
p.232, with valuable additional detail.). But before that
eary picnic was over, the Major and H.P.B. had a violent
quarrel regarding the enuineness of the phenomenon.
Olcott says: “She seemed about to take leave of her senses
and poured out the thunder of her wrath”. Next day,
Henderson sent her an almost insulting letter. So, any
letter speaking of his friendship must date before the start
for the picnic of Oct. 3rd.
The Hume dinner—party took place that same evening; a
phenomenon that occurred at the table was described in the
“Pioneer” of Oct. 7th. As the letter says,
“
This
evening”,
we have to conclude that Madame Blavatsky, who ad
already been a month in Simla society and had undoubtedly
written frequently to her housekeeper, and who was at this
time in the thick of the most startling phenomena, and who
had had to depart with the others for a picnic brea/{fastsome
miles out of Simla—had devoted the break of day to writing
to the housekeeper a lengthy epistle of chit-chat. ‘hnd thus
she improves the shining hour on the
very morning of the
day when, according to the S.P.R., she ha planned to carry
out four most complicated fraudulent phenomena.
Well, let us on! The letter is clearly a combination of
bits from genuine notes sent by H.P.B. during the month,
with the Z-B mystery added.
3.
For the third letter, we must turn back to page 16.
Mme. C. and the Rev. Patterson seem to have differed in
their opinion as to the “splash” value of the screeds. She
plumped for one mentioning the Maharajah of Benares, but
Patterson places first this one that is really No. 3, and that
must have caused great annoyance to a certain Bombay
Police—Commissioner who had shown some friendliness to the
Theosophists.
36
The first part of the letter is certainly genuine. It refers
to a phenomenon suggested by a Captain Maitland. One
Sunday evening, amid a numerous Simla company, he had
asked Madame Blavatsky to try and send a cigarette to
Bombay by occult means. She agreed. To make it as
diflicult as possible, and beyond suspicion of collusion, he
selected a
‘spot on the statue of the Prince of Wales, opposite
Watson’s otel. A
telegram was immediately sent to the
Police-Commissioner, bro er—in—law of Maitland, asking him
to go and look for the cigarette. He good—naturedly went,
although there was a monsoon rain on, but found nothing.
It is likely enough that H.P.B., with a certain definite
intention, wrote as follows about the afiair to Mme. Coulomb.
Letter III. (P. 16.)
Monday.
“
My dear Madame Coulomb,
“Last night, Sunday, I wanted to show my friends a
phenomenon, and sent a cigarette tied up with my hair to
e placed opposite Watson’s hotel in the coat—of—arms (under
the Prince of Wales’s statue), under the horn of the Unicorn.
Captain Maitland had himself chosen the town and named
the place. He spent 13 Rs. for a telegram to Police-Com-
missioner Grant, his brother-in-law. The latter went the
moment he received it and—found NOTHING. It is a dead
failure, but I do not believe it, for I saw it there clearly
[clairvoyantly] at three in the morning. I am sorry for it,
for Captain Maitland is a Theosophist, and spent money over
it.”
Thus the first part of the letter. The content is clearly
genuine. H.P.B. describes in detail exactly where the cigar-
ette was to have been dropped. Why should she have given
all this detail next day to Mme. Coulomb, saying that she
does not believe the phenomenon to have been a failure?
The letter proceeds as though the writer had suddenly
gone wrong in the head:
37
“They want to tear the cigarette in two and keep half.
And I will choose the same places with the exception of
the Prince’s statue, for our enemies might watch and see
the cigarette fall and destroy it. I enclose an envelope with
a cigarette paper in it. I will drop another half of a cigarette
behind the Queen’s head, where I drop ed my hair, the
same day or Saturda. Is the hair stil there? and the
cigarette still under t e cot/er? Oh, Dio, Dio! What a
pity,
Yours faithfull ,
H.P.B.
(Note on the fly-leaf.) “Make a haf cigareete of this.
Take care of the edges."
“
On a slip of paper,” says Mme. Coulomb, “
which accom-
panied the cigarette-pa r referred to the following is written:
‘Roll a ci arette of t is half and tie it with H.P.B.’s hair.
Put it on t e top of the cupboard made by Wimbridge to the
furthest corner near the wall on‘your right. Do it quick.’”
It # =3
Passing over the little miracle of two persons rolling two
halves of a cigarette to fit—these orders are quite clear and
undoubtedl suggest a plot. Yet, for some unstated reason,
Iudge Grib le decided to exclude the “note on the fly—leaf”
as “unsafe”, and he did not even notice by a word the
“
slip of paper ”. He decides that Mme. Blavatsky wrote the
first part of the letter, and I should make no bones about
agreeing. It seems to me obvious that H.P.B., believing
that she had not failed, wrote to Mme. C.
begging her to
go and ascertain whether the cigarette had not allen down
somewhere. This is the explanation that H.P.B. gave to
Olcott, and it is the only one that could fit the first part
of the letter where she describes to Mme. C. exactly where
to look.
Mme. C.’s pamphlet was in press before Hodgson arrived
in Madras, or we might never have heard from her of this
“Maitland” phenomenon. On page 16, she explains that
Mr. Grant did not find the cigarette “for the good reason
that the person (Madame Coulomb) who was to put it
there never went near the place . . .
Had I said that I could
not make up my mind to do such a thing she would have
been furious, and I should have felt her resentment”.
38
There appear two or three difiiculties, besides the
detailed description given the day after the fact to the “
person
who was to put it there”. Madame Blavatsky had been in
Simla a month, and any instructions concerning this phenr
omenon must have been written and sent by post: no letter
of instructions was produced—doubtless because the Coulombs
absolutely ignored the circumstances, house, persons, etc.
Tlfiien, two halves of cigarettes rolled by two people would
not t.
Then, there is no record of any of these “hair” and
“cigarette” and “Wimbridge” phenomena at Bomba ,
to
which Mme. Coulomb refers as though they happenedyone’
a week. Not one little record! And, finally,after the Rev.
Patterson had published the letter above, Captain Maitlancf
wrote to the “Madras Mail”, saying that he, and he alone,
had selected the spot a few minutes before, on the Sunday‘
evening, among a crowd of witnesses.
0 Members of the S.P.R.l look at page 268 of Hodgson’st
Report, and see of what your Society was capable in 1885.
Knowing all the particulars given in Maitland’s letter, Hodg—
son used the incident, actually quoting Mme. Coulomb’s:
assertion that she was the person “who was to put it there,
but never went near the place”. Hodgson does not quote‘
the first part of the letter, but does use the “note on the‘
fly—leaf”, rejected by Gribble. Experts . . .
l
4.
Letter IV. (P. 18.)
Dated, “
Simla, 15.”. October must be intended.
“My dear Mad. Coulomb, Programme entirely changed.
We go to Amritsir and Lahore on the 21st, and I can sencf
you no more telegrams. Too thin. The things ought to be
allowed to remain permanently, i.e., for a whole appointed‘
week, and found there at any time during this week. Then—
change place and I, notified. The fiasco of the Watson’s hotel
[Maitland cigarettel] was too much. Did you receive my
two notes through Damodar? Enough if the cigarette is
found on the W. cupboard and the note I enclose on my
writing—desk. All things sent in red jacket useless-——exCept‘
hair perhaps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....
39
,Why Madame Blavatsky should not be able to send any
more telegrams is wrop in the m stery that the Coulombs
‘had not a ghost of a telegram to show. Except the genuine
news of the change of programme, the screed seems merely
..concocted to bolster up the previous ones, especially to prove
that Mme. C. was “the person to put it there” in the
.Maitland cigarette “
fiasco”!
5.
Letter V. suddenly remembers the handkerchief again,
after all this time. It must be remembered that these fraud
letters are only a few among the seventy that H.P.B. wrote
to the Coulombs in four years. If we had the ones in
between, that, admittedly, contain no fraud allusions, the
fraud screeds would appear like sudden, isolated whalespouts
in a domestic duck-pond.
Letter V. (P. 14.)
“
Ie crois que le mouchoir “I believe the handkerchief
«est un coup manqué. Lais- is a failure. Let it go. But
-sons cela, Mais toutes les in- let all the instructions remain
~structions qu’el1es restent in in statu quo for the Maha-
rtatu qua pour les Maharajas rajahs of Lahore or Benares.”
-de Lahore ou de Benares.”
There was no Maharajah of Lahore, and no-one would know
this better than H.P.B., who, immediately after leaving
‘Simla, was the guest for a week of the Maharajah of Benares.
It is easy enough to trace the Coulombs’ downfall on this
point. The sentence in Letter II, we go to Lahore and
Benares, where we are going on a visit to the Rajah, was a
genuine bit in some letter of domestic news; and it led the
ignorant Coulombs into a booby-trap. Madame Blavatsky
-seems to refer to only one Rajah of both cities. In their
perplexity, obstinately anxious to compromise Madame Blav-
atsky in the highest quarters, they take a safe line and write:
"‘
Let the instructions remain in statu quo for the Maharajahs
—of Lahore or of Benares ”.
The Maharajah of Benares one day brought his treasurer
-with him to H.P.B. and offered her what she pleased in
rupees if she would show him some miracles. She refused,
‘but as soon as he had left, did a number of phenomena
40
for poor visitors (“Old Diary Leaves”, Vol. 2, p.275.). The
Maharajah invited her to come again . . . as, no doubt, did
His Phantom Highness of Lahore.
One would have thought that this single screed would
have sufliced to put an end to communication between the
Rev. Patterson and Mme. Coulomb. A very few questions
would have thrown her into complete confusion over these
alleged instructions to humbug a personage who did not
exist. The least enquiry would have informed him that
Madame Blavatsky and Olcott had actually been the guests
of the Maharajah of Benares, and, therefore, that this paper
must have been forged by these ignorant servants. The only
possible conclusion is that any stone was good enough to
fling against Blavatsky.
# =l= *
And here again, we have a letter talkingabout instructions,
but not the tiniest line with the instructions. Yet, H.P.B.,
being at Simla all this time, they must have been written
and sent by post. Some unfamiliarity with royal palaces
and what might, or might not, be done therein, may have
made the worthycouple cautious of composing “instructions”
that would turn out only “too thin”. I have noted that
there is no record of any handkerchief phenomenon at Simla
that would have permitted of Mme. C.’s assistance, even on
the assumption of fraud; and that the two phenomena done
there were quite successful. Now, comes some more “hair”
and cigarette” and “Wimbridge” stuff:
“
Ie vous écrirai d’Amritsar “I shall write to you from
ou Lahore! Mes cheveux Amritsar or Lahore. My hair
feraient bien sur la vieille tour will do well on the old tower
de Sion (Mais vousles mettrez of Sion (but you should put
dans une enveloppe — un it in an envelope—a sachet of
sachet curieux—et le pendrez some peculiar kind—and hang
en le cachant) ou bien a Bom— it where you hide it) or even
bay. Choissez bon endroit et in Bombay. Select a good
écrivez moi '21 Amitsar paste spot and write to me at Am-
restante, puis vers le Ier du ritsar paste rertante, and then
mois 5 Lahore. Addressez after the First of the month to
votre lettre 21 mon nom. Ricn Lahore. Address your letter
de plus pour S.—il en a vu in my name. Nothing more
41
assez. Peur de manquer la for S.——he has seen enough.
poste, 5 revoir. Avez-vous I am afraid of missing the
mis la cigarette sur la petite mail, so 2. revoir. Have you
armmoire de Wimb——? Faites ut the cigarette on the cup-
donc quelquechose pour le boardof Wimb-—? Do some-
vieux, il padre di Damodar. . . thingfor the old man, Damo-
H.P.B.” dar’s father ........ ..
H.P.B.”
i It ‘I?
There was no phenomenon done on any
“
tower of Sion”
or anywhere “in Bombay”. Perhaps Mme. C. did not
succeed in “selecting a good spot”! The “cu board of
Wimb-—” plays absolutely no part in any Bom ay phen-
omena on record, neither was any hair ever found in any
“sachet curieux”. Nothing could better demonstrate the
ignorance of the Coulombs as to what phenomena really did
happen. As for doing “something” for Damodar’s father,
the only thing Mme. C. ever did was to massage his bad
leg. But every little “Cho s and tomato sauce” remark
helps. Hodgson utilised is one as highly suspicious.
H.P.B. probably wrote it in some letter as the Coulomb had
promised to use her skill on the leg.
Ii ii II‘
6.
Letter VI refers to the removal of the Bombay headquarters
from Girgaum to
“
Crow’s Nest”. Mme. C. was still looking
for the new house, and the first sentence reads naturally
enough.
Letter VI (.P 30.)
“
Ma chere Mad. Coulomb, My dear Madame Cnulomb,
Ie vous prie de vciller a tout I beg you to take care of
dans notre déménagement. everything in the renoval.
Choisissez bien la maison. Choose a good house. Let it
Qu’elle roit utilc; que la be useful. I.ct your mom be
vostra camera si trova sopra above that of a certain Mr.
la testa d’un certo Signore President. “Ed altra roba.”
Pres. a—altra roha. You know the rest.
# 1‘ ii
“Choose a good house. Let it be useful." Chops and
tomato . . .
42
Mme. C. comments: “I am obliged to mention these
seeming trifles because later on in my story, they will be
very important.” The room above the head of the President,
Olcott, did not become very important because it never
materialised. Moreover, Mme. C. is not supposed to be
mentioning trifles on her own account, but quoting from a
letter of instructions; but a slip more or less is not “very
important” in this gzicl1z':—rank with foul, futile brains-
that was allowed to serve to ruin one of the greatest women
who ever lived.
7.
On page 26, Mme. C. writes: “
Now, let me tell you about
the phenomenon known under the name of the cup phen-
omenon.”
This was the production of a seventh cup and saucer at
the Sinnett picnic of Oct. 3rd. Only six cu s for six persons
had been packed, the seventh being needed becausea seventh
person, a judge, rode up and joined the party at the last
minute. When it was found that there were not enough
cups, someone jokingly asked Madame Blavatsky to produce
one. She said that she would try, and presently told the
party that a cup and saucer matching the set would be
found buried in the roots of a tree; and there they were
found. The “Iournal of Science”, commenting on this
phenomenon, wrote, “The theory of fraud literally bristles
with difficulties”. But our friend, the redoubtable Major
Henderson, after having been presented with his diploma,
and perhaps realising that the Chief of Police simply couldn’t
be a member of the Theosophical Society, gave his opinion
that the cup and saucer might have been introduced through
a tunnel and then covered over. It seems surprising that a
Chief of Police would not have noticed at first whether a
tunnel were possible or could not even distinguish recently-
turned earth from earth that had lain for ages around the
roots of a tree: it was he himself who did the digging. But,
anything was better, no doubt, than having to proclaim him-
self a Theosophist! So, on page 66, 1st ed. of “The Occult
World”, Sinnett had to write: “
Someone conceived that it
was not scientifically perfect [as a test phenomenon] because
it was theoreticallypossible that by means of some excavation
43
below the place where the cup and saucer were exhumed,
they might have been thrust up into the place where we
found them, by ordinary means”.
Mme. C. quotes from the “Occult World” the whole of
Sinnett’s long story, and then concludes:
“The opinion of these gentlemen with regard to the
possibilityof the cup and saucer being thrust up into the
ole made for the purpose is perfectly correct, because this is
exactly the way in which he who put the cup and saucer
there explained it to me. This being the case, no further
explanation is necessary, because science has no business in
this phenomenon.”
Members of the S.P.R. may be slightly comforted one day
to note that even their Hodgson did not venture to reproduce
this as evidence in his Report. Yet his own explanations are
equally impudent. In fact, while prudently ignoring his
source of information, he not only repeats Mme. C.’s state-
ment in his own words, but slyly names her confidant as
Babula, H.P.B.’s servant. He seizes the opportunity to state
“on good authority”that Babula had formely been in the
service of a French conjuror, a canard that the “authority”,
Mme. Coulomb, had perpetrated, and that Hodgson had read,
on page 20 of her pamphlet. Babula was only fifteen, and
his former employer was the respectable steward of the
Byculla Club, Bombay (“O.D.L.”, Vol. 2, p.64.). VVhat
conjuring may have had to do, anyway, with digging a hole,
may be left to the S.P.R.
“The theory of fraud literally bristles with difliculties.”
However, there was Mme. C.’s declaration and italicised,
too. What more could be desired?
Well, it might have been more polite of the “Madame B.”
of the “frauds”
to have confided in, so to speak, her
bosom-confederate, and not have reduced her to tattling with
the servant!
III.
At “
Crow’s Nest ”, Breach Candy,Bombay. Dee. 1880.
1
H.P.B. returned to Bombay from Simla, Benares and other
northern towns on Dec. 28th; to “
Crow’s Nest”, the new
house.
Miss Bates and Mr. Wimbridge left the Society. Miss
Bates took to journalism, and Wimbridge was financed b at
Theosophist in an arts and crafts shop, through the kind
offices of Olcott, for which the gentleman proved duly un-
grateful. Mme. C. had gained the first step up and now,
in the new kitchen, reigned alone and supreme. Coulomb-
had been found different jobs by Olcott, but he was still.
“
diflicult about employers”. He was gradually working his
way completely into the house.
“For a few months”, writes Mme. C.
could not very well be used, so I made a jacket, which I
doubled, and between the two cloths I placed stuifing to
form shoulders and chest; thearms were only to the elbows,
"because when the thing was tried on, we found the long arm
would be in the way of him who had to carry it.”
I fear that readers who may have read the testimony of
the
many witnesses, both Indians and Europeans, who saw
the “ol Jew”, may doubt that I am transcribing correctly.
I am.
W It is
Extract from “Hints on Esoteric Theosophy”, No. I,
p.140, 1909 ed: “On the 29th of January, 1881, a Brother
stood with the moonlight shining on his face, and returned
-a salute.” [Distance measured, 17 paces; and Indian moon-
li ht!].
EP. 101: “Dec. 1881 . . . a man on the balcony . . .
moon-
light shining full on him . . .
Olcott and Damodar at once
‘recognised him as the ‘Illustrious’”. [Mahatma M. Rama-
swamier, Registrar of Tinevelly, who tells the story, met the
Mahatma in person in Sikkim, on Oct. 5th, 1882, instantly
-recognised him, and had a long conversation on Theosophical
:affairs.]
P. 105:
“
Mr. Ross Scott (Govt. engineer) suddenl saw
the figure of a man step into the room that was brilliantly
lighted . -. .
and at once recognised him from a portrait [of
M.] . . .
We all saw him most distinctly.” [Five witnesses,
.-and Olcott and Madame Blavatsky.]
P. 149: “This brother, Koot Hoomi, was sometimes
standing and walking in the garden here and there, at
other times, floating in the air.” This testimony came from
Martandrao and others, including Bhavani Shankar, recently
-deceased, 1936, after a life that may be called saintly even
in a land of saints. Hodgson uses his most brutal nib against
this pure young Hindu and his co-chela, Damodar; these two
youths must, in fact, unconsciously have made young Hodg-
son feel small, very.
Mohini’s evidence before the S.P.R. Committee, regarding
an astral appearance of Mahatma K. H.: “The figure came
so close that I think that if I had put out my hand, I could
have touched it”. Mohini, when replying to a question, said
46
that he had recognised his Master from a portrait; being a
chela, he was forbidden by the rules to say, without per-
mission, what might seem like boasting, that he had seen
the Mahatma in person. But, actually, he had met him in
Madras Presidency shortly before the astral appearance, and
was in good case to recognise him. (Letter from Mohini to
“Pall Mall Gazette”, Sep. 30. 84.) '
“An old Iew . . .
Madame gave it a little better appear-
ance . .
”!
Now, to have done with these lies as soon as convenient—
two widely differin persons were seen b the witnesses, two
Masters . . .
and lélme. C. forgetfully caims to have made
only one dummy.
Even this one dummy, she declares she destroyed “in a
fit of disgust at the imposture” (P. 42); and she says not a
word about ever having made a second “old Iew”. -
In fact,
she hurries rather disrespectfully past this masterpiece that
deceived so many highly competent Indians and Europeans,
disposes of it in half a page. And yet, it must have been
a remarkable creation. A cloth face, with painted eyes, that
could not only deceive dozens of ersons at distances of a
yard to a few yards, but that coul 0 dark and black-eyed
to suit Mahatma M. and fair and lig t-eyed to suit K.H.l
A dummy bust that could stay on while Mr. Coulomb
flitted up and down the rocky hillside, almost a precipice,
behind “Crow’s Nest”, floated over trees and a field of
thorn-—and, apparently, not even strapped on; for, once,
Dec. 31, 81, Mr. Coulomb seems to have got it OH, stripped
his robes, hidden these, taken a book and sat down quietly
reading in just the time for three excited men to rush up
a flight of steps. He must have left the room, and returned
to it too, as he was in Olcott’s quarters and could not hide
the dummy there. (“ Hints”, etc. P. 100.). All this risk
of an infuriated kicking from Olcott with immediate expul-
sion from headquarters for Coulomb, and, for Madame
Blavatsky, the end of her career, with exposure by Rama-
swamier, Registrar of Tinevelly—all this, just to dro a
letter over a balcony! Truly, in 1885, people could beieve
anything of Madame Blavatsky: but Ramaswamier’s state-
ment in “Hints” shows that Coulomb’s tale could not be
true.
47
i ii #1
The appearance of Mahatma K. H. to Mohini, althou h
it does not come in our period, deserves a special note, or
this was the occasion on which, as she told Hodgson, Mme.
Coulomb made her one and only ap arance as a “Mahat-
ma”. True, she forgot to mention is performance in her
book, but she remedied the blank when Hodgson appeared
in Madras with Mohini’s evidence to the Committee under
his arm. Babula, as I find, was away, wherefore he could
not be credited with the performance; and I expect to come
across some little bit of data somewhere to show that Coulomb,
also, was away, or known to have been out that evening——
since Mme. C. fills the bill. Someone had to be found to
fill it, Mohini being a dangerous witness to the reality of
the astral appearances. Mme. C. remembers for Hodgson
that she “dressed in the bathroom and crawled through the
double back of a cupboard that led into the Occult Room
and so got out on the balcony”
(S.P.R. Report, p.243.). She
must have experienced some difficulty in crawling through,
dressed in the dummy (destroyed two years before!) and
long robes and carrying a large bunch of roses—for the
cupboard was a_ bookcase with shelves! The lies in this
narrative are so complicated that I cannot deal with them
here. They seem to have driven Hodgson far along the
ath that led to his collapse on the mediumistic Mrs. Piper’s
iiosom. Briefly,Mme. C. gets in, but she can’t get out! She
tells the best tale she can, but it is a wild misfit, and
Hodgson has to su ply her with a plausible exit; so he says
that anyone might ave escaped by jumping down a twenty-
feet wall or climbing down with the aid of a twenty-feet
ladder. “Indeed”, writes this Immortal, “I have often
myself as a lad performed a greater ‘drop’ feat than would
be required for leaving the terrace without even the help
of a ladder ”. I do not expect to be believed faithful in trans-
cribing, so I repeat the number of the page: 243, Proceedings
of the Society for Psychical Research, December, 1885.
Mme. C., however, did not say that she, an elderly lady,
clad in Mahatmic robes and balancing a
dummzr head and
shoulders on her own, jumped down a twenty— eet wall or
even climbed down a ladder. -
48
2.
_
Mme. C. says that, during the spring of 1881, Madame
Blavatsky was cross and rageful. I daresay that she was.
She was engaged in a war with A. O. Hume, who had
become benevolently insulting; had a fortnight’s row with
Olcott who proposed to leave her alone for six months while
he toured Ceylon, and she dreaded to be left; she had been
in intermittent agony for many months with broken-bone
fever and rheumatism that swelled her arms to the shoulders;
the climate of Bombay killed her several times a week; there
was very little money in the camp; etc., etc. One mi ht
be cross, especially with the newspapers attackingand slan er-
ing one every week or so. It is probable, also, that in a
fit of irritation at the extraordinary bills Mme. C. resented
for pa ment, she told the Coulombs that they woul have to
buy emselves the quantities of extra bread they a pear
to have consumed
Mme. C. comments: “This phenomenon is so much more
important because according to Mr. Sinnett’s declaration it
leaves no room for doubt, and because he does not admit th_e
possibilityof anyone but his illustrious friend having written
the said letter. To this I shall say for the truth that Madame
Blavatsky wrote before me the latter part of the letter, that I
saw it addressed and given into the hands of Mr. Coulomb,
telling him to put it in the Astral Post Office. Concerning
the way in which the letter reached Mr. Sinnett, which he
assumes to have dro ped out of nothing, I must say that he
is mistaken there, because it was done in the following
manner: An ingeniously and well—combined trap was fixed
on the floor of the garret above Mr. Sinnett’s room; the
floor was a .boarded one, and between the boards was a
space sufficientlywide to permit a thick letter to sli throu h
easily. The aperture of the trap met with that of t e boar s,
so that once the letter was freed from the arran ement which
retained it, it sli ped down, and being heavy, id not flutter
in space, but fel right on the table before him.
“In order that you may easily understand how the letter
slipped through, I shall have to‘ tell you that the openin
of the trap was performed by the pulling of a string, whic
after running from the trap, where it was fastened, all along
the garret above Mr. Sinnett’s room to that part of the
garret above Madame Blavatsky’s bedroom, passed through
a hole and hung down behind the door and the curtain of
her room, which was adjoining to that of Mr. Sinnett”.
Unfortunately, this ingeniously and well-combined trap
shared the fate of “Mr. Morgan’s” telegrams: it was one
of the damning bits of evidence that the Coulombs did not
preserve. Mme. C. forgets to say what became of it.
Perhaps most people will be in my case of knowing
nothing about traps and, so, unable to determine whether
or no Mme. C. is talking nonsense, especially as she is vague
about the “arrangement” that retained the letter. What
does occur to me is that the ceiling was very high, so high
that, in order to reach the trap—door in H.P.B.’s room, it
was necessary to hold a ladder on a table (S.P.R. Private and
Confidential Re “rt, p.253.). As the string came through a
hole in the ceilriiig and hung down behind the door, there
must have been one or two, or several, feet of string perpetu-
so‘
ally visible between the ceilingand the door; visible to Olcott,-
dbctors, nurses, visitors, servants who entered Madame Blav-
atsky’s room. There were a great number of letters drop d
in.this guest-room, several under circumstances that ragneer
put the trap out of countenance; we shall come to these
presently.
But it is startling to realise that this ladder business had
to be done each time! There were usually five servants at
headquarters, but none of them ever breathed a word about
having seen Mr. Coulomb carrying in the ladder, not even
any who had left or been dismissed by Mme. C. Damodar
lived on the premises and, as Mme. C. represents him to
have been a dupe the whole time she was employed, he
must have been got out of the way on each occasion; yet, we
know that he was present, also, that he was almost never
out of thehouse, workin all day and late into the ni hts.
We know from Sinnett “Incidents in the life of Ma ame
Blavatsky”, p.185) -that the verandah—room'in front of H.P.B.’s
bedroom was a regular fair from mom to night, visitors
always waiting. No matter when Coulomb carried in -the‘
ladder, he must have been seen by someone, either from
inside the house or from the verandah and the gardens that
ran all around. However, he never was seen, and this fact
must suffice for us.
it is #
But, more objections suggest themselves. Sinnett’s room,‘
the guest—room, was rarely empty. When Madame Blavatsky
was away, later in the autumn of 1881, the room was occupied
by S. I. Padshah, and a letter dropped for him, not on
the big table in the middle of the room, where Sinnett’s
had dropped, but close b the bed. So trap and crevice
must have been moveable Adyar Report, p.72.). On another
occasion (“Hints on Esoteric Theosophy”, No. I, p.I52.),
more than a dozen people joined hands and stood in this
room waiting and watching for a letter; and this letter (a.
double letter, with enclosure) fell slantingly and dropped,’
not on the table, but on the floor; again, (Ibid, P. 145.), seven‘
people watched and waited, and the letter fell at the foot of
one of the party. And then, the Hon’ble Professor Smith-
51
of Sydney University, tells a disconcerting story (Ibid, P. 137.);
He says that, in Ianuary, 1882, seven months after the Sinnett
letter, Olcott said to him at tiflin that, if the Professor
should receive any letters during his stay at head uarters,
there might be some Mahatmic writin in one 0 them.
“I replied”, states Professor Smith, “
at there would be
'
no chance of that as no-one would write to me.’ Madame
Blavatsky then, looking fixedly for a little, said, ‘I see a
Brother here. He asks if you would like some such token
as that we have been speaking of.’ I replied that I would
be much gratified. She rose from the table and told us
to follow her. Takin in hand, she led me along the
verandah, stopping an loo ing about her at some points,
until we reached the door of my bedroom . . .
She then
desired us to sit down, and in so doing, took both my
hands. in hers. In a few seconds a letter fell at my feet.
It seemed to me to
appear first a little above the level of
my head. On opening e envelope I found . . .
the following
words written with red pencil: ‘NO CHANCE of writing
to you inside your letters, but I can write direct.’ ”
Quick work with the ladder! However, Mme. Coulomb
omits this phenomenon, Mr. C. offers no explanation to
Hodgson, and Hodgson himself finds it convenient to ignore
the whole business. He also ignores Padshah’s testimony.
One almost universal testimony on the occasions of these
rapport: is that the letters were first seen close to the heads
of the witnesses; not one mortal soul ever saw them coming
through the crevice.
Hodgson devotes many pages to the Trap and the Crevice.
Two year: after the house was abandoned, he went to Bomba .
And there was the Crevice! A huge Crevice: “I cou d
easily have pushed a copy of our Proceedings through it ".
This tallies nicely with Sinnett’s published statement that
his letter was on thirty-eight pages of heavy draft paper.
Members of the S.P.R.! you may read that on page 254, and
reflect that your predecessors were so fanatical as to accept
as evidence what would be rejected by the commonest
ever—growing, sneering, jeering, adopting any rabid sugges-
tion so long as this gave a lead to the persecution of Blav-
atsky. Thank whatever gods there be that the time was 1885
and not 1485, for this mob then would have piled up the
faggots!
4.
A moment in the company of H.P.B.
G. R. S. Mead writes of her in the Memoriam: “One of
the greatest proofs to me of H.P.B.’s extraordinar gifts and
ability . . . was the way in which she wrote her articles
and books. I knew every book she had in her small library,
and yet day after day she would produce quantities of manu-
script abounding in quotations, which were seldom inaccurate.
I remember almost the last day she sat at her desk, going
into her room to query two Greek words in a quotation,
and telling her that they were inaccurate . . .
the correction
of the words I objected to required precise scholarship. ‘
Where
did you get it from?’ I asked her. ‘I’m sure I don’t know,
my dear’, was her somewhat discouraging rejoinder, ‘I saw
it!’, adding that she was sure she was right . . . However, I
persuaded her that there was some mistake, and finally she
said, ‘
Well, of course, you are a great Greek pundit, I know,
but you are not going to sit upon me always. I’ll try if
I can see it again, and now get out’, meaning that she
wanted to go on with her work, or at any rate had had
enough of me. About two minutes afterwards, she called
me in again and presented me with a scrap of paper on
which she had written the two words quite correctly, saying,
‘Well, I suppose you’ll be a greater pundit than ever after
this.’”
'
And here she is, herself describing to Sinnett how she went
to see the Mahatmas on September 19th, 1882: “
Darjeelin . .
Had I not gone incognito so to say, till I reached the ills
and turned off the railway to enter Sikkim, I would never
have been allowed to enter it unmolested, and would not
have seen K. H. and M. in their bodies both. Lord I would
have been dead by this time. [She had left Bombay, suffer-
ing from boils and ulcers, terribly ill, and came back, as
K. H. said, “mended”.] Oh the blessed blessed two days!
It was like the old times when the bear paid me a visit.
54
-j-—
I-
1.4-
The same kind of wooden but, a box divided into three
compartments for rooms, and standing in a jungle, on four
pelican’s legs; the same
yellow chelas gliding noiselessly; the
same eternal ‘gul-gul—gu ’
sound of my Boss’s inext1nguish— '
able chelum pipe; the old familiar sweet voice of your K.H.
(whose voice is still sweeter and face still thinner and more
transparent), the same entourage for furniture—skins, and
yak-tail stuffed pillows and dishes for salt tea, etc. Well
when I returned to Darjeeling, sent away by them—‘out of
reach of the chelas who might fall in love with my beauty’,
said my polite Boss—on the following day I received the note
I enclose from the Deputy Commissioner warning me not
to go to Tibet!! He locked the stable door after the horse
had been already out.” '
One day, -maybe, the world will "begin to realise
that adepts do exist, have always existed, and always will"
exist, and that they are to be found if they with . . .
not
unless, even if you go after them with an army: and that
the marvellous creature called Helena Petrovna was one of
their chclax.
5.
Back to -these Coulombs and Hodgsons with their traps
and crevices and slits in the ceilin -cloth.
—
It is conceivable that the Couombs really believed that
Madame Blavatsky must have used a trap to drop these
letters or that Babula, her servant must have monkeyed up
somehow and pushed them through a crevice. The absence
of any such huge crevice in a room where the recipient of
the letter had only to gaze up to see, and the absence of
any
trap or marks of a trap would not trouble them years
later w en they were concocting their story. What simpler
than to say that there were a trap and a crevice and that
Mr. Coulomb did the trick?
It is possible, too, that Mme. C., with her eye at a
spyhole, saw H.P.B. writing on foolscap and even saw this
same foolscap later in Sinnett’s hands.
»This seems to have been one of several occasions when
H.P.B. vainly endeavoured to initiate Sinnett into the
mysteries of occult science. Sinnett described the incident in
detail tojrthe S.P.R. Committee; but they omitted all his
55
evidengte from the Private and Confidential Report! How—
ever, y one of the eternal “chances ”
that surround H.P.B.,
Hodgson uses a bit of Sinnett’s deposition, and just the bit
we need (S.P.R. Report, Dec. 1885, .258): “I had been
gxpegtingladleitterfr(;amdKoot Hooirii, but on
rpxy (ziirrival at
om ay .
1 not n one awaiting me at ea uarters.
I had written asking him several questions. I hadq got in
late at night, and on the followin morning I was walking
about the verandah talking to Ma ame Blavatsky. We went
into a room that I had occu ied as a bedroom—a big room,
with a
Ilfirgetable
Blavatsky whom the Coulombs ventured to attack. What-
ever henomenon they cannot for some reason credit to their
own raudulent participation, theycredit to his. Hodgson, too,
was very brave in attacking Babula. In fact, as Sinnett said,
he made of him a European celebrity, charging him with
feats of dexterity that would have made the fortune of
several Maskelynes and Cooks. But all the Theosophists
‘knew that he was a good boy. His devotion to H.P.B.
belongs almost to romance, and when she died, in 1891, after
:seven years’ parting, he did what he could—cut out an obitu-
ary leader in an Indian paper and sent it to London, with a
few words in the English he had begun to learn to pen a
bit: “I write this note with tears in my eyes”.
.7-
Mme. C., p.40; “Now, having given my readers as clear
an explanation as I could of how -the greater part of the
phenomena which took place at Bombay were done, I think
I may introduce to the public a paragraph by Colonel Olcott
in ‘Hints on Esoteric Theosophy’, No. I, p.96, which I
think will show to every reasonable person that the very fact
-of the Colonel’s rejecting the possibility of machinery con-
firms their existence; here is the paragraph:
“‘The Brothers mainly appear where we are simply be-
-cause t/zere they have the necessary conidtions. Our houses
. are certainly not prepared with machinery, but with a
special magnetism . . .
Sometimes they send every one of us
out of the house if they desire specially to magnetise the.
place.’
“With regard to the Brothers sending us all out of the
house, as the text says, the reason of this order, which is
always pronounced through their medium, Madame Blavat-
sky, is still more easily explained. If these injunctions were‘
not given, how could things be prepared? The long ladder
must be got in and placed to the opening on the ceiling
-to go and put [sic] the letter in the trap, pass the string
in the guiding—rings [more screw-marksl], try how it works.
All this demands privacy. And again, how could Keat-
Hoomi be taken out of the box to examine the damage made
:to his head from the last exhibition if people were not
58-
u.i-_.—._.,..
«
«
"notion of t e impudence of this scribb
sent out of the.apartment? . . .
We must admit that"all these
precautions are indispensable.”
I have uoted at some length to
give “my readers-" a
ing rogue, and of the
insufferable familiaritywith which the Rev. Patterson allowed
her to approach his congregation. _
But yes—“ we must admit that all these precautions were
indispensable”. The which makes it the more certain that
never was any henomenon
requiring the use of the ladder
performed in tiiat house always ful of people. fitill, if
the ladder were “got in and placed”, etc., when all of
us” had been sent out of the house, there would seem to
have been some sort of magic about! And thep, again,‘ if
the dummy could onl be taken out of.the box tt)‘CXafl‘llIlC
the damage” under t ese same precautionary conditions, the
appearance of astral figures near the crowded verandah, that
actually looked into H.P.B.’s bedroom, two or three times——
as happened—-in one evening, can scarcely be accounted for
by assuming that Mr. Coulomb, and then Babula, dressed
up in the dummy . . .
this one dummy that seryed for the
two different personages. “All this demands privacy.”
=I= 4: in
There follows a paragraph that is scented altogether‘of the
padri, and Mme. Coulomb may be absolved from writinglt;
“
As to what has been the motive of Colonel Olcott in
wrigonig‘
such a paragraph as the one referred to is easily underst ,
and leads one to thinkthat the First impression which occurred‘
to Colonel Olcott was that the opinion of serious people
would be -that these phenomenawere performed l)y.thC'lTlCt3‘?lhI}S
of some apparatus; but his bigotry and_ blind faith.111 15.
new doctrine forbade him to say that which his intuition had".
dictated to him, and he preferred accepting a theory which
will bear no testing to a rational certainty.
One cannot criticise Mme. C. as illiterate, because she was:
using a foreign lan age; but she was incapable of penning
the ‘above paragrap .
Even in some passages that I have
quoted as coming from her, the pen of a clerical colleague’
seems to have supplied more than a few phrases. A modicum
of scholastic training gone awry peeps out _Wh€l’€ “thc_V°rY_'
fact of the Colonel's rejecting the possibility of machinery
S9
confirms their existence”. The Colonel had a suflicient
motive; he was replying to the incessant attacks by these
very padris on the genuinc-messof H.P.B.’s phenomena. Olcott
said that Mme. C. could scarcely write a sentence in good
grammar. The Bedlamite composition of most of this parn-
phlet ma be partly accounted for by the circumstance that
the Con omb cou le were foreigners. He was a eleven
designer and draug tsman, could read English, and he seems
to have co ied H.P.B.’s handwriting fairly well; but there
must have een some desperate moments between these two
in their efforts to sustain each other’slies in a foreign language.
Not surprising that nearly all the “fraud” passages are
penned in French!
._.,_-.
IV.
FIVE Lnrnzns. Autumn, 1881.
1.
Mme. Coulomb is sparing of details regardin the house.
hold. In fact, except that H.P.B. was diflicut to please,
she sa s little about life at headquarters, where, as we shall
find, s e was not exactl a guardian of the angelic sort. In
August, 1881, H.P.B. l t again for Simla, this time as guest,
of A. O. Hume, with A. P. Sinnett, whose wife was in
England. Suddenly, Mme. C. sends u a red whalespout,
and a very curious one. In reading e extract she gives
allegedly from Madame Blavatsky, we need to reflect that, to
the very end, H.P.B.’s real letters prove, beyond all cavil, that
she regarded Mr. Coulomb as a most honourable and devoted
servant!
Letter VII. (P. 47.)
Car, sachez le bien, et je For, mark it well, and I
l’ai dit it Mr. Coulomb au have said it also to Mr. Cou-
chemin de fer. Pour les forcer lomb at the railway station.
5 me tourner I: do: il vous To force them to turn their
faudrait plus que l’exhibition back upon me will take more
d’un mannequin. I’ai mille than the exhibitionof a pup-
cordes 5 mon arc, et Dieu lui pet. I have a thousand strings
meme ne pourrait ouvrir les to m bow, and God himself
yeux 21 ceux qui croient en could’ not open the eyes of
moi. those who believe in me.
Si vous n’étes pas aussi If you are so blind as not
aveugle que de ne pas voir to see that even if you were
que meme me feriez vous le to do me the greatest injury
plus grand mal en votre pui- in your power—and you
ssance—-et vous savez ce que know what it is—you would
c’est—vous ne changeriez pas not change my position by an
ma position d’un pouce; que inch; but that I should ever
je pourrais erdre P—et B— lose P—and B—n.ez/er,neither
jamai: ni e C—ni D—ni the C—nor D—nor S——.
S—.
I # 5K
61
And with this unexhausted alphabetical stretch, comically
reminiscent of the “
Z nor B, hein?”——-with this letter in her
possession, Mme. C. allowed herself to be bullied over trifles
such as the bread! However, the point even more noticeable
is that the extract represents I-I.P.B. as in a fury after bein
menaced (and when one reflects what that fury would be!
and departin —leaving the “puppet” in the enemy’s hands
to be “exhigited” at their discretion! Idiocy would not
suffice in accepting such “evidence”; malice would have to
be added.
What was happening at -this period is indicated in a letter
from Col. Olcott to Mme. C. (P. 48). The lady re roduces
this to show “
my readers ”
that she had been piouslly desir-
ous of warning Europeans, at least, about the frauds at head-
quarters:
“Colombo, Sunday, 25th September (1881).
“
My dear Madame Coulomb, [a line of dots]
“Another request I have to make. Kindly abstain from
talking about us and our religious views with the Rev.
Bowen, who is, notwithstanding all his personal merit, our
bitter enem ; and with the young men in the house——Padshah
and Dame ar—with whom you can never agree on religious
subjects. You are entitled to your own opinions, just as we
are, but why make strife and trouble in the house to no
purpose? . . .
I would also, if I were you, avoid discussing
the Society with any outsider, no matter whom; for it looks
bad that one so intimately connected with us as yourself,
should be thought to be so totally at variance with the views
and objects of the Society’s Founders. Pardon the plain
speaking of a friend.
I most sincerely hope that by this time Mr. Kassender has
come to a just arrangement with your good husband.
“Faithfully,yours, H. S. Olcott.”
In “Old Dia Leaves ”, Olcott repeats a statement made
by Major—Genera Morgan to the Adyar Defence Committee,
namely, that Mme. C. had, in 1881, tried to sell “
secrets” to
the “
Bombay Guardian ”, a journal edited by the Rev. Bowen,
who seems to have sent her packing. This late publication
of Olcott’s letter, under the auspices of the Rev. Patterson,
62
looks like a shot at poor Mr. Bowen to show him what a
prize he had thrown away. ‘
Olcott’s letter indicates the general opinion that Mme. C.
was a bad-tongued old fool, and her good husband not to
blame for her outbreaks. This opinion seems to have been
held to the end and largely accounts for the fact that the
domestically precious couple were kept on.
2.
No sooner was H.P.B. gone, than Mme. C. had begun to
vent her rage to rule on Damodar, who had long been an
inmate at headquarters, and on S. I. Padshah, a Parsee poet,
who had joined the Society and had been invited to occupy
the guest-room until H.P.B.’s return. She made life wretched
for them. It was at this period that she began openly to
declare that the phenomena were done by the help of the
Devil; not very complimentary to herself and spouse if it
were they who assisted with the “
puppet”.
=I= # '%
Apparently oblivious of the recent threats about the
“puppet”, or perhaps thinking that Mr. Coulomb had had
his chignon sufl-icientlydressed “at the railway station”, and
would threaten no more—the “Madame Blavatsky” of the
fraud letters confidinglywrites from Simla.
Letter VIII. P. 44.)
“
Ma chere Amie, Ie n’ai
pas une minute pour répon-
dre. Ie vous supplie faites
parvenir cette lettre (here en-
closed) 5. Damodar in a mir-
aculous way. It is very im—
portant. Oh, ma chere, que
je suis donc malheureusel De
tous cfités des désagréments
et des horreurs.
“
Toute a vous, H.P.B.”
“My dear Friend, I have
not a minute to_ reply. I beg
Zilioiiajmf,i§’§m§fi§§ 92°’:
miraculous way. It is very
im ortant. Oh my dear, how
un appy I aml on every side
unpleasantness and horror.
“
Yours entirely,H.P.B.”
The really important thing must have struck Hodgson as
exceedingly “‘unpleasant”, namely the fact that this note pro-
3
duced by Mme. C. indicates Damodar as merely a dupe and
not a confederate.
A second important thing is that Damodar testified to the
Adyar Committee (P. I03, et scq.), with a wealth of detail
that must seriously have pained him as a chela speakin of a
Master, that, in four years, he had received only four letters
from Mahatma K.H. during all the many absences of H.P.B.
The first of these concerned a letter he had received from his
father only a few hours before, and this Mahatmic letter was
written in Hindi. The second referred to his troubles about
a newspaper incident that had occurred that same morning,
H.P.B. bein at Simla. The third letter fell in presence of
Mr. Coulomfi,but while this gentleman had one hand engaged
with a cigarette and the other with a match. Transcendental
conjuror as Coulomb figures at times, neither he nor anyone,
Damodar declared, could have supplied the very private
contents of the letter. The fourth dates 1883, out of our
period. It was received in presence of other chelas under
circumstances that, if it were fraudulent, would have obliged
Madame Blavatsky to increase the speed of the Govt. mail
from Adyar to Ootacamund by twenty-four hours.
3.
Letter IX. (P. 42.) aw. Vt. 3 96 1277
The reference to Padshah at headquarters dates this letter
as in autumn, 1881. It is
veg’ long, so I shall break it up
and comment wherever the ba lin taradiddle gives a chance.
Mr. C. has evidently been quite orgiven for his little threat
to exhibit the puppet and ruin the Society, for he is included.
“
Mes chers Amis, Au nom
“
My dear Friends, In the
du ciel ne croyez pas que je name of heaven do not think
vous oublie. Ie n’ai pas le that I have forgotten ou. I
temps matériel pour respirer have not even time to reathe
—voila tout! Nous sommes —that is all! We are in the
dans la plus grand: crisc, et greatest crisis, and I must not
it ne dais pas PERDRE LA LOSE MY HEAD.”
TET .”
I pause to agree with Damodar’s remark to the Adyar
Committee that there was no particular crisis on during
64
H.P.B.’s 1881 Simla visit; and I’ had noted In opinion long
before reading his testimony. H.P.B. had e usual rows
with Hume, whose est she was, and she may have written
to Madame Coulom something about it by way of letting
off steam; but there was nothing about which she “
dared ”
not write. The following lines are sufficient daring!
“
Ie ne puis ni ose rien vous
écrire. Mais vous devez com-
prendre qu’il est absolumtnt
nécessaire que quelque chose
arrive in Bombay tant que je
suis ici. Le Roi at Dam.
doit/ent voir et recevoir la
visite d’un de nos Fréres et—-
s’il est possible que le premier
regoive une lettre que j’enver-
rai. Mais les voir il est plus
nécessaire. Elle devrait lui
tomber sur la téte comme la
premiere et je suis en train de
supplier ‘Koothoomi’ de la
lui envoyer. II doit battre le
fer tant qu’il est chaud.”
Hodgson says, “Madame
‘
King’
was meant Padshah ”.
called Padshah “the King”.
“I cannot and dare not
write anything to you. But
you must understand that it
is absolutely necessary that
something should happen in
Bombay whileI am here. The
Kin and Dam. must see one
of e Brothers and receive a
visit from him; and if pos-
sible, the first must receive a
letter which I shall send. But
to see them (the Brothers) is
still more necessary. The letter
must fall on his head like the
first, and I am begging ‘
Koot
Hoomi’ to send it to him.
We [sic: he] must strike
while the iron is hot.”
Coulomb asserts that by the
H.P.B. replied that she never
Padshah, himself testified to
the Adyar Committee. Unfortunately, only extracts were
given in the Report, a profound mistake; still, wehave the
essential. Padshah stated that he only received two letters
from Mahatma K.H. in all his years of probation; and one of
these came while H.P.B. was in the house. The other came
while H.P.B. was at Simla, I881; K.H.’s letter to Padshah
about a poem was written over a sheet of a letter from
Sinnett to Padshah. Sinnett’s writing, still showing through
in places, had been partially “faded out”; and I think that
most critics would agree with the poet that the K.H. style
and matter do not suggest Madame Blavatsky.
The “fraud”
letter goes raving on:
65
“Agissez indépendamment
de moi, mais dans les habit-
udes et customs des Fréres.
S’il pouvait arriver quelque
chose 5. Bombay qui fasse
parlertout le’monde——4:e serait
merveilleux! Mais uoi? Les
Fréres sont inexora les. Oh,
cher M. Coulomb, sauvez la
situationetfaites ce qu’ils vous
demandent.”
“Act independently of me,
but in the habits and customs
of the Brothers. If something
could happen in Bombay that
would make all the world talk,
it would be grand! But
what? The Brothers are inex-
orable. Oh, dear Mr. Cou-
lomb, save the situation and
do what they ask you.”
But what? Who are these “inexorable Brothers”? Mr.
Coulomb himself, according to his own statements! He was
“
Koot Hoomi ”, with a dummy head on. And he is asked
to “act” according to his own‘ “habits and customs”!
but an almost exact date for a conversation on the subject
between him and H.P.B. is given. Mme. C. would have no
difficulty at all in concocting a letter to fit the period. For
the rest, it is my opinion that Mme. C. had got hold of some
genuine letter from H.P.B. to Damodar or Olcott, saying
-that Hume desiredto see Mahatma K.H., but that the Chiefs
were inexorable and that K.H. would not be permitted by
the occult laws to appear to Hume. All this is borne out b
‘the “Mahatma Letters” on this question. The Coulom
‘could only have got hold of the information by eaves-dropping
‘of some kind, and some of her phraseology suggests that she
.pilfered a letter.
“Comprenez done que. je -“Understand then that
4.
Letter X.
“Ma chere Madame Cou-
lomb, Il m’est impossible
d’envoyer cela poste restante,
car je crois que Mr. Hogg
suit tout ce qui re purse (2 la
paste, et une lettre de moi a
vous p.r. provoquerait tout de
suite un soupcon.
Envoyez moi donc l’adresse
de Mr Coulomb £1 son maulin,
le nom du propriétaire, et je
pourrais adresser 15. Enfin je
vous envoie cela de la part
d’un Mr. Henri Morel, in-
génieur frangais. Dites que
c’est des projets de machine
qu’il vous envoie par mon
entremise, et j’écris la meme
chose 5 Damodar.
“My dear Madame Cou-
lomb, I find it impossible to
send this poste restante, be-
cause I think that Mr. Hogg
know: everythingthatgoes on
in the post-office, and a letter
from me to you p.r. would at
once excite suspicion.
Then send me Mr. Cou-
lomb’s address at his mill, the
name of the owner of it, and
I shall be able to address
there. In a word, I shall
send you this on the part of a
Mr. Henri Morel. Sa that
they are plans of machiner
which he sent you through
me, and I write the same
thing to Damodar.
From the lines of dots, we may infer (1) that the omitted
sentences were irrelevant to the plot, and maybe Madame
Blavatsky merely broke 03 to remind Mme. C. that Monday
was washing-day; (2) that they related to the plot, but that
Mme. C. wished to spare
“
my readers” something too
horrible for print; (3) that the Rev. Patterson considered them
“
too thin”; (4) that the dots signify nothing but Mme. C.’s
dramatic itch.
Nothing ever seems to have been heard of any Mr. Henri
Morel, French engineer, neither, apparently, did the Rev.
Patterson use any third dc rec method to extract from Cou-
lomb what were these “
plciins of machinery”. All remains
wrapped in mystery.
68
-“ Per l’amore de San ]iu-
seppe fatte Pafiare bcne. Il
y a deux lettres et un paquet,
il faut les délivrer les deux a
leur adresse, s’il était seule-
ment possible de faire tomber
le paquet et la lettre en meme
temps sur le nez du Roi, cc
serait magnifique. Quant 5
l’autre——bahl Ie le laisse a
votre discretion.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
For the love of St. Joseph
do the thingwell. There are
two letters and a parcel, the
two must be delivered to their
address. If it were possible
that the letter and the parcel
should fall at the same mo-
ment on the nose of the King,
it would be ma nificent. As
to the other—I 0 not care! I
leave it to your discretion.
More washing-day, erhaps. As has been stated, only one
letter came for Padsha from Simla, and no packet; so, even
for the love of St. Joseph, Mme. C. does not seem to have
“
done the thin well”. A. O. Hume published his belief
that Madame Bavatsky never wrote such letters, for, what-
ever she was, she was no fool.
But, on the assumption that she did write them——how
painfully at fault was -the vigilance of Mr. Hogg, Post-Master
General! Not only did he know nothing that was going on
in his post-ofl'-ice, not only did he let slip this incriminating
letter to the
Theosolphical headquarters, but every one of
the rest! Did his al knowing eye bend over the letters and
parcel sent from Simla to Coulomb, a foreign mechanic (who
ived at the Theos. headquarters) “
at his mill”? No. And
a bomb might have been in that packet! It must be admitted
that by producing these letters, if genuine, Madame and Mon-
sieur Coulomb conclusively prove that both Mr. Hogg, and
Major Henderson, Chief of Police, with the whole Indian
C.I.D. at his orders, were criminallybelow their appointments.
Here was a highly suspected Russian woman sending con-
spiratorial letters galore, and this during the years when we
were fearing a Russian invasion of Afghanistan. And nobody
"
pinched ”
her! -To whom else may she not have written?—
and on subjects far more devastating to the British Empire
than “
puppets ”
and “
cigarettes ”
and “
hair ”l Who knows,
WHO KNOWS what Mr. Henri Morel’s plans of machinery
did not cost us in blood and treasure in the year 1881?
I leave it to the Indian Government.
59
5.
Letter X1 is in English—-—up to a certain point; we shall
see what point. -
Letter XI. (P. 41.)
“My dear Mme. Coulomb, I am obliged to remain till‘
the 25th of October, as I can make 2_oo Rupees, offered me by
the Foreign Office for translating a book of Russian statistics.
Say so to Damodar. Don’t give yourself the trouble of setting
the house. When I leave here, I will have to stop at various
places, as I have promised to pay visits to several persons,
and have to see some Fellows on my -way back. I maybe
detained till end of November. I cannot go to Ceylon now.
In Ianuary, I will go to Calcutta-——to Mrs. Gordon—to establish
a branch, and I want Olcott to come back and go together
to Bombay again from Calcutta. I may not go to Ceylon
before the spring. '
“
Say to Damodar that his idea of establishing head uarters
at Simla is absurd. He must have been influenced y Mr.
Hume (magnetically)as it is Mr. Hume’s hobby. If I change
my headquarters——and we have to do it, for I hate Bombay—
I will have headquarters at Calcutta and Ceylon, going to
Simla every summer for two or three months. The rent for
a cottage of three rooms is 2,000 rupees, and everything dear
in proportion. Hume and Damodar are both crazy.”
Iv So far, credibly what a lady might write to her major—domo.
But then, without so much as a dot, comes a screech in
French :
~
“Oh, mon pauvre Christofolo! Il est done mort, et vous
llavez tué? Oh! ma chere amie, si vous saviez comme je
voudrais le voir revivre!
: “
Ma benediction 5 mon pauvre Christofolo. Toujours a
vous. H.P.B.”
_,
(“Oh, in poor Christofolol He is dead then, and you-
have killed im? Oh my dear friend, if you only knew how
I would like to see him revive!
I
“
My blessing on my poor Christofolo. Ever yours, H.P.B.'’)
5} II !l=
7o‘-«
Mme. C. explains in a footnote: “Christofolo was our
‘occult name’ for the doll (Koot-Hoomi); I had burnt him;
in a fit of disgust at the imposture”. '*
So the “puppet” was gone. This puppet that Monsieur‘
and Madame had been threatening to exhibit, but did not.
exhibit, even to the Rev. Bowen, even to the “
Bombay Gaz—~
ette” that would have made it instantly world—famous . .
,
this Marvel that could deceive the most competent persons
and change from one Mahatma to another!
Yet—-the appearances continued. In fact, those to Rama--
swamier (M.), Ross Scott
house is bought, and asks me when I am coming. Tell
Colonel, I beg you, to get ready, and not to make a fool of
himself by saying that he has ‘nothing to do with that’.
He has fired up and taken offence at nothing, and now he
sulks. Tell him that if he plays me this trick, I shall not
return at all, there!”
The “house” referred to was the
(present headquarters at
Adyar, Madras. Subba Rao was con ucting the negotiations
for buying the
propertgv. The letter indicates that Mme. C.
wasoccasionallyused y H.P.B. and Olcott as a go-between,
_a kind of bufier, during their differences of opinion; an
indiscreet course of action, and that finally encouraged the
housekeeper to “boss” them both to some extent.
:‘ Baboula is hardly convalescent. Poor boy, he was on the
point of death, and it is now a month since he fell ill, and
it is only at this time that I find out how useful and necessary
he is to me. I can tell you that I have suffered a cat
deal, sick as I am, and all alone. It is extremely cold ere.
I shall leave this in three days. I shall pay a visit of a few
days to Mrs. Gordon in Calcutta, and then I shall 0 to
Sinnett at Allahabad. The little one is a real jewe, but
the big one is an imbecilejealous, quarrelsome and doubting,
etc.” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - - - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
These dots, that always come just when the plot is
thickening.
“The “imbecile” referred to in the sudden whales out
was Mr. Casava Pillay, who testified to the Adyar De ence
Committee (Report, p.87, et seq.). In Vol. I. of this “De-
fence” series, I trace the story of H.P.B.’s trip to the Hima-
layas, but it might well take a long section all to itself; maybe
it will one day. This journe makes one of the most fascin-
ating among the many thrillingTheosophical histories (of
the which, to my perennial amazement, I find some Theo-
sophists almost as ignorant as the outside publicl). How
H.P.B. and Pillay and a chela sent from the Nilgherries to
conduct her started from Bomba together, and how H.P.B.
was whisked ofl, apparently at the next station, for we find
72
.
...-,......._..—«
4-.~.-«
-
4
.,
-33
Pillay travellin all alone up north and believing H.P.B. to
be still at Bom ay! . . .
but this must be reserved for another
day. Mme. C.’s page 49 states some of her invaluable o in-
ions about Mahatmas and Chelas. She seems to have tffzne
a li-ttle eaves-droppin when the party started north, but her
efforts to appear we l-informed merely serve to show how
completely she and her husband were left out of the myster-
ies. She tries to represent Pillay,“
the big one ”, and Babaji,
“
the little one ”, as falsely playing the c/zcla at Darjeeling.
Q Q Q
Pillay states that he had seen Mahatma K.H. in vision
repeatedly since 1869 in his native Nellore, where he was
Inspector of Police. In 1881, he joined the T.S. In 1882,
he received at Bombay headquarters a Mahatmic communi-
cation (“Letters from the Masters”, Vol 2, p.II6.). The
same night, he was visited by K.H. in astral form in his
room and had a conversation with him in Telegu, during
which the Mahatma desired him to proceed to Darjeeling and
meet him in a place beyond the Himalayas. Every detail
of this adventure is found borne out here and there in. the
records. What concerns us here is Pillay’s testimony con-
cernin himself as
“
the imbecile”. He states:
“T e letter published, must from its reference to my pre-
sence at Darjeeling, have been written about 26th, 27th or
28th of September, 1882, as I arrived there on the 27th. But,
from its mention of Babula’s illness and the statement that
Madame Blavatsky ‘would leave Darjeeling within two or
three days’, it must clearly have been written about the 20th
or 25th of October. Babula fell ill two or three days rior
to my arrival on the 27th, and continued ill a month. I the
letter was written towards the end of October, there was no
necessity for Madame Blavatsky (who knew perfectly well
I was then at Nellore and had written me letters dated Oct.
9th and 13th), to write about me to Madame Coulomb——who
saw me on my return to Bombay.” ‘
There is what comes of concocting letters about persons
when you are not informed of the circumstances. Perhaps
Mme. C. had some doubts herself as to the sufficient proof
of fraud in the above, for she offers two lines of washing-day
dots and then something quite unmistakeable:
73
"
“Veuillez, O Sorciere 31
mille ressources, demander a
Christofolo quand vous le ver-
'rez de transmettre la lettre
‘ci-incluse par voie aérienne
astrale, ou n’importe com-
ment. C’est trés important. A
vous, ma chere. Ie vous em-
brasse bien.
Yours faithfully,
LUNA MELANCONICA.
I
“Be good enou h, 0 sor-
ceress of a thousan resources,
to ask Christofolo, when you
see him, to transmit the letter
herewithenclosed, by an aerial
or astral way, or it makes no
matter how. It is very im-
portant. (My love) to you,
my dear. I embrace you.
Yours faithfully,
LUNA MELANCONICA.
I: you: supplic FAITES LE I beg you DO IT WELL.”
BIEN.”
an: :1: as
We never hear to whom this “very important” letter
was addressed, or how it was delivered, but “anyhow”
gives a considerable scope for operations, and we may con-
clude that it was carefully delivered in this manner. The
same kind of reasoning, applicable to so much in this
pamphlet, may help us to settle the question—“ What did
LUNA MELANCONICA signify?” Mme. C. says on page
62 that it meant the hole at the back of the “Shrine”, but
here above, she seems to offer it to “my readers” as the
signature of Madame Blavatsky. Also, she says that “Christo»
folo” now means Mr. Coulomb. Bedlam! So murmuring,
“Anyhow”, I pass on.
2.
After Madame Blavatsky had left for Darjeeling, another
chela, Ramaswamier, started after her by order of his Master,
and this Master he met personally in Sikkim, on October 5th.
Perhaps the most precious of Mme. C.’s opinions would have
been that regarding the identity of this Mahatma, but, after
raising expectations, she becomes infected with mystery and
retires with sealed lips (P. 49):
“Mr. Ramaswamier Iimention, because I hope soon to be
able to smell the aura of the Mahatma he met on horseback
on the territory’ of Sikkim.”
I searched carefully, but found not another word of en-
lightenment about this. It is more than possible that she did
74
invent some yarn that even the padris found rather “
too thin”,
and cut out, the lady’s acquaintance with things as they
might happen in Sikkim being inconsiderable. “Anyhow”,
we hear no more. Instead, she pens a few dark, but vague,
remarks about Pillay, the which prove once more that she
was told nothing whatever about the chelas and their journey,
was left a complete outsider; and this, after nearly three
years of faithful confederac in fraud! Indeed, she declares
inconse uently, that “all these absurd mysteries disgusted”
her an Mr. Coulomb so much that they decided to leave
the Society and remain aloof in Bombay, “where we had
very good friends, who kindly offered to help us and give
us a home”. These good friends were no other than Dr.
Dudley, then President of the Bombay branch of the T.S.,
and his wife, who seem to have felt that enticement of the
useful couple employed at headquarters was compatible with
their pledge of loyalty to the Society. Unfortunately, the
Coulombs did not leave.
‘
i: an: it
During this year, 1882, the negociations were concluded for
the property at Adyar,Madras. On December 17th, the whole
household removed to the new headquarters, and “Crow’s
Nest ”
of Crevice fame was left to the rats until Mr. Hodgson
of the S.P.R. came to pay them a visit.
75
V.
FINALE. I .
As I shall deal exhaustively in my next volume with the
Shrine Room at Adyar and the phenomena that happened
there, and as the next few pages of Mine. C.’s pamphlet are
devoted to these same subjects, I pass for the resent over
these pages to the period after H.P.B. and Co onel Olcott
had left for Europe, on Feb. 20th, 1884, and the Board of
Control thathad been set up in charge of the Adyarhousehold
had decided on the expulsion of the Coulombs and was soon
to serve the couple with notice to quit. .
_
The circumstances may be stated rapidly here without going
into the details.
Dr. Hartmann, the President of the Board, and his colleague,
Mr. St. George Lane-Fox, were newcomers to headquarters;
and it is rather clear that theyexercised the zeal of newcomers
suddenly placed in a position of control. Both considered
that the Society was not run on
“
proper
”
lines; it was too
happy- olucky altogetherfor them, and neither of them under-
stood at this atmosphere was the very food of the Society,
or that the creative genius of H.P.B. and the cementing
genius of Olcott were quite suflicient to carry the Society
past any temporary whirlpools due to lack of business methods,
including even the absence of strict control over the pilfermg
Coulombs.
I jud e that up to the departure of
Lane-Fox and Damodar followed on April 1st. On April24th,
while she was still at Ooty, a letter dated April 1st, Paris,
arrived at Madrass for her from Colonel Olcott, the which
letter was opened by her husband. Olcott said that he had
received reports from Adyar that Mme. C. had been talking
about trap-doors (see App. I. 3, for Olcott’s letter), and
generally slandering H.P.B. and the
Society. He treated the
affair as just one more of Mme. C.’s wel -known outbreaks,
said that she had already tried to unsettle him with “almost
similar” stuff and pretended “
secrets she knew ”, warned her
that he was becoming quite disgusted, gave her a hint that
her room would be more welcome than her company at Adyar
and rebuked her for disgracingher good honourable hurband.
-
By the same‘ post came a letter to Mme. C. from H.P.B.
This ‘went to Ooty. H.P.B. treats the trap-door talk with
ridicule and disgust, but the letter betraysmuch anxiety. Con-
scious of innocence about trap-doors, but aware that Mme. C.
really had a hold over her in the Metrovitch affair, AND
wanting the invaluable Mr. Coulomb to finish building her
a new bedroom—H.P.B. pleads with Mme. C. not to make
-trouble. This letter makes no reference to any threat to pro-
duce letters. Mr. Gribble writes in his Report, p.22: “Al-
though this letter is full of reproaches, there does not appear
to be any reference to a threatened exposure by letters. It
shows that previously to April 10th [sic, Ist], the C.’s must
have made accusations of trickery, and indeed Dr. Hartmann
himself says that, although the C.’s spoke of trickery, they
did not say that they held any letters which would com-
promise Madame Blavatsky. (See leader in “Theosophist”,
Oct. 1884). There would therefore seem to be some reason to
‘believe the statement of Mme. C. that it was not until they
‘had been expelled from the Society that she made the threat
of exposing Madame Blavatsk by publishing the letters. That
Mme. C. had previously made a threat of some kind appears
to be certain, becauseDr. Hartmann pamphlet, p.32, footnote)
says that a letter from Madame Blavatsky to Mr. Lane-Fox,
dated April2nd, contained a
“
blackmailingletter ”
from Mme.
-Coulomb warning Madame Blavatsky to beware of the con-
sequences of a rupture".
merely say that there was every reason for Coulomb to be
—in a terrible funk. He sent for his wife to return home,
and, meanwhile, wrote to Olcott. This is the letter I spoke
of as being published by Mme C. on page 89 of her pamphlet.
Nothingcould worse expose the cunning of the man and the
lack of moral responsibility,even on the lowest level of self-
preservationfrom jud ment, than the ublication of this letter
y the couple themseves. The trans ation is Mme. C.’s.
The Letter.
“Dear Sir, In the absence of my wife, who is at Ootaca—
mund on account of her health, I have received the letter
which you have sent her, and as she has authorised me to
open her correspondence, I have read it. I am so indignant
at the behaviour of the persons who have written to you
such lies that I shall not transmit your letter to my wife, and
I shall await your return in order that you may confront us
with those persons who have written to you such things,
and we shall see if they would dare to affirm before you and
before us what they have written. Since ever we have been
in the Society, we have always been exposed and accused
unjustly, and this never openly, but always by calumnious
letters. I cannot say that I had reason to be satisfied with
the behaviour shown to me; nevertheless, I have borne all,
I have said nothing and I have written nothing to you
about it.
“If the object of these persons who have written to you
such lies is to ut us out of the Society, they need not have
recourse to sucfl vile means. I am very grateful to you for
the kindness you have had to inform us of that which has
been written to you; at least you give us the chance to clear
ourselves, and this we will do at your return, so you will be
able to judge for yourself. Permit me to say that accusations
so badly grounded are not very brother—like on the part of
those who have written them; and I shall be very happy if,
on your return, I have the opportunity of knowing who these
persons are, not only in order to speak my mind, but also to
assign them before a court of law. I beg you to forgive me
if my styleis not correct, but I am so indignant against these
persons that my blood boils.
“I beg you to excuse me for not having replied to your
80
letter from Suez; the reason is that, after having communi-
cated it to Damodar, he told me that he had no funds in
hand to pay the cost of the work, and few days later, all
authority over the men employed on the estate was taken
from me, consequently I now represent nothing but a Zero;
but these Sllgllt unpleasantnesses are nothingto me, who have
been brought u in the severe school of adversity and have
been much tried?
“You ma send a copy of this letter (this one that I am
now writinggto the people who have written against us; in
order to warn them that they will have to substantiate their
calumnies.
“As I belong to the fatalist school——that is, I believe that
nothing can change destiny or the course of events—-—I accept
things as they come; therefore let us drop the subject, and
allow me to congratulate you on the success and fame that
you have obtained in Paris and that I hope may accompany
you to London, and that you will return here triumphant.
thank you once more for your candour, and I believe that on
your return you will find that we are worthy of your esteem.
“Meanwhile, accept, dear sir, the respectful salutations of
your very devoted servant.
A. Coulomb.”
=l= Il= #1
Had not this epistle arrived in Paris too late, Coulomb
could have stopped up the hole in the wall, repapered, and
blamed the damage on to the damp. Then, waving his
,“ honneur ”, he could have defied the Board of Control to prove
that he had ever said a word about trap—doors, given his wife
a furious public scolding for her absurd tongue, the which
rebuke she would have accepted with meekness and a sob in
her handkerchief, and the world would never have heard of
any
“
Coulomb scandal ”. Olcott needed to have the evidence
almost before his eyes before he would believe that Coulomb
was a rogue, and this evidence would not have been forth-
comin .
H.P.B. would have been only too glad to hear that
the w ole thing was just some more of Mme. Coulomb's
_“ flapdoodle”. Dr. Hartmann and Lane-Fox might have left
the Society, but the Society had gone on before they joined
and would have gone on after they resigned.
81
3.
beeButall this was not to be And yet. it easily might have
n!
Olcott despised Mme. Coulomb, but he trusted her husband.
He trusted far less at that time Dr. Hartmann and Lane-Fox,
was not at all at ease as to their intentions. A year later,
they did make a plan, even, a plot, to weaken his authority
as President of the Society and tried to set up a controlling
Council to run the thing on business lines. Instead of a
simple, almost communal, society, the T.S. was approaching
the gilt line that all such societies must resolutel refuse to
cross, or lose their character: the line where simpfy necessary
possessions begin to swell to Vested Interests. There is only
one way out of that. “Sell that thou hast”, give all thou
canst, and return to simplicity. Dr. Hartmann and Lane-Fox,
a very wealthy man, certainly had notions of turning Adyar
into a successful business, and their plans excluded Olcott
as directing genius. From the first, almost, they and he
had felt a mutual hostility, they far more than he; yet, he
was certainly open to conviction, to say the least, about their
secret intentions to displace him, and the cunning Coulomb
seems to have understood the situation and felt that it would
be easy enough to convince him that Hartmann and Lane-
Fox were intriguing to supplant him.
III C t
At this moment, extraordinary paragra hs be an to appear
in the papers, concerning the inside a airs o the Society;
the world was informed that trouble was brewing between
the Founders and the new European members——these, of
course, being Hartmann and Lane-Fox. It was so much
to the interest of the Coulombs to get this news going that
one has small difliculty in accepting Hartmann’s suspicion
that Mme. C. herself inspired the paragraphs and circulated
them through her friends, the padris.
Now, by the same mail as Coulomb sent his letter to
Olcott, there went also to Olcott, from Madras, a mysterious
document. It was sent anonymously. Written on head-
quarters notepaper, it was signed “
Dr. Hartmann”.
82
“
Private. Adyar,April28, I884.
“
My dear Madame Coulomb, I was very glad to rcccivc
ygur kind warning: but I need a new and further explanation
fore I will beleive in Madame Blavatsky’s innocence. From
the first week of my arrieval, I knew she was a tric/(starfor
I had received intimation to that effect, and had been told
so by Mr. Lane-Fox before he went to Ooty (and who added,
moreover, that he had come from England with this urpose,
as [he had received secret instructions from the iondom
Fellows) and even sayd that he felt sure she was a spy.)
“She is worse than you think, and she lied to me about
lots of things, but you may rest assured that she shall not
bambuzle me. I hope to tell you more when I see you, upon
your return from Ootacamund and show you that Col. Olcott
is no better than he should be. Excuse short letter. I am
‘writing in the dark.
“Yours faithfully,Dr. F. Hartmann.”
4* O i
.
in April, to be sent back anonymously by a confederate at
Adyar to Olcott on the 28th.
Hodgson says,
“
This forged Hartmann document and also
the endorsement thereon, are, in my opinion, the handiwork
of Madame Blavatsky”. Well, we shall see.
4.
We next come to another Mahatmic document that Hodgson
quotes on page 279. He says :
“
Madame Blavatsky no doubt
wrote also to Mr. Damodar [on April 1st]. Her letters
would reach Madras about April 24th, and Ootacamund on
April26th, on which date Mr. Damodar produced a Mahatma
M. letter, declaring that it had fallen in his room: it was
addressed to Dr. Hartmann, who has published the following
portions of it :—
‘For some time already the woman has opened communi-
cation-—a regular diplomatic pourpar1ers—-with the enemies
of the cause, certain padris. She opes for more than 2,000
rupees from them if she helps them [,] ruining or at least
injuring the Society by injuring the reputation of the found-
ers. Hence hints as to
“
trap—doors ”
and tricks. Moreover
when needed trap—doors will he found, as they have been
forthcoming for some time. They are sole masters of the
top storey. They alone have full entrance to and control
of the premises. “
Monsieur ”
is clever and
cunning at every
handicraft—good mechanic and carpenter, and goo at walls
likewise. Take note of thi.r——ye Theosophists. They hate
you with all the hatred of failure against success; Society,
Henry, H.P.B., theosophists, and aye——-the very name of
theosophy. The "*"”" are ready to lay out a good sum for
the ruin of the Society they hate. Moreover the I[esuits?]
of India are in direct understanding with those of London
and Paris. Keep all said above in strictest confidence if
you would be strongest. Let her not suspect you know it,
but if you would have my advice—be prudent, yet act
without delay. M.’
"‘
Mr. Damodar was instructed on the outside of the letter
to let Dr. Hartmann have it without delay; and Dr. Hart-
mann was instructed in the document itself to show it to
Mr. Lane-Fox. The writer of the letter was evidentlyunaware
34
that .Mr. Lane-Fox was with Mr. Damodar at Ootacamund,
and that Dr. Hartmann was at Madras. Mr. Damodar,
however, remedied the ignorance of ‘Mahatma M.’, and
showed the letter to Mr. Lane-Fox before forwarding it to
Dr. Hartmann.’’
% i t
Incidentally, this incident probably served in many an
ashram as a test of a chela’s intuition and knowledge of the
rules; but Mr. Hodgson’s cocksure chortles do not concern
us here. What does concern us is—-that this Scotland
Yardish gentleman accuses Madame Blavatsky of forging in
Paris, on April Ist, a letter signed “M.”, the which letter
proves that she was unaware that Dr. Hartmann was at
Madras;
and,
of forging a letter signed “Dr. Hartmann”, the which
letter must have been sent by her from Paris on April Ist
or 2nd, and that proves that the writer was not only aware
that Dr. Hartmann was at Madras, but was aware that Mme.
Coulomb had gone to Ootacamund and was still there on
April28th.
And thus spake the S.P.R.!
4.
Mme. Coulomb returned from Ooty on May 6th; and she
and her spouse put their heads together to patch up the
mess. On May 7th, she wrote a letter to H.P.B. On the
fitle page of the Adyar Report there is an extract from this
etter 1
“I may have said something in my rage, but I swear on
all that is sacred for me that I never said fraud,secret passages,
trap-doors‘, nor that my husband had helped you in any way.
If my mouth has uttered these words, I pray the Almighty to
shower on my head the worst malediction: in Nature."
The S.P.R. Report does not quote this. The members of
the Society for Psychical Research were not allowed to hear
of it. Neither did they hear of the following letter sent
by the same mail. The translation is taken from the Adyar-
Report, p.129.
35
Mr. Coulomb to Madame Blavatsky.
“
Dear Madame, My wife has just returned and has brought
me thisshort para aph which concerns you. [The newspaper
insinuated a possigle split in the T.S.]; and I, out of friend-
ship, send it on to you. She tells me that it is the general
rumour that if Mr. Lane-Fox should take. your place, your
Society, which has cost you so much to build up, will suffer.
‘Our dear Colonel and our dear Madame ’
say the majority,
‘
can never be replaced by others’.
“I beg you not to give credence to anything bad they
may report to you about us before you hear us, and we
have the chance to explain the truth. Those who are
attackingus are only using it as a pretext for a covert attack
on you. And all they are doing is simply to make themselves
master: of the situation and overthrow you.
“I have already written ou not to permit the meeting of
Iune 18th to take place [This was a convention of re resent-
atives of the Society's Branches, ordered to meet on e date
specified, for the pur ose of legally ratifying a Deed of the
Adyar property.], an it was in our own interest. Do not
believe anything you hear; we ave done nothing wrong;
disabuse your mind of such a thought. Do not rush into
anyone’s open arms before knowing what sort of characters
they are; and I implore you not to take away from me the
care of your rooms—wh1ch is just what they are trying to
effect; and I warn you that it is only that they may have a
free field during your absence to accomplish all their intrigues.
May, 1884. Your devoted friend, A. COULOMB.”
1 i 10
Our devoted friend makes it manifest as the sun on a
bright day that Madame Blavatsky knew nothing of his hole
and trapdoor exploits in her room. And the S.P.R. Report
totally ignores this letter!
‘V II I
86
When Madame Blavatskyleft for Europe, she told Damodar,
Hartmann and the rest that they mi ht use her rooms.
(Mme. C. P. 76.) On March 6th, less ian two weeks after
her departure, Coulomb refused to allow Damodar u stairs
in the room where the hole was subsequently found (a davit
P. 106.). A week later, Mme. C. sna ped out at Damodar
that Madame Blavatsky had ordered fier husband to make
trap-doors; and then denied having said it. And now, we
find Madame Blavatsky’s devoted friend imploring her not
to give over to the Board of Control the keys of her rooms—-
these rooms, where the holes were! where she is sup sed to
know that the holes were !—swearing that he and is wife
have done nothin wrong and pleading with her to wait
and give them a c ance to explain the truth.
»
Say~—chance to mend the hole and return to normal. But
Mahatma M. had taken command. Dr. Hartmann had
already received M.’s advice to “
act without delay ”
and had
taken it. If H.P.B. had received Coulomb’s “
devoted friend”
letter and his wife’s “
ray the Almighty” letter and the
newspaper paragraph before the Board had begun to “act”,
she, who had received no orders at all, or even advice, would
certainly have held up the whole business, refused to let the
Coulombs be expelled by the “
intriguers ”, and Olcott would
have concurred. Instead of cabling, as soon she did, to Hart-
mann to take her keys from the Coulombs, she would have
cabled him diplomatically to leave things alone until her
return, etc., etc. But, by the time she got the letters, the
whole cat was out of the bag.
It is now clear that Madame Blavatsky knew nothing of
her “
devoted friend’s” holes and trap-doors in her rooms,
the keys of which he was so desperately anxious she should
not give over to the Board of Control. It is clear that Madame
Blavatsky knew nothing of Madame Coulomb’s movements,
and therefore could not have wri-tten the forged “
Hartmann
document”, that talks of Mme. C. at Ootacamund. And I
think it is now clear enough who did write it, namely,
Coulomb. In that document, Mme. C. is represented as
having tried to convince Hartmann of Madame Blavatsky’s
innocence; and this is in the tone of Coulomb’s letter where
he represents himself and spouse as defending H.P.B. and
Olcott against the plotters, Hartmann and Lane-Fox. The
87
Board had already shown the Coulombs that they would get
short shrift, and nothing would have served the couple better
than. to aggravate the none too cordial relations already
existing.
1 it *
5.
Lane—Fox and Damodar returned from Ootacamund, and
Lane—Fox produced for Dr. Hartmann’s gaze a bundle of
aflidavits that he had collected there from several European
members of the Society. These testified to Mme. C.’s malice
against Madame Blavatsky,secret slanderings and attempts to
get money from the members. Dr. Hartmann then “acted”
on Mahatma M.’s advice, and requested the Coulombs to
leave the house. But the Coulombs wished to stay! They
calculated that Olcott and Madame Blavatsky would take
their letters at face value, and they declared that they would
not leave until they got replies from Paris. Then, the Board
formally summoned Mme. C. and expelled her, at the same
time requesting the husband, against whom there was no
evidence yet, to accompany her out of the house. Coulomb
then played his last card. Mme. Coulomb writes (P. 109):
“
At the break of day, my husband, being still desirous to
save Madame, called Damodar aside, and told him what he
has stated in his aflidavit”.
it it #
D:1modar’s aflidavit: “This morning Mr. Coulomb called
me aside, and said he wanted to talk to me privatel ,
as he
had to communicate a great secret. He asked me w ether I
was a friend of Madame Blavatsky, and whether I would
promise secrecy in
regard -to what he was going to tell me.
He then said that ere was a secret passage behind the
“shrine” and that he would therefore not give up the keys
of Madame Blavatsky’s rooms.”
“May 16th, 1384. Damodar K. Mavalankar.”
II! 11? #
88
Clearly,Coulomb expected that Damodar would take fright
on account of H.P.B. and would use his influence to keep the
Coulombs at Adyar and the matter a secret from the Board
of Control. But, far from taking fright, Damodar immedi-
ately filed his aflidavit.
Things moved rapidly. Subba Row, acting as the Society’s
lawyer, had, the day before, demanded of Mme. Coulomb a
retraction of her malicious
gossip to members, and threatened
proceedings. She received this ate on the day, the 16th, that
Damodar made his aflidavit. Still, she clung to her notion
that the Society would not dare to prosecute her or even
to turn her out. She replied, after a night’s reflection, and
doubtless, consultation with her padri friends:
“
Sir, I received yesterday, at half—past four p.m., a registered
letter bearing your signature. I must say that I feel sorry
to be called upon to defend myself against some accusations
stated in the letter; I would rather have been spared this
disagreeable task, as the name of the Society is at stake, and
would feel really happy if this delicate matter was left alone.
But if the law calls me to state the truth I shall be obliged
to do so. In this case, I beg you to assign me before any
Court you like. I am, etc., E. Coulomb.”
As a matter of fact, the Board of Control had not felt
that it possessed the authority to expel the couple by force.
Further letters had been dispatched to Paris, but there was
not yet time for reply. However, on receipt of Damodar’s
afiidavit, Hartmann cabled, and received on the 18th, cabled
authority from Olcott and H.P.B. to expel the Coulombs.
The next day, H.P.B. cabled to the Coulombs, “Sorry you
go. Prosper.” H.P.B. remained in two minds until the
news arrived from Hartmann that a hole had actually been
found in the wall in her room.
=l= it I!
Still, there had been no mention of any letters. Mme.
Coulom"b demanded 3,000 rupees from the Board as the price
of her silence, but no—one cared whether she talked or_not.
The Hole and Trap—doors had been thoroughly examined,
and the verdict was that no phenomena could possibly have
been carried out by their means. Hartmann relates in his
book (P. 47.) that, a few days after the hole was examined,
89
Coulomb and wife, who were still in their bungalow in the
compound, asked for an interview, when the man informed
him that ten thousand rupees were put at his disposal if
the Socie were ruined. “
His wife during that conversation
was stan ing near the door listening and called out to her
husband: ‘
Ne vous vous compromettez pasl’ (Do not com-
mit yourself!); but alas! the 10,000 ru es seem to have the
same fate as the 2,000 rupees from arisin hji, to appear
for a moment on the horizon of Madame Cou omb, to vanish
again before they are touched. Sad disappointment!”
Even at this interview, no letters were mentioned, and, as
Hartmann remarks, “It is reasonable to suppose that, if they
had already existed, my friend Mr. Coulomb would have in-
formed me about it.”
Natural] ,
for these letters would have been a trump card
in the blackmailscheme. But then, they would have to have
been produced on the spot, and they were not ready. It was
onl on Au t 9th, nearly three months later, that the lady
too her pac et to the Rev. Patterson, editor of the “
Christian
College Magazine”.
6.
In Se tember, the first batch of these screeds from Bedlam
was pu lished by the Rev. Patterson, and followed b a
second lot in October. H.P.B. returned to India in Decem r,
bent on a libel suit; but Olcott had already been advised by
a round dozen Indian judges and lawyers not to take the
case to the Madras Court, for there was not the least ho
of a just verdict. And then, there was this, that HP. .
certainly did not know for many months afterwards (compare
P. 100,
“
H.P.B. to Sinnett ”, with P. 122),namely,that Subba
Row and all the other clxelas were determined to resist any
action thatwould drag the names of their Masters into a Court.
It may be guessed without much doubt that they would all
have vanished or gone to prison for contempt sooner than give
evidence. When Hodgson appeared with his Scotland Yard
note—book, the clielas led him a dance. They allowed him to
believe what be pleased and they denied the facts when these
threatened the sacredness of their vows; they acted as soldiers
would to protect their re 'ment, and, if necessa ,
in their
judgment, they would dou tless have lied to their ast breath.
9°
That their judgment was faulty and that the should have
seen that mere refusal to answer was the ri t action and
would have sufliced, may be gatheredfrom the etter Mahatma
K.H. caused to appear on June 7th, 1886, on the back of a
letter from T. Tatya to Olcott (“Letters from the Masters.”
Vol. 2, p. 7.), referring to the “
questionable thin s
”
in which
Damodar had “over-zealously taken part”. I ave heard a
Tluosophist say that this letter practically admits that there
had been fraud! If that man, or anyone else, can brin me
any data to prove that Damodar had ever committe the
faintest shadow of fraud, I shall have to confess that my
study of the records has been in vain. No. But it was
sufficiently serious for a clzcla aiming at personal admission
to the highest aslzram to have blundered so badly as to give
a Hodgson the chance of calling him a liar.
1: it ill
When the missionaries found that H.P.B. would not be
allowed to challenge them, they challenged. Mme. Coulomb
instituted a suit against General Morgan, who had publicly
called her a forger. This suit would have dragged H.P.B.
into Court. She was still only too willingfor this, and worked
herself into such a state of fury at Olcott and the Committee
of Defence that the doctors said that if she did not leave the
country and get some peace, she would drop dead or go out
of her mind. So, maybe with a shove from Tibet, she was
induced to consent to leave; she was carried on board a
steamer, arrived safely in Europe and—wrote the Secret
Doctrine. Who could attempt a portrait of such a marvellous
creature! H.P.B. out of reach as a witness, the suit was
dropped.
7.
The end of the Coulombs is obscure. The missionarifiss
having no further use for the couple, got. up a subscription
to pay -their fares out of India because, said the Rev. Patter-
son in the Madras Mail, of May 6th, 1885, “
they_arcp€I_1I111€S§,
and it is impossible for them to earn a livelihood in this
country”. Even the Christians would not employ them.
Whether the couple resisted this attempt to get rid of them,
realising well that, once they left, there was nothing but
91
starvation ahead, whereas, by hanging about, they might
extract a few rupees now and again—or what happened,
remains a secret with the missionaries. Mme. Coulomb did
not leave, for, in 1886, T. Tatya reported to Olcott that she
was living in beggary in Bombay.
I have been told that the couple separated, Coulomb going
to Egypt, where he had relations, and Mme. disappearing
from view altogether until she turned up arm in arm with
the Rev. Patterson at the time of his 1889 renewed attack on
Madame Blavatsky; an attack that Mrs. Besant speedily turned
into a rout by a counter—attack in the “
Methodist Times ”
of
Nov. 28th. If not exactly arm in arm, Mme. C. was some-
where about, for one of the padris mentions her as assisting
Patterson. A credible assumption would be that she had
suffered the last indignity and been sequestered in some
evangelical “home” for social outcasts.
# # #
“I may have said something in my rage, but I swear on
all thatis sacred for me -thatI never said, fraud, secret passages,
traps, nor that my husband had helped you in any way. If
my mouth has uttered these words, I pray the Almighty to
shower on my head the worst malediction: in Nature."
# # it
One wonders whether, after all, it were not a case for the
alienist?
In the “Theosophist”, Oct. 1925, Dr. I. H. Cousins re-
ported a conversation he had with Sir William Barrett, F.R.S.
Professor Barrett said that he “hoped that the Report, that
was a blot on the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical
Research, would some day be withdrawn”.
It is high time to withdraw!
End of Vol. 2.
92
APPENDIX I.
I.
From page 105, Coulomb pamphlet: “
Report of the Pro-
ceedings of the General Council of the Theosophical Society
(May 14th, 1884).”
The following is a summary of the charges brought against
Madame Coulomb.
I. Four affidavits, that Mme. Coulomb repeatedly said to
members, as well as outsiders, that the T.S. had for its object
the overthrow of the British rule in India.
II. Nine aflidavits . . .
that she said that the objects of the
Society were inimical to what she believed to be true religion.
III. Ten afl-idavits . . .
that she said that the “occult
phenomena” . . . were frauds, while on other occasions she
said that they were the work of the devil.
IV. Four affidavits went to show that Mme. C. was guilty
of attempting to extort money from members.
V. Three aflddavits proved that she had wasted the funds
of the Society.
VI. All the afl'idavits proved her guilty of lying and
backbiting
VII. One affidavit proved that she had grossly slandered
H.P.B.
VIII. Two aflidavits showed that she had dissuaded people
from joining the Society.
IX. All affidavits agreed that her presence at headquarters
was causing an immense waste of time, energy and money.
.
X. Letters proved that a blackmailingletter was sent by
Mme. C. to H.P.B.
2.
From Dr. Hartmann’s pamphlet, p. 33. “Afhdavits sent
in . . . went to show that the Coulombs were guilty of gross
misconduct . . .
We therefore concluded to impeach them in
a formal manner, and were engaged in drawing up the charges
in my room when the astral body of a Chela appeared and
handed the following letter to Damodar.
93
‘
So long as one has not developed a perfect sense of justice, he should
prefer to err rather on the side of mercy than commit the slightest
act of injustice. Madame Coulomb is a medium, and as such irre-
sponsible for many things she may say and do. One must know how
to act towards her to make her a very good friend. She has her
own weaknesses, but their bad effects can be minimised by exercising
on her mind a moral influence by a friendly and kindly feeling. Her
mediumistic nature is a help in this direction, if proper advantage
is taken of the same.
It is my wish, therefore, that she shall continue in charge of the
household business, the board of control of course exercising a proper
supervisory control and seeing in consultation with her that no unneces-
sary expenditure is incurred. A good deal of reform is necessary, and
can be made rather with the help than the antagonism of Madame
Coulomb. K.H.’
“
This was rather like throwing cold water on the fire we
had kindled to purify the Society . . .
I rather reluctantly
obeyed, and an armistice was concluded with the Coulombs
by treating them with greater consideration . . .
I even went
so far as to offer them inducements to go to America, a plan
with which they pretended to be delighted.”
3.
A copy of the above letter was sent to Paris to H.P.B. and
Olcott. The advice of the Mahatma, amounting to a com-
mand, was, of course, followed also by Olcott and H.P.B.,
as the letters below indicate. Nevertheless, there had been
stormy scenes between Olcott and H.P.B. They seem to
have given each other wounds that healed, indeed, but left
permanent scars. Quite evidently, Olcott was not sure that
there had been no collusion at all between H.P.B. and Madame
Coulomb and had demanded of H.P.B. to get a satisfactory
retraction from Mme. C. His letter to Mme. C. is cool
enough, but H.P.B.’s shows to what a state of bewildered
misery she had been reduced between the necessity of obeying
the Mahatma, on the one hand, and, on the other, her feelings
wounded by Olcott, her indignation at Mme. C.’s conduct
and the struggle again here between a natural desire to get
rid of her, a certain fear, ready to turn to challenge, of her
gossip about the Cairo business, and a decided inclination
to overlook anything possible for the sake of the domestic
value of the housekeeper and of the handyman who was even
then in the middle of buildingher a new room. This inclin-
94
ation cannot be set down to selfishness, for H.P.B. had only
one idea in life—-—to get on with her work for the Society.‘
Olcott’s letter to Mme. Coulomb.
-
_
Paris, 2.4.84.
Dear Madame Coulomb, We are all settled here in our
temporary headquarters, and busy from morning to night.
The Paris papers are full of us and the Society, our usual
notoriety following us like our very shadows. On Saturday,
Mohini and I 0 over to London and Madame B. is to become
the guest of e Count and Countess A.——new members of
the Society. '
I have unpleasant news today from Adyar, about which
I must speak to you plainly-—as plainly as I ought in the
ca acity of your friend, which I suppose you have always
ta en me to be. My information is that you are talking
about your having lent H.P.B. money in Egypt, which has
not been refunded; that Mr. Coulomb has made trap—doors
and other apparatus for trick manifestations by her; that you
have serious secrets about her that you might reveal; and that
you also express your hospitality to the T.S. Now, all this
is nearly the same as you have told me personally, you will
remember, and I must say that I have been saddened by
the discovery that you have been circulating these stories to
anyone besides myself, whose mind cannot be unsettled by
any trivial things like these. I have never explained to you
as clearly as I might that the Theosophical movement does
not rest at all for its permanency upon phenomena, and that
even if you could prove that every supposed phenomenon
ever witnessed by me or anyone else were false, it would not
alter my opinion one iota as to the benefit to be
derived by the world from our Society’s work. Nor would
the Society be destroyed or even seriously checked. But
neither you nor anyone can do this, for many of us have
seen phenomena when Madame B. was far away from us,
and these very letters received by S. Rao and others, and
other phenomena taking place just as they did before H.P.B.
left. So what is the good of telling such stories? And as
to the money in Egypt, why keep that matter alive? If
H.P.B. borrowed from you then, she has certainly shown
herself your friend by sharing her home with you since you
95
G
joined us at Bombay. I shall not pretend to excuse her for
any unkindness or injustice she may have shown you since
then, for her nature is such as everyone knows it to be, and
it would be foolish to ‘u'y to cover it up with the varnish of
compliment. I have always felt that in case you were a
loyal member of the T.S., and were willing to work with
us for the romotion of its interests, you were as much.
entitled to s elter, food, etc., as any other of us, and that
no obligation was imposed upon ou by accepting them from
us. But I must tell you candidly,that I do not think it
right or fair that you should continue to be a member of a
Society which you thought flourishing by the aid of trickery.
and false representation. If I thou ht my Society that, I
would leave it and wash my han s of it forever. And,
if you do believe it so, and stay a member, why, you see
that at once you as much as confess that you and your
good honourable husband are knowingly arties to these
disgraceful acts, and as
guilty as H.P.B. erself. If you
ever said that Mons. Coulom helped make ap aratus for
trickery, that is just the same as to say that he, y keeping
his mouth closed about it and allowin the fraud to go on,
is doubly dishonourable. I cannot ink that you would
say such a falsehood, and I will not believe it until you
yourself confess it. And finally, my dear Mme. C., what
nonsense it is to give out, or let it be inferred, that you have
any power to harm the T.S., or anyone at headquarters, by
Black Magic, when I tell you that no one on earth, or any
combinationof men, can harm the Society, which rests upon
the everlasting rock of truth, and is doin good every day
to mankind. I do hope, too, as your wel-wishcr, that you
will never seriously think that this harm could be wrought
by combining yourself with Mr. Bowen, or the Bishop, or
the Madras padris, or any of their societies. Such a plot
would never succeed in doing more than to make a temporary
annoyance, like the stupid scandals of the past at Bombay
and elsewhere. VVhile I live and work and can fight for
the cause, it will be impossible to overthrow it.
So now that I have said my say in my usual plain but
honest way, let us be friends and allies, as we have hitherto
been, and with sincere regards to Mons. Coulomb,
I am, faithfullyyours, H. S. Olcott.
96
4.
Letter from Madame Blavatsky to Mme. Coulomb. (Mme,
C.’s translation, corrected where incompetent.)
Paris, 1st April, 1884. [Should be 2nd.]
My dear Monsieur and Madame Coulomb,
I address -this letter to ou both, because I think it w¢11
that you should lay your heads together and think seriously
about it. I have not been able to write to you before—I'
have been too ill for that. I will first transcribe certain
passages from several letters that I have just received from
Adyar. '_I'hese extracts will be lengthy. I will not dwell
on what is there said respecting Madame Coulomb and Mr.
Brown, “who (Mme. C.), in his case, as she did in that of
, t_rie: her best to undermine the power of the Society
by talking to hzr_n as she does against it." All that may or
rnay_not be serious. Neither is what Mr. Lane-Fox says
in his letter, but see what is added: “She opposes every-
thing that is intended for the benefit of the Society. But
these are perhaps trifling things which might be countu-.
acted. More serious is the fact that she says she lent you
rnoney in Egypt”. (That I have never hidden, I have told
it to everybody; and at the time of the Wimbridge—Bates
tragedy, I announced publicly that I was under obligation to
you, since, when noone would aid me—I, a stranger in
Cairo-—_you alone and M. Coulomb helped me, gave me
hospitality, loans of money, etc; I have always said more
even than you really did. Well, I continue to
copy)-—“She
says the money was never repaid; that M. Coulom ha: been
constructing secret trap-door: for the production of occult
phenomena; that she could tell-—-the Lord knows what—if
she wanted to; and
lastly her foolish assertion that the
irheosophical Society was ounded to overthrow British rule
in India ._ . .
Madame Coulomb, ever since I knew her,
expressed it to be her highest wish to get sufficient money
to go to some other place, and for this object, she begged
2_,ooo Rupees from Hurrisingjee. She has told me man
times that if she had only 2,000 Rupees, she would go like
a shot. Mr. Lane-Fox has offered to give her the 2,000
Rupees, or provide for her in any way she wishes; but now,
97
she suddenly changes her attitude and insists on staying,
saying that she has a paper from Colonel Olcott, in which
he offers her a home for life in Adyar, and that she has
positive orders from you (orders! l?) not only to remain
ere during your absence, but also to help herself from the
funds of the Society, whenever she should want any money
to buy dresses, etc.”
Is it then because I really did say and have repeated to
you, before Olcott, that, as Theosophists and friends, you
had a ri ht to clothes and necessaries out of the Socie! 3'
money, t at you are saying to them that M. Coulomb as
constructed secret trap—doors, etc.!! Oh, Madame Coulomb!
what have I done to you that you should try to ruin me in
this way? Is it because for four years we lived together
in poverty while I left everything in your hands, telling
you all the time, “Take what money you need,” that you
seek to ruin me for life in the minds of those who, after
turning their backs on me will turn them on you above all
so that you will gain nothing, but lose friends who would
otherwise have aided you. How can I believe that Madame
Coulomb will so dishonour her husband and herself! They
who write to me and the Colonel say: “her object in doing
so looks as though she _wanted to get money from Mr.
Lane-Fox and remain here and ”——but I am unwilling to
write out the rest. I am keeping the letters, and if we
ever meet again, you shall see them. They add: “Further-
more, we have suflicient evidence through herself, that she
is made use of by black magicians, not only to interfere with
the welfare of the Society, but especially to exert a poisonous
and detrimental influence on Damodar. As to her being
an enemy of the Society, she does not even attempt to
deny it”. Further on it is said that M. Coulomb says the
’
same things as his wife. I do not believe it. You are too
proud and honest a man to do anything of the sort. You
are ready to kill a man when in a rage. You would never
go and denounce him. You would not accuse him in secret
to his friends; and if Madame Coulomb, who would not
hurt a fly, who has so much love for animals even—has
done so, it must be because she is ill, does not know what
she says, does not think of the terrible mischief she is doing
to those who have never injured her, and of the harm she
98
does to herself and everyone! Why ever does she hate me?
What have I done to her? I know I am quick-tempered,
violent, that, unintentionally, I have perhaps offended her
more than once. But what real harm have I ever done to
her? Since our arrival at Adyar, I have truly and sincerely
liked her, and since we left, have often thought of what
I should buy her at Paris, things she needs, and of how I
could get her two or three thousand rupees, so that she
could pass the summers at Ootacamund or elsewhere and
keep a boarding-house, do something for herself and you.
I was never ungrateful, my dear M. Coulomb, never treacher-
ous. And you, Madame Coulomb, do not tell me that you
have never said all the above, as in the case of Hurrisingjee,
for see what that poor boy, Damodar, says, who writes me
a despairing letter. I copy again:
‘I am between the horns of a dilemma . . .
Master tells
me that Madame Coulomb must be treated with consider-
ation and respect, and on the other hand she tells me, and
has been saying to everyone, that you are a fraud performing
phenomena by means of secret spring IIap—doors probably
constructed by Monsieur Coulomb. This she did not assert
to me, but only insinuated,” etc. And further on
‘
. . .
I
entirely agree with the facts introduced in ’s letter to
you. Madame C. has been, according to her confession,
exercising an influence prejudicial to the interests of the
Socie .’
Weill, what reply have you to all that? What result are
ou aiming at, Madame Coulomb, by allowing people to
lieve that you can do what you are incapable of doing,
that is, of employing black magic against the Society that
rotects you and works for you even if you do work for it
and God knows that we all owe you many obligations
for all you have done for us since we came to Ad ar). I
declare certainly that you have worked for us and that on
have a right to our gratitude, to clothing and food, to ive
at the Society’s expense so far as its funds allow. I repeat
this. But what ever purpose can
(you have in vilifying me
secretly to those who love me an believe in me? What
vengeance are you after, what have I done to you, I ask once
more? Your doings will never ruin the Society, only myself,
at most, in the estimation of my friends. The public has
99
always regarded me as a fraud and an importer. One result
you will attain, that people will say you also are a "fraud";
and worse, that you have done it for gain, this that cannot
be charged against me, for I give all I earn to the Society,
I half—kill myself for it. They will say that M. Coulomb
and yourself have assisted me, not out of friendship (for
your accusations and denunciations rove that, for some
motive unknown to me, you hate me, but in the hope of
blackmailing,as is said in one of the letters to Olcott. But
that is horrible! You must really be ill; you must be so to
act so foolishly! But understand that you cannot injure
anyone at this time of day. It is too late. That similar
henomena, and even more marvellous (letters from Mahatma
oothoomi and our Master) have happened when I was
thousands of miles away. That Mr. Hume at Simla, Col.
Strange in Kashmir, Sinnett in London, Queensbury in New
York, and Gilbert in Australia, have received the same day
and hour a circular letter in the writing of the Mahatma
when all were alone in their rooms. Where then were the
trap-doors constructed by M. Coulomb? Exhibit one only,
and that would reflect on you the first, and on poor me.
People who see the Mahatma before them in Australia and
London as at Adyar, who receive letters in his handwriting
in reply to their letters written only two hours before, will
not believe you, could not believe you; and remember that
if I were exposed 20,000 times, detected and convicted of im-
posture, all that could do no harm to the cause, to the truth.
If, h accusing myself ublicly, roclaiming myself a fraud
in al the papers, I coud thus db any good to the Society
and increase the veneration for the ‘Brothers, Mahatrnas’,
_I should not hesitate a moment—would go to the stake for
this cause that you hate so much.
And who was the fraud when (I a thousand miles away)
Hurrisngjee had an answer to his letter that he had put in
the shrine, and Srinavas Rao, also, as they write to us from
Ad ar? Did you write in the Mahatma’s hand, did you
mahe us of a trapdoor? All the evil comes [Tout le mal
pro:/icnt de ce que nous n'az/cz jamai: 1/oulu croire. Mme.
C. translates: “All the evil proved will be that you have
never believed”
etc.] from this, that you would never believe
there were real Mahatmas behind the curtain. That you
100
disbelieve in real phenomena, and so you see trick: in it all.
Well, ii In grdce dc Dieu! [Mme. C. translates this: “Ah
well! (I commit myself) to the ace of God”. But with
H.P.B., it would mean no more Elan “Lord help us! Well,
go on!] Accuse me, denounce me, ruin H. P. Blavalsky,
who has never hated or been treacherous to you, who half
ruined the Society at the beginning in Bombay, to support
and protect you against everyone—even the Colonel; and
that when she could do so with no danger to herself. [er
tela lor:qu’ellc pout/aft le faire ran: aucun danger pour elle;
Mme. C. translates this: “and that when she was [not] able
to do it without danger to herself.” But ”
aucun
"
forbids
such a rendering. I think that Madame Blavatsky was
indulging in a little bit of bravado, saying to Mme. C.,
the resent approuver, that, even then, in Bombay, she did
not ear betra al of the only secret Mme. C. had, namely,
the Metrovitc secret. But H.P.B. had feared this very
much; and it is certain that Mme. C. only a month or two
after her arrival, during a quarrel, had boasted to Miss
Bates and Wimbridge, that she had a hold over Madame
Blavatsky. S.P.R. Report, p.3r5.]
'
Do our will, good friend. But you, who talk so much
of God’and Christ, remember that if there is a God, he will
not reward you for doing ill to those who have never done
ill to you. Say what you please, but a living person is
worth more than a dog or a beast in the economy of Nature.
Mr. Lane—Fox and the Board of Trustees seem to have made
changes in the house, sent away the coolies and the dogs,
too? And I’d swear that Mme. Coulomb attributes all that
to me! Well, you would be wrong. The Board arranged
all that the last day at Bombay, when, having received
[clairvo antly; a fine instance of H.P.B.’s powersl] news
of the eath of my uncle, I took no part; did not even know
what was done. Colonel, Dr. Hartmann and Mr. Lane-Fox
arranged and settled everything. It is only today that I
have asked Colonel to explain what took place. I even
asked that Mr. Coulomb might be nominated a Trustee,
somuch I had need of him to build me a new room. The
Colonel replied neither yes not no. And today again, he
has made a scene over all the money I spent through M.
Coulomb for my rooms, etc. Do you know What he said
IOI
about the letters from which I have made extracts? “If
Madame Coulomb, who has undeniably helped you with
some phenomena, for she told this to me herself, were to
proclaim it on the top of the roof, it would change nothing
in my knowledgeand that of Dr. Hartmann, Brown, Sinnett,
Hume and so many others in the appreciation of Theosophy
and the veneration for the Brothers. You alone would suffer.
For even if you were to tell me that the Mahatma: do not
exist and that you have tricked in every phenomenon pro-
duced by you, I would answer that YOU LIE, for we know
the Mahatma;-, and know that you could not—no more than
flyon the moon—have produced certain of the best of your
p enomena ”. There. Conclude from this what the truth
is and what he thinks.
If I have not done more for you than I have, I had not
the means. Wrapped up as I am entirely in the cause, I
think of nobody. If I ‘perish, let me perish, but let the
cause flourish. If you com romise me in the eyes of Mr.
Lane-Fox, I-Iartmann and e rest, very well, I will not
return to Adyar, I shall stay here or in London, where I
will prove by phenomena more marvellous than ever that
they are real and that our Mahatmas exist, for there is one
here in Paris and he will go to London also. And after
I have proved i't——where will be the trap—doorr then? What
will the be doing? Why do you make the Colonel hate
you an go against you, as you have set against yourself
everyone at Adyar? Wh not quietly remain friendly and
wait for better times, helping us to ut the Society on a
firm basis, with large funds from w ich all Theosophists
who need protection could be helped? Why not accept the
2,000 rupees offered by Mr. Lane-Fox and pass the hot
months at Ooty and the cold ones with us as in the past?
It seems that Damodar has no money left in the cash—box.
He asks us for money, us! And we spend, spend, and soon
shall have nothing more, for no money has yet come in,
and you, you want to lose, alienate from the cause the only
man who can assist it, the only one who is rich. Instead
of becoming friendlywith him, you set him horribly against
you. Ah, my good friend, how unfortunate and stu id,
all this! Come, I bear you no grudge. I am so use to
fear and to suffer that nothing surprises me. But what
I02
does surprise me is to see an intelligent woman like you
'
doing mischief for mischief’s sake, and riskingto be swallowed
up in the pit you yourself have dug, you first! Enough!
Believe both of- you that I speak as a friend. I like M.
Coulomb very much and until he tells me himself that I
have been mistaken in him, that he has allowed you to talk
of trap-door: without contradicting you, I will never believe
that he has said such things. He is incapable of it. Undo,
now, the evil you have done uncon:eiou:ly—I feel sure,
carried away by your nerves, your disease and sufferings,
and the rage—caused by this Board of Trustees, that annoys
me more than it does you. But if on choose to go on
slandering me with not the least profit to yourself—do it;
and may your Christ and God repay ou.
After which, I sign, with a heartaclle that you can never
understand—still your Eriend,
H. P. Blavatsky.
APPENDIX II.
I.
‘
With reference to Vol. I, p. 48, line 26.
A correspondent points out that “
seen
”
should read
“heard”.. This might have been a very serious mistake.
Fortunately, if the jemadar had only heard, this equally gives
a bod to what is only shadowed in Damodar’s diary, namely,
that t e latter was to proceed to Lhasa under high protection.
I have certainly read somewhere that the jemadar witnessed
the meeting between Damodar and the caravan. Perhaps some
student can supply the reference? In 1886, Mahatma K.H.
wrote that Damodar had arrived, and the following testimony
appeared in the “Theosophist”, September, 1889:
NEWS OF DAMODAR.
The following letter has been forwarded to the Theosophist
for publication. It is the reply of the Sriman Swamy, the
Secretary of the Cow Memorial Fund (a movement for the
protection of cattle and the improvement of agriculture, that
promises to become national), to the enquiries of a friend of
Damodar who had heard that the Swarny had latel visited
Tibet, and was anxious to know whether he had card or
ro3
seen anythingof our absent brother. Since then, I have had
two conversations with the Swamy, in the course of which
he corroborated what he had said in his letter, and left on
my mind the impression of being an able and sincere man,
imbued with patriotic sentiments and perfectly loyal to the
Empress and her Government; anxious only that the true state
of affairs should be understood, and willing to trust to the
justice and generosity of the English people to institute
remedies for the evils that he believes to exist.
Richard Harte, Acting-Editor of the T/xeosopltist.
Madras, August 7th, 1889.
To Dear Sir and Brother,
In reply to your enquiries I may say that I certify on my
word as a Sanyasi that I have twice visited Tibet since the
year 1879; that I have personally become ac uainted with
several Mahatmas, among them were the two nown to the
outside world as Mahatma “
M." and Mahatma “K. H.”;
that I spent some time in their company; that they told me
that -they and other Mahatmas were interested in the work
of the Theosophical Society; that Mahatma “M.” told me
he had been the (occult) guardian of Madame Blavatsky from
her infancy.
And I further certify that in March, 1887, I saw Mr.
Damodar K. Mavalankar at L’hassa, in a convalescent state.
He told me in the presence of Mahatma “K. H.” that he
had been at the point of death in the previous year.
(Signed) Sriman
Swamy,
Hon Sec. Cow Memorial Fund, Al ahabad.
2.
Another correspondent points out that there is no record
of exactly how far H.P.B. passed the frontier in 1854. (See
Vol. I, p. 52.) There is not, so far, so the point cannot be
discussed at present. But, whatever dangers H.P.B. may have
encountered on this journey would scarcely equal those she
must have surmounted in going to Tibet, in 1867, via the
Karakorum Pass: ten days over boulders in an atmosphere
frequently poisonous, and with not a human habitationon the
way. The sight of the trail over and beyond this Pass,
104
strewn with skeletons of animals which had died under the
strain, horrified, in 1884, Sir Francis Younghusband, who was,
I believe, the first European to venture off the track in these
regions. The “Canadian Theosophist” of Iune, 1927, gave
the following:
“Major Cross, who, with his wife, Dr. Cross, and their
daughter, have been visiting Toronto, gave a long, graphic
and intensely interesting account of his travels in north—Wesnern
Tibet, during which he traced the progress of a white woman
in 1867, through the most difficult country to a lamasery far
north,throughthe recollectionsof various old people who were
’
pressed by the personality of this unusual visitor. He
identified her with Madame Blavatsky, and the date was
settled by those he talked with as having been ten years after
the Mutin . Major Cross said he was not a Theosophist, but
could not elp beinginterested in Madame Blavatsky’sjourney,
as it had been related to him. He is manager or factor of
tea and other estates of the Dalai Lama of Tibet, to which
he is returning.”
105
