{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__hart___psychic_instruction.pdf","mytitle":"Psychic Instruction","mylang":"de"}
PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS
BY
WILLIAM E. HART
.PUBLISHING
HOUSE.
The Christopher Publishing House
Boston, U. S. A.
Copyright, 1937
by the christopher publishing house
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Dedication
to her who first suggested that i pursue
the psychic quest,
my mother
this book is affectionately dedicated
INTRODUCTION TO GENERAL COURSE
The following Foreword and Chapters of Instruction
represent more than forty years experience in conducting
unfoldment classes and services throughout the United
States.
Not until recently was it thought practicable to write
a course of instruction which could with any degree of
success be used by many sitters not in contact with the
instructor. But after the success of the instructions by
personal correspondence, it was deemed feasible to write
such a course and to offer it at a price which the many
could afford. The personal instruction was of necessity
expensive; the general instruction can be offered at a
greatly reduced price. In this way, the many who could
not afford the more expensive course can now get the
same instructions by a less expensive method. Every
thing contained in the personal course except personal
supervision and correspondence is included in this gen
eral published course.
The order in which the topics are treated has been
changed to meet a different situation. Emphasis has
been placed where emphasis is needed. The sitter has
been cautioned about things and matters before these
rise into his mental view. Re-arranging the course and
including all the essentials have taken several years of
preparation and study.
The Foreword is intended to deal with a problem not
immediately related to the subject which follows in the
instructions. It discusses matters which are inextricably
8 INTRODUCTION TO GENERAL COURSE
interwoven into the personality or character of the per
son, the sitter; matters which in part compose him, which
are a part of him, and which all too often determine
whether he will succeed in his undertakings.
It was not without hesitation that this subject was un
dertaken in the Foreword. Yet if the course were to be
thorough, such instruction regardless of the "taboo,"
must be given. Too infrequently are beginners given in
struction upon the personal mental habits which they
must have in order to achieve their ambition, and never
it seems are they given such instructions when undertak
ing to unfold or develop their psychic talents.
Every one is sensitive about his own short-comings.
An instructor, merely to excuse himself, assumes that the
student possesses the qualities required or will in time
after repeated failures develop these qualities. No one
intentionally wishes to irritate the feelings of a person
by pointing out apparent short-comings in the personal
make-up, the mental make-up, of the person which unless
corrected will prevent him from realizing his ambition.
Still in matters so little understood as psychic matters
these potential dangers must be pointed out.
Since this is a general course instead of a personal
course no one can rightly assume that an admonitory fin
ger is pointed at him. Herein lies the danger. Because
it is not personal the sitter will assume that it does not
apply to him. It is natural for him to believe that these
words of admonition can hardly apply to him. He may
be correct in his belief, nevertheless he should not be too
confident that they do not. 'Tis better to err on the
right side than on the wrong side. The sitter who does
not need the advice of the Foreword is probably already
too self-critical, whereas the sitter who can use the Fore
word to an advantage is too little self-critical. Each
INTRODUCTION TO GENERAL COURSE 9
sitter will have to determine for himself what applies
to him.
Strictly speaking, the matters discussed in the Fore
word do not come under the heading of instructions for
the unfoldment of psychic talents; they are the traits
which the sitter must have if he hopes to succeed in his
undertaking. These traits are not hard to cultivate. So
he should begin by studying thoroughly the Foreword.
His inclination will be to skip through lightly the Fore
word lifting here and there an idea. Instead he should
read and study for all the implications the matters dis
cussed in the Foreword. He should incorporate each
idea, one at a time, into his life until he is in complete
possession of the ideas, and the ideas are in complete
possession of him. He can then move forward smooth
ly.
The sitter should read and re-read the Foreword.
He should review often this Foreword
in
order to
check his directions. The force of repitition of these
ideas will
in
time integrate these ideas into the sitter's
life. The process will not be so observable as notice
able; the change in spiritual direction will not be seen
but felt.
The sitter under these general instructions will find,
after the initial instructions, suitable blanks for record
ing his manifestations or results. Likewise there are
hints about what he can expect
in
his sittings. For con
venience the sittings are broken into groups of four prin
cipal sittings each covering
a
period of four weeks. These
units are not fixed periods; they may vary greatly from
sitter to sitter. These periods are mentioned more to in
dicate that changes do take place in the type of sittings,
in
the manifestations, and
in
the variety of manifesta
tions. Each sitter must guide himself
in
the matter of
10 INTRODUCTION TO GENERAL COURSE
group-unit sittings according to his judgment and deter
mination.
With these few introductory words the author en
trusts to the sitter the results of his years of work in
psychic matters. It is hoped that this course will be as
beneficial to the sitters it reaches as the personal courses,
both correspondence and resident, were. More necessarily
depends upon the sitter using the general course than did
upon those using the correspondence or resident courses.
FOREWORD
The determination to succeed in his unfoldment of his
psychic talents should, early in the course, prompt the
sitter to establish the habit of sitting. He should then
resolve that regardless of what may happen and regard
less of all the obstacles —regardless of anything short
of disaster, he will sit and succeed in the unfoldment of
his psychic talents.
He must realize that there will be many detractions
all pleading, figuratively, for him to forget and neglect
his sittings. But he should remember that the price na
ture or God has placed upon all the prizes is that they
shall be earned. The greater the value of the prize the
more earnings must be given. Psychic unfoldment is no
exception. It cannot be given to or conferred upon a
person; it too must be earned.
Sitting for unfoldment of psychic talents does not re
quire any great amount of effort ; it is no herculean task.
But it does require constant effort. Like any skill
achieved, the unfoldment of psychic talents is the result
of innumerable little efforts rather than one "big" ef
fort. Little by little the greatest tasks are accomplished.
Sitting for unfoldment should, therefore, become a part
of the sitter's daily or weekly routine. These sittings
should become as much a part of his life as are his meals.
By forming the habit of sitting the sitter will provide
Kimself with the impetus which will carry him through
the low points mentioned in the instruction.
How well the sitter applies the principle just men
tioned will be demonstrated by his success.
11
12 FOREWORD
The attitude of the sitter toward his psychic talents
and his purpose in unfolding them, although separate,
are, for the purpose of this Foreword, united under one
head and treated in the same section. In psychic matters
these really two different attitudes are so closely related
that it is difficult at times to separate them by their mani
festations.
The attitude of the sitter toward his psychic talents
and his purpose in unfolding them are, indeed, of very
great importance —to him. It is at this point that the
religious aspect of psychic unfoldment enters. Deter
mination can be created and can be used destructively,
selfishly, or unrighteously. But the right attitude and
purpose cannot be. These grow more or less out of in
sight.
In every serious undertaking there are always personal
prerequisites which the person must possess before he
can even expect to succeed however slightly in his un
dertaking. In some ventures these prerequisites are
courage, stamina, and fortitude. But in undertaking to
unfold psychic talents the person must possess not only
those mentioned but others too. He must be determined
to succeed whatever the cost in time and patience and
must have the right attitude toward his psychic talents.
Both these prerequisites are equally important. Men
tioning one before the other does not indicate any differ
ence in importance. So to take first the determination
to succeed, the sitter must realize that the successful un
foldment of psychic talents is not due to wishing for
their unfoldment. Persistent directed effort is needed.
As every worthwhile accomplishment is the result of in
telligently and expertly applied effort, so is the unfold
ment of psychic talents. There is a wide-spread notion
that the sitter does nothing. The following lessons tell
FOREWORD 13
the sitter how to apply the effort, but he must supply
the effort. The instructions cannot do that part for him.
The greatest danger against which the sitter must
guard
is,
paradoxically, himself. He must guard against
his self-produced excuses and against his own discour
agement. The three evils which on this score he must
guard against are excuses, discouragement, and mental
failure. The first begins and the last ends the under
taking which
is
not a failure but
in
which the person
was unequal to the opportunity. The sitter should re
solve to continue regardless of obstacles. There are
many illustrations which could be used to emphasize
this principle, but enough has been said
in
this Foreword
to cause the sitter to be on guard against these dangers.
This resolution firmly established will do more than
many other things to aid the sitter toward his success.
It
seems to re-align all the mental forces within him. He
moves with the current, not against it. No one knows
the exact effect or cause of this, but
it
is
well known that
a
determined, resolute person succeeds where one equal
ly
capable, but not determined or resolute, fails. Success
is
first mental
;
it
is
a
mental habit. So the sitter should
be determined to succeed
if
he expects to succeed. What
is
worth starting
is
worth finishing.
The attitude of the sitter toward his psychic talents
as well as his purpose
in
unfolding them
is
going to de
termine whether the sitter
is
going to get the enjoyment
out of these talents when unfolded and whether he
is
go
ing to be successful as success
is
measured
in
contentment
and satisfaction. Contentment, satisfaction, and enjoy
ment are locked up in these talents, but only the sitter
himself can unlock them for himself.
Many sitters enter upon their course of sitting with
out instruction
in
this aspect of unfoldment. They go
14 FOREWORD
through the physical exercises of sitting. Their instruc
tors let them believe that all they must do is to "sit."
This act of sitting
is,
truly, important, but
it
is
only the
act which produces itself nothing unless accompanied by
other acts. These other acts are important.
During the course of sitting for unfoldment of psychic
talents the sitter's outlook should undergo
a
gradual
change. He should see these psychic talents as the
Infinite expressing itself through him—as something en
trusted to him not for the purpose of injuring or over
shadowing someone else. Rather these talents are his
only
if
he uses them to help others as well as himself.
He should remember that great abilities usually rest with
those able to use them and willing to subordinate, when
the occasion requires, self
in
the interest of the whole
of mankind. He should keep
a
proper balance between
his wants and ambitions and the requirements of his own
life—the requirements both of him and for himself. He
should not become an un-individualized person, thinking
always of the others. He must live and help to live. He
should be co-operative when the occasion demands and
thoughtful of his own interests when the other
is
not de
manded.
Psychic talents when unfolded should not be used for
gaining through their unfoldment an advantage over
someone else. The sitter should not have this view in
any of its phases. The only personal advantage which
the sitter should consider himself as gaining through the
unfoldment of these psychic talents
is
that advantage
gained through knowing that these talents have helped
someone else.
Psychic talents should be used spiritually to help oth
ers. They are for the benefit of all. The sitter should not
harbor the idea that he
is
God's especially chosen one and,
FOREWORD IS
therefore, unanswerable. He is merely the one entrusted
tentatively with these talents. Of course the person who
has unfolded his psychic talents should be the judge of
how they should be used. However he must keep in
mind that they are his to be used for the benefit of all as
he sees the need of all. He must be alert to perceive the
need of all. With this principle firmly fixed in his mind,
the sitter will not drift far from the right course.
The sitter should, therefore, keep in mind the truth
that the greater the ability of the person, the greater is
the responsibility and obligation of the person.
One further thought, the sitter should not entertain
the idea that he is going to make money through exer
cising his psychic talents. True, every laborer is worthy
of his hire. But the sitter should observe that worth
comes first. The attention of the sitter must not be di
rected toward the pecuniary possibilities which some see
in their psychic talents. Such visions are only illusions.
The sitter who has these possibilities in view is destined
to disappointment and failure. (He should read care
fully the chapter on Guides.) Friends upon the other
side, removed from the temptations and ambitions of
this side, see more clearly the essentials of this side. The
jealousies, envies, and ambitions of this side appear to
those upon the other side of life as futile and meaning
less. They are interested In aiding others in getting
greater experience as they are by others aided in getting
greater experiences. Therefore the term worthy can
not be too strongly emphasized.
Finally, the sitter should acquire, if he does not al
ready have, the attitude, upon entering the course of sit
ting, that he is going to unfold his psychic talents for
the sheer pleasure he will get from using them and for
the opportunity their unfoldment offers the Infinite to
16 FOREWORD
express itself through him. He will find that if he sin
cerely and genuinely adopts this view that many blessings
will come to him. The right attitude and the right pur
pose are essential to this end as well as the successful
unfoldment of psychic talents.
Psychic Instructions
PRELIMINARY INSTRUCTIONS
In every activity either psychical or physical there are
certain fundamentals which must be more or less under
stood by the person and certain processes of accomplish
ment used by the person in order to attain his goal. Gen
erally the fundamentals are knowledge, and the proces
ses are the art of applying this knowledge. The unfold-
ment of psychic talents is no exception. In the next few
pages a general outline of what this knowledge is will
be given followed by instructions how to apply this
knowledge.
First, probably no one knows just what is the ultimate
base of psychical abilities or talents. The most primi
tive, so the author believes, manifestation of this talent
is the hunch. This faculty developed further and vari
ously is called inner vision, cosmic intuition, and medium-
ship. The difference between mediumship, per se, is that
mediumship is used more for the purpose of communica
tion than for the predetermining the probable route
which happenings will take. In fact mediumship derives
its name from this use. Yet all these psychic faculties,
talents, senses, or abilities are founded upon the same
base.
This faculty, talent, or sense —call it what they will,
for the same thing is often called by any one of these
names —is not something which one person has exclus
17
18 PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS
ively. Every person has to a greater or less degree this
ability. The differences seen are due more to the means
used in unfolding it — to the instructions used either
knowingly or unknowingly —than to any basic difference
in the potential ability.
So often the unfoldment of this talent is entrusted to
accident. Just as in other affairs of life some are more
fortunately accidental than are others, so in these psy
chic matters some are more fortunate in their accidents
than are others. The best way is to be eclectic. The
novice should select the best and try to imitate the best.
The mere determination to do this has by some little
known means the tendency to turn the person toward the
best. Of course, the mere act of wishing will not do this,
but something else hidden away in the person will direct
and select the best. The best examples had good idols
is an old, nevertheless true saying.
So the sitter will see that psychic talents, abilities,
sense, or faculty is not what one person has exclusively,
but something which every person has. The important
point is to use it. Use brings forth greater abilities, pro
vided the user is discriminating and critical. The sitter
should begin in a small way to use what he has. The fol
lowing instructions and directions are based upon this
theory.
PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS 19
INSTRUCTIONS
Principal Sittings
In sitting for unfoldment for psychic talents there
are two distinct types of sittings which are designed to
accomplish different ends. The principal sitting is treated
in this section. The auxiliary sitting will be treated in
the next chapter.
The principal sitting is the one which compares except
for results obtained with the seance held by a medium.
The procedure is usually the same. Only there is one per
son sitting instead of the usual group.
But before undertaking this sitting the sitter should
select a time once or twice a week when he will not be
disturbed, when he can retire to a quiet room which is ei
ther dark or darkened. The time should be regularly
kept for this sitting, as it is the "appointment" sitting.
For this sitting it is well to have a darkened room if
it can at all be provided. In the event that the sitter
cannot provide a completely darkened room, one from
which the greater part of the light has been excluded
should be selected and kept for this purpose. The room
need not be used exclusively for this sitting except dur
ing the time of sitting. A bedroom is suitable, provided
it is not noisy, too hot, or too cold. The sitter must be
comfortable. He should suffer during the time of his
sitting from the least possible number of distractions
and annoyances.
Once or twice a week the sitter should retire to this
room for his principal sitting. (The sitter after some
experience may find that once a week is better suited
20 PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS
to his needs, but sittings twice a week at regularly ap
pointed times are recommended.)
The sitter should sit in an easy chair facing any direc
tion which pleases him. He should have before him at
about arm's length away a stand upon which he can place
a trumpet, writing pencil and pad, or any of the other
appurtenances ordinarily found in seances. It is unnec
essary at the start to have these appurtenances, but if the
sitter has them he may put them on the stand. After
taking his seat, he should relax for a few seconds, sing
a song or repeat a prayer. Hymns are usually sung be
cause they produce a religious atmosphere and because
the majority of people know them.
At intervals when the sitter feels himself becoming
tense or his thoughts wandering into every day affairs,
he should sing another song. Some sitters play a phono
graph instead of singing songs. The sitter may adopt
either means.
The object is to restore the sitter to a relaxed passive
state. Whatever will do this will accomplish the pur
pose.
The sitter should not sit longer than thirty minutes, at
the longest forty minutes. A thirty-minute period is bet
ter because the sitter's body does not begin to resist the
unfoldment until about the forty-minute period is
reached. It is well to stop short of this period in order
to be on the safe side. (See Section on Psychic Fa
tigue.) A long sitting actually harms the sitter's un
foldment, by depleting the psychic strength of the sit
ter, more than it helps.
When the sitter thinks that his thirty-minute period
has passed, he should repeat this prayer, leave the room,
take several deep breaths of fresh air, and write the rec
ord of the sitting upon the work-sheets as instructed in
PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS 21
in the Section on Record. Usually in these sittings the
first type of manifestation is that of the impression. An
impression is like a thought but without any previous
mental connection. Many call them "sudden thoughts."
An impression may be followed by related thought, but a
true impression is not preceded by related thoughts. It
is sometimes difficult to distinguish the difference between
a thought and an impression especially if the person re
ceives an impression about something about which he has
just been thinking. A little experience, however, will
enable him to distinguish the difference. The sitter should
watch for fragmentary impressions. These are men
tioned again in the Section on Record.
As the sittings proceed and as the friends upon the
other side become informed of the undertaking and be
come more experienced in penetrating the sitter's con
sciousness even for the infinitesimal part of a second,
the results will become more numerous and varied. There
will be a greater variety, usually, of manifesttations as
the friends try one avenue after another.
But since there is such a variation in the abilities of
friends upon the other side, as there is a variation of
abilities and interests of people upon this side, no fixed
standard of time or order of manifestations can be set.
Each sitter's experience is almost another problem. So
he should not expect the same manifestations in the same
order which some others receive. His will be personal.
This is an additional reason for keeping the record.
These principal sittings should be at regular interval
as at nearly the same time of day as possible. In this
way the friends upon the other side will know when to
expect the sitter to sit. A change of time should be made
only after mentioning it in the sitting and putting it in
the Record.
22 PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS
Auxiliary Sittings
The auxiliary sitting as mentioned in the previous sec
tion is designed to accomplish entirely different aims
from those for whch the principal sitting is designed.
The auxiliary sitting might be termed a practice sitting,
although it is not precisely a practice sitting.
Since complete relaxation is essential to the unfoldr
ment of one's psychic talents into mediumship, the aux
iliary sitting enables the sitter to learn how to relax and
to become passive in a sitting separate from the princi
pal sitting. The procedure for this sitting is simple.
The sitter should find some time during the day when
he can sit down for fifteen minutes. He should relax
and strive to become mentally passive. Everyday dur
ing the first month's sitting he should do this, and he
should continue this type of sitting as long and as often
as he personally feels the need. At first the novelty of
this sitting will prevent the sitter from becoming relaxed
and passive. But in time he will be able to do this more
or less efficiently and at will.
There should be no disturbances about the sitter when
he is trying to relax. He should not worry about the
time. In fact he should, as much as he can, forget the
work-a-day world with all its demands.
In this auxiliary sittings the sitter should breathe eas
ily and deeply, as deep as he can without straining.
No especial time need be set aside for this sitting, but
a very good time is that immediately before retiring at
night. This time is suggested because so many have
found this time to be the best. Some who are tired at
PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS 23
this time should select another time when they are not
so physically fatigued. Each sitter will have to select a
time which fits his own needs and conditions.
This sitting has but one purpose ; namely, to train the
sitter to relax at will and habitually. The oftener the
sitter does this, the more firmly established the habit
will become. The sitter should not, however, overdo this.
It is essential that the sitter carry on this type of sitting
throughout his first months of sittings, after which if he
perceives the need of fewer sittings he can reduce the
number of auxiliary sittings a week. He should not
abandon this sitting entirely. Practice makes perfect
and enables one to perfect his skill.
24 PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS
Guides
Mediumship in order to be successful must have the
active co-operation of friends upon the other side. These
friends must know the route back and must be able to
show others not familiar with the route how to travel
over this route. These friends who are more or less
attached to mediums are called guides. These guides
by their personalities and temperaments determine great
ly whether the mediums to whom they have attached
themselves will be popular and helpful or unpopular and
harmful.
No one assigns guides; they are attracted by the sit
ter in the same fashion the sitter attracts his friends
upon this side. The sitter's interests, his attitude, his
purpose—all these either attract or repel guides as they
attract or repel friends and acquaintances upon this side.
Of course almost every personality upon this side has its
admirer upon the other side. This fact accounts for the
great differences in the personal quality of guides if
guides can be described as having "quality."
Consequently no medium whoever he is can secure
the services of a person upon the other side to act as a
guide for the sitter contrary to the wishes of the person
who is to act as guide. Each sitter must attract his own
guides. The very act of beginning to sit in earnest will
attract, so the author believes, to the sitter someone from
the other side with kindred interests and aims and cap
able of aiding the sitter. It is unnecessary to know the
names of these guides, for very often guides like to con
ceal their names and identities until they can be certain
PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS 25
that the sitters are sincere and in earnest in their sit
tings.
There is no point in knowing the names of guides as
names are "worn" upon this side, for the honors and ac
claim of this side vanish upon the other side. The per
son as he is stands out in bold relief, upon the other side,
free from the illusions of this side. The sitter should
be sure that his own motives and purposes are the best;
the rest will in turn take care of itself.
These guides are the ones who experiment in medium-
ship to find the best method of producing the manifesta
tions sought. They develop their own technique of con
ducting and ordering 'their meetings. Unfoldment is
principally this—taking the undeveloped instrument and
fashioning it into a developed, skilled instrument for
their use. The guides learn by their own experience
and experiments, while the sitter also learns to become
passive and relaxed. The unfoldment of mediumship is
still in empirical stages. The sitter likewise acquires
the skill in doing the things upon this side which are nec
essary to be done. This is true regardless of the medi
umship which the sitter is attempting to develop.
All the previous discussion on the subject of Guides
relates to those who attach themselves to people in or
der to fulfill the urge to help folk upon this side of life
as well as those upon the other side of life.
But there is another type of guide, which cannot be
ignored. This type of guide is either a relative or a
friend whose love causes him to strive to help the one
left behind. This type of guide is more properly called
the guardian angel. These are the ones who strive with
their advice to aid those left behind.
Sometimes the guardian angel type of guide is inter
ested in the unfoldment or development of the prospec
26 PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS
tive medium, but usually this type of guide is more inter
ested in the happiness and contentment of the sitter.
There is considerable overlapping of functions of the
two types of guides, as one of one type assumes the
functions and employments of the other. Nevertheless
guides will be found generally to fall into these two
classes.
Conseqeuently, the sitter should understand that there
is really nothing mysterious about the subject of guides.
The same manifestations socially take place upon the
other side as upon this side. People of similar interests
are attracted to people of like interests.
If the sitter wishes to attract the highest type of guide,
he must personally be deserving of the highest type of
guide. A rogue cannot attract a saint, nor an ignor
amus a scholar, unless other considerations overwhelm
the personal preferences of the guide.
Guides must be viewed as real friends who are willing
to co-operate with sitters because there is some mutual
advantage to both.
PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS 27
Psychic Fatigue
There is one point against which all sincere guides and
instructors warn beginners. It is psychic fatigue. It
never seemingly penetrates the consciousness of the sit
ters that they can become so psychically fatigued that
they are actually injuring themselves psychically by ex
cessive sitting. For this reason the sitter is cautioned
against sitting too often and too long. The sittings pre
scribed in the previous chapters are a safe maximum of
psychic exertions. There may be exceptions when it
would be safe to sit for longer periods more often, but
these are rare instances.
The sitter must not think that simply because he is
still getting results that work is still progressing. Very
often sitters will get results for a long period of time,
but when all the sittings are measured they will discover
that they are not getting different results, that the guides
are constantly doing the same things. There should be
a progressive change in the type of manifestations. There
should be movement, as it were, from the simple to the
complex phases or kinds of manifestations. This move
ment is usually marked by the progression through the
various mental phases into finally the physical phases.
Some guides prefer the mental phases which they de
velop to a very high degree. But usually they proceed
into the physical phases.
It behooves the sitter to follow the directions herein
given very closely until he is sure that he can safely ex
periment. Each of the two sittings a week of the begin
ner should not exceed, as before prescribed, forty min
28 PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS
utes. When the sitter does begin to experiment, he should
do this only by impression or after careful consideration.
By following closely the directions and instructions of
this course, the sitter can be sure that he will not become
psychically fatigued or exhausted. The sitter should not
let his enthusiasm direct his sittings and their length. He
should be guided by tested experience so far as that is
available.
Psychic fatigue and physical fatigue follow, to use a
graph as an illustration, almost the same curve. When
a sitter is physically fatigued, he is usually psychically fa
tigued. Thus a sitter should take care to arrange his
sittings so that they will occur when he is not physically
or mentally fatigued, for the chances are that he will be
psychically fatigued too. These three are so interlocked
that one affects the other two.
PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS 29
Record
In a course of instruction on the unfoldment of psy
chic talents, there is one feature which all sitters are
prone to neglect. They somehow think it unnecessary
to keep a record. They believe that what they know
others know. Hence they can see no need for keeping
a record of every principal sitting. Yet this keeping
of the record ranks with the others in importance. Mem
ory cannot and must not be trusted.
Every sitter should keep a record of the manifesta
tions which he receives in his sittings, especially the prin
cipal sittings. He should record in this the time he sat,
the length of the sitting, the things heard, seen, and felt.
This record need not be lengthy, but it should be com
plete enough to suggest to the mind of the sitter what
actually took place.
The record well kept enables the sitter to weave to
gether the "story" of his unfoldment. In one sitting he
may get an impression or other manifestation which is
not completed until the next or another sitting. From
these fragments the sitter can determine for himself
how well he is going. He can see the manifestations, not
as disjointed occurrences but as a connected series.
The keeping of the record accomplishes something
else—it enables those upon the other side to know what
manifestations reached the consciousness of the sitter or
of what he was aware. It is not always true that those
manifestations of which the sitter is aware were the only
ones attempted by the friends. Something which es
caped the attention or failed to register upon the con
30 PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS
sciousness of the sitter might have been attempted.
Where the record is fixed upon paper it seems easier for
the guides to gather their information, possibly because
they have a longer time in which to do it. Or it might
be that the recalling and recording of the results by the
sitter in some way notifies them. Once informed what
channels proved effective, the guides concentrate their
efforts toward developing these channels.
Usually, though not always, the first channel opened
is the impressional one. An impression, as mentioned
before, can be compared with a thought with this im
portant exception that it does not have an antecedent
related thought.
The record enables the sitter from the manifestations
he has received over a period of time to determine what
phase of mediumship is apparently his forte. He can
tell this by the number of times this phase has evidenced
itself in his sittings.
PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS 31
Periodicity
There is one matter in sitting for unfoldment which
seems to mystify every sitter. For the want of a better
name it is called periodicity of results. Each period of
results or manifestations is followed by a lull or non
productive period. The proportion of productive to
non-productive sittings varies from four to one to one to
one. There is not fixed ratio which applies to all sit
ters.
This matter is mentioned here only because it tends to
alarm the sitter. He very often concludes that he is per
sonally at fault in his work, that there is something amiss
with his routine or application.
But every period of psychical exertion is followed by
a period of rest. This period of rest is usually utilized
by the guides and friends to consolidate their gains and
to determine what tack they shall next take. During
these periods of lull the sitter's perseverance will be test
ed. His patience will be tried. Many fail because they
are so easily discouraged. At this point the habit of sit
ting should carry the sitter through. It does no good to
berate the friends and guides, for they are as eager as
the sitter to get results. They can go no faster than the
material they are using will permit, nor faster than their
own ability to learn will permit.
Fretfulness and nervousness are merely going to pro
long the period when no results are obtained. The sit
ter should simply abide his time until the productive per
iod re-appears. The sitter's health or physical condition
56 PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS
curtains should touch the floor and exclude light from the
cabinet. A dim red light should be put in the other cor
ner of the room and lighted during the sitting. The
light from this source should be just enough to throw into
outline the form of a person standing in front of the cab
inet. The sitter should sit inside the cabinet. These
are briefly the conditions required for the final develop
ment of materialization.
In spite of the instructions given above, the sitter is
advised against sitting by himself for materialization es
pecially before he has developed firmly his mental phases.
But the sitter who feels those cob-web coverings or
masses upon his hands and face may be sure that he has,
as said, materialization "forces." A full treatise could
be written upon the phase of materialization, but this is
no place for that.
The sitter should continue to keep his Record and to
use his mental phases of mediumship.
PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS 33
Sitting Work Sheet
Month from to
Note: Be brief yet complete in recording the demonstrations re
ceived in the sittings. If necessary use additional sheets. Under
score important demonstrations. Refer to these notes of record
frequently.
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
Each of the above spaces is ordinarily enough space for the record
of one principal sitting. Five spaces are provided to accommodate
the record of months in which there are five sitting weeks. All
the sittings of one week are considered one sitting whether one or
two principal sittings.
58 PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS
Sitting Hints, Nine
The physical phases are so many and varied that each
cannot in turn be discussed in these "Hints." Only the
conditions and peculiarities to all can be outlined. It is
entirely possible that the guides of each sitter must use
an entirely different means from any means used before
by other guides in getting their manifestations through.
Guides have ways upon the other side of learning what
others have done.
The principal markings of the physical phases are the
presence of ectoplasm, lights, whispers, raps, noises, etc.
These are all part and parcel of the physical phases —
they are the beginning manifestations. The sitter who
gets any or all of these manifestations should not feel
alarmed about their presence. They are a good omen.
He should keep a careful record of the manifestations
both physical and mental which he receives. By look
ing back over this Record, which should be secret so that
he can include everything in
it,
he can review the route he
has followed and can see the direction
in
which he
is
psy
chically travelling. In developing mediumship the sit
ter must know what he
is
trying to do
;
he must have clear
ideas. His thoughts cannot be vague or his ideas nebu
lous. Then he should follow his impressions, for they
are the directions received from his own guides and
friends upon the other side. He should respond to these
impressions relating to his sittings.
It
is
important that the sitter as soon as possible get on
"his own." He will, true, make mistakes. He will blun
der. Many times he will feel that he
is
walking on
a
PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS 59
treadmill, but if he has the stamina, he will continue and
finally succeed. The only person who succeeds is the one
who does not fear failure and who is not dismayed by
failure. Success is not a gift of the Gods ; it is the reward
of effort, determination, and courage.
By this time the sitter should have progressed substan
tially in his development and should have a very com
plete Record of the manifestations he has received in the
months of his sittings. He must continue as long as he
sits to compile this Record. From the steps shown in this
course, the sitter, it is hoped, has learned how to walk.
There would be nothing gained by the sitter's continu
ing to lean upon the instructor as upon a crutch. Up to
a certain point an instructor is useful, but beyond that
point only a coach is occasionally needed.
The sitter should use his abilities, talents, faculties—
his mediumship. He will be surprised how quickly it will
in this way grow. And the sitter should continue his sit
tings even after he has developed a phase of mediumship.
It is possible to grow even after one has attained what
to him is his full stature.
36 PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS
Sitting Work Sheet
Month from to
Note: Be brief yet complete in recording the demonstrations re
ceived in the sittings. If necessary use additional sheets. Under
score important demonstrations. Refer to these notes of record
frequently.
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
Each of the above spaces is ordinarily enough space for the record
of one principal sitting. Five spaces are provided to accommodate
the record of months in which there are five sitting weeks. All
the sittings of one week are considered one sitting whether one or
two principal sittings.
PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS 55
Sitting Hint, Eight
The presence of materializing "tendencies" or "forc
es" as they are often called is indicated in a rather unique
way. Unless the sitter is schooled in what the various
indications are, he will pass through these without know
ing or realizing just what happened.
Materialization like other physical phases utilizes in
its production that substance called ectoplasm. This
substance is either attracted to the spirit person as in eth-
erealization, a sub-phase of materialization, who wishes
to manifest or is modelled by the guides into a form
which that person uses. Both explanations are given be
cause both methods are used. The former is used chiefly
in etherealization. Etherealization is luminous in a dar
kened room. The latter method is the one means used
more often in materialization.
The sitter may in his sittings by this time be aware
of the presence of a substance which against his skin
feels much like cob-webs. Brush as he will he cannot
remove this substance, for his own body is exuding this
substance. This is the primary manifestation of materi
alization. There is a great distance to go before this
actually develops into materialization, but it is the be
ginning.
If the sitter after receiving this type of manifestation
feels impressed that he should sit for materialization,
he should proceed to erect a cabinet — an enclosure —
across the corner of the room. The front curtains should
be so made as to allow separation between the two parts,
which when hanging loosely should close the cabinet. The
62 PSYCHIC INSTRUCTIONS
These classes should be conducted as the principal sit
tings were. The time of sitting should be regular, and of
the same length as that of the principal sitting. Each
member should keep a personal Record of his own mani
festations.
The sitter's own guides and friends are now capable
of assuming control of these sittings. The time will not
now be wasted as it would have been if neither his nor his
friends' guides and friends has had experience in these
psychic matters.
The physical phases, although they have been devel
oped by sitting alone, are more easily unfolded in a small
class than by solo sitting. The sitter should start his class
as soon as possible. (See "Hint" on materialization,
a phase which can be developed only in class sittings.)
The sitter in these sittings should follow the same pro
cedure he follows in his principal sittings.
If the writer were asked the one act which is most im
portant to the sitter's unfolding his mediumship, he
would unhesitatingly say that it is to use, however great
or small, his mediumship as developed. The sitter can
not be too strongly impressed with the necessity of using
his mediumship as he develops it. He should not post
pone this step until he is completely developed. Mediums
are constantly improving their mediumship.
The sitter can, if necessary, devise his own ways of
using his mediumship. Very little can be accomplished,
however, by imitating religiously the ways of others.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
3 9015 06355 0829
