{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__frazer___totemica.pdf","mytitle":"Totemica","mylang":"de"}
TOTEMICA
A SUPPLEMENT TO
TOTEMISM AND EXOGAMY
Sir JAMES GEORGE FRAZER
O.M., F.R.S., F.B.A.
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge
Associate Member of the " Institut de Fran'ce"
MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED
ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON
1937
COPVRIC.HT
PRINTKD IN GREAT BRITAIN
BY K. & R. CLARK, LIMITED, EDINBURGH
4-0 1
TO
SIR ROBERT MOND
the generous friend of learning
and worthy scion of his noble race
i dedicate this book
in gratitude and high esteem
James George Frazer
MAY 1937
o
%
441155
PREFACE
Since the publication of my book Tote^nism and Exogamy
in 1 910, much fresh information on the subject has been
collected in various parts of the world by many enquirers
well fitted by their training and abilities to do justice to the
theme. In this volume I have endeavoured to present to
the reader a clear view of the principal results of their re-
searches, arranged in a roughly geographical order. Begin-
ning with Australia, the classical land of Totemism, I shall
ask the reader to follow me through Melanesia to New
Guinea, thence on to India and Africa. Finally we shall
end in America, from which our first knowledge of the name
and institution of Totemism was derived. The stream of
new information has flowed chiefly from Australia, hence I
have been led to treat Australian evidence at much greater
length than any other part of my subject, but not at greater
length, I hope, than the importance of the new matter
deserves ; for it is to Australia, with its varied and very
primitive forms of Totemism, that we must ultimately look,
if we are ever to find a clue to the problem of the origin and
meaning of the institution.
J. G FRAZER
Cambridge
wth April 1937
CONTENTS
BOOK I
TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA
CHAP. PAGE
I. Australian Totemism in General. ... 3
II. Totemism of the Tiwi of Melville and Bathurst
Islands, in the Northern Territory . . 7
III. Totemism of the K>.kadu and other Tribes of the
Northern Territory . . . . .21
IV. Totemism of the Kariera and other Tribes of West
Australia . . . . . .
-53
V. Totemism of the Karadjeri and other Tribes of the
Kimberley Division, West Australia . . 65
VI. Totemic Rock-Paintings in West Australia . . 123
VII. Totemism in South-West Australia . . .152
VIII. Totemism in South Australia . . . -155
Eastern or " Lakes " Group . . . . .156
The Western Group . . . . . .161
The Macumba Sub-Tribe of the Arunta . . . 167
IX. Totemism in East Australia . . . .174
X. Totemism in Queensland . . . . . 188
Totemic Hero Cults in Cape York Peninsula . .213
Totemism in Other Tribes of Queensland . . . 243
XI. Totemism among the Tribes of Central Australia 251
BOOK II
TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA
I. Totemism in New Caledonia .... 261
II. Totemism in the Loyalty Islands . . . 269
ix
X TOTEMICA
CHAP. PAGE
III. TOTEMISM IN THE NEW HEBRIDES .... 27I
IV. TOTEMISM IN TiKOPIA ...... 284
V. TOTEMISM IN THE SANTA CRUZ GrOUP AND IN THE SHORT-
LAND Islands ...... 301
VI. TOTEMISM IN THE SOLOMON ISLANDS . . . 303
VII. TOTEMISM IN ONTONG JAVA ..... 31O
VIII. TOTEMISM IN THE LOUISIADE GROUP . . . 314
IX. TOTEMISM IN THE D'ENTRECASTEAUX ARCHIPELAGO .
317
X. TOTEMISM IN THE TROBRIAND ISLANDS . . . 32O
XI. TOTEMISM IN New Britain and New Ireland . 322
BOOK III
TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA
I. TOTEMISM IN British New Guinea (Papua)
II. Totemism in Dutch New Guinea
329
358
BOOK IV
TOTEMISM IN INDIA
I. Totemism in Chota Nagpur
§ I. Totemism of the Birhors
§ 2. Totemism of the Oraons
II. Totemism in the Central Provinces
§ I. Totemism of the Bhaina
§ 2. Totemism of the Bhils .
§ 3. Totemism of the Gonds
§ 4. Totemism of the Kharia
§ 5. Totemism of the Kols .
§ 6. Totemism of the Majhwar
§ 7. Totemisrai of the Nahals
§ 8. Totemism of the Parja
§ 9. Totemism of the Rautia
§ 10. Totemism of the Bhuinars
§ II. Totemism of the Pandos
III. Totemism in the Bombay Presidency
IV. Totemism in Mysore .
V. Traces of Totemism in the Punjab
365
365
373
381
381
382
384
387
388
389
390
391
392
392
393
394
400
401
CONTENTS
BOOK V
TOTEMISM IN AFRICA
CHAP. PAGE
I. TOTEMISM IN South Africa .... 405
§ I. Totemism of the Basuto (Sotho) and Nguni (Angoni) 405
§ 2. Totemism of the Bushmen of the Kalahari Desert,
the Hottentots, and the Bechuanas . . . 406
§ 3. Totemism of the Bavenda .... 408
§4. Totemism of the Pedi ..... 414
II. Totemism in Rhodesia ..... 416
§ I. Totemism of the Mashona .... 416
§ 2. Totemism of the Ila-speaking Peoples of Northern
Rhodesia . . .418
§ 3. Totemism of the Ba-Kaonde .... 422
§ 4. Totemism of the Awemba .... 424
III. Totemism in East Africa ..... 427
§ I. Totemism of the Elgeyo Tribe .... 427
§ 2. Totemism of the Embu Tribes .... 428
§ 3. Totemism of the Lango .... 429
§ 4. Totemism of the Nilotic Tribes on the Upper Nile 431
IV. Totemism in Uganda . . .
'
. . 439
V. Totemism in Kiziba ...... 45°
VI. Totemism of the Barundi ..... 452
VII. Totemism in Northern Nigeria .... 455
Totemism of the Bachama and Mbula . . .
455
Totemism of the Bata-speaking Peoples . . . 458
Totemism of the Bura and Pabir Tribes . . 458
Totemism of the Mumuye and neighbouring Tribes . 460
Totemism of the Katab ..... 460
Totemism of the Kurama of Zaria Province . . 462
Totemism of the Kare-Kare of Bornu Province . . 464
Totemism of the Ngizim of Bornu Province . . 464
Totemism of the Kanakuru of Adamawa Province . 466
Totemism of the Jukun ..... 469
VIII. Totemism in Central Nigeria .... 471
IX. Totemism in Southern Nigeria .... 476
X. Totemism in Ashanti and thf Northern Territories
of the Gold Coast ..... 478
§ I. Totemism in Ashanti ..... 478
§ 2. Totemism in the Northern Territories of the Gold
Coast . . . .481
xii TOTEMICA
CHAP. PAGE
XI. TOTEMISM ON THE IVORY COAST .... 491
XII. TOTEMISM IN Liberia ...... 494
XIII. TOTEMISM IN Sierra Leone ..... 496
BOOK VI
TOTEMISM IN NORTH AMERICA
I. TOTEMISM OF THE WINNEBAGO INDIANS . . . 50I
II. TOTEMISM OF THE CREEK CONFEDERACY . . . 508
III. TOTEMISM OF THE CHITIMACHAS . . . -511
INDEX 513
BOOK I
TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA
CHAPTER I
AUSTRALIAN TOTEMISM IN GENERAL
Any enquiry into the geographical distribution of totemism
in the world should begin with an examination of totemism
among the aborigines of Australia, which may be called the
great motherland of totemism, for not only is the institution
characteristic of the whole aboriginal race of that continent,
but some of its forms seem to shed a strong light on the vexed
question of the origin and meaning of totemism in general.
On this point I will quote the opinion of Professor A. P.
Elkin of Sydney University, who by his personal researches
in many of the tribes and his careful sifting of the evidence
in all has earned him the right to speak with high authority
on every question of Australian totemism.
" Australia has long been considered the ideal ' laboratory
'
for the study of totemism, and it still is so, not only because
totemism is found everywhere on the continent, but also
because almost every conceivable variety—both as regards
distribution and function—seems to be found in it. And
what is more, in several tribes we can see several varieties
existing and functioning together. Thus in the tribes of
north-eastern South Australia, matrilineal social totemism,
patrilineal cult totemism, matrilineal cult totemism, dream
totemism, and sex totemism function together in a most
interesting manner, and serve to form the social and religious
unity of the tribe." ^
And with regard to the importance of the study of
Australian totemism for the whole outlook of the aboriginals
^ A. P. Elkin, " Totemism in berley Division)," in Oceania, vol. iii.
North-Western Australia (The Kim- No. 3 (Melbourne, March 1933), p. 258.
3
4 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA BK. I
on the world of man and Nature, Professor Elkin observes :
" Totemism then is our key to the understanding of the
aboriginal philosophy and the universe—a philosophy which
regards man and Nature as one corporate whole for social,
ceremonial, and religious purposes, a philosophy which from
one aspect is pre-animistic but from another is animistic, a
philosophy which is historical, being formed on the heroic
acts of the past which provide the sanctions for the present,
a philosophy which, indeed, passes into the realm of religion
and provides that faith, hope, and courage in the face of his
daily needs which man must have if he is to persevere and
persist, both as an individual and as a social being." ^
In what follows I shall attempt to give some account of
the more important discoveries in Australian totemism which
have been made since the publication of my book, Toteniis^n
and Exogamy, in 1910, arranging the materials in a roughly
geographical order. I shall begin with Melville and Bathurst
Islands, lying off the north-west coast of the continent, and
then follow the coastline through West Australia to South
Australia, and then northward along the eastern coast to
Queensland. Finally I shall take some notice of the tribes
of the centre, the subjects of the comprehensive and now
classical researches of Sir Baldwin Spencer and F. J. Gillen,
to which subsequent enquiry seems to have added little of
importance.
A clear and comprehensive summary of our knowledge of
Australian totemism down to 1930, based partly on personal
researches in various parts of the continent, has been given
by Prof. A. R. Radclifife-Brown.^ The convenient termin-
ology which he proposes for the exogamous divisions of the
Australian tribes (hordes, moieties, sections, and sub-sections)
is now generally accepted, and will be followed by me in this
work in preference to the terms phratries, classes, and sub-
classes which I had used in my previous work.
To explain much that follows with regard to the social
organisation of the Australian tribes I will here add that they
^ A. P. Elkin, " Studies in Aus- Social Organization of the Australian
tralian Totemism," in Oceania, vol. iv. Tribe, Oceania Monograph, No. i
No. 2 (Dec. 1933), p. 131. (Melbourne and London, 1931).
2 A. R. Radcliffe- Brown, The
CH. I AUSTRALIAN TOTEMISM IN GENERAL 5
are normally distributed into two, four, or eight exogamous
subdivisions, that is, subdivisions in which men may not
marry women within their own subdivision. It is highly
significant that the subdivisions are invariably two or mul-
tiples of two in number, and seem to have been produced by
successive bisections of the tribe, at first into two, then into
four, and finally into eight subdivisions, for in many parts of
Australia, especially in the centre and in the north-west, these
subdivisions are actually spreading at the present day. It is
also highly significant with regard to the meaning of these
successive subdivisions that the effect of dividing a tribe into
two exogamous subdivisions is to prevent the marriage of
brothers and sisters ;
that the division of the tribe into four
subdivisions excludes the marriage of parents with children ;
and that the final division into eight subdivisions excludes
the marriage of own first or cross-cousins, which before the
final subdivision had already been prohibited in many tribes.
It seems difficult or impossible to believe that these successive
exogamous divisions were not made for the express purpose
which they now serve, namely to prevent the marriage of
near kin, the successive subdivisions indicating a growing
scr-uple as to the marriage of such persons. These successive
subdivisions are normally totemic, that is, are associated
with totems ; but elsewhere I have shown reason for thinking
that toteniism existed in Australia before the introduction of
the exogamous divisions, in other words, that in Australia
totemism as a social institution is older then exogamy.^
It is interesting to observe that on the question whether
close inbreeding is injurious or not to the stock that practises
it, a question on which modern science is still divided, the
very primitive aborigines of Australia have adopted so
decided an opinion of the extremely prejudicial tendency of
close inbreeding that they have actually, to all appearances,
unanimously and from time immemorial, instituted an elabor-
ate and very effective form of social organisation for the
express purpose of preventing it. For any serious breach of
the social order thus established, the usual penalty was death.
When we consider the extremely backward state in which
^
J. G. Frazer, Totemism and Exogamy (London, 1910 and 1935), iv.
9sqq.
6 TOTEMISM IN A USTKALIA BK. I
these savages were found at the date of their discovery
tov^ards the end of the eighteenth century, and in which the
great hulk of them still remain, we may be disposed to doubt
whether they have really benefited by the institution, and
whether it may not rather have served as a clog than a spur
to progress. Certainly the innumerable bars which the
rigorous system of exogamy characteristic of their social
organisation opposes to the legitimate union of the sexes in
marriage must have often retarded, if it did not positively
arrest, that natural increase of population which is one of
the most obvious features of a progressive population.
CHAPTER II
TOTEMISM OF THE TIWI OF MELVILLE AND BATHURST
ISLANDS, IN THE NORTHERN TERRITORY
Lying off the coast of the Northern Territory, in north-
west Austraha, are the two large islands of Melville and
Bathurst. Of these Melville is the largest island in the
possession of the Australian Commonwealth with the excep-
tion of Tasmania and Papua. It is about 70 miles long by
40 iniles wide. Though the islands were distant only some
50 miles from the mainland, which is visible in clear weather,
the aboriginal inhabitants seem to have had no intercourse
whatever with Australia, which they regarded as the abode
of departed souls, the home of the dead. They seem to have
called themselves Tiwi, but to have made little use of the
name, having no reason to distinguish themselves from other
people, of whose existence they were totally ignorant, believing
apparently that they were the only people existing in the
world. ^ These isolated islanders were first visited and
described by Sir Baldwin Spencer, who paid them a visit of
six weeks in 191 2, and later in the year revisited them. His
general account of the natives runs as follows :
" There was first of all the main separation of the natives
into Melville Islanders and Bathurst Islanders. They speak
the same language, perform the same ceremonies, use the
same objects and make implements all quite distinct from
those of the mainland, and yet, though separated only by the
narrow Apsley Strait, are, in certain respects, apart from
one another in feelings. The men of Melville Island periodi-
^ C. W. M. Hart, "The Tiwi of Oif6'a«?'a, vol. i. No. 2 (Melbourne, July
Melville and Bathurst Islands," in 1930), pp. 165-170.
7
8 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA BK. I
cally raid the Bathurst territory—even carry off their women
—and vice versa. Each island, again, is divided up into
local areas, much like, for example, the counties of England,
the boundaries of which are well known and in each of which
there is a main camping ground, like a primitive county
capital, but in this case the buildings are only log and bark
huts. The Tjikalauulla and Malauulla are two of these
groups of Bathurst Island, and, after long enquiry, we were
able to find out the names of others. There seemed to be
more on Melville than on Bathurst Island, but, for some
reason, it was hard to find out the exact number. Probably
this is to be explained by the extraordinary reticence of a
native, that is, of one who is more or less in his natural state
and uncontaminated by contact with w^hite men, to speak of
anything that concerns groups of people other than his own.
Officially, he is not supposed to know about such things : he
resents anyone prying into his own private matters, or those
that he regards as such, partly perhaps because, in many
cases, he thinks that strangers with too much knowledge
might be thereby helped in working him some harm. The
result is that it is often difficult to gain what seems to you to
be very simple and harmless knowledge from some special
man, while another wall part with it to you freely. When
once the native is semi-civilised, this difficulty of gaining
information largely disappears, but then there arises another
one-—how far is the information reliable, or how far is it due
to a desire to provide the white man with knowledge that the
native shrewdly sees he wants to have ? I think the list for
Melville Island, which I got later, wuth the help of Cooper,
is fairly complete, but, though we were now on Bathurst
Island, it was impossible to get the names of more than four
local groups. . . .
" So far as I could find out, no one married within his
own local group ; he had to obtain his wife from another,
and she also had to belong to a totem different from his own." ^
Elsewhere, speaking of the social organisation of the
Australian tribes in general, Spencer observes :
" There are
very wide differences between various tribes in regard to
^ Baldwin Spencer, Wanderi7igs in Wild Australia, ii. (London, 1928)
p. 911 sq.
CH. II MELVILLE AND BATHURST ISLANDS g
organisation, and it is interesting to notice that what are
presumably the most modified tribes, are met with on the far
northern coastal districts and on Melville and Bathurst
Islands. At the other extremity of Australia, in its extreme
south-eastern corner, we meet with equally modified tribes,
or did so until some years ago. In both parts—the north
and the south—the most striking feature is that there is no
trace left of classes,^ or at most a very doubtful one, and that
the organisation is essentially a local one, with, in the north,
an attendant, well-marked totemic system.
" The tribes we are now dealing with may be divided into
two main groups : (A) those without class organisation, and
(B) those with class organisation.
Tribes without Class Organisation
Bathur'st and Melville Isla^ids
" These two islands are inhabited by a tribe of wild and,
physically, remarkably well-developed natives, who are
easily distinguishable from all others by the way in which
they ornament their bodies with a series of V-shaped cica-
trices, which they call Miunga, and are supposed to represent
the barbs on their heavy spears. So far as my experience
goes, the marks on these islanders are the only ones which
serve to identify the particular tribe to which any special
individual belongs. From the region of Lake Eyre in the
south, across the continent to Darwin and away east to the
Gulf of Carpentaria, though all natives are more or less
marked with cicatrices, there is nothing in them which is in
any way distinctive of totenj, class, or particular tribe. The
nearest approach to anything of this kind are the cuts made
on the backs of adult men in the Urabunna, Dieri, Wonk-
gongaru, and other tribes, who have passed through the
Wilyaru, or its equivalent, final initiation ceremony. These
marks, however, are characteristic of the whole of the Dieri
nation and not of any class, or special tribe. The Melville
and Bathurst Islanders can, however, always be distinguished,
^ By classes Spencer means the tribes, which are now known as moi-
exogamous subdivisions of Australian eties, sections, and subsections.
lo TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
and the fact that they can serves to emphasise still more
strongly the absence of any such possibility in the case of all
the mainland tribes in Central and Northern Australia.
" Despite repeated enquiries, I have not been able to find
out any true tribal name for the islanders. There are
definite and well-known names applied to local groups, but,
though doubtless it exists, I tried in vain to find out a name
equivalent to that of Larakia or Kakadu.^ My informants,
also, knew of the existence of these and other tribal names
on the mainland. It is astonishing how difficult it often is to
get reliable information in regard to a subject such as this,
where there is, apparently, no question of the matter being of
a sacred or secret nature. As a matter of fact, in all tribes
the tribal name is not often used and, very often, there is one
name applied by the members to themselves and quite a
different one by outsiders. The Larakia natives at Darwin
speak of Bathurst and Melville as Wongok ; the natives on
the latter call both the mainland and the natives there
Jeruula. The natives at Cape Donn, near Essington, call
Melville Island, which they can see across the w^ater,
Wamuk.
" The natives, on both Bathurst and Melville Islands, are
divided into a series of local groups, each of which is sup-
posed to occupy and own a special well-defined district. . . .
Though their language, customs, and beliefs are identical,
there is only a certain amount of intercourse between the
natives of the two islands, who are, at least, mutually dis-
trustful of one another. Every now and then the men from
a camp on one side of Apsley Strait will raid a camp on the
other."
Spencer then gives a list of twelve groups on Melville and
three on Bathurst.
" The separation of the local groups from one another is
very clearly marked indeed if they come together for the
performance of special ceremonies, such as those connected
with mourning. When I was last on Bathurst Island, watch-
ing these ceremonies, there were representatives of two local
groups present called respectively Malauulla and Tjikalau-
ulla. They camped some distance away from one another,
^ Two tribes of the mainland investigated by Spencer. See below, pp. 21 sqq.
CH. II MELVILLE AND BATHURST ISLANDS
and though they foregathered during the actual dancing,
yet, immediately this was over, they separated.
" I was unable to ascertain anything definite in regard to
the marriage system beyond the fact, as described in con-
nection with the account of totemic systems, that it is closely
associated with and regulated by the totemic groups. In
some cases it is certainly concerned with the local group, a
man of one group taking as a wife a woman of another, who
then comes into his own group to which his children also
belong, but, whether this is always the case, I cannot say
positively, though I believe it to be so." ^
" Amongst the Melville Islanders the totemic system is
somewhat different from that of any tribes on the mainland.
The word for totem is Pukui. If you say to a man, Inta
ananunga pukui, he will reply, Ingaga, which means white
cockatoo, Irrungabi, crocodile, or whatever may be the name
of his totem. On the other hand, there is a special name
applied to the members of the various totemic groups which
is quite distinct from that of the totemic animal or plant.
These curious double names are as follows :
—
(i) Crocodile ....
12 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA HK. I
indicated by the numbers (i), (2), and (3). These are re-
garded respectively as being what is called amandinni, that
is, mates. Crocodile and mullet are mates ;
turtle and rain ;
wild dog and wood. The members of groups that are
amandinni are supposed to belong to the same '
skin,' or
pukni, and may not intermarry. Any man can marry any
woman, provided she does not belong to his piikui.
" Alligator and mullet marry cockatoo, blood wood, sea
bird, turtle, wild dog, wood, Pandanus, rain.
" Wild dog and wood marry crocodile, cockatoo, blood
wood, sea bird, turtle, mullet, Pandanus, rain.
" Turtle and rain marry crocodile, cockatoo, blood wood,
sea bird, wild dog, wood, mullet, Pandanus.
" Cockatoo, blood wood, sea bird, and Pandanus have no
amandinni and so may marry anyone save a member of
their own totemic group.
" The descent of the totem is strictly in the mother's line.
" There is something very abnormal about the Iwaidja
tribe at Port Essington,^ which is evidently closely allied, in
some respects, to the Melville Islanders. As in the latter
there are local groups. My information was gained, with
the assistance of Mr. R. J. Cooper, from Port Essington
natives who knew their own and the Melville Island systems.
There are three divisions in the tribe, with totemic groups
attached to each. These three divisions again refer to local
groups, as do those on Melville Island and also those amongst
the Kakadu tribe, ^ to which, in other points, the Iwaidja
natives are closely allied. Their names and the totemic
groups associated with them are as follows :
—
Group i : Munbulkitj
Barramunda
Barramunda men
Goanna (lizard) .
Goanna man
Crocodile .
Crocodile man
Mullet
Mullet man
Mangauuli
Munbulkitj
Wallwarra
Maiyak
Meirdneiai
Munbulkitj
Ngurilliak
Maiyak
^ Port Essington is a town on the ^ As to Kakadu tribe, see below,
coast of the Northern Territory nearly pp. 21 sqq.
opposite to Melville Island,
CH. II MELVILLE AND BATHURST ISLANDS 13
Group 2 : Manjerojelli
Wild dog .
Wild dog man
Wood
Wood man
Lang
Allaquallurut
Allmara
Manjerojelli
Group 3 : Manjerowuli
Jungle fowl
Jungle fowl man
Turtle
Turtle man
Rain
Rain man .
Blood wood tree
Blood wood tree
Shark
Shark man
Sea bird
Sea bird man
Cockatoo .
Cockatoo man
Urgurgi
Manjerowuli
Manbirri
Manjerowuli
Wailmat
Manjerowuli
Wubuin
Imma-wubuin
Wanba
Manjerowuli
Odjurn
Allakwulwurjuring
Allallak
Manjerimaringait
" It will be seen that, as in the Melville Island system,
the totemic animal or plant has one name, the member of
the group another. The Iwaidja word for totem is Wailar.
" Members of the Munbulkitj and Manjerojelli groups
marry those of Manjerowuli, and vice versa. It will be
noticed that in each case individuals belonging to certain
totemic groups carry as their totemic name, if it can be called
so, that of one of the local tribal divisions, Munbulkitj,
Manjerojelli, or Manjerowuli. For example, Barramunda
men are called Munbulkitj, wood men are called Manjero-
jelli, and turtle men are called Manjerowuli. The natives
were quite clear on this point.
" The descent of the totem is in the female line. One of
our informants was a cockatoo man, his mother was cockatoo
and his father crocodile. His mother's brother was also
cockatoo, and is married to a crocodile woman. They have
a daughter who is crocodile and has been promised as wife,
by her father, to the first-named cockatoo man. In this
case the mother of the man and her brother have the same
father but not the same mother. Another of our informants
14 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA BK. I
was a cockatoo man, his mother was cockatoo and his father
a wood man." ^
Subsequently to Sir Baldwin Spencer's investigations the
social and totemic organisation of the Melville and Bathurst
Islanders was examined by Mr. C. W. M. Hart, as a Science
Research Scholar of the University of Sydney, with the aid
of a grant from the Australian National Research Council.
It confirms, supplements, and on one point at least claims
to correct Spencer's account. For the sake of comparison
I subjoin it in full.
" The Tiwi have a system of matrilineal totemic clans.
Each clan has a special relation to one or sometimes to two
and in two instances to three species of natural objects. The
members of the clan have a solidarity of their own, helping
each other in tribal fights, speaking of each other as '
brother
'
despite the variation in their actual blood relationship, and
not marrying w^omen of their own totem. There are, how-
ever, few of the distinctive features of Australian totemism
as known from other parts of the continent. They eat their
totem without any restriction ; they have no ceremonies for
the increase of the totem species.
" Since the totem of a child is that of its mother it follows
that the members of one totemic clan are found in different
hordes, and inversely each horde contains persons of several
totemic clans. Nevertheless each totem is associated in the
minds of the native with a particular locality or district.
This association appears in the myths, there being a number
of stories which connect particular natural species with parti-
cular localities. Thus each clan may be said to have its
ancestral home or centre, but there is little or nothing of any
feeling of reverence or ritual attachment to the home of one's
totem. Taking it all in all Tiwi totemism does not amount
to very much compared with the elaborate forms of totemism
found in other parts of Australia.
" The word for totem and totemic clan is pukni. But
the same word means also '
sun '
and in addition '
breath.'
The connection between these three concepts denoted by one
word is not at all apparent.
^ B. Spencer, Native Tribes of the Northern Territory of Australia, pp.
200-203.
MELVILLE AND BATHURST ISLANDS 15
" The totems are grouped into three phratries. The term
phratry is here used in the sense of an exogamous group
containing a number of clans and not being a inoiety. The
phratries are unnamed. Should a man want to mention a
phratry he will call it by the name of one of the totemic clans
composing it. He will generally use the name of his own
totem clan if his own phratry is in question, or that of the
clan that is powerful in the phratry. Thus the phratry that
I am calling Phratry i, will more often be called Tjilarui
than anything else, because at the present time the Tjilarui
clan is very numerous and many of them are the kind of
people who are usually much in the public eye. For a similar
reason Phratry 2 is more often called Timiririnui than any-
thing else, and Phratry 3 is usually Tokwombui. There is a
much stronger feeling of solidarity with one's clan than with
one's phratry, which will perhaps explain that while the clan
name is very important there seems no need, or much less
need, for any specific name for the phratry."
A complete list of the clans and their totems is given
below.
Clan Name
1
6
rOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. i
Clan 1
CH. II MELVILLE AND BATHURST ISLANDS 17
Udnnui and Priniandua since it is at this place, a district
in Bathurst Island, that Munutuni, the father of all crocodiles,
still has his home. Another old man decided upon mandu-
baui as his piikui because his favourite camping ground was
at Pripanyiinili, which has a mythological association with
mandtibuka (the sand-fly), such association being founded no
doubt on the fact that sand-flies breed in great numbers in
the mangrove swamps of that region.
" The AriT^givila (the stone totem) are closely associated
with a famous rock in Miv^gu called Wuriikwompi which,
due no doubt to a hollow interior, gives forth a roll like thunder
when beaten with a stick and hence is a sacred object to the
natives. The former home of the Ariv^gwila is in the vicinity
of this rock, so the legend runs, and they are often called the
Wurukwonip ila
.
" The Timir/r/r)ui are said to have come originally from
a small island off the coast of Wrar^gu where the timiririr^a
(woolly-butt tree) is especially prolific due to the fact that it
was here that Prondupu, the original mythological woolly-
butt, settled after the battle at Tax)io between the animal-
men.
" So the story goes on throughout the list of totems. It
is not a myth properly so called since mythological figures
are in it only incidentally. As told by the Tiwi it is a rational-
ised explanation on a basis of local geography and the
desires of old men generations ago.
" The clans vary greatly in size. The largest clan,
Mierdiii, numbers 132 persons, whereas the Paroliu^ibila has
only six and the Taparui only two." ^
With regard to personal names amongst the Tiwi, we are
told by Mr. Hart :
" Every member of the Tiwi has not one
name but many, each of which belongs to him or her alone and
each having an equal validity as a term of address or of
description, though naturally some are used more frequently
than others. That is to say, although a man with five
different names may be addressed or referred to by any one
of those five names, nevertheless the normal thing is for one
name to be much more generally used than any of the others,
1 C. W. M. Hart, " The Tiwi of Oceania, vol. i. No. 2 (July 1930), pp.
Melville and Bathurst Islands," 170-180.
c
1
8
TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
it being for a native, as for us, much easier to think of a
person by a single name than by several.
" The multiplicity of names is accounted for by the fact
that quite a number of the relatives have the right to bestow
names upon a new-born child and a certain proportion of
them will always exercise that right. The father may
always bestow names upon his own children, and the father's
brothers, who are of course the classificatory fathers of the
child, have the same power. The mother's brothers may also
bestow names upon a child, should they so desire, and less
frequently children will be found bearing names given to
them by the older men of their own totem clan, that is not only
the mother's brothers but also other relatives of the mother,
such as the mother's mother's brother. The Tiwi have
matrilineal totemic clans.
" Names are seldom bestowed upon an individual by
women ; the only female relative having that power is the
actual mother's mother. A mother is never in any circum-
stances allowed to name her own child. The reason for this
is fairly obvious. The naming of children is a ritual affair,
and as such is more or less forbidden to the women, for
although their exclusion is not nearly so strict as in some other
parts of Australia, they do not, among the Tiwi, take very
much part in ritual affairs. The mother's mother, however,
stands in a rather privileged position to her daughter's child.
She is of the same totem and is normally a very old woman,
and to a certain extent appears to become a symbol of the clan
for her daughter's son. A boy, for example, will strongly
resent and often endeavour to revenge any insult to his
mother's mother, even if it means taking up arms against his
own father. For example, during my stay a boy of twelve
abused his father and quitted his father's camp for over a
month because in a fight between hordes his father had injured
the boy's mother's mother's brother. There was no particular
respect or regard for the latter individual on the part of the
boy, but the injury was a grave insult to his mother's mother.
" It must also be understood that it is impossible for
any two people to have the same name. Should a father
inadvertently bestow upon his child a name already in use
he is guilty of a gross breach of etiquette, and to prevent
CH. II MELVILLE AND BATHURST ISLANDS 19
such a possibility a nian will refrain for a long time from
coining a name until he is fairly certain that the one he decides
upon is neither already in use nor was held by any person
recently dead. Although the Tiwi number nearly eleven
hundred people at the present time, and each one of these
has on an average three names, a careful study of these three
thousand three hundred names fails to reveal any two as
being identical.
" By the time that a child reaches puberty he is the
possessor of several names, since by then some at least of the
people entitled to bestow names upon him will have exercised
that privilege. In exceptional cases he may have six or
seven names though sometimes only one. All of these will
have been known at some time or other to the tribe at large,
though it is usually possible to get a full list of a person's
names only from that individual himself or his father or
mother.
"It is not at all unusual in primitive societies for the
death of a man to render his name tabu. This is the case
among the Tiwi. All the names of a dead man become
strictly pukimani (=tabu) immediately upon his death.
Any one in the tribe who uses a name of a dead person at any
time for years after his death, but especially in the period
—
usually about five to six months—that always elapses between
the death and the funeral corroboree, violates one of the
strictest social sanctions the tribe possesses. And this
prohibition extends to all words in the ordinary language—
though curiously enough not in the sacred language—which
bear any resemblance in sound to any of the names of the
dead man. It applies equally to English names in use by
the tribe with resemblances j:o native or English words and
to native words which resemble either English or native
words. Thus a boy named Tipuki having died '
tobacco,'
*
baccy,' Tiparkitimiri all equally became pukimani. Simi-
larly when Mulankina, one of the Mandeimbula horde, died,
?Hniikina, one of the commones:: words in the language,
meaning '
plenty,' '
full,' '
enough,' was dropped completely
from the language.
" Nor does the pukimani stop there. Not only is the use
of any of the names of the dead man prohibited, but there is
20 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA B K . I
an equally strong rule against the use of any of the personal
names he has bestowed upon other people, be they his own
children or children of others. A young child may only have
one name, that given him by his father, but should his father
die he must become nameless until he gets a new name from
somewhere. This aspect of the pukiwani does not extend
to similar words in either the ordinary or the sacred language,
" The fact that death renders sacred all the concepts
closely associated with the dead man does no doubt play a
large part in causing the tabu on names he has bestowed
upon other people. There is, I think, another factor which
is even more important in the causation of this particular
tabu. When a man marries a widow he becomes to the
tribe not the foster father of her children but the actual
father. It cannot be pointed out too often that the Australian
blackfellow does not distinguish physiological and social
fatherhood. The new husband is married to the widow, he
therefore must be the father of her children. Her children
change their position in the tribe, and the function of the
changing of their names is to show this change and the new
social relationships that have been imposed upon them by it.
It will be remembered in this connection that the husband
changes the names of all the woman's children whether of
her last husband or not, and also that words in either the
sacred or the ordinary language which are similar in sound
to the former names of the children do not become tabu.
That is, it is a social not a sacred change of name." ^
1 C. W. M. Hart, " Personal vol. i. No. 3 (Oct. -Dec. 1930). pp.
Names among the Tiwi," in Oceania, 280-289.
CHAPTER III
TOTEMISM OF THE KAKADU AND OTHER TRIBES OF THE
NORTHERN TERRITORY
The totemic systems of the Kakadu and other tribes of the
Northern Territory, together with the native legends of their
mythical foundation, have been described by Sir Baldwin
Spencer, from his personal researches and observations. He
was resident in the Territory from December 1911 to Dec-
ember 191 2, in the official capacity of Special Commissioner
for the Aboriginals and Chief Protector in charge of the
Department that the Government had instituted to safeguard
the interests of the aboriginal population. His account
runs as follows :
—
" Being so accustomed to tribes like the Arunta in which
there is a very definite class organisation,^ it was very per-
plexing to find that apparently the Kakadu had no such
system. Every individual belonged to a local group and
had his or her totem name, but there was no such thing as
any sections in the tribe corresponding to the Panunga,
Purula, etc., of the Arunta. Whilst talking about old
ancestors we met with a tradition relating to the far-past
times during which a very celebrated ancestor lived, and this
gave us a clue to the matter. The tradition, which seems to
be common to the Kakadu and all the tribes now occupying
the Coburg Peninsula and the country drained by the
Alligator Rivers, is a very lengthy and detailed one, but it
shows very clearly the ideas of the natives in regard to the
^ By class organisation Spencer sections. The change of nomencla-
means the division of a tribe into exo- tures has already been indicated,
gamous moieties, sections, and sub- See above, p. 5.
22 TOTEMISM IN A USTEA LIA BK. I
origin of the members and different sections of the tribe and
reveals a belief in reincarnation which is spread far and wide
over Australia. I give an outline of what we found out
during these days, because it shows how carefully the natives
think these things out for themselves.
" A man named Wuraka came away from the west,
walking through the sea. His feet were on the bottom, but
he was so tall that his head was well over the water. He
landed at a place called Allukuladi, between two hills now
known as Mts. Bidwell and Roe, both of which he made, and
so on to Aruwurkwain. A woman named Imberombera
came from the north, landed at what is now called Malay
Bay and travelled south, till she met Wuraka at Aruwurkwain
and asked him, '
Where are you going ? '
He replied, '
I
am going straight through the bush to the rising sun.' At
that time they both spoke the Iwaidja language and there
were no blackfellows. Imberombera wanted Wuraka to
come with her, but he was very tired, so he sat down where he
was, and a great rock, called by the natives Wuraka and by
the whites Tor Rock, arose to mark the spot. Imberombera
went on alone. She was of huge size and carried many
children in her body, and wore a bamboo ring on her head
from which numbers of dilly-bags hung down, full of yams.
At two places, called Marpur and Muruni, she left boy and
girl spirit children, telling them to speak Iwaidja. She also
planted many yams and said, '
Mungatidda jam,^ these are
good to eat. Then she went on to Mamul, on what is now
Cooper's Creek, to the north of the East Alligator River,
leaving children here and telling them to speak the Umoriu
language. The only food supply she left them were Cyperus
bulbs. After this she stopped at different places, opening
her dilly-bags, throwing out yams broadcast and sent spirit
children to ten different parts, telling them, as she did so, to
speak different languages, in each case instructing them as
follows :
—
(i) Gnaruk ngeinyimma tjikaru, gnoro Koranger.
(2) Watta ngeinyimma tjikaru, gnoro Kumboyo.
(3) Kakadu ngeinyimma tjikaru, gnoro Munganillida.
(4) Witji ngeinyimma tjikaru, gnoro Miortu.
(5) Puneitja ngeinyimma tjikaru, gnoro Jaijipali.
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 23
(6) Koarnbut ngeinyimma tjikaru, gnoro Kapalgo.
(7) Ngorbur ngeinyimma tjikaru, gnoro Illari.
(8) Umbugwalur ngeinyimma tjikaru, gnoro Owe.
(9) Djowei ngeinyimma tjikaru, gnoro Nauillanja.
(10) Geimbo ngeinyimma tjikaru, gnoro Waimbi.
" The first word of each of these is the language the
children were to speak ; ngeinyimma means you or yours,
tjikaru is talk or language, gnoro is go, and the last word is
the name of the place to which she sent them. It is difficult
to feel quite sure whether these are the names of the tribes or
of local groups, but each place is now the central ground of
the group or tribe named.
" She came at last to Jaijipali, in Kakadu country,
searched around for a good camping-place and, at first, sat
down in a water-pool, but the leeches came in numbers and
fastened on her, so she decided to camp on dry land, saying
that she would go into the bush. Accordingly she did so and
camped at Ibinjairi, where she became the great progenitor
of the Kakadu people. While walking over the country she
made creeks, hills, animals and plants, in fact she was
responsible originally for everything. She had already, as
described above, sent out large numbers of spirit children to
various places and, later on, all of them entered women who,
in their turn, were sent to the same places later on.
" I am using the term spirit-children as the equivalent of
the Kakadu word Iwaiyu and the Arunta Kuruna. Each
is what we should call the soul or simply the spirit of the
individual, but the native regards it as something perhaps a
little more concrete and definite than what we figure to our-
selves as a soul. The essential feature of the Iwaiyu or
spirit-child belief of the Kakadu, and the Kuruna of the
Arunta, is that it is, definitely, something concrete ; every
individual possesses one ; it may, at times, leave the body
either temporarily or, as at death, permanently ; when it
leaves the body at death it can, at will, enter a woman and so
give rise to a new individual who is the reincarnation of the
ancestor because it contains his unchanging Iwaiyu or
Kuruna.
" From Ibinjaira, Imberombera sent out five pairs of men
and women. The tradition, so far as I could find out, says
24 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA BK. I
nothing about these, either as to their relationship to one
another or to their totems. Imberombera herself had no
totem, but she is regarded as having instituted them all and
given a totemic name to each of the spirit children that she
deposited in different places. She is essentially the equivalent
of the great Numbakulla amongst the Arunta, except that
she is a woman. Starting from Imberombera, the succession
of events, so far as the production of offspring is concerned,
may be represented as follows :
—
(i) Imberombera carrying large numbers of spirit children.
(2) Spirit children deposited by her before she got into the Kakadu
country to give rise to
(a) Iwaidja people ;
{b) Umoriu people.
(3) Spirit children sent out by her during her wanderings before
she came into Kakadu country, to give rise, later on, to ten different
tribes ^r groups, as named in the table already given.
(4) Spirit children sent out by her from her camp at Ibinjaira to
different parts of the Kakadu country.
(5) Five pairs of individuals, men and women, also carrying spirit
children, sent out by her from Ibinjaira, her camping place in Kakadu
country, to various places in the latter.
(6) Five pairs of individuals, men and women, sent out again by
each of the pairs in No. 5 to various places in Kakadu country, giving
twenty-five places in all.
" All the spirit children (included in Nos. (4) and (5))
originally sent out by Imberombera to various places entered
into women of these twenty-five pairs and gave rise to the men
and women who now form the different local groups into
which the tribe is divided.
" It will be seen that Imberombera was responsible for
everything, just as in the Arunta legend Numbakulla was ;
she gave every spirit individual his or her totemic name,
furnished all food supplies, gave to the five pairs (No. (5))
whom she sent out from Ibinjaira everything that they needed
and full instructions as to where they were to go, telling them
all about the Jereipunga, or totems, and ordered them to
give these to the different spirit children. A peculiar feature
of all the original lots of spirit children sent out is that they
contained individuals of different totems, so that there is no
special gathering together of men and women of the same
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 25
name, such as emus and kangaroos, in any one locality in the
way characteristic of the Arunta.
" The only thing that I could find out, that governed
marriage at the present day, was that a man of one group
had to marry a woman from another group, but it did not
matter what his totem was, nor was there any descent of the
totem from either father or mother to son or daughter." ^
" There is considerable variation amongst the different
tribes inhabiting the Northern Territory in regard to their
totemic systems. In some tribes, such as the Waduman and
Mudburra, the totemic name is transmitted in the maternal
line ;
in others, such as the Worgait and Djauan, in the
paternal line.
" In some, the totemic groups are divided between the
moieties, in others, such as the Djauan and Mungarai, they
are divided between the classes or sub-classes,^ so that the
child cannot possibly inherit either its father's or its mother's
totem.
" In some, such as the Waduman and Mudburra, there
is no division of the totem groups between the moieties or
classes, the same group occurring on both sides of the tribe,
but the totemic groups are exogamous, and the totem de-
scends in the female line. In others, moieties and classes
do not exist, and in these there is no descent of the totem
from parent to child, the latter receiving his totemic name in
consequence of an intimation conveyed by a spirit individual
to the parent.
" In all tribes, however, there is a very definite totemic
system, which may or may not regulate marriage.
" In most tribes the totemic groups are exogamous, but
in some, such as the Kakadu, they are not, though it is very
rare to find a man married to a woman of the same totemic
group as himself. Such a marriage, however, in the Kakadu
and allied tribes would be quite allowable.
" Amongst these more northern tribes we may dis-
tinguish five main groups so far as totemic matters are
concerned :
—
^ Baldwin Spencer, Wanderings in as the four sections and eight sub-
JVild Australia, \\. ']e)2-'j ^6. sections of an AustraHan tribe. See
^ By these terms Spencer desig- above, p. 5.
nates what are now gerierally known
26 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
" (i) A group represented by the Larakia, Worgait, and
Wulwullam, in which the totem groups are divided between
the two moieties ;
they are strictly exogamic and descent is
counted in the male line.
" (2) A well-marked group of tribes including the Djauan,
Mungarai, Warrai, Yungman, Mara, and Nullakan, in which
the totem groups are divided between the classes or sub-
classes so that a child passes into a totemic group belonging
to the same side of the tribe to which his father belongs, but
of necessity different in name from his father's, because
different totemic groups are attached to different classes or
sub-classes.
"
(3) A well-marked group of tribes, including the Wadu-
man, Mudburra, Ngainman, and Billianera, in which the
same totemic groups are found on both sides of the tribe,
and in which the descent of the totem is in the female line.
The totemic groups are strictly exogamous.
"
(4) Abnormal and modified coastal and island tribes,
such as those on Melville Island and the Iwaidji, in which
there are no moieties or classes, but in which there are local
groups and in which certain restrictions with regard to
marriage exist in connection with the totemic groups. The
descent of the totem is in the female line.
"
(5) Abnormal and evidently modified coastal tribes,
such as the Kakadu and allied tribes, in which no moieties
or classes are present, and in which the totem descends in
neither the female nor the male line.
" In at all events many of the tribes, such as the Kakadu,
Waduman and Mudburra, the men perform ceremonies that
are the equivalent of the Intichiuma in the Arunta, and
have for their object the increase of the totemic animal or
plant.
" The Kakadu group of tribes is evidently much modified
in many ways, and in none more so than in regard to their
totemic system. The question of totems is closely bound up
with their beliefs in regard to the origin of children. As
described in connection with this subject, when an individual
dies his spirit part remains with his bones in the form of what
is called a Yalmuru. This, again, gives rise to a double of
itself, called an Iwaiyu, which the Yalmuru places in some
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 27
food, such as a sugar-bag or fish, that the father of the future
child then secures ;
aided by the Yalmuru in doing so. This
food will be the totem of the future child. The Iwaiyu
jumps out of the food before the man secures the latter, and
rejoins the Yalmuru. Finally, in the form of a small frog,
called Purnumanemo, it goes into its mother. The Yalmuru,
at night time, comes to the father while he is asleep in his
camp and tells him the name of the child and its totem.
Originally, in the far past times, each individual had his
totem, or Jereipunga, given to him by the great ancestor of
the tribe named Imberombera, or by men and women sent
out by and acting under her instructions. At each re-
incarnation the Yalmuru decides upon the Jereipunga, which
may or may not be the same as that to which it belonged
during a previous reincarnation. It has no reference of
necessity to that of either the father or mother, nor is it con-
cerned in any way with the marriage system. In the Kakadu
tribe, indeed, there is no idea of heredity of the totemic name
in either the male or female line. A few examples of actual
families living in the Kakadu camp, while I was staying at
Oenpelli, their central camping ground, will serve to illustrate
this matter.
" (i) A man named Ungara whose totem is Kimberikara
(Barramunda, a fish) ; his wife, Obaiya, is Mormo, sugar-
bag. They have two children, Monmuna a boy, who is
Kunbaritja, a small fish, and Murawillawill, whose totem is
Erbinjori, crocodile. The totem of Ungara's father was
Kunbaritja, and that of his mother Mormo.
" (2) A man named Mukalakki whose totem is Mormo.
That of one wife, named Mitjunga, is Kunaitja, mullet ; that
of another, named Numerialmak, is Kulekuli. His father,
named Monmuna, was Kimberikara, his mother, named
Kumbainba, was Eribinjori, a crocodile ; his brother was
Murno, opossum ;
the mother of Monmuna was Kintjilbara,
a snake, his wife's mother was Kulekuli, cat-fish,
"
(3) A man named Miniamaka, whose totem is Jameru,
a small fish ;
his wife named Murrapurnminni, is Kulekuli,
cat-fish ;
a son, called Naminjeya, is Kimberikara. His
father and mother were both Kimberikara.
"
(4) A man named Mitjeralak whose totem is Kalerun-
28 rOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
gcni, flying-fox ;
his father, named Mitiunga, is Jameru, a
small fish ;
his father's father was Eribinjori, crocodile.
"
(5) A man named Kopereik whose totem is Kunaitja,
mullet ; his father is Kimberikara.
" (6) A man named Oogutjali whose totem is Kunbaritja,
a fish ;
his wife, named Belgramma. is Narenma, a snake ;
a son, called Tjurabego, is Eribinjori, crocodile ; a daughter,
called Mikgeirne, is Kulekuli, cat-fish ; a daughter, named
Mirowargo, is Kalerungeni, flying-fox ; a daughter, named
Minagi, is also Kalerungeni, and another, called Mukarula,
is Mormo, sugar-bag.
" It will be seen from these examples that there is a
complete and most perplexing mixing up of the totems, so
far as anything like descent of the totemic name is con-
cerned. They have nothing whatever to do with regulating
marriage, nor are they hereditary in either the paternal or
maternal line. Further still, there is no attempt made for
each individual to retain the totem of the old ancestor of
whom he is supposed to be the reincarnation. In the case
of the above-named individuals there is actually only one
—
the woman Mitiunga—in which the living person has the
same totem as the old ancestor of whom he, or she, is sup-
posed to be the reincarnation. In regard to their totemic
system, the group of tribes that have the Imberombera legend,
or its equivalent, appear to stand by themselves. In some
respects, as, for example, in regard to the idea of definite
local centres, people by spirit individuals, they call to mind
the Arunta, but, on the other hand, they differ from them
and from all others in the remarkable way in which each
centre is the home of a definite group of individuals, the
actual names of all of whom are known and handed down
from generation to generation.
" The following is a list of the totemic groups in the
Kakadu tribe. It is quite possible that there may be more
than these, but they will, at all events, serve to indicate their
nature in this tribe which may be taken as representative of
the northern coastal tribes generally. The latter inhabit the
well-watered country, where food is abundant, that lies be-
tween the Ranges and the sea. It will be noticed that, in
every case, the totemic animal or plant is edible :
—
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 29
Alberjiji, Whistling Duck
Banjil, a Fish
Baralil, a Fish
Biaka, a Wallaby
Boinmun, a Rat
Briitpenniweir, Jabiru
Eribinjori, Crocodile
Erlaungerla, Echidna
Eyenbiunbo, Fish- Hawk
Giinutyiaratnila, a Yam
Jailba, Sugar-bag
Jeluabi, a non-venomous Snake
Jeruober, Old-man Kangaroo
Jinieribunna, Nativ-e Companion
Ji7)i7}iidaHappa, a small Fish
Kaleiyii, White Cockatoo
Kalerungetii, Flying-Fox
Karakera, Spur-winged Plover
Ki»iberikara, Barramunda (a Fish)
Kintjilbara, a Carpet Snake
Kopereipi, Emu
Korunokadjn, W^ild Dog
Kudbaiiu, a Fish
Kiidjalinga, Turtle
Kulabaga, Pied Egret
Kulawura, Jungle Fowl
Kiilekuli, Cat- Fish
Kidijidbo, a Yam
Kiiljoanjo, a non-venomous Snake
Kitlori, a Yam
Kunaitja, Mullet
Kunbaritja, a small Fish
KiDijeatiia, a '
Plum '
Kupi/lapidi, White Crane
Kurnenibo, Goose
Mangortji, wedge-tailed Eagle
Marabornji, brush-tailed Wallaby
Miniiorko, Bandicoot
Mimzveluda-uda, Blue Mt. Para-
keet
Minjiweya, a Yam
Mirhvidjonga, Quail
Mitjiborla, a Wallaby
Moain, a small Fish
Mormo, Sugar-bag
Alormim, a Yam
Mudburraburra, native Cat
Mudebenbo, native Turkey
Mungalatna, Lily Seed
Munmarwer, a Snake
Murarowa, a Cypress Bulb
Miirkailpn, Sugar- bag
Murlappa, a Yam
Murmorlpa, a Rat
Murno, Opossum, M.
Murora, a small Wallaby
Nabapungeni, Black Kangaroo
Narenma, a Snake
Ngabadaua, a Snake
Ngulaner, a Fish
Nguloa, a Fish
Nionberanerji, a Snake
Ni{ppadaitba, a Fish
Padauitja, a Sugar-bag
Parijiliji, Lily root
Pitjordu, Lizard
Puneri, a Lizard
Putatnunga, Water Lizard
Tiradjuno, a Water Snake
Tjailba, Sugar-bag
Tjajtieru, a small Fish
Tjikali, Wood Grub
Tjilaka, Jew Fish
I'jimidaba, a long-nosed Fish
Tjinangu, a Sugar-bag
Tjiinara, a Yam
Tjungoan, a Snake
Ulloa, a Fish
Unari, a Lizard
Worki, a Lily Root
Wiiridjonga, Lily Seed and Roots
Yidabiirabara, a Snake
Yinganga, small Crocodile
" Whilst investigating the initiation ceremonies in this
tribe with Mr. Cahill, I came across a very interesting part
of the final initiation ceremony that is called Muraian. This
consisted in showing the older men certain very sacred sticks
and stones intimately associated with the totems. They are
30 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA rk. i
as intensely kumali as are the churinga of the Arunta, and
the natives when showing them to us and performing the
ceremony took most elaborate precautions to prevent any
women from having the slightest chance to see what was
being done. Each stone or stick was wrapped up in sheet
after sheet of paper bark.
" The first that we saw, and we came upon it by mere
accident, was a small stone called Iwaija Kopereipi, or Emu
6g&- It measured about four inches in length by two and
a half in diameter. It was sufficiently like an egg in shape as
to suggest its name. ... Its history was as follows : Long
ago, for the ^^^ has now passed through the hands of nine
old men, one after the other, an old ancestor named Nauundel,
was out in the bush, searching for sugar-bag, when he heard
a curious hissing noise. He looked round and, in the dis-
tance, saw an ^^^ and a snake coiled round it. It was the
hissing of the snake that Nauundel heard. The snake was
one now called Kintjilbara. Nauundel came close up, got
a stick and began to poke the snake, which, by and by,
went away. He did not attempt to injure it. The ^<g^
stood up on end and Nauundel lifted it from the ground and
tied it up in paper bark. Then he cut some grass, laid it in
his bag and put the ^^^, wrapped in paper bark, upon it,
saying, Gehnbi kala muraian ; ngainma kala, kulapunna
nialeiappa, which means, '
This is a Muraian stone all right ;
it is mine all right, I put it in my bag.' All night he heard
the ^'g^ saying Prr, Prr, as it moved about restlessly inside
the paper bark. It moved about so much that it tossed all
the grass out of the bag and, as it would not keep still, and
Nauundel was afraid of losing it, he placed the mouth of the
bag near the fire and stupefied the egg with the heat and
smoke.
" Only Murabulba, that is, very old men, are allowed to
see the egg. When its present possessor, a man named
Narlinda, wishes to show it during the progress of the
Muraian ceremonies, he says to the younger men . . .
'
Food, go, all of you '—in other words, all of you go out into
the bush and collect food. The young men know what he
means, or, rather, that there is something that they must
not see, and away they go. He says nothing to the other
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 31
men, but, as Narlinda told us, they know what he means
and nudge one another. When the young men are far away,
Narhnda sits down by himself, a little distance away from
the old men, unwraps the paper bark, and calls the others up.
They come with their heads bent down. Narlinda tells them
to come near and not be frightened because it will not
'
growl,' that is, it will not be angry with them or do them
any harni.
" When they are going to hold these special ceremonies
there may be only one or two, or several, of these sacred
objects brought on to the ceremonial ground, which is most
carefully placed and, if necessary, as in the one we saw,
closed in with bushes. At one of these ceremonies, after
the men have brought in their sacred sticks and stones, each
one being in the charge of some special individual, they are
placed on the ground to one side of the enclosed space. If
there are any men present who have not seen them before,
but are judged to be old enough to do so, an old man, such
as Narlinda, says, '
Look, these are Muraian, do not quarrel
or, by and by, all your fingers will swell up.' The per-
formance itself is a very curious one and the men become
very excited. . . . When we saw it enacted, two of the men
stood to one side, one clanging sticks, the other clapping
his hands. First of all a stick representing a fish, called
Jimidauappa, was brought in by a man to whom it belonged.
Followed by the other men, he came from behind some
bushes, creeping along with the sticks in his hands. On the
ground he stood in the middle, all the other men circling
round and round him, while he pointed the stick at each of
them. At first they sang the words
—
Ka kai ka ka le
Ka lulla le,
and, after dancing for some time, they all extended their
arms towards the stick, time after time, drawing them back
rapidly and yelling, Brau, brau, which means, '
Give, give.'
They were supposed to be demanding a plentiful supply of
the fish Jimidauappa.
Finally, the man fixed the stick upriglit in the ground
and they all danced round and round, pretending to rub
32 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA BK. I
their hands up and down it, after which they rubbed them-
selves. Then they retired behind the bushes. After a short
time they came on again, this time bringing several sticks
and, in addition, rushing round the other men who stood to
one side. One after another the sticks were fixed upright in
the ground until there were some twenty or inore sticks and
stones there. At one stage, when only a few had been brought
in, a special one—the Muraian itself—was produced. The
man carrying it tumbled down on the ground and was fol-
lowed by the others and they all wriggled and rolled about
in the most grotesque fashion. The Muraian was in the form
of a slightly curved slab of wood, with the representation of
a head at one end, a very short tail at the other, and two
little projections at each side, representing limbs. It was
supposed to be a turtle, to which it certainly showed a con-
siderable resemblance, quite enough to be recognisable, and
the rolling about of the men was supposed to be an imitation
of the movements of the animal itself.
" When all the sticks and stones, many of them elaborately
decorated, some representing yams with strings of gaily
coloured cockatoo feathers wound round them, had been
brought on to the ground, they were arranged in a circle
and the men danced round and round them with their arms
alternately extended and drawn back, while they yelled, Brau
brati, that is, '
Give, give.' It was, as the natives told us, a
request, in fact, a demand, to the sacred representatives of
the various animals and plants to provide them with these
same animals and plants that form their food supply.
" Amongst the native tribes of Central Australia I have
seen what Mr. Gillen and myself have called the Intichiuma
ceremonies. These are performed by the men of different
totemic groups, with the idea of increasing the number of the
animals and plants with which the ceremonies are concerned,
but, in the Central tribes, it is only the men of any one totemic
group who perform the ceremony associated with it, and there
is no such thing as any definite request or demand. The
mere performance of the ceremony is supposed to bring about
the desired result. In the Kakadu tribe, and the same is
true of other tribes associated with it, the members of different
totemic groups join together and, though it is difficult to
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 33
express, accurately, the difference between the two forms of
ceremonies, both of which have the same object in view,
that is, the increase of the food supply, it may be said that
the Central tribes do not make anything in the way of a
personal appeal to any object which is supposed to represent
an animal or plant, whereas, amongst the Kakadu, this is
most evident. The men of the latter tribe very clearly showed,
by their insistent and fierce cry of Brau, bran, '
Give, give,'
that they were directly asking, even demanding, the repre-
sentatives of the various animals and plants to provide them
with food. Amongst the many ceremonies of this kind that
I have seen performed by Australian aboriginals, none have
impressed me more than these, as indicating that savage man
believes that he is able to control his food supply by means of
magic. The way in which the men danced round the cere-
monial objects, or rolled over on the ground holding them
in their hands, was most suggestive of the idea that, by
doing so, they brought about some close connection between
themselves and the totemic animals or plants represented by
the sacred sticks and stones. All that the men could tell us
was that their old ancestors had always perforined these
ceremonies and that, after they had done so, the animals and
plants had always multiplied.
" Altogether we saw about seventy of these sacred stones
and sticks which, above all things possessed by the Kakadu
and surrounding tribes, are pre-eminently Kumali or sacred.
They brought just a few at a time to show us, taking the
most elaborate precautions lest any woman or child, or even
any young man, was in sight. Before they brought them in,
they halted under the shelter of bushes and reconnoitred the
place to make quite sure that they were safe and that no
women were within sight. When a man saw us he would
put a finger up to his nose, the sign that they had something
Kumali. Then, when they were satisfied that everything
was secure, they brought them in, wrapped up in fold after
fold of paper bark. Whilst showing them to us they only
spoke in whispers and, so real was it to them, that we, with-
out thinking about it, felt compelled to do the same.
" They told us that the first of these Muraian objects was
found, very long ago, by an old ancestor called Kulbaran.
D
34 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
He saw something strange in the form of a turtle moving
about in the water, caught it and discovered that it was
Muraian, or rather the turtle told him so. The turtle then
described the ceremonies and taught Kulbaran how to per-
form them and how to make the sacred sticks and stones.
He told Kulbaran that they were all kuniali widjeru, that is
very sacred or kumali. He also told him that the old men
might eat the Muraian animals but that the young men must
not do so. . . .
" Kulbaran, when first he saw the Muraian, said,
Ngeinyininia ameina? which means, '
What is your name ?
'
or '
Who are you ? '
The Muraian replied, Ngainma
Muraian, '
I am Muraian '
; Ngainma jerapo 7nubilabilla
balera, '
I dance corroboree later on,' and then he danced,
lifting up his legs and arms and singing, Yai, Yai, as he
did so. The old man Kulbaran, said, onje ?nubilabilla yama,
'
Which way another dance,' or, '
Is there any other dance ?
'
and Muraian showed him some more. Then he said that
all the dances that he showed Kulbaran were kumali ;
Jim-
7nidauappa (a fish) kumali ; Banjil (a fish) kumali ;
Kur-
nembo iwaiji (goose ^^^ kumali, and so on, through the
whole series.
" The stones that we saw were representatives of the
following : Gunumaramilla (a yam) ;
Kopereipi iwaiji (emu
^%Z) ; Kulijidbo (a yam) ; Kulori (a yam) ;
Kudjalinga
(turtle) ; Kudjalinga iwaiji (turkey ^^^ ;
Idabarabara ;
Jimeribunna (native companion) ; Purijiliji and Worki (lily
root) ; Kopereipi (emu) ;
Eribinjori (large crocodile) ;
Eri-
binjori iwaiji (crocodile eggs) ;
Alberjiji (whistling duck) ;
Mundebenbo (brush turkey) ;
Kunjeama (plum) ;
Kulekuli
(cat-fish).
" The sticks were representatives of the following : Kim-
berikara (Barramunda) ;
Munburungun ;
Kulekuli (cat-
fish) ; Tjunara (a yam) ;
Jimidauappa (small fish) ;
Eribin-
jori (large crocodile) ;
Numereji (a snake) ;
Murlappa (a
yam) ; Brutpenniweir (Jabiru) ;
Jungoan (snake) ;
Kud-
jalinga (turtle) ; Mundebenbo (brush turkey) ;
Murlappa
(a yam) ; Minjiweya (a yam) ; Banjil (a fish) ;
Bararil (a
small fish) ;
Kimberikara (Barramunda).
" In the case of both the stones and sticks there were, in
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 35
many of them, several representatives of the same totemic
animals and plants and also distinct stones and sticks re-
presenting males, females, and eggs of the same animals.
" The stones of course can be passed on from one genera-
tion to another, but the sticks are naturally liable to decay
and are renewed from time to time. In a climate such as
that of the Alligator River district, it is difficult to preserve,
intact, sticks that are continually being greased and painted
and are hidden away, wrapped up in paper bark, in damp
places, such as those in which the natives secrete them.
They are very liable to be attacked by insects, such as boring
beetles, and they must be periodically replaced by new ones.
When they are used during any ceremony, such as the one
we witnessed, the design is more or less rubbed off and, on
each occasion, it is repainted. The same design is always
used and must not apparently be varied. We several times
saw serious consultations taking place amongst the old men
as to the drawing of the design on a stick or stone. The
white lines are put on with a very crude but effective paint
brush, consisting simply of a little twig, about six inches long,
one end of which is frayed with the teeth and then flattened
out to form a small, thin disc about the size of a sixpenny bit.
This is dipped into the white pipe clay which has been
moistened with water so as to form a thin paste. It is held
between the thumb and fingers, the handle of the brush
lying in the palm of the hand in just the same way in which
a white artist often holds a brush.
" In addition to its function as an Intichiuma ceremony,
the Muraian serves, just as the Engwura does amongst the
Arunta tribe, as a finale to the initiation ceremonies, during
which the older men are shown objects that, in many cases,
they have never and, in some, but rarely seen. The same
is true of the Engwura, when a series of ceremonies, with
men wearing decorations and using ceremonial objects, such
as Nurtungas and Waningas, are shown to the relatively
younger men. The ceremony is supposed, in both cases, to
make the men '
good,' using the word in its native sense ;
they must not growl or quarrel. After a man has passed
through, or, rather, witnessed, the Muraian, he receives the
special status name of Lekerungen, just as, in the Arunta,
36 TO TEMISM IN A US TEA LIA R K. I
the men who have seen the Engwura are called Urliara. It
also serves to enhance the importance of the old men and is
of service to them in regard to their food supply because,
whilst they can eat any of the animals or plants associated
with the ceremony, no matter by whom they are captured,
the younger men, even when they have seen the Muraian,
must not touch anything secured by the old men and must
also give the latter a share of any of the Muraian foods that
they secure. Also, for some reason that the natives do not
know, save that their arms and hands would become very
sore if the rule were not carefully followed, the men who have
seen the Muraian must, on no account, allow a dog to eat
any remnant of their food.
" I have previously referred to the handing down of the
sacred stones and sticks. Two examples will serve to show
how carefully their history is preserved. In the case of
the Emu-egg stone, tradition reports that it has been,
in succession, in the possession of the following men :
(i) Nauundel, who originally found it, (2) Nortmanitj, (3)
Pwenguno, (4) Butja, (5) Nanilmango, (6) Nuburungillimaka,
(7) Kingunaiya, (8) Yerimain, and (9) Narlinda, who now
owns it. . . .
" In the case of an Eribinjori, or crocodile, stick, which
the natives regarded as one of the most important, the history
is still longer. It was owned in the first place by Kulbaran,
who, when he became very old and unable to perform the
ceremonies, gave it to (2) Midjail, his younger brother, after
whom the following successively received it :
(3) Numinbal,
(4) Ungoreddi, (5) Alumbawerner, (6) Amunjureri, (7)
Bulluoko, (8) Abringillimaka, (9) Ungowilla, (10) Nauukma-
witch, (11) Pwenguno, (12) Pordjo, (13) Nauulmango, (14)
Kingmanaia, (15) Kerauappa, (16) Naumarak, (17) Mant-
jiritj, (18) Yiraman, who died recently, and from whom it
descended to (19) Miniamake, its present holder.
"In the Warrai tribe ^ the name for totem is inuniulbuk.
They are divided amongst the classes.^ One group is
associated with the two classes Ajumbitj-Appularan, the
^ The Warrai tribe occupy territory Adelaide River,
east of the AlHgator River, and south ^ Spencer refers to the four divi-
of Port Darwin, near the source of the sions now known as sections.
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 37
Other with Appungerti-Auinmitj. Thus Ajumbitj-Appularan
have the following : Bulta (eagle-hawk) ; Kinnimill (a yam) ;
Gunbelli (small crocodile) ; Norquipito (red ochre) ; Bulp
(pipe clay) ;
Doito (stone axe) ; Deiurnu (kangaroo) ;
Wairdmo (fire stick) ;
Jin (leech) ; Gunnigunni (flying-fox).
Appungerti-Auinmitj have Murdukul (a fish) ; Yilli (swamp
lily) ; Tji (a snake) ;
Wit (water) ; Bera (large crocodile) ;
Kuala (turtle) ; Niri (dog) ; Gani (night time) ; Wordjal
(black plover) ; Ngurin (emu).
" It will be noticed that there are, relatively, a large
number of totemic groups associated with objects other than
animals and plants, a feature in which this and other of the
central tribes differ from the coastal tribes amongst whom,
with very rare exceptions, the totemic names are those of
edible objects.
" Inasmuch as the totemic groups are divided between
the two moieties of the tribe and a man must marry a woman
who does not belong to his own moiety, it follows that the
totemic groups are exogamic. The child belongs to a
totemic group associated with its father's side of the tribe
but not to his father's own totemic group.
" My informant told me that a leech man marries a fish
woman and that their children are yam. A fish man
marries a flying-fox woman and their children are leech. A
flying-fox man marries a fish woman and their children are
crocodile. . . . Unfortunately, I was unable to gain as
complete and minute information as I should have liked.
The Warrai tribe is now decadent, having been ruined by
coming into contact with the mining fields, and it is always
unsafe to rely implicitly upon information in regard to
matters concerned with the organisation of a tribe derived
from natives who are thus, more or less, demoralised. Dr.
Howitt drew attention to the manner in which tribes had
been obliged to modify their old customs in regard espe-
cially to marriage, in consequence of the decimation of their
numbers. My informant, called Plainmur by the natives
and '
Doctor '
by the white men, in reference to his former
profession, was, however, an old man who was well ac-
quainted with the ancient customs of his tribe. I also had
the assistance of a peculiarly intelligent '
boy '
who spoke
441155
38 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA BK. I
English well, so that, I think, the information, so far as it
goes, is correct. When their old customs were in force the
old man said that the Warrai people never killed their own
totemic animal and that if he were to see any one else killing
it he would be angry and would ask him. Why have you
killed my mumulbuk ?
" In the Waduman tribe ^ the word for totem is Gwaiyan,
though some natives pronounce it as if it were spelt Quoiyin
or Quoiyan. The following is a list of totemic groups in this
tribe : Mudbi (Barramunda fish) ; Ganbin (flying-fox) ;
Kumerinji (emu) ; Inumbergo (male kangaroo) ; Undallo
(female kangaroo) ; Wallanja (goanna) ; Tjuril (turtle) ;
Korondulmi (rainbow) ; Kunadjerri (white snake) ; Kului
(red-bellied water snake) ; Tjala or Kunajeraru (cat-fish) ;
Pingan (a bony fish) ; Tuaiin (a long-nosed fish) ; Kandaua
(moon) ; Butbutbau or Kirriwuk (a bird, the coucal) ; Wal-
lano (a yam) ; Miakka (a yam) ; Kulbijinman (a large
venomous snake) ; Miyun (wild dog) ; Biauiak (a small
bird) ; Wiyan (water) ; Bulliyan (eagle hawk) ; Mabilli
(small wallaby) ; Kadmanning (a small hawk) ; Koallimilla
(small turtle) ; Illaluban (carpet snake) ;
Errimembo (a
venomous snake) ; Ledi (grasshopper) ; five kinds of sugar-
bag called respectively Quoiyin, from the top of a tree (the
equivalent of Mormo in the Kakadu) ; Gnedbo (a small bag
also from high up) ; Luerga (from the base of ant hills) ;
Eramalgo or Eramergo (from dead limbs) ;
Dielba or Kul-
midjin (from the tops of trees).
" In this tribe, as also in the Ngainman, Mudburra, and
Billianera ^ tribes, the descent of the class name is in the
father's line, that of the totem in the mother's, with the result
that the totemic groups are distributed amongst the classes,
the same totem group occurring on both sides of the tribe.
A man must not marry a woman of his own totem.
" In addition to the main totem each individual has one
or more, usually two, accessory totems. The main one is
that associated with the totemic group into which he is born.
The others are given to him when he is initiated. He is first
^ The Waduman occupy territory ^ These tribes inhabit territory
near the town of Bradshaw, north of near that of the Waduman tribe, south
Victoria River. of the Victoria River.
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 39
of all, during the initiation ceremonies, told his main totem,
which is that of his mother, and, at a later period, the acces-
sory totems. If you ask a Waduman native what is his
Gwaiyan he will tell you his main one. He does not usually
without further questioning mention the accessory ones, the
significance of which I could not find out. As an example
of these we may take the oldest Uanai man. . . . His name
was Iblongwa and his main totem was Eramalgo, a sugar
bag ; his accessory ones are Kandauak (moon) and Tjuril
(turtle). His father's main totem was Tjala (cat-fish), with
accessory ones . . . two kinds of sugar bag. His mother's
main totem was Eramalgo, with accessory ones Kandauak
and Tjuril, which happen to be identical with his, though
this is not a matter of necessity. As he told us, when he
entered his mother, he was Eramalgo ; the other two were
given to him later when he was initiated. The different way
in which a native regards his main and his accessory totems
may be seen from the fact that Iblongwa will not cut Era-
malgo out of a tree himself, but will eat it if it be given to
him by another man. On the other hand, he will kill and
eat Tjuril freely. In the same way, a Quoiyin man will not
cut Quoiyin out of a tree himself, but will eat it if it be given
to him. The Urella man of the Kulbijinman totem . . .
whose name was Waljakula, told us that he would not him-
self kill the snake Kulbijinman, but would eat it if it had been
killed by another man and given to him. On the other hand,
he has Biauiak (a small bird) as an accessory totem, and this
he kills and eats freely.
" The different totemic groups perform ceremonies for
the increase of the totemic animal or plant. The name of
these ceremonies is Tjutju, which is quite distinct from the
name Pudaueru, applied to the sacred totemic ceremonies, or
from Warangin, the name of the ordinary corroboree. The
Tjutju ceremonies are the equivalents of the Intichiuma in
the Arunta tribe.
" The head man of each totemic group is called Tjun-
gunni. If he dies the next eldest brother succeeds to the
post, and so on through the brothers, including amongst these
the father's brothers' sons. If there are none of these alive,
then the eldest son succeeds. That is, for example, if there
40 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA bk. i
be three brothers and the eldest dies, the office of Tjungunni
docs not descend to the son, but to the elder of the two
survivors. If both of them die then it reverts to the eldest
son of the first named, even if, in years, he be younger than a
son of the second brother. Being the son of an elder brother,
he is the '
elder brother '
of all the three brothers' sons, no
matter what his actual age may be.
" When performing the ceremony of Tjutju the men of
the group paint and dance, and others watching them. After
the ceremony of any particular totemic group has been
performed the men of all other groups go out and gather
some of the animal or plant. If, for example, it be Eramalgo,
the latter, after being brought into camp, is taken to the
Eramalgo Tjungunni, the men saying. Me Eramalgo, '
Here
is Eramalgo.' He replies. Ma angui, '
Give it, I eat.' It is
handed over to him and he puts it in a pitchi, mixes it with
water, eats a little himself, and hands it over to the other
men, saying, Nun burri, '
I have finished.' After this they
may all eat it. So, in the same way, a flying-fox man will eat
a little of the animal, and hands the rest over to the other
men who do not belong to the totemic group.
" If a man of any totemic group dies, the animal or plant
is taboo to all members of that totemic group until after the
performance of a small ceremony called Orkbau. The
brother of the dead person brings the totemic animal or plant
into camp. During the ceremony the members of the totemic
group are painted with red ochre. A fire is made and the
Tjungunni man passes the body of the animal or the plant,
if, for example, it be a yam, through the smoke arising from
the fire, after which it may be eaten. All members of the
totemic group must put their heads into the smoke of the
fire in which the animal is cooked.
" In the Mudburra tribe, whose country adjoins that of
the Waduman, the word for totem is 77igah^, and the head
man of each group is called Malugurni. The descent of the
totem, as in the Waduman tribe, is counted in the female
line. . . .
" The Mudburra natives also perform the Tjutju ceremonies
to increase the totemic animal or plant. After securing the
latter the men who do not belong to the totemic group bring
CH. Ill TOTEMlSM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 41
it up to the head man and hand it to him, the old man saying,
'
Give it, I eat.' He takes a little and then hands it back,
saying, '
I have finished.'
" The Pine Creek or Wulwullam ^ tribe is now decadent,
having for many years, like the Warrai tribe, been in contact
v^ith the mining population. One of its oldest men, who
could go back to the early days, told me that the totemic
groups were divided between the moieties, and that the totem
descended in the father's line. A Kangaroo man married a
Barramunda woman, and their children were Kangaroo ; a
Sugar-bag man married a Rain woman, and their children
were Sugar-bag. . . .
" In the Worgait" tribe each individual may apparently be
associated with more than one totemic group. My informant
told me that he belonged to the frog, shark, and sugar-bag
totem groups, and that he had inherited them from his father.
The first was his main totem, the other two, as he said, '
came
afterwards.' His mother was water-snake. A man may not
marry a woman of the same totemic name as himself. If a
stranger comes into a camp he is asked, Ninik kuna koga,
'
What is your totem ? '
If, for example, he be a snake (or
yam) man, he will reply, Naidja wunga (or wila) koga, that
is, '
The snake (or yam) totem.' Further still, my informant
told me that if the stranger was an old man and told him
that his totem was frog, he, the younger man, would call him
boppa, the same name that he applies to his father. If, on
the other hand, he belonged to the water-snake totemic group,
he would call him kukka, the same name that he applies to
his mother's brother. There is, so far as I could find out,
no restriction in regard to eating the totemic animal or
plant.
" In the Djauan ^ tribe the totem groups are associated
with the sub-classes, the various pairs of the latter that are
known as '
mates,' or kuntaranbun, having totem groups in
common. Thus Ngaritjban and PUngaringba have pelican,
kangaroo, and goanna ;
Pulainba and Palieringba have
''
Pine Creek is south-east of Dar- ^ The Djauan tribe occupies the
win, on tlie railway hne. territory about Katherine on the Daly
- The territory of this tribe is on the River, south-east of Pine Creek and
coast, a little to the west of Port Darwin. south of the Alligator Rivers.
42 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
sugar-bag and lily. ... A man may marry a woman of any
totem group provided she belongs to the proper sub-class,
and as the totem groups are strictly divided amongst these it
follows that a man cannot marry a woman of the same totemic
name as himself. The word for totem is lunga and descent
is counted in the male line. My informant was a Wamut
man of a snake {tjural) totem ; he was married to a Pu7t-
garingba woman of the goanna totem and his children were
Kungilla and snake.
" In the Mungarai tribe ^ the totem groups are associated
with the sub-classes, the native term for totem being Nam-
aragua. Each totemic group has a head man called Tjuge-
anandu. My chief informant, an old man named Wal-
lungwarra, gave me the following list of totemic groups, but
it is probable that there are still more ; these, however, were
all that he, and two other men with him, could recollect :
" Bat (wallalka), black snake (djungwitj), cat-fish (warba),
small crocodile (walbian), crow (waiwagmin), euro (kangil-
auro), goanna (djerkain), hawk (kamannin), kangaroo
(gaauwi), lily (godiak), frilled lizard (wadidji), native com-
panion (dagmin), opossum (widjurt), pelican (abaiya), por-
cupine (mullulberri), waterplant (ngarait), rain (ngaugo), a
non-venomous snake (ngabandi), a poison snake (mimain),
water snake (nanjugo), sugar-bag (ngauwap), native turkey
(tjambirrina), long-tailed wallaby (walligeru), wallaby or
paddy melon (mabiling), dark wallaby (ngirimu), rock wallaby
(wunarungun), W'ind (wailulu).
" The groups are divided amongst the sub-classes [sub-
sections] . . .
" A remarkable feature of the totemic system of this tribe
is that while, as usual, a man must marry a woman belonging
to a totemic group different from his own, the children pass
into one which is neither the same as that of their father or
mother, but is associated with the sub-class [sub-section] to
which they belong on the father's side of the tribe. The
following list indicates a certain number of the marriage
arrangements so far as the totem groups are concerned and
those into which the children pass :
—
•^
The Mungarai tribes are on the Roper River, some distance inland from
Port Roper.
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 43
A Ngapalieri man of the water-plant totem marries a Nakomara
woman of the paddy-melon totem and their children are Ngabullan
and poison snake.
A Ngapalieri man of the rain-totem marries a Nakomara woman
of the rock-wallaby totem and their children are Ngabullan and Euro.
A Nangiella man of the plains-wallaby totem marries a Ngabullan
woman of the euro totem and their children are Tjabijin and opossum.
A Nakomara man of the paddy-melon totem marries a Ngapalieri
woman of the brush-tailed wallaby totem and their children are
Ngaburella and porcupine.
A Ngaburella man of the porcupine totem marries a Ngaritjbellan
woman of the frilled-lizard totem and their children are Nakomara
and small hawk.
A Ngangiella man of the goanna totem marries a Ngabullan
woman of the turkey totem and their children are Tjabijin and lily.
A Ngabullan man of the sugar-bag totem marries a Ngangiella
woman of the crocodile totem and their children are Ngapalieri and
rain.
A Tjabijin man of the pelican totem marries a Ngapungari woman
of the cat-fish totem and their children are Ngangiella and black snake.
A Ngaburella man of the kangaroo totem marries a Ngaritjbellan
woman of the wind totem and their children are Nakomara and
paddy-melon.
A Tjabijin man of the dingo totem marries a Ngapungari woman
of the native-companion totem and their children are Ngangiella and
plains wallaby.
" The same curious system is apparently present in the
Yungman tribe/ into which, however, I had very httle op-
portunity of inquiring. The totem groups appear to be
associated with the sub-classes, and the children of necessity
belong to a group associated with the father's side of the tribe
but with a sub-class to which he does not belong—-the sub-
class of his father and of his children. Thus, for example, a
man of the dingo totem marries a sugar-bag woman and the
children belong to the rain totem. The Nullakun term for
totem is Mtingaiini.
" These two tribes appear to differ from their neighbours
in having their totem groups divided, not between the
moieties, but the sub-classes [sub-sections], so that it is
impossible for a child to have the same totem as either its
father or its mother. The Mungarai and Yungman are in
contact, on the one hand, with tribes such as the Djauan,
^ The Yungman tribe are on the Elsey Creek of the Roper River, west of
the territory of the Mungarai.
44 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA BK. :
which has been already described, and, on the other, with the
Nullakun and Mara.^ The organisation of the Djauan, so
far as the class system is concerned, is identical with that
of the Mungarai and Yungman, and yet the totemic system
is practically the same as that of the Mara and Nullakun
tribes, from both of which it differs radically in regard to its
class organisation. In the Djauan tribe the totem groups are
divided between the sub-classes in such a way that those to
which parents and children belong have them in common
and the descent of the totem is strictly paternal. In the Mara
and Nullakun the same is true, though sub-class names are
not present. My informant in the former tribe was a Mumbali
man and his totem, the native word for which is Urarakammo,
was a snake called danal. His father's totem was Datial,
and so, also, was that of his children. His wife was a Purdal
woman and her totem was Tjamkuai or Euro ; his mother
was a Kuial woman of the wordabil or goanna totem. His
son must marry a Kuial woman of the zvof-dabiI totem. Each
totem group has its head man who is called Yunguan.
" So, again, in the Nullakun tribe descent is counted in the
direct male line and the totems are divided between the
classes. Thus, the children of a kulakulungini, or rainbow
man, are kidakulungini ; those of a nanguru, or large
crocodile man, are nanguru, and those of a janambu, or
small crocodile man, are janajnbu. The native word for
totem is mus, and each group has its head man, who is called
Kujungowangeriy ^
North-eastern Arnheim land is a region of the Northern
Territory lying north-east of a line extending from Cape
Stewart on the north coast to Blue Mud Bay on the Gulf of
Carpentaria. The social and totemic organisation of the
tribes inhabiting this area have been described as follows
by Mr. T. Theodor Webb, Chairman of the North Australia
District of the Methodist Missionary Society of Australia :
—
" The social organisation of these peoples is marked by
a very pronounced emphasis on the importance of the horde,
^ The territory of the Nullakun lies distance inland from the Gulf of Car-
to the south of the Roper River, and to pentaria. See Totemisni and Exo-
the east ofthe territory of the Mungarai. gamy, i. 237 n., 270, 302 sq.
The Mara are situated south-east of - Baldwin Spencer, Native Tribes
the territory of the Nullakun, and some of the Northern Territory, pp. 1 78-209.
en. Ill TO TEA/ISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 45
each of which exists as an ahnost entirely independent unit.
These hordes are very numerous ;
some of them are very small,
and there is definite evidence that several of them have actually
become extinct, at least in so far as their patrilineal descent as a
separate unit is concerned. With the few exceptions, each of
these hordes, no matter how small, has its own particular dia-
lect. In many cases the dialectal difference is small, and in at
least one instance would appear to be consciously artificial.
" The two moieties into which the aboriginal society is
divided are known as Yiritcha and Dua respectively, and
these names are used without variation throughout the area
indicated. Each horde is exclusively Yiritcha or Dua, as
the case may be, and every man obtains his wife from some
other horde of the opposite moiety.
" The two moieties are divided into eight subsections,
four Yiritcha and four Dua, and the prevailing form of
totemism includes the definite relationship of all members,
both male and female, of each subsection (jjiarlk), with some
particular bird or animal, which is known by the individual
as his or her d'2,tir^oin. These d^^u^oin have, as far as I am
able to discover, no association with totem centres. Every
member of the same subsection possesses the same d2,uv^oin,
irrespective of the horde to which he belongs.
" The eight subsections, with their totems, are as follows :
—
Subsections
46 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA BK. I
" The moieties are determined by patrilineal descent, but
the subsections by matrilineal descent.
" The regular system of marriage between the subsections,
with the subsections of the offspring, is as follows :
—
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 47
organs. These 7}iuraian would, I suppose, be termed cere-
monial totems, though it seems an abuse of the term so to
apply it. Muraian is the common '
outside '
name for these
objects, while the ceremonial or '
inside '
name is ra^ga.
Mtiraian is, on rare occasions, used to indicate anything
sacred or tabu, but correctly the term applies only to these
particular objects, the general term for sacred being yarin.
Thus the mi^raian or rav^ga is yar'in.
" The ceremonies associated with these ra^ga are known
as nara,'^ but while there is found an ill-defined system of
local totem centres the nara ceremonies are performed at
any suitable place, quite frequently in the territory of another
horde many miles from the totem centre to which it belongs.
Not infrequently both Yiritcha and Dua hordes will unite
for a nara ceremony, rar^ga of both moieties being used.
" It is upon these rar)ga that the only real cohesion be-
tween the various hordes is based. Certain hordes of the
same moiety, though as widely separated as Elcho Island
on the north coast and Blue Mud Bay on the Gulf of Car-
pentaria, possess the same rar^ga, and these are regarded as
belonging to the same mala. I leave it to be determined
whether the term tribe, sub-tribe, or some other should be
applied to these mala.
" The horde is usually referred to by the name of the
dialect spoken by the members. The name of the mala is
much less frequently used. . . .
" Though I have been resident among these people for
the past six years I have failed to discover any name which is
applied to any combination of hordes of both moieties.
Neither have I discovered a name for the language of which
the various tongues spoken are dialects. Kopapingo is some-
times used for the various Yiritcha dialects and Jumbarpingo
in the same way for the Dua dialects.
" As will be gathered, I disagree with Dr. W. Lloyd
Warner in his application of the name Murngin generally to
the hordes of both moieties. ^ As I have shown, the Murngin
^ " It should be noted that the «ara ^ Oceania, i. 251, 331, and 457;
ceremonies are in no sense increase also American Anthropologist, New
rites, which are unknown in this Series, xxxiii. 207 ; xxxiii. 172.
region."
48 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA BK. I
is purely a Yiritcha mala. All my informants are most em-
phatic that no Dua man could possibly belong to the Murngin
group. It is but one of several Yiritcha and Dua mala, the
hordes of which are scattered over the same area. I therefore
consider Dr. Warner's use of the name to be unfortunate
and misleading.
" If a tribe is to be defined as a number of neighbouring
hordes which are united by the possession of a homogeneity
of language and custom, then it appears that all the people
of the area indicated belong to the one tribe, which for the
time being must remain nameless.
" The widely separated locations of the hordes of the
same 7nala present a puzzling problem. Probably migration,
at least in part, accounts for it. An example of this is found
in the Daiorrorr horde of the Berrkali mala, which within
the lifetime of its present members migrated from the south
of Buckingham Bay to its present location on the Goyder
River. Possibly some evidence of migration is also found in
the legends of the people, including the hordes along the
northern coast and the islands adjacent thereto. In these
legends a very large proportion of the mythological ancestors
whose exploits they relate are represented as having lived
and laboured and instituted the customs of the people in the
neighbourhood of Caledon and Blue Mud Bays. In some
cases these ancestors are represented as starting in at that
point and travelling right across the country in a north-
westerly direction to the opposite coast. These same legends,
with local variations, are apparently found throughout the
whole area, and the social organisation and the customs of
the people are of the one type." ^
The social organisation of the Aborigines who inhabit
north-east Arnheim Land had previously been described by
Mr. W. Lloyd Warner, on the basis of the investigations
made by him from 1927 to 1929. According to him the
aborigines are divided into eight tribes. One of these which
he calls the Murngin occupies a territory on the coast of
North Australia where the Gulf of Carpentaria joins the Ara-
fura sea. Of this tribe he tells us that " The Murngin are
^ T. Theodor Webb, " Tribal Land," in Oceania, vol. iii. No. 4
Organization in Eastern Arnheim (June 1933), pp. 406-41 1.
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 49
organised into local clan hordes, which are regrouped into
the moieties called Yir-i-Tja and Du-a. The clans and
moieties possess multiple totems. A number of ceremonies
connected with the various totems are celebrated by all the
clans during certain seasons of the year." . .
.^
A child inherits a totem from its father ; when the totemic
emblem is shown to the boy for the first time, the father or
clan leader says : This is your father or your grandfather.
The boy will always call it by one of these terms. Most men
call their totem " father." Their mother's totem is called
" mother," or " mother's brother's son," and the totems of
other clans are traced by the nearest relative in these clans."
Where the account of Mr. Warner differs from that of
Mr. Webb it is probable that preference should be given to
that of Mr. Webb, whose longer residence and labours
among the natives entitle him to speak with authority on
the subject. The two accounts of the kinship system have
been examined and elucidated by Professor A. P. Elkin ;
but his discussion of the subject is too technical for reproduc-
tion here.^
With regard to the kinship and marriage organisation
of the tribe, Mr. Warner tells us that " there are seventy-one
relatives and seven lines of descent with five generations
considered in the Murngin type of kinship structure. The
Murngin system has a symmetrical cross-cousin marriage as
its fundamental mechanism. A male can marry his mother's
brother's daughter but not his father's sister's daughter,
while a female marries his father's sister's son but she
cannot marry her mother's brother's son." *
In the western part of the Northern Territory the Daly
River fiows in a north-westerly direction into the Timor Sea.
In 1932 the tribes of this region were investigated by Mr.
^ W. Lloyd Warner, " Morphology ^ W. Lloyd Warner, op. cit. pp.
and Functions of Australian Murngin 207, 208.
Type of Kinship," in American An- * A. P. Elkin, " Marriage and
thropologist, New Series, xxxii. (1930) Descent in East Arnheim Land,"
p. 207. Mr. Lloyd Warner's re- Oceania, vol. iii. No. 2 (June 1933),
searches were conducted under the p. 412.
auspices of the Australian National * L. Warner, " Kinship and Mor-
Research Council and the Rockefeller phology of Forty-one North Australian
Foundation and under the direction of Tribes," American Anthropologist,
Professor A. R. Radcliffe-Brown. xxxv. (1933) p. 73-
E
50 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
W. E, H. Stanner under the auspices of the AustraHan
National Research Council. The native tribes of this region
were then reputed to be uncontaminated by white influence,
but Mr. Stanner found this to be very far indeed from the
case, for he found that a knowledge of the English language
was widespread among the natives, some of whom spoke it
with remarkable fluency, and most of his communications
with the natives were conducted in English. He spent seven
months altogether among them, including eleven weeks
among the Mulluk Mulluk and Madngella, six weeks with
the Marithiel, and four weeks with the Nangiomeri. On the
whole he had little difficulty in establishing friendly relations
with the natives, except with two tribes, the Marithiel and
Moiil, both of whom really belong to the country between the
Daly and the Fitzmaurice Rivers.
The Marithiel allowed him to witness two complete
circumcision ceremonies, and to be present during stages from
which all but fully initiated men were rigidly excluded. In-
formation as to the sacred life of the various tribes was
communicated only after patient waiting for several months,
during which the natives gradually acquired confidence in
the enquirer.
The remnants of about one dozen tribes now live more
or less permanently within a narrow strip of country, which is
less than twenty miles long, on the alluvial flats between the
middle and the lower reaches of the Daly River. Not all
these tribes actually belong to this region, but have drifted
to it. A few other tribes, which did actually belong to it,
are now either extinct or are broken up and scattered,
although the remnants of one or two remain on the river.
This narrow strip of the river, which was the special field
of Mr. Stanner's researches, is at present and has always been
the centre of practically all settlement since the first invasion
took place, probably about the late eighties of the nineteenth
century. A Roman Catholic Mission station was established
in the country about 1890 or 1891, but it has long been
abandoned.
Among the chief objects of Mr. Stanner's investigations
were the complex kinship systems and social organisation of
the river tribes, and the paralysing fear of sorcery, which
CH. Ill TOTEMISM OF NORTHERN TERRITORY 51
has all tribes in its grip and which afforded him a fund of
excellent material. He studied also the domestic and inter-
tribal economic systems, which reveal a degree of organisation
not usually considered characteristic of Australian tribes.^
Among the results of his studies he tells us that the
complex sectional, subsectional, or moiety organisation
characteristic of so large a part of Australia is not found
among the true Daly river tribes. The Nangiomeri, who
possess a subsectional system, now live on the Daly, but really
belong to the country just north of the Fitzmaurice.
So far as history shows, the Daly River has been an area
without moieties, sections, subsections, or any named or
unnamed divisions of this kind whatever.
The Nangiomeri are the only natives in the Daly river
region who appear clearly to have had a form of totemism
before acquiring the matrilineal subsection totemism. It is
almost certain that they once possessed a type of patrilineal
totemism, but it is too late now to show what precise form it
took. Some form of totemism also exists among the Nangor
of the northern bank of the Fitzmaurice River. This is
possibly dream totemism.
Among the Nangiomeri each subsection is associated
totemically with a number of natural species and objects,
and a fragmentary list of these given to Mr. Stanner by his
best informant carried with it a strong suggestion of the
" multiple totemism " of other parts of Australia. But it
is membership of the subsections, not totemic affiliation,
which governs marriage. According to one of his informants
persons of the same totem should not marry, but on this
point his information is not satisfactory. Mr. Stanner says
that " In the list given me I can find no instance of a totemic
object or species being shared between two subsections, not
even for the list given for the subsections of a man and his
mother's brother, as one would think they should be. All
my informants, however, quite frankly admitted that they
did not know very much about either the toteinic system or
the subsection system. There is, moreover, a clear indication
that among the tribes from which the Nangiomeri acquired
^ W. E. II. Stanner, " The Daly River Tribes," in Ocea?iia, vol. iii. No. 4
(June 1933), pp. 377 sq.
52 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA BK. I
what knowledge they possess of these new systems, there is
some sort of local distribution of the subsections, and of this
the Nangiomeri knew nothing, except that in the south-west
certain subsections are '
boxed up.' Even if the Nangiomeri
had their complete local organisation still intact, and a
kinship system functioning without irregularity, much of the
subsection system they have taken over would still be function-
less, as it now is. The eight-subsection system has clearly
been elaborated to function in a kinship system very different
from the original system of the Nangiomeri, with its orthodox
Kariera-type characteristics." ^ Mr. Stanner's informants
knew nothing of ceremonial observances towards the totems,
and he adds that many prohibitions against eating certain
plants and animals in this area are clearly not totemic, but
are temporary prohibitions imposed at certain periods, such
as puberty and initiation, menstruation, and pregnancy.
^ With regard to the Kariera type of kinship system, see below, pp. 54 sqq.
CHAPTER IV
TOTEMISM OF THE KARIERA AND OTHER
TRIBES OF WEST AUSTRALIA
KiMBERLEY DIVISION is a large district of West Australia,
extending along the coast from Queen's Channel, on the
border of the Northern Territory and West Australia to the
De Grey River. Adjacent to it is the North-Western Division,
occupying the territory between the De Grey River and the
Ashburton River. In this district the Kariera tribe was in-
vestigated by Mr. (now Professor) Radcliffe-Brown^ in 1911,
with the assistance of Mrs. Daisy Bates, who had for some
years been studying the aborigines of Western Australia on
behalf of the West Australian Government. The services of
Mrs. Bates were generously placed at the disposal of Pro-
fessor Radcliffe-Brown by the Government.
The Kariera tribe occupies the coast of Western Australia
from a point to the east of the Sherlock River to a point east
of Port Headland, extending inland for about fifty miles.
The tribe is bordered by the Ngarla on the east, the Ngaluma
on the west, the Ingibandi on the south, and the Namal on
the south-east.
The surviving natives of the Kariera tribe, all of whom
speak English, and comprise a total of a hundred or less, are
nearly all living on sheep stations that have been established
on their tribal territory. They are fed and clothed by the
owners of the stations or at the expense of the Government,
and the able-bodied men and women work on the stations.
^ A. R. Brown, " Three Tribes of (1913) pp. 143-194. Cf. Oceania, vol.
Western Australia," Journal of the i. No. 2 (July 1930), pp. 208 sq.
Royal Anthropological Institute, xliii.
53
5 4 TO TEMISM IN A USTRA LIA B K . I
The tribe is distinguished from its neighbours by the
possession of a name (Kariera, of which the meaning is
unknown), a language, and a defined territory. There is no
tribal chief, nor any form of tribal government. The fights
that formerly took place were not between tribes, but between
one part of the tribe and one part of another, or even two
parts of the same tribe. Thus there was no unity of this
tribe in warfare. The extent of the territory of the tribe is
between three thousand five hundred and four thousand
square miles. The northern part of their country is mostly
level plain covered with grass and scrub with occasional hills
of no great height. In the south there are numerous stony
hills, with intervening flats. The coast is low, consisting
chiefly of sand-dunes and mangrove swamps. The natives
have a very large number of geographical names, many of
which, if not all, have a meaning that is understood at the
present day. An interesting feature of the nomenclature,
which often leads to confusion, is that there are often two
different places with the same name. Thus, there are two
places called Murumbarina, one on the Turner River, and
one on the Sherlock River. Murumbari is the name of a
species of beetle, which is common, it seems, in these two
places. Every geographical feature, every little hill, pool, or
creek has its name.
The tribe is divided into a number of local groups, each
with its own defined territory. Membership of the local
group is determined by descent in the male line ;
that is to
say, a child belongs to the local group of its father and
inherits hunting rights over the territory of that group. These
local groups have no distinctive names. To the question,
" Where is your country ?
" a native will reply by naming
one of the more prominent camping places of his local group,
or sometimes the place where he was born. Along the coast
there are seven local groups, occupying altogether a strip of
land about eighty miles long and a little less than ten miles
wide. This gives the area occupied by each as about one
hundred square miles, or a little more. The inland groups
seemed to occupy each a somewhat larger country, between
one hundred and fifty and two hundred square miles. This
is as might be expected, since the coastal natives have both
CH. IV THE KARIERA AND OTHER TRIBES 55
the land and the sea from which to obtain their food supply.
As a rough estimate we may suppose that the tribe consisted
of between twenty and twenty-five local groups. It is now
impossible to obtain any accurate information as to the
former size of the local groups, that is the number of in-
dividuals belonging to each. Professor Radcliffe-Brown
estimates that each grodp contained not less than thirty
individuals, giving the minimum for the tribe of about seven
hundred and fifty, but he admits that this is a very rough
estimate.
Each member of a group has the right to hunt over the
territory of his group at all times, but he may not hunt over
the country of any other local group without permission of its
owners. A single exception to this rule seems to have existed
where a man w^as following a kangaroo or emu and it crossed
the boundary into the country of his neighbours, when he
might follow it and kill it. But in general hunting or collect-
ing vegetable products without permission on the country of
another local group was treated as a trespass liable to be
punished by death. The respect attached to this law seems
to have been so great that infractions of it were very rare.
Professor Radcliffe-Brown could find no evidence of the
individual ownership of any part of the soil, or any of its
products. The whole territory of the group and everything
on it appear to belong equally to all the members of the
group.
It was impossible for a man to leave his local group and
become naturalised or adopted in another. Just as the
country belonged to him, so he belonged to it. If he left it
he became a stranger, either the guest or the enemy of the
people in whose country he found himself. He might pay
visits to other groups, and such visits appear to have been
very frequent, but his " home " was his own country, the
country of his father's father. At the present day the in-
fluence of white settlement has altered all this. The country
now belongs to the w^hite men, and the natives have to live
where they can. But still the attachment of a man to his own
country has not been destroyed. Natives often express a wish
to die and be buried in their own hereditary hunting ground.^
^ A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op. cit p. 146.
56 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA BK. I
In their original state the natives never stayed long in
one place. They shifted from one camping ground to another
perpetually. It does not seem that the whole local group
always lived and moved about as one body. A single family,
that is a man and his wife or wives and their children, often
travelled and hunted by themselves. A single individual, or
a family, or several families, might pay a visit to a neighbour-
ing group, during which time they hunted in the country of
their hosts. When some particular article of food became
very abundant in the country of one group they invited their
neighbours to come and stay with them. Thus the inland
natives visited those on the coast when fish was plentiful.
On the occasion of the performance of a ceremony, members
of different local groups might be found camped together
often for weeks at a time. There was thus a perpetual move-
ment of population both within the country of the group and
from one group to another.
" This state of things," says Professor Radcliffe-Brown,
" shows very clearly that the unit of social life in the Kariera
tribe was the family, consisting of a man and his wife or
wives, and their children. Such a unit might move about by
itself without reference to the movements of the other families
of the local group. In the camp each family had its own hut
or shelter with its own fire. The family had its own food
supply which was cooked and consumed by the family. The
man provided the flesh food and his wife provided the
vegetable food and such things as small mammals or
lizards."
A native camp is regularly composed of two parts, the
married people's camp and the bachelors' camp. The latter
contains all the unmarried men, including widowers ; un-
married women and widows live with one or other of the
families of the married people. As the local groups were
exogamous, the rule being that a man was not permitted
to marry a woman of his own local group, the result was
that in the camp of a local group would be found only
men and unmarried women and children who belonged
to the group by birth, the married women born in the
group not living in it, but, with their husbands, in other
groups.
CH. IV THE KARIERA AND OTHER TRIBES 57
With regard to relationship and marriage, the Kariera,
together with a group of other tribes occupying with them a
large district of south-western Kimberley, are divided into
four exogamous sections named respectively Banaka, Burung,
Palyeri, and Karimera. No meanings were found by
Professor Radclifife-Brown for these names. To the natives
of the present day, they are simply the names of social
divisions, and have no further meanings. The other tribes
which share this organisation are Ngerla, Ngaluma, Indji-
bandi, Pandjima, Bailgu, and Nyamal, and probably also
the Ngadari, Wirdniya, Targudi, Ibarga, Widagari, and
Nangamada.^ In the Kariera tribe men of the Banaka
section may only marry women of the Burung section and
a Burung man may only marry a Banaka woman. The
child of a Banaka man and a Burung woman is neither
Banaka nor Burung but Palyeri, while the child of a
Burung man and a Banaka woman is Karimera. The
child of a Palyeri man and a Karimera woman is Banaka,
and the child of a Karimera man and a Palyeri woman is
Burung.
In the Nyamal, Bailgu, Pandjima, and Indjibandi tribes
the names of the sections are similar, but the arrangement of
the sections is different. Thus a Banaka man marries a
Karimera woman and the child is Padyeri, while the child
of a Karimera man and a Banaka woman is Burung. So,
also, a Burung man marries a Padyeri woman and the child
is Karimera, while a Padyeri man marries a Burung woman
and the child is Banaka. We find here a condition that
recurs in other parts of the continent, in which neighbouring
tribes have similar names for the intermarrying sections,
but the arrangement of the sections, and consequently the
rules of marriage and descent, are different. Marriage
between the two tribes is then arranged by regarding a given
section in the one tribe as equivalent to a certain section in
the other. The equivalence of sections between the Kariera
and Nyamal tribes, as shown by genealogies, is
—
^ A. R. Radcliffe- Brown, " The Australia," Journal of the Royal
Social Organization of the Australian Anlhropological Institute, xliii. (1913)
Tribes," p. 35 (Oceania, Melbourne, p. 147.
193 1); "Three Tribes of Western
5 8 TO TRMISM IN A US TRA LIA B K . I
Nyamal Kariera
Banaka is equivalent to Palyeri
Burong ,, ,, Burung
Karimera ,, ,, Karimera
Padyeri ,, ,, Banaka^
The tribes of the area already indicated have kinship
system of the Kariera type, in which a man marries a woman
who stands to him in the relationship of " mother's brother's
daughter " or " father's sister's daughter." Marriage of
actual first cousins is approved and is indeed regarded as
the proper form of marriage, though of course it occurs only
in a limited number of instances. In all the tribes there is
exchange of sisters in marriage, that is, a man's sister is
given to his wife's brother in return for the latter's sister.
In this area the individuals born in one horde constitute
a patrilineal local clan. Thus in the Kariera tribe in one
horde all the persons belonging to that horde by birth will
belong to one or other of the couple of sections Karimera
and Burung. In another horde the position will be reversed,
the persons born in that horde being Karimera and
Burung while their wives are Banaka and Palyeri. The
local clan is therefore necessarily an exogamous group. A
man may not marry a woman born in the same horde as
himself.
Each local clan is also, in a certain sense, a totemic clan,
having a number of totems. In the territory of each horde
Professor Radcliffe-Brown found a number of totemic
centres, called talu in Kariera, each of which is specially
associated with one or more species of natural object. Those
natural species for which totem-centres exist in the country
of a horde may be spoken of as being the totems of the
horde or of the local clan. There is no prohibition against
eating or using one's totem. Associated with each talu or
totem-centre there is a ceremony which is believed to produce
an increase of the totem. Thus at a kangaroo centre a
ceremony can be performed for the purpose of making
kangaroos more plentiful. The ceremony at a given centre
is a possession of the clan to which that centre belongs and
^ " Social Organization of Australian Tribes," p. 34.
CH. IV THE KARIERA AND OTHER TRIBES 59
is performed by the men of that clan. There is a system
of myths which relate how the various totem-centres came
into existence as the result of the doings of certain mythical
ancestors. It may be noted that a totem-centre is usually a
spot in the neighbourhood of which the totem species is very
plentiful.
There are traces in these tribes of a system of section
totemism. In the Pandjima tribe the euro or hill kangaroo
is named padjeri, which is also the name of one of the four
sections, and it is regarded as belonging to that section. An
informant of this tribe stated that the crow and the rock
wallaby are Banaka, while the eaglehawk and the plains
kangaroo are Burung. In this tribe, and in the Indjibandi,
terms of relationship are applied to the animals that are thus
associated with the sections. Thus an Indjibandi man of the
Padjeri section called the hill kangaroo {padjeri) maiali,
father's father ; the eaglehawk, being Burong, he called
tami, mother's father, and so on.
We have seen that the Kariera tribe is divided into a
number of local groups each with its own defined territory,
with descent in the male line, and that each local group
belongs to one of the two couples into which the tribe is
divided. The local group thus forms what we may call a
" clan," with male descent, all the male members being
" father's father," " son's son," " father," " son," or
" brother " to each other.
Each of these clans forms a single totemic group, possess-
ing a number of totems. All the totems of the clan are
equally the totems of every member of the clan. For each
totem belonging to the clan there is, as we have seen, within
the territory of the clan a ceremonial ground or totemic
centre for which the name is tahi.. The talu is a spot set
apart for the performance of totemic ceremonies. Thus the
Pidira talu is the spot set apart for the performance of cere-
monies connected with the pidira, white cockatoo. The
talu belongs to the men of the local group in whose territory
it is found, and the ceremonies connected with the talu belong
to them at the same time. If a talu lies within the territory
of a certain local group only the members of that local group
can perform the ceremonies connected with it.
6o TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA BK. I
The totemic ceremonies of the Kariera tribe have been
discontinued for many years. Professor RadcHffe-Brown was
therefore unable to see any of them performed, and had to
rely entirely upon what the natives told him about them.
Information of this kind is of course very unsatisfactory.
The purpose of the ceremonies is said to be to increase the
supply of the animal, plant, or other object with which it is
connected. Thus the purpose of the mungu or white ant
ceremony is to increase the white ants, which are eaten by
the aborigines. At many of these totemic ceremonial grounds
there is either a single boulder or a heap of small stones and
these play a part in the ceremony performed at the place.
In some cases it would seem that the stone or heap is struck
with clubs or with stones held in the hand. The performers
of these ceremonies are painted, and decorated with feathers
and bird's down. The women of the clan take part in the
ceremonies as well as the men. In some cases songs are sung,
in others one of the performers calls out the names of the
different parts of the country. The head man of the clan,
unless he be too old, takes a leading part in the ceremonies
of his clan.
There is no prohibition whatever against a man or woman
killing any one of his or her totems, if it be an animal, or
against eating it if it be edible. The following is a list of the
totems of some of the Kariera clans, as it is given by Professor
Radcliffe-Brown, who tells us that " the list does not profess
to be complete. It does not include all the clans of the
tribe, nor can I be sure that all the totems of any clan are
enumerated."
Yiliguji .
Pidira
Kuriiija .
Mdngdbuga
Yatumba .
Pira
Wongali
Tarbun
Balanu
II
Karimera-Burung
rainbow. At Womalana.
white cockatoo. At Balla-balla.
March fly. „
fish.
conch shell.
Banaka-Palyeri
a lizard. At Kayingarana.
crab.
fish.
CH. IV THE KARIERA AND OTHER TRIBES
fish.
6i
Banangura
Waragalara
Churi
Minagalara
Kagimiada
Nynmeru
Kandara .
Wanangiira
Kmiibuda
Puna
Wajabi
Wanangadi
Kulibiri .
Mungii
Tananiada
Taiyiniara
Yigara
Nyura
Pindamt .
Ill
At Magalana.
At Madukurbarana.
"
62 TOTEMISM IN A US TEA LIA bk. I
kangaroo totem or an emu totem, nor was there a rain totem,
unless we include in this tribe a clan at Pilbara, which more
probably belongs to the Injibandi tribe. The absence of
these totems in the Kariera tribe is of some interest when
we compare that tribe with others, for example, with the
tribes on the Ashburton River, to be described later.
" I could not find any prohibition against a man or woman
eating his or her own totem if it were edible, or against killing
it. Every native that I questioned said that there was no
such restriction. A man killed and ate his own totem as
readily as he killed and ate any other animal.
" As regards many of the totems, it would seem that the
totemic centre or ceremonial ground is in a part of the
country where the totem species is naturally plentiful. Thus
the ceremonial grounds of the white cockatoo and the March
fly are in the creek at Ballaballa, where these two species
are plentiful. In a number of cases, not only in this but also
in other tribes, I was able to satisfy myself that the totem
animal or plant is actually more abundant near the cere-
monial ground belonging to it than in other parts of the
country. In a large proportion of cases the place where the
ceremony is performed is called by a name formed by adding
the suffix na to the name of the totem. Thus there are two
totemic centres for murumbari (a beetle), and in both cases
the name of the totem centre is Murumbarina. . . . Similar
place-names, that is, consisting of the name of some species
of animal or vegetable species with the suffix -na, are also
given to spots where there is no totemic centre, but where
the species in question is more abundant than elsewhere. . . .
" It is to be remembered that '
children '
are a totem of
one of the Kariera clans, and it is the duty of the members
of this clan to perform ceremonies for the increase of
children. . .
." ^
The Ngaluma tribe occupies the coast of West Australia
from the Maitland River to the Sherlock River, extending
inland for about fifty miles. The neighbouring tribes are
the Kariera, the Mardudhunera on the south-west, and the
Indjibandi on the south. Ngaluma is the name by which the
members of the tribe refer to themselves, and by which they
^ A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op, cit. pp. i66 sqq.
CH. IV THE KARIERA AND OTHER TRIBES 63
are known to their neighbours. Professor Radchffe-Brown
could discover no meaning for the name. The extent of the
tribal territory is approximately two thousand five hundred
square miles. It is composed of stony hills with intervening
flats often of considerable area. The chief rivers are the
Maitland, Nickol, Harding, and Sherlock. The pools in
these rivers provide a fairly plentiful supply of fresh water.
There are very few survivors of the tribe, probably not more
than sixty all told. In 1865 they are said to have numbered
from two hundred and fifty to three hundred persons, but
this may have only applied to the neighbourhood of Roe-
bourne and Nickol Bay.^ The tribe is divided into local
groups in exactly the same way as the Kariera tribe,
and we are told that the description already given of
the Kariera under this heading will apply equally well
to the Ngaluma, and the relationship system of the
Ngaluma tribe is similar in every respect to that of their
neighbours, the Kariera. Again, the totemic system of the
Ngaluma is exactly similar to that of the Kariera. Professor
Radcliffe-Brown was not able to obtain much information
about the particular totems of the tribe ; but he found that
two clans of the tribe had for their totems : Taiyangul, a fresh-
water fish; Piranu, eel; Jigura, a fresh-water fish; Ngaburain,
a vegetable ; Mariangu, a grub ; Ngangari, a seed ;
Jhnar,
a fruit ; Kalgal, vomiting sickness ; Mudu, cold weather.
Further he discovered that another clan, whose geographical
situation he could not ascertain, had for its totems : Kalai-
jura, a bird ; Walaigura, pigeon ; Minarang, centipede ;
Ngandarhnirgura, shark ; Budabudara, a fish ; Puliribuga,
a fish ; Win-ge, a fish ; Bida-biday a fish.^
The totemic ceremonies of this tribe have not been per-
formed for many years and the younger men know very little
about them. When the ceremony for producing cold weather
was to be performed the men and women of the clan went
together to the ceremonial ground. There they painted them-
selves with white clay. Some of the men made a great
^ A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, " Three Australian Race, i. pp. 296-303.
Tribes of Western Australia," in " A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op. cit.
Journal of the Royal Anthropological pp. 170 sq.
Institute, xliii. (1913), quoting Curr,
64 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA Bk. I
break-wind of boughs and grass, and to one side of this a
big fire was lighted. The break-wind was so placed that it
would shelter the occupants from the south-east wind, which
is the cold wind, even if at the time the wind was actually
blowing from some other direction. The performers then sat
round the fire within the break-wind or shelter and pretended
to shiver with cold. After this the weather was sure, they
thought, to grow colder in a few days. In some of the
ceremonies connected with seed totems, a part of the ceremony
consisted of grinding some of the particles of seeds in the way
in which they are usually prepared for food, and then scat-
tering the flour in different directions, calling out the names
of different parts of the country in which the performers
wished the seeds to flourish and ripen. If only these simple
savages had omitted the first of these processes, by refraining
from grinding up the seeds, they might have discovered that
seeds so scattered produce a crop, and so might have dis-
covered the origin of agriculture, thousands of years before
its introduction into Australia from Europe. With regard
to the totem of vomiting sickness, Professor Radcliffe-Browm
learned from an informant that if this ceremony were per-
formed the natives were seized with attacks of vomiting.
" Why this ceremony should ever be performed," remarks
Professor Radcliffe-Brown, " unless perhaps as a means of
annoying their neighbours, it is difficult to see." ^ Perhaps
it may have been invented by some primitive Aesculapius to
benefit the health of his fellows after a surfeit of food.
The Mardudhunera tribe occupies an area of approxi-
mately three thousand five hundred square miles on the lower
Fortescue River in western Kimberley. On the south-west
the tribe is adjoined by the Nsala, on the north-east by the
Ngaluma, and on the south-east by the Injibandi or Korama.
The local organisation of the tribe is in all respects similar
to that of the Kariera tribe, and their totemism is also similar
to that of the Kariera. Each local clan has a number of
totems that are transmitted from father to son. The members
of the group perform ceremonies, called talu, for the purpose
of increasing the totem, but there is no objection to a man
killing or eating any of his totems.
^ A. R. Radclifte-Brown, op. cit. pp. 172 sqq.
CHAPTER V
THE TOTEMISM OF THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES
OF THE KIMBERLEY DIVISION, WEST AUSTRALIA
The totemism and social organisation of the tribes in this
Division of Austcaha have been investigated by Professor
A. P. Elkin. In regard to them he tells us generally, "though
Eastern Kimberley, North-Western Australia, has been
settled for about fifty years, yet there are sufficient natives
left with a knowledge of their tribal institutions to make
possible a valuable study of the relationship of totemism to
the subsection system which prevails there, and of the
relationship of both to the local organisation—a work which
badly needs doing. The tribes of this region are all the
more interesting, too, because they are joined on the west
by tribes with moiety organisation and patrilineal totemic
clan-hordes, and on the south-west by tribes with four-section
systems. Further, in addition to areas in which the aboriginal
culture is breaking down, there are still a number of tribes in
which totemic institutions, customs and beliefs are function-
ing uninfluenced by our invading culture, and are playing
their full part in native social and religious life. . .
." ^
The Karadjeri is the most southerly coastal tribe of
the Kimberley Division. Its country stretches from about
Nooreen Well on the south, to the southern shore of Roebuck
Bay and the neighbourhood of Thangoo Station in the north,
a distance of eighty-five miles as the crow flies, and inland
about thirty miles in the north and about sixty miles further
south. The Nangamade, whose social and totemic organisa-
^ A. P. Elkin, " Totemism in vol. iii. No. 3 (March 1933), p]). 257
North-Western Australia," Oceania, sqq.
65 F
66 TOTEMISM IN A USTRATIA bk. I
tion seems to be similar to that of the Karadjeri, joins the
latter on the south and south-east. The Yauor, a small tribe
around Thangoo Station, with the same type of kinship and
totemic systems as the Karadjeri, is the nearest neighbour
of that tribe on the north. Two tribes border the Karadjeri
on the east, namely the Nygina, about whom we know a
little, and on the south of the latter, the Mangala, about whom
we know nothing.
The Karadjeri territory is divided into a number of horde-
countries called nura which are, or were, for the most part
patrilineal and patrilocal. A person belongs to the horde
of his father and has free access to the countries of his mother
and his father's mother. The term 7nira, however, is also
applied to a person's spirit-home, the place in which he was
" found " by his father ; this is usually a part of the horde-
country.
Each horde has associated with it one or more totems
or bugari. As in so many tribes in North-West, Central, and
South Australia, the term for totem also designates the long-
past time when the culture-heroes and totem ancestors lived
on earth, made its natural features, and instituted tribal
laws, customs, and rites. Again, as in these other regions
the same word has the significance of dreaming.
Where cult-totemism is concerned, the question, " What
is your dreaming ? " is equivalent to asking " What is your
totem ? " and is answered with the name of the cult-totem.
The ancient time of the heroes is the " dream time," but not
the fleeting dream of the night ;
rather it is the eternal
dream-time of spiritual reality to which historical significance
is attached. To a native a dream is a real objective experi-
ence in which time and space are no longer barriers, and in
which information of great importance is gained by the
dreamer. This information may refer to the sky-world, if
the dreamer be a medicine-man, or to the earth beneath, to
his fellow tribesman, or even to his child yet unborn. But
the great " dreaming " or dream-time was the age of the
mighty heroes and ancestors, who indeed still exist. And
so a person's totem links him to that period and gives him a
share in it. Again the totem is also bugari^ dreaming, be-
cause it represents the totemite in the dream-life of the
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 67
present-day men and women. Moreover the totem might
well be called " dreaming," since a father becomes acquainted
with a child's totem by dreaming of it. Indeed, according
to the theory of conception held by the Karadjeri, and every
other tribe of Kimberley, the father " finds " or sees in a
dream, or maybe in a waking vision, the child that his wife
is to bear. The country in which he has the dream becomes
the horde-country of the child, while a dream associates the
child with its totem, its bugari.
Karadjeri totemism is a variety of local totemism in that
the various bugari (totems) are definitely associated with
particular horde-countries or localities, and that the father's
dream associates the totem and his child, while still a
spirit-child, with the country in which he " found " it, which
normally should be, or is arranged to be, some part of his
own horde-country. But while fundamentally the totemism
is " local," the descent is almost always patrilineal. Patri-
local marriages, that is marriage in which the wife goes to live
with her husband, the faith of her children, combined with
the patrilineal descent of the hordes, always tends to make
descent of the totem, which normally depends upon the
accident of conception, birth or " finding," patrilineal. This
is especially true when, as in the Karadjeri tribe, the totems
are divided amongst the patrilineal hordes. Again, where
the local totemism is also a cult-totemism, that is associated
with secret myths, rites, and sanctuaries, and it is a variation
of this in the Karadjeri tribe, a father naturally likes his son
to belong to his own totem and to share in its ceremonies.
But in the Karadjeri tribe the patrilineal descent on which
some of the old men insist is based primarily on the patri-
lineal descent of the horde country, amongst which the
bugari (totems) are divided ; the chance of " dreaming " the
child and its totem outside the father's horde-country is
obviated by the sticklers for old beliefs by the fiction that
the father must " find " his spirit-child in his own horde-
country. But others, more sophisticated, just maintain that
the descent is patrilineal.
There is also the possibility that although a child is
" found " in, and belongs to, his father's horde-countr}',
yet a dream will assign to it a totem different from the
68 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA BK. I
father's. In one such case a man of the kangaroo totem
" found " one of his sons in his own horde-country, but
associated with a yam, which then became the boy's totem.
Thus father and son belong to the one " country " but to
different totems.
Usually and normally, the horde-country in which a child
is " found " and born is the same, and is, moreover, the
horde-country of the father. But if they are not the same,
the general principle seems to be to give the place of " find-
ing," that is conception, as the horde-country, though many
regard the place of birth as the horde-country of the in-
dividual. No doubt both places are regarded in some
spiritual sense as the person's horde-country, and if the dream-
ing has been normal the totem of the place of " finding
"
becomes the child's totem. In any case the father's horde-
country is also that of his child, no matter where the latter was
" found " or born, for he is brought up in it and is always
free of it.^
With regard to associated or multiple totems, there does
not seem to be any obvious principle which governs the
grouping of totems in individual cases. Thus one person
has for his totem two kinds of stingaree (fish), a diver, and
a kangaroo. The last of these does not fit into a salt-water
complex. Another has the sea, cockle, and crab, which are
naturally associated, but his fourth totem is crow. In other
cases the associated totems are rainbow and yam, or fire and
honey, or fire and kangaroo, or stingaree, porpoise, and diver,
eagle-hawk and wattle, or stingaree and human lice, or yam
and bakenia tree. Now those species and objects are as-
sociated in dreams, but this is so for they are, in the most
part, first of all associated as multiple totems of horde-
countries, and this is no doubt because, for the most part,
they are found associated in natural life. In other cases
mythology and the evidence of dreams would possibly provide
the explanation.
The totems are exogamous. To this rule Professor Elkin
could find no exceptions, and his informants admitted none
in discussion.
As to the eating of the totem an old man reported
1 A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 266-26S.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 69
what was probably the general principle, namely that a
person might eat his totem, but only if it were killed by a
man who belonged to the couple of sections to which the man
himself did not belong, that is to the sections of his mother's
brother and wife's brother, but not to his own or father's (or
child's) section.
The foregoing discussion of hordes and totems applies
also to the Yauor tribe, the only difference being one of
terms : horde-country and birthplace are called boru and
totem dyalnga. These terms are used throughout Dampier
Land, a district of Kimberley immediately north of the
territory occupied by the Karadjeri. Almost all Yauor
persons have more than one totem.
^
" In Karadjeri totemism," observes Professor Elkin, " we
are dealing not with a variety of social totemism, the priinary
function of which is to denominate and regulate social
groups, but with cult-totemism which gives the individual
his place in and share of the ceremonial, mythological, and
'
spiritual '
life of the tribe."
Though Karadjeri totemism is primarily a variety of cult-
totemism, its economic significance should not be overlooked.
The very names and geographical distribution of the totems,
together with the existence of ceremonies for the increase of
totemic species on which the supply of edible and other
socially valuable objects is believed to depend, makes this
clear. An examination of the list of totems shows that the
totems of a horde-country are species or objects found in it.
Of course they may also be found elsewhere, but they are
usually specially plentiful, or believed to be so, in the locality
of which they are the totems ; moreover, mythology furnishes
the reason for this in incidents in the lives of the heroes of
the bugari (dream) time.
Thus many miles inland, at Mabalngo, one of the great
heroes, being hungry, made some holes in the rocks, from
which plenty of iguanas came forth. This, obviously an
increase ceremony, explains the abundance of iguana at this
site now. Being thirsty, the same hero made another hole,
and this time fresh water came forth, and has been issuing
from the same place ever since as a spring. This is the
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 270-271.
70 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. i
general type of what may be called the local totemic myth,
" but my information does not show whether Mabalngo is an
iguana increase centre or not, though iguana is a totem of
this horde-country." ^
" The list of totems shows that the vast majority of
totems are edible species. . Of course spring water as a totem
should be included under this heading. Other totems
obviously reflect the economic and social importance of the
objects concerned : the sea, from which so much of the food
of the coastal groups is derived, fire on which the food is
cooked, which provides warmth, and is almost the centre of
social life, the wattle w^hich provides the wood for the long
one-piece spears, the thunder and the rainbow, which are
associated with the much-needed rain, and the stars which
are the bugari (heroes) in the heavenly forms, and so are
constant reminders of the history, sanctions, and ideals of the
tribe."
^
The economic as w^ell as the social significance of the
totems is demonstrated by the existence of totemic sites at
which ceremonies for the increase of the totemic species are
performed. The sites, which are usually standing stones or
holes in the ground or rock, are commonly found in those
parts of the tribal country where the particular species con-
nected with them are plentiful, and normally do increase year
by year. There is believed to be a centre for the increase of
every species or object which is of value or significance to the
tribe. If a centre for a particular species is not found in
Karadjeri territory, then one will be found in a neighbouring
tribe. A similar belief in the existence of such totemic
increase sites for all such species and objects seems to be held
by all tribes who possess any such sites.
The rites and centres for the increase of the totemic
species may be said to localise and focus the belief in the pre-
existence of the spirits of all forms of life and objects which
are of value to man and society. This belief applies also to
human beings. Spirit-children are believed by the Karadjeri
and Yauor to live in trees, stones, fresh water and the sea,
and their " finding " is associated, as we have seen, with
dreaming, the local country, and totemism.
1 A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 281. ^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 282 sq.
CH. y THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 71
Within the time at his disposal Professor Elkin was not
able to record many of the rites connected with such totemic
centres, but what he did record was sufficient to show that
they were of the usual type, to which the term tahi is now
applied. That is, a rite of a prescribed form is performed by
a deiinite group of people, members of the local horde, at
the centre which is the dwelling-place or source of the spirits
and life of a particular species, the totem, and as a result
the species increases. But in addition to the rite, the site,
the performers, and the totem, there is usually a myth which
records and explains the association of the totem with the
site, gives a sanction for the rite, and relates both to the
bugari (dream or mythical) period. The performers, or at
least some of them, are the guardians of the sacred site, the
rite, and the myth. That is, they possess, as trustees, that
portion of the sacred history, ritual, and sites of the tribe, or,
more briefly, that portion of the bugari, which is symbolised
by the totem concerned, and on which the life and future of
the tribe is believed partly to depend.
The performers of rites need not, as in Central and South
Australia, belong to the totem. We find that the men of the
local horde, in whose country the talu site is situated, perform
the rite connected with it. Some, perhaps most of them,
belong to the totem concerned. There is no reason, however,
for doubting that in earlier times the performers not only
belonged to one moiety and one local horde, but also to the
particular totem, though they might have been "assisted by
members of other totems. In the Karadjeri tribe the cere-
monies for the increase of the totems are divided amongst
the patrilineal moieties. Thus men of the Burong-
Karimba moiety " own " and lead the rites for the increase
of parrot-fish, honey-bees, cockles, garfish, ants, native
plums, locusts, pink cockatoo, wallaby, rock-fish, porpoise,
crab, and salmon. The men of the Panaka-Paldjeri moiety
are in a similar position with regard to the rites for the
increase of stingaree, native cat, iguana, crow, flounder, eels,
eagle-hawk, pearl-shell, calni weather, opossum, and bandi-
coot. The important point is that the rites at the increase
site are performed by men of the local horde who belong to
one moiety, for any horde or local group does for the most
72 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA bk. i
part, perhaps altogether in former times, belong to one moiety.
Further the leader, and at least some of the performers, belong
under normal conditions to the totem which is being increased
and which, incidentally, belongs to the moiety with which the
local horde is especially associated.
The performers are fully initiated men, and women and
children may not be present. That at least is the general
rule. But in spite of this women do play a subsidiary part.
Most of the Karadjeri rites for the increase of the totemic
species are performed at definite times of the year, namely,
just before the period when the species concerned should
normally increase. This is just what happens among the
tribes of Central Australia. But some increase rites may be
performed at any suitable time or when an increase of the
species is specially desired. These latter are connected with
species such as the porpoise, or a condition such as calm
weather, which are not especially connected with any definite
period of the year.
The Karadjeri, like all the Kimberley tribes, divide the
year into a number of named seasons, which are distinguished
partly by climatic changes, but to a greater degree by the
kinds of edible species that are available at the different
times. Thus the division is economic as well as climatic, and
because nearly all of the increase rites are associated with the
definite seasons in which particular species should begin to
increase, the division of the year may also be regarded as a
ceremonial one, as a sort of sacred calendar.
The Karadjeri seasons of the year are : wilburu, a
transitional period between the cold south-east season and
summer, about September, when equinoctial winds blow and
the weather grows hot ; ladya, the very hot dry time of the
year, about October to December ; mangala, the wet season
from about January to the beginning of April ; viarul^
another short transitional period, at the end of the rainy
season ; and pargana, the cold south-east season about May
to August.
The season prescribed for any particular talu (increase)
rite is usually the one just preceding the period, though
sometimes it is the actual season, when the species is especially
plentiful, or fat, or when its eggs are plentiful The talu
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 73
centres are situated, as we have seen, in districts where the
species concerned do normally increase, and secondly, when
the rites aim at increasing the species in districts other than
that in which the spirit centre is situated, as they frequently
do in the Karadjeri and other Kimberley tribes, only those
districts are chosen in which the species does normally
increase. In other words, the aborigines are guided by actual
economical and geographical facts, and make no attempt to
divert the ordinary course of Nature and bend it to any
passing desires and needs which they might have. Rather
they are concerned with the maintenance of Nature's normal
course throughout the seasons. With the regular course of
Nature their own life is intimately bound up. And given
their philosophy of the pre-existcnce of spirits and the
mythology behind it, their system of talii centres and rites
for the increase of the totemic species is the logical means
of attaining this end. The rites must be regarded as a means
of co-operating with Nature in the maintenance of the normal
course of events, which should be manifested in the regularity
of the seasons and the rain, and the increase of natural
species at the usual times. The talu system is of course a
means by which man expresses his needs, and the rites serve
to express and strengthen the unity of the groups within the
tribe. In the rites he not only expresses his desires in words
and actions, but, as in so many of the rites, he often gives of
his own life, that is, his own sacred blood, to the species,
through its sacramental symbol, so that Nature, or at least
some particular natural species, may continue to live and
increase.^
We may take as an example the Karadjeri rites for the
increase of honey. Men of the Burong section are the
principal actors, and are assisted by the men of the Karimba
section. Men of the Panaka section ask the former Burong
men to conduct the ceremony. The performers go to the
hole at the increase centre, which is known as Nangala, and
with bushes sweep it and also the rock around the top. They
then cause blood both from their arm-veins and from sub-
incised penes to flow on the bottom of the hole. Sometimes
too the Panaka man who asked the Burong headman to
1 A. P. Elkin, op. cil. pp. 290-291.
74 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
" make " honey, that is, to perform the rite, is asked to give
some of his blood for the purpose. There is neither singing
nor dancing but the Burong men recite certain words. Each
of the men present then takes some of the mixture of blood
and dust from the bottom of the hole, and puts it in a small
hole in a stick. Concealing the sticks in their hair, they go
to the different places where bees should be active, and put
them in trees. Needless to say, women are not allowed to see
these sticks.^
Another ceremony for the increase of honey is performed
at a spot called Bangadandjading, about two miles from La
Grange, where a standing stone about five feet high and
one foot in diameter at the top but more at the base, rises out
of an outcrop of rock. A small hole at the base, about eight
inches in diameter and the same depth, represents a beehive.
A Burong man is in charge of the spot, and when performing
the ceremony cleans out the hole, rubs off some of the rock ,
into it, and also lets some of his own arm-blood drip into it,
uttering words as in the other ceremony for the increase of
honey. The bees will then go out and make honey in the
trees.
^
An interesting feature of the increase rites in the Karadjeri
tribe is that most of them are associated with a hole in the
ground or in rock and that the principal ceremony consists
in cleaning this hole. In this way the species are freed to go
forth and be propagated. But in most cases an essential
ceremony follows the cleaning, namely causing human blood
to flow or drip on to the bottom of the hole ; thus the life
of the performers is given to, or shared with, the totem, the
spirit-centre of which is the hole. Another feature, and one
which is essential, is the recital, during or immediately
following the blood-giving, of words which express the desire
for the increase of the totemic species in the named localities.
The transference of a mixture of blood and dust from the
honey-totem centre to the trees, is an acting-out of the desire
expressed in words.
^
The totemism of the Karadjeri tribe has also been in-
vestigated by Mr. Ralph Piddington, who has given us a
1 A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 291. ^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 295.
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cii. pp. 291-292.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 75
valuable account both of the rites performed for the increase
of the totems and the myths associated with them. Speaking
of their totemism in general, he says that the institution is of
fundamental importance in the life of the natives, since it is
functionally related to every other element in their culture
and determines to a very great extent the attitude towards
life of the individuals living in Karadjeri society.
" As far as the writer can judge, the institution of totemism
among the Karadjeri has been affected by white influence to
a lesser degree than any other element of the culture, probably
because of its highly emotional value in the minds of the
natives. On the other hand, we must not forget that the
culture as a whole has been for many years under the influence
of the white man, and we cannot assume that Karadjeri
totemism as it appears at present represents exactly the form
of the institution as it existed before the arrival of Europeans.
However, the more stable elements of the totemic system,
such as the increase ceremonies and their associated mytho-
logy, may be regarded as retaining the more important of
their original features.
" The Karadjeri language has two words for totem, namely,
bugari and kunibali ; however, though one would describe a
man of, say, the ivolaguni (eaglehawk) totem as either
wolaguru bugari or zvolagu?'u kunibali, the two words have
somewhat different associations, the study of which is of
value in understanding the native view of totemism. The
term bugari, like the word alchera among the Aranda,
possesses several meanings. In the first place it connotes
that which has a binding force upon the society ; to describe
an institution as bugari means that that institution has a
special sanction which renders it inviolable. This is derived
from the fact that all things which are bugari were instituted
by mythical beings in bugari times, that is, in the distant
past when the world was created. Thus the most general
meaning of the term when applied to a social institution is
that it has a sort of categorical imperative associated with it.
" Apart from its reference to the period of the world's
inception and the sanction for present institutions derived
therefrom, the word biigari is also used to denote the totem
of an individual ; the connection is fairly clear when we
76 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA bk. i
consider that each totcmic group is derived from an ancestor or
ancestors who in btigari times instituted it, and thus in Karad-
jeri totemism the individual is hnked, through his member-
ship of the totemic group, not only with the other members
of the group and the associated natural species, but also with
bugari times.
" Associated with the last meaning is another use of the
word to denote dreams ; this again is quite clear in view of
the fact that the most important aspect of dreams, in the
native mind, is that through a dream a father establishes the
patrilineal inheritance of the totem by his children." ^
" In order to clarify the conception oi biigari we may con-
sider its relation to two other words, namely idya and niundyu,
which may be translated " true " and " false," respectively ;
but whereas idya is always contrasted with mundyu, it is
sometimes contrasted with bugari, and sometimes used to
qualify it. Thus if a native wishes to convey the fact that an
incident which he has described did not occur in the mytho-
logical " dream-times " but at some time within the memory
of living members of the tribe, he will describe it as mtilal
bugari, idya {Mulal means " not "). An alternative way of
expressing this meaning is mulal bugari, dyarla, the last
word denoting present time. On the other hand, idya may
be used to qualify bugari, and is so used to a great extent
during initiation when it is impressed upon the novice that
the tribal traditions which he is learning are idya bugari.
We may next consider the relation of the word bugari to the
word kunibali.
" Now kujnbali medins both namesake and totem, so that a
man's totem is either his bugari or his kimibali ;
if it is
desired to distinguish between the two meanings of the word
kuiubali, the Karadjeri call a man's totem his bugari kunibali
and his namesake his dyarla or maruv^u kunibali, ?narur]u
meaning simply man." ^
" Every Karadjeri man or woman possesses one or more
bugari kumbali, which are obtained as follows. Before a child
is born its father dreams that he sees his own bugari together
with a yardar^gal (spirit child) ;
this must take place in his
1 R. Piddington, " Totemic Sy.stem vol. ii. No. 4 (June 1932), pp. 373 sq.
of the Karadjeri Tribe," in Oceania, ^ R. Piddington, ^Z.
«'/. pp. 374 j-y.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 77
own horde territory, though he may be absent from it at the
time ; the yardar^gal subsequently enters the man's wife,
who becomes pregnant. Now a man must dream of his own
bugari in this way, so that totemism may be said to be patri-
hneal ; but he may also dream of other bugari of his own
moiety ; it thus happens that many individuals have three
or four totems, and that totems do not belong exclusively to
specific hordes, though the increase centres associated with
them do, and the increase ceremonies must be directed by a
man of the local group in whose territory the centre is
situated."
In regard to the killing and eating of the totem there
exist quite definite prohibitions. Certain informants stated
that they could eat their totem if killed by another man, and
one or two that they could both kill and eat it ; these state-
ments, however, are almost certainly the result of European
influence.^
In this tribe though the director or leader of the cere-
monies performed for the increase of the totemic species has
full control over the performance of the ritual, he may be
helped by other men, and under certain circumstances by
women. When the last man of a certain totem dies he
bequeaths his title to a man of the same district and not to
a member of the same totem belonging to a different country.
It thus appears that increase ceremonies are associated
primarily with the districts in which the increase centres are
situated rather than with the individual members of the
totems. Thus, for an example, an increase centre of the
•parrot-fish totem is situated near Cape Bossut ; some years
ago Nyirimba (the last surviving man of the parrot-fish
totem) died, bequeathing his office of director of the ceremony
for the increase of parrot-fish to Kombil, a Cape Bossut man
of the death-adder totem, and Kombil is now the only man
who can direct the parrot-fish increase ceremony, though he
may, of course, be assisted by other men.
Though the Karadjeri have localised rites for the increase
of natural species, by no means all species have increase
centres situated in Karadjeri territory. It is, however,
essential to note that theoretically (in the minds of the
^ R. Piddington, op. cit. pp. 375-376.
78 TOTEMISM IN A USTRATIA bk. I
natives) all important natural species have somewhere centres
for their increase, and a number of these in the territories of
surrounding tribes, even as distant as the De Grey River,
can be named as the place where certain increase ceremonies
are carried out.
Though the increase ritual is not so circumscribed as it
is among, for example, the Arunta (Aranda), there are
nevertheless certain prescribed forms. Thus, as mentioned
above, the increase ritual belongs primarily to the local group
rather than to the totemic group, there being but little
solidarity between the members of the same totem living in
different countries. Moreover, people of one or other of the
two patrilineal moieties are always conceived as directing the
ceremony, though they are assisted by members of the other
moiety.
Increase centres are generally situated at places where
the natural species in question is plentiful. Thus for ex-
ample Birdinapa Point, which forms the northern edge of
Lagrange Bay, is the best place on the coast for any kind of
fishing, and here are situated a number of fish increase
centres.
Ceremonies for the increase of the totemic species are
usually performed once a year, and when a natural species
appears at one season only, the ceremony associated with that
species is performed just before it becomes plentiful ; on the
other hand ceremonies for the increase of foods that are
perennial may be performed at any time of the year.
In the Karadjeri tribe an invariable accompaniment to
increase ceremonies is a series of instructions uttered by
performers as they carry out the ritual ; these are of one
general pattern, and consist of instructions to the species to
become plentiful. They are continued throughout the cere-
monies, various districts being named in succession as places
where the totem in question should become abundant. It
should be observed that in reciting these lists of districts the
natives name only those places in which the species is actually
to be found ; at the cockle increase ceremony a performer
was corrected by his fellows for naming a part of the coast
where cockles are not found. These instructions are associ-
ated with the belief that all increase centres were instituted
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 79
in bugari (mythical) times, when a number of spirit members
of the species were left at the centres ; these come forth
under the influence of the ritual and so ensure the increase
of the natural species. Sometimes a song associated with
the mythical origin of the ceremony is sung.
At the performance decorations are worn : they consist
of powdered charcoal, red ochre, white mangrove mud, white
down obtained from such birds as the native companion,
and human blood obtained by boring a hole in one of the
performer's forearms with a pointed bone from the leg of a
wallaby ; this last is strictly rai, that is to say, it may not be
witnessed by women.
Sometimes under European influence these decorations
are omitted.
Increase centres are called ouraka, that is, clean or tidy
places, a term which is also used for the place where the
sacred pirvial are kept. Increase ceremonies are called
karulbiinya, that is, rubbing.
The increase centre for parrot-fish is situated at Cape
Bossut. It consists of an ovoid stone, about eighteen inches
in length, partially buried in a horizontal position in the
ground. This is said to be a parrot-fish. The headman in
charge of the ceremony digs away the earth from around the
stone, at the same time saying that parrot-fish are to be
increased and asking for a plentiful supply, while as the
earth is being dug out it is scattered north and south, while
various coastal districts are named and the fish is told to be
plentiful in these parts. When a quantity of earth has been
removed the stone is taken out and laid on its side near the
hole from which it has been taken. It is then addressed as
follows, " At low tide you will lie like this." After this the
stone is painted with charcoal and also red and yellow ochre
mixed with grease, replaced in its hole, and packed around
with earth. Branches of trees are then held resting on the
tree for a moment, after which they are swept down a path-
way towards the sea. This ensures that fish will leave the
rock and go down the path to the sea. That ends the
ceremony. This rite may be witnessed by women except
when human blood is drawn in the way already described.
The blood is supposed to make the fish fat. The ceremony
8o TO TEMISM IN A US TRA LIA B k . I
is performed during the season that the fish are caught upon
the reef at low tide.
About three miles south of Lagrange there is a large
stone projecting from the ground at which a ceremony is
performed for the increase of wild honey. The ritual belongs
to the Burung-Karimba moiety, and women may watch from
a distance of about fifty yards. The grass is cleaned away
from a circular patch around this stone and also from a
pathway of small stones a few yards in length leading away
from the stone. The purpose of this is to allow the bees to
escape from the large stone and to travel from it down the path
of the small stones. Earth is taken from around the base of
the stone and scattered in all directions while various dis-
tricts are named, and the bees are told to become plentiful
at each of them. After this some of the smaller stones are
taken and thrown against the large one, where they break
into small fragments which fly in all directions. The men
who throw them at the same time shout " zvah." This is
said to imitate the buzz of bees, which are represented by the
flying fragments of stone. One or two fragnients are then
broken off the large stone with a tomahawk in order to allow
bees to escape. This concludes the ceremony.
The beliefs associated with this ceremony are somewhat
difficult to ascertain. Sometimes it is honey that is thought
to be increased thereby, sometimes bees, and sometimes
bees' eggs are said to be increased. Actually the important
thing to the natives is probably the belief that the rite
increases their supply of honey. It appears that the first
purpose is to increase bees' eggs within the stone ; these
then become bees and leave the stone to go into the bush
and make honey. This interpretation is borne out by the
myth associated with the centre. It is said that two mythical
water snakes, man and wife, called Djigurdaing, came from
the east and made bees' eggs, as a result of which bees left
the stone and made honey. The large stone represents the
female Djigurdaing ; her husband is represented by another
stone a few hundred yards distant which plays no part
in the ceremony. Two stones at the base of the female
Djigurdaing represent beeswax.^
^ R. Piddington, op. cit. pp. 379 sq.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 8i
On either side of a small mangrove creek at Lagrange
Bay are several heaps of cockle shells. Each of these heaps
on the northern bank of the creek represents a shell, and a
solitary heap on the southern bank represents the fish inside.
The latter is the centre for the increase of cockles, which may
be performed at any time of the year. (The cockle-fish is a
perennial article of diet.) At the ceremony, which belongs
to the Burung-Karimba moiety of the tribe, no decorations
are worn, and women may assist. The ceremony is a very
simple one, and consists of cleaning out a hole at the top of
the mound.
The ceremony was instituted in bugari (mythical) times
by Djui (bower bird) who, together with his wife, came from
the district to the north of Broome. Djui made a nest in a
tree and a playground, his diet consisted solely of fish and shell-
fish ;
the former he killed with a wooden implement which
he carried. He made a small yard of stones, and one day, on
looking into it, saw a number of fish. He then travelled
down the coast making the present native fish traps, semi-
circular rows of stones in which fish are caught as the tide
recedes. He killed a mullet, the body of which became a stone,
which is now the centre for the increase of mullet on the
northern shore of Lagrange Bay, and he also instituted the
cockle increase centre at Lagrange Bay.
After a while the exclusively fish diet began to disagree
with Djui and his wife. They became very sick and at
last died, leaving the fish traps, and telling people not to
live on fish alone but to eat " nalgoo " and other fruits
as well. They also gave the tradition that men caught fish
(because the male Djui did so) while women gathered and
cooked cockles because the female Djui performed these
duties.
At Yardugara, a few miles from Nebrika, there is a local
centre for the increase of native cats. The ceremony may
be performed at any time of the year, though the best season
is pargana, since the native cats are fat at this time, when
they are tracked to holes in trees or ant beds. Women are
not allowed to share in the cereinony, though they inay watch
it. No decorations are worn ; the performers approach the
spot singing a song referring to the eating of men in the
G
82 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
associated myth. They clean out the hole, and fling the earth
in different directions. This increase centre, which belongs
to the Panaka-Paldjeri moiety of the tribe, was established by
a bugari (mythical) man called Pardjida as follows. Pardjida
saw a dead man ; he placed a firestick beside the corpse to
cook it ; he then ate the body. This happened a number of
times. One day he saw three dead men near Nebrika ;
he
ate them all except their three heads, which he devoured
as he walked along. Having eaten too much he burst,
and in this way the native cat increase centre was estab-
lished.
Near Rolah windmill, about five miles from Lagrange,
is a hole in the ground which is a centre for the increase of
garfish. Here the ceremony may be performed at any time,
but the best season is niarul} The fish are plentiful through-
out t\\Q pargava^ season, but are obtainable throughout the
year in the mangrove creeks, where they are killed with
wooden implements. The ritual is very simple and consists
of cleaning out the hole in the ground. No decorations are
worn by the performers, and women do not assist at it but
are allowed to be present. The ceremony belongs to the
Burung-Karimba moiety of the tribe.
The myth of the ceremony runs thus. A headman named
Bilyabig of the garfish totem and his wife camped at the
spot where they killed a number of garfish ; they died there,
leaving the tradition of the increase ceremony to the garfish
totem. The woman left here a wooden dish which may be
seen as a depression in some rocks near by ;
this is a well
during the wet season.
Two holes, about twenty-five yards apart, near Nebrika,
are a centre for the increase of ants, where a ceremony is
performed during the zvilbtiru^ season, both men and women
participating. The centre belongs to the Burung-Karimba
moiety of the tribe. The performers, men and women,
decorate themselves in white down ; the two holes are cleaned
out and a pathway cleared between them. The men sit
around the hole on the south side and the women at the hole
to the north. The latter then crawl along the pathway which
has been cleared, to the men's place, where all the performers
^ For the seasons ^ar^awa, marul, and wilburu, see above, p. 72.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 83
remove their white down and place it in the hole. It is
subsequently blown away by the wind, and so represents the
male ant. This concludes the ceremony, which was established
in mythical times as follows. A number of women used to go
in search of ants but could never find any because they had
all been taken by Ngalamarara (a goanna woman). One day
the women came upon her singing a song to the effect that
the women had no ants because she had taken them all. The
women took Ngalamarara back to their camp, where they
treated her as a friend. Thus was established the ritual for
the increase of ants, which are no doubt an article of food
for these people.^
Near Nebrika is a hole in the ground which is a centre
for the increase of the fruit of the native plum tree, and
belongs to the Burung-Karimba moiety of the tribe. The
ceremony is performed during the niarul season, the fruit
appearing during pargana, though it is not fully ripe until
ladya. No decorations are worn, and women may assist.
The ceremony consists of pouring water into the hole, pro-
ducing a brown mud from which balls arernade representing
the fruit. These are placed around the hole and left to dry
in the sun. This concludes the ceremony, which was estab-
lished in mythical {bugari) times by a man called Djarumba,
who carried a conch shell full of fruit. He saw a number of
people who called out to him, offering food ; when he came
close, however, they told him that they had not been calling
to him. This was, of course, untrue. Djarumba went away,
but returned the next day, only to be treated in the same way.
The same thing happened a number of times. One day he
met a young man and asked permission to cut his hair off
;
he took the hair and rolled it into pellets, which he hung on a
native plum tree. He then picked some of them and placed
them in a wooden dish. Taking this, he went off and found
the crowd of people, who treated him as they had always
done. Instead of going away he showed them the pretended
fruit, which they ate. He then took them and showed them
the native plum tree, from which they plucked a quantity of
fruit. As it was really pellets of hair, they all died. Djarumba
may now be seen as a native plum tree near Nebrika \\'^ell,
1 R. Piddington, op. cit. p. 383.
84 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
about a mile from the place where he estabHshed the centre
for (he increase of plums.
On the north-west edge of Injidan Plain there is a centre
for the increase of goanna, a kind of lizard. The ceremony
is performed during the wilburu season, the goanna pro-
ducing its eggs during ladya. The centre belongs to the
Panaka-Paldjeri moiety of the tribe. Women may watch it but
not share in the ceremony. The performers decorate them-
selves with stripes of white mud representing goannas. They
then clean out a hole in the ground, making pathways along
which the goannas are to go to the various districts where
they will afterwards be caught. Finally vines are coiled up
inside the hole and dragged out along the pathways, thus,
it is said, dragging out goannas.
The increase of goannas is associated in the minds of the
natives with the ceremonies for the increase of wallabies,
which are performed at a place about two miles distant.
This association is described in the following myth. Kara-
daing (a wallaby) used to obtain blood from his arm-veins
by scratching them with his claws, a method which he found
very painful. He used to place the blood obtained in this
way in a bark dish and drink it. One day Karabigi (a
goanna) came up and watched Karadaing. Karabigi had a
pointed wallaby bone with which he produced blood from
his arm. This method was much more satisfactory than that
of Karadaing since it was less painful and produced more
blood. They drank the blood together and Karabigi gave
his pointed bone to Karadaing. As a result of this wallabies
now have the pointed bone in their legs, and men know how
to produce blood in the correct way. Karabigi established
the increase centre associated with this species of goanna,
while Karadaing instituted the ceremony for the increase of
wallabies.
About two miles from the goanna increase centre on
Injidan Plain there is a centre for the increase of wallabies.
The ceremony is secret, and may not be seen by women,
though they may go near the centre at other times. The
ceremony may be shown to a novice during his seclusion in
the bush after circumcision, though it does not form a necessary
part of the initiation ritual. The rite is performed during
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 85
the tvilburu^ season, the animals being said to be particularly
fat during the ladya} season. The men decorate themselves
with charcoal and red ochre, and clean the ground around
the hole in a grove of cadjibut trees, at the same time making
sounds resembling those of the wallaby, and asking that they
may become plentiful in various places. One of the men
allows blood to flow into the hole, and several songs are
sung. These are the same as those told to the novice during
initiation. The ceremony belongs to the Burung-Karimba
moiety.^
In the case of the crow and pink cockatoo, we find the
centres for the increase of two natural species situated close
to each other. Between Lagrange Bay and Injidan Plain
is a large dark coloured stone projecting from the ground.
This is a centre for the increase of crows ; about twenty
yards distant is a centre for the increase of pink cockatoo.
The two ceremonies are performed together, during the
pargana^ season, that of crow first. This ceremony belongs
to the Panaka-Paldjeri moiety of the tribe, and the other to
the Burung-Karimba moiety.
The performers clean away any leaves, sticks, or other
litter from around the crow stone. They then lay their
hands upon the stone, stroking it, and asking the crow to
become plentiful. When this is concluded they move on to
the pink cockatoo increase centre, which consists of several
light red coloured stones just projecting above the ground.
These they clean and rub in a similar manner, sitting around
them on the ground.
The mythical origin of this ceremony is associated with
the legend of a crow man, who had two wives, one of whom
was also a crow and the other a pink cockatoo. Of these
two women the former had a black mark on her body and the
latter a pink and white one. For this reason their husband
preferred his pink cockatoo wife, which made the other wife
jealous. Each day the two women went collecting ants' eggs.
They used to work some little distance from each other, and
the crow woman, speaking in an undertone, used to make
^ For the wilburti and ladya ^ P"or the />c7r^a;/tf season sec above,
seasons, see above, p. 72. p. 72-
^ R. Piddington, op. cit. p. 3S6.
86 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
disparaging remarks about the pink-and-white mark on the
other woman's body. When the pink cockatoo woman, not
having heard what W'as said, asked her to repeat it, the crow
woman said that she had merely asked if she had obtained
clean ants' eggs. This was really a pun on the words oili
(clean) and larli (white). The crow woman had used these
words, in a disparaging tone, in reference to the mark on the
pink cockatoo woman, but when asked to repeat her words
she claimed to have used them in reference to the other
woman's ants' eggs, asking whether the food collected was
free from the black wax which sometimes contaminates it.
One day the crow w^oman had a large piece of wax in her
hand. She threw this at the pink cockatoo woman, breaking
her leg and killing her. She then returned to their camp,
and when her husband asked her where his other wife w^as,
she replied that she had remained in the bush. After waiting
several days the man became suspicious, and on searching
he found the dead body. This he buried. Returning to
the camp, he said nothing to his wife, but built a large
fire into which he threw her. She cried out " wah " and so
perished.
The tracks of the pink cockatoo woman are represented
in the sky by the four bright stars of Corvus. The tracks of
the crow women may be seen as the four brightest stars of
Delphinus.^
At Birdinapa Point there is a centre for the increase of
flounders. This consists of a soft patch in the face of the
cliff and also several flat stones near by. No decorations
are worn, and women may assist. The ceremony takes place
during the marul season, during which the fish are speared at
low water upon the sandy flats near Birdinapa Point. The
ceremony, w^hich belongs to the Panaka-Paldjeri moiety of
the tribe, consists of scraping the face of the cliff with a
cockle-shell and brushing the flat stones near by. There is
no detailed myth associated with the centre, which was
established by an old man called Birmalang who made a
camp near by.^
Near the centre for the increase of flounders is a pair of
' R. Piddington, op. cit. pp. 387 sq.
^ R. Piddington, op. cit. p. 3S9.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 87
long boomerang -shaped heaps of stones. They represent
two eels, and the ceremony for the increase of eels is per-
formed there during the zvilbiiru or ladya season. Men
perform the ceremony, but women may watch. No decorations
are worn by the performers. The ceremony, which belongs to
the Panaka-Paldjeri moiety of the tribe, consists of re-
arranging the stones and the cleaning of the surrounding
ground.
The ceremony is associated with the myth of Wolabung
and Yerinyeri, who made a camp nearby in bugari (mythical)
times. The eel was one of the forms adopted by Wolabung
in frightening Yerinyeri.
Near the Lagrange Bay Telegraph Station there is a
centre for the increase of crabs, at which a ceremony is per-
formed during the ladya season. The ceremony belongs to
the Burung-Karimba moiety of the tribe. The performers are
men, but women may watch. The performers are decorated
with white mud. The rite consists of cleaning out a hole in
the ground. While this is done one man stands with a spear
poised in the air, pointing towards the hole. The object of
this is that he may be ready to spear the spirit crab as they
come from the hole by virtue of the ceremony.
Before concluding his account, which in the preceding
pages I have closely followed, of ceremonies which the Kar-
adjeri perform for the increase of totems, Mr. Piddington
describes three ceremonies which are not of the usual type,
and all of which are performed at Birdinapa Point, the best
place on the coast for all kinds of fishing.
To begin with the ceremony for producing calm weather,
at the time of the equinoctial tides, natives go " dry " fishing
from Birdinapa Point. They wade out upon the reef collecting
pearl shells or spearing fish. The original use of the pearl
shells was to make pubic pendants and other decorations,
but now they are collected in very much larger quantities for
purposes of trade. For " dry " fishing still water is desirable,
since wind not only creates waver on the surface of the water,
but also stirs up mud, and so makes it hard to see under the
water. To meet this difficulty the natives perform a ceremony
whenever a strong wind interferes with the fishing. This
ceremony is designed to produce a condition of calm. The
88 TOTEMISM IN A VSTRATIA BK. I
ceremony, which is under the direction of the Panaka-Paldjeri
moiety of the tribe, consists of cleaning out a hole and hghting
a fire in it. On this are placed bushes. In the meantime the
zvorara (old man) Ingardukuran, who established the cere-
mony in mythic {bugai'i) times, is addressed and requested
to produce a condition of calm. Beyond the establishment
of the ceremony by Ingardukuran, who subsequently became
a tree near by, there is no detailed myth connected with this
ceremony.
Near one of the fish-traps in which fish are caught at
Birdinapa Point is a stone, visible at low tide only. Here the
Karadjeri perform a sacred ceremony during the marul season
which is designed to increase the supply of fish, particularly
salmon, in the fish-traps. During the day while the tide is
out men clean away the sand from under the stone. In the
hole so formed they bury a conch shell full of human blood
and also a bull-roarer which has been smeared with the same
liquid. This will, they think, when the tide comes in, attract
the fish to the fish-trap where they will be caught.
At Birdinapa Point there is a large rock visible at low tide
which represents Djui (the bower bird). Underneath this
rock Djui is believed to sit upon a bull-roarer. By rubbing the
stone and asking Djui for shell, a plentiful supply can be
obtained. The rite differs from ordinary increase ceremonies
in that all that is needed is for one man, of either moiety, to
rub the stone. This is the usual preliminary to " dry fishing
"
or " shelling," at the equinoctial tides, as described before.
The ritual, and of course the stone, were originally said to have
been established in mythic (dugarz) times by Djui. It should
be noted that though Djui belongs to the Burung-Karimba
moiety of the tribe, he is said to have died at this place,
that is, in the country associated with the Panaka-Paldjeri
moiety of the tribe.
^
With regard to the totemic mythology of the Karadjeri
tribe, Mr. Piddington tells us that " of the many Karadjeri
myths of bugari (mythic) times, the majority are totemic; that
is to say, they describe the activities of beings who were
neither men nor animals, but exhibited alternately the char-
acters of both of these types of creature. As this is an
^ R. Piddington, op, cit. pp. 391 sqq.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 89
extremely common feature of Australian mythology it is
unnecessary to deal with it at length.
" Some of the myths, however, concern mythical beings
who are not identified with any natural species, and hence
cannot be described as tQtemic. But one must remember that
in the minds of the natives the two types of myth form part
of an integrated whole—the legendary history of the ab-
origines. The sacred myths, which may not be told to women,
are concerned mainly with cosmogony, and especially with
the institution of initiation ceremonies. . . .
" We shall at this stage confine our attention to those
totemic myths which have not already been described in
connection with increase ceremonies. Very frequently, in
concluding the recounting of a myth, informants offer a
moralistic interpretation of the story. Where these were
given they are appended as traditions established by the
myths in question. The most general form of the inyths is
as follows. The story opens with a certain state of affairs
existing ; this is indicated by the natives by describing one
day's events and then repeating them for successive days,
the series of activities being repeated in exactly the same
form over and over again. For the sake of space this has
been abbreviated by describing the events as occurring every
day or on a number of occasions. Given, then, this existing
state of affairs, a denouement occurs, generally resulting in
the death of the characters. By this means some element of
either the natural or the moral order is established. This is
the most general form of the myths, though variations some-
times occur. A common feature of the Karadjeri myths is an
association with specific landmarks, stones, hills, creeks, or
even trees, the traditional institution of increase centres being
a particular example of this principle.
" Among the Karadjeri the mythology of the heavens
plays an important part in the beliefs connected with im-
mortality. It is generally believed that the sky consists of
a dome of a very hard substance (rock or shell), the stars
representing the bilyur (spirits) of dead men and women. As
to the stars themselves there is considerable difference of
opinion ; some say that they are just globes of light, but
others believe that they are individual nautilus shells with the
90 TO TEMTSM IN A US TRA LIA b k . I
fish alive inside them. On the latter view shooting stars are
caused by the death of the fish and the dropping of its shell.
" There are, however, two other theories as to shooting
stars. According to one of these a shooting star indicates
that an important man has died, the direction of the meteor
indicating where the death has occurred. The other version
is that shooting stars represent fragments of the dead body
of Marela (a bugari culture hero) falling from the tree in
which he w^as buried. Every star in the heavens represents
the bilyur of some deceased man or woman, while the more
important stars and even constellations represent certain
objects and persons mentioned in the myths. . . .
" Not only bilyur of the mythical characters are repre-
sented among the stars, but also certain of their possessions,
such as hitting or digging sticks and, in several cases, their
tracks.
" The natives think of the various stars in terms of the
time of year at which they are clearly visible (that is, when
they appear well above the horizon) during the early part of
the night. They realize, however, that they are, generally
speaking, actually visible for a total period of several months,
and can generally give with a fair degree of accuracy the
date of the heliacal rising of any star, showing that their
observation of the heavens is not confined to the early even-
ing, though apparently this is the time of the night which is
most important to them." ^
The following stories may be taken as examples of
typical forms of legend found in Karadjeri folklore.
Myth of Pardjida and Langgur.—Pardjida (the native
cat) cut off the hair of Langgur (the opossum) wath a sharp
tomahawk. Langgur made a stick for winding wool and
using it, proceeding to make opossum wool thread from his
own hair. All night he twirled the stick, the noise of which
prevented Pardjida from sleeping. Every day Pardjida went
out hunting and every night Langgur kept him awake by
twirling the stick. One night Pardjida grew so angry that
he struck Langgur on the chest with a fire-stick of bandaragu
wood. This wood is of a yellowish-brown colour. Langgur
then took a burning stick of dyigil wood and struck Pardjida
^ R. Piddington, op. cit. pp. 393 sqq.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 91
with it, the ash marking his body with white spots. The
ash of this wood is said to be highly corrosive ;
if mixed with
tobacco and chewed, it burns the tongue. So to this day
male opossums have a brown mark on their chests and
native cats are covered with white spots. And to this day
the spirit of Pardjida may be seen in the sky as the star Alpha
of the constellation Cygnus and that of Langgur as Capella
in Auriga. The tracks of Langgur may be seen as several
pairs of faint stars between Auriga and Taurus.
The Myth of Djarabalbal.—Djarabalbal (top-knot pigeon)
was a woman who used to go out gathering food, but on
these excursions she spent a great deal of time tying her hair
up into a pointed knot. So she never collected much food,
and this caused a good deal of comment among the men at
the camp. One day they followed her and saw the way in
which she wasted her time. They frightened her and she flew
up into the sky, thus founding the tradition that women should
not waste their time when they collect food, and also that they
should not arrange their hair as men do. The spirit of
Djarabalbal is represented by one of the smaller stars in the
constellation Auriga.
The Myth of Bardarangalu.—A mother Bardarangalu
(snake) was always sick, every day and every night. Every
night she died, and her two sons buried her. The boys used
to go away and leave her in the ground, and she would shed
her skin and follow them to their camp. The old woman's
grave was near the water, and one day a frog came out of the
water and saw the dead woman in the ground. He sat on
the grave and croaked as frogs do several times, at the same
time shifting his body about as he sat, and after this the old
woman could not rise again. This was the origin of death.
The Myth of Ngulbarlii.—A goanna Ngulbarlu was
sharpening his stone axe. He heard a noise, the sound of
waves. He went to see what was happening, and found that
the salt water had come right up to the bush. He picked a
stick and threw it into the salt water saying, " Go back,"
and the water receded. The man said, " Don't come up here
any more, this land belongs to man." So now the tide
comes over the land for a limited distance only.
The Myth of Tyanga.—A man Tyanga (oyster) had a
92 TO rEMISM IN A USTRA LIA B K . I
wife who lived in her shell all the time, though he went out
every day hunting. At night he used to return bearing food,
and ask her to get him water and to make a fire for him.
She said nothing, refusing to eat the food which he offered
her. As she remained in her shell, which was very hard, all
the time, he never could approach her. One night there was
a very heavy fog. The woman came out of her shell and
went away. She sat under a tree some distance from the
camp. Tyanga, having awakened, broke his wife's shell for
the first time and found that she had gone. Looking around
he saw her tracks and followed them. Presently he heard
a sound which was made by his wife sitting under a tree
knocking two sticks together. Knowing it was his wife he
went to the tree and sat there wath her. Now women bustle
about and tend to the needs of their husbands, though
oysters always remain in the same place.
The Myth of Yindjiyindi.—Yindjiyindi (mantis) used to
talk all the time, thus producing pundur (south-east wind).
The result was that the wind used to blow throughout the
year. A number of people wanted to kill him on this account.
They used to cut him up into small pieces and leave him to
die. But he always recovered and continued to make a
south-east wind. One day a man threw a spear at Yindji-
yindi's scrotum. The spear struck its mark and killed him.
That is why the south-east wind now blows during the cold
season only, and not all the year round as before.
The Myth of Ruduriidur
.
—A boy Rudurudur (wasp) used
to rest under a tree during a hot summer day, and he would
dig at the foot of the tree to obtain water. One day he
could find no water and died of thirst ; nowadays wasps find
water in the branches of baobab trees, and if a blackfellow
sees a wasp he knows that there is water in some form
near by.^
The totemism of the tribes inhabiting Dampier Land has
been investigated and described by Professor Elkin. Dampier
Land is in the district of Kimberley, West Australia. It is
a peninsula, roughly triangular in shape on a southern base
about one hundred miles long extending from Broome on the
west, to the vicinity of Derby on the east, and with its apex
^ R. Piddington, op. cit. pp. 395 sqq.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 93
at Swan Point, just about one hundred miles north of the
base. It consists of a comparatively well-watered coastal
strip, and of a drier inland region, known as the Pindan,
which is in some parts about forty miles or more in breadth.
Along the coast there are springs, and water can also be
obtained by digging wells, many of which have been made
by the natives.^
The tribes of Dampier Land are the Djukan in the neigh-
bourhood of Broome ; the Ngormbal centring on Barred
Creek ; the Djabera-Djaber around Carnot Bay ; the Nyul-
Nyul from Beagle Bay to near Pender Bay on the west and
across the peninsula to King Sound, where its northern and
southern points are respectively Murdeh Point and the swamp
at the mouth of the Fraser River ; the Bardi in the northern
corner of the peninsula above the Nyul-Nyul ; and the
Djaui on the inhabitable islands at the mouth of King Sound.
In these tribes the local organisation is of the usual
Australian type. Each tribe is divided into a number of
patrilineal hordes, each of which occupies a definite sub-
division of the tribal territory, called bor, the term for camp,
and has its headman and " second man." Rules of hunting
and trespass apply here as elsewhere. A person is free or not
of any particular bor according to his kinship relationship to
its members. Further, the local organisation plays an im-
portant part in the arrangement of marriages : a wife's
mother is always sought in a distant bor.
The local organisation is associated with the belief in pre-
existence of spirits. Spirit children, nagarlala, sometimes
referred to as rai, invisible, live in definite centres such as
water holes, springs, trees and rocks on the sand and in the
sea. The medicine-men are said to know, through dreams,
the whereabouts of these places. The entry of a spirit-child
into its mother's womb is always associated with a dream in
which the father sees or " finds " it. Further, according to
Nyul-Nyul informants, the spirit-child tells the father what
its name is to be. It also tells the man that he is to be its
father, and asks him where his wife is. Having given the
' A. P. Elkin, " Totemism in N.W. Oceania, vol. iii. No. 4 (June 1933)
Australia (The Kimberley Division), p. 435.
II : The Tribes of Dampier Land," in
94 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA bk. I
information to the spirit-child, he may then take it in his hand
and put it down near his wife, or on her navel. It will enter
her womb, though not necessarily at once. At the time of
the quickening, the woman tells her husband that a child has
entered her womb. He then remembers finding the child in
the dream.
The tribes of Dampier Land also believe in reincarnation.
Some babies, at least, are believed to be the dead reborn.
Such a spirit-child comes to the father in a dream, explaining
that it wishes to be born again, this time as his child, and
giving the name it previously bore. The father then washes
the spirit-child and leaves it in fresh water for three days,
after which he puts it near, or sends it to, his wife. This wash-
ing is reserved for spirits which are being reincarnated.
During the period between incarnations, the spirit sojourns
at one of the spirit-centres. Some spirits, however, are not
reincarnated ; they are said to go to Loman, from whence
there is no return.
The discussion of " spirit-children " beliefs leads on to
the problem of totemism in Dampier Land, to which we now
turn, but we must first notice that these tribes believe in the
existence of local spirit-centres in which pre-existent spirits,
and spirits to be reincarnated, sojourn, and to w^hich they
may return, that is, if reincarnation is to be their lot. This
means that a person belongs to his father's horde because his
father " found " him as a pre-existent child, or perhaps we
should put it, because he, while still a spirit-child, sought
out and appeared to a man of the horde-country in which his
spirit-home was situated.
The existence of totemism among the tribes of Dampier
Land has been denied by Professor Klaatsch, who in-
vestigated the tribes in 1906 and again in 1907,^ and Professor
Elkin came to the same conclusion after spending three months
in 1927-1928 among the Nyul-Nyul and Bardi, in the north
of Dampier Land. But on his return to Broome in the south
of Dampier Land he discussed the subject of totemism with
two Bardi men and with several Nyul-Nyul and Djabera-
^ H. Klaatsch in Zeitschrijt fur Cited by Professor Elkin, op. ctt.
Ethnologie, xxxviii. (1906) pp. 793- p. 440.
794, and in xxxix. (1907) pp. 636-644.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 95
Djaber men, and came to the conclusion that so far as these
informants are concerned totemism does exist in these three
tribes. I will cite his conclusion in his own words :
" The
Bardi men definitely associated the '
finding '
or dreaming
of the spirit-child with the totem, just as the Karadjeri do. . . .
My Nyul-Nyul and Djabera-Djaber informants probably did
the same, but I have no definite information on this point.
In all three tribes a father '
finds '
in a dream a spirit-child,
often, and indeed mostly, in the form of some article of food,
fish, animal, and so on. This species is generally and accord-
ing to one informant always the totem of the father's local
horde-country, bor. Any irregularity is caused by the father
being on a visit to another '
country '
at the time he finds the
child, who is thus associated with the totem of that '
country.'
There seems to be only one totem associated with each bor,
and so the totem, like the local country, is exogamous ;
but
there is inore in it than this, for according to the Bardi
informants, persons of the one totem, though of different bor
(and apparently more than one local horde can belong to the
one totem), cannot intermarry. A special tabu operates in this
connection. Members of the same totem who are at the same
time members of the one '
country '
or horde, act towards one
another in accordance with their kinship relationship, but
members of the one totem who belong to different hordes,
have to observe a tabu towards one another somewhat like
the parent-in-law tabu. There must not be any joking
between the men of the one bor and the women of the other,
while the men must not '
growl '
one another. The function
of the tabu seems to be to prevent any behaviour that might
lead to the possibility of marital relationships between two
bor of the one totem, and to preserve the harmony which
should exist between totemites even though they belong to
different localities. Thus each horde is a totemic clan-horde,
or else is part of a totemic clan. A child is told what his
totem is, and sooner or later he will see it in a dream. All
informants said that there was a tabu on eating the totem.
The Bardi added that a man must not kill his totem, but the
Nyul-Nyul and Djabera-Djaber said that the totemite might
do so." ^
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. j)p, 443-446.
96 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
" The information which I obtained from the Bardi, Nyul-
Nyul and Djabera-Djaber men after my return to the Broome
district from the northern part of Dampier Land, shows that
as far as they were concerned totemism did exist. This,
however, raises a problem : Why did both Klaatsch and
myself fail to find it around and north of Beagle Bay ? I am
still inclined to think that it was not there, though the spirit-
children beliefs are such as one finds in tribes which possess
totemism. But if this be so, why should the members of
these tribes whom I met later have totems ? The answer
may be that they had learnt totemism while associated with
Djauor, Nygina, Karadjeri, and Djukan men around and in
Broome, and had realized that the totemic beliefs of these
men fitted into the pattern of their own spirit-children and
rai beliefs, and into the scheme of their local organization.
If this be so, it would be very interesting to study the process
by which the new beliefs have been, or are still being acquired.
The whole problem should be tackled in the field, and I
believe that if the Bardi and then the remnants of the tribes
in order from north to south were studied, more especially
making the approach from the point of view of spirit-children
and rai beliefs, it would be possible to decide whether totemism
is an old or recent institution amongst these tribes, and,
indeed, whether it really exists at all among some of them." ^
Passing in a north-easterly direction from the northern
point of Dampier Land by way of the Buccaneer Archipelago,
we enter Collier Bay. The shore of this bay is occupied by
Wurara tribes, whose territory extends from its northern head-
land to the lower course of the Prince Regent River on the
north, and includes the lower waters of the Sale River and
all the valley of the Glenelg. The eastern neighbour of the
Wurara is the Ungarinyin, which was investigated by Pro-
fessor Elkin in 1928. The southern boundary of the tribe is
the King Leopold Range. The territory of the tribe extends
eastward and inland well over a hundred miles, and includes
country east of Mt. Barnett and the Hann River, as well as
some of the Gibb River valley. On the north it includes the
upper reaches of the Sale and the Calder Rivers, and the
southern bank of the upper Prince Regent River. This large
* A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 451-452.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 97
area, probably eight or nine thousand square miles, is occupied
by about a thousand Ungarinyin. The country is for the
most part very rough, and has not yet been fully explored.
In many parts it is inaccessible except on foot, though a few
pack-horse tracks have been made. It is, however, a good
territory for the native Aborigines, being provided with
abundance of fresh water, fish and other denizens of the salt
and fresh waters, marsupials, reptiles, birds and various yams
and fruits.^
The tribal territory is divided into a number of horde-
countries, tanibnn. Each horde has its headman, who has
the usual powers associated with this position. He can stop
fights, even going so far as to break the spears of two men
who are disturbing the peace. Visitors who wish to hunt in
the horde-country must obtain his leave, and as usual the
other elders of the horde consult together when a member of
the horde is to be married.
The country of the horde (the tambun) is patrilocal, patri-
lineal and exogamous. The local solidarity of the hordes is
so great that the term applied to any one male member of a
horde by a member of another horde is applied to all its
male members, irrespective of the generation to which they
belong, and this is also true of the females of the horde.
Hence a person speaks of his relationship (son, father,
sister's child, etc.) to a horde rather than to individuals.
The question " What is your relation to such and such
'
country '
?
" receives for answer a kinship term.^
The Ungarinyin possess three sorts of totemism : moiety,
local, and dream totemism. This also holds good for the
Wurara, whose local organisation, kinship system, "increase"
ceremonies associated with rock galleries of paintings, and
mythology are similar to those found in the Ungarinyin tribe.
In the Ungarinyin tribe the hordes are divided between
patrilineal moieties, which are named avialad and ornad, re-
spectively. The former is also called vara or djulwun, the
hill kangaroo, and djungun, a night bird, while the latter's
other names are walamba, the long-legged kangaroo, and
wotor, a bird associated with rain. The designations yara
and walamba are the commonest. Professor Elkiii thinks
^ A. P. Elkiii, op. cit. p. 452. ^ A. P. Elkiii, op. cit. pp. 452-453
H
98 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
that the members of a moiety do not observe any special
attitude towards the species whose names it bears, but he was
informed that a person does not eat any of the totems of the
hordes of his moiety that are situated near his own horde.
This is an expression of moiety soHdarity, which is also
evident in arrangements at a large camp where members of
the hordes of one moiety are separated by some natural
feature, such as a gully, from the members of the hordes of
the other moiety. The dual organisation is also manifested
in a general fight, members of one moiety taking sides against
those of the other moiety, even to the extent of a man's fighting
against his sister's son, a thing which he would not do in
ordinary camp life.^
The name of each tavibtat (horde-country), apart from
the usual suffix -e?-i, -neri, or -nari, is also the name of some
animal, plant, bird, or, in a very few instances, of some other
object or phenomenon such as rain. When Professor Elkin
had obtained the name of a man's horde-country, and asked
his informant the meaning of the name he w^ould be given
another native name for the species or object designated by
the name of the horde-country, or else a description of it, or,
if the informant knew sufficient English, the English name.
In a few cases collected by Professor Elkin the name of the
animal or other object connected with the " country " is not
the name of the horde-country, but probably there is or was
another name for the horde-country, w^hich is the name of
the object or natural species associated with it. Now the
name of the object or native species denotes not only the
horde-country but also the members of the horde, or rather
those who belong to it by right of birth. In other w^ords it is
their totem, their kian or mate, as they say. The prefix bre-
is generally used to make the name of the totem denote the
totemites ; thus gural, w^hite cockatoo, becomes bregiiral,
the people of the white cockatoo totemic clan.
Some horde-countries have more than one totem. This
probably explains why such " countries " have more than
one name. There are no doubt myths to explain all the cases
of multiple totemism, and, indeed, of hordes with only one
totem also. Professor Elkin gives examples of both cases.
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 453-454.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 99
Thus to explain the case of multiple totems Professor Elkin
cites the story of the grasshopper and the short-tailed iguana.
Once upon a time a grasshopper flew from Djaningari, an
Ungarinyin horde-country of which it is the totem, to Indal-
gam, a Wurara horde-country, where it found an iguana,
named yadara. He cut off the iguana's hind legs and tail,
after which he became a piece of stone about 8 inches long ;
this is kept in the secret storehouse, a cave. The myth ex-
plains the stumpy tail of the iguana, while the serrated shape
of the grasshopper's legs probably suggested that they were
suitable instruments for the operation. The short-tailed
iguana and the grasshopper are both totems of Indalgam.
Again to explain the case of the single totem Professor Elkin
cites the story of the corkwood tree. Yanialba, the corkwood
tree, belongs to Waiangari horde-country, because it was
there that it first grew in the Lalan or long-past heroic period.
The men of the time tried to make spear-throwers out of the
zvaia, skin, that is, the bark of this tree, but finding that it
was not strong enough, they used the wood instead, and found
it suitable.^
The totem of the horde is usually a species or object which
is very plentiful or, maybe, conspicuous, in the horde-country,
such as white stone used for making spear-heads in Unalauni,
niarara, bamboo, in Marara ; ilwaian, a water-lily in
Ilwaian ; and so on. The totems are mostly edible species ;
others are useful objects, such as certain kinds of stone out
of which the " laurel leaf " type of spear-points, which are
peculiar to Northern Kimberley, are made by pressure
flaking ;
trees, the wood of which is used for various purposes
such as making spear-throwers, shields or throwing-sticks ;
bamboo, used in making spear-shafts ; a cane used for
lifting honey out of a hole, and certain bushes, landad,
because they are eaten by emus. A number of heavenly
phenomena are included amongst the totems, including the
sky, various stars, moon, sun, rain, wind and darkness. It
is interesting to notice that with regard to the last class of
totems, with the exception of rain, none of them was giv'en to
Professor Elkin as what may be called the primary totem of
the tambtm—the totem which gives its name to the "country."
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 455.
100 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA bk. I
It is possible to see or imagine that various natural species
are especially plentiful in certain districts which, therefore,
may be considered to be the hiving-off centres of those species.
Similarly, rain may seem to come mostly from a particular
region, but generally speaking these heavenly phenomena
are totems for all hordes alike. As, however, they are of
vital importance to the tribe, they must be brought into its
ritual life, and amongst the Ungarinyin, as elsewhere in
Australia, this is done on the principle of division of responsi-
bility and the co-operation of the hordes. Thus, for ritual
purposes, these celestial phenomena are divided amongst a
number of hordes, being added, as it were, to their responsi-
bilities for the increase of earthly species and objects.^
This brings us to another aspect of Ungarinyin totemism.
It is not only a system of naming the hordes, and incidentally
of expressing and preserving their strong local solidarity,
and a means of binding hordes together, by a co-operation of
system of ritual responsibility which is concerned with the
maintenance and increase of native phenomena and species ;
it is also a method classifying Nature. When Professor
Elkin made enquiries regarding species not mentioned in any
of the genealogies he had recorded, he found that many of
them were considered as additional totems of various hordes,
either in the Ungarinyin or neighbouring tribes. But if, as
sometimes happened, his informants could not assign an
object to any particular horde, they would usually give its
moiety. Thus everything worth noticing is classified, at
least into moieties, and Professor Elkin thinks that if fuller
inforniation were obtained it would be found that they are
classified into hordes. Such an aspect of the totemism of the
tribe accords with the fact that no two hordes have the same
totem.
^
Professor Elkin appends a list of the hordes and totems
which he was able to record. They number 45 in all. From
among them I will select a few of the more important or
interesting. They include turtle, the fish barramundi, white
cockatoo, the porcupine, the hill kangaroo, wild dog, emu,
water goanna, grasshopper, the crow, the flying squirrel,
crocodile ; the red fruit of the pandanus, the gum tree,
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 459-460. - A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 459.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES loi
bamboo, the lily, the water-lily, the ground nut, the cane
for lifting honey out of holes, white stones used for spear-
heads, basalt, the shield, the throwing-stick, the wind, the
sky, darkness, rain, sun, the moon, and the morning star.^
The totems belong to the hordes, that is, they are local,
and as we have seen are probably explained by myths. Here
it is only important to notice that a person belongs to the
horde of his father, and incidentally inherits its totems, its
utigttd or lalan, that is, its association with and share in,
the long-past mythological age of the culture heroes. But
we must also consider local totemism in relation to a belief
in pre-existence and theories of conception.^
A father always " finds " his child in a dream and in
association with water, either in a water-hole or in the falling
rain. Even if, in the first instance, as sometimes happens,
he " finds " his child in water in waking life, he will see it
in a dream later on when he is sleeping in his camp. In his
dream he sees the spirit-child standing at his head, and catches
it in his hand, after which it enters his wife. If he be away
from his camp at the time of this dream, he ties the spirit-
child in his hair, and so brings it home to his wife. This takes
place at the time of the quickening of his wife's womb. The
" finding," however, is not haphazard. It is always connected
with different spirit-centres which are ungud (mythical) ;
thus, spirit-children belong to the mythical age. This is
what natives mean when, for want of better command of
English, they say that the pre-existent spirits are made by
ungud; when they are asked for further explanation, they
can only deny that this action occurs up above, " on top,"
on the sky, in spite of the fact that the rain comes down
from above, and that the rainbow-serpent, also called ungud,
is said to bring the spirit-children. They feel that having
stated that the matter is twgud, nothing more need be said.^
Now wondyad or rainbow-serpent is also the terni for a
large quiet edible snake or python, which, however, is also
mythical, that is, U7igtid, and as such is said to be the kian, or
mate of ivondyina. Now wofidyina, rainbow-serpent, is the
main subject represented in pictures painted by the natives
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 450 sqq. ^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 461.
2 A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 460.
I02 rOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
in caves which constitute their picture galleries, as will be
described later. One of these native picture galleries is
situated in each horde-country. In these wondyina is
always depicted with a nose and eyes and a special head-
dress, but without any mouth. Primarily he represents the
source of rain, and if his painting is retouched rain will fall,
though this should not be done until the beginning of the
normal wet season. It does not seem to matter in w^hat
horde-gallery the painting be thus retouched ; rain will
come. But one wondyina, the one in the gallery of the
Kalarimgeri horde which has for its totem rain, is of special
importance in this respect. The headman is able to usher in
the wet season by simply dreaming that he has visited this
rock-gallery.
Wondyina, however, is causally connected not only with
the rain, but also with the increase of natural species, and
particularly of the human race. The belief is that if a
species, the increase of which is desired, be depicted on a
wondyina gallery, the increase is assured. But this is not
done at haphazard. The species painted on the gallery of
any horde are the totems of the horde, and, of course, the
painting and retouching is done by fully initiated members
of the horde, for the galleries are secret. Thus, the life and
increase of any particular totemic species are causally associ-
ated with a wondyina. Hence the rainbow-serpent {won-
dyina) may be a generalised life-giving power which is
symbolised by the special zvondyina paintings in each cave-
gallery. On the other hand, the wondyina at the gallery
of each horde may be a different culture-hero of the ungud
(mythical times) to be compared with the various i?iura-niura
heroes of the mythical age of the Diera tribe, or the altchera
heroes of the Aranda alchirunga. This point, says Professor
Elkin, has yet to be definitely settled.^
The female wondyina gallery which Professor Elkin
visited was said to be definitely associated with the increase
of the human race. To touch up the painting results in the
going forth of spirit-children to be " found " by fathers and
incarnated through the wives. In this case the mechanism
for the increase of mankind is the same as for the increase of
^ A. P. Elkin, op cit. pp. 461-462.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 103
other natural species. Other wondyina, whether classed as
feminine or not, are also regarded as sources or guardians of
spirit-children. A particular wondyina may be asked in a
dream for a spirit-child, or a wondyina might offer one to a
man as he is dreaming. Moreover, some zvondyina are said
to be more liberal than others in this regard. Thus, the pre-
existent human spirits are intimately related to the wondyina
represented on the rock-galleries of the various horde-
countries, but only a full knowledge of the tribal mythology
will determine the nature of this relationship, whether, for
example, zvondyina brought the spirit-children to the place
in the tingiid (mythical time), or whether they are emanations
from him. However that may be, each person has his ungud
place or spirit-home, which is near water, and though the
place may be some distance from the zvondyina gallery, yet
there is a causal relationship between the two.
An individual, therefore, belongs to his tambun (horde)
and possesses its totems, because his pre-existent spirit was
associated with the wondyina of that tambun. Generally his
ungud place, or spirit-house, the water where his father
" found " him, is situated in his father's horde-country, but
it might be in another ; in the latter case, a person does not
seem to have any claim over this tambun, or over the ungud
centre in it where he was " found." If this be correct, his
connection with the imgud time, also called lalan, is through
the cave-gallery of his own horde, with its zvondyina and
totems which are represented on it, and through the various
ungud sites of his tatnbun, including his own spirit-home and
the " homes " of the spirits of the totems of his horde.
^
Professor Elkin's informants differed with regard to the
existence of a prohibition on killing or eating the totem.
The taboo does exist in the tribe, but it seems to be
stronger in the northern hordes. Most informants said that
they ate their totem if it happened to be a desirable food.
But he was told by a good informant that a person only eats
the totem of the hordes of his own moiety, which are situated
comparatively far off from his own horde country. He
explained that he could eat white cockatoo, a totem belonging
to a horde of his moiety, because it was totem of a salt water
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 463-464.
I04 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. l
horde on the Prince Regent River, whereas he belonged to a
highland horde at the head waters of the Sale River.
^
The totems of the horde are depicted on its ivondyina
gallery. Professor Elkin often noticed, especially in the
Wurara tribe, that when they were asked for their totems,
informants seemed to be thinking of the cave-paintings of
their hordes, and to be giving the names of the species or
objects depicted there. This is, of course, natural, seeing
that it is the duty of the men of the horde to maintain the
supply of those species which are its totems, and one way,
probably the main way, of doing this, is to paint them on
the horde-gallery. The same fact was made apparent when
the question concerned the moiety and ta7nbun (horde) of
natural species. Thus when Professor Elkin was trying to
ascertain whether various plants and animals which he
had not recorded as horde totems really were such, or
whether they were divided between the moieties and tiunbun
in any way, he noticed that informants seemed to think along
the lines of cave-galleries. For example, on being asked
about the kurrajong tree, they said that it belonged to Djeladgi
place in Djilia tanibu7i^ in the southern part of the \^\^rara
Tribe, and that it was painted on the Djeladgi gallery, and
so made all kurrajong trees grow.^
The increase of the various valuable animal and plant
species and the maintenance of the regular operation of
various natural phenomena, like the sun, moon, stars, wind,
and rain, is assured by means of the paintings in the various
wondyina galleries. But the Ungarinyin also possess some
ceremonies for the increase of the natural species akin to
those of the talu type, but his imperfect knowledge of the
language prevented Professor Elkin from getting much
information about them. Thus one totem of the Bangudu
horde on the north-eastern border of the tribe is bangudu, a
small kangaroo. According to a lalan or heroic age rule, a
hunter having killed one of these creatures must swing it
round so that the blood is sprinkled about. This is supposed
to produce plenty of bangudu. Another ceremony for the
increase of kangaroos has been introduced from the south-
east. A table-like structure of wood is erected in a secret
1 A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 464-465. * ^ p Elkin, op. cit. p. 465.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 105
place out of sight of the uninitiated. The men then dance
round it and sing a song during the afternoon and all one
night. Professor Elkin was also informed of a song which
is sung by both men and women for the increase of the honey
which is gathered from crevices in the rocks. As the women
are mainly responsible for gathering honey, it is natural that
they should take part in the singing.^
In the Ungarinyin tribe each person has at least one, and
perhaps two or more dream totems, called by the natives
yarin. Professor Elkin did not ascertain how a person
obtained his dream totem, but he thinks it probable that he
obtains it in the same way as the Wurara tribe, where a
person's dream totem is the horde totem or totems of his
mother's brother. This method of descent is very interesting,
for it implies a double inheritance of totems. A man's
horde totem is his son's horde totem, but his sister's child's
dream totem.
^
In the division of Kimberley to the east of the territory
of the Ungarinyin tribe, is the district of the Forrest River,
which flows into Cambridge Gulf. The following are the
tribes and hordes of the Forrest River District, the Yeidji (or
Yeithi) tribe on the northern side of the tidal waters of the
river and on both sides for some distance about these ;
it
consists of three large horde-countries or gra : (i) Mararan
(which means big river), the hilly country just up the river
from Forrest River Missions ; (2) Umbalgari, a large plain
of about 100,000 acres, now occupied by the Mission ; and
(3) Yura, on the east of this plain, between the Patrick and
Lower Lyne Rivers and the coast of Cambridge Gulf.
The Arnga tribe on south side of the lower reaches of the
Forrest River consists of three hordes. The Kuru, com-
mencing nearly opposite the Mission landing, the Barangala
to the south-east, and the Wolma near the mouth of the river.
The Andedja tribe, called the Kular on the Mission, a
word meaning west, consists of a number of hordes, of which
the Ulangu and Kilangari on the south of the Arnga and the
Almbalu on the west of the Mararan horde, have been closely
connected with the Mission for some years.
The Wembria, on the north side of the upper part of the
1 A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 466. 2 ^\ p Elkin, op. cit. p. 471.
lo6 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA BK. I
Forrest River, has four hordes. The Wola, near Mararan,
and in order north, the Wona, Wixial, and Alnbo.
The Wirngir is a small tribe or sub-tribe on Malamljuna,
the corner of land north of the lower Lyne River ; west of
the Wirngir is the Wulu, another small tribe, and north of it
the Mande. The Bemba tribe is west of these, and outside
of the Forrest River district.^
The horde-country or gra is patrilineal ; a person has the
right of residing and hunting in his father's horde-country
and bringing his wife to live there, even if his spirit-centre
be outside its boundaries. In the latter case, a person has the
right of residence in two horde-countries, his father's, and
also the one in which his father " found " his pre-existent
spirit. The term gra is used to denote both the horde-country
of a person and his spirit-home, just as the term nura is used
in the Karadjeri tribe. The spirit gra is the place where a
person's pre-existent spirit " sat down " beside water, where
he was seen by his father, and from which he came when he
passed into his mother at the time of her quickening. It is a
small natural feature, always associated with water. The
father might see the spirit-child in the water when he is
walking by, or when he is swimming or fishing. Thus he
might spear a fish or a crocodile, but when he brings his catch
to land, he sees a spirit-child instead, so he does not take it
home, for it is not really a fish or a crocodile. But he might
carry the spirit-child home in his hand and put it beside his
wife, whom it enters, or it might crawl along like a turtle
to the woman who, in her dream, throws dust at it, but does
not prevent its entry. The spirit-child always enters the
woman while she is asleep, but there is no certainty as to the
point of entry."
Each person has three totems : a moiety totem, a clan
totem, and a dream totem.
Moiety Totetn.—Each tribe is divided into two patrilineal
exogamous moieties, or tun, named grauunda, native com-
panion, and panar, turkey. Everybody is either grauunda
or panar, belonging to the tun (moiety) of his or her father.
As a man's mother's brother always belongs to the opposite
tun, moiety, and as he must marry mother's brother's
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 471-472. ^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 472.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 107
daughter, the exogamy of the moieties is automatically ob-
served. Grauunda (native companion) is credited with insti-
tuting this law of exogamy between the moieties. A long time
ago, when this bird was a man, he saw a crow-man married
to a crow-woman. He asked the crow who the woman was,
and received the answer that she was his sister, not " cousin."
Grauunda (native companion) then chased them away and
made the law that grauunda must marry panar, thus pre-
venting marriage between brother and sister. This is appar-
ently the basis of the division of the totem clans between the
moieties. Professor Elkin did not find anyone who had the
crow for his or her totem. Both native companion and turkey
are plentiful on the large plain at Forrest River Mission, but
the natives say that they very seldom manage to spear the
latter, and only occasionally the former. There is no taboo
against killing or eating the moiety totems. Neither are there
any ceremonies to increase these two species.^
Cla7t Tote^n.—Each individual has a clan totem, called
naragu, which is the same as his or her father's. The patri-
lineal descent of the clan totem holds whether the father first
saw the person's baby-spirit in his own spirit gra, somewhere
else in his own horde-territory, in another horde-country, or
in another tribal territory. Nor does the place of birth make
any difference. Members of the one horde can have different
tun and naragu, that differentiate moiety and clan totems.
Further, two persons belonging to the one spirit gra or
country can have different clan totems. The clan totems are
divided between the moieties, and are therefore exogamous
A man belonging to one clan may, in theory, marry into any
clan of the opposite moiety.
As each horde gra or country is patrilineal, and as the
clan totems are also patrilineal, we should expect each horde
to be a local patrilineal totemic clan, and Professor Elkin is
inclined to think that this was formerly the case. But
generally speaking, this is not so nowadays. The explana-
tion may be that the present hordes are really amalgamations
of numerous smaller ones. Another possibility lies in an occa-
sional instance of matrilocal marriage, that is, the possibility
of a man living with his wife in her gra or territory ; thus an
1 A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 473-474.
io8 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
Upper Lyiie River man is living with his Umbalgari wife
in the northern part of her horde-country, and is Hkely to be
its headman on the death of the present headman, to whom
he is related as wife's brother. There has been a good deal
of intermarrying between neighbouring hordes and tribes,
and therefore such circumstances as these could arise.
^
Death, especially the death of a man's father, also tends
to bring about the same results, for on his father's death a
man must leave the paternal gra or country until the cold
season following the next wet season after his father's death,
when he returns for the final burial ceremonies. During the
interval he lives, as a rule, in the country of his mother's
brother, or in the horde-country in which his spirit-home is
situated, if that be outside of his father's horde-country. He
might then make that gra or territory his own. Incidentally
even if he only sojourn there during the period of mourning,
he might, during that time, find the pre-existent spirit of his
child in a spirit-centre somewhere in it. This child then
would have a right to live there and to regard it much as his
own, that is, his father's horde-country. In such ways another
totem is brought into a horde-country.^
The Yari or Dream Totem.—Every person has a dream
totem ; it does not impose any restrictions on eating, killing,
or marrying. It does nothing directly for oneself by way of
w^arning or in any other way. A child is told by his mother
or father what his yari (dream totem) is, the parent having
dreamt of it. To dream of a person's yari means that the
person will soon be seen.^
Rites for the Increase of the Totems.—-These are per-
formed by the headman of the horde in which the spirit-
centre of the species is situated at the time of the year the
species normally does increase. No one else is present, and,
as in many Karadjeri rites, there is no singing. The headman
just calls out the names of the places in which the increase
of the particular species is desired and can be expected.
The Ceremony for the Increase of Water-lilies. —At the
beginning of the rainy season the headman goes to a heap of
stones about 3 feet high and 7 feet in diameter at the bottom
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 475. ^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 478.
* A. P. Elkin, op. cil. p. 475.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 109
and 3 or 4 feet at the top, at Inderi, on a little hill in Um-
balgari country. The heap of stones has obviously been placed
there by a man a long time ago. No explanation of its origin
is given. The stones are of various sizes, but most of them are
about 4 inches or a little more in diameter. The officiant
lifts out a few stones from a crater-like hole in the centre of
the heap, after first pulling up some grass which has grown
there during the previous twelve months. He then throws the
stones in various directions, calling out as he does so the
names of various spots, water-holes, and billabongs in the
tribal territory.^
Ceremony for the Increase of Poison-bark.—^A similar rite
is performed for the increase of poison-bark in the latter part
of the rainy season, at a similar heap of stones at Oyamiri in
Mararan horde-country. The efficacy of this heap is ex-
plained by the following myth : Dyarniu, the jaberoo bird,
gathered a heap of poison-bark at this place, but lumbari, a
white river bird, stole it. A fight between the birds followed,
in which burning fire-sticks were thrown about. One of these
hit the river bird in the eyes, causing the red mark which is
around them, while another that hit the jaberoo made his legs
red. After the fight the heap of bark became a heap of
stones, which when ritually thrown about causes the poison-
bark trees to increase.^
Ceremony for the Increase of Rain.—The rain-maker of
the Yeidji tribe belongs to the Yura horde. He is now (1933)
a very old man, and will be succeeded by his son. He only
makes rain during the hot weather when rain is expected.
There are two rituals.
(i) With a whitish stone which may vary in size but is
not too large to be held in the hand, he rubs a stone of any
kind standing alongside of fresh water, saying burubram,,
and then blowing the dust, says, " Plenty rain." This rite
is obviously of the same type as those already described for
this tribe.
(2) He takes a rain-stone, and mixing it with some of his
own grey hairs and some flesh from the abdomen of an
iguana, wraps the lot up in some dry grass and puts it under
a rock in a fresh water-hole.
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp, 478-470. " A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 479.
no TO TEMISM IN A USTRA LIA B k. I
In both cases the rain-maker camps away from his wife,
does not speak, and only drinks dirty water until the rain
comes ; this is said to come in two days. The ritual is only
performed in his own horde-territory {grd). The Lyne River
tribes also have a rain-maker, who is a very old man and a
headman. If there is too much rain, the rain-maker pulls
out some of his grey hairs, and puts them in the fire. He
blows the smoke, and thus stops the rain.
These increase rites are clearly associated with the exist-
ence of the tribe, but they are not connected with the totemic
clans like the intichiu^na or talu ceremonies of the Arunta
(Arunda), though they are definitely localised and connected
with the horde-country in which they are situated. The
headman of the horde performs the rites connected with all
the increase sites in his gra (territory), though none of the
species concerned is his naragu, totem. The myth explaining
the poison-bark increase site suggests that there is a myth
explanatory of every rite performed for the increase of a
totemic species. Thus the rites, except perhaps those con-
nected with rain-making, possess all the features of the usual
talu ceremonies except that there is only one performer, and
that his totem is not the species being increased. There is
the site, which is the spirit centre of the species, the myth, the
action and words, and the species to be increased, but the
associated group of totemites is missing, their place being
taken by the headman of the gra (territory).^
The tribes of the Forrest River and the Lyne River of the
Kimberley District, which were visited and described by
Professor Elkin, were afterwards visited and described in 1934
by Miss Phyllis M. Kaberry, under the auspices of the
Australian National Research Council. She spent the months
from May to October among the natives. During that time
her headquarters were at the Mission Station, except for
eighteen days which she passed on a camp roughly sixty
miles to the north of the Mission.
Professor Elkin has already described the local distribu-
tion of the tribes. On the southern side of the Forrest River
are the Kular, Aruga, Ballalangnari and Welyamiri tribes.
The two last have an eight-subsection system, whilst all the
1 A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 480-481.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES in
others are divided with moieties alone. Each horde comprises
a number of totemic and exogamous clans. The tribes act
together in warfare, and members assemble during the " dry
"
season for large inter-tribal meetings. As a rule, however,
quarrels involve one or two hordes of one tribe against a
horde or hordes of another.^
The horde is the most important unit in the local organisa-
tion, and the totemic clans, except for the small part they
play in indirectly regulating marriages, are subordinated to
the larger grouping. The position of headman is well-
defined ; he is spoken of as " owning " the country, its pools,
resources, and rock-paintings ;
in that capacity he is held
responsible for carrying out the ceremonies performed to
increase the totemic species. He directs social activities, and
visitors must ask his permission before they may camp in the
country. He " legislates " for the horde ; one such instance
was that of the headman of the Kular Mamalhidi, ordering
that there was to be no more gashing of heads at mourning
ceremonies. This order was passed on to the neighbouring
headman and the order was observed. Finally, he exercises
certain judicial functions. He deals with cases of marital
infidelity, and, with or without the help of the older men,
sees that the offender is punished.^
The social organisation includes the tribe, the horde, the
totemic clan, the spirit-homes, and last but not least the
family, which in everyday social and economical activities is
a clear cut unit. The family or family group occupies the
one camp.^
Since Professor Elkin has already discussed totemism in
North-West Australia in detail, the following account of
Miss Kaberry is concerned only with the additional informa-
tion which she gathered on the subject. She tells us that
totemism of this region is not the clearly defined phenomenon
of Central Australia, and at first sight the ritual attitude
towards Nature is not apparent ; ceremonies for the increase
of the totems are not carried out by the totemites ; there is
no prohibition against killing and eating the totem ; nor is
^ Phyllis M. Kaberry, " The For- vol. v. No. 4 (June 1935), PP- 4°^
rest River and Lyne River Tribes of sqq.
North-West Australia," in Oceania, - P. M. Kaberry, ()/i. <//. p. 41 I
.
112 •
TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
it connected with the buil-roarers. Nevertheless the totem
possesses an economic, social, and local significance.^
Perhaps the subject may be best approached from the
side of mythology. In the remote past, the winigili time,
animals, birds, and reptiles were men, living a life like that
of the blacks to-day. All the totems were human beings
except kundi (wild plum) and waina (sugar bag), which Miss
Kaberry never heard referred to as being people, though they
existed then. At some point a crisis arose, generally a dispute
followed by a fight, and they were all changed into their
respective species. The children of these, e.g. garangula
(native companion) and wolaniba (kangaroo), or djidja (wild
turkey) or wieri (emu), became wola^fiba, or djidja or zvieri
men, that is, men possessing these particular species as their
totems or naragus. The ancestors were like men in every
respect, but possessed certain attributes which enabled them
to turn into animals or other natural species.^
Of the moiety totem there is very little further to be said.
Certain totems such as kangaroo {wolaniba), blue-mountain
parrot (balinjiri), poison-snake (ne?nera), belong to the
garangula (native companion) moiety, while alligator {jeiuar),
sugar-bag {zvaina), and goanna {niangar) belong to the totem
of the opposite moiety djidja (wild turkey). The moiety totem
thus embraces a wider kinship group than the class totem ;
it brings into prominence the father's line of descent as
opposed to that of the mother. This is clearly shown by the
fact that it is sometimes called alungur, or by the term for
father. The moieties, beyond their indirect regulation of
marriage, play no part in social activities, though the latent
rivalry or antagonism between the two finds expression in
mythology.
Some of the clan totems are common to all the hordes of
the tribes of North Kimberley, but generally, if we view a
horde's totems collectively, they are seen to comprise one or
more elements different from those of another horde. Certain
totems
—
ivolamba (kangaroo), yVw^r (alligator), zfczm^z (sugar-
bag)—appear in most of the hordes, while balinjiri (blue
mountain parrot), and naniara (white cockatoo) figure most
frequently in the northern tribes. Exceptions to this rule may
1 P. M. Kaberry, op. cit. p. 425. * P. M. Kaberry, op. cit. p. 426.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 113
probably be traced back to intermarriage, and in a few cases
to the error of the informant. There is a certain tendency
towards locaHsation of the totems, and Professor Elkin has
raised the question whether there was a closer connection in
the past. He has pointed out that logically each horde could
have been a patrilineal totemic clan. Amongst the Gangalu,
Jinanu, Mande, Djuri hordes, na^nara (white cockatoo),
balinjiri (blue-mountain parrot), nioromborla or orli (kan-
garoo), and jewar (alligator) appear most often. Indepen-
dently of these results, two of the old men who were head-
men of the Lyne River tribes gave Miss Kaberry these
as the " big nagarus " or chief totems of each horde. If
the hypothesis be accepted that the horde was originally a
single totemic clan, then it follows that the horde would
originally have been exogamous. When Miss Kaberry
pointed this oiit, the old men agreed, and said that a man
of the Wirngir horde married a woman of the Djuri horde,
and that a man of the Mande horde married a woman of
the Gangalu horde. If we accept this hypothesis it establishes
a definite relationship between the totemic clans and the
ceremonies for the increase of the totem, for the horde carries
out the ceremony for its own chief totem.
^
At present the totemic clans regulate marriage in that
they are exogamous, and of course they provide a kinship tie.
On the Mission you may frequently hear the expression
" Norah's crowd," or " Robert's mob," that is, a group
possessing a totem in common.
Lastly we must consider the dream totem. It includes
some objects which are never clan totems, such as the rainbow
serpent ; certain species of fish, ghosts, pandanus seed, evil
night birds and spirits, blossoms, and oysters. Most of these
belong to tribes on the southern side of the Forrest River.
Amongst the northern tribes a man generally hands on his
dream totem to his children, and as a rule it is the clan totem
belonging to the opposite moiety. Just as a man's moiety
and clan totems establish his relationship with his father's
line, so a man's dream totem would in a large number of
instances establish a relationship with his mother's line of
descent. The former is a recognition of social and ritual
1 P. M. Kaberry, op. cit. p. 427 sq.
I
114 TO TEMISM IN A US TRA LIA B K . I
ties, the latter of blood ties. Amongst the southern tribes the
dream totem embraces a much wider range of objects, and
may be correlated with a different organisation, namely the
possession of an eight-subsection system in the Wolyamiri
and Ballalangnari tribes. Dream totems which have never
been clan totems predominate roughly in the ratio of eighty
to sixty-three.
Those objects and species which are not found as totems
amongst the Forrest River tribes, for example stars, moon,
sun, crab, and so on, are said to belong to tribes situated on
the west or east. Finally even non-totemic species were
considered by the blacks to stand in a kinship relation to one
another and to some of the totems.^
To this account of totemism Miss Kaberry subjoins a
long genealogy, on which she comments as follows :
" Not only is this illustrative of the drawing of the outside
world into the social organization, but on the one hand the
association of showers, hailstones, clouds, lightning, and
thunder reveal a rudimentary idea of classification or causa-
tion ; and on the other it is significant that descent is traced
back to firstly the moiety totems, garangula (native com-
panion) and djidja (turkey), and secondly to the spirits of
the dead {juari) and to Wolara, who was responsible for
the institution of initiation and other features of social
life."
2
Ceremonies for the Increase of the Totemic Species. —We
have seen that Miss Kaberry has already mentioned the cere-
monies performed for the increase of the totems and their
co-ordination with the local grouping. She now adds that
such important items of food as kangaroo, fish, black plum,
lily seed, and sugar-bag have their talu or increase centres
in most of the tribal territories. An unusual feature of the
rites is that the wife of the headman with her sister performs
the ceremonies for the increase of lily roots and sugar-bag at
Inderi for one year, and her husband does it the following
year. She also helps him to perform the rites for the increase
of fish, poison-bark, and alligator at Malera. This is an
important deviation from the Australian custom, whereby
the woman as a rule is relegated to the position of onlooker
^ P. M. Kaberry. op. cit. p. 430. * P. M. Kaberry, op. cit. pp. 430-431.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 115
at most. More extraordinary still is the practice of the wife
accompanying the headman to watch him touch up the
painting of alligator with red ochre to ensure an increase of
that species. There are two galleries of rock-paintings in the
Umbalgari country, one at Jandangi and the other at Wunda.
In these galleries there are paintings which represent jt^ari
or spirits of the dead and totems. They are not taboo to
women, though only a few of the old women know their true
function. Furthermore Miss Kaberry was informed that at
Nyurilu in Gangalu country, old women were permitted to
touch up the painting of Brimurer (the rainbow serpent) so
that those spirit children who were taken from the pools
should be replaced in it. No taboos were observed by the
officiants at these rites, but every individual reserved to him-
self the right to perform ceremonies for the increase of
kangaroos, and when he does so he eats no meat at the time,
and refrains from washing himself and from sleeping with
his wife. Since the women help to increase all the species
except kangaroo and possibly white cockatoo, the exclusive
right claimed by the men to increase kangaroos does not
coincide with the general division of labour between the
sexes for which the qualification would seem to be that of
age. So far as Miss Kaberry could ascertain, these practices
do not obtain amongst the southern tribes, though she was
told that among these tribes in zvinigili (mythical) time
women used to perform the increase rites along with their
husbands.^
The headman and his wife perform the ceremonies for the
increase of most species at the beginning of the summer,
about September or October, and before the rains set in. In
most cases the rite is very similar. For wild plum, fish, alli-
gator, wallaby, zvolara (spirits), reed nuts, and the sun, it
consists in rubbing a stone with a smaller one. These stones
do not necessarily suggest the shape of the species, though a
certain part may be said to represent the eye, tail, or genital
organs. Again the site may be a kind of cairn, and the man
or woman either digs with a stick, or casts the dirt out or
strikes stones together to break them, murmuring " make
plenty come up." He names the countries round about
^ P. M. Kaberry, op. cit. pp. 431-432.
1 1
6
TO TEMISM IN A USTRA LIA R K . I
where the increase is desired. No one may eat the species
till the headman or his wife gives permission.^
Miss Kaberry observes that with regard to the totems
thus supposed to be increased by the performance of the
ceremonies, "It is difficult to see the value of mosquitoes,
evil night birds, and spirits {juari), as they seem to be objects
either of dislike or fear. Mosquitoes have a negative social
importance, but there is no idea of increasing them for the
discomfiture of enemies. The motive for the increase oijuari
(spirits) does not seem to be connected with the concept of
immortality. Fear of the juari (spirits) ensures that all the
obligations and mourning ceremonies for the dead are carried
out, and fear of them serves as a deterrent to thieving. Fear
of them is thus one of the sanctions behind the maintenance
of social life. Galyidmiri, an old headman, told me that he
would not increase mosquitoes again, as there had been too
many last year. And Benmiri said the same thing about
alligators, since two blacks had been killed in the previous
year. Probably the influence of the past will prove too strong,
but the statements are illuminating in that they reveal how
deeply rooted is their belief in the efficacy of the rites. Wolara
is one of the most important spirits, and instituted most of
the ceremonies together with initiation. Although he is in
one sense their creator, he is not regarded as standing outside
the cosmogony, and the blacks talu (perform ceremonies) for
him as well." ^
" The point arises to what extent these practices are
magical or religious. The stipulation that the performer
should be either an old man or an old woman indicates the
importance of the rite, and perhaps the supernatural or
spiritual forces at work. In so far as the rite appears to bring
about automatically an increase in the species, and in so far
as the conceptions of sacrifice, propitiation, or petition are
absent, there is little to differentiate this ceremony from the
garden magic of Melanesia. But it goes further than this in
the recognition that not only do other tribes talu (perform
rites) for the remaining species and objects, but that some
of these include objects which are definitely anti-social, e.g.
mosquitoes and evil night birds. If we turn to their mytho-
^ P. M. Kaberry, op. cit. p. 432. ^ P. M. Kaberry, op. cit. p. 433.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 117
logy again we see that all these things existed in Winigili
(dream or mythic) times but later changed into stone. It is
only by rubbing these stones as Wolara first did, that they
will come alive again each season. By this means Wolara
provided for the continuance of the natural order in the future,
as it were. Underlying everything is the conception that the
welfare of the part is inextricably bound up with that of the
whole." 1
With regard to the mythology of the tribes, Miss Kaberry
tells us that the myths here as elsewhere provide a back-
ground for features of the cultural life of to-day. Some of
these have already been mentioned in relation to the increase
ceremonies and totemism. Some of them account for daily
activities.
In the remote past the great mythical hero Wolara
wandered about the country, camping and fighting. He
gave men increase ceremonies, circumcision, and hair-belts.
At one spot in the Yura horde-country, called Gola, you may
still see depressions where he slept wath his wife, and flung
stones about in a fight. Near this is the site W'here the increase
rites are performed for Wolara. About three miles from this
spot are some flat slabs of stone standing upright. They
are said to have been placed there by Wolara to point out
the direction in which he was travelling. He was also re-
sponsible for the phallic-stone at Galbimiri and for the cliffs
in the Wirngir horde-country, which he made out of small
stones which the spirits had thrown down from the sky. He
sent two women up to the sky, where they make turtles that
fall into the rivers and pools when it rains. Wolara stole
alligator away from the policeman bird and ran away to
Wirngir and then plunged into the sea, where he was
changed into a stone.
Another mythical being, Yingirmira, stole somebody's
wife and was pursued. He threw his fighting-stick from
west to east and opened out the hills to make plains. He
went to Nulamo and killed a kangaroo, which he tied around
his waist. A brown bird, who was a man then, took it and
told him how to carry it around his neck. They cooked it,
and both died. A similar story is related of two other birds
^ P. M. Kaberry, op. cit. pp. 433, 434.
ii8 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
who were carrying a kangaroo wrongly. Djidja (wild turkey)
said that they should remove the intestines, so Jadai gave it
to him, his mother's brother, to cook. They were all changed
into stone.
Some children were naughty, so a wind came along, and
put them in the moon. They can be seen now.
The rainbow serpent was responsible for the appearance
of allthe rivers in winigili (mythical) time, and he still makes
the tides and floods. He told the blacks to paint themselves
with white clay which they found near water, so that they
would be able to find spirit-children. An old headman
asserted that after a man had repainted the rainbow serpent
in the rock gallery, he would always paint himself with white
clay as well.
Alligator was making water-holes : he took some fire
with him ;
blue-mountain parrot snatched the fire-sticks
from him and flew away. A medicine-man saw a flock of
these birds sitting around a fire ; he stole the fire-sticks and
the birds flew up dropping fire.
The Forrest River myths explain the origin of spear-
making, the preparation of food, the finding of fire, hunting,
and prescribed behaviour towards certain relatives. The
heroes of the past lived more or less as the blacks live to-day.
There are probably many more stories, but those which have
been quoted have a common currency. The blacks were
always willing to repeat them to Miss Kaberry and were
eager to show her the places where they had occurred. They
stamp the zvinigili (mythical) time with an impression of
reality, provide a link with the past, and a sanction for the
life of the present.^
In a later article dealing with the beliefs regarding
spirit-children and spirit-centres as these beliefs are found
among the tribes of North Kimberley, Miss Kaberry has
supplemented with some fresh details Professor Elkin's
account of the " finding " of a spirit-child by the father.
Her account runs thus : "A father finds a spirit-child when
he is out hunting or fishing alone. He may spear a fish or
an animal which is near the water-hole ;
this either disappears
or is brought back to the camp by the man, cooked, eaten,
1 P. M. Kaberry, op. cit. pp. 435-436.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 119
and sometimes shared with his wife. That night he dreams
that he sees the spirit-child playing with his spears or his
wife's paper bark ; he thrusts it towards her and it enters
by the foot.
" The father may, however, actually see it in the water
on the back of Brimurer, the rainbow serpent. The spirit-
child calls out to him and asks for a mother. The man
picks it up, places it in a sapling or else in his mudere
{i.e. in his hair, which is drawn tightly back from the
forehead, bound with hair string and plastered with red
ochre). The next morning the man says to his wife, '
I bin
dreamin' spirit-child.' The woman from then on till the
birth of the child, does not sleep with her husband and
observes certain tabus in regard to the eating of fish and
meat. Some of the mission women do not practise these
tabus, with the result that their children are said by the
others to develop sores." ^
One reason why these savages so often trace the birth of
spirit-children to pools of water may perhaps be found, as
Miss Kaberry suggests, in the wild highland nature of the
country in which they live. She tells us that the belief of
the natives in spirit-children takes on a richer significance
and imaginative power because it has for its natural back-
ground a country which is intensely vivid in its colouring,
and stark in its contours beneath the blazing heat and light
of a tropical sun. The spirit centres are certain parts of the
river where clefts gash into the face of the red sandstone
cliffs that rise sheer from water's edge. They are also the
pools of permanent water which are scattered over the land.
Many of them have never been plumbed ; they are often
fringed with trees of paper bark which rise to a height of
30 or 40 feet, and abound in roots of water-lilies and fish of
all kinds. Sometimes these pools may lie 8 miles or more
apart, the intervening country being covered with long cane
grass, and the hills stony and practically bare of all vegeta-
tion. The natives travel from one pool to another, which
are camping spots and the scenes of daily life. We need
^ P. M. Kaberry, " Spirit-Children Oceania, vol. vi. No. 4 (June 1936),
and Spirit-Centres of the North Kim- pp. 394 sq.
berley Division, West Australia,"
I20 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
not wonder, therefore, that as they provide the individual
with some of the chief means of sustenance from day to day,
they should also be closely associated with the perpetuation
of the race. The blacks are bound to these pools, not only
by material tics but also by spiritual links, for they are the
homes of spirit-children.^
The totemic system of the tribes inhabiting East Kimberley
has also been investigated and described by Professor Elkin.
These tribes, such as the Djerag, Lunga, Djaru, Malugin,
Mirung, and others, have the system of eight subsections
combined with a kinship system of the Arunta (Aranda) type.
Their local organisation is of the normal Australian type.
The tribal territories are divided up into a number of horde-
countries, each wnth a headman, who gives leave to visitors
to hunt in his " country " and who usually accompanies
them in the hunt. Each of these " countries " has its name :
thus Wolergi is along the junction of the Mary and Margaret
Rivers. Roilu is the adjoining " country " up the Margaret
at Eaglehawk Crossing, and Padwadu joins both of them on
the east, being situated along the Laura River.
^
The totemism of this region is subsectional, that is, the
totem clans are divided into eight groups, and the descent of
the totem depends on the descent of the subsection. A
person, therefore, does not belong to a totem of his father's
subsection, but to one of his father's father's subsections ;
at least, that is the rule in the case of regular marriages.
But if a person's parents do not belong to a regular pair of
intermarrying subsections, he belongs to the subsection to
which his mother's children would belong if she had married
according to the general rule. Thus, the father is " dropped."
This really means that the descent of the subsections, and
therefore of the totems, is indirect-matrilineal.^
Since then the descent of the totem depends indirectly on
the subsection of the mother, the relation of a man's totem
to his father's horde-country becomes somewhat doubtful,
especially as we have reason to think that normally each
^ P. M. Kaberry, op. cit. pp. 393, Division). The Tribes of Eastern
394. Kimberley," in Oceania, vol. iv. No. I
^ A. P. Elkin, " Totemism in (September 1933), p. 54.
North-West Austraha (The Kimberley * A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 55.
CH. V THE KARADJERI AND OTHER TRIBES 121
locality belongs to one subsection only, and therefore to one
or more of the several totems belonging to that subsection.
Given patrilocal marriage, that is marriage in which the wife
leaves the place of her birth and goes to live with her husband,
the father of her children, the type of marriage which normally
prevails in Australia, we must picture a man and his son as
belonging to the one horde-country, but to different sub-
sections, and therefore to different places in that " country,"
and again, to different totems, the totems of their respective
subsections. The problem would be intensified if, as does
happen, a man of the same horde brings in a wife from an
alternate intermarrying subsection ; his children would be-
long to a different subsection and totems from that of either
the previous man or his son. Would these children then
belong to a different locality in the same horde-country, or
to a locality in another horde-country ? This problem has
yet to be cleared up, and it might be done by further field
work in Eastern Kimberley. The information at present
available suggests that a person's locality is the locality of
his own pre-existent spirit and, at the same time, is the spirit-
centre of his totem. Normally this locality is within the
country of his father. When, then, the subsection system is
developed or introduced, his subsection becomes attached to
his locality, which is that of his totem, while his father's sub-
section is attached to the father's spirit and totemic locality.
Thus it is that a man's locality, or spirit-country, and his
totem can be spoken of as belonging to a particular sub-
section, and normally there will be two subsections in a
horde-country.^
But how does a person come to belong to a particular
locality with its totem and subsection ? The answer is found
in the belief regarding conception and child-birth. A man
dreams that a spirit-child approaches him announcing that it
will be incarnated through his wife. Some time later on he
brings some food, such as kangaroo, emu, snake, fish, or
bird, to camp, but it is so fat that his wife refuses to eat it.
The bystanders, noticing that when someone eats a bit of it
he or she becomes sick, say that it is not food, but a baby.
The spirit-child enters the man's wife at the time of the
1 A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 56-57.
122 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
quickening, and when born has for its totem the animal,
reptile, bird, or vegetable that had made the taster sick.
This is apparently one of the totems of the particular sub-
section to which the child wall belong. It follows that the
father will use discretion in choosing the food to offer to his
wife after having seen the pre-existent child in a dream.
The opinion of other persons in the camp is not really
necessary, for a father often knows what a child's totem will
be as the result of seeing its pre-existent spirit in the forni
of the creature which he spears. And apparently he sees
what he is predisposed to see according to the subsectional
totemism of his tribe.
^
In the short time at his disposal Professor Elkin was
unable to get any information about totemic ceremonies, nor
is any such information recorded. Sacred sticks and stones
(churingd) are used in ceremonies other than those connected
with initiation. One of them which was given to Professor
Elkin is used in a ceremony for making rain. It is of wood,
oval-shaped and engraved. Some of them are made of slate.
A good informant told Professor Elkin that a totemite
would not kill his totem and also that it warns him of
danger. Thus if he himself sees a large kangaroo wag its
tail he regards this as a warning that some enemies are
approaching to kill him.^
1 A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 57. ^ a. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 57.
CHAPTER VI
TOTEMIC ROCK-PAINTINGS IN WEST AUSTRALIA
We have seen that some tribes in the Kimberley District of
West Austraha possess what we may call portraits of their
totems, painted on the sides or roofs of caves, and that these
paintings are made, and from time to time renewed or touched
up, for the express purpose of increasing the supply of the
edible animals, plants, and other natural or mythical beings
thus depicted. The first Englishman to discover and describe
these remarkable monuments of savage art in West Australia
was Lieutenant, afterwards Sir George Grey, Governor of
South Australia. For the convenience of the reader I will
quote his description of his first discovery, which was made
in the region of the Glenelg River.
" Finding that it would be useless to lose more time in
searching for a route through this country, I proceeded to
rejoin the party once more ; but whilst returning to them,
my attention was drawn to the numerous remains of native
fires and encampments which we met with, till at last, on
looking over some bushes, at the sandstone rocks which were
above us, I suddenly saw from one of them a most extra-
ordinary large figure peering down upon me. Upon examina-
tion, this proved to be a drawing at the entrance to a cave,
which, on entering, I found to contain, besides, many remark-
able paintings.
" The cave appeared to be a natural hollow in the sand-
stone rocks ; its floor was elevated about 5 feet from the
ground, and numerous flat broken pieces of the same rock,
which were scattered about, looked at a distance like steps
leading up to the cave, which was 35 feet wide at the entrance,
123
124 TOTFAIISM IN A I ^S TRA LL\ B K . I
and 1 6 feet deep ; but beyond this, several small branches ran
further back. Its height in front was rather more than 8 feet,
the roof in front being formed by the solid slab of sandstone
about 9 feet thick and which rapidly inclined towards the back
of the cave, which was there not more than 5 feet high.
" On this sloping roof, the principal figure which I have
just alluded to, was drawn ; in order to produce the greater
effect the rock about it was painted black, and the figure
itself coloured with the most vivid red and white. It thus
appeared to stand out from the rock ; and I was certainly
rather surprised at the moment that I first saw this gigantic
head and upper part of a body bending over and staring
grimly down at me.
" It would be impossible to convey in words an adequate
idea of this uncouth and savage figure. . . .
" The dimensions of the figure were
—
Ft. In.
Length of head and face . .20
Width of face . . . .017
Length from bottom of face to navel . 2 6
" Its head was encircled by bright red rays, soniething
like the rays which one sees proceeding from the sun, when
depicted on the sign-board of a public-house ;
inside of this
came a broad stripe of very brilliant red, which was coped by
lines of white, but both inside and outside of this red space,
were narrow stripes of a still deeper red, intended probably to
mark its boundaries ;
the face was painted vividly white,
and the eyes black, being however surrounded by red and
yellow lines ; the body, hands, and arms were outlined in
red,—the body being curiously painted with red stripes and
bars.
" Upon this rock which formed the left-hand wall of this
cave, and which partly faced you on entering, was a very
singular painting, vividly coloured, representing four heads
joined together. From the mild expression of the counten-
ances, I imagined them to represent females, and they ap-
peared to be drawn in such a manner, and in such a position,
as to look up at the principal figure which I have before
described ; each had a very remarkable head-dress, coloured
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST A USTRALIA 125
with a deep bright blue, and one had a necklace on. Both
of the lower figures had a sort of dress painted with red in
the same manner as that of the principal figure, and one of
them had a band around her waist. Each of the four faces
was marked by a totally distinct expression of countenance,
and although none of them had mouths, two, I thought, were
otherwise rather good-looking. The whole painting was
executed on a white ground, and its dimensions were :
Ft. In.
Total length of painting . . 3 6|
Breadth across two upper heads . 2 6
,, across the two lower ones . 3 i\
" The next most remarkable drawing in the cave was an
ellipse, 3 feet in length and i foot 10 inches in breadth : the
outside line of this painting was of a deep blue colour, the
body of the ellipse being of a bright yellow dotted over with
red lines and spots, whilst across it ran two transverse lines
of blue. The portion of the painting above described formed
the ground, or main part of the picture, and upon this ground
was painted the kangaroo in the act of feeding, two stone
spear-heads, and two black balls ; one of the spear-heads was
fiying to the kangaroo, and one away from it ;
so that the
whole subject probably constituted a sort of charm by which
the luck of an enquirer in killing game could be ascer-
tained.
" There was another rather humorous sketch which
represented a native in the act of carrying a kangaroo ; the
height of the man being 3 feet. The number of drawings in
the cave could not altogether have been less than from 50 to
60, but the majority of them consisted of men, kangaroos, etc. ;
the figures being carelessly and badly executed, and having
evidently a very different origin to those which I have first
described. Another very striking piece of art was exhibited
in the little gloomy cavities situated at the back of the main
cavern. In these instances some rock at the sides of the
cavity had been selected and the stamp of the hand and arm
by some means transferred to it ; this outline of the hand and
arm was then painted black, and the rock about it white, so
that on entering that part of the cave, it appeared as if a
126 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA BK. I
human hand and arm were projecting through a crevice
admitting hght."^
Three days later Grey discovered another cave with
rock-paintings in the same district. He says :
" The cave
was twenty feet deep, and at the entrance seven feet high
and about forty feet wide. The floor gradually approached
the roof in the direction of the bottom of the cavern, and its
width also contracted, so that at the extremity it was not
broader than the slab of rock, which formed a natural seat.
The principal painting in it was the figure of a man, ten feet
six inches in length, clothed from the chin downward in a
red garment, which reached to the wrists and ankles ;
beyond this red dress the feet and hands protruded, and were
badly executed.
" The face and head of the figure were enveloped in a
succession of circular bandages or rollers, or what appeared
to be painted to represent such. These were coloured red,
yellow, and white ; and the eyes were the only features
represented on the face. Upon the highest bandage or roller,
a series of lines were painted in red, but although so regularly
done as to indicate that they have some meaning, it was
impossible to tell whether they were intended to depict
written characters or some ornament for the head. This
figure was so drawn on the roof that its feet w^ere just in
front of the natural seat, whilst its head and face looked
directly down on any one who stood in the entrance of the
cave, but it was totally invisible from the outside. The
painting was more injured by the damp and atmosphere,
and had the appearance of being much more defaced, and
ancient, than any of the others which we had seen. There
were two other paintings, one on each of the rocks which
stood on either side of the natural seat ; they were carefully
executed, and yet had no apparent design in them ; unless
they were intended to represent some fabulous species of
turtle ; for the natives of Australia are generally fond of
narrating tales of fabulous and extraordinary animals, such
as gigantic snakes, etc."^
^ G. Grey, Journals of Two Ex- 201-204.
peditions of Discovery hi N.-IV. and
Western Australia (London, 1841), i.
"
G. Grey, op. cit. i. 214-215.
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST A USTRALIA 127
On the following day " we found two caves in the cliffs,
on the right hand, both of which were painted all over, but
with no regularity of pattern : the only colours used were
red, yellow, and white. The largest of the caves exceeded in
breadth and depth any others I had seen, but it was only 3
feet high ;
in this one there were several drawings of fish,
one of which was 4 feet in length ; these I copied, although
they were badly executed. The caves themselves cannot be
considered as at all analogous to those I have before
described."^
After describing the cave paintings which he had seen,
and illustrating them wath coloured plates. Grey proceeds as
follows :—
" As I never, during my subsequent travels in Australia,
saw anything at all resembling the painted caves which I
have described, I shall here add some observations on the
subject, w^hich I could not have there detailed without too
great an interruption of the narrative.
" Two other instances of Australian caves, which contain
paintings, have been recorded. The first is by Captain
Flinders, and the second by Mr. Cunningham in King's
voyage.
" The caves found by Flinders were in Chasm Island, in
the Gulf of Carpentaria, and are thus described :
" '
In the steep sides of the chasms were deep holes or
caverns undermining the cliffs ; upon the walls of which I
found rude drawings, made with charcoal, and something
like red paint, upon the white ground of the rock. These
drawings represented porpoises, turtles, kangaroos, and a
human hand ; and Mr. Westall, who went afterwards to see
them, found the representation of a kangaroo, with a file of
32 persons following after it. The third person of the band
was twice the height of the others, and held in his hand
something resembling the ivhaddie or wooden sword of the
natives of Port Jackson.'
"^
" The second instance is taken from Mr. Cunningham's
MSS., and is contained in the following extract :
—
The south and south-eastern extremes of Clack's
^ G. Grey, op. cit. pp. 217-218.
^ Flinder's Voyages, ii. 158; G. Grey, op. cit. p. 258.
128 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA bk. i
Island (north-cast coast of Australia) presented a steep,
rocky bluff, thinly covered with small trees. I ascended the
steep head, which rose to an elevation of 1 80 feet above the sea.
" The remarkable structure of the geological features of
this islet led me to examine the south-east part, which was
the most exposed to the weather, and where the disposition
of the strata was, of course, more plainly developed. The
base is a coarse, granular, siliceous sandstone, in which large
pebbles of quartz and jasper are imbedded : this stratum
continued for 16 to 20 feet above the water : for the next
10 feet there is a horizontal stratum of black schistose rock,
which is of so soft a consistence, that the weather had
excavated several tiers of galleries ; upon the roof and sides
of which some curious drawings were observed, which
deserve to be particularly described : they were executed on
a ground of red ochre (rubbed on the black schistus), and
were delineated by dots of a white argillaceous earth, which
had been worked up into a paste. They represented toler-
able figures of sharks, porpoises, turtles, lizards (of which I
saw several small ones among the rocks), trepang, star-fish,
clubs, canoes, water-gourds, and some quadrupeds, which
were probably intended to represent kangaroos and dogs.
The figures, besides being outlined by the dots, were decorated
all over, with the same pigment, in clotted transverse belts.
Tracing a gallery round to windward, it brought me to a
commodious cave, or recess, overhung by a portion of the
schistus, sufficiently large to shelter twenty natives, whose
recent fire places appeared on the projecting area of the cave.
" Many turtles' heads were placed on the shelves or
niches of the excavation, amply demonstrative of the luxuri-
ous and profuse mode of life these outcasts of society had,
at a period rather recently, followed. The roof and sides of
this snug retreat were also entirely covered with the uncouth
figures I have already described.
" As this is the first specimerv of Australian taste in the
fine arts that we have detected in these voyages, it became me
to make a particular observation thereon : Captain Flinders
had discovered figures on Chasm Island, in the Gulf of
Carpentaria, formed with a burnt stick ; but this performance,
exceeding a hundred and fifty figures, which must have
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST A USTRALIA 129
occupied much time, appears at least to be one step
nearer refinement than those simply executed with a piece
of charred wood. Immediately above this schistose is a
superincumbent mass of sandstone, which appeared to form
the upper structure of the island." ^
After quoting these descriptions Grey goes on to observe
that " there is a third instance of a cave with a figure in it,
in the district of York, in the settlement of Swan River ;
but in this case, the species of circle which is drawn on the
cave, or rather scraped into it with a piece of stone, may
represent anything or nothing ; in fact, it is no more than
any idle or thoughtless savage might have executed, with-
out any fixed design whatever. The only other vestige of
drawing contained in the cave is evidently the mere im-
pression of a hand, which has been rubbed over with red
paint with w^hich the natives are in the constant habit of
bedaubing themselves, and has then been pressed in on the
wall." 2
In 1927-1928 Professor Elkin visited and devoted eleven
weeks' study to three sets of cave paintings in North Kimber-
ley. He has described what he saw of them as follows :
" One of these galleries is situated on the southern side of
Walcott Inlet about seven miles on foot from Munja Station
houses. The site is called Beleguldo. The country is very
rough, consisting of sandstone ridges, residuals and gullies.
Most of the paintings have been executed on the vertical face
of the western side of one of the residuals and are sheltered
from the weather by an overhanging ledge. The rest are
situated on the roof of a low cave which extends back about
30 feet from the wide entrance immediately under the front
paintings. The roof of the cave is only from 18 to 24 inches
above the floor. The cave paintings are near the entrance.
The cave is divided into two parts, that on the left being the
deeper. The one on the right has a second entrance, namely,
from the south-west. Human bones, painted with red ochre
(' to keep them clean '), have been deposited in both parts of
the cave. Those in the left side, w^hich extends back from
the feet of the large rock-face painting, have almost crumbled
^ King's Voyages, ii. 25. Quoted by Grey, op. cit. pp. 258-260.
^ G. Grey, op. cit. pp. 260-261.
K
1 30 TO TEA!ISM IN A USTRA LIA B K . i
away, but those in the right-hand division, extending back
from the head of the same painting, are much firmer. It is
a common custom finally to place the bones which have been
dried on the tree-platform, cried over, and then carried
about by one of the '
parents,' in a '
picture-cave.' . . .
" As the mass of rock which contains the '
gallery '
is
surrounded by other large residuals, the outer paintings
cannot be seen until the traveller is within about 1 5 yards of
them. The effect is then very startling. It is easy to under-
stand Sir George Grey's amazement when he first saw
similar paintings a little further north. The paintings on
the roof of the cave can only be seen by crawling along the
floor and then lying down on one's back. Kangaroo ticks
add to the memories of such an exploit.
" I shall describe the paintings at this site in three
divisions : (i) Those on the rock-face. The most striking of
these is a large man, about 13 feet from the sole of the foot
to the top of his hair, depicted horizontally along the rock-
face. (Figures of this kind are called zvondjina in the
language.) He has eyes and nose but no mouth. His face
is partly surrounded by a horse-shoe shaped head-dress.
Two small persons of the same type are painted on the body
of the large one, representing his children. Two small
women, about 2 feet in length, are painted to the right and
above the head of the large man. Their head-dress is the
same as his. Their breasts and genital organs are clearly
depicted. Four more similar figures can still be seen to
the right of the main picture. They were about 3 feet long,
but have now almost completely faded away. Originally
there were also two heads under the large one. The head,
breast, and outstretched wings of an eagle-hawk are painted
just above the neck of the main figure, and some '
plains
wallaby '
feet are also represented. Some small round rings
near the feet of the large figure represent a ground fruit,
nalgo.
" Other features may also be noticed. The breadth
across the face, head-paint, and hair of the large figure is
38 inches. What is said to be the beard commences at about
the level of the nipples, 31 inches from the nose, and is 22
inches long by 7 inches broad. The left hand and arm have
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST A USTRALIA 131
faded out. The right hand is provided with 5 fingers, the
right foot with 7 toes and the left with 6. The feet on this,
as on one of the smaller figures, are set heel to heel at an
angle of 180 degrees, while the toes are represented in childish
fashion, as it were, one above the other. The large figure
and one of the smaller figures are furnished with belts. In
the former case the belt is 4 inches wide ; dots along its
centre represent the human hair of which it is supposed to
be made.
" The red-ochred band around the head of the large figure
represents the custom of applying red ochre and fat over the
top of the forehead and frontal part of the head in a strip,
and thence down the side of the face. The painting in the
picture, however, is not in correct perspective, and suggests
that a painted strip of board or other material shaped like a
horse-shoe was set round the face. But this was not so. The
little lines which project from the outer edge of this head-
paint are not the rays of the sun as has been suggested in
similar paintings, but represent the hair of the head which is
depicted by red lines with black tips. The eyebrows are
marked in the same way. The eyeballs are black, being
painted with charcoal, most of the nose is red, though the
outline is represented by a line of red applied over white
(pipe-clay), producing a salmon colour, while the rest of the
face and neck is white. The outlines of the body, legs, arm,
and feet are made with charcoal. The rest of the figure is
white ;
this applies also to the smaller superimposed figures,
except that there are red dashes on the body of the lower one.
The head-paint, hair, eyebrows, eyes, and nose of these are
similar to those of the large figure. Like it, too, and all
wondjina heads, they have no mouths. In reply to the ques-
tion why these heads are thus depicted, the natives merely
reply in a manner which shows that the representation of
mouths is quite out of the question :
' it cannot be done.'
" A figure which is said to represent lightning is painted
in red ochre with pairs of parallel lines of white dots running
across it, just above the large head. This figure is forked at
its upper or right end, and may have originally been forked
at the other end also, but the latter is indistinct. It is 42
inches long by 6 inches wide.
132 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA BK. I
" The smaller figures superimposed on the larger one are
said to represent the latter's children. The lower of these
reaches from the shoulder to the waist of the larger wondjina,
its head resting, as it were, on the latter's left breast. It is
41 inches in length. Some of the fingers and toes are missing.
There appear to be only 7 or 8 of the former and 6 of the
latter.
" The head and trunk of the second small figure lie
between the right breast and waist of the large one, while its
legs extend along the latter's right leg. Its total length is
68 inches.
" (2) The following objects are depicted on the roof of
the right-hand division of the cave : (i) the sun, represented
by two concentric circles, the diameters of which are i and 2
feet respectively ; the circumferences are represented by red
lines representing the rays of the sun. (ii) A woman whose
special organs are clearly depicted ;
her head is of the usual
wondjina type, (iii) A number of white dots which are said
to be water-lilies ; the painting of these lilies here as of the
nalgo on the rock-face is believed to make those fruits
plentiful, (iv) A snake ;
this is almost hidden under a rock-
ledge on the south-western aspect of the sandstone mass.
"
(3) A large number of stencilled hands and one
stencilled foot appear on the roof of the cave to the left of the
large figure. White clay was apparently blow^n over the hand
or foot as the person lay on his back on the floor. A kangaroo
is also painted in outline.
" While the kangaroo, the snake, and perhaps some of the
other minor figures are fairly modern, some of the rest are
certainly very old. Some of the smaller heads are almost
totally obliterated by the ravages of time, although for the
greater part they are protected from the weather. There is
no sign of the left arm of the large wondjina, and the lower
limbs of the right-hand child are very indistinct. No attempt,
however, is made to restore any of these, though in some
cases, especially in those of the large wondjina and his
children, the head, head-paint, hair, eyebrows and eyes are
certainly retouched and kept renewed. This operation should
only be done at the beginning of the wet season, for the re-
touching causes rain to fall. As a matter of fact, a black
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST A USTRALIA 133
fellow who was with me retouched the eyes of the large
wondjina with some charcoal while I was visiting the pictures,
and, strangely enough, some light showers fell a few days
later in the midst of the dry season. This did much to
strengthen the aborigines' faith, and they did not fail to draw
my attention to the cause of this unprecedented rain.
" On the floor of the rock-shelter are two smooth stones,
each resembling half an emu Q^<g in shape. They are 6
inches high and 4 inches in diameter at the base. One is
basalt and the other of sandstone. The two stones are said
to represent the testicles of wondjina. They have no doubt
been brought from a river-bed such as the Isdell where
water-worn stones of both types are plentiful. A number of
the Northern Kimberley rivers run along the junction of the
basaltic and sandstone formations.
" A second gallery referred to as w/r/ jnodaneri {i.e. a
place where a nut called zvh-i or nalgo is marked or depicted),
which I was able to visit, is situated on a sandstone residual
about seven miles east of Munja Station, on the northern side
of the Charnley River. There are several masses of sandstone
in the vicinity. The one in question has an overhanging
ledge and also a tunnel. The western aspect of the lower
part of the sheltered edge and the tunnel have been adorned
with paintings. The most conspicuous of these are a number
of heads of the wondjina type. They are similar to those
already described, and like them, lack mouths, but are
provided with head-paint. They vary in breadth from i to 2
feet. One was evidently furnished with arms and a body,
reclining on its right side, but the latter has become oblit-
erated, and indeed, another wondjina head has been painted
over it in the region of the abdomen.
" Two of the heads at least are kept '
touched up '
and
can be seen from a distance of about 50 yards. Two others in
less conspicuous places also appear to be fairly fresh. The
heads are said by the aborigines to represent wondjina
women. If they are retouched with ochre, charcoal, or pipe-
clay, women will have babies. In two places near some of
these heads there are a number of more or less round marks,
about an inch in diameter. These represent the green plum-
like fruit called nalgo. The regular supply of this fruit is
134 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA BK. I
maintained by painting or repainting representations of it on
a wondjina gallery during the wet season. Indeed, even the
'
baby increase '
female wondjina are supposed to be re-
touched only during this same season, when the productive
power of Nature is at its height.
" Just inside, on the roof of the tunnel are two outline
paintings of large female kangaroos with young in the pouch.
Two wondjina heads are painted so as to look at these
kangaroos. The latter appear to have been fairly recently
painted or retouched. This is said to be done during the wet
season to ensure the natural increase of the species.
" The gallery also contains several representations of the
sun, said to be a big sun and young suns. Each of these
consists of a series of painted rays proceeding outwards from
a circle. One of them is provided with what my natives
called a beard. It is the inner ring, and is shaped like the
representation of the beard on the wondjina of the first
gallery, already described.
" A flat-topped block of stone about three feet high
stands just in front of the gallery. Four rounded pieces of
water-worn sandstone, each about 6 inches in diameter,
which rest on top of this are said to be ripe nalgo, such as
Ungud used in the far-off times. The name Ungud is some-
times used as though it referred to a person, sometimes as
though it referred to a far-off time, and sometimes too, for
the rainbow-serpent water spirit. It is also given as the
ultimate explanation of such significant things as the obvious
artificial arrangement of stones. To the question '
What is
that ? '
the answer given is simply '
Ungud.'
"In this case, neither the stone table nor the nalgo
stones show any signs of having been rubbed, as is the case
in the Forrest River district. Further, the natives deny that
they are rubbed or used ceremonially in any way.
" This gallery, then, is obviously associated with the
increase of babies, nalgo, and kangaroo, and also has some
significant connection with the sun. The association of
wondjina with babies is not so direct perhaps as in the case
of nalgo and kangaroo, though it is not wise to be dogmatic.
Wondjina is the rain, or the rain-power. Retouching his
representation causes the wet season to function normally
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST A USTRALIA 135
with its storms and rains. Since nalgo and kangaroo then
increase, there is some causal connection between the rain
and the increase of the species. Babies are connected with
the wet season, because a man might '
find '
or see a baby in
the rain and lightning which is coming down all around
him. A normal wet season therefore increases the likelihood
of thus finding a baby. Another version runs that Ungud,
the rain, carries baby spirits whom he makes on his shoulders.
In any case, spirit-babies are always found '
along water.'
" A third set of rock-paintings which I visited is situated
high up on the sandstone cliff on the eastern side of a
gorge called Bindjibi about eighteen miles from the head
of Walcott Inlet. The sides of the gorge are so steep that
as soon as a piece of the rock becomes separated from the
cliff it rolls down into the valley, the floor of which is con-
sequently very rough. High grasses, pandanus, palms,
some eucalyptus and other trees clothe the bed of the valley,
along which a stream, small in the dry season, wends its
way in a southern direction. A native footpath passes along
the bottom of the gorge and out over the head of it leading
north towards the Sale River country. The gallery is reached
by walking up the steep rock-strewn side of the gorge to the
base of the perpendicular sandstone cliffs, which must be at
least 300 feet above the stream. The actual cliffs are 100 or
more feet in height, above which the land still rises.
" The paintings are found at the base of the cliff. No
sign of a beaten track leading up to them was noticed, nor
was there any evidence of the rock-shelter under which some
of the paintings were found ever having been used for
habitation. But the site is obviously visited from time to
time for the purpose of retouching some of the paintings.
" The gallery, which is about 30 yards in length, may be
divided into four sections, two of which are on the com-
paratively exposed surface of the cliff, while the other two
are protected by a rock-ledge. The first of the former pair
is on the extreme left or northern end of the gallery. The
second set, separated from this by a few feet, is really a
continuation of the third section which is on the perpendicular
rock-face under the ledge. The fourth is on the ceiling or
'
roof '
of the ledge, certainly about 12 feet from the ground.
136 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA bk. I
" In the interpretation of the paintings I had the assist-
ance of my guide, who belongs to the horde in whose country
the gallery is situated, and also of other members of that
horde with whom I discussed the pictures on my return to
Mundjina Aboriginal Station where they were camping at
the time.
" (i) The section on the extreme left included some
paintings which were quite out of reach and had apparently
been executed when less of the base of the cliff had become
detached and rolled down the side of the gorge.
" One of these paintings, which is out of reach, is not
unlike an anchor, but possibly represents a human subject or
a bird of some kind. Two others depict human beings, one
with an object somewhat like an inverted swinging club
projecting upwards from the top of the head. The other
has a head-dress or perhaps head-paint suggesting rays, and
what appears to be a garment extending from the neck to the
knees, unless the person was meant to have a very long body
and short legs. But as these paintings, which were in red
ochre, were somewhat indistinct, no certainty can be reached
on such a point.
" A somewhat faded red-ochre painting about i foot in
length and within reach is a remarkably good representation
of a man walking with his arms raised. The nose, chin, and
forehead, which are painted in profile, do not suggest the
usual aboriginal type of head, but this does not necessarily
imply Malay or white workmanship ;
it may have been the
undesigned result connected with w^orking on the rough
surface of the sandstone. It must, however, be admitted
that the realistic and life-like representation is certainly
superior to that which is usually seen in native galleries.
" This section contains a very strange figure in profile
W'hich suggests a human being in sitting posture with a
trunk-like or bent beak-like projection on its face. It has,
too, what appears to be three legs which are continued round
various angles of the rock-face and are eventually made to
join together. My guide, however, said that it represented
the barimbarinbua, a bird which flies along the rocks in the
gorges. This picture of it is in an awkward position. It is
now indistinct, but the outline and colours—red outlines
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST A USTRALIA 137
•filled in with yellow—can be determined with certainty
The length of the trunk, neck, and head is 3 feet, and the
width of the body 8 inches.
"
(2) The second section contains a number of the typical
wondjina or holini (rain) heads, and also an assortinent of
other subjects. The former are similar to those already
described. In some cases, white dots are painted in pairs
of lines across the horse-shoe shaped band of head-paints.
In others this is absent, but as far as I know the dots are only
ornamental and so neither their presence nor absence has
any significance. But the red curved band which is painted
over one head is called maranana and is said to represent
malneri, the lightning, as in the large wondjina in the first
gallery. The other subjects include porcupine, water-goanna,
duck, barramundi, fresh-water crocodile (four), goanna
(two), kangaroo (two), rain-bird, snake, and an eg^. One
picture seems to represent a man's head and beard in profile.
"
(3) On the wall of the rock-shelter. This section
includes in the first place a number of wondjina heads, and
representations of various objects such as the female rain-
bird, a large yam {terku}i), porcupine, native companion or
duck, a number of rings depicting a fruit, covering roughly
a square of 18 inches by 18, a snake, blossoins frequented
by bees, and a patch of yellow with dark dots representing
a piece of yellow ochre. A number of the heads measure
14 inches by 14, while some are slightly larger. In some
cases, both the face and the surrounding rock are painted
with yellow ochre, and a few of the other subjects are painted,
at least in part, in the same colour. Otherwise the colours
used are red, white, and black.
" The third section also includes three large figures.
One is a full-length wondjina similar to the one seen in the
first gallery visited. He is depicted horizontally as though
lying stiffly on his left side, and his total length is 9 feet
9 inches. The lowest part of the picture is 4 feet from the
floor of the shelter, and almost on the extreme right of the
gallery. The only additional remarks that need be made are
that, as usual, the mouth is not represented, there are only
four fingers on the one hand that is shown, that a definite
division is shown between the legs, making clear that the
138 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. i
being is not wearing a garment, and that some object appears
to project from the head-dress. This object is 9 inches long
by 2 wide, but I am not sure if it is a head-dress or merely
an independent subject drawn near the wondjina. I re-
ceived the name taramala for this, but I do not seem to have
learned the meaning of this word.
" Another of the large figures appears just inside on the
left of the shelter, on a ledge about 6 feet from the ground.
The rocks under it have broken aw^ay. It is a horizontal
figure resting stiffly on its right side. It is clearly of the
wondjina type, but presents a few variations from the more
usual form. Thus it is marked by an absence of nose as well
as of mouth, the beard commences from near the level of the
mouth, instead of from a position some distance further dowm,
and the hairs extend about four times further from the '
horse-
shoe '
head-paint than in the usual figures. These features
gave it on first glance the appearance of an owl. Otherwise
it resembles the usual type.
" The face, beard, and belt are painted in white clay, the
body and legs in red stripes parallel to the waist, on a white
ground. The different parts of the body are marked out in
red and the hairs are depicted in the same colour. The
absence of charcoal is noteworthy. A w^ondjina head is
painted across the ankles, and one foot is missing, probably
because the rock-ledge narrows at that part. The total
length of the figure is 66 inches ; the width across the eyes
and hair, 18 inches.
" Some of the men whom I consulted concerning this
picture said it was Djandad, the '
thunder man.' They
add, however, that he is not really a man, although they
describe him as long and '
skinny.' Medicine-men stop the
rain by going in a dream up above, hitting Djandad with a
stone, killing him, and so stopping the rain. Other in-
formants simply called the figure wondjina.
" The third large figure is a very strange one. At first
glance it almost suggests a mediaeval knight with his head
and shoulders in armour, and, in addition, wearing a triple-
pointed crown and holding a white w^and in his left hand.
The wand, however, appears to be an extension of his thumb.
Moreover, on the same side, not far below the elbow, there is
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST AUSTRALIA 139
a foot which appears to belong to the figure, and just below
this again is what looks like a tail. It may be that one figure,
the mailed head and shoulders, has been superimposed on
an older picture. The so-called armour is depicted in red
ochre ; below this is part of a figure in red stripes on a white
ground which stops short at the break in the rock underneath
where there is a small cave. Thus, the figure, which is
upright, may have formerly been longer. The outlines of
the different parts are in red, while the parts of the face and
forehead which are visible, the foot, arm, '
wand '
or thumb,
and the crown-like arrangement are painted in white. The
tail is yellow. The total length of the figure from the top
of the '
crown '
to the edge of the rock is 43 inches, the width
across the shoulder 16 inches, and across the bottom 17
inches.
" My informants called the figure Djandad and Kolini,
that is, they associate it with thunder and rain. The wand-
like projection of the thumb was interpreted as lightning,
and so, too, was the '
tail '
; the latter was thought by some
to be an arm vein. The three projections above the head
which some thought were ears were said to represent the sky,
and the red painting round the face and over the shoulders
rain. The part below this, which appears like a garment,
was thought to be the chest, and no further meaning was
given to it.
"(4) The ceiling or 'roof' of the rock-ledge. The
ceiling is 12 feet from the ground, and consists of sandstone.
There are a few broken rocks, under the ledge, but they are
not in such a position as to have served the painters of the
pictures on the ceiling. In former times the floor of the
shelter was apparently much higher than at present. The
lower part of the rock-wall, which is protected by the ledge,
consists here of a soft thinly-stratified material, while the
upper part is of sandstone like the roof.
" The surface of the roof is now rough, having to a large
extent fretted away, but there are still traces of a large
wondjina figure which was originally 16 feet in length. The
half of the head which can still be seen is 18 inches wide.
Traces of the feet and side are discernible. The workman-
ship and general features appear to have been the same when
I40 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA bk. i
this figure was painted as in the obviously more recent
instances. The condition of this painting together with its
position suggest that it was made a very long time ago. It
is well protected from the weather, as also is the sandstone
face on which it is situated, and yet the latter has fretted
away.
" The roof section also contains eleven stencilled hands,
some in red and others in black. On the side of the rock-
wall, just a foot below its junction with the roof, there are a
number of pictures, some of which can no longer be de-
ciphered ;
in fact, only four can be made out at all. One of
these might be a fish and another a leaf or branch. There is
also what appears to be a head in profile, painted in reddish-
black, but as the rock has partly broken away, no inferences
can be drawn from its apparent shape.
"
(5) Stone objects associated with this gallery. A round
water-worn pebble inside the shelter is said to be the kidney
of Kolini, though some informants said that it represented
his testicles. There are four similar pebbles just outside the
shelter, lying at the foot of the cliff. These have a similar
significance. With these can be associated two oval objects
like eggs, depicted on the wall of the shelter in black outline,
one above the other, with a perpendicular line running to-
gether. One informant said these were eggs belonging to
rain {Kolini), but the general opinion was that they were his
testicles.
" Two blocks of stone standing about 10 yards apart on
the steep slope below the cliff serve each as a table for a stone
slab measuring roughly 24 by i by 3 inches, and standing
on one end supported by two small stones. These artificial
arrangements were said by my guide to be '
rain,' and to have
been put there by Ungud, that is, by some one in times long
past.
" I did not have the opportunity to visit any more of these
galleries, but I am of the opinion that almost all, if not all,
of the hordes of the Ungarinyin tribe, at least as far inland as
Mount Barnett, of the Wurara tribe north of Glenelg, and
possibly, too, of the Unambal tribe on the north of the Prince
Regent River, have each a gallery." It has sometimes been
suggested that these remarkable rock-paintings have been
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST AUSTRALIA 141
created under foreign influence or even by foreigners instead
of by the rude natives themselves, but with regard to this
suggestion Professor Elkin conckides :
" Omitting the hands
and feet of the wondjina figures sketched by Grey there is
nothing in the workmanship of any of the paintings, so far
as I have seen them in situ or in photographs, which is
beyond the skill of the present natives, or indeed, of a child.
Perspective is mostly absent. This applies to the position of
the hands and feet and of the head-dress. The feet are
depicted as though the soles were in the same plane as the
legs. The number of toes and fingers varies from 3 or 4 to 7
on each foot and hand. What my informants say is the
beard commences at about the level of the arm-pits. . . .
Therefore, as far as workmanship goes, the natives of the
district could have originated this form of art.
" Is, then, the subject one that they could have invented
without outside suggestion ? Omitting the robe and the
supposed characters on the head-dress of one of Grey's
sketches and the armour-like covering on one of the strange
figures in the Bingi-bi gallery, there do not seem to be any
features in the wondjina and associated paintings that might
be supposed foreign to the ideas and practices of the natives.
Moreover, the admittedly worn state of the painting may have
caused Grey to think that the large figure was clothed in a
robe. The armour-like covering, too, which I noticed in one
case, may have been the result of a flight of fancy or of the
continued process of retouching, though, generally speak-
ing, the original patterns are closely followed and not
altered.
" The so-called halo represents the red ochre which the
natives paint in a band over the front part of the top of the
head and down the sides of the face, and the rays are simply
the hairs projecting at the back of this. The white dots
applied across the red band are so applied in actual life.
Apart from the doubtful robe, some observers think that
most of the figures are represented clothed. But it is possible
that the stripes, dots, and dashes merely represent the paint
applied to a man's body for ceremonial purposes. They do
not necessarily suggest a robe or trousers, which is not applied
direct to the skin. But, of course, we cannot rule out the
142 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA BK. I
possibility that they were originally a copy of men in shirts
and trousers."^
With regard to the interpretation of the paintings,
Professor Elkin observes that " if we cannot solve the origin
of these paintings, we can now throw a little light on their
meaning and function. The heads without mouths, with the
peculiar horse-shoe shaped head-dress, and with or without
other parts of the body, are called wondjina or, in some parts,
Ungud. The heads are the essential part of the figures.
" The first, and perhaps primary, significance of wondjina
is that of the power that makes, or which is in, the rain. If a
wondjina head be retouched, if wondjina be made '
pretty
fellow,' rain will fall, even in the 'dry,' as I have shown. The
proper time, of course, for this retouching is at the beginning
of the '
wet.' The horde of the Ungarinyin tribe which is
especially connected with rain {Kolini) is Kalarungeri, up
the Calder River. Rain is the totem of the horde. If the
headman dreams that he has visited and '
touched '
the
wondjina painting in the gallery of his horde, he tells everybody
about it. They then prepare for the rain which must come.
Thus to '
touch '
the picture in a dream has the same effect
as '
touching '
it in actual fact. But this may only apply to
the headman or other members of the rain horde. As far as
I can gather, a wondjina picture in the gallery of any horde
will bring rain when retouched.
" Connected with its significance as the power that makes
rain or through which rain can be made to come, is the
association of wondjina with Ungud, in the sense that it is
the rainbow-serpent. Sometimes it is said that Ungud, a
large '
quiet ' edible snake, is the mate or totem of wondjina,
and therefore it is painted on a gallery beside a wondjina
head. But sometimes the term Ungud is used instead of
Wondjina and as such it means rain and rainbow, that is,
the rainbow-serpent. One informant said that the rainbow
was made by Wondjad or Ungud moving about. The use
of the term Ungud also connects the paintings with the long-
past culture-giving epoch. Ungud corresponds in this sense
to the Alchera of the Arunta. Ungud carries with it an air of
1 A. P. Elkin, " Rock Paintings in vol. i. No. 3 (Dec. 1930), pp. 257-
North-West Australia," in Oceania, 274.
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST A USTEA LIA 143
finality. If a thing is U?igud, or made by Ungud, there is
either no more to be said, or else no more will be said even
if it were possible for the informant to do so. The wondjina
paintings are therefore efficacious because they are Ungud,
because they were instituted by Ungud, or in the Ungud
time.
" This leads to the further function of the paintings which
I mentioned before, namely, that the retouching or painting
of certain of them, the female wondjina, causes an increase of
babies, for Ungud, the rainbow-serpent, makes and brings
spirit-babies down in the rain to the water-holes. A man in
the Ungarinyin tribe always finds his baby '
along '
water,
and it may be in the rain as it falls. This also applies to the
Wurara tribe for some, if not for all, babies. Ungud is the
term for a person's spirit-centre, that is, the place '
along
'
water where his father found him (or her). One Ungar-
inyin informant told me that wondjina offers a man a baby
in a dream, or a man in his dream might ask different
wondjina for a baby until he receives a good child. This
informant said that some wondjina are mean, but this was
not the case with the wondjina of Wilin, Red Bull on the
Calder River. Apparently a man puts different values on
different wondjina, or perhaps we should say, on different
manifestations of wondjina. This belief incidentally as-
sociates spirit-babies with the Ungud time, and probably
behind this there is a myth about some being who brought
spirit-babies along to certain spots in each horde-territory. . . .
" The wondjina paintings have still another function.
Representations of animals and plants painted on a wondjina
gallery, with wondjina, as it were, looking on them, lead to
an increase of the species so depicted. If wondjina be re-
touched and so made active, then the species whose paintings
are under his aegis will increase. We would reason that if
rain is made, the animals and plants will thrive. The black
fellow's reasoning appears to be mystical, but I believe that
he recognizes that animals and plants require rain. I am
unable to say whether all the animals and plants represented
on the galleries are edible. I do not know of any that are not.
But such a bird as the rain-bird might be painted as an added
means of causing rain. The only other objects which I have
1 44 TO TEMISM IN A USTKA LIA b K . i
seen depicted on these galleries are the sun and a piece of
yellow ochre. These are both of great social value, the former
for obvious reasons and the latter for painting pictures, spear-
shafts, and the human body. I was told by the natives that on
a gallery or banja in Malandu horde-country, wondjina is
depicted carrying fire, probably a fire-stick, an object of
immense social importance. Dry grass and a bush-fire, that
is, grass on fire, not necessarily a devastating fire, are said to
be represented on a gallery in Dura country. Such a fire is
of social value, for the natives burn off patches of dry grass
as a means of hunting out and stupefying the game hidden
in the grass, so that they can kill it easily. The fire in this
banja is associated with a picture of a poisonous snake,
Lenyud, and with a myth according to which this snake
when caught in a bush-fire rolled himself along for a con-
siderable distance, causing, as he did so, the rough country
to become a plain. My informants said that they did not
eat this snake because it was too '
cheeky,' savage and
dangerous. In other words, it is too difficult to obtain. This
is to some extent, at least, an exception to the general rule
that all the species represented on the rock-galleries are
edible, or are usually eaten. I regret that I am unable to
give any meaning of the stencilled hands which adorn some
of the wondjina galleries. They are not mutilated in any way.
Some of theni are of great age. Both white and red are used
in stencilling, the colouring matter has apparently been blown
over the hand, which was applied to the face of the rock. We
may guess that the person who left the mark of his hand on
the gallery derived some spiritual benefit, but perhaps the
stencilling was merely a pastime.
" I was unable to ascertain if wondjina had any influence
over the spirits of the dead, but certainly the rock-shelters
which are coloured with his paintings are favourite places
for the final disposal of the bones of the dead, which have
been previously '
buried '
and dried on a tree-stage. This
method of burial and final disposal is very honourable, being
reserved for initiated men who are not so old as to be con-
sidered '
close-up '
dead. The replacing of their bones in
the wondjina banja may assure them of a full life in the world
above to which the dead are said to go. Their bones, by
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST A USTRALIA 145
being kept in such places, are in the Ungud atmosphere,
and so are in touch with their Ungud origin. This may be of
significance for the deceased.
" In conclusion, all we can say is that the function of the
wondjina paintings is to ensure the regular recurrence of the
wet season, the normal increase of edible animals and plants
and possibly also of useful objects like ochre, the influence of
the sun, and the availability of the supply of spirit-children.
Man's part is to retouch, perhaps occasionally to paint anew,
the wondjina heads and ornaments, and to paint pictures of
the desired object and species on the wondjina banja or rock-
galleries. The efficacy of the special paintings is associated
with the fact that they are Ungud, that is, belong to the far-
past '
creature '
time. Preservation of continuity with this
period is essential for present prosperity ; thus the form of
the head must not vary, and the figure, in theory at least,
should only be retouched, not painted afresh.
" It is perhaps permissible to regard wondjina as the
regenerative and reproductive power in nature and man—
a
power which is especially associated with rain. I am not sure
whether wondjina is really thought of in terms of sex. Some
of the paintings are said to be women, while other references
to wondjina seem to make them male. Then again he is also
the rainbow -serpent, and one of his functions as such is
to *
make '
spirit-children. He is apparently a generalised
power who can be thought of in different ways according to his
different functions, in the same way as the natives talk of
different wondjina at different banja, and yet admit that these
beings are '
all one,' '
all the same.' " ^
I have given Professor Elkin's description of these re-
markable monuments together with his lucid and convincing
exposition of their meaning because they throw a vivid light
on the life and thought, we may even say the philosophy, of
the rude aborigines of Australia. The first need of the
inhabitants of Australia, whether black or white, is the
necessity for the fall of rain, and to the problem of how to
procure it the aborigines have clearly devoted much thought
and pains. The centres and the records of their thought and
efforts are in these painted caverns, which in a sense may
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 273-279.
L
146 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA BK. I
be said to correspond to our churches, in which they have
given expression to their deepest needs and their desire for
communion with those spirits to whose keeping they beheve
the course of Nature to be committed. To their keeping,
too, they commit the mouldering remains of their most dis-
tinguished dead, just as wuth us the most illustrious of English
dead are laid to their last rest in Westminster Abbey and St.
Paul's. On the subject of these monuments I shall have
occasion to touch more at length in the sequel. Meantime I
would dwell for a little on the figures of wondjina who, in
the character of the rainbow-serpent, would seem to have
played so great a part in primitive Australian thought, and
who, as the supreme controller of the rain, would seem to have
corresponded to the part of Zeus in Greek mythology.
Among the natives of the Forrest River District in Kim-
berley, to the west of Windham and Cambridge Gulf, the
rainbow-serpent is called Brimurer or Ungur, and the rain-
bow is said to be made by a great water snake in stopping
rain. This snake lives in big fresh-w^ater holes, but he is
also identified with Lumiri, a large salt-water snake who
makes the tides by vomiting water, and causes them to ebb
by swallowing the water. He is closely connected with the
whirlpools which are caused by the rush of the tide in Cam-
bridge Gulf and Forrest River. Indeed he either makes, or
he is himself, these whirlpools. The explanation given for a
black fellow being drawn down by a whirlpool is that he has
touched Lumiri who has thereupon dragged him under. The
phosphorescence seen in these waters marks Lumiri's presence.
Further, the rainbow-water-serpent is the ultimate source
of a medicine-man's powers. A medicine-man is " made "
by a fully qualified practitioner, who takes the novice with
him up to the sky. One way in which he does this is to
assume the form of a skeleton and to fasten to his body a
pouch in which he places the novice who has been reduced
to the size of a very small child. Then sitting astride the
rainbow-serpent, he pulls himself up with an arm-over-arm
action as on a rope. When he is near the top, he throws the
novice out of the pouch on the sky, thus " killing " him.
Having reached the zenith, he inserts into the young man
some little rainbow-snakes, brimurer, and some quartz-
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST A USTRALIA 147
crystals which are called ungur, the other term applied to the
rainbow-serpent. It is doubtful whether the medicine-man
finds these magical objects in the sky or has secured them on
earth before his ascent ; but certainly it is believed that he
can find them on earth at the foot of the rainbow. If he sees
a Brimurer in a water-hole, he enters the pool and seizing the
snake he obtains the various magical objects which he needs
for initiating the novice into his profession. These objects are
quartz-crystals, little rainbow-snakes, and also kandila ; these^
last are said to resemble crooked teeth, and when inserted into
the novice, to make him clever.
After receiving these precious objects in his body, the
novice is brought down from the sky on the back of the
rainbow-serpent in the same way that he went up, namely
sitting astride of the rainbow and sliding or pulling himself
down hand over hand. The wizard then inserts more of these
magical objects into the body of the novice through his navel,
after which he wakes him up from his sleep of death with a
magic stone. The young man then returns to his normal size
and next day practises climbing up to the sky on the back of
the rainbow-serpent. Thus the making and powers of the
medicine-man are closely associated with the rainbow-
serpent, which affords him access to the sky-world. Small
snakes of that species are amongst the objects from which he
derives his powers, while some of the other magical substances
he gets from the rainbow-serpent in a water-hole at the foot
of the rainbow. And lest common folk should learn the
secret of the medicine man's power, or the " make-believe
"
on which it may be founded, he forbids them, on pain of
death by drowning, to enter the water-hole over which they
may see a rainbow passing.^
With regard to a belief in the rainbow-serpent among the
tribes of South-East Australia, that is, of Victoria and New
South Wales, Professor Radcliffe-Brown writes as follows :
" In 1920 I published in tho: Journal of the Royal Anthropo-
logical Institute a short paper on the rainbow-serpent myth
in Australia, in which I pointed out its widespread distribu-
tion in many parts of the continent. My studies of Australian
* A. P. Elkin, " The Rainbow- tralia," in Oceania, vol. i. No. 3, pp.
Serpent Myth in North-West Aus- 349-351.
1 48 TO TEMISM IN A USTRA LIA B k. I
beliefs had led me to the conclusion that this particular myth
is one of the most important of the mythology, and that fuller
knowledge of it is necessary in any attempt we may make to
understand the Australian conception of Nature. Recent
field researches in the northern parts of Australia have amply
confirmed this surmise.
" This myth is a belief in a gigantic serpent which has its
home in deep and permanent water-holes and represents the
element of water which is of such vital importance to man in
all parts of Australia. The serpent is often regarded as being
visible to human eyes in the form of the rainbow. The
rainbow serpent as it appears in Australian belief may with
some justification be described as occupying the position of
a deity, and perhaps the most important Nature-deity. In
some tribes it is the object of a definite cult either as part of
the totemic cult or as part of the cult of the initiation cere-
monies. In a considerable number of tribes it is the chief
source, or one of the chief sources, of the magical powers
possessed by the medicine-man. There is a very widespread
association of quartz-crystals with the rainbow-serpent, and
throughout Australia quartz crystals are amongst the most
important of the magical substances used by the medicine-
man.^
" So far as our present knowledge goes there is only one
region of Australia in which this belief seems to be absent.
Mr. Hart was unable to find any trace of it in the Tiwi of
Melville and Bathurst Islands. The Tiwi also appear to
have no medicine-man, and thus to be unique amongst
Australian tribes.
" During recent field-work in New South Wales I was
able to obtain a few further scraps of information on this
subject. It is unfortunately now too late to study the belief
in any detail in the surviving tribes of South-East Australia.
The myths of this kind were an essential part of the Bora
ceremonies for the initiation of the young men, and were
kept alive by being repeated at these ceremonies. Even the
oldest men know very little about them, and can hardly be
^ The association of quartz crystals colours (the colours of the spectrum)
with the rainbow may perhaps be due through these crystals.—^J.
G. F.
to the possibility of seeing the rainbow
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST A USTRALIA 149
got to talk about them. The Bora ceremonies have been
discontinued for many years.
" In Wiradjeri, Wongaibon, and Weilwan the rainbow-
serpent was called wawi. The rainbow itself is called
yulubirgi in Wongaibon, but is described as all the same as
wazvi. In the Kanularoi and Jualarai tribes the name was
karia, the rainbow itself being called yuhiwiri. The same
name karia also appears in the Kwiambal tribe. In the
Aneuan tribe of New England^ the rainbow-serpent was
called kabulga^i or abulgan. In the Kagai tribe there is a
gigantic mythical serpent called nunidanara, but it is not
certain that this is associated with the rainbow. This informa-
tion, however, was given to me by a woman, and it is probable
that many of the beliefs about the rainbow-serpent were
known to the men only.
" The rainbow-serpent lives in deep permanent lagoons
and water-holes. In the New England tableland it is particu-
larly associated with waterfalls, possibly because at such
places rainbows may frequently be seen. Thus I was told
that there was formerly one at Walcha in a pool below a
waterfall near where the waterfall now stands. There is
said to be one in the waterfall at Waterloo.
" Throughout these tribes there is a belief that the serpent
will devour human beings who approach its home unless they
are medicine-men. An informant in New England compared
the kabulgan to a shark.
" In all the tribes mentioned it was believed that the
medicine-men derived their power from the rainbow-serpent.
A man who had already obtained some niagical power would
go into the pool inhabited by the serpent. I was not able to
obtain any account of what was supposed to happen to him
there.
" The most interesting point, however, is that a cult of
the wawi or karia was often an element of the Bora or
initiation ceremonies of the New South Wales tribes. Many
of the sacred Bora grounds had a representation of the
serpent in the form of a sinuous mound of earth up to 40
feet or more in length. In preparation for the ceremony the
^ New England is the name of a district in the north of New South
Wales.
1 50 TO TKMISM IN A USTRA LIA B K . I
serpent was painted. A ceremony took place at the spot and
the behefs about the rainbow-serpent were explained to the
younger men who were attending the initiation. . . .
" It is highly unlikely that we shall be able to obtain any
more detailed information about the myth from the surviving
remnants of the tribes of Victoria and New South Wales.
It is clear, however, from the above, that the myth was an
important element of the native beliefs in this region. The
rainbow-serpent may be said to be the most important
representation of the creative and destructive power of
Nature, principally in connection wdth rain and water. It
is apparently as such that it played an important part
in the initiation ceremonies of some of the tribes of this
region."^
Before quitting the subject of these remarkable rock-
paintings, work of rude Australian savages, I would briefly
point to the analogy which may be traced betw^een them
and the prehistoric paintings, of a much higher type of art,
w^hich in recent times have been discovered on the walls of
many caves in southern France and northern Spain. These
paintings depict a large number of different animals, mostly
edible, sometimes attacked by men armed with bow'S and
arrows or spears. In one of them, for example, we see a
wounded bison with three arrows sticking in its flank. In
another a hunter armed with bow and arrow faces a stag
which defiantly puts out its tongue, while a little above we
see a further group where arrows have flown and a stag
transfixed limps painfully away. To add to the resemblance
of these cave-paintings to the rock-paintings of Australia it
should be said that the European paintings are often situated
in dark recesses of the caves, to which access is difficult, the
enquirer having sometimes to squeeze himself through narrow
openings or to crawl on his belly through low passages in
order to view them. Various theories have been put forward
to explain them, but the opinion to which the best authorities
seem now to incline is the one which was first put forward,
so far as I know% by my learned friend, the late Salomon
Reinach, namely, that the paintings were designed to secure
1 A. R. Radcliffc-Brown, " The Australia," in Oceania, vol. i. No. 3
Rainbow-Serpent Myth in South-East (Dec. 1930), pp. 342-347.
CH. VI ROCK PAINTINGS IN WEST A USTRALIA 151
success in the chase of edible animals by means of sym-
pathetic or imitative magic.
^
It is interesting to observe how primitive man on opposite
sides of the world has resorted to exactly the same magical
means in order to satisfy the first and most imperious of
human wants, the need for food.
To complete the resemblance of the European to the
Australian cave-paintings, it is only necessary to add that in
both the impression of an outstretched hand, whether sten-
cilled or painted, is a common adjunct of the other pictures
on the walls of the cave. It has been suggested by Professor
R. A. S. Macalister that the symbol of the hand is a charm
designed to counteract any evil magic that might otherwise
thwart and defeat the beneficent effect of the other niagical
paintings on walls of the cave. The symbol of an out-
stretched hand, whether in flesh and blood or sculptured or
painted, is still a very common charm to counteract the sup-
posed disastrous effect of the evil eye in Southern Europe.
Symbols of the same sort designed for the same purpose,
Professor Macalister tells us, are everywhere to be seen in the
peasant villages of Palestine, where they are impressed on
the walls of houses, round the doors, on store-chambers and
cattle stalls and so forth, and in a modified and conventional-
ised form tatooed on the faces of women.
^
^ S. Reinach, " L'art et la Magie," pp. 455-510; M. C. Burkitt, Our
in Cultes, Alythes et Religions (Paris, Forerunners (H.U.L., 1923), pp. 15S-
1905), i. pp. 125-135. As to the 224; id. The Old Stone Age (Cam-
European cave paintings see R. A. S. bridge, 1933), pp. 174-228.
Macalister,^ Text Book of European ' R. A. S. Macalister, op. cit. p.
Archaeology, i. (Cambridge, 1921), 509.
CHAPTER VII
TOTEMISM IN SOUTH-WEST AUSTRALIA
The evidence as to the totemism and social organisation of
the tribes inhabiting the extreme south-western corner of
Austraha is imperfect, confused, and conflicting. In these
circumstances I cannot do better than quote the account of it
given by our experienced authority Professor Radcliffe-
Brown, who has personally investigated the region and ques-
tioned the few survivors of the tribes.
" This area consists of a portion of the south-west of
Western Australia, bounded by the west coast, from about
Jurien Bay to somewhere in the neighbourhood of Cape
Lieuwin, and extending inland in the latitude of Perth for
150 miles or more. The names of the tribes that formerly
occupied the region are not known, and little is known with
any certainty about the social organization.
"It is difficult to reconcile the statements of the early
observers, Sir George Grey and Bishop Salvado, with the
later accounts of Mrs. D. M. Bates and with the scanty
information I was able to glean in 1910, and there is not
space here for a critical discussion.
" Throughout the area the natives were divided into two
exogamous moieties named Manitjmat and Wardangmat,
after 'manitj, white cockatoo, and wardan, crow. (These
moieties w^ere first recorded for this region by Mrs. Bates,
and were not recorded by Grey or Salvado.) In addition to
the moieties there were other matrilineal divisions with names
Balarak, Tondarap, Didarak, etc. The number of these can-
not be determined with certainty. Mrs. Bates thinks there
were really only four, Tondarap and Didarak belonging to
152
CH. VII TOTEMISM IN SOUTH-WEST A USTRALIA 153
the Manitjmat moiety and Balarak and Nagarnuk to the
Wardangmat. But this conflicts with the information given
by Grey and by Salvado.
" The kinship system has not been, fully recorded, but my
own information, which is woefully incomplete, led me to the
conclusion that it was apparently not of the Kariera type but
might perhaps be near to the Aranda type.
" Since these tribes possessed the normal division into
patrilineal hordes, and the moieties and named divisions
mentioned above were matrilineal, it follows that each horde
contained men of both moieties and of more than one named
division. I gathered a little evidence, not conclusive, that
the horde was exogamous.
" The named divisions Balarak, etc., may perhaps be re-
garded as being totemic. Grey says that they derived their
names, at any rate in some instances, from animals. Thus
the Nagarnuk were named after a small fish, ?iagaru, and
the Balarak after a small species of opossum, balard. Grey
also reports statements of the natives that these '
families
'
as he calls them had their origin in species of birds trans-
formed into men. Thus the Ngontak came from the mountain
duck, the Didarak and Tondarap from two species of water-
fowl, and the Balarak from the swan.
" I obtained evidence that natural species were classified
under these divisions. Thus the tree used for making spears
belongs to the Tondarap division.
" Besides these matrilineal totemic divisions, if we are
to regard them as such, there was another system of totemic
groups. Mrs Bates states that every person had a totem
denoted as borong and that the totems were hereditary and
that they belonged to the holders of the totems' water-holes,
or to the occupants of the land in the vicinity of these waters.
As the land was possessed by the hordes and inherited in the
male line, it follows that these totems would be patrilineal.
" My own information agrees partly but not entirely with
this statement. There was a system of local totemic centres
or totemic districts similar to that which we have noted. The
whole country, in other words, contained a number of roughly
defined districts, each of which was associated with some
particular species of plant or animal which was plentiful in it.
154 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
My best informant stated that an individual had as his totem
the species associated with the district in which he was born.
Thus my informant's father was Manitjmat and Tondarap,
and had as his totem the swan. His mother was Wardangmat
and Balarak and her totem was an acacia of which the gum
is used for food. My informant was Wardangmat Balarak,
like his mother. He was born in a kwamar (honey-bearing
flower) country near Beverley, and this was therefore his
totem. It is possible that when my informant spoke of the
country in which he was born he may have meant that in
which he was conceived, but that this might be so only
occurred to me when it was too late to pursue enquiries
further.
" Though this seems to conflict with the statements of
Mrs. Bates, I think it does not really do so. Probably the
territory of each horde included several totemic centres or
districts, which would therefore all belong to the same
patrilineal horde and there would therefore be a sort of
patrilineal determination of the totem. It would seem that
persons of both matrilineal moieties and of any matrilineal
divisions might have the same totem, but even this is not quite
certain.
" There is a little evidence, not quite satisfactory, that
there were localized ceremonies of talu type for the increase
of the totem species.
" It is unlikely that we shall obtain any further informa-
tion about these tribes. We can only aflirm that they possessed
(i) a division into matrilineal moieties, (2) other matrilineal
divisions of a totemic or quasi-totemic character, and (3)
a system of local totem-centres, probably with increase rites
of the talu type, the totem of an individual being normally
determined through the patrilineal horde." ^
^ A. R. Radcliffe- Brown, "The delV Australia (Rome, 185 1), and
Social Organization of Australian Mrs. D. M. Bates, " Tribus du Sud-
Tribes," pp. 43-45, citing G. Grey, Quest de I'Australie," in Revue
Jour7ials of Two Expeditions of Dis- d' Ethtiographie, vol. iv. (1923) pp.
covery ; R. Salvado, Memorie Storiche 225-240.
CHAPTER VIII
TOTEMISM IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Working under the auspices of the Austrahan National
Research Council, Professor Elkin investigated the social and
totemic organisation of the remaining tribes in the state of
South Australia. His researches embraced the part of the
State lying north and west of a line connecting Adelaide
and Broken Hill, and lasted from February to December
1930. A great part of the area which he examined, while
it belongs politically to the state of South Australia, belongs
geographically to the centre of the continent. This is true
particularly of the tribes about Lake Eyre, including the
important tribe of the Dieri, which I have dealt with in my
former work, Toteniis^n and Exogamy. In what follows I
will adhere closely to the lucid exposition which Professor
Elkin gives of his own personal researches.
The tribes investigated by Professor Elkin may be divided
into two major groups : (i) an eastern or " Lakes " group
and (2) a western group, separated roughly by a line drawn
from about Charlotte Waters to Oodnadatta, Stuart Range,
Lake Gairdner, and Venus Bay. The former group also
includes the tribes in the south-western corner of Queensland,
while the latter includes tribes in the south-western corner of
Central Australia and in the south-east of Western Australia.
Further, (3) a southern portion or sub-tribe of the Arunta
(Aranda) occupies the country along the Macumba River
almost to Lake Eyre, which runs into the Lake at its north-
west corner, and so forms a buffer between the northern tribes
of the first two groups, and (4) the Naranggu tribe, which
formerly inhabited Yorke Peninsula on the south of the
155
156 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
eastern groups. In what follows, Professor Elkin gives a
brief outline of the social organisation, mythology, and
ritual of these tribes.
I. Eastern o?' " Lakes " Group
First as to the eastern or " Lakes " group, the tribes
included in this group are, commencing from the north-
eastern corner : the Yelyuyendi, Ngameni, and Wongkongaru
on the Diamentina and the country north of it ; the Marula,
Yauarawaka, Yantruwanta, and Dieri on the Cooper ; the
Piladapa on the southern reaches of the Strzelecki and around
Lake Callabonna ; the Arabana (Urabunna) and Tirari on
the west and south of Lake Eyre respectively ; the Wailpi or
Anyamatana on the northern part of Flinders Range ; the
Kwiani around the north and north-east of Lake Torrens ;
the Pankala on the south and west of the same Lake and on
the northern part of Eyre's Peninsula ; the Naua on the
southern end of this peninsula ; the Nukuna on the eastern
shore of Spencer Gulf between Port Augusta and Yorke
Peninsula which was inhabited by the Naranggu ; the
Ngaluri on the east of the Nukuna ;
the Yadliaura between
the Flinders Range and Lake Frome ; the Wadikali between
the latter and the New South Wales border ; the Wilyali on
the south of the Wadikali ; the Bolali around Broken Hill and
the Wilyakali between that town and Tibooburra in New
South Wales (the last three were probably sub-tribes of one
tribe, which seems to be referred to as the Wilya, and
possessed the moiety terms of the Darling River tribes) ; and
the Malyanapa, which was mostly in the far north-western
corner of New South Wales but belonged to the Lakes group
of South Australia.
The main features common to these tribes are : the
division into named matrilineal moieties each of which
consists of a number of totemic clans.
Certain features of their kinship system, which dis-
tinguish them from those of the western group and from the
Arunta (Aranda), especially the use of one term for father's
mother's brother and mother's brother's son, and one term,
frequently the same one, for father's mother and mother's
brother's daughter.
CH. VIII TOTEMISM IN SOUTH A USTRALIA 157
The possession, at least by all the northern tribes of the
group, of a patrilineal totemism of the talu or increase type,
and in nearly all cases, combined with this, a matrilineal
totemism of the same kind.
Sex totemism and dream totemism.
A type of mythology in which heroes are called Mura-
mura. The exploits of these heroes carried them from south-
western Queensland to Eyre's Peninsula.
The wilyarii rite, the highest stage of initiation, the
outward pattern of which is a particular pattern of cicatrisa-
tion, consisting of two vertical rows of short parallel scars.
^
The Moiety System.—The names of the moieties vary in
different parts of the area, though the names Matari and
Kararu range from the Wonkamala and Wongkongaru on
the north to the Ngaluri, Pankala, and Naua on the south.
The Yantruwanta, Yauarawaka, Piladapa, Malyanapa, and
Wadikali use Kulpuru and Tiniwa as the names of the
moieties. The Marula, Yelyuyendi, and Ngulubulu, use
Parkata and Wuturu. The Karuwali, according to one
member of the tribe, use Matura and Wuturu. Professor
Elkin could not obtain sufficient information to enable him
to decide whether the Karuwali which joins the Marula on
the north-east belongs to the Lakes group or not. The
Wilyali, Bolali, and Wilyakali use the moiety names Makwara
and Kilpara.
There appears to be only one headman for each moiety.
This is definitely the case with the remaining Wailpi. His
word is final, especially at secret gatherings or concerning
secret matters. The position of moiety-headman passes
from a man to his son's son, if the latter be sufficiently old
and learned, otherwise a brother of the retiring or deceased
headman, or some other respected member of the moiety,
succeeds him. A man's son is not eligible, for he belongs to
the opposite moiety. Such a headman is distinct from the
headman of a patrilineal ceremonial totemic clan. The
position of the latter passes from father to son.
The moiety organisation functions in initiation and burial
ceremonies, in marriage, in a system of settling differences,
^ A. P. Elkin, " The Social Organ- in Oceania, vol. ii. No. I (Sept. 1931),
ization of South Australian Tribes," pp. 44-53.
158 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA BK. 1
called kopara, in various secret matters, and in camping
arrangements.^
Kinship System in the Lakes Area.—Three types of kin-
ship organisation can be distinguished in the Lakes area,
(i) The Dieri type is found in the Dieri, Yantruwanta,
Yauarawaka, northern Wongkongaru, Piladapa, Yadliaura,
and Marula tribes. Its main features are the counting of
descent through four lines, whether through males or females,
and the use of one term {kami) for father's mother and her
brother on the one hand, and for mother's brother's (or
father's sister's) children on the other. This feature dis-
tinguishes the Dieri from systems like the Arunta (Aranda)
of Central Australia and the Nyul-Nyul of the Kimberlies, in
which the term for mother's brother's (or father's sister's)
daughter is the same as for mother's mother's brother's wife.
Further, the Dieri lacks the characteristic of many tribes of
the Arunta (Aranda) type, in which one term is applied to
mother's mother and her brother on the one hand, and to
the latter's son's children on the other hand. Instead, in the
Dieri system, mother's mother's brother's son's children are
classed with brother and sister, or what is much the same,
with yenku, father's father and his sister. Another feature
of the Dieri system is marriage with the mother's mother's
brother's daughter's daughter. This, which may be re-
garded as the typical marriage, is generally put in another
way, namely, that the children of two women related to one
another as cross-cousins intermarry.
Apart from the exceptions which follow, cross-cousin
marriage is forbidden in this north-western corner. But in
the Yauarawaka a man may jnarry his cross-cousin. This,
however, may only be the result of the difficulty of finding
spouses in accordance with the old law in the present de-
pleted condition of the tribe. The prohibition on cross-cousin
marriage has been relaxed as in exceptional cases amongst
the Dieri.
(ii) The southern tribes of the Lakes Group possess a
kinship system of the Kariera type. Descent is reckoned
through two lines only, and a man may marry his own
mother's brother's daughter, or his own father's sister's
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 53-54.
CH. VIII TOTEMISM IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA 159
daughter, or any other woman classified with her. In con-
formity with this, a man's children's spouses are called by
the terms for sister's children. One interesting feature in the
Wailpi and Pankala systems which shows their affinity to
the Dieri type is that mother's brother's daughter and son
are classed respectively with father's mother and the latter's
brother, though the terms are changed to those for wife and
wife's brother in the event of cross-cousin marriage.
(iii) The Urabunna (Arabana) and southern Wongkon-
garu in the north-west of the Lakes area, and the Wilyali and
probably also the Malyanapa in the south-east, have systems
which fall between those of the Dieri and Wailpi.
The tracing of descent, as far as terminology goes, is
through three lines, namely father's mother's brother,
mother's father, and father's father. The prohibition of cross-
cousin marriage is in force. Marriage in these four tribes is
with the usual four types of second cousins associated with
systems of the Dieri and Arunta (Aranda) types, though some
Urabunna (Arabana) informants were inclined to think that
such marriages were too close. One term is in use for mother's
brother's son and father's mother's brother as in the Dieri
type.^
TOTEMISM IN THE LAKES Area.—Five kinds of totemism,
distinguished by their function and descent, may be dis-
tinguished in the tribes around Lake Eyre and on the Cooper
and Diamentina Rivers. It is now too late to decide whether
they were all formerly present in the southern part of the area.
Mat?-ilineal Social Totemism.—Each moiety consists of a
number of totcmic social groups or clans, which like itself are
matrilineal and exogamous, and none of which appear in both
moieties in any one tribe. A person does not eat this totem.
It is his flesh, and comes from his mother just as his own
actual flesh comes from her. These social totems are almost
all edible. This form of totemism certainly extended south
to the Pankala, if not also to the Naua.
Patrilineal Ceremonial Totemis7n. —Each man inherits
from his father a totem name—usually different from the social
totem inherited from his mother—a piece of country with
which this totem and a Mura-mura or culture hero were
' A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 55-57-
i6o TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
associated in the past, a myth enshrining the story of this,
and a ceremony the performance of which usually brings
about an increase of the totemic species concerned, which
are only commemorative of the ancient hero. This totem is
called pintara by the Dieri, ularaga by the Urabunna (Ara-
bana) and Wongkongaru, and nari by most of the tribes in
the north-east of the area.
Each of these ceremonial clans has a headman. The office
is hereditary from father to son, provided that the son be old
enough, fully initiated and sufficiently well versed in the
myth and ritual. The pintara (totem ceremony) must be per-
formed by the pinta7-a men, though they are assisted by their
sister's sons. The former own the pintara, though the latter
are said to be the " bosses " of the performance, and must
see that it takes place. Like the pintara men, they have
learnt the myth and ritual, and are concerned about the com-
memoration of the totemic culture heroes, the Mura-mura,
and their institutions, and also are vitally interested in rites
with which the maintenance of the food supply is associated.
The ownership of the pintara by the pintara men is shown
by the fact that after the increase of the species consequent
upon the performance of the rite, they must be the first to
eat of it, after which they give leave to their " sisters' sons
"
and then to all others to eat it. Henceforth they themselves
as well as others eat freely of it. This point differentiates this
pintara totemism from the ceremonial totemism in the Arunta
(Aranda) tribe as recorded by Spencer and Gillen. Further,
a man will not let anyone waste any of the species which is
his pintara.
Matrilineal Ceremonial Totemism.—This form of totem-
ism was implied in the reference in the preceding section to
the " sisters' sons." It is almost the same as the pintara type,
except for the rule of descent and the somewhat inferior
position of the totemite to the totem, its myth and ritual.
This totem is called niaduka amongst most of the north-
eastern tribes, though the Urabunna (Arabana) refer to it as
abalga, and the Yantruwanta use the term aviata. The re-
lation of the two totems is as follows : in addition to inheriting
the pintara from his father, a man also inherits his mother's
brother's ^m/^r^, which then becomes his 7naduka (or amatd).
CH. VIII TOTEMISM IN SOUTH A USTRALIA i6i
This means that he learns the myth and ritual of the mother's
brother's pintara, and may visit the sacred site and assist in
the ritual as already mentioned. His children do not inherit
his 7naduka.
Both men and women inherit pmtara and maduka, but
the vv^omen have the name only and do not learn the myths
nor see the ritual, while the men only do so—according to
the old law—after having passed through the zvilyaru, the
highest stage of initiation.
This combined form of patrilineal and matrilineal cere-
monial totemism extends from the west side of Lake Eyre
into south-western Queensland through the Urabunna (Ara-
bana), Died, Wongkongaru, Ngameni, Piladapa, Yauara-
waka, Yantruwanta, and Marula tribes.
Dream Totemis'^n. —Each person is represented in dreams
by some plant, animal, or object, which is his dream totem.
To dream of his totem is to know that the person represented
will soon appear. This totem is the same as a person's
patrilineal ceremonial totem. The possession of a dream
totem is common to all the tribes of the group from the
Wailpi north.
Sex Tote9ms7n.—In all the northern tribes of the group
each sex has a plant totem or emblem called by the Dieri and
Urabunna (Arabana) narnbu, and by the tribes further
north-east amama. The former word means " mate " or
" guardian," and the latter " uncle "—" mother's brother."
This form of totemism seems to be only a " play " or sportive
type. One sex teases the other by pulling its " mate,"
retaliation follows, if possible, and a fight may ensue.
Each sex must look after its " mate " or " uncle."
II. The Western Group
The Western Group of South Australian tribes is char-
acterised by a remarkable unity of language, mythology, and
social organisation. The Aluridja occupy the strip of country
along the west of the Finke River from about the South
Australian border to Hermannsburg, while the Pidjintara
(or Pitjintara) belong to the north-west of the Musgrave
Ranges. The Aluridja, Maiulatara, and Pidjintara are really
in Central Australia, but their social organisation, mythology,
M
1 62 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
and to some extent their languages justify us in grouping
them with the western South AustraHan group. For the
same reasons the natives of south-east central Western
Australia may be included in this group.
Only a small portion of the area under consideration is
settled by whites, namely a strip of a hundred miles or so in
width on the east and along the southern coast. The rest
of the area is for all practical purposes waterless. The
rainfall is scanty and irregular, and much of the country is
sandy.
^
The tribes of the Western Group are characterised by a
number of common features in their social organisation and
beliefs, which not only serve to link them together, but also
to mark them off from the Eastern Group. These are :
—
The absence of moieties or the dual organisation.
The kinship system.
A variety of local totemism in which a person's totem is
determined by his place of birth.
The mythological theme.
Dream totemism.
Belief in spirit-children.
The pattern of cicatrisation which marks the fully initiated
man.
The Absence of Dual Organisation.—A casual observer
might think that the two terms Nganandaga and Tanamild-
ja7t, which he would most likely receive in response to enquiries
for moiety and section names, denote moieties. This, how-
ever, is not so. The term Tanamildjan is used reciprocally
between persons of one generation and the generations one
above and one below—for example, between a man and his
father or his son. On the other hand, Nganandaga is used
between persons of the one generation, and also between a
person and others of his grandparents' and grandchildren's
generations, for example, between a man and his wife's
brother, his father's mother, or his son's daughter. Further,
a man's spouse must be Nganandaga, and therefore cannot
belong to the generation one above or one below himself.
Thus in this matter, these reciprocal terms lead to the same
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 61-62.
CH. VIII TOTEMISM IN SOUTH A USTRALIA 163
result as the four-section system. Indeed some tribes with
four-section systems have in addition reciprocal terms for
members of the intermarrying pairs of sections and also for
the sections of parents and children. Incidentally the former
pair of sections includes a person's grandparents and grand-
children.
The absence of the moiety division is reflected in the
kinship system in several features, such as mother's mother's
brother's son is called by the term for mother's brother
instead of by the term for father, as would be the case in the
moiety system ; and again, mother's brother's children are
not merely regarded as brothers and sisters as sometimes
happens in tribes with the dual organisation when cross-
cousin marriage is prohibited, but they are called by the
terms for brother and sister.
In the Wirangu and in the northern Madutara and
amongst the Musgrave blacks, the absence of the moiety
system permits the multiplication of " mother's brothers
"
or possible fathers-in-law, for both the mother's brother's
son and the father's sister's son of both mother and father
are all four called " mother's brother," instead of two only
of these being so called, and two being called " father " as
would be the case in a moiety system. As wife's father is
always a tribal or legal " mother's brother," this doubles the
number of potential fathers-in-law.^
The Kinship System.—All the tribes of the Western
Group have practically the same kinship system, and, indeed,
use much the same terms. It is marked by a paucity of
terms as compared with the systems of the Eastern Group or
of the Arunta (Aranda). Only two terms are used for all
persons of the second ascending generation, and in some of
the southern hordes only one term for own son and sister's
son, and one term for own daughter and sister's daughter,
and cross-cousins are called brother and sister. But in spite
of this descent is reckoned through four lines as amongst
the Dieri and Arunta (Aranda).
The marriage rule is similar in some respects to that
which operates in the Dieri tribe ; cross-cousin marriage is
prohibited, and certain types of second-cousin marriage are
1 A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 65-66.
1 64 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA BK. I
usually allowed. But there is a difference in the type of
second cousin. In the Dieri, children of two women or of
two men who are related as cross-cousins, own or tribal, may
marry, and no others may do so unless the irregularity be
specially adjusted. The type marriage is with mother's
mother's brother's daughter's daughter. But in the northern
Madutara and in the Wirangu a man may marry the daughter
of a man who in terminology is cither his mother's or his
father's cross-cousin, that is, who is son's daughter of mother's
mother's brother, mother's father's sister, father's mother's
brother, or father's father's sister. In the southern Madutara
and in the Mulatara a man may marry the daughter of a
man w^ho is cross-cousin of his mother, or of a woman who is
his father's cross-cousin, that is, he marries the son's daughter
of his mother's mother's brother or mother's father's sister,
or the daughter's daughter of his father's mother's brother or
father's father's sister.
The tribes of south-east central Western Australia have
almost the same kinship terminology as the Madutara, but
they lit it into a four-section system, which has spread to them
from their north-west. There are two sets of section names
in this region. The first belongs to the district on the east of
Laverton, and is Karimara-Burunga, Tararu-Panaka. If
Paldjeri were substituted for Tararu, we w^ould have the
section names which prevail in the southern Kimberley, with
only the slight variation of Karimara for Karimba. The
other set of terms belongs to the Mandjinda on the north-east
of Laverton, and is Milanga-Burunga, Tararu-Ibarga.
The general marriage rule is that a man marries the
daughter of a " mother's brother " from " long-way," and
that usually a man does not marry his own second cousin.^
Local Toteniism.—The totemism which is common to all
the tribes of this area north of the East-West Line both in
South and Western Australia, is a variety of local totemism.
A person's totem depends on his place of birth and the totem
associated with that place. Further, this totemism is
ceremonial ; the totemite, if he is a fully initiated male, is
taught the myth and ceremonies which enshrine the story of
the culture hero or heroes associated with the totem, and in
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 67-69.
CH. VIII TOTEMISM IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA 165
some cases also, when such exists, the talu or increase
ceremony which is supposed to ensure the increase of the
totem. The talu ceremonies do not seem to exist south of a
Hne drawn west of Oodnadatta. These ceremonies are, of
course, associated with certain sacred sites. The southern
hordes merely sing to make the species increase, but the
explanation of this may be that having migrated from the
homes of their fathers in the north, where the talu sanctuaries
are situated, they are not disposed to travel back over the
desert for the ceremonies. Females know the name of their
totem, but neither the myth nor the ceremony. A person
does not eat his totem, and he feels grieved when he sees
another man kill it.^
Mythology.—The tribes of this group at least north of the
East-West Line possess a mythology which is marked every-
where by a common theme. This is associated with the
totemism of the area and enshrines the exploits of the totemic
heroes of the time long past. The one term djugnr denotes
a person's totem and the myth of his particular totemic hero.
Thus, when asked for his djugur, a man gives in reply the
name of some animal, plant, or object, or, very occasionally,
merely the personal name of an ancient hero, and then, in
order to complete his answer, goes on to recount the myth
of the hero who also bore the name of the same totem,
travelled about his (the speaker's) horde-country, and probably
performed some exploit or other at or near the spot where he
was born. A man's djugur (totem) is often the same as his
father's seeing that each horde has the same waters and
country, and that a man and his children are very likely to be
born somewhere along the route of the same totemic hero.
This variety of local totemism is similar to the con-
ceptional variety of local totemism of the Arunta (Aranda)
tribe at Alice Springs, in that a person's totem depends
somewhat on chance, and that the members of one totem
tend to belong to the one local horde. But here the fortuit-
ousness lies in the accident of birth and not conception.
There is no doubt about this in any part of the western
area.^
Dream Totemism.—-The dream totem in all the tribes of
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 69. - A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 69-70.
1 66 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
the Western Group in South Austraha is the djugur : that
is, if a person dreams of a djugur or local totem, a person
belonging to that totem will soon come along to the dreamer.
But just west of the north-western corner of this state, the
dream totem is the species associated with a person's con-
ception.^
Spirit-children Beliefs.—All the western tribes of South
Australia believe that a definite place (or, perhaps, a few
places), called Yualanya, is the abode of pre-existent spirit-
children. This has nothing to do with the totem of a child.
Children of different totems may all come from the one
Yualanya. Having left the spot, some of them are believed
to play about on the flowers of the mulga trees. The spirit-
home is described as a rock-hole, possibly a cave, containing
water, with a sand-hill near by. Women must be very careful
how they approach and obtain water at such a place, or else
spirit-children may enter them.
In the north-eastern part of the area, the spirit-child
changes its sex at incarnation. Thus a woman who dreams
that a girl-spirit has entered her womb will give birth to a
son.
The tribes of south-east central Western Australia who
visit Laverton and Mount Margaret believe that spirit-
children enter women in the guise of food. If after having
eaten something a woman is sick, and later on dreams of a
spirit-child, she believes that when she thought she w^as eating
food a spirit-baby had entered her. Some years after birth
the child is informed of its mode of entry into the mother's
womb, that is, of the particular article of food (some animal
or plant) associated with the mother's first sickness of
pregnancy. This animal or plant then becomes the child's
dream totem, that is, his symbol in another person's dream.
Informants told Professor Elkin that conception could not
take place apart from eating " child-food." ^
Cicatrisation. —^The pattern of cicatrisation on the backs
of all fully initiated men in this area is the same. It consists
of two sets of six or eight slightly curved parallel scars made
in an upright position down from each shoulder. Two
horizontal scars are raised under each of these two series.
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 70. ^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 70-71.
CH. VIII TOTEMISM IN SOUTH A USTRALIA 167
This pattern is called yileri in the south-western corner of
the state, and is a sign of complete initiation.^
III. The Macumba S^ib-tribe of the Arunta {Arandd)
This sub-tribe possesses four marriage sections—Kamara-
Pultara and Pananga-Purula. Each intermarrying pair
applies the term Nyurba to the other pair, and the members
of each such pair of sections refer to each other as Unangara
or Unara. These terms are the equivalents repectively of
Tananiildjan and Nganandaga, amongst the tribes of the
Western Group.
The kinship terms are slightly different from those
formerly used by the Arunta (Aranda) at Alice Springs, but
the system is the same. Incidentally, the prohibition of
cross-cousin marriage implies the halving of each section,
and this is recognised by the natives.
Each person has two totems. One is associated with the
place of birth. This local totem, called inanzva or inigzua
and also aknanindja, is the equivalent of the djugur of the
Western Group. The nianner of acquirement, namely,
through being born in a certain totemic locality, while it is
the same as in the case of the Western djugur, is different
from that which prevails amongst the northern Arunta
(Aranda), where the totem is determined by the place of
conception. Further, the local totemism of the Macumba
sub-tribe tends to become patrilineal in transmission, for
children are frequently born in their father's inanzva country.
Again, a man may give his inanzva to his sons, or for that
matter to other men also, if he needs their help for 'the
ceremonies connected with it. Sometimes, too, men refer
to the ina7izva species as " father," a sort of ancestor in the
patrilineal line. But in the ordinary course of events a man's
children may be born out of his inanzva country, and, in
such a case, will have different inanzva from his, though he
may give them his, which they will then possess in addition
to their own.
The inanzva (local toten"i) includes the name of a national
species, association through a myth with a definite locality,
songs, myth, and ceremonies, and in some instances at least,
1 A. P. Elkin, op. cit. p. 71.
1 68 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA bk. I
talu ritual for the increase of the natural species. In the
talu ritual the totemite is assisted by other fully initiated
men with the same inanwa (local totem), and also those
whose altjira, to be mentioned presently, is the same as his
inanwa. These talu ceremonies seem to have different names
according to the particular totems.
Women have inanwa, but do not learn the myths or
rituals connected with it
The other totem which each person possesses is his
altjira. This is really the inanwa (local totem) of his mother
and mother's brother, but becomes, as it were, his secondary
totem, linking him to his mother's brother's myth, ritual, and
share in the past history of the tribe. It corresponds to the
niaduka of the north-eastern tribes of the state, and gives
its owner the right to assist his mother's brother and those
who share the latter's local totem, in their inanwa ceremonies.
The altjira is also a person's dream totem.
The totemism of the Macumba sub-tribe has thus
affinities with both the Eastern and Western Groups, while
its altjira mythology and aknanindja totemism show its
relationship to the northern Arunta (Aranda).^
In the foregoing account Professor Elkin has told us that
the tribes of the eastern or Lakes Group perform ceremonies
of the usual talu or intichiutna type for the increase of their
totemic species, but he has described none of them. However
in recent years ceremonies of this type appear to have been
witnessed and described by Messrs. G. Home and G. Alston
for the Wongkonguru and their neighbours, to the east of
Lake Eyre, which belong to the Lakes Group of tribes
described by Professor Elkin. Their description runs as
follows :
" The growth of food from seed seemed quite
beyond their ken. Ceremonies they have, such as the
scattering of certain stones {inurrallacardia) to make the
wirras {Acacia salicina) grow, or yelka (small white stones)
w^ere scattered around to give a crop of yauas (onion grass)
or yams, but no idea existed of planting a seed with the hope
of a harvest. True, the seed of the wirra was also thrown
broadcast, but this seed had first to be crushed, and therefore
rendered impossible of fertilisation.
^ A. P. Elkin, op. cit. pp. 72-73.
CH. VIII TOTEMISM IN SOUTH A USTRALIA 169
" These ceremonies are generally performed after a
shower of rain has fallen or at any rate seems imminent."^
Again, speaking of magic, Mr. Home says :
" I will first
describe the stones and ceremony of charming the wirra
bush to grow. Wirra bush is a species of acacia {Acacia
salicind), and is used by the blacks when chewing pitcheri.
" The two stones used in this ceremony are very like
miniature hammer stones, which in fact they are. They range
in size from some i-| inches to some 2| inches in diameter,
and are usually worn very smooth through having been
carried about. They are passed on from one generation to
another, and very possibly they have been in the possession
of a family for hundreds of years. It is a very good magic
to have them, and the older they are the more valuable they
are. This ensures their being looked after very carefully.
One that I have is a petrified mussel-shell, and this, I was
assured, made it very valuable, for it showed that it had at
one time belonged to a moora (spirit), who had turned it into
stone, to make it '
more strong.'
" In use these were brought out after a rain and the whole
of the initiated men of a tribe gathered at the sandhill where
the wirra bush was wanted to grow. Each man had two of
these stones (they were called rnurrallacardici). A seed of the
wirra bush was then placed on one of them and hammered
with the other, while the performers danced around the spot
where the bush was wanted. The performance was kept up
till all the seed that had been brought out was used up.
" Another stone that was used in this ceremony was
called kunchera warroo. It represented the white inside of
the seed, and was planted where the zvirra tree was wanted.
It was a small white quartz pebble, usually about i inch in
diameter, roughly circular, and about \ inch thick. These
stones are very plentiful around Lake Harry, but are rather
scarce in the Wongkonguru country, so they were bartered
from the Dieri people or were sometimes given as gifts.
^ G. Home and G. Aiston, Savage aborigines in that district. Altogether
Life in Central Australia (London, he had spent twenty years among the
1924), p. 8. Mr. G. Aiston was a aborigines and knew them intin^ately.
member of the Mounted PoHce of He supphed Mr. Home with much
South Austraha and resided at Mun- valuable information on the natives,
garanie for eight years as protector of
I70 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA bk. i
These were deemed of as much importance as the niurralla-
cardia, as without them the plant would not know where to
grow.
" Another stone used in plant magic was called yelka.
This was roughly semicircular, about \ inch in diameter
across its widest part and about \ inch thick. It was used
to ensure a plentiful supply of yauas, a small bulb-rooted
plant that grows very plentifully in the water-courses {Cyper-ns
rotundus). Half an inch of rain will make these grow, and
they are in great favour as food. The ceremony of making
sure of a plentiful growth was very similar to the luirra bush
ceremony, only in this case the seed was not ground. All the
men present provided themselves with as many yelkas as
possible and dancing around a suitable flat in a watercourse,
they threw the yelkas broadcast in every direction. Directly
the yauas made a show above the ground the yelkas were
picked up and saved for another occasion. The song for
these two ceremonies was the same :
—
Charrili
CH. Ylil TOTEMISM IN SOUTH A USTRALIA 171
'
No.' If, however, a man wanted to tease the women, they
said, he would kill one and bring it into the camp on the end
of a kirra (boomerang), but he must be prepared to fight
them. '
Wadna hit 'em '
(I would be hit with the digging-
stick), was the remark.
" I have not been able to discover a corresponding male
totem, if such exists." ^
With regard to the mooras or mythical heroes of the far-
past time, to whom the aborigines, as usual, attributed the
origin of their institutions, including totemism, Mr. Home
tells us that :
" The Wongkonguru group, which includes
amongst others the Dieri, Yaurorka and Ngameni, seems to
have a sort of ancestor worship, the ancestors being the
mooras.
" A moora sometimes appears to have been a master mind
who was the first to discover anything, or through whom
anything was first discovered or done. They were the first
to fashion human beings out of lizards, and they formed the
sun. To them is attributed the making of murdus or totems,
and ceremonies and corroborees invariably have the moora
behind them, instigating or appointing, and thus giving them
authority. The old men maintain their influence partly by
receiving communications in dreams from the mooras. They
thus tell where to sink for water and where game may be
found. Animals as well as inanimate things, have their
mooras, and as Dintibunna said, '
Every man has a moora,'
a remark that was another day repeated to me verbatim by
Koodnacadie.
" Sometimes one may originate a whole tribe by leaving
potential spirit-children in rocks or in trees, whence children
are born to women who come in contact with them. For that
the father has anything to do with conception is absolutely
foreign to the native mind.
" Sometimes two, three or more may be the ancestors of
the tribe. This is the case with the Dieri. Rarely has a
man a definite moora to himself, as has Dintibunna, '
the
maker of the kirra,' and in his case the name is handed down
through his mother." ^
^ G. Home and G. Aiston, op. cit. ^ G. Home and G. Alston, op. cit.
p. 124. pp. 124-125.
172 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA BK. I
Among the achievements which those al)origines attri-
buted to the mythical heroes or mooras was the discovery of
fire. The legend of its invention w^as taken down by Mr.
Aiston. He writes as follows :
" This is the tale of how fire
came to the tribes in this country as it was told to me at
Lake Perigundi : I had ridden into the Lake, which was dry
at the time, and from the top of a red sandhill I had seen a
small white sandhill to the east. I told my boy that we would
camp at the white sandhill. The boy was a man of about
forty-five years. He did not like that camp, but said nothing.
When we got in I unsaddled and hobbled my horse and went
down to see if the soak wanted cleaning out. When I came
back I found that the boy had pulled the pack saddles off,
a couple of hundred yards from the white sandhill. I asked
him why, but at the time he did not give any satisfactory
reason. After we had had tea he said, '
That hill where
moora sit down,' pointing to the white sandhill. I asked
him which moora and he replied, '
Moora Moora Paralana.'
And this is the tale as he told it to me :
'
Long time ago
before the w^hite man come to this country a moora come up
from down country, and make a camp over behind that big
sandhill over to the west. Just about sundown he come over
to see the moora Paralana and find him eating raw fish. The
down country moora say to moora Paralana, 'What you
eat raw fish for? You like him ? '
Moora Paralana say,
'
Fish all right ; which w^ay you eat him ? '
Down country
moora say, '
Me like to cook them, more better that way.'
Then he ask this moora to come over to his camp and he
would show him. Over there the down country moora made
a fire and put some fish on the ashes and tell moora Paralana
to w^ait a bit. When the fish was cooked the down country
moora gave some to this moora and told him to eat him.
The moora Paralana eat all that fish and another one that
the down country moora cook for himself. He cook some
more and at last he fill up this moora.
" '
Then the moora Paralana ask him what he call this
thing he use. The down country moora tell him it is called
fire. He then ask down country moora to show him how
to make it, and when he learn properly how to make fire the
moora Paralana kill the down country moora and bring the
CH. VIII TOTEMISM IN SOUTH A US TRALIA 173
fire over to this sandhill. He camp here then all the time
and make the other blackfellows bring him tucker and young
women. By and by he get two young women who do not
want to stay with him. They wait till he is asleep and they
take a lire-stick and clear out. They show all their people
how to keep fire alight and after that they are mooras.' " ^
^ G. Home and G. Aiston, op. cit. of the origin of tire see my book Myths
p. 139. For other AustraHan myths of the Origin of Fire.
CHAPTER IX
TOTEMISM IN EAST AUSTRALIA
South-east Australia embraces the two States of Victoria
and New South Wales. This was the first part of the con-
tinent to be colonised, hence the native tribes of the region
have long been in contact with European civilisation, and
under the blighting influence of an alien culture they have
so wasted away or totally disappeared that now little or
nothing fresh can be learned from the few scattered survivors
as to their ancient customs and beliefs. The totemism of
the greater part of the area, so far as it could then be ascer-
tained, was described by me in my earlier work Totemism
and Exogam.y, and in this place I shall not attempt to add
to the exposition, but shall confine my attention to a part in
the northern area of the country which in recent years has
enjoyed the great advantage of being personally investigated
by Professor Radcliffe-Brown.^ In particular I shall deal
with two tribes, the Yukumbil and Kumbaingeri, as to which
he has supplied us with new and fresh information, based on
his own researches.
First, the Yukumbil is a large tribe occupying the region
of the Richmond and Clarence Rivers in the north of New
South Wales and extending over the Queensland border.
Their country extends about a hundred miles north and south
and eighty miles east and west. The sub-tribe about which
Professor Radcliffe-Brown has most information is the Kid-
jabal of the country at the head of Clarence River. The tribe
has a system of four sections with the names Barang, Deroain,
Banda, and Bandjura.
^ A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, " Notes Journal of the Royal Anthropological
on Totemism in Eastern Australia," in Institute, lix. (1929) pp. 399 sqq.
174
CH. IX TOTEMISM IN EAST A USTRALIA 175
In this tribe, as normally throughout Australia, the most
important social group is the local group or horde—this is a
small group which owns and occupies a certain defined terri-
tory. As normally happens in Australia, these hordes are
patrilineal and exogamous.^
Throughout the Yukunibil country there are sacred spots
at which rites for the increase of natural species were formerly
celebrated. Such places are called djiirbil. Each horde
normally had a number of such spots {djurbil^ in its country.
For example we may take the horde which formerly owned
a territory of somewhat less than 100 square miles between
Woodenbong and Unumgare. In the country of this horde
are the following sacred places (djurbil)—kangaroo, wattle-
grub, native bear, locust, big lizard, opossum, sugar-bag
(wild honey), sleep, rain-serpent.
The origin of these sacred places (djurbil) is explained by
stories relating to a mythical period before man appeared.
In Yukumbil this period is described as Budjerani, and the
mythical beings who lived at that time, and some of whom
are still thought to live in the mountains and scrubs, are called
by the same name. Each territory of a horde has its own
budjerani or mythical heroes, and these are friendly to the
people of the horde, that is, all the persons born in the horde
and all the women introduced from other places as wives of
the men of the horde. To strangers, that is persons from other
hordes, the budje7-ani of a country are dangerous. A djurbil
(sacred spot) which is connected with the budjeram (mythical
heroes) is therefore a dangerous place for all except members
of the horde to which it belongs.^
Members of the horde to which one of these sacred spots
belongs have the power to provide for the increase of the
natural species associated wath it, by going to the spot and
performing a simple rite. To illustrate these rites, Professor
Radcliffe-Brown takes a few examples, giving the legends
and rites for some of the djurbil (sacred spots) of the Wooden-
bong horde. The first legend relates to two djurbil, one for
kangaroo, and the other for the edible grub djubera.
In the mythical time (^Budjerani) there was an old woman
^ A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op. cit. ^ A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, oj). cit.
pp. 400-401. p, 401.
176 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA BK. I
and her nephew, who was a good-looking man. They were
Hving together at the place now known as The Glen. The
nephew had a big kangaroo-net, and one day he put up his
net. He told the old woman to go and beat up the kangaroo
by shouting, and so to drive them into the net, while he stood
by ready to kill them when they were entangled in the net.
She refused to go, and said that she would stand by the net.
So the nephew had to go to drive up the kangaroo, while
the old woman stood by the net armed with a boomerang.
When the nephew had gone to drive the kangaroo, one very
big old-man kangaroo approached the net and became en-
tangled in it. The old woman tried to kill him, but she was
not strong enough, and as the kangaroo struggled she also
became entangled in the net. Then the kangaroo carried
away the net with the old woman in it. As he travelled he
soon grew tired, and every now and then he had to rest. At
each spot where he rested a swamp was formed, and the
swamps are there to this day. Finally he stopped altogether
at Bainniabal, where the water-hole now is. The kangaroo,
the net, and the old woman are in the water. The nephew
returned to where he had placed the net, and found the net
and the old woman gone. He saw the tracks of the big
kangaroo. He followed the tracks. When he came to the
water-hole at Bainniabal he spoke to his aunt. She told him
that she was finished and that he should leave her. He re-
turned to The Glen. Then he started collecting and eating
wattle-grubs (djubera). As he travelled about the country,
wherever he camped a swamp was formed, and these swamps
still exist. He reached the swamp called Djubera and camped
there. He ate too many grubs. His head ached. He rolled
about on the ground, and as he did so a water-hole formed,
and in that he remained. He is still there.
At Bainniabal, which is a water-hole within the township
of Woodenbong, rites for the multiplication of kangaroos can
be performed. One or more of the performers dives into the
pool and stirs up the water. It is said that he could see the
kangaroo and the old woman. During the rite the performer
talks to the water, saying that he wants the kangaroos to be
plentiful, and possibly mentioning places where he wishes
them to appear in numbers.
en. IX TOTEMISM IN EAST A USTRALIA 177
The rite for the increase of the edible grub djubera was
performed at the pool of that name. The performer dives
into the pool and brings up mud from the bottom ; this mud
he throws against certain gum trees which stand beside the
pool. One man may do this alone, or two or more may carry
out the rite together. The performer talks to the water,
telling it to make the grubs plentiful. The rite is performed
in winter.^
The sacred place {djiirbil) for the multiplication of native
bear (bandjur) is on the ranges between Unumgare and
Woodenbong, and consists of a hole in the rock, but without
water. The story runs that in the mythical time {Budjerani)
the beings of that time were hunting native bears but could
not find any fat ones. First, they killed an old-man bear, but
as he was not fat they left him ; then they killed a mother
bear with a young one on her back. They left them also.
The old-man bear came to life again and went up a tree ;
the mother bear began to come to life again, and rolled about
and turned into stone. She is there in the hole which con-
stitutes the djurbil. The rite for the increase of native bear
consists of throwing small stones into the hole, talking the
while and telling the hole to send out plenty of bears.
^
The sacred spot {djiirbil) for locust is near to the last
mentioned, and is also a hole or cleft in the rocks. In the
Budjerani (mythical time) the people of the place used to take
their children with them when they went hunting. One day
an old woman told the people that they should leave all the
children for her to take care of, so that they would be able to
collect their food much more quickly, having no children
to look after. The people were not inclined to do this, but
finally the old woman was able to persuade them. All the
people went off hunting, and left their children behind with
the old woman. She made a deep hole or cleft in the rock
and put all the children in it. There was a very great
number. They are still there in the rock, but they are now
turned into locusts. The spot is the djurbil for locusts.
Locusts are an article of food for the natives. To make
them plentiful the performer pulls at a vine which grows up
^ A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op. cit. - A. R. Radcliffe- Brown, op. cit
pp. 401-402. pp. 402-403.
N
178 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA BK. I
from the bottom of the djurbil pXa^cQ, talking as he does so and
telling- the locusts to be plentiful. It is said that by a visit to
the djtirbil and talking to it the people to whom it belonged
could enlist the aid of locusts. If they wanted to steal a
woman or kill a man of another horde, they could arrange
with the locusts to make so much noise that any cry for help
from the victim would not be heard.
^
The sacred place {djurbil) for kabai (honey of the native
bee) is a pool in the neighbourhood of Unumgare, near which
stand two ironbark trees, while in the same spot there is a
yellow stone or rock. The man who wishes to increase honey
takes mud from the pool and throws it at the ironbark trees,
and also breaks off small pieces from the yellow rock, leaving
them lying there. He talks all the time he does this, telling
the bees to go everywhere and build their combs in the trees,
the stumps, and logs.^
The sacred place (djurbil) for sleep is of a somewhat
different kind from those described above. The men of the
horde can go to this spot, and by performing the rite can send
a sort of sleeping-sickness to their enemies in any part of the
country. The legend is as follows : In the mythical time
(Budjeram) there was a good-looking man who was looking
for walumban (a grub that lives in the pine tree). He filled
his net bag with the grubs. He camped at a spot near Mount
Lindesay. He made a fire, and roasted the grubs and had
a meal. After he had eaten the grubs he lay down under a
tree and fell asleep. He slept and slept and did not awaken.
He is there sleeping still, covered with his opossum skin cloak.
His food, the grub walumban, is there also, turned to
stone. These are certain small stones. There are also at the
djurbil five stones standing upright in a row.
If a man wishes to send his enemies to sleep he goes
to the djurbil (sacred spot) and with a sheet of bark hits
the ground beside the five standing stones. The budjera^n
(mythical being) stirs in his sleep. The performer then says
what he wants, naming the place to which he wishes the
sleeping-sickness to go. He may say that he wishes it to
attack a person or persons for one or two nights, or he may
1 A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op. cit. ^ A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op. cit.
p. 403. p. 404.
CH. IX TOTEMISM IN EAST A VSTRALIA 179
send it so that his enemies simply fall asleep and do not
awake any more. A short time after the rite is performed
there will be a shower of rain, and this is the sign that the
rite has been successful and the sleep has gone out to the
enemy. It is very dangerous for a stranger to go near this
djurbil (sacred spot), as he is likely to be attacked by the
sleeping-sickness.^
Professor Radclifife-Brown was told that the most im-
portant of all the djurbil (sacred spots) of the country near
Woodenbong is that on the hill called Ba7iyara by the natives,
which is connected with rain, but his information about this
is confessedly incomplete.
In the Budjeram (mythical time) there was a snake of the
kind called banyara. He had wings, and flew from Yulgilbar
on the Clarence River and settled on the mountain called
Banyara. Although the being is thus referred to as a snake,
or as having been a snake, it is now referred to as a zvarzani.
Professor Radcliffe- Brown could not discover exactly what
this word means, but it seems to be the name of some sort of
sacred being connected with rain. He was told that zvarzain
often makes a noise like thunder in the mountain. If any
member of the Woodenbong horde is sick this noise is heard.
The tvarzani is friendly to people of the horde but dangerous
to strangers. Apparently in this region, where the rainfall is
plentiful and well distributed, there was not much need for
rain-making ceremonies. The people of the horde could,
however, go to this djiirbil (sacred spot) and talk to zvarzain
and rain would fall which would flood all the creeks and
valleys.^
There is a djurbil (sacred spot) for hot weather in the
mountains near the Richmond River. Professor Radclifife-
Brown did not hear of any djurbil for cold weather in
Yukumbil country, but he was told that there is such a
<//'z<!r(5z7 belonging to another tribe at Warwick, in Queensland.
There is a djurbil for wind at a place called Bnlulgun near
Roseberry Creek. The legend runs that in the Budjeram
(mythical time) a man was following a very big bandicoot,
which ran into a hole. The man followed the bandicoot into
^ A. R. Radcliffe- Brown, op. cil. ^ A. R. Radcliffe- Brown, op. cit.
pp. 404-405. p. 405-
1 80 TO TEMISM IN A US TEA LIA B K . I
the hole, and travelled along underground until he came to
the place where the big wind is shut up under the earth. At
the djurbil there is a stone covering a hole ;
if this stone is
lifted a cyclone will follow.^
Professor Radcliffe-Brown was told of two or three centres
at which rites for the increase of children or babies were
performed. One is at the place now called Tadam ;
another
is on the Tooloom Range. The latter is a place where there
are a number of trees (spotted gums). When the people to
whom this djurbil belongs wish to make plenty of children,
one or more of them will go to the spot, strip a number of
small pieces of bark from the sacred trees and throw them in
different directions, talking as they do so, and naming the
places where they wish the children to increase.^
The territory of the Kumbaingeri tribe consists of a part
of the coastal region of New South Wales extending from the
Clarence River in the north to a point south of the Macleay
River. This tribe has the normal local organisation into
patrilineal hordes. There is a system of four sections with
the names Karbung, feminine Juran ; Wambung, feminine
Wirgan ; Marung, feminine Kargan ; and Wirung, feminine
Wangan. The arrangement of the sections is
Karbung Wambung
Marung Wirung
The kinship system of this tribe is of a type we have not
met with before, which Professor Radcliffe-Brown proposes
to call the Kumbaingeri type. The classification of kin is to
some extent carried out on the same general principles as
in the Kariera type. But marriage is prohibited with own
mother's brother's daughter, or own father's sister's daughter.
A man marries a woinan who belongs to the same section and
generation as his mother's brother's daughter, and who is,
according to the terminology, a relative of the same kind.
But she must conie from another part of the country, and
must not be closely related to him. The normal procedure
was described to Professor Radcliffe-Brown as follows. A
woman who is " father's sister " to a boy, possibly his own
1 A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op. cit. ^ a. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op. cit.
p. 405. pp. 405-406.
CH. IX TOTEMISM IN EAST AUSTRALIA i8i
father's sister, would look out for a wife for him. Finding a
woman who was her " sister," but not closely related to
herself or her nephew, she would induce the latter to promise
her daughter in marriage to the boy. From this moment,
this woman becomes the boy's mother-in-law, and he must
avoid her, in accordance with the usual etiquette of Aus-
tralian tribes. It is, therefore, preferable that he should
never have met her before the arrangement is made.
This type of kinship system is clearly related to the
Kariera type, but at the same time represents a movement
away from that type and perhaps, we may say, towards the
Arunta (Aranda) system. It is clearly dependent on the
existence of the four sections, and would perhaps be un-
workable without them. Its great difference from the
Kariera system is in forbidding marriage with near relatives
within the marriageable group, that is, within the group of
persons classified with the cross-cousins.
All the persons born in a given horde belong to one couple
of sections. The horde is, therefore, necessarily exogamous.
It seems probable, though the evidence is not conclusive,
that a man would not be allowed to marry a woman from his
mother's horde. There is also a definite objection to a man
marrying a woman from any horde that is geographically
near his own. He must seek his wife at a distance.^
In the Kumbaingeri language the equivalent of djurbil
(sacred spot for the increase of species) is viirer or niirera,
and in general the beliefs and practices with the sacred spots
so designated are essentially similar to those of the Yukumbil.
But while all Professor Radcliffe-Brown's Yukumbil in-
formants agreed that no one would perform increase rites
at a djurbil except the members of the horde that owned this
locality, some of the Kumbaingeri thought that anyone who
knew how to perform the rite could do it, even though the
niirera (sacred place) belonged to a horde other than his own.
It is now so long since these rites have been performed, or
even talked about, and so long since the local organisation
was completely disrupted by the white occupation of the
^ A, R. Radcliffe-Brown, " The of the kinship system of the tribe is
Social Organization of AustraHan given in Professor Radcliffe-Brown's
Tribes," pp. 62-63. This exposition own words.
1 8 2 TO TEMISM IN A US TRA LIA B K. I
country, that it is impossible to obtain any quite certain
information on a matter such as this. It is clear, however,
that there is a very real sense in which each mirera (sacred
place) belonged to a certain horde and was, if not their
exclusive possession, at any rate very definitely their pro-
perty.
Amongst the mirera (sacred places) about which Professor
Radclifife- Brown was told, there were two or three for the in-
crease of kangaroos, two for opossum, and others for the
increase of emu, kangaroo rat, dingo, crab, cod fish, perch,
oyster, and a species of shell-fish. The only vegetable species
for which Professor Radcliffe- Brown heard of increase rites
was a vine with edible fruit called girguru.
An interesting point with regard to the kangaroo is that
in one part of the country there is a place for the increase of
old-man kangaroo only, while elsewhere and belonging to a
different horde there is a tnirera (sacred place) consisting of
two water-holes, one connected with the female kangaroo and
the other with the little kangaroo of either sex. There are
therefore separate increase rites for male kangaroos and for
females and young. The rite in each case is similar
—
striking the water of the sacred pool and talking to it.^
Two unusual mirera (sacred spots) are connected with
two diseases : gunandi, a form of diarrhoea, or perhaps
colitis ; and bilir, apparently dysentery. By performing
rites at these spots, a man could send a visitation of sickness
upon an enemy. If a man were attacked with gunandi he
would try to think of some one of the horde to which it
belonged whom he might have offended and who might there-
fore have sent the sickness, and he would then go and ask to be
pardoned for his offence and healed of his illness. For a cure
he would be taken to the mirera (sacred spot), and the man
who took him would talk to the place, saying that the patient
was now to recover. A little sand from the sacred spot
would be rubbed on the sufferer's body. After that, the
natives say, the sickness would go.
The mirera (sacred places) for tiger-snake and for the
death adder seem chiefly to have been used for sending
^ A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, "Notes m. Journal of the Royal A?ithropologi-
on Totemism in Eastern Australia," cal Institute, lix. (1929) p. 406.
C H . I
X
TO TEMISM IN EAST A USTRA LIA 183
these snakes against enemies. A man could go to the tiger-
snake mirera (sacred spot), and striking the water there,
and throwing it in a given direction, and talking to the water,
he could send tiger-snakes to kill his enemies in that quarter.
Similarly with the mirera (sacred place) for the adder, which
is a round water-hole on the top of a mountain with a number
of stones spotted like the adder in the neighbourhood. The
performer throws some of these stones into the water, and
throws water in the direction in which he wishes the snakes
to go and attack his enemy.
An unusual mirera in the Kumbaingeri country is one for
ghosts near Coramba. The Kumbaingeri explanation of
the mirera is that they were formed in the mythical period,
but it is impossible to obtain the legends in any fullness.^
Professor Radcliffe-Brown tells us that the Dangali,
Ngambar, and Ngaku, three other tribes of this region, appear
to have had customs very like those of the Kumbaingeri in
regard to rites for the increase of natural species. They
occupied in the past territories on the middle and lower
portions of the Macleay River, and on the Nambuccar River.
The remnants of them are now living together and are
discussed together in this account.
Professor Radcliffe-Brown could not discover any word
in their languages exactly equivalent in use to djurbil or
mirera. They have however, or once had, exactly similar
sacred spots, and in a number of instances the name of the
place is formed by adding a sufhx to the name of the natural
species with which it is connected. Professor Radclifife-
Brown's enquiries, though hasty, were sufficient to demon-
strate the former existence in these tribes of localised increase
ceremonies of the same sort as those described for the tribe
further north. Thus in the Ngaku tribe there is a spot near
Crescent Head, where increase rites for the jew-fish can be
performed. There is a deep hole in the middle of a swamp :
the performer thrusts a spear into this hole, splashes the
water, and talks to the place, telling the jew-fish to be
plentiful.^
In these three tribes, however, Professor Radcliffe-Brown
1 A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op. cit. ^ a. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op. cit.
pp. 406-407. p. 407.
1 84 TO TEMISM IN A US TRA LIA B K .
I
came upon a problem. Here every individual has a special
connection with some species of animal which is his bagar.
A person may kill and eat the animal so related to him, but
when he dies all his nearer relatives must abstain from eating
that particular food for a certain period. The period of
abstention is different for different species of animals. The
longest is that for porcupine, so that when a man whose
bagar is porcupine dies, all his nearer relatives abstain from
porcupine flesh for three years. The period for some foods
was much shorter, sometimes as short as three or four
months.
An enquiry as to how the bagar was acquired elicited the
statement that it was inherited from the father, but this
statement was modified later, and Professor Radcliffe-Brown
was told that a man gets the bagar of his father and a woman
that of her mother. He adds that he thinks it is quite certain
that a man always has the same bagar as his father, and
that it is at any rate possible that a woman takes that of her
mother's brother.
The problem thus presents itself whether there is any
connection between the bagar and the increase rites. The
instances are too few, says Professor Radcliffe-Brown, to
enable us to draw any certain conclusion, but they do suggest
the possibility that a man's bagar was always some species of
animal which was connected to the horde to which he be-
longed, by reason of the existence of a place for increase rites
for that species within the country of the horde. It has thus
been possible to trace the former existence of localised rites
for the increase of natural species through 200 miles of the
coastal strip of New South Wales. It may yet be possible
to follow up these enquiries for another 100 miles southward
as far as Port Stephens, but from that point southw^ards it is
now too late to obtain any information, as all memory of
former native customs has entirely disappeared. There are
a few indications that lead one to suspect that a similar cult
may very well have extended right through the coastal region
of New South Wales and possibly into Victoria.^
Summing up the foregoing investigations. Professor Rad-
cliffe-Brown observes :
" The characteristics of the cult of
^ A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op. cit. p. 408.
CH. IX TOTEMISM IN EAST A USTRALIA 185
these coastal tribes may be enumerated as follows. The
sacred spots at which increase rites are performed are marked
by the presence of a water-hole, some peculiar feature of rock
or stone, or by trees. A majority have a water-hole. Only
very few have sacred trees without either a water-hole or some
rock formation. Amongst the sacred stones there are some
which are said by the natives to resemble in shape the species
with which they are connected. Thus at Wandjimirera
(waridji = dog), near Coramba, there is a rock which is said
to have the shape of a bitch. At Wiranaia (wz'r*^ =duck),
near Colombatti, there are stones shaped like ducks. In a
number of instances I was able to satisfy myself that the
animal or other natural species is, or formerly was, actually
abundant in the neighbourhood of the spot where the rite
for its increase was performed. Throughout this region the
perforniers of the increase rites do not paint themselves or
put on any special decorations, nor do they dance or sing as
.part of the rite. The performer talks all the time he is carrying
out the rite, but there are no set forms (spells of prayer) that
he repeats. He just tells the animal, or whatever it may be,
to become plentiful, and mentions special places where it is
to become abundant. The rites themselves are very simple
in form—splashing water, throwing stones or mud, knocking
fragments off a rock, and so on. In describing the rites to
me in Dangati two words were repeatedly used as descriptive
of the rites themselves : one giregerin, seems to mean to
poke or stir up ; the other niangin, means to catch hold of a
thing, therefore to get or obtain.
" Throughout this area there is apparently a legend in
connection with each of the places at which increase rites can
be performed, and such legends all refer to the mythical times
at the beginning of the world and to the beings who then
existed." ^
" In the Yukumbil tribe, there is a classification of natural
species as belonging to the four sections of the community.
It is impossible to obtain now anything like a complete
account of this classification, so that the following table only
gives the classification of a few species which my informants
were able to recall during a short discussion of the subject,
^ A. R. RadclifFe- Brown, op cit. pp. 409-410.
1 86 TOTEMISM IN A US TRA LIA BK. I
Deroain
CH. IX TOTEMISM IN EAST A USTRALIA 187
hawk belonged to the women. If any woman killed a bat
there would be a fight between the men and women ; and,
vice versa, if the men were annoyed with the women, they
would kill a night-hawk and there would be a fight.
" In the Kumbaingeri, Zegera, and Dangati tribes the
bat was the representative of the men, but it was a species
of woodpecker that was the representative of women. There
is a legend that it was this bird that first taught women how
to climb trees. The bat is described as being '
clever,' i.e.
skilled in magic. A native pointed out to me that the bat
and the woodpecker have this in common, that they both
live in holes in the trees. . . .
" This little strip of New South Wales coast therefore
affords us examples of localized increase rites, of classification
of animals under the sections, and of sex-totemism, all three
of which are widespread institutions in Australia. In addi-
tion it gives us the bagar of the Dangati tribe, a form of
totemism that has not been recorded before." ^
1 A. R. Radcliffe-Brown, op. cit. pp. 412-415.
CHAPTER X
TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND
In recent years a system of totemism has been discovered
by Miss Ursula McConnel in the Wik-Munkan tribe of Cape
York Peninsula, the most northerly point of Queensland and
of Australia. Her description of the system is excellent, and
I will follow it closely.
The Wik-Munkan is the largest and most important of a
group of tribes in Cape York Peninsula, characterised by
names formed with the word IVik, signifying " speech,"
which occupy a stretch of country along the Gulf of Car-
pentaria, thirty to fifty miles wide, through which flow the
Watson, Archer, Kendall, Holroyd, and Edward Rivers.
The territory of the Wik-Munkan begins below the junction of
the Coen and Archer and the Pretender and Holroyd, and ex-
tends to the mouth of the Archer and the junction of the Kendall
and Holroyd. It touches the Watson River in the north and
the Edward in the south, and covers an area, roughly speaking,
of three thousand square miles. The Wik-Munkan do not
come in contact with the sea, for a strip of land along the
coast varying in parts from two to ten miles wide is inhabited
by kindred coastal tribes. Of these the Wik-Natera or Wik-
Kalkan occupy the coast for sixty or seventy miles south of
the Archer River, concentrating chiefly on two inland arms
of the sea called Yoinka and Arimanka ;
the Wik-Natanya
or bush-rat people inhabit the corner of the coast between
Arimanka and the Kendall—a distance of ten miles, and the
Wik-Nantjara occupy the coastal country between the Kendall-
Holroyd and the Edward.^
^ Ursula McConnel, " The Wik- sula," in Oceania, vol. i. No. i (April
Munkan Tribe of Cape York Penin- 1930), pp. 97-98.
188
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 189
The Wik-Munkan and kindred tribes have a similar social
organisation. In every case the tribe consists of a number
of patrilineal clans, each claiming descent from common
ancestors and possessing rights of hunting over a certain
territory. The Wik-Munkan includes about thirty such local
clans, of which a few are practically extinct, the majority
have from one to five members, a few from five to ten members,
whilst others, as the carpet-snake, native companion, crocodile,
and ghost clans have from ten to twenty members. As all
these clans were probably at one time equally large, it may
be assumed that the Wik-Munkan tribe must have originally
numbered from fifteen hundred to two thousand people.^
The members of a clan hunt chiefly on their own grounds,
to which they are deeply attached. Each local horde or
camp consists of members of the local clan, together with
women of other clans who have married into the clan, but
without the women of the clan who have left it to marry into
other clans, for the clans are exogamous. The numbers in
a camp are often or sometimes increased by visits from rela-
tives from other clans. When food supplies are scarce in
any district or a variety of diet is desired, members of one
clan may visit their relatives in other clans whose hunting
grounds provide other sources of supply. At special seasons,
when food is plentiful in any district, members of the clan
in charge send out invitations to their relatives to come and
join them. In this way large camps gather periodically on
favourite hunting grounds—panja swamps, water-lily lagoons,
and reaches of the river where fish are plentiful.^
Each clan has a number of totems of varying importance
which are common to all members of the clan. These totems
are mostly drawn from objects of utility round which daily
interest centres, and in the case of natural supplies, from those
found in the district occupied by the clan. The totems of
these people thus reflect their economic interest. For ex-
ample, the totems of the coastal tribes include dugong, sea
turtle, sharks, oysters, crabs and shellfish, bony bream, and
big salt-water fish such as barramundi and white-fish ;
also
1 U. McConnel, "The Wik- p. 181.
Munkan Tribe : Part II: Totemism," ^ U. McConnel, op. cit. pp. iSl-
in Oceania, vol. i. No. 2 (July 1930), 182.
190 rOTKMISM IN AUSTRALIA BK. I
" thunder," which heralds the north-west monsoon season ;
the " high tide," which brings in food ; a " small bird,"
which is believed to guard the fishing operations of a clan ;
bark canoes and spear-handles so necessary to fishing ex-
peditions and the hunt ;
pelicans, geese, pigeon and scrub-
fowl, flying-fox, bush-rat, wallaby, and the " fresh young
grass " on which they feed, as also arrowroot and yams.
Besides objects of utility and those of utilitarian association
totems may include dangerous and disagreeable things, such
as " crocodiles " and " flies," which possess a negative social
interest in that they cannot be ignored but may be increased
for the discomfort of enemies and strangers. Other totems
again are derived from objects of social significance such as
" fire," which apart from its general utility for warmth and
cooking is the centre of family life and associated with the
disposal of the dead, the " bull-roarer " which is given to
young men at their initiation ceremony, and the " shooting
star " or meteor which is believed to signify the death of a
relative. The " baby," " sweet-heart," and ghost totems
reflect the chief phases of human life—birth, mating, and
death, which are the basic interests of social life. In every
case the totem has thus a social value, direct or indirect.
Personal names of members of the clan are derived from
characteristics of the clan totems or reflect their social value
to the clan. Members of the " shooting star " totem, for
example, are called Aka-battana (aka =^ro\xx\A \ battan
= hits), those of the iguana totem are called Pantamo'a
(iguana runs up a tree), and those of the kangaroo totem are
called Panpointjalama (kangaroo sniffs the air and smells a
man). Clan names of men and women sometimes reflect
their respective occupations in association with the totem :
for example, n:ien take their names from the spear-handle
totem (Wik-Natanya) and women from the fishing-net and
dilly-bag totem, it being a woman's work to make and use
dilly-bags and a man's work to make and use spears.^
Totems and the personal names derived from them are
passed to the children from the father's family. When a
woman is about to bear a child she goes into the bush with
her mother. The child is not seen by its father till the navel
^ U. McConnel, op. cit, pp. 181-182.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 191
string has conie away. It is seen first by the mother's younger
brother, and laid face downwards on his body. Later it is
taken by the mother, together with an offering of fish and
yams, and is placed in her husband's arms. From that time
he assumes responsibility for it, and it receives a name from
one of his clan totems. It is usual for a brother or sister of
the father, according as the child is male or female, to assign
a name to the child, who then belongs to that totem. If a
man has several sons or daughters they generally receive
names from the father's brothers and sisters in order of their
age. Sometimes a name is taken from the father's father, the
father or the elder brother. According to the Wik-Nantjara
a man cannot give his own nanie to his son during his life-
time, as this would endanger the life of the child. After
death, the name of the deceased may not be spoken nor
passed on, until the period of mourning is over.
If a child receives its name from its mother's clan it is
commonly because it has no acknowledged father, or because
its mother comes from a strange tribe, so that its connection
with its mother's people may be preserved. In that case it
may belong to both its father's and mother's totems. Names
may be passed from one clan to another so long as the clans
belong to the same moiety. This is sometimes done, for
example, when members of one clan are dying out and there
is no one left to take the name of a certain totem. For
example, a woman of the bone-fish clan was given a name
belonging to the bush-nut clan because there was no woman
left in the latter. It is possible that at one time personal
names were attached to all totems, being required by the
number of people in the clan. Now that numbers have
dwindled, only those names belonging to the most significant
totems remain.^
The Wik-Munkan word for totem is piilwaiya. Pul or
pola is the term used to distinguish the father's father or a
forbear in the male line. Waiya is sometimes used with
kinship terms to signify old. There is an intimate personal
link between a puhvaiya (totem) and its clan people. If a
man is sick or injured he may attribute the malady or the
hurt to an injury inflicted by someone on his totem.
^ U. McConnel, op. cit. pp. 183-184.
192 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
The pulwaiya (totem) has a sacred place of origin, its
auwa, where it resides and whence it issues forth. These
auwa or totem centres are sometimes the nests and breeding-
places of the birds, animals, and plants concerned, and are
always situated on the hunting-ground of the clan to which
they belong, where the totemic species is abundant. Each
auwa (totem centre) has its own peculiar characteristics.
Trees, bushes, rocks, naturally or artificially arranged, ant-
beds or holes in the ground in the neighbourhood of the
auwa, are sacred to the totems. There is always water near
by in the shape of river, creek, lagoon, water-hole, swamp,
or well at the bottom of which the pidwaiya (totem) resides
and into which the dead of the clan are believed to go. They
are said to play about their auwa in the shape of their totem.
That may be why plants or animals are protected near the
auwa (totem centre) of their representative totem and why
the killing of an animal or the injuring of a plant near its
auwa (totem centre) is not only strictly forbidden but is
believed to be attended by grave consequences. It is to these
ghosts or spirits that appeal is made during the ceremony
performed at the auwa to ensure a plentiful supply of the
totemic object. That the clan should feel its economic
dependence upon its ancestors is natural, since it is from
them that the knowledge and skill required for the pursuance
of economic activities have been handed down. This aspect
of totemism is illustrated in the ghost clan, where th.Q pulwaiya
(totems) are human beings who are said to have taught men
the arts of building the dams and fish-traps and cooking the
fish in ant-bed ovens.
^
The ceremony for the increase of a totem is performed
by the leading men in the presence of other members of the
clan. Strangers may be admitted to the ceremony, in which
case sweat from the armpits of the leaders is rubbed over their
faces and chests so that the totem will smell and know that
they " belong " to the totem and no harm will befall them
for their intrusion. The leading men paint themselves for
the ceremony with white clay to represent the totemic object.
The ritual differs with the various auwa (totem centres).
Trees may be struck, the ground stamped upon, the tops of
^ U. McConnel, op. cit. pp. 185-187.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 193
the ant-beds may be hit off, the ground swept with bushes
and mysterious sounds made, the totem being instructed to
" come up plenty," and to go in all directions for the use of
man. It is as if each clan made itself responsible for the
origin, sufficiency, and continuity of those objects of social and
economic value associated with its daily needs, so that among
the various local clans most human wants are met. It is
reasonable to suppose that rites for the increase of the totems
were performed at all totemic centres where an increase of
the totem was desired. It is possible that many rites have
fallen into disuse because no one is left to renew them, the
totems alone being remembered. In some cases even the
totems are remembered only with an effort. An attempt is
usually made to keep up the most important totem centres
when their disappearance is threatened by depletion of the
clan strength. They are generally in this case taken over by
a neighbouring clan, for example the native companion clan
has taken over the carpet-snake totem centre on the Tokali
River, of which the original clan or tribe is now extinct.^
The totemic cult of all the other Wik tribes is similar in
the main essentials to that of the Wik-Munkan. The Wik-
Nantjara have a yam auwa (totem centre) where yams are
said to originate, consisting of a water-hole in a little creek
which always remains sweet. The spirits of the dead are
thought to go down into the water-hole to stop the salt water
from coming in to spoil the yams. Every year when rain
begins, the ceremony of smoothing out the mud in the water-
hole takes place. Mud is thrown about the sides of the
water-hole and the place is tidied up. This is believed to
ensure a good crop of yams in the coming season.
At the crab and barramundi auwa (totem centres)
ceremonies are also performed for the increase of crab and
barramundi.^
The following survey will show how close is the corre-
spondence between the clan totems and the objects of economic
value in the districts over which these clans have hunting
rights. The personal names of the clan members will be
seen to reflect in a picturesque and striking manner the
1 U. McConnel, op. cit. pp. 1S7-188.
2 U. McConnel, op. cit. p. 188.
194 TOTEMISM IN A USTRATIA BK. I
characteristics of the totems, or their value to the clan,
whilst the myths and legends reflect laws, beliefs, and customs
of the people with regard to their totems.
In the lower reaches of the Archer River, the l)anks of
which are lined with mangrove, is the auwa (totem centre)
of the black mangrove, the seeds of which are eaten after
special preparation. On the other hand, the fruit {niai po ani)
found higher up the river has its miwa (totem centre) there.
The totem centre consists of some hollows in the ground
and the ceremony performed for its increase consists of
the cleaning out of these hollows to the accompaniment of
mysterious sounds. Various species of palm trees with
edible fruit have auzva (totem centres) in those parts of the
country where they are chiefiy found. The pandanus has
an at-iwa on the Holroyd River consisting of a dried-up
swamp in the vicinity of which are many pandanus trees
heavily laden with fruit. The kernel of the fruit is good to
eat, though difficult to extract. Another palm (niai koinkan)
found on the Upper Archer River has its atnva (totem centre)
there. In the heavily timbered forest country of the Kendall
River is the auwa of the flowers of the messmate and blood-
wood trees, which are one of the main sources of the honey
supply. The puhvaiya (totem) lives in a water-hole in a
creek beside which are many messmate and bloodwood trees
covered with marks made by tomahawks of all ages during
the ceremonies performed to ensure the growth of the trees.
The personal names of the clan, Ku-ungana (messmate in
bud), Patjabiinta (messmate in flower), and Maipatjakai^nai =
food, patja = flower), signify that the main point of interest is
the flower which holds the honey. It is believed that when the
last man of this clan dies and no one is left to perpetuate the
custom of chopping at the trees the supply of honey from
messmate and bloodwood trees will cease throughout the
Peninsula. Honey is a staple food and satisfies the craving
for something sweet. The auwa of the honey totem is on
the Edward River.
^
There are several varieties of water-lily. One small blue
lily is plentiful on the lower Archer River and has an auzva
(totem centre) there at a place called Taimanir. Two other
1 U. McConnel, op. cit. p. 189.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 195
species of water-lilies have aiiwa (totem centres) at Taiani
and Potjauwa in the lagoons of the Archer River, where
these water-lilies grow. No lilies may be gathered from the
sacred lagoon of Potjauwa. No information was available as
to the ceremonies associated with the water-lily totems on
the Archer River, but on the Holroyd River lagoons a small
sweet water-lily had an " increase " ceremony associated with
its totem-centre. At the beginning of the water-lily season,
the roots and seeds were gathered and cooked in large
ceremonial ant-bed ovens on an open space near the lagoons.
After these had been cooked they were left to be washed away
by the flood waters of the following wet season and so carried
into the lagoons and creeks. This it was believed would
ensure a good crop of water-lilies in the following year.
After this ceremony had been performed water-lilies could be
gathered and eaten. In a little creek running into the Archer
at a place called Panam, is an auwa (totem-centre) for bush-
nut. This little edible root grows in the swamps into which
the creek overflows in the wet season. The creek has a rocky
bed, under which the water disappears to emerge again
lower down, being visible here and there through holes in
the rock. In these mysterious-looking holes is the bush-nut
auwa (totem centre). Stones are thrown down into the water
to attract the attention of the pulwaiya (totem) to the needs
of the people for a fresh supply of bush-nuts. The rite is
accompanied by strange sounds and movements of the hands
over the holes. The personal name Ktunama {mama means
" pick up ") refers to the gathering of roots out of the swamp
mud. The woman's name Tipnguta {tip means " root ")
refers to the way in which the women mash up the roots for
food. An interesting identification of the totem with the
dead occurred at the ceremonial burning of the body of a
dead man belonging to the bush-nut clan. The women
mourners as they danced and sang stooped over the body,
stretched out their hands towards it as if picking up bush-
nuts from the swamp, and lifted them to the dilly-bags
suspended from their heads as though placing the nuts in
them.^
Above the water-lily lagoons the Archer River runs in a
^ U. McConnel, op. cit. p. 190.
196 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
clear shallow stream through a sanely river-bed. Here the
stately long-legged jabiru picks his way about the sand and
dives his beak beneath the water for fish. The clan names
reflect this picture. For example, Manwuna means the
jabiru plunges his neck below the water to spear the fish.
Here the jabiru and storm-bird have their auwa (totem
centres). The auwa of the storm-bird was formerly in a well
beside which it nested A deep channel in the bank made by
the water after rain is pointed out as the path by which the
pulwaiya (totem) came. Now the storm-bird has shifted its
auwa (totem centre) to a hole further off. The auwa of the
plains turkey is in a lagoon south of the Archer River in
which no one may swim. Legend tells of a man who dis-
regarded the taboo and fell dead on coming out of the water.
The native companion auwa (totem centre) is in a small
swamp on the northern bank of the Archer River. Half-way
down the bank is a hole which at the increase ceremony was
cleaned out to the accompaniment of mysterious sounds,
and in the river bed some holes in the rocks were approached
in a mysterious manner. The native companion clan is the
largest now extant in the Wik-Munkan tribe. In a little
creek running into the Kendall River is the auwa (totem
centre) for bream. The remark, " Fish there all dead himself"
(they die after breeding), suggests that this is the breeding-
place of the bream with which the Kendall River abounds.
Close by the creek, small ant-beds have been arranged in a
circle with lines of ant-beds going east and west from the
circle as if coming up from the auwa (totem centre). These
ant-beds are said to be bream. While Miss McConnel was
there the spot was tidied up, fallen ant-beds were replaced
and others were added to the group to make more bream,
whilst the fish were bidden to go in all directions to fill the
creeks and rivers.^
One of the most interesting totems is the fire {tuma)
totem. Tuniauzva, the fire totem centre on the banks of the
Archer River, consists of some very old logs against which
are growing some small bushes. At this spot, it is said, fire
" makes itself." It is also said that at one time the body of
a dead man—an ancestor of the clan—was burned there.
^ U. McConnel, op. cit. p. 192 sqq.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 197
The plucking of leaves froni the bushes is strictly taboo,
because it is believed that the sacrilegious act would cause a
fire to break out, and to spread far and wide. This prohibi-
tion against touching the auwa (centre) of a dangerous totem
is an interesting antithesis to the process of stirring up the
totem which takes place at those centres where an increase
of the object is required. A water channel leading into the
river was pointed out as the path made by the puhvaiya
(totem) when he came looking for a place to settle and went
down into the river. On the river-bank are rocks of a
reddish colour suggestive of fire. It is dangerous to pass
under these rocks, for the puhvaiya (totem) would be angry
and cause the water to surge up and upset the canoe. In
passing the spot, the canoes keep to the other side of the river.
Another dangerous totem is the salt-water crocodile, which
is very much feared. Its auzva (totem centre) is in the
swamp near the mouth of the Archer River. Some men
profess to be able to " make " the crocodile and to send it
out after an enemy. It is dangerous, therefore, to make a
crocodile man angry. The crocodile magic is as follows.
The crocodile man takes a lizard or iguana, draws blood
from his arm, puts it in the lizard's mouth and then ties the
lizard up in grass with its legs and tail protruding, and lays
it in the sea, calling it his " son," and bids it grow into a
crocodile. When the man's mouth is sore he knows that
his son the crocodile has grown big enough to eat small fish ;
when his mouth gets sore again the crocodile is big enough
to eat large fish. The man then forgets about his " son
"
and tells no one what he has done. He goes back to his
camp with a stick over his shoulder, which signifies that he
has done something, but no one asks what it is. Later he
goes fishing and sees a ripple on the water. The crocodile
sees him. When it does nothing the man knows that it is
his " son " whom he has made. Putting sweat from under
his arm on a stick he lays it in the water where the tide will
carry it to the crocodile. The crocodile then follows him
and he puts sweat on its face and in its mouth and cleans its
teeth with a straw, taking care not to touch its back, for that
would make it angry. The crocodile then recognises him
as its " father." The man sends his " son " into the lagoons
198 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
and rivers to round up fish and send them towards him.
When the man catches plenty of fish he knows it is because
his " son " the crococHle has sent them to him. If he has an
enemy he sends it after him. The crocodile will go every-
where till he finds the enemy and will bring him to his father.
A man cannot kill his own " son," the crocodile, and if any
one else should kill the crocodile the man will become sick
—
he will weep and be sorry for his " son " who has been
killed.
In a neighbouring clan the fly totem may be increased at
its auzva (totem centre) for the discomfort of strangers.
Possibly, like the fly, the leech may also be increased with
the same object. Women dread the leeches when they go
into the lagoons and swamps to gather water-lilies, and some
swamps are so badly infested that no one can be persuaded
to go into them. There are several snake totems, but the
carpet-snake totem on the Tokali River has a wide reputation
and is much feared. The carpet-snake totem afl'ords an
interesting comparison with other animal totems. The em-
phasis upon one big snake, more important than the others,
is more pronounced than in any other clan.^
Thunder is said to be the voice of the carpet-snake
(Ohigorpafi), who growls on the approach of strangers He
lives in a hole under a big rock overlooking the Tokali River.
From this rock he can see the approach of strangers along the
river or from the opposite shore and so can go down under
the water, upset their canoe, and take the occupants to his
hole under the rock. This hole, it is said, connects by an
underground passage with the big feasting-ground where
the strangers were eaten by the snake. A heap of bones is
pointed out as the remnant of the snake's feast. Investiga-
tion proved them to be the bones of emu, bullocks, and other
animals. Besides the chief snake there are many others,
some of which inhabit rocks by the river and help the chief
snake to keep watch, but most of them live in fig trees in the
vicinity. These trees are sacred : bark may not be peeled
from them to make string, and should any one pluck a leaf a
big snake might come up and consume him. Snake-holes
are pointed out in the trees, also the tracks of these reptiles
1 U. McConnel, op. cit. pp. 195-196.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 199
into the holes and branches of the trees on which they sun
themselves.
No snakes may be killed or eaten near this spot. Near by
is a swamp where the snakes come to drink at night. If any
one attempts to step into the swamp, which is naturally boggy,
the snake will drag him down under the w^ater and take him
to his hole, which has an underground connection with the
swamp.
^
The most significant of all the totemic clans is the ghost
clan, which contains all the essential aspects of the other
clans, and since in this case the totem is human, it throws a
valuable light upon the meaning of the various animate and
inanimate totems of the other clans. Ornymizua, the ghost
totem centre, is situated towards the middle of the Wik tribal
area on a string of lagoons to the south of the Archer River,
which are probably a continuation of the Archer River and
Yoinka River lagoons. The economic aspect of totemism is
not lacking in this clan, for the fish plays an important part.
It has an aiiwa (totem centre) on the creek between the lagoons
at Ornyauiva, in which are a series of fish-traps and dams in
varying stages of desuetude. These are pointed out as having
been built by the pulwaiya —obviously the clan forbears.
Near by are extensive ant-bed ovens, also said to have been
made by the pulzvaiya, who taught men this art. Ant-beds
standing near the fish-traps and ovens are said to contain
ghost women who guard the fishing-activities—the big ant-
hills are the elder women and the small ones the young girls.
The tops of the ant-beds are struck off and the ground is
swept with branches. This latter act brings an increase of
fish; the former, of sweethearts. Care is taken not to strike
the ant-beds too hard, for fear of causing trouble. The
women keep aloof during this rite to avoid suspicion Near
the fish-traps is the auwa (totem centre) of a small bird which
is said to guard the fish-traps.
The big lagoon
—
Ornyauwa—is the auwa (totem centre)
of the male ghosts, and a smaller one
—
Pantiauwa—is the
auwa of the female ghosts, of which the most interesting
are the young girls. Romance centres around Pantiauwa.
Ghosts from the two lagoons meet in the space between.
1 U. McConnel, op. cit. pp. 196-197.
200 TOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA bk. I
The ghosts Hvc at the bottom of the lagoons. No one may
enter the lagoons nor fish in them. If one should try to swim
in Pantiauwa, the women ghosts at the bottom of the lagoon
would poke the intruder with their yam sticks. Sometimes
the ghosts emerge from the water and walk about, but they
disappear quickly when any one approaches. The ghost
girls come up out of the water and sit on the logs of the
lagoon sunning themselves.
Sometimes the women ghosts come up out of the lagoon
and roam about looking for yams and honey. A story tells
of a ghost girl who, being sorry for a man that could not
find any honey, caused a big piece of honeycomb to fall at
his feet. These girl ghosts sit by the camp fires and guard
them while a man sleeps or goes hunting, that is, if he be-
longs to the ghost clan; but they steal from the camps of
strangers, taking their spears and so forth while they sleep.
A legend tells how a man stole a girl from the ghost clan
and how on returning with her later the couple were speared
to death. This legend appears to explain the origin of the
ghost totem. Another legend records the punishment meted
out to a man who broke the taboo of the ghost clan at
Ornyauwa. A man was passing these lagoons on his way
back to Kendall River from " the bamboo place " with a
bundle of bamboo spears on his shoulder. As he came near
the lagoon he heard singing. Coming up quietly he saw a
bevy of ghost girls disporting themselves in the water.
Quickly he went back and laid down his bamboo spears,
picked out a good one and, holding a branch in front of him,
stole back to the lagoon as if stalking an emu. He came up
close, chose the girl he wanted and threw his spear, wounding
her in the arm. In consternation the ghost girls dived under
the water, but wading in he secured the wounded one.
He put his sweat on her, saying, " You are my woman."
Then taking blood from his arm he smeared it on her and
rubbed her to make her warm. She was very frightened
and struggled, but finally went with him. He took her to his
camp and everyone wanted to know where he had found her.
He told them—" in a lagoon." After a while he brought
her back to Ornyauwa, but when they came up to the
lagoon they both fell dead. When people came they
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 201
found the two, the lover and his lass, lying dead by the
lagoon.^
A short distance from Pantianwa is the baby auwa.
Milkwood trees are struck for girl babies and gum trees for
boy babies. Women who desire babies take part in the cere-
mony and as the trees are struck their names are called out.
Women who do not want babies keep away from this cere-
mony, and are afraid to swim in the lagoon or to drink the
water lest they should become pregnant.
Another interesting totem is the bull-roarer which is used
in connection with the young men's initiation ceremony. It is
presented to the young men and they see it for the first time
at their first initiation and are taught how to swing it. The
auzva (totem centre) of the bull-roarer is at Kulepan on the
Watson River. A legend tells of the original finding of a
bull-roarer in this place, and points the moral as to the evil
consequences of breaking the taboo imposed upon young men
during the initiation ceremony according to which they may
not speak to women nor eat meat. The legend runs as
follows : Some young men left camp before the end of their
initiation anci took their spears with them (two old men saw
them go). They went up the Archer River to a flying-fox
camp, and there the boys saw some young girls swimming in
the water. They sat down and prepared their spears, then
set off for the flying-fox camp. They speared the flying-foxes
and brought them back, the girls helping to cook them in
ant-bed ovens. They then returned for more flying-foxes,
each taking some girls with him. When they returned the
flying-fox in the ant-bed oven had come to life and spoke to
them. They were very frightened. They then looked up
and saw a cloud of flying-foxes above them. These swooped
down, seized the young men and carried them away, and
they were never seen again. This was their punishment for
ignoring the laws of their tribe. The girls too were frightened
and sank beneath the water, but one girl was left behind. As
she went she saw something lying on the ground, a bull-
roarer, and swung it. Then she too sank beneath the water,
leaving the bull-roarer behind. It was found afterwards by
a man, and since that time no woman has ever been allowed
1 U. McConnel, op. cil. pp. 198-200,
202 TO TEMISM IN A US TRA LIA B K . i
to see or use a bull-roarer. Men keep them for themselves
and do not show them to the women.
^
The dingo or dog is an important asset to the daily life
of the people. It guards the camp, hunts game, and is
trained not to eat its quarry. It is prized as a domestic pet,
some clans giving totemic names to their dogs. Men will
build a special shelter for a dingo bitch with pups, and
women will carry the pups from one camp to another no
matter how heavily laden they may be, whereas they will eat
the pups of wild dingoes. The dingo totem centre is one of a
string of deep lagoons running back from the Archer River
towards the coast. It is said that if anyone should try to fish
in this lagoon the dingo at the bottom would cut his line
and take the hook. Near by is a water-hole where the female
dingoes dwell and between the two is a flat space levelled by
the water, where the male and female dingoes come up to
play at night. Away to the south of these lagoons the open
melon-hole country stretches towards the Kendall River. On
the edge of this country, which is the natural habitat of
the kangaroo, is the auwa (totem centre) of the kangaroo.
Probably this swamp is where the kangaroos come to drink,
water-holes being scarce in the melon-hole country. Members
of the kangaroo clan seem to belong equally to the dingo
and bream clans and form a link between the Archer River
and Kendall River groups. The emu totem has an interesting
legend which describes a brawl between two emu and native
companion men, who belong to opposite moieties, and
accounts for the origin of the emu and native companion by
the transformation of these men into their totemic animals
after death. This mythological identification of the dead with
the totemic animal which represents the clan is but a logical
extension of the belief that the ghosts of the dead appear in
the form of the totemic animal in the vicinity of the auwa
(totem centre), their presence in this spot being incidental to
the part taken by them as mediators between man and Nature
in the " increase " ceremony. The emu auwa (totem centre)
consists of a shallow hole or nest under the trees by the edge
of the Kendall River. There were once two eggs in the nest
which the pulwaiva (totem) has now removed because no
^ U. McConnel, op. cit. pp. 200-201.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 203
one has cared for the nest. The only remaining man of the
clan has not been near the ground for years. On top of the
bank was another nest which also had eggs in it at one time.
There is a waterway from the nest on the bank to the one
by the river, which is said to be the pathway by which the
emu puhvaiya (totem) came down to drink. An emu man
and his wife had plenty of children. He hid all but two of
them. These two played beside him as he slept by the nest.
The others played on the bank above. A native companion
man came with a big mob of children. The emu man said,
" You have a lot of children, I have only two !
" and he
killed the children of the native companion man. Whilst he
slept the native companion man took gum from the ironwood
tree, heated it in the fire, and smeared it on the emu man's
back. The emu man woke up yelling and jumping. As he
jumped he made holes where his feet touched the ground
and water oozed up in them like well-water. These formed
the big water-holes and lagoons in the vicinity. He then got
gum from the grass tree, heated it in the fire, and burnt the
head of the native companion man. His wife meanwhile had
gone to find the crow doctor up at the head of the Kendall
River and brought him back with her. The crow doctor
sucked the emu man and treated him, but in vain—he swelled
up and died. At his death he changed into an emu with a
mark behind where the native companion had burnt him,
and went down under the water taking with him his wife
whom he had killed for neglecting his children. From them
came many emu. This caused the water to rise higher and
higher till the lagoons and water-holes joined together and
formed the river. The other man died from the wound on
his head and turned into a native companion with a red mark
on his head where the gum had burnt him. It was the crow
doctor who thus caused them to turn into native companion
and emu. This legend is like so many other Australian
legends which account in this nianner for the origin of animals
and certain natural features of the country. These stories
are simply myths of " beginnings " that deal not with creation
as a whole, but with those local portions of it with which the
clan is personally concerned.^
^ U. McConncl, op. cit. pp. 201-203.
204 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
The survey of the totcmic system of the Wik-Munkan and
allied tribes may be briefly summarised thus :
(i) The totems are drawn chiefly from objects of social
value, particularly from objects of economic importance, upon
which the clans depend for their subsistence. The compli-
mentary nature of the clan-totems reflects the economic inter-
dependence of the clans and the unity of the tribes.
(2) The totems, thus identified with its interests and senti-
ments, come to represent the clan as a kinship group and
symbolise its unity, and so in this indirect manner to govern
the marriage laws.
(3) The sentiments of the clan are naturally linked with
the clan ancestors who form its traditions and who, endowed
with miraculous powers by the mystery of death, are deemed
able to regulate the forces of Nature which benefit mankind,
and who are thus intimately associated with the totemic
objects required for the welfare of the clan. It is but a short
step for the totem which represents the clan to become identi-
fied with the clan ancestors. Myths and legends forge a
closer link by making of the ancestor a kind of creator re-
sponsible for the origin of the totem, usually in terms of a
transformation legend according to which the ancestor turns
into the totem at death.
^
The Wik-Munkan kinship system for the most part re-
sembles that of the typical Australian tribe in that it recog-
nises—
(i) exogamous and localised (patrilineal) clans ;
(2) division of the tribe or tribes into two exogamous
moieties ;
(3) (junior) sororate and levirate ;
(4) cross-cousin marriage (with modification) ;
(5) an all-embracing classificatory terminology.^
The Wik-Munkan system differs from the average Aus-
tralian type in not using a four- or eight-section system—and
in its peculiar modification of the cross-cousin marriage.
The Wik-Munkan make a distinction in terminology be-
^ U. McConnel, op. cit. p. 203. York Peninsula, Part III. : Kinship
- U. McConnel, " The Wik- and Marriage," Oceania, vol. iv. No. 3
Munkan and AlHed Tribes of Cape (March 1934), p. 310.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 205
tween the mother's older and younger brothers and between
their offspring. A man's wife is the daughter of his mother's
younger brother, and a woman's husband is the son of her
mother's elder brother.
Correspondingly, the Wik-Nantyara and Wik-Natanya,
besides distinguishing between mother's older and younger
brother, distinguish between father's older and younger sister
as well.^
" The eldest son of a family has a right to, and usually
does, marry the eldest girl or two in a family. If he does not
take advantage of this claim, it passes to his younger brothers
in order of age. But once the claim has been passed over it
can never be renewed, nor can an older sister be passed over
in favour of a younger one. This custom, which is known as
the junior sororate, works well, for it prevents rivalry and
disputes between brothers. A man may often pass on one
of his wives so obtained to a younger brother or clan brother
if the latter is still unmarried. A man is under an obligation
to take care of his older brother's widow and children. As
with the sororate, so with the levirate, a widow passes always
to a younger brother of her husband, never vice versa. ^ This
law, the junior levirate, is clearly reflected in the kinship
terminology. A woman addresses her husband and her hus-
band's younger brother, or prospective husband, by the same
terms, nionja. But she addresses her husband's older brother,
whom she may not marry, as pinyawd'a. A strict taboo
protects brothers from misunderstanding regarding each
other's wives. A man never approaches his older brother's
camp whilst his older brother's wife is present. Should he
do so and speak to her, he might create suspicion in his older
brother's mind by appearing to be interested in a woman
who is to be his wife on his brother's death. On the other
hand, since no such possibility exists between a woman and
her pmyaivda, a man may approach and speak to his younger
brother's wife without suspicion." ^
The customary or most orthodox marriage is that which
takes place between the children of " blood " brother and
sister. A man marries his mother's full brother's daughter—
1 U. McConnell, op. cil. p. 311. to :in elder brotluT of her late hush;in<l.
"
That is, the widow never passes ^ U. McC'onnel, op. iil. p. 327.
2o6 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
he marries back into his mother's clan, into which his father
married before him. A woman correspondingly marries her
father's sister's son. A man must give his daughter to his
sister's son if she is of the right age. A man marries into his
mother's clan, his sister marries the son of her father's sister
who is likely to be married into the mother's clan.^
" Ties of blood have a steadying influence upon the
marriage contract. The tendency to marry back into the
mother's clan is backed by strong sentimental preference,
and such marriages are likely to be more successful than
those contracted between less intimately related and more
distantly located clans. The link between brothers and
sisters persists after they grow^ up and form new family ties
of their ow^n. As a widow, a woman looks to her brother's
protection and seeks the shelter of his camp. He is re-
sponsible for her and her children until the mourning for
her husband is past and she remarries. During her years
of widowhood she will dissociate herself entirely from her
husband's family, observing rigid food taboos regulated by
her husband's brothers. Her brothers will help her in the
care of the corpse and in the final disposing of the body.
For months her brothers and sisters will assist her in collecting
the necessary food, which is then offered to her husband's
relatives, to the accompaniment of a mourning song and
dance. After the final ceremony is over her head is shaved,
food taboos are lifted, and she is expected to take her normal
place in society again by marrying her husband's yotinger
brother, or his equivalent. If she does not do this her brother
may exact a penalty. A case w^as reported to me of a man
who had killed his sister because he w^as ashamed of her
unwillingness to fulfil her social obligations. A man is
answ^erable for his sister's actions, and if she offends the
social code he is responsible for her correction. A man will,
however, defend his sister's rights in a just quarrel against
the family and clan into w^hich she has married. If it is his
mother's clan, conflict is not so likely to occur because of the
close bonds of sympathy between these two clans. If a man's
wife and his sister are exchanged between more distantly
related clans or tribes, trouble more easily arises."
'"
^ U. McConnel, op. cit. p. 332. - U. McConnel, <?/. «/. pp. 332-333.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 207
" Although a woman leaves her father's local group on
her marriage, she does not sink her identification with her
own clan. Her older brother's children are the nenka, her
younger brother's children are her pinyaya. It is she who
calls the name for her ka^ni (brother's son's daughter) and
pinyaya (brother's daughter) in infancy when adopted into
the clan. This child, who bears the same totemic name as
herself, may become her son's wife. It is common to find a
man's wife and mother bearing the same totemic name as
members of the same clan. A woman will visit her own clan
grounds whenever possible, bringing her children with her.
Her brothers will interest themselves in her children and take
an active part in their upbringing, initiation and marriage
settlement. The mother's brother is something of a male
mother to his sister's sons. In giving his daughters to them
in marriage he is providing for their future as well as that of
his daughters. A woman is no less interested in obtaining
for her daughter a place in her own clan on her marriage.
With this end in view she will instruct her daughters in her
own clan lore, so that they may the more easily make their
home there later on.
" These mutual arrangements seem to be the key to the
happy family situation found so often in an Australian
aboriginal camp. Strong attachments are forged between
intermarrying clans, and it is a definite custom to go on
intermarrying into the same locally adjacent clans. The
ghost clan on the Archer River, for example, intermarries
with the neighbouring kangaroo and dingo clan, and also
with the native companion clan on the other side. The emu
clan on the Kendall River intermarries with its neighbour
the native companion clan, and so is on the same social
footing towards it as is the ghost clan. The Wik-Natanya
bush rat clan on the Holroyd River intermarries with the
Wik-Nantyara barramundi clan across the river, and also with
its coastal neighbours the Wik-Natera spear-handle clan. It
is as if intermarrying families had settled near each other
for convenience (as the parents-in-law in camp life for the
same reason camp conveniently near, but aloof from, their
sons-in-law) and had established rights over the locality in
which they settled, exchanging wives and reserving these
2o8 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
rights for their children in the male Hne. Two locally-
adjacent clans which continuously intermarry form together
a '
company '
and are as it were on ground with inter-
changeable hunting rights. That is, a man has a right to hunt
on his wife's ground, and offers in return the hospitality and
privileges of his own to his wife's people. . .
." ^
" Although each occupied area provides certain food
facilities over which the resident clan has established rights
and control, food supplies vary in different areas, and re-
ciprocity of sharing food supplies is secured. It is generally
recognized that though a clan has hunting rights over its
own area, the control of the food supply by '
increase
'
ceremonies is not for its own benefit alone, but causes abund-
ant supplies in all other areas. Not only so, but it is generally
understood that areas specially rich or unique in raw materials
should send out word to relatives in other clans when the
supply is ripe for consumption. The clan in charge must
always initiate the first and ritualistic taking of food, after
which all are permitted to tap the supply.
" Thus whilst it is usual for clans to hunt on their own
grounds in small groups which follow their own bent and
maintain a certain privacy, it is usual when special foods
are available in certain areas for people to come from far
and near to share in the hunting advantages of their relatives.
Such propitious spots as '
panja '
swamps, water-lily lagoons
and river reaches where fish abound, are recognized meeting
places for all and sundry. These big camps afford a fitting
occasion for the holding of initiation ceremonies for maturing
youth, for the discussion of affairs of social importance, for
the rediscovery of old ties and the forging of new ones.
Relatives newly acquired are introduced and their social
position reconstructed. Courtesies, compliments, gifts and
gossip are exchanged freely. It is a time of gaiety, of renewal
of old friendships, as well as marriage settlement and ex-
change.
" In any large camp met together for economic or
ceremonial purposes, tribes will take up their position accord-
ing to the direction whence they come, N., S., E., or W.
Similarly, within the tribal camp families will group them-
1 U. McConnel, op. cit. pp. 333-334-
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 209
selves nearest those most intimately related, usually by clan
ties. Throughout the camp there extends from one camp
fire to another a chain of kinship, more intimate between
some families than others, closer between some clans than
others, and between some tribes than others. This relative
intimacy largely corresponds to the local proximity of inter-
marrying clans and tribes on their own grounds." ^
Wik-Munkan Mythology.—The myth is a recital of the
original creative activities of the pulwaiya (totemic clan
ancestor and hero) and the inauguration in the beginning of
the ritual which forms the precedent for its present practice.
As the pulwaiya " went down " into his appropriate autva
(totem centre) he assumed or " caused to be " the form of the
totemic object with which he is associated. The ritual is not
a mere recital of the original creative activities of the totemic
hero, but reflects chiefly the relationship between the totemic
hero and his clansmen of the present day. The ritual is
sacramental in that by this means they enter into contact
with their pulwaiya (totemic ancestor) who comes out at
their request and perpetuates for their needs the objects for
which he is responsible. Myths often have a currency as
legends or stories, but real inner meaning of the myths in
relation to ritual is known only to a few, and is the special
property of a clan. One man said he had " dreamed " the
ritual of which he was in charge, but that his father had also
dreamed it before him. The ritualistic procedure is appar-
ently handed down from one generation to another relatively
intact, but it seems that a man " re-dreams " the ritual and so
acquires the necessary mystical qualifications for carrying it
on.^
The myth and ritual of the bonefish and bull-roarer
totems throw an interesting light upon these practically
universal aspects of Australian aboriginal culture, the
" increase " ceremony and the cult of the bull-roarer. In
recounting it Miss McConnel tells us that her object is to
draw attention to the close link between myth and ritual and
the inner meaning which these reveal.
The Bonefish.—The bonefish auwa (totemic centre) is in
^ U. McConnel, op. cit. p. 335. Wik-Munkan and Wik-Natara Tribes,"
- U. McConnel, " Myths of the in Oceania, vi, i (Sept. 1935), P- ^6.
P
2 1 o TO TEMISM IN A USTRA LIA B K . i
a small creek up the Archer River, in which the boncfish
breeds, and below which in the river reaches the bonefish is
hunted at night-time with special spears in canoes by torch
light.
The myth describes how Wolkollan the bonefish once
lived as a man at Adeda with his brothers the ironwood and
bloodwood trees, and how he went northwards to visit his
sister Mai Korpi the mangrove. Quarrelling, he hit her on
the head with his spear, which is now the stalk standing up
out of the seed of the mangrove, and she struck him on the
back with her yamstick—the mark which she made may still
be seen on the bonefish. Mortally wounded they made peace.
Mai Korpi (mangrove) went dow^n in a flat place where man-
grove grow. Women gather the fruit of the bean-pods for
food. Wolkollan joined his brothers again at Adeda, and
bidding them farewell, went down under the water there,
promising as he did so that bonefish would come out in plenty
for men to spear for food whenever they came to this place
to chase them out.
In the ritual the bonefish-god (as Miss McConnel calls
him) comes out of a bloodwood tree covered with red clay
and riddled wath spears (it takes several to kill a bonefish).
He is both god and bonefish. At his feet kneels the suppliant
who fans into life the phallus of the god which appears to
rise of itself in response. Finally the fan is removed and the
hand of the suppliant is seen to support the phallus—an act
of disillusionment which is common in ritualistic procedure.
This fanning of the phallus is apparently the inner meaning
of the hitting of trees, stamping of the ground and sweeping
of the auwa (totem-centre) which usually accompanies the
stirring-up of the pulwaiya (totemic hero) in increase cere-
monies at the totemic centre. Beside the bonefish-god stand
his wife and partner in creation, who went down near by and
is to be seen in another ritual covered with white clay, also
riddled with spears. The white clay is perhaps symbolic
of the milkwood tree which is usually associated with
women, as the red clay of the bonefish-god is symbolic of the
bloodwood tree.
Elsewhere Miss McConnel gives us another description of
the same ceremony, in which she tells us that the phallus
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 211
used in the rite was made of wood. A photograph that
accompanies the article shows that the bonefish hero or god,
as she calls him, is personated by a living man, and that both
the phallus and the spear are attached artificially to his body.
In any case the ceremony seems to show that theWik-Munkan
are acquainted with the nature of physical paternity.^
This ritual is the possession of the bonefish clan (Wik-
Munkan tribe) and is performed especially at the Wintyanam
or second initiation ceremony, when the initiates, now men,
are introduced as it were to the secrets of the clan. The
bonefish ritual was performed for the first time for many
years when the last young man of the clan recently came of
age.
The Bull-roarer.—The bull-roarers are of four different
types. Two of them, called the moiya and pakapaka, belong
to the Wik-Munkan (bonefish clan), and two others, called
inoipaka (male and female), belong to the Wik-Natara tribe.
(i) The vioiya represents a young girl just entering the
age of puberty. It is a small leaf-shaped plain piece of wood
attached to a string and stick, and is swung by young
initiates at the end of the first part of the Utyanavi or first
initiation ceremony.
(2) The pakapaka represents a girl who is fully mature.
It is a longer and broader tongue-shaped piece of wood,
painted red and white and fastened to a string. It is swung
by initiates at the close of the Utyanam ceremony.
These two bull-roarers are associated in a myth with two
young tityana (initiates) who at the end of the Utyanam
ceremony break taboos by eating flying-foxes and sharing
their food with girls. As a punishment flying-foxes carry
off the initiates, and the girls are swept by the tide down the
river on to a rock, where most of them " go down," but two
find a bull-roarer and swing it with great interest, singing as
they swing, " What is this swinging into the clouds that is
forbidden ? That we two downstream are swinging ?
"
Then with the words " It belongs to us women really, we
have found it ! But no matter ! we leave it for the men !
It is they who will always use it !
" they place it in the crack
of a bloodwood tree and go down under the water. This is
^ U. McConnel, in Oceania, vol. vi. No. 4 (June 1936), p. 460.
212 TO TEMISM IN A US TRA LIA B k . i
the auwa (totem centre) of the nioiya and pakapaka bull-
roarers and of the young girl. The bull-roarer is now
taboo to women.
The ritual shows the girl swinging her nioiya (bull-
roarer). To one side sits Mai Korpi, the mangrove, who
belongs to the same clan, making her mangrove food. This
ritual is part of the Utyanam or first initiation ceremony.
Another rite shows the two initiates standing hand in
hand while the girl swings the pakapaka. The white clay on
the girl's breasts is symbolic of womanhood. The red clay
on the initiates represents the red of the flying-fox and the
white clay represents the mud with w^hich the initiates
bedaubed themselves to prevent the flying-foxes from seeing
or smelling them when they sneaked up to spear the flying-
foxes in the mangroves. This pattern is the conventional
one used for initiates in the Utyanam or first initiation
ceremony. This ritual is only shown to a privileged few.
The Tnoipaka (male and female) are said to be husband
and wife. The male moipaka is shaped like a phallus and
the female moipaka is like a larger pakapaka (girl bull-
roarer) and is said to be a grown-up woman. They are both
painted red and white. The moipaka is swung to attract
the attention of a married woman. If it is swung outside
the camp, she will come out of curiosity to see what it is.
The swinger then quickly hides it, for should a woman see a
m-oipaka she would no longer be curious and the charm would
not work. It can only be swung by mantaiyan, that is,
" strong men," who are married.
One myth tells of two mantaiyan (married men), elder
and younger brothers. They made a moipaka and kept
swinging it in turns. Finally they placed it in the crack of a
tree and " went down " into their auzva (totem centre).
(This legend is very suggestive of others in which the elder
brother makes a woman of the younger, who beconies his
wife, the ritual of which shows two male moipaka one of
which is said to be a woman.)
The ritual of the moipaka shows a line of men lying on
the ground with arms outstretched and their hands touching.
One of these is a " woman " and has a moipaka lying on her
abdomen. This is said to represent the married woman who
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 213
has as yet no child. Another ritual shows a line of men
similarly lying, with hands clasped (symbolic of continuity).
One in the middle represents a woman with a baby (made of
beeswax) lying on her abdomen. Those on the left of the
" woman " are men who were growing old. Then came
woman and birth. Those on the right are the children who
came after as a result of sex and birth. At the end of the
line stands a man who swings the (female) moipaka. The
ritual symbolises the continuity of life by means of sex and
birth. (Another myth, which belongs to the baby totem,
describes the making of the first baby which the pulwaiya
then placed inside a woman.^)
The bull-roarers thus reflect the various stages in the
development of sex-relationship, from the awakening of sex
interest at the age of puberty {vioiya and pakapakd), to the
sex life of young married couples and the acquiring by them
of children by this means.
Toxemic Hero Cults in Cape York Peninsula
The totemic culture of the relatively undisturbed and
dominant Wik-Munkan tribe, which is akin to that of the
neighbouring eastern and western tribes, may be regarded
as a " norm " for the tribes occupying a very large area in
Cape York Peninsula, extending right across the Peninsula
and for a hundred to two hundred miles up and down it.
The totemic stones at the rock-cod auzva (totem centre) in
the territory of the Kandyu tribe, near Coen, are comparable
to the totemic ant-beds at certain of the Wik-Munkan auwa
(totem centres). From all accounts the " story-places " and
" story-stones " of the eastern coastal Koko ya'o and Yan-
konyu tribes are of a similar type.^
After making a careful study of the Wik-Munkan tribe
in 1934, Miss McConnel was able to compare and contrast
its culture with that of the coastal tribes north of the Archer
River, which possess phonetic, linguistic, and kinship systems
distinct from that of the Wik tribes. In contrast, the totemic
^ U. McConnel, (T^f. (7/. pp. 68-70. Oceania, vol. vi. No. 4 (June 1936),
^ U. McConnel, " Totemic Hero- i^p. 452-463.
Cults in Cape York Peninsula," in
214 TOTfiMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
culture of these northern tribes seems to be similar to that
of the Wik-Munkan, though one may detect a somewhat
different mood. The heroes of the northern tribes seem to
"wander" rather more restlessly, and to be more hujnanly
active than the Wik-Munkan heroes, as they walk about
" looking for a place to settle." The y\f \\<.-M.un\^din pulwaiy
a
(totem) seem to wander over more restricted areas, and to go
down rather more unexpectedly and suddenly into their
respective " story-places " (auwd)}
A new niotive occurs in the myths of the northern tribes
in that when their hour is come and they are about to leave
the world they " share out their grounds " before they dis-
perse, and then proceed " to look for a place to settle."
Nevertheless, they do eventually settle in appropriate areas,
choosing a spot suitable to the natural characteristics and
habitat of the totemic objects into which they emerge. Like
the Wik-Munkan heroes {puhvaiya) they also are ancestors
{tilai or father's fathers) of the clans which occupy the territory
on which the respective "story-places" are now found.
Miss McConnel has the impression that the coastal people,
and the animals also perhaps, are less established in the
narrower northern end of the Peninsula and so wander
rather more restlessly than do the inland Wik-Munkan who
occupy a very good region and seem to be more deeply rooted
to the soil.^
Myths of totemic heroes are a curious blending of human
and natural characteristics and reflect not only the human
and social interests and activities of the people to whom they
belong, but also the characteristics of the objects into which
they are transformed.
The wanderings of totemic heroes usually reflect the
roamings of men of to-day on their hunting expeditions. A
myth told by the Leminiti, a northern coastal tribe, is an
example of this restless type. The native companion,
opossum, mudshell, white-crested pigeon, and crayfish tilai
(totemic ancestors) were, according to this myth, holding an
initiation dance. The native companion seems to have been
the leader, possibly on account of his dancing gifts. When
the dance was over they " shared out their lands," and then
1 U. McConnel, op. cit. p. 463.
'^
U. McConnel, op. cit. p. 463.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 215
began to scatter to their respective homes, which were
allocated to them. The native companion told the mudshell
to go up Norman Creek and the crayfish to follow down
Windawinda Creek, whilst the opossum was to go up 'Possum
Creek. The native-companion chose a place near the sea
and " made a nest " there ; and the " eggs " (stones) are to be
seen to this day. As the opossum, crayfish, and mudshell
wandered looking for a place to settle they collided with each
other on the fringes of their respective grounds. When the
opossum remonstrated with the others because the ground
was his, the crayfish and mudshell politely retreated down
their respective creeks, leaving the inland country to the
opossum. The crayfish made his home in an appropriate
spot on the Embley River near the mouth of the creek. As
the mudshell retreated towards the sea, he found all the
crested-pigeons camping near the sand-beach, cooking and
eating " red fruit." The jackass came up to the camp, had a
look at it, and then went and reported to his friends, who
were the enemies of the pigeons. All of a sudden the camp
was surrounded and raided. The pigeons picked up their
children and fled towards the sea, leaving behind them clubs,
spears, dilly-bags, and fire-sticks. There they all " went
down into the sea " and the mudshell " went down " in the
creek. These are now the totemic ancestors (ulai) of the
clans which occupy these sand-beach grounds.^
Similarly in another myth the swamp turtle, ducks,
iguana, and Torres Straits pigeons " shared out their
grounds." The duck put stones and made a nest, saying
" I'll go down here." But the Torres Strait pigeon said,
" I'll go further north and stay there ", so he " went down
into the sea." The disappearance of the pigeons down into
the sea northwards is interesting in view of the migration of
the pigeon northwards each year.
In a myth of the Ndra'anit, another northern coastal
tribe, the hero, Mbu the ghost, was going for a " walkabout "
on the sand-beach with his wife. They paddled their canoe
up a creek, then went back down the creek and followed up
the main river, fishing as they went. When they met Mbu's
brother, Tyit the fish hawk, they went back to the sand-
^ U. McConnel, op. cit. pp. 464-465.
2i6 rOTEMISM IN A USTRA LIA bk. I
beach to hunt sea-turtle. Mbu suspected his brother Tyit
of hawk-like greed in devouring the turtle he had been
charged to carry back to the camp. So they quarrelled and
Mbu was mortally wounded in the fight. After " sharing
out their lands " Mbu bade a last farewell to the land of his
ulai (father's fathers), and gave parting instructions to his
brother as to the disposal of his body and the great dance
that was to be held in his honour around his corpse. Accord-
ingly, the body of Mbu, whose incarnation is the ghost, was
prepared in the manner now used all over this area, by
disembowelling, drying, wrapping in tea-tree bark or placing
on forked sticks. In this way Mbu aptly assumes the role in
mythology of patron of ghosts and of rites for disposal of
the dead and of the tribal mourning song and dance. The
attribution of these burial rites, which have more cultural
affinity with the customs of the neighbouring Papuans than
with Australian usages, is interesting as a hint of a possible
culture connection with New Guinea. Nevertheless Mbu,
the ghost, is a genuine totemic hero of the mainland pattern.
Given that these customs exist on the mainland of Australia,
they must be accounted for in mythology, as are all other
social customs, ideas, and beliefs, by attributing them to
some culture-hero. The incarnation of Mbu as a " ghost
"
and his association with rites for the disposal of the dead is a
natural consequence of the belief that the spirits of the dead
assume the form of ghosts.^
Two mythical heroes of the Wik-Natara tribe, coastal
neighbours of the Wik-Munkan, were accredited with such
extensive wanderings from the direction of the north that
Miss McConnel was at first inclined to suspect them of being
migratory heroes, particularly as a material incarnation was
not immediately revealed. Mythology describes these two
heroes as older and younger brothers who came travelling
from afar out of the north-east and as wandering on south-
wards down the Gulf coast, inventing spears with stingray
barbs, and spearing stingray as they followed along the sand-
beach, creating also as they went the tidal rivers and the sea.
Clearing all the scrubland that is said to have stood where
the Gulf now is with a boomerang, they journeyed out over the
^ U. McConnel, op. cit. pp. 465-466.
c H . X TO TEA!ISM IN Q UKENSLA ND 2 1
7
Gulf taking the tides with them and " went down " in the west.
This myth has so many points in common with a moon
myth of the Koko-yalunyu tribe on the Bloomfield River on
the east coast, which describes the throwing of the boomerang
(new moon) out over the sea, the moon's first creation of
woman, and his institution of marriage, and so forth, that
Miss McConnel was forced to abandon her suspicion that these
Wik-Natara heroes were migratory, and to identify them as the
moon and the morning star, the journey of which bodies
across the sky from the direction of the north-east in the dry
winter season, when the coastal people are camping and fish
along the sand-beach, is reflected in the wanderings of these
heroes. The voyage out over the Gulf reflects the setting of
the moon and morning-star in the west, the road they took is
the silver track of the moon in the water of the Gulf, and the
tides follow these heroes as they do the movements of the
moon. A dance which is said to have been invented by these
heroes is now associated with a sand-beach clan. The
movements of the dance depict the gradual development of a
more intimate relationship between the two brothers. The
elder one gradually assumes a masculine role, making clubs
and spears, and generally dominating the younger, who in
his turn gradually assumes the role of the woman, gathering
wood, laying the camp-fire, cooking the fish in ant-bed ovens,
and so forth. The elder finally makes a woman of the
younger and marriage is instituted.^
The wandering of the sand-beach moon-hero is an
interesting contrast to the stationary moon-hero of the inland
Wik-Munkan, who, according to tradition, dwells at the bottom
of a deep water-hole, in which the reflection of the moon
appears. The moon-hero also is a clever fisherman. But
he does not use a spear with stingray barbs, he poisons the
water as is the custom in this region, and so makes men
jealous of his ability thereby to catch so many fish.
The association between moon and fish may be related to
the liveliness of fish on moonlight nights.-
The Kawadji or Sandbeach people of the east coast of
Cape York Peninsula represent a very distinct type of
Australian aborigine. They are essentially fishermen and
^ U. McConnel, op. cit. pp. 466-467. - U. McConnel, op. cit. p. 407.
2i8 TOTKMJSM IN A USTKALIA BK. I
dugong hunters, and unlike most Australian aborigines are
often great seafarers. All the Sandbeach men are skilled
canoe builders and navigators, and make adventurous
voyages among the coral reefs and sand banks of the Great
Barrier Reef, in search of dugong and turtle, and the eggs of
turtles and sea birds. To those whose acquaintance with the
Australian aborigine has been confined to the natives of the
interior, the contrast is a striking one. Kawadji (the people
of the east) is the name given by the Kanju and other inland
people to these salt-water natives, who comprise several
distinct tribes. They are still nomads—hunters and collectors
—but as they obtain their chief food supply from the sea with
the long harpoon and the multiple-pronged fish-spear, their
wanderings are less constant than those of the inlanders.
While they sometimes know hard times, their lot is never so
severe as that of the tribes of the interior of the continent.
It is true that they have long fasts and great gorges, but real
drought, with its attendant hardship, is unknown, and food
is in general fairly abundant. With the first rains of the
north-west monsoon season the hordes move camp on to the
open sea-front outside the line of the sand dunes, well above
spring-tide level, to escape the floods, and the mosquitoes
which come in thousands. There the natives remain
stationary for several months. Food is abundant, and there
is little doubt that the initiation ceremonies, with their
elaborate ritual, were formerly carried out at this season.
When food is plentiful the natives are in the best of spirits.
Food supply is the limiting factor in most of the activities
of primitive man, and in hard times even the best-tempered
savages become dour and sullen, even morose. Such, then,
are the Kawadji ; the Koko Ompidamo of Running Creek,
and the Yintjingga of Stewart River, Princess Charlotte Bay ;
the Ompela or Katanyu, whose territory extends from Break-
fast Creek near Claremont Point to Cape Sidmouth ; the
Yankonyu from Cape Sidmouth to Cape Direction ; the Koko
Ya'o, whose territory extends from Lloyd Bay to the Olive
River, and the Wutati of Margaret Bay.^
^ Donald F. Thomson, " The Hero pological Institute, Ixiii. (1933) pp.
Cult, Initiation and Totemism on Cape 453-458.
York," injournal of the Royal A^ithro-
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 219
These tribes were investigated by Mr. Donald F. Thomson,
Bartlett Research Scholar of the University of Melbourne,
with the help of a grant from the Australian National Research
Council, in the years 1928-1929. In his first expedition he
met with the Koko Ya'o tribe on the Lockhart River, and
spent four months with the tribe. He has given us a valuable
account of their totemic system, which in the sequel I shall
follow closely.
The Koko Ya'o are a typical salt-water people. Both in
material culture and in social organisation they are fairly
representative of the Kawadji group of tribes. The dual
division is well marked, the tribe being divided into two
moieties, called Koiyana and Karpeya respectively, which,
with the totemic clans, are the only exogamous groups. The
clan is the land-owning group. There are no chiefs, and no
central authority in the tribe, the small nomadic groups,
popularly known as " camps," for which the name " horde "
has been proposed, being independent, self-governing units ;
but it is evident that the Hero Cult has acted as a modifying
influence in establishing tribal centre or capital at Tolnonoma
(Upper Pascoe River) and so providing the basis for tribal,
as distinct from clan, solidarity. This, with the peculiar type
of totemism, described later, probably resulted in a greater
freedom of intercourse between hordes than exists in most
other parts of Australia. The regulation of conduct is in
the hands of the old men, recognised by the possession of
special knowledge and experience. All the Cape York natives
have the greatest respect for age and grey hair, and no man
who is not entitled to the honorific " Tjilbo " (the grey-
headed one) would think of raising his voice during a dis-
cussion of tribal affairs.^
This account of the influence exercised by old men in
the Koko Ya'o tribe furnishes a good instance of the common
Australian form of government to which I have given the
name oi gerontocracy, or the rule of old men.^
The Koko Ya'o are patrilineal, tracing their descent in
^ D. F. Thomson, op. cit. p. 459. the EngHsh language by its inclusion
^ I am glad to learn that the word in the Shorter Oxford English
gerontocracy that I coined for this Dictionary.
purpose has now been incorporated in
220 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA BK. I
moiety and clan through the fathers. Thus each horde
occupies the territory owned by the clan to which its male,
but only some of its female, members belong, that is, those
who entered it by birth and not by marriage. The horde was
formerly the war-making group, and the intermittent fighting
that was till lately carried on, w^as between the hordes of the
same or another tribe, but generally of the opposite moiety.
The opposition between moieties is strongly marked on Cape
York, and is an important factor in the social life of the
people. This is well shown at the boundary between the
Koko Ya'o and Yankonyu tribes near Lloyd Bay. Here
the linguistic distinction is not an important one, and the
question of whether a horde on the border line belongs to
the Koko Ya'o or the Yankonyu tribe is regarded as of less
importance than whether it belongs to Koiyana or Karpeya
moiety. The actual names of the moieties, Koiyana and
Karpeya, extend beyond the bounds of these tribes, through
the Ompela and Kanju tribes, and are found in only a
slightly altered form, as Koiya and Karpi in the Yintjingga
and Ai'ebadu tribes.^
Mr. Thomson was unable to discover any meaning for
the names Koiyana and Karpeya, but the natives always
claimed to be able to distinguish physical differences in the
eyes, face, skin, and hair. In the Koko Minjen tribe of the
Lower Mitchell River on the Gulf of Carpentaria, the moieties
were called Pam Lu'l and Pam Bi'b, meaning straight-
haired people and curly-haired people, respectively.
Mr. Thomson had an interesting example of the opposi-
tion or rivalry that exists between the moieties at the Mission
Station at Lockhart River, in which most of the remaining
members of the Koko Ya'o, Yankonyu, and Ompela tribes
have now been collected. There the favourite pastime of the
younger people was a kind of football. Members of these
three tribes joined in the games, but the opposing sides were
invariably Koiyana and Karpeya, so that the members of
each tribe were divided against one another, the bond
between members of the moiety being stronger than that
between members of the tribe. This opposition also finds
expression in the mythology of the Koko Ya'o, which tells
^ D. F. Thomson, op. cit. p. 459.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 221
that Koiyana moiety once had a monopoly of fire and Karpeya
a monopoly of water.
In the Koko Ya'o tribe the classificatory system of
relationship is found, two types of marriage being permitted,
that is, either with a classificatory mother's brother's daughter
or father's sister's daughter, and with a sister's son's daughter,
respectively, with zvhoni no blood relationship can be traced.
Marriage with an actual cross-cousin is prohibited. The
division of the tribe into four or eight exogamous sections
which occurs so commonly amongst Australian tribes, is not
found in the Koko Ya'o tribe, nor in the Ompela, Yankonyu,
Yintjingga, Kanju and Dia'yuri tribes, and Mr. Thomson
was unable to discover any traces of them in other parts of
Cape York Peninsula.^
I'wai (the crocodile), the Culture Hero of the Koko Ya'o,
was the leading figure among the Yilamo or Wulmpamo,
the ancestors of the present race. These " Big Men," as
the natives call them in English to-day, were mythical
ancestral beings who invented the present culture and
traditional stock of knowledge. They lived at a time in
the dim past, generally called by the somewhat nebulous
term omonoma, literally, " in the beginning, at first," the
favourite word on which to commence the telling of a
legend. One of Mr. Thomson's informants, an old man of
the Ompela tribe, which is closely akin to the Koko Ya'o,
told him that the mythical heroes or Yilamo were succeeded
by the Middle People, who in their turn were followed by
the present generation, who have seen the arrival of the
whites.
In the days of Yilamo, minya (animals) were men. Mr
Thomson's informants told him that to this rule there were
some exceptions, and that the dingo {Apanya) was never
a man. Implicit in the mythology and Saga of I'wai (the
crocodile) is the belief that I'wai, as well as the other Yilamo
(mythical heroes), were once mortal, not supernatural beings,
although they were endowed with powers not possessed by
men to-day. I'wai himself is regarded as having the form
of a man, at least at the beginning of his legend, although
many of the attributes that he possesses in the Saga seem to
^ D. F. Thomson, op. cit. p. 460.
222 TOTEMISM IN A USTRATIA BK. I
be those of a crocodile, particularly when he swims with his
initiates on his back.
Among the Yilamo (mythical ancestors) I'wai alone can
be regarded as a Culture Hero. It was I'wai who invented
the initiation ceremonies, the others were merely spectators
or " helpers." It was he who called meetings of the other
Yilamo to watch him " play," and the songs in the present-
day ceremonies are those of I'w^ai. The belief of these people
in the ancestry of the present race is particularly interesting.
Like all primitive people who are dependent on memory and
tradition alone, they have no definite ideas of the antiquity
of their race ; the present order fades away into the dim past
only a little further than the memory of the oldest of the old
men extends. Beyond that were the " middle People "
—
the human ancestors who followed the Yilamo and who
bridge the gap that they feel to exist between the Yilamo and
the present day. The Yilamo (mythical ancestors) handed
down their stock of knowledge to the Middle People who have
passed it to the present race. The old men in each generation
are the guardians of traditional knowledge, w^hich they pass
on to the succeeding generation at initiation, in the form of
songs and legends. No Koko Ya'o man w^ould ever think
of doubting the reality of the Yilamo (mythical ancestors),
for every day he has proof of their existence, in his totemism
and kintja (taboo) as well as in every natural feature of the
country, which he knows like a book, and each part of which
is indelibly associated with the Culture Hero and the Totemic
Ancestors. From his earliest childhood he has been accus-
tomed to meeting evidences of the doings of I'wai, and each
day he is constantly seeing physical features in his own land—
boulders, headlands, and islands—left by I'wai on his
Odyssey, giving optical proof of the reality of I'wai, and the
deeds recounted in the Saga of I'wai that he has heard the
old men, whom he had every reason to revere, tell and retell,
wath flashing eyes.^
The full Saga of I'wai has been recorded by Mr. Thomson,
largely in the native language, but need not be given here.^
The Koko Ya'o have totem centres of the usual kind,
^ D. F. Thomson, op. cit. pp. 460- - D. F. Thomson, op. cit. pp. 463-
463. 467.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 223
at which they perform ceremonies of the common Intichhi^na
or talu type for the increasing of the totems. These centres
were left behind by Yilamo, typical Australian totemic
ancestors, mythical beings who first appeared in the form of
men and later assumed the form of animals. These Yilamo
performed extraordinary deeds, the scenes of which are often
marked by stones ; sometimes the totemic ancestors were
themselves turned to stone ; but directly or indirectly they
gave rise to the " story stones " or totem centres of the
present day.^
The totemism of the Koko Ya'o, in common with the
whole of the Kawadji group of tribes, while it retains in some
respects a typical Australian form, has a number of new and
interesting features, particularly in the personal totemism,
as well as in the Intichiuma rites, first described in the
classical work of Spencer and Gillen.
Every adult member of the tribe possesses two distinct
kinds of totem which may be classed as follows :
(i) The personal totem, called na?-tjinio norntadji, which
he does not inherit at birth, but which comes from the mother's
moiety, and sometimes from her clan. Conceptional totemism
is absent, and the natives have a knowledge of physiological
paternity.
(2) Clan totems called pola (father's father), of which
each individual has several, shared by all members of his
clan, and handed down from generation to generation in the
patrilineal line. These are associated with Yilamo (mythical
ancestors), and are centred about totem centres or " story
stones," at which ceremonies for the increase of the totem of
the Intichiuffia sort may be carried out.
(i) Personal Totemism of the Koko Yao.—The personal
totemism is of a singular type. Although the Koko Ya'o are
strictly patrilineal, the personal totem, of which each individual
possesses one only, comes, not from the father, nor yet from
the father's moiety, but from the mother's moiety, and is
determined by augury commencing soon after birth and
culminating in the removal of an upper central incisor tooth
The personal totem is associated with a spirit called norntal,
and, unlike the pola (clan totem), it carries the strictest Kintja
^ D. F. Thomson, op. cit. p. 492.
224 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
(taboo). All the pola (clan totems) of the mother's and
mother's brother's clans are called nartjimo, but there is no
special personal relation between a man and these nartjimo
until one of them becomes associated with his norntal at the
rite of tooth avulsion. He is not forbidden to kill or eat any
^lartjhno, with the exception of the one associated with his
twrntal.
In order to understand fully the ceremony of tooth
avulsion, and personal totemism, some account must be
given of the belief of the Koko Ya'o in the life after death,
which is so closely linked up with the personal totem and the
dream life.
Every person, at birth, possesses two spirits. One of
these, the norntal, is that which pulsates on the head of an
infant (the fontanelle). It resides in the body only during
early childhood and with the closure of the frontal suture
goes to a place in the mother's country called the nartji
norntadji, the place of the norntal. The other spirit, the mipi,
or " ghost " as it is most frequently translated, remains in
the body until death, when it goes to join the norntal, with
which it has remained in intimate association during the
dream-life of the individual.
The intermittent sharp indrawing of the breath that occurs
frequently when an infant is playing or " crowing " is called
ka'anta. The ka anta is regarded as associated with the
norntal. When this occurs the mother tries to stop it by
putting a broad band of white ashes across the baby's chest.
If she does not succeed she takes the child's right elbow
between her teeth and " bites " it, at the same time calling
out the names of her younger brothers and sisters, own as
well as distant, who are kala and papa respectively to the
child. If the ka^anta ceases when the name of one of these
relatives (most frequently the kald) is called, the man is said
to take the ka anta, and the norntal of the child goes to his
nartji (clan territory). A special relationship is established
between the child and this relative, although he does not
appear to be distinguished by a special name. The pipi
(father) and papa (mother) of the child may not speak to him
until they have made ceremonial presentation of food, and
when the child is well grown, but before the avulsion of the
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 225
tooth, he and the kala (relative) must make a ceremonial
exchange of presents. Until this exchange has been carried
out they may not speak to each other.
^
The operation of tooth avulsion is generally performed
about the age of puberty, or a little later. In the case of a
boy it is usually performed in the period after initiation and
before marriage. The operation must be performed by a
member of the mother's and not of the father's moiety. Only
one tooth is removed ; in the great majority of cases it is the
right upper central incisor, rarely the left. The operation
of tooth avulsion is not kintja (taboo), but is carried out
publicly in the ordinary camp, and is performed upon both
sexes. The individual to be operated upon first washes his
or her mouth with clean water, then spits into a vessel full
of water, placed before him. The Wulmpanio (big men)
look and try in the words of the natives, to " make it out," to
detect a resemblance in the form of the spittle to an animal,
plant, or other object, from the pola (clan totems) of the kala
or papa (relatives) to whose clan territory the norntal (spirit)
of the child has already departed. If the spittle moves freely
about in the water it suggests either an animal or man. But
if the spittle remains stationary, and merely spreads out a
little, it is thought to take the form of a vegetable, or of some
inanimate object. This search for omens is repeated again
before the tooth is knocked out, but it serves merely as a guide
to the old men and does not finally determine the totem of the
subject. Not infrequently a female relative, a papa (mother,
mother's younger sister) may aid in interpreting the omen.
In the case of Ataparradi, younger brother of Pornjogobi,
the old men saw " blood all over," i.e. the blood-stained
spittle was diffused freely through the water. They cried at
once " Porta
!
" (red ochre). After the examination of
portents the operation is completed by placing a stick against
the tooth and striking it with a stone until the tooth becomes
loose and finally breaks away. Meanwhile the names of
the minya (animals), maiyi (plants), nartji (clan territory)
and personal names of the relative associated with the
kaanta are called. The animal or plant named at the moment
the tooth comes out is the personal totem of the subject. If,
1 D. F. Thomson, op. cit. pp. 492-494.
Q
226 TOTRMISM IN AUSTRALIA RK. I
as often happens, the tooth breaks as the personal name of
the relative is called, this man gives one of his pola or clan
totems to his mampa (elder sister's son) as his personal
totem. If the tooth hangs after being struck, all is well, but
if it jumps out from its socket, the victim has not long to live.
The end of a fire-stick is finally heated by friction and thrust
into the hole from which the tooth was knocked out.
The relation of a man to his personal totem is very
different from that to his clan totem, and many strict taboos
are associated with it. A man may not kill his personal
totem if it is an animal, and he is forbidden to eat it whether
it is an animal or plant. He may not speak the name of his
personal totem and either calls it yukai, a word used for a
proper name when it is taboo, as in the present instance, or
for a period following the death of a person who bore it, or
he refers to it by a more or less elaborate circumlocution.
If a man were to kill his personal totem he would be sick.
If another man kills his personal totem when he is near he
is said to shiver and become " cold sick." A woman whose
personal totem was kaonia (Echidna) told Mr. Thomson
that she had twice eaten her personal totem and had " heaved
up " afterwards. The personal totem of Ataparradi ^'a.s porta
(red ochre), a clan totem of his mother's territory. He was
not prohibited from using red ochre altogether, but he was
not allowed to take it from Ortortinon, his mother's actual
territory, although others were free to do so. But from other
places he could take red ochre. Again, it is the practice when
employing red ochre on a small scale to place it in the mouth
and moisten it, and then use it with the thumb and finger.
But Ataparradi would not put it in his mouth at all
^
Apart from the strict taboo on killing or eating it, a
peculiar relation exists between a man and his personal
totem. He acts as his guardian and protects him, as for
example when he is camped alone. Sometimes when he is
on a journey he may awaken to find two " devils " standing
near him. One of these exhorts the other to leave him alone,
crying " Poor fellow, let him sleep." That is his personal
totem.
To the relative {kala) whose totem he has taken falls the
^ D. F. Thomson, op. cit. pp. 495-496.
CH. X" TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 227
task of carrying the tooth to the territory to which the
norntal (spirit) of the young man (or woman) has already
gone. Generally he will leave this tooth at the totem centre
of the personal totem, most frequently in water, or in a tree,
according to the nature of the totem. The kala wades into
the pool carrying the tooth, and throws it between his legs
into the water. After it has been thrown into the water the
man to whom the tooth belonged may never drink from this
place, although others may do so freely. The norntal (spirit)
is intimately associated with the dream-life, and the totem
place is also called the dream place. It is therefore immaterial
whether a man asks " Where is your nor7ital ?
" or " Where
do you dream ?
" Throughout life, when a man dreams,
his mipi (ghost) goes to his totem place to join his norntal.
For this reason he may not be awakened from sleep except
by calling his name from a long distance. The natives'
conception of sleep is very close to that of death ; in each the
mipi (ghost) leaves the body to join the norntal. If a man
has a lagoon or water-hole as his totem place he may dream
that he is swimming there with his personal totem. If his
personal totem is a bird he may dream that he is flying with
it.i
W'ith tooth avulsion, a special relation is set up between
the young man and the operator on the one hand, and the
kala or papa (relative) at whose name the tooth came away
on the other. Once more the young man must make
ceremonial presentations of food to each of these people
before he may speak to them. In the case of the kala or
papa whose totem he has taken, and to whom has fallen the
responsibility of taking the tooth to the totem place, the
obligation is reciprocal. Not only may the young man not
speak to his kala or papa, but he may not smile or show the
place from which the tooth has been removed until the mutual
presentations have been made.
If the tooth has not been removed the mipi (ghost) will
be compelled to drink foul water—water containing maggots
•
—after death.
When they see a " shooting-star " the people know at
once that somebody is dead. If, as of course most frequently
^ D. F. Thomson, op. cit. p. 497.
228 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
happens, the star merely passes across the heavens, they say
that somebody from another district has died, but if a report
is heard, the watchers cry " Mumpa !
''
They know that
somebody is dead, and this his mipi (ghost) has come to join
his norntal in their own country.^
To this account of the personal totem Mr. Thomson adds :
" Ahhough at the outset I spoke of the rites kdanta poiyan,
and of tooth avulsion as '
auguries,' they are obviously
subject to considerable manipulation, and are under the
full control, in the first instance of the mother, in the second
of the operator and his assistants—all members of the
mother's moiety. For this reason it is probably of little
moment whether the totem is obtained direct when the
tooth is avulsed, or is given indirectly through a mother's
brother or sister. In either case the result is the same
—
the personal totem of the individual comes only from the
mother's moiety. Indeed, it is a foregone conclusion that
the personal totem must come from a mother's moiety, its
very name, nartjinio, mother's father, indicating this, and
I think that it is really to be regarded as a relic of a previous
matrilineal condition that has now been completely super-
seded. The only apparent purpose served by the use of
'
augury '
seems to be the outward appearance that it gives
of the influence of portents in the selection of the personal
totem, as if the operators—who are themselves members of
the mother's moiety—felt that less violence was done thereby
to the patrilineal principle.""
(2) Clan Totems of the Koko Ya'o.—The clan totems are
called pola (father's father) by the members of the clan,
and where it is not clear from the content whether a man is
speaking of his human pola or his clan totem, he will often
say minya pola, literally " animal's father's father." Al-
though the names^c/^ (father's father) and 7iartjimo (mother's
father) applied respectively to the two types of totem suggests
a belief in descent from the totem, no such tradition exists.
The natives do believe, however, that in the days of the Yilanio
(mythical ancestors) the minya (animals) of the present day
were men.
When Mr. Thomson questioned his informants about their
* D. F. Thomson, op. cit. p. 498. * D. F. Thomson, op. cit. p. 499.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 229
relation to \\\€vc pola (clan totem) they replied, " Pola like a
brother," but strangely enough, and in striking contrast with
the severe taboos associated with the personal totems, there
is no prohibition whatever upon the killing and eating of the
clan totem. We have seen that the Koko Ya'o are organised
into local totemic clans in which descent is patrilineal. The
number of totems possessed by each clan appears to be
extremely variable, and may be from six to twelve, or a much
greater number. Mr. Thomson found no evidence of a chief
totem, but in each clan there is no doubt that some of the
totems are more important than others. In a number of
instances the clan territory bears the name of one of the pola
(clan totems) of the group, but in none of these cases is there
any evidence to support the suggestion that these are principal
totems.^
Again we have seen that exogamous sections are not
found in this tribe, but that two exogamous moieties are
present. All important plants, animals, and other material
objects have been brought within the scope of totemism. The
totems are divided between the two moieties, and when a
man knows what another's totems are, he also knows to which
moiety he belongs. As the moieties are exogamous, it follows
that no man can marry a woman with the same clan totems.
It is a common practice among the Koko Ya'o and the
neighbouring tribes to name their dogs after their clan
totems, but never after their personal totems, and indeed
most of the names of the dogs are those of totemic animals
and plants.
Although not in any way associated with the life after
death, as are the personal totems, the clan totems are also
intimately bound up with the dream-life. If members of his
group dream of a man's clan totem during his absence on a
journey, they know that he is about to return.
Many of these clan totems are associated with " story
stones " connected by mythology with the Yilamo or totemic
ancestors. At these stones rites of intichiuma or talu type may
be performed for the increase of the totemic species by old
men of the clans to which they belong, but they do not
appear to be performed as regular season rites, as in those
^ D. F. Thomson, op. cit. p. 500,
230 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
described by Spencer and Gillen and in many other tril)es.
Such rites for the increase of the totems are not performed
for personal totems. A man named Pornjogobi belonged to
a clan whose territory centred about Mosquito Point, from
which it took its name. At this spot the dugong " story
stone " was situated. If the people noticed a falling off in
the number of dugong, a ceremony to increase dugong was
performed at this stone by the old men who claimed the
dugong as a clan totem. The stone was approached slowly.
The men then took leaves with which they struck the stone,
spitting and hissing through their lips, as they cried, " You
come plenty ! Come plenty ! Come plenty !
" In the same
clan territory was situated also the " story-stone " of the
large edible crab. Increase ceremonies were also carried out
here when these animals were scarce. As in the ceremony
previously described, leafy branches were gathered, and the
old men struck the stone with them, walking around and
splashing it as they cried, " Crab, you come plenty ! Come
plenty !
" Finally the leaves were thrown into the water.
^
In the territory of the clan Porn'yinon on the Middle
Pascoe River, there are a number of very important totem
centres, including that of Pai'yam the Rainbow Serpent. He
frequents a lagoon, the water of which is said to be black in
colour, and hot, and is believed to be the urine of Pai'yayi.
Mr. Thomson's informant told him that he had seen the
water shoot up from the place of Pai'yam. Sometimes
Pai'yam leaves this lagoon and goes inside a great stone at a
place called Api. Pai'yam is said to resemble a snake ;
he
has marks of many colours on his body and a great crest on
his head. Members of his clan, but no others, might swim
in the black lagoon, and the natives told Mr. Thomson of a
man who had gone to that place, and whose 7nipi (ghost) was
taken by Pai'yam. Mr. Thomson was not able to discover
any evidence of a totemic cult associated with Pai'yani.^
" The most unusual of all totems is wolmpilgobi, sexual
licence, which is associated with the '
woman story stone
'
at Tolnonoma. If they '
flash '
the '
woman story stone
'
at Tolnonoma, left by I'wai, they declare that the woman will
'
go wolmpilgobi '
(lewd or loose). My informants said that
^ D. F. Thomson, ^/. «V. p, 501. ^ D. F. Thomson, ^/. «V. pp. 501-502.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 231
this story thing was once '
flashed '
by a man who had been
pushed (coerced) by another who wished to obtain an '
out-
side '
woman, i.e. a woman from another place, for women
were difficult for a young man to obtain. He put on porta
(red ochre), matan (white paint), and normpa (charcoal) and
a special kenl (medicine) used to attract women. The women
all went zvolmpilgobi and ran after the man. . . . Now they
have stopped flashing this stone. This abstract zvolmpilgobi,
which possesses the women as a consequence of the painting
of the totem centre, is also a totem of the clan of Tolnonoma.^
" There is strong evidence for the belief that the cult of
I'wai (the crocodile) came into Australia through Torres
Straits. It is non-totemic and has been superimposed upon a
totemic culture in which it belongs not to one clan or to one
moiety, but to the tribe as a whole. The cult associated with
it is practised by all the clans of the tribe, and thus forms a
basis for tribal, rather than clan solidarity."
-
The territory of the Yir-Yoront tribe is that part of the
western coast of Cape York Peninsula which includes the
mouth of the Coleman River and the three widely separated
mouths of the Mitchell River, its coastal extent along the
Gulf of Carpentaria being about fifty miles, its inland extent
between thirty and forty miles. This area lies about three
hundred and fifty miles south of Cape York, and is bisected
by the fifteenth parallel of latitude south. The geography of
the area is in general similar to that of a region lying to the
north which has already been described by Miss McConnel.^
The tribe was investigated in 1933 by Mr. Lauriston
Sharp, under the direction of Professor A. P. Elkin, of
the University of Sydney, and under the auspices of the
Australian National Research Council, on the recommenda-
tion of Professor A. R. Radcliffe-Brown and W. Lloyd
Warner. He devoted the months from June to December to
the investigation.
The tribe numbers at present over two hundred individuals,
but it seems to have been formerly considerably larger. The
^ D. F. Thomson, op. cit. p. 503. • vol. iv. No. 4 (June 1934), p. 404.
^ D. F. Thomson, op. cit. p. 504. For Miss McConnel's description of the
* Lauriston Sharp, " The Social country lying to the north, see above,
Organization of the Yir-Yoront Tribe, pp. 188 sqq.
Cape York Peninsula," in Oceania,
232 TOTRMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
decline in population has not disorganised social and ritual
life, about which little had been known and reported before
Mr. Sharp's investigation.^
The Yir-Yoront arc entirely surrounded by Koko-
speaking tribes. To the north are the Koko-Taiyor, some of
their clan lands extending north of the Edward River. They
are the least disturbed tribe of the Peninsula. They are very
closely allied with the Yir-Yoront by intermarriage and
common custom, having the same patrilineal moieties and
the type of kinship system. South of the Yir-Yoront, and
extending to the Nassau River, are the Koko-Bera and
Koko-Papun tribes, w4th a Kariera type of kinship and with
patrilineal moieties which are named as are those of the
Yir-Yoront. Inland ofthe Yir-Yoront are the Koko-Wanggara,
south-east of the Alice River ; and Koko-Mini from the upper
Palmer River, and Koko-Olkol from the upper Coleman River
also stray into this region. These tribes have kinship systems
of the Kariera type with four exogamous sections.^
The protection afforded by the Mission and the reserve
has maintained the integrity of the tribes in this region to a
surprising degree. The name of the Yir-Yoront tribe is
derived from their language, for the word Yir means speech.
The kinship structure of the Yir-Yoront is characterised
by-
(a) Unilateral or asymmetrical cross-cousin marriage. A
man must marry his mother's brother's daughter, that is,
his matrilineal cross-cousin, or some other woman denoted
by the same kinship term ; he may not marry his father's
sister's daughter. The rule prohibits the exchange of sisters
between two men ; a man may not marry the sister of the
sister's husband.
(J))
The tracing of the descent through three primary lines,
which leads to the recognition in terminology and behaviour
of five patrilineal lines of descent. The conventional five
generations are distinguished.^
The Yir-Yoront have a normal type of Australian patri-
lineal cult totemism. The pa^ilineal clans of the tribe are
grouped into two patrilineal moieties, named Pa^n Ltd and
^ L. Sharp, op. cit. p. 405. ^ L. Sharp, op. cit. p. 412,
^ L. Sharp, op. cit. pp. 406-407.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 12,2,
Pant Bib, which are the same divisions found in the tribes to
the north and south. Among the Yir-Yoront all the men of
the Pani Ltil clans marry into the other moiety ; but only
men of certain Pam Bib clans marry into Pai7i Lul clans,
ihe others marrying into clans of their own Pani Bib division.
The moieties accordingly cannot be correlated with the
kinship system and they do not function to control marriage,
nor do the natives think of them as associated with the
marriage rule. The natives can give no meanings for the
names of the moieties. Each moiety in the different tribes
has as its own peculiar totem a bird, talar, a night-hawk for
the Pa7n-Liil, and 7}mi-luhi, a small night bird, for Pani Bib.
The Pani Bib night bird is numbered among the totems of
one of the Pani Bib clans ; but another Pani Bib clan counts
the Pani Lul night hawk among its totems, so that the totem
of a clan in one moiety serves for the totem of the other
moiety. An explicit rule prohibits a man killing or eating the
totem of his own moiety, but normally these particular birds
are not eaten anyway. As usual in a dual organisation, the
moieties function ceremonially. Occasionally a member of
each moiety insults the other moiety by killing its totem and
hanging it up in a public place. The men of each moiety
then contribute various personal ornaments for the decoration
of their dead totem, and throw harmless reed spears at the
man who killed it. The dead birds are thrown away, buried,
or burned without ceremony. The moieties are also opposed
to each other in ritual combat in certain of the clan totemic
rites. Other characteristics of the moieties are derived from
the clans which compose them, and their solidarity is thus
chiefly derivative. The association of the clans in the moieties
appears entirely fortuitous.^
The Yir-Yoront clans are further grouped into " Coastal
People " and " Inland People." There is no correlation
between these divisions and the moieties. There is also a
ritual opposition between these geographical divisions in
some of the rites.
There are twenty-eight extant Yir-Yoront clans, the
largest numbering over thirty persons, while others are on
1 L. Sharp, " Ritual Life and Economics of the Yir-Yoront," in Oceania,
vol. V. No. I (Sept. 1934), pp. 19-20.
234 TOTluMISM IN AUSTRAIJA bk. I
the verge of extinction. The various clans are ranked to a
slight degree, their prestige depending on the tribal impor-
tance of the clan's ancestors, on the importance of the men
in the living clan, on the size of the clan and its domain, and
on the relative strength of the clan's position in the kinship
structure. One or more of the older men in each clan is
recognised as a leader, being termed " head man." To-
gether these " head men " constitute the community
gerontocracy or senate, to which men are elevated in part
by their relation to the clan, in part by their personal abilities
as generally recognised by the tribe.
^
Several clans may be associated in one exogamous
patrilineal descent line of the kinship structure. These
different clans of one descent line do not have a common origin
or common ancestors ;
their separate lineages extend back-
wards into the mythical ancestral times without confusion
like Euclidean parallel lines. The ancestors of such clans
may have acted together in some of the great events of tribal
mythology, thus providing sanctions for the peculiar alliance
of the clans themselves. These mythological sanctions are
especially strong when the associations of different clans
follows natural lines, as when the " Rainbow Serpent,"
" Water Snake," and " Fresh Water " clans, or clans whose
countries are near each other, are allied within one patrilineal
line. However, many clans are associated without apparent
sanction or reason. This linking of different clans by the
kinship system has important effects in the general clan
organisation.
The following factors contribute to the solidarity of any
clan : a common patrilineage which includes a group of clan
ancestors who lived at the beginning of time and continue
their existence as spirits into the present and future to the
special benefit of the clan ; a common country or countries,
made up of places associated with past, present, and future
activities of the ancestors and which, with their natural
resources, are under the exclusive guardianship of the living
clan, aided by the ancestors ;
personal names which belong
to the ancestors or which pertain to things, places, or
activities associated with them, and which are borne ex-
1 L. Sharp, op. at. p. 20.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 235
clusively by members of the clan and their dogs ; common
multiple totems, things or activities particularly associated
with the ancestors in the past or present environment, one of
which serves as a clan name ; that portion of the sacred
and profane tribal mythology which describes the doings of
the clan ancestors and relates the totems to them, and thus
to the living clan which has the special, but not exclusive,
guardianship of these myths ; representations of the ancestral
activities and totems by the adult men of the clan in the
tribal ceremonies which serve ostensibly to introduce the
young men of the tribe to their ancestral heritage ; the in-
creasing of certain totems, not necessarily belonging to the
clan, by individual men and women of the clan, at certain
spots within the clan domain.^
There is no special name for the remote ancestral time,
but it was very long ago. The ancestors of the mythical
times, with few exceptions anthropomorphic but endowed
with extraordinary powers, lived on the whole as the natives
live to-day. They created the chief topographical features of
the country, usually by throwing their belongings about in a
careless manner. They performed a number of Promethean
feats for the benefit of mankind, they established sacred sites,
and delimited clan countries and totems. Certain individuals
among the ancestors transgressed tribal custom, copulated
with their sisters or with menstruating women, and so on,
but these are significantly known as " crazy," and are
analogous to the " crazy boy " culture heroes of some other
primitive peoples, who antithetically exemplify what should
not be done. The ancestors exist in the present world as
spirits, an order distinct from the spirits and ghosts of the
conimon dead. They are now entirely beneficent, to the tribe
in general and to their own clan in particular, aiding the sick
and distressed, favouring members of their own clan, but
never directly injuring others. The present members of the
clan reflect the past of the ancestors in names, personal
characteristics, and relationships. An individual has his
" own " ancestor, a kind of alter ego, whose name he bears,
who physically resembles him, whose wife is his wife and
whose children are his children. A man calls his ancestral
1 L. Sharp, op. cit. ])p. 20-21.
236 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA BK. I
twin " young brother " ; he also thinks of himself as his own
" younger brother," apparently unaware of the philosophical
subtleties involved. The modern individual is not a re-
incarnation of the ancestor, they have no " soul stuff " in
common, nor has the " spirit-child " from which a man
develops any connection with the ancestral double.^
A majority of the Yir-Yoront clans have multiple countries
which are not contiguous, and which vary from an acre or
two up to a number of square miles in area. These several
countries are found in a rough north-south band, so that
there is little differentiation in the character of a clan's
countries. The countries of a clan, with their natural re-
sources, are owned by all clan members in common, the
ownership being sanctioned by the common tribal mythology
in which certain activities of the clan's ancestors are located
in the clan countries. The right of exclusive use of the land,
which is distinguished from ownership, is extended to the
children of clan women and to members of clans associated
in the same patrilineal line. People gather and hunt ordinarily
in whatever country they will. Thus there is practically a
standing permission which opens a clan's countries to all, but
this permission may be withdrawn by the clan in special cases.
^
For each clan there is one watery spirit-centre situated on
the clan domain in a lagoon, creek, or arm of the sea. Here
a particular male or female ancestor of the clan resides, whose
province it is to send out all the " spirit-children " which will
be born into the clan. These spirit-children derive from an
inexhaustible store, are transformed into some active natural
object such as a leech, snake, small fish, whirlwind, or turtle,
which can enter the body of the mother after it has been seen
or " found " by the mother herself or by the real or classi-
ficatory father, who transmits it to the mother. There is no
dreaming associated with conception, nor is any ritual
attitude adopted towards the supposed natural agent of con-
ception, which may or may not be one of the multiple totems
of the child's clan. The natives say that children are sent out
from the spirit centres only when people have intercourse ;
but it is not the intercourse, but rather the immigration of
the " spirit-child " which causes a pregnancy. " Spirit-
^ L. Sharp, op. cit. p. 22. ^ L. Sharp, op. cit. p. 23.
c H . X TO TEMISM IN Q UEENSLA ND 237
children " are sent out without consideration of the regularity
or irregularity of the parents' marriage. When a woman
discovers that she is with child, the circumstances of the
" finding " of the natural agent, which may have been
several months before, are remembered by the mother or
by a father. Since the responsible ancestor sends " spirit-
children " only of his own clan to the countries of his own
clan in his own tribe, the resultant offspring is affiliated to the
clan in whose country the natural agent was found. With
the aid of various obvious fictions the spirit-child is usually
" found " in the clan country by the child's real father. But
a child is sometimes " found " in the clan country of a
classificatory father, that is, in the country of a clan which is
associated with the real father's clan in a patrilineal descent
line of the kinship system. In this event the child is excluded
from its real father's clan, but is brought up by its own family,
with the result that a family may include several children of
the father's clan and several children of different but as-
sociated clans. The position of a given man's children is
thus fixed as regards the kinship system, but variable as
regards the clans. A person belongs to his father's clan, but
it may be the clan of the real father, or the different clan of a
classificatory father. In any event, it is clear that the fixed
patrilineal kinship group serves as the limiting factor in clan
descent, whatever may be the reasons which determine affilia-
tion to a specific clan within this group.
^
When a child is a few days old, the father accepts it,
and he or a classificatory father gives the child a " big
name," which is definitely associated with an ancestor of the
clan to which the child belongs, and thus publicly affiliates
the child to its clan. This name may at the same time belong
to an older male or female relative of the child. At teething
age a child receives a " little name," which is also associated
with the clan, and by which the child is generally known.
This ordinary name may derive from a relative or may have
been made up by the father. Every person receives at least
these two names. But since older persons bearing these same
names may die, and the names thus become taboo, a third or
fourth name is often required.^
1 L. Sharp, op. cit. p. 24. ^ L. Sharp, op. cit. p. 25.
238 TOTl'lMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk. I
Everything in the Yir-Yoront environment is associated
with one or more clans as a totem, and is thus brought into
relationship with the human society. This apportionment of
all nature among the different clans follows the principle
that whatever was particularly associated with the ancestors
of a clan, or whatever may in some fashion be linked with
these ancestral associations, now belongs to the clan. Because
the white man is called " ghost," all things pertaining to
him are attributed to the " Corpse " clan to which all ghosts
belong, since the white man and his culture have not yet
been associated with any ancestors in the tribal mythology.
Some of the totemic associations appear to be fortuitous, but
for others a natural or economic basis of classifications may be
found. Coastal clans number coastal phenomena among
their totems, inland clans, inland phenomena. All totems of
a clan are common to all clan members and some may be
shared with other clans, especially those in the same patrilineal
descent line. Except for the two moiety totems, there is no
taboo on killing or eating the totems. It is believed that a
man pressed hard by his adversary may escape by changing
himself into any one of his clan totems. A man may some-
times think of totems in terms of the kinship system as these
terms would be applied to human members of the same clan.
It is apparent that there is little formal recognition of the
totem apart from the ritual and mythology, but a knowledge
of these is sufficient to enable an adult man to give without
hesitation the clan affiliation of almost any object. A clan
derives its name from what might be considered the chief
totem of the clan. This totem is prominent because it plays
an important role in the ancestral mythology, with the result
that many of the clan personal names are associated with it.
But no special attitude towards the chief totem differentiates
it from the other totems of the clan. The ancestors are not
totems, but because of their extraordinary powers they are
sometimes confused with totems. The totems of a clan are
associated with the moiety to which the clan belongs, but the
association is obviously secondary. Clan totemism is the
only type found among the Yir-Yoront : they have no sex
or individual totems.^
^ L. Sharp, op. cit. p. 26.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 239
As the daily technical activities and kinship behaviour of
the Yir-Yoront reproduce the ordinary life of ancestral times,
so the totemic group ritual reproduces the extraordinary
doings of the tribal ancestors. The ritual life of the group
may best be described in terms of the sacred rites and rites
with which the tribe is intimately associated, as far as these
have been recorded, the record not being necessarily complete.
There are at least twenty-five " sacred grounds." These are
monuments commemorating some ancestral event which
happened at the spot where they are situated, and they are
named after soine feature of this event. The monument
consists of one or more stones ; all stones, except a poor
conglomerate which is not used for this purpose, having to be
imported, and so lending additional value to the site. Ten
of these monuments are " little sacred grounds " and have
no taboos or rites connected with them, and are generally
uncared for. These, and the myths connected with them,
are openly known to all members of the community. Fifteen
" big sacred grounds " are taboo to women, children, and
all men not properly introduced to them. The stones of these
latter sites are considered dangerous in themselves, and as-
sociated with them is a tabooed area of varying size. Some
of the myths accounting for the establishment of the sites in
ancestral times are secret. The clans in whose territories
the sites are found own them and the associated ceremonies ;
they have special charge of keeping up the sites, enforcing
the taboos, and introducing the uninitiated, but they are
aided by all tribesmen who have been properly introduced.
At six of these " big sacred grounds " the rites consist of a
simple introduction, following the ancestral example, to the
stones and to two or three different kinds of food found near
the site ;
thereafter the initiate may enter the tabooed area
and hunt or gather the tabooed food there, though over-
indulgence leads to dire physical disabilities. The introduc-
tion to these six rites may be made at any time of the year.
The tabooed foods are not necessarily totems of the clans in
charge, and there is absolutely no associated idea of increasing
these foods. A ceremony which is purely historical, but which
includes the introduction of the uninitiated, is performed at
three other sites. This rite is of general tribal significance,
240 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA liK. I
but while the clan which owns the site is in charge, members
of other clans represent their own clan ancestors in the many
episodes of the ceremony. At the six remaining " big sacred
grounds " group increase ceremonies are performed, all men
who have been introduced to the ceremony participating.
These rites are also historical in character. But it is expressly
affirmed that they increase certain things, and these things
play a prominent part in the myths of the rite, although
nothing is expressly said or done during the ceremony about
increasing them. In three cases the things increased (sweet-
hearts and children, children and turkey) are associated as
totems with the clan which owns the site and ceremony ; in
the other three cases (diver ducks twice and wallaby) there is no
association between the totems and the clans in charge.^
Thus of the twenty-five recorded permanent sacred sites,
only six are ostensibly associated with increase ceremonies.
It should be noted, however, that the stones of a large
majority of these sites, " big " and " little," are believed
to represent, in order of frequency, eggs of birds, after
which many sites are named, the organs of generation, and
excrement.
The Yir-Yoront participate in at least ten other group
ceremonies, but these are associated wath different sites,
which are not permanently sacred or tabooed. The areas
where the secret parts of these rites are performed year after
year are tabooed only for the duration of the ceremonies
and for a short period thereafter. Five of these ceremonies
are purely historical : three similar rites, dealing with the
" Rainbow Serpent," are held in three separate countries of
that clan ; another is held in " Corpse " clan country, and
deals primarily with that subject, but the fifth, dealing with
crocodiles, is not held in the " Crocodile " clan country. Of
these ceremonies not connected with sacred grounds, three
are increase rites, two of them for the increase of wallabies
are exactly similar to that mentioned above, which is
associated with a sacred ground, and, as in that case, the
officiating clan does not number wallaby among its totems,
nor is the animal especially prolific near the places where the
rites are performed. The third ceremony in this category
^ L. Sharp, op. cit. p. 27.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 241
is for the increase of turtle, which is a totem of the clan in
charge.
This somewhat numerical presentation, which has perhaps
indicated the complexity and confusion of the variety of ideas
lying behind the group rites of the Yir-Yoront, may be
summarised from a slightly different point of view. The Yir-
Yoront participate in nine group ceremonies, which are
believed to increase six different things, which are totems of
the clan in charge of the rite in only four cases, and the rites
are held at permanent " sacred grounds " in only six cases.
The objects to be increased are not especially abundant in
the region where the rites are held. There are eight purely
historical rites, three (which are the same) being held at
" sacred grounds."^
The ceremonies which have been mentioned are group
rites in which the different clans participate together. A
very different type of ritual is the individual increase ceremony.
It is this type of ceremony, rather than the group increase
rites, which seems the closer analogy of talu or intichiuma
rites, so commonly performed by the Australian aborigines.
Dotted all over the Yir-Yoront territory are numerous
" holes " named for various things, chiefly for fish, vegetables,
animals, birds, and insects, sometimes at a place where these
things are naturally abundant, sometimes not. These things
are not necessarily totems of the clan in whose country the
" holes " are found. These sites are depressions in the ground,
sometimes associated with trees, but never with stones. They
are not sacred, and their names, situation, and purpose are
known to the community in general. Only eighty of these,
representing some fifty different things, have so far been
recorded, but there are undoubtedly many more. Annually,
during the rains or the season following, one of the older men
or women of the clan in whose country this particular " hole
"
is found performs alone, but not secretly, a simple ceremony
to increase the thing associated with the site. The operator
cleans out the depression and then, variously, jabs it repeatedly
with a diggingstick,or knocks a spear-thrower or stick against
the associated tree, or throws dirt out in all directions, the
while muttering, " plenty, plenty," or singing out place-
^ L. Sharp, op. tit p. 2S.
R
242 rOTEMlSM IN AUSTRALIA BK. I
names of his own and sometimes neighbouring tribal
territory, but omitting names of places where the object is
not naturally found. There are variations of this procedure,
and the same object may be increased in different ways at
different sites by the same person. Each site was established
in the mythical times, when an ancestor associated the thing
in question with the particular spot of his clan's country,
though there is no evidence that the ancestor instituted the
increase ceremony itself. Beliefs concerning the present
increase of objects are fairly clear. " Images " of the object
which exist in the site are " made " or " brought alive " by
the ceremony. The ancestors do not explicitly aid in this
process, they are not called upon, nor did they necessarily
place the " images " in the site. Merely for the sake of
description, and with numerous obvious reservations, the
" images " which pre-exist in the Yir-Yoront increase holes
might be termed primitive, Australoid analogies of the
Platonic " ideas." The rite simply materialises these
" images " or " ideas." The operation is recognised as
distinctly different from that which makes or controls rain,
lightning, and crocodiles. A survey of the various things
increased shows that many of them are economically impor-
tant ; but other equally important things are omitted, and
are not known to be increased by clans of other tribes, but
simply " grow by themselves." A good many things which
are of no apparent social concern w^hatsoever are also in-
creased, as well as things which are definitely anti-social.
The native does not believe that he must increase runaway
wives, diarrhoea, poisonous snakes, hornets, mosquitoes,
and so on, for the continued w^elfare of society or because he
must " support Nature." The inconsistencies of the system
are difficult to explain, though it may be superficially con-
cluded that the native is simply partially recognising and
perhaps co-operating in the inevitable processes of Nature
in his environment.^
" In this discussion of clans and the totemism associated
wdth the clans," observes Mr. Sharp in conclusion, " nothing
has been said of hordes. The typical Australian horde
hardly appears as a separate entity in the Yir-Yoront social
^ L. Sharp, op. cit. pp. 30-31.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 243
pattern. It is most nearly approximated by the patrilineal
clan, which is the autonomous land-owning unit, and
exogamous. Because of factors resulting from the division
of a clan's land into separate lots, and because an individual
is not necessarily in his real father's clan, the Yir-Yoront
clan-horde assumes a somewhat aberrant form. The camps
comprise fragments of many different clans, the individual
members of which shift about from one camp and country to
another, some being associated with one large portion of the
tribal territory which is considered their range, others with
another. Even during the rainy season, when the community
splits up into very small camps, the men of a clan are
separated and do not live together in their own territory as
a horde. This does not vitiate the sentimental ties which
attach a clan to its own particular '
home '
countries, which
if not often or regularly lived in by a clan member, are
frequently visited. In the arrangement of the larger dry-
season camps, tribes live separately if more than one are
represented, but within the tribal grouping the clans are
divided and mixed.
" In concluding this discussion, the importance of the
ancestors, of the social past, must again be emphasized.
From the point of view of the native, the ancestors are the
centre about which so much of his life revolves. The customs
and beliefs associated with the ancestors provide a mechanism
which relates the individual to the group and, with the group,
to Nature. They are the chief factors in the solidarity of
clan, tribe, and race. They provide the sanctions and ex-
planations of the native's world." -^
TOTEMISM IN OTHER TRIBES OF QUEENSLAND
The last tribes of Queensland which I shall notice con-
sist of a group of tribes which formerly occupied a large
territory in south-eastern Queensland bounded by an imagi-
nary line drawn from Bowen to Cloncurry, thence to Thar-
gomindah and across to Brisbane. The tribes are now broken
up and dispersed, but fragments of them are collected in the
Settlement at Cherburg, near Murgon, where they were
^ L. Sharp, op. cit. pp. 31-32.
244 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA rk. I
examined by Miss C. Tennant Kelly during about four
months in 1934. She tells us that all the tribes included in
this area possess the marriage organisation in four sections,
with two moieties which are exogamous, with matrilineal
descent. The names of the moieties and sections change as
the language changes, but over a considerable area the
sections are termed Wungo and Kupuru in the Wuturu
moiety, Banbari and Kulgila in the Yangaru moiety. This
is so all along the coast from Bowen to Bundaberg, where
they change entirely and become Barong and Balkoin in the
Kapyne moiety, Dharwoin and Bunda in the Dhilbye moiety.
Despite the changes of the names of the sections and moieties,
the members of all these tribes living communally on the
Settlement were able to identify their right sections in another
tribe and language. The most commonly used words for
the moieties are Wuturu and Yangaru. Miss Kelly is con-
vinced that there is no meaning for either moiety or section
terms throughout this area.^
The division of natural species between the moieties is
not consistent for the whole area, although the list will
probably be identical for several adjacent tribes. Thus
opossum is always to be found in the Wuturu moiety except
in the tribes from Bundaberg south to Brisbane, but right
along the coast from Brisbane to Bowen, and right through
to the west, and among the Kalali of Thargomindah this is
the case. Fresh water is Yangaru along the coast, but in
the west it changes to the opposite moiety.^
The Kuam people of the Nebine River say that when a
man dies and goes to the spirit world his own yu7-i or totem
meets him and introduces him to all his relations, that is,
the natural species which are included in the same moiety.
These people also said that the reason why the frog was in
the opposite moiety to the opossum was because the frog
was the opossum's father ;
for there was a resemblance in
the way they hopped. According to the kinship system one's
father was in the opposite moiety. When Miss Kelly's in-
formants worked out lists of totems contained in each moiety
^ C. Tennant Kelly, " Tribes on 461-464.
Cherburg Settlement, Queensland," in - C. Tennant Kelly, op. cit. p.
Oceania, vol. v. No. 4 (June 1935), pp. 464.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 245
they invariably reasoned along these lines : trees and the
birds which made their nests in them were in the same
moiety ;
trees which grew alongside creeks, or in water-
holes and swamps, were in the same moiety as water, fishes,
water-fowl, lily-roots.-^
Sometimes her informants would give the name of one
natural species for both lists, as in the case of the Kabi Kabi
(Maryborough), where the carpet snake is in both moieties,
but there are four kinds of skin markings recognised, and
two of them go to each side. The Wierdi (Clermont) give the
grey kangaroo as Mapin (Wuturu) and the red kangaroo as
Dhabim (Yangaru), but in battle the men of these totems
would not fight each other. The Wierdi people say that
certain natural species belong to fire and others to water ;
opossum, bee, and sand goanna are said to " own fire," while
carpet snake, scrub turkey, lizard and porcupine " own
water." It was claimed that long ago " we (the Wierdi) were
a people who had fire and no water, and these fellows who
lived in the scrub had water, so we joined up. They gave us
water and we showed them how to make fire. They had a
clever man who knew the '
talk to bring water.' " -
Another interesting feature of this tribe is that each totem
is specially related to a tree, and at death a forked piece of the
correct tree is placed in the ground at the final resting place
of the deceased's bones. Thus emu is said to own box tree,
porcupine and eagle-hawk own brigalow, opossum owns kidji.
Soft woods were in one moiety and hard woods in the other.^
Although the moieties are known and recognised, they
are seldom mentioned in conversation unless information is
sought about them ;
on the other hand the names of sections
are used in everyday conversations. The greatest emphasis,
however, is placed on the totem. This establishes a person's
relationship beyond doubt. This totemic emphasis is also
seen in the burial rites. For example, at the funeral of a
member of the Kabi Kabi tribe which Miss Kelly witnessed,
the deceased's father went ahead of the cortege waving his
arms in a beautiful swooping movement in imitation of the
eagle-hawk, then again he would kneel and scratch in the
^ C. Tennant Kelly, op. cit. p. 465. ' C. Tennant Kelly, op. cii. p. 400.
^ C. Tennant Kelly, op. cit. p. 465.
246 rOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA BK. I
sand, like a scrub turkey, the totem of the deceased, and then
he would make curious twisted markings in the sand to re-
present his own totem, carpet-snake. The man's wife (de-
ceased's mother) was scrub turkey. The right marriage for
this man would have been with an eagle-hawk woman.
Therefore the father performed the ceremonies for the de-
ceased as if he had been a child of a " right " marriage. The
eagle-hawk rite was performed in order to ensure that the
deceased's father's father might recognise his grandchild as
he entered the spirit world.
^
Still in the more western parts of the area the moieties also
function in burial rites. Thus among the Kangalu of
Emerald the body of a deceased person was carried for a
time, the Wuturu facing the sunrise and the Yangaru facing
the sunset. At a funeral of a member of the Kuam tribe the
relatives were " smoked " by the members of the opposite
moiety to which the deceased belonged.^
Miss Kelly obtained numerous accounts of the ceremonies
performed for the increase of the totems, but only gives a
summary description of her results. A man of Kungabula
(Warrego River) described for her the rites for the increase
of kangaroos. Every such rite took place at a certain spot of
great sanctity, and these places were always most vividly
described.
Among the Kabi Kabi rain was " made " by a " clever
"
man. Accompanied by some other old men he ascended
Mount Ural at Miva near Tiaro. Near the top of the
mountain is a cave at the door of which a rare vine grows,
not to be found elsewhere. The stem of this vine when cut
contains a watery substance. Taking portions of the vine
stem to the very top of the mountain, the " clever " man talks
to Biral (all-Father), shows him the dryness of the land, and
mentions neighbouring friendly tribes who are suffering for
lack of rain. Cutting the vine into as many pieces as the
number of tribes mentioned, he throws a piece in the direction
of each tribe's territory, calling out the name of the tribe as
he does so. Miss Kelly's informant has seen the rain come
down in torrents almost immediately after this ceremony^
1 C. Tennant Kelly, op. at. p 466. 466-467.
2 C. Tennant Kelly, op. cit. pp. ^ C. Tennant Kelly, op. cit. p. 467.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 247
The Kuam (Nebine River) say that the first " sugar-bag "
(bee) was made by the bat, who found a sticky milky weed
which he glued on to a few cockatoo feathers ; it then flew
away. He chased it all around the country owned by the
Kuam until it came to a big cave called Ungwari ; but now
it was a bee. Afterwards the rites for the increase of bees
were always performed at this cave.^
A similar system of personal names existed throughout
the area. Three names are given to both men and women.
First the Yamba name, which indicates the spirit home of the
bearer. At his death his spirit will return to this place. Old
people on the Settlement many miles from their own country
longed to go back to their own tribal territory before they
died in order to ensure their spirit's safe return to its home.
Secondly, the Kujal name. This is held in common with
brothers and sisters. Strangers can know you by this name.
Thirdly, the Kyi name, which is a personal and secret name
rarely told to anyone except a close relation. The second
and third names are derived from the father's totem. Thus
a woman who was opossum (inherited from her mother) was
named for emu, for that was her father's totem. Her Yamba
or spirit home name was Butilbaru (a sandy creek-bed
" back home "), her Kujal name meant " emu moves its neck
this way and that," and the Kyi name meant " old emu
walking up and down." -
Importance was attached to dreams in which totemic
symbols appeared. If a man dreams of a carpet-snake and
this is his wife's totem, then he knows he will soon have a
visit from a close relation of his wife's family. The dream
is interpreted thus : an old male snake means the wife's
mother's brother. If it is wounded the wife's mother's
brother is sick and wishes them to go to him.^
Right through the area there seems to have been a taboo
on eating one's own totem. Sometimes the entire tribe
refrained from eating a certain animal or bird. The Kalali
observed a strict taboo on porcupine, which was believed to
be an evil spirit stuck all over with spears with which their
ancestors had brought him to subjection. It was considered
^ C. Tennant Kelly, op. cit. pp. - C. Tennant Kelly, op. cit. p. 468,
467-468. * C. Tennant Kelly, op. cit. p. 468.
248 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA BK. I
a breach of good manners to kill the totem of a person in his
presence. Usually the owner of the totem would turn away
and hang his head as if in mourning until the hunter had gone
out of sight with his catch. -^
A Kupuru man marries a Kulgilayan woman and the
children are Banbari, and so on. This is the ideal marriage,
and in addition the woman should be of the same totem as
the man's father—which, therefore, brings the man's children
back to his father's totem. One or two of Miss Kelly's
informants said that to marry " wrong " in the olden times
would have been punished with death, but on investigation
" wrong " marriages proved to have very definite rules
governing them. They were never contracted (a) with a
woman of the same totem, (^) with a woman in the same
marriage section as one's self, and {c) with a woman of " close
blood." The children of these so-called " wrong " marriages
always take the same section as would have been theirs had
the mother married correctly. Further, a person receives his
totem from the clan of his mother and mother's brother. It
is the latter who sponsors a youth through the Bora or
initiation ceremony, and who plays an important part in the
marriage ceremonies of his sister's daughter. He is, indeed,
at all times the most important man in the lives of his sister's
children. Moreover, this relationship is not affected by the
" wrong " marriage of his sister. The children are of the
same totem regardless of their father's section.^
All these rules are significant, since they prove that the
" wrong " marriage was condoned by society and had definite
laws to control it. It would seem that the totemic clans and
kinship and not the sections were of primary importance in
marriage and descent. True, the section system does group
together brothers and sisters in one section, thus by its rule
of exogamy preventing incest, but it is the totemic grouping
which is fundamental. Informants said that if persons of the
same totem married, a man's father would be of the same
totem as himself and therefore stand to him in the mother's
brother relationship. This, of course, would be " incestu-
ous " and would anger the totemic spirit, with the result that
^ C. Tennant Kelly, op. cit. pp. ^ C. Tennant Kelly, op. cit. p.
469-470. 471.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN QUEENSLAND 249
there would be no further increase of that particular totemic
species. Hence society takes precaution to protect itself
from such a calamity by placing all people of the same totem
in the one moiety and emphasising the brother-sister relation-
ship of the men and women in the same section. These
precautions are prompted by fear of the totemic ancestors
and the withdrawal of their favour in the form of food. The
sections are an added safeguard, though tribes without them
manage just as well. Nor do the sections function ceremoni-
ally ; throughout the transitional and mortuary ceremonies
it is the moieties and clans which constitute the groupings
and set the rules for the behaviour of all concerned.^
It is of interest to note the extent to which totemism is
retained in the life of the Settlement. Both full-blood and
half-caste natives, provided they were reared as children in
the native camp, have a very real belief and interest in the
totemic ancestors. Contact with the official and the mission-
ary have made them chary of openly discussing these matters.
They fear the ridicule of the white man, but at the time of
death one can observe how deep-rooted is this belief, and in
their grief mourners who previously seemed completely under
mission influence return to the older forms as if they had
never ceased to practise theni. This is all the more remark-
able seeing that all funerals are conducted by the missionaries.
A very general custom is for the father or, in the present
disintegrated society, any other male relative to proclaim
aloud to the spirits the good qualities of the deceased who is
now on his way to meet them. This was done by the father
of a girl whose baby died. He called out each night for about
an hour, until a new moon appeared. He called on the
totemic ancestors and then on all the people who had died
during his own memory, and who were any relation to the
baby.^
In conclusion Miss Kelly observes that " in such a tangled
society as that on the Settlement there is very little hope of
moiety or section organization surviving. Various tribes
have totems which appear in different moieties, thus adding
to the chaos, and sections do not seem fundamental in the
native organization. Also there is definite white influence
^ C. Tennant Kelly, op. cit. p. 471. ^ C. Tennant K^lly, op. cit. p. 472,
2 5 o TO TEMISM IN A USTEA LIA B K . I
operating on the ritual and social life which takes no account
of either moiety or section.
" But as yet there is no sign that the totemic clan system
will cease to function. The totem as a personal possession
survives. The important thing to-day is
—' What skin are
you ? '
'I am 'possum,' is probably the reply. '
I too am
'possum, we are brothers.' . . .
" The older people guard their religious secrets very
jealously from the young men and women who have been
reared since birth with white people. The young men are
not initiated and are therefore not suitable recipients of the
tribal lore and totemic secrets. They will, however, strive to
prevent the marriage of two of these young people who are
of the same totem Sometimes their warnings are heeded,
but in other cases white influence aids the younger generation
in its defiance. These marriages are always termed '
unclean
'
by the older people." ^
^ C. Tennant Kelly, op. cit. pp. 472-473
CHAPTER XI
TOTEMISM AMONG THE TRIBES OF CENTRAL AUSTRALIA
The totemic and social organisation of the tribes of Central
Australia have been described once for all in the classic works
of Sir Baldwin Spencer and F. J. Gillen, to which subsequent
research appears to have added very little, though we have
seen that Professor Elkin in 1934 was able to give us, from
personal observation, an account of the Macumba sub-tribe
of the Arunta.^ In 1926, long after the publication of his two
great works on the Central and Northern Tribes, Spencer
paid a final visit to the Arunta for the purpose of revising,
with the help of the few remaining old men of the tribe, his
former reports of their customs and beliefs. He was able to
verify the general accuracy of his earlier description of the
tribe, and to supplement it with some fresh and interesting
details. The new information is fully set forth by him in his
book The Arimta, a Study of a Stone Age People, published
in 1927, and is given by him more briefly in his last work,
Wanderings in Wild Australia, which was published in 1928.
From this last volume, which contains his final conclusions,
I will extract what he tells us of the totemic system of that
tribe, which may be regarded as the centre or pivot round
which his great researches revolved. He writes as follows :
—
" It was not until 1926, when revising our work amongst
the Arunta, that I learned more fully the meaning of certain
of the Engwura performances dealing with the Alchera
beliefs and what may be called the cult of the Chiiringa in its
association with the kuruna or spirit part of each individual.
" There are four terms that are of special importance in
^ See above, pp. 167 sqq.
251
252 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. I
connection with the fundamental bcHefs of the Arunta
—
alchera, knanja, churinga, and kuruna.
" The term alchera is one of somewhat vague and wide
import which it is difficult to define with anything like
absolute precision. It is not applied to any being, human or
superhuman, mythical, or regarded as actually existing, but
it is intimately associated with the far past times in which his
totemic ancestors came into existence, lived, wandered about,
and died. Each individual has his or her alchera, and here
we come in contact with the second term, knanja. Knanja is
the native word for totem ;
that is, the particular animal or
plant between whom and every individual a very special
relationship is supposed to exist. In many cases the native's
ancestors are supposed to have been transformed into human
beings out of the totemic animal or plant. The term alchera
includes it, and with it the original ancestors of the totemic
group, the natives' association with them, everything they
possessed, everything they did, and the times in which they
lived. If you ask a man the question, hvunna Alchera Jinta ?
'
What is your Alchera ? '
he will answer, Alchera nukzva
Achilpa, '
My alchera is wild cat,' or whatever his totem may
be. A man's alchera and his totem and totem group, or
knanja, are so closely interwoven in his thoughts that they
are practically inseparable. So much so is this the case that
the reply to either of the questions, Iwiinna Alchera unta ? or
hvunna Knanja unta ? will be the same, simply the name of
his totem. The word alchera can be used both as a substan-
tive and as a qualifying term. Sometimes the word alcher-
inga is used ; ringa meaning of or belonging to, but, most
often, the natives simply say alchera. . . .
" The word alchera is, however, not only used in this
sense, but is also the one commonly used for dream, as in the
following :
—
" Ingwendama, inwulla ; Alchera, erlia, ta eruka—
Sleep, last night ; dream, emu, I saw.
" Ingwendama, inwulla ; Alchera, atnitta nukwa, kurna,
ta eruka—Sleep, last night, dream, my stomach, bad, I saw.
That is, last night I dreamt I was bad inside or I felt bad
inside. Seeing and feeling are very closely akin to one
another in the native mind.
CH. XI THE TRIBES OF CENTRAL AUSTRALL4 253
" From the above it is very evident that the alchera is not
appHed to any individual and, further, that one of its funda-
mental meanings is dream. As a matter of fact it is signifi-
cant to find that natives who can speak, as many of them now
can, a little English, when referring to a man's alche?-a and
everything associated with it, always call it '
his dreaming.'
" The third and fourth terms, churinga and kuruna, are
closely bound together. The chtiringa are, one and all, con-
nected with the totems. At the present day the whole country
occupied by the Arunta is divided into a very large number
of larger or smaller areas, each of which is associated with
some special totem, kangaroo, emu, Makea tree, and so
forth, and in each such area there is a sacred storehouse,
often a cleft in the rocks or the hollow stem of an ancient
gum tree, in which the churinga of the group are safely pre-
served under the charge of the head-man of that local totemic
group. These storehouses are called Pertalchera, from Perta
a rock and Alchera. No w^oman, of course, ever ventures
near to one of these, and no man dare touch the churinga
that they contain without the consent, and almost invariably
in the presence, of the head-man who is in supreme control,
not only of it but of the most important ceremony associated
with each totem group, the object of which is to ensure the
increase of the totemic animal or plant.
" The fourth term, kuruna, is the name applied to the
spirit part of each individual member of the tribe. Each of
them has his, or her, special churinga, and between this and
his, or her, kuruna, there exists a most intimate relationship.
Originally the kuruna came out of the churinga and, when a
native dies, it goes aw^ay to the Pertalchera where its churinga
is stored, and there it remains until such time as it chooses to
undergo reincarnation. As the result of a splitting in the
early alchera days, each kuruna has also a double or another
self called Arumburinga which always remains associated
with the churinga.
" The earliest traditions of the Arunta deal with the origin
of the ancestors of the various local totemic groups in the
alchera. There are various traditions in different parts of
the tribe, which occupies a great extent of country, but they
all deal with one or more great superhuman Beings called
254 TOTEMISM IN AUSTRALIA bk.i
Numbakulla, a word that means '
self-existing,' or '
out of
nothing.' They it was who did everything in the early alchera
times, created the country, or at least its main features, made
churinga and the kurunas associated with them, founded the
totem groups, gave and taught the natives everything they
now possess and know.
" The Arunta is a very large tribe and so there are many
differences in traditions in different parts, but, in all of them,
a Numbakulla is associated in some way or another with
the origin of men and women. According to one tradition no
actual men or women existed at first in the alchera but only
incomplete creatures, half human, half animal. The Arunta
savage has worked out for himself a crude theory of evolution.
According to this tradition, he believes that, in the alchera^
the whole country was covered with Kwatcha alia, or salt
water, which was drawn away to the far north by people who
always wanted to get it and keep it for themselves. It is a
curious coincidence that this tradition reflects, in general out-
line, what geological evidence indicates to have been the case,
so far as the existence of a great inland sea, once covering the
country now occupied by the Arunta, is concerned. In those
early days there were only groups of what are called Inapatua,
or incomplete human beings, who dwelt on the shores of the
salt water. They had no distinct limbs and ate no food but
looked just like human beings, all huddled up into rounded
masses, in which only the outlines of the different parts of
the body could be seen. It was supposed that some of them
were being changed into men out of lizards, others out of rats,
kangaroos, snakes, emus, parakeets, Makea trees and so on-
Far away, in the Alkira aldorla, that is, the Western sky,
there lived two great Numbakullas. Coming down to earth,
armed with great stone knives, they took hold of the Inapatua,
one after the other. A few cuts released the arms and legs ;
fingers and toes were added by making four cuts at the end
of each limb ; the nostrils were bored by the fingers. A slit
on each side separated the eyelids and a cut with the knife
made the mouth, which was pulled open several times to make
it flexible. Thus, out of animals and plants, arose the original
groups of human beings who, when they were formed, were
naturally associated with the same animals and plants. The
CH. XI THE TRIBES OF CENTRAL AUSTRALIA 255
particular one with which the human ancestor was thus closely
associated, out of which he was supposed to have been
evolved, is spoken of as that individual's totem or Knanja,
and thus we see the earliest origin of totemic groups amongst
the Central tribes, or rather the savages' idea in regard to
their origin. To the Arunta man of the present day, the
connection between him and his totem is a very close and
intirnate one, in fact the totem of any man is regarded as
himself. As a native once said to us, when we were discussing
the matter with him, '
That one,' pointing to his photograph,
w^hich we had just taken, '
is just the same as me ; so is a
kangaroo (his totem).'
" According to this tradition, when once they had come
into existence, these ancestral people, or at least many of them,
started to walk across the country—lizard people along one
track, kangaroo people along another, frog people along
another and so on, right through the various totem groups.
Every one of these ancestors possessed, and often carried with
him, or her, a sacred churhiga, with which the spirit part of
the individual was supposed to be intimately associated. As
they wandered over the country they made all the natural
features—mountains, valleys and plains, creeks, clay pans,
water-holes and gorges—that are now familiar to the natives.
At certain places they halted to perform ceremonies, and
there certain members of the different parties died, or, as the
natives say, went down into the ground ; that is, their bodies
did, but their spirit parts remained above in company with
the churinga and stayed behind when the party moved on,
remaining in some rock or tree that was ever afterwards sacred
to them and was called that individual's Perta knatija or Rola
hianja, that is, his totemic rock or tree. It very often arose
to mark the spot where the ancestor died.
" When all their wanderings are plotted down on a map,
it looks just as if the whole Arunta country were crossed by
an intricate network of railway lines, with hundreds of
stations representing the stopping-places of the different
totemic groups, where the spirits have remained, forming
w^hat are called knanikillas, or local totem places, and at
each one of these there is the secret hiding-place, where the
churinga are kept, which is called a pertalchera.
256 TOTEMISM IN A USTRAUA BK. I
" The old men know all about these things and what
spirits inhabit different places—kangaroos in one, wild cats
in another, emus, rats, snakes, fishes in others, and so on.
When a child is born it is simply one of these old ancestors
who has undergone reincarnation, and thus every individual
in the tribe gets his, or her, totem name and belongs to the
same totemic group as did his ancestor. In most Australian
tribes the totem of a child is inherited from either its father
or its mother, but in the Arunta this is not so.
" The Arunta firmly believe that a child, in spirit form,
if it chooses to do so, can enter any woman who comes near
to its Knanja tree or rock."^
This concludes my survey of the more important dis-
coveries that have been made in Australian totemism since
the publication of my book Totemism and Exogam,y in 1910.
The evidence which I have adduced in that and my present
work may be regarded as sufficient to prove that among
the rude aborigines of the Continent totemism has been of
universal prevalence and great antiquity. Of its universal
prevalence the facts which I have cited are testimony enough
:
of its great antiquity the natives themselves are witnesses,
for they unanimously attribute the origin of totemism to
certain great mythical or superhuman beings, their remote
ancestors in that dim past which is the most distant time to
which their traditions and memory go back.
Exogamy, the fundamental law of the whole marriage
system of the aborigines, is itself no doubt ancient in Australia,
but seems to have been later in origin than totemism, for
some of the natives have a tradition of a time before its
introduction, when the sexes enjoyed complete freedom of
intercourse without any restrictions whatever, and even the
nearest relations cohabited without compunction or shame.
^
But by comparison with the venerable age of totemism,
exogamy itself might almost seem to have been a modern
innovation ; at least this is strongly suggested by the observa-
tion that in its more complex forms of the division of a tribe
into four or eight exogamous sections, the institution at the
present day is still spreading among certain of the tribes,
^ B. Spencer, Wanderings in Wild ^ Totemism and Exogamy, i. 350
Australia, i. pp. 278 sqq. sqq.
CH. XI THE TRIBES OF CENTRAL A USTRALIA 257
some of whom find considerable difficulty in fitting the new
rules into their former and much simpler systems of
marriage.^
Of all the features of Australia totemism the most im-
portant and striking are the ceremonies which the natives
perform for the increase or multiplication of their totems.
Most of their totems are edible or otherwise useful objects,
hence by performing the ceremonies they believe that they
provide themselves with all the necessities and with many of
the conveniences of life, and their faith in the efficacy of the
ceremonies appears to be absolute. In themselves the rites
appear to be purely magical.^ For they think that by their
performance they can compel Nature to do their bidding,
and so to supply all their wants. It is true that in reporting
the rites the white observer occasionally says that the natives
ask or request the totems to go forth and increase ; but in
thus reporting they always use the indirect form of narration.
Wherever they report the very words of the natives, these
always, so far as I remember, take the form of a command
addressed to the totems, " Go forth and increase !
" or some
such words. This is characteristic of magic as opposed to
religion. Though rites performed for the increase of the
totems have not been reported for all the tribes of Australia
it is probable that they have actually been practised by all.
If the whole aboriginal population of Australia, who rank
with the most backward of mankind, thus trust, or have
trusted in the past, to magic rather than to religion for the
supply of all their wants, it may be thought to tell in favour
of the hypothesis which I long ago put forward, that in the
early history of humanity the age of religion has been pre-
ceded by an age of magic. It is not surprising that the
clearest evidence in favour of the hypothesis should survive in
^ See above, pp. 51 sq. cnt observers, to be purely magical.
^ I am aware that Prof. Elkiii That they were magical was the
appears to doubt or deny the magical opinion of Sir Baldwin Spencer, than
nature of the ceremonies performed whom no one had a better op])ortunity
for the increase of the totems. But of juilging of the nature of the rites,
with all respect for his high authority which he witnessed so often. See
I venture to think that in this he above, p. 33. Cf. A. P. Elkin, " The
is mistaken. The rites in question Secret Life of the Australian Abori-
appear to me, if I may judge by the gine," in Oceania, vol. iii. No. 2 (Dec.
descriptions of them given by compet- 1932), p. 133.
S
258 TOTEMISM IN A USTRALIA bk. i
this, the smallest of all the Continents, which, with its archaic
types of fauna, flora, and humanity, may almost be described
as a museum of antiquities, which Nature herself has set
apart from the rest of the globe on purpose to satisfy the
curiosity of later ages as to the early history of the world.
BOOK II
TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA
CHAPTER I
TOTEMISM IN NEW CALEDONIA
Melanesia is the name given to the long chain of islands
which skirts the eastern shores of Australia and New Guinea,
from New Caledonia in the south to New Britain and New
Ireland in the north. The name is derived from the black
or swarthy complexion of the natives, who stand at a much
higher level of culture than the rude aborigines of Australia
with whom we have hitherto been concerned, for they occupy
permanent settlements and houses and subsist chiefly by the
diligent cultivation of the ground. With perhaps a few ex-
ceptions the natives appear to belong to one race, and to
speak a common language. The main stock is believed to be
Papuan, mixed with elements brought by immigrants from
and through the East Indian Archipelago.^
The natives of New Caledonia, the largest and most
southerly of the Melanesian Islands, appear to possess a
system of totemism, which has been described for us by
the experienced French Protestant missionary, M. Maurice
Leenhardt, but though he gives us a long list of totems, his
description of the system is somewhat vague and lacking in
precision.
He tells us that the totemic system is seldom thrust upon
the attention of the observer except in the refusal of tabooed
foods.
^
" The wooden sculptures on the big house are not simply
ornamental, they are memorials or symbols. The decorative
1 R. M. Codrington, The Mela- ^ M. Leenhardt, Notes d'Eth-
nesians (Oxford, 1891), p. i ; A. C. nologie Neo-Caledonienne{^zx\%,\<^yS),
Haddon, The Races of Mmi and their p 179.
Distribution (Cambridge, 1924), p. 17.
26
1
262 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ii
art is not yet separate from religion, which concentrates its
thought in a symbol or an image. The thought is that ot
perpetuating the ancestor and conserving his protection.
In the ceremony {pilou) at the end of mourning they say to
the deceased, '
Return now to thy maternal kinsfolk in the
forest, leave us. We loved thee, we have made thy portrait.'
By portrait they mean the sculptures they have made. The
duty of the portrait is to watch over the descendants and
ensure them the favour of their ancestors. . . . The sculpture
on the ridge-pole, the most important of the sculptures, is
directly associated with the totem ; for the totemic herb is
placed in the highest conch-shell of the spire ; and in prayers
for the long life of an infant they swear by '
the totem up on
high.' ... In front of the house are great stones in which
the spirits of ancestors reside. Behind the house is the
favourite haunt of the totem. The space behind the women's
house is very strictly forbidden or tabooed, for their totem
is the most feared." ^
He tells us that in general the totems are chosen from the
less conspicuous and formidable aspects of Nature, but he
mentions as exceptions to the rule, the totems of thunder, the
wind, and the shark. He adds, however, that everything in
the system has a bearing on human existence {appartiennent
aux parages de Vhomnie)} From his long list of totems,
about forty in number, we may take the following : thunder,
rain, several species of lizards, hairy caterpillar, cricket,
shark, field-mouse, ue (a species of grass or herb), mullet,
wave, worm, octopus, eel, bubble of air.^
The natives regard the totems as their ancestors, and the
old men are unanimous in declaring that the totems claimed
by the clans as their ancestors are very often the maternal
totems, whose traditions the women are able to impose upon
their sons. The paternal totems play no part in the social
life of the tribes, which M. Leenhardt attributes to a belief
of the natives that the father has no share in the transmission
of life to his offspring. In the long and intricate line of
maternal and paternal descent, which conforms to the classifi-
catory system of relationship, the natives hesitate to distinguish
^ M. Leenhardt, op. cit. pp. lo, 22. ^ M. Leenhardt, op. cit. p. 178.
^ M. Leenhardt, op. cit. p. 201.
CH. I TOTEMISM IN NEW CALEDONIA 263
which is the true totem, the paternal or the maternal, where
that of the father counts for less and that of the mother's
brother {kanya) plays an intimate and profound part in the
life of the paternal group.
^
With regard to particular totems we are told that the long-
haired caterpillar infests the family domain, the house, the
altar, the field, and the bush or forest which furnishes the
family with the means of subsistence. When they see it they
do not crush it, but ask, " What are you doing here ? " and
they request it to go away. In speaking to the insect they
use the polite plural as in addressing a maternal uncle or
elder brother. They think that the insect promotes the
growth of the crops, particularly the roots of the soa, which
require a long preparation to make them edible. At the same
time the caterpillar is supposed to guard other edible plants.
Living on the crops from which the people derive their sub-
sistence and promoting the growth, the insect is deemed to
be the supporter or nourisher of the family. When anyone
has offended it the caterpillar is believed to punish the offender
by inflicting him with madness at the hour of twilight.
There are altars to the caterpillar, which are in the charge
of the younger branch of the family. The priestess is a
mother of the family, and her son is the kavti or Master. At
each of these altars pointed poles are set up, or roots of soa
are pricked. And round about the altar are planted wild
edible plants, over which the caterpillar is believed to keep
guard. No burnt sacrifice is made on the altar, but on it
they place an offering consisting of cakes of soa, and at it
they pray that the crops of the family may thrive. When
girls of the caterpillar clan marry into another group they
take with them their totem, and find an altar to the caterpillar
in their new home. The caterpillar is the totem of the
Boerhexau and Nei clans, two of the most ancient clans in the
valley of Honailon, but the members of these clans say that
the caterpillar totem came to them through the women. The
insect is believed to contain in its body stones which are the
petrified soul of an ancient warrior.^
^ M, Leenhardt, op. cit. pp. 202- - M. Leenhardt, op. cit. pp. iSi-
203, and for classificatory system of 182,
relationship, see id. pp. 63 sqq
264 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ll
The lizard is a totem all over New Caledonia, but it is not
always the same species of lizard. Four different sorts of
the reptile are recognised as totems. In the North-West the
natives regard with great respect a large stone, a natural
rock near the crops, and in the season the kavu or Master,
after offering a sacrifice, invites the lizard to follow him, and
leads the creature up to this stone which it is supposed to
enter and to dwell in until the time of harvest. The lizard
meets us again in indirect form in the small sacred stones
which are preserved at the entrance to the house. These
stones are believed to be at the same time the petrified
spirits of the ancestors of the family. In all the domestic
groups or clans of the lizard totem, when a death has taken
place and the priest is about to catch the soul of the deceased,
the soul presents itself to him in the form of a lizard. The
lizard is the great protector of the crops, and the guardian of
women in childbed, to whom he ensures a safe delivery. It
is, in a word, the strength and the life of the clan that respects
it. The totem of the small lizard (gecko) is supposed to
render people sad, silent, and dejected : it engenders hypo-
chondria. Yet it is the guardian of the house, and shows by
its agitation when some misfortune is about to befall the
family. As a totem the large lizard is thought to cause
emaciation, water on the brain, scrofula, and consumption.
For these diseases remedies can be applied in the shape of
certain herbs, the secret of which is possessed by the Master
of the totem (kavu). The large lizard is " protected " by the
wives of the junior branch of the group or clan and their sons.
This is the native way of saying that these wives and their
sons are the priestesses and priests of the lizard as the totem
of the clan. These persons guard the altar of the great
lizard totem with the same pious care with which the cater-
pillar clan guards the altars of the caterpillar totem. Down
to recent years a dance of the lizard totem was performed at
a place on the west coast, in which the lizard was represented
by a dancer, loaded with ornaments like a great chief. The
persons who shared in the ceremony daubed their bodies
with clay in imitation of the marks on the skin of the lizard.^
Another totem is a species of large sea serpent, in French
^
M. Leenhardt, op. cit. pp. 183-1S3.
CH. I TOTEMISM IN NEW CALEDONIA 265
plature, which at low tide Hves in crevices in the rocks, or on
trees. It goes down to fish at high tide and may also be
encountered in deep water. In the coastal regions it plays
the same totemic part as the lizard in the interior of the
country. Like the lizard, this sea-serpent is charged with
the duty of promoting the growth of the crops, and members
of the totem mimic the tortuous progress of the reptile in the
path which they trace in order to lead it to the arrow-root.
The serpent is believed to cause rheumatic pains in the knees,
the head, and the back, and lack of sleep. The Master of the
totem (kavti) possesses a herb which is an antidote to these
maladies, but Pastor Leenhardt has not heard of any altar
erected in honour of this totemic sea-serpent. Not but that
such altars may not have existed in the past, but the clan
has not kept up the tradition, and the altars have fallen
into desuetude. However, members of the clan still make
offerings to their totem, the sea-serpent, at the time when
they break up the taro roots before planting them. They
lay a plant of taro on a small hillock which serves instead of
an altar, with a sacred pole beside it. And they repeat the
same ceremony when the crops are ripe.
Members of the clan hang up images of the serpent in
the fields to ward off thieves. The serpent is greatly feared,
and people strictly respect the surroundings of houses
which it guards in its capacity of totem. Certain rites attest
a worship of the sea-serpent. Thus in order to attract trade
winds at the time of the young arrow-root people at Canala
hoist a black and white striped flag to a pole. The stripes on
the flag are intended to imitate the stripes on the serpent's
body. Again, at Gomen, a dance called hia is performed, in
which men who represent the dead descending to the spirit-
land, advance holding in their hands wood carved and painted
to mimic the sea-serpent. They hold the serpent's head in
their mouths and pretend to eat it, which is thought to com-
plete their resemblance to the spirits of the dead, because the
sea-serpent, the lizards, and all the other totems are the food
of the dead, and that is why human beings may not eat them.^
The mullet is the totem of several clans in different parts
of the island. When a member of these clans dies, and they
I
M. Leenhardt, op. cit. pp. 185-186,
266 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ii
see a mullet pass in the river, they call it the " father " of the
deceased. They think that the spirit of the deceased {kd) is
in the fish, which is their totem. They do not distinguish
between the spirit of the dead and the totem, which for us
are so different. When the mullet appears in shoals, they
call this the boria of the dead. The boria is a complex
ceremony in which the gods receive the dead in a dance. A
shoal of mullets appearing at the moment of a clansman's
death recalls this dance of the gods. Members of the mullet
clan exalt the glory of the mullet in mimic dances. When
this dance of the mullet clan was performed for the last time
a rifle-shot rang out at the close, at which the dancers fell as
if dead to the ground, the report of the rifle signifying at once
the explosion of dynamite among the fish, and the extinction
of the mullet clan by civilization.^
The shark is the totem of numerous clans in the island.
In the north two sharks belonging to two different families are
equally famous. They have each a name, one being called
Yevavang and the other Moajilien. These names seem to
be the names of ancestors, and the families pray to these
sharks at the altars with the sacrifice of cooked arrow-root,
exactly as they do in honour of ancestors. The name of the
shark called out to a warrior in battle is a symbol of virility
and redoubles his strength. When the name of the totem is
pronounced by a man in the presence of a woman who belongs
to the corresponding fraternity, and is therefore his classifica-
tory sister, the hearers are covered with confusion, which
seems to imply that the shark has a sexual significance.
The shark is supposed to live in mud and filth, hence
ordinary people of the shark clan are careful to keep their
houses and surroundings very clean, lest their totem the shark
should come to revel in it, bringing with him the diseases
that follow in his train ; but on the contrary, the Master
{kavu) of the shark totem, in order to keep his totem by him,
lives in a state of perpetual filth, never cleaning the ground
about his house or altar, and not even retiring to a distance
to satisfy the needs of nature.
-
The worm is an iinportant totem on account of the
damage it does to the taro plantations. There are different
^ M. Leenhardt, op. cit. p. i88. ^ M. Leenhardt, op. cit. pp. 189-190.
CH. I TOTEMISM IN NEW CALEDONIA 267
kinds of worm totems. The merit of the worm totem con-
sists in bringing water, and maintaining humidity and
verdure, a source of riches to the clan. Its danger consists
in its habit of burrowing in the ground, thus causing the
water to escape and the soil to collapse. Hence in the clan
at Koerhon, the people of the worm totem perform a dance
during the growth of the taro and sing a song in praise of
their totem the worm, believing that thus they prevent the
worm from devastating the water channels. The song only
contains the names of ancestors and of the places of their
crop where they wish the worm to bring the water.
^
Thunder is a widespread totem in New Caledonia. There
is a Thunder-stone in which the ancestral spirit is enclosed.
At the ordinary altar of the clan {ka moaro) is a sacred pole
which is the wood of the thunder. This totem is not supposed
to have any influence on the crops. It does not cause any
illnesses. Its great merit consists in its outbursts of thunder
and lightning, which are not clearly distinguished, but are
much dreaded. Hence in the clan Neare, when one of the
last masters of thunder died, and when his clan was taking
his skull to the Calvary or place of his ancestors, the people
of the clan held a great assembly in order to show their
respect for their thunder totem. They feared to excite a
great thunderstorm should anyone show any w^ant of rever-
ence for their totem. And they carried away the skull to the
top of a distant mountain, where a thunderstorm, if it broke
out, would do no harm.^
With regard to kinship and marriage, a woman's proper
husband is the son of her mother's brother. The father ranks
with his brothers : the idea of fatherhood not being clearly
developed. All cousins on the father's side are called
brothers." There is little conversation between brothers
and sisters. " Brothers " in the classificatory sense fall into
two distinct " fraternities," according as they are children
of the father's brothers or of the mother's brothers; the former
belong to the paternal clan, the latter to the maternal clan.
Brothers and sisters of the same clan show great deference to
each other : incest between them is strictly avoided.
Marriage is an exchange of cousins - german between a
^ M Leenhardt, op. cit. p. 191. ^ M. Leenhardt, op. cit. pp. 197-198.
268 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. il
maternal uncle and his sister's husband. In the kinship
system the three cardinal personages are the maternal uncle,
his daughter, and his nephew (sister's son). The father does
not call his son " my blood " ; that expression is applied by
a man to his nephew, the son of his sister.^
1 M. Leenhardt, op. cit. pp. 58 sqq.
CHAPTER II
TOTEMISM IN THE LOYALTY ISLANDS
The Loyalty Islands are a group of islands lying to the east
of New Caledonia. Lifu, the largest island of the group,
measures some fifty miles in length by twenty-five in breadth.
The natives are Melanesians. The existence of totemism
among them is recorded by Mrs. Hadfield, who resided as
a missionary on the island of Uvea for many years.
Her account of the evidence, though somewhat vague
and popular, is best given in her own words. She writes :
" Each tribe had its own particular totem. In one tribe it
took the form of a lizard ; in another, that of a rat ; whilst
everyone agreed that the kingfisher
—
Ciciete—-was a bird of
ill omen and the incarnation of wickedness. To the present
day he is regarded with ill-favour, and indeed his boldness
and wicked knowing looks suggest all kinds of devilry.
However hungry a Lifuan may be he can never persuade
himself to eat either a kingfisher {ciciete), a white owl {luoi),
or a lizard (thu).
" Some time ago one of our cats caught a kingfisher
but refused to eat it. I pointed out the fact to a native who
was about the house ; but he showed not the least surprise,
his remark being equivalent to saying, '
Do you suppose
your cat, or any other well-regulated cat, would dare to
devour a ciciete ?
'
" Supposing the totem of a particular sorcerer to be an
owl, the sorcerer was supposed to know and quickly recognize
the individual member of the species which acted as his
special medium ; but as other members had not the same
powers of discernment, all the individuals of the three species
269
270 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. il
enjoyed a happy immunity from wilful slaughter ; for every-
one feared to destroy any of these birds or animals lest it
should prove to be the incarnation of some powerful spirit.
They believed too that the death of one of these mediums
also meant the death of the sorcerer who controlled the
spirit embodied in it.
" The appearance of a kingfisher did not always augur
the same event. To a man, of whose tribe he was the totem,
his appearance was a certain premonition of death ; whilst
to a woman belonging to another tribe, and with a different
totem, he brought good news ; for his peculiar whining note
told her that there was some fish at her home needing her
attention ; and so thoroughly did she believe this that she
at once left her plantation and hurried home to prepare the
fish for the evening meal." ^
^ E. Hadfield, Among the Natives of the Loyalty Group (London, 1928),
pp. 156 sq.
CHAPTER III
TOTEMISM IN THE NEW HEBRIDES
Malekula, which was formerly called Mallicolo, is the
second largest island of the New Hebrides group, about
forty-five miles long, lying to the south of Espiritu Santo,
which is the largest island of the cluster. In 1926 the natives
of the island were carefully investigated by Mr. A. Bernard
Deacon, and he has given us a valuable account of the
principal results of his researches, though his premature death
prevented him from putting his reports into a final form.
He discovered the existence of totemism in several parts of
the island. His account will be best given in his own words.
" Totemism is a word which has been defined in a variety
of ways, or used in a vague sense to cover almost any relation-
ship between men and animals or plants which has a ritual
aspect. If we accept as a definition that totemism is a special
ritual relation between a group of human beings on the one
hand and a species of animal, plant, or natural object on the
other, then it may be said that the people of at least parts of
Malekula are totemic. Most of the data on this subject
comes from the south-west districts (Seniang and Wilemp),
from Mewun and from Lambubu. Concerning the other
districts there are only very brief notes, but these are sufficient
to suggest that totemism is to some extent a feature of all the
coastal Malekulan cultures, and very possibly of those of the
interior as well.
" In Seniang and Wilemp it is found that every clan is
associated in a definitely ritual way with some plant or animal
species, most usually with a variety of some edible plant, or
some tree, or some bird, or some mammal such as a pig or
271
272 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. il
rat. The exact nature of this association varies, but respect
for every representative of the totemic species is always
present, and save where the totem is some edible root, this
respect commonly takes the form of abstaining from injuring,
killing, or eating it. For instance, the ninibile bird is un-
molested by the people of Lu'ha, Tivulemp, and Tunggor,
the reason being given that it has the power of killing men.
A man of Evun Ambus may not cut the tree nambus lest
he die. . . , nor might the people of Tomman Island (in the
days when that islet was still inhabited) kill or eat the dove
nivimar.
" Sometimes there is a closer bond between the members
of a village and such a totem, and the lives of the men are
regarded as linked with the lives of the animals. The people
of Looremew may not shoot the small bird nevilala, and if a
flight of these alight on the house of a man of this group it
is a sign that he will shortly die. The locust, naambei, holds
the same position for the people of Ndawu. If people see a
lot of locusts lying about, or exceptionally active, they know
that a man of this village has died. It is explained that the
creatures' activity is the result of the spirit of the deceased
having entered into them. The locust is not touched by the
people of this clan, nor is it killed by them, for it is held that
should this happen then a man of Ndawu will die.
" Further, the parent village of every clan has its sacred
place in which almost always there is a sacred stone in which
resides a spiritual being. These are mostly concerned with
the neerezv or '
harvest festival '
of the clan, but in some
villages at least the indwelling spirit is that of the totem. . . .
" Certain villages not only respect their totems but claim
origin from them, and it is possible that if we had more data
we should find this to be an universal belief in these districts.
The men of Tenemet and Lembwilavi are, for instance,
descended from a pig ; the ancestors of Loorlanggalat came
forth from the nettle-tree which split open, and members of
this group avoid cutting it therefore. Similarly the people
of Maur trace their descent to a nm-tr- tree, of which the pith
was full of men—the tree burst, the inen came out and
married with women of other clans. . . .
" Perhaps the most complete account of totemic beliefs is
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN THE NEW HEBRIDES 273
recorded from the village of lumloor, and is probably-
typical of those held in Seniang and Wilemp. The inhabi-
tants hold themselves to be descended from a female rat,
and hence no member of lumloor or of its daughter villages
may kill or eat a rat. It seems that this respect for the rat
leads men of lumloor to resent the killing of rats by others,
for it is said that should a man of a descent group other than
lumloor unwittingly kill a rat, the people of lumloor compel
him to eat it. If he refuses to do so or evades it, then they
seek an opportunity to kill him. Further, the connection in
death of a man with his totem is exemplified by the lumloor
beliefs. The spirit of a man or woman of lumloor enters a
rat at death. The conception appears to be that all rats
form one entity into which the spirit of the deceased enters or
merges somehow. Thus if the rats become unusually active
and destructive in the villages of other clans, the people
thereof say :
'
Someone must have died at lumloor, the rats
are busy again.' ...
" As has been mentioned, the respect of men for their
totem takes the form, common to other totemic peoples, of
refraining from eating it, if it be edible, or if it be inedible
from killing, cutting, or in any way injuring it. In everyday
life a man only observes these restrictions towards the totemic
species of his father's (and hence of his own) clan, but should
he visit and stay in the village of his mother's clansfolk, then
he will observe also the totemic restrictions relating to it.
This is, however, probably only one example of the general
rule that a '
stranger '
staying in a village observes, out of
courtesy, the restrictions which are observed by his hosts.
The same holds true for a woman, but in addition she must,
if she be married, behave in respect of her husband's totem,
according to the same rules of avoidance that she observes
towards her husband's parents. Thus a woman married to
a man of Benaur may not say the word nikakal, nor may she
eat it ; and one married into the clan of lumhahlilong may
not say nionibant (' the owl ') but uses a metaphor to express
her meaning. There is in this district no record of a man
observing any similar tabu towards the totem of his wife,
though in Mewun he appears to do so. Such ritual attitudes
towards the totems seem to be enforced for the most part by
T
274 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ii
ritual sanctions, though the evidence for this is very scanty.
Thus if a man of Ndawu were to kill a locust a man of that
village would die, and if a man of Evun Ambus were to cut a
nambus tree he would perish. . . .
" It would appear that one object may Le the totem of
more than one clan. Thus the bird nimbile is respected
by the three independent villages of Luha, Tivulemp, and
Tunggor, while the nikakal is the totem of Bendur, Leneven,
and Teleleu. . . . On the other hand, there is also evidence
that the villages of one clan may sometimes have different
totems. . . .
" Besides the totem which most if not all clans possess,
many have also the power of '
making '
or '
increasing
'
some essential foodstuff or a widespread natural phenomenon.
Those clans which have power over a foodstuff celebrate
annually at the time of the yam harvest a kind of harvest
festival called neerew, naarew, or noorow, the aim of which
is to make plentiful the plant or animal concerned. The
neerew of each clan takes its name after the foodstuff which
it controls, as, for instance, the Neerew Mbetep (' Neerew of
the bread-fruit '), or Neerew Nimbaai (' Neerew of the
yams '). The rites are performed by one specialist for the
whole clan, and the fruits of his labours benefit not only his
own people but the whole district. Such a specialist is called
the ninibatin nowor, and there is always one, and apparently
one only in every clan. The name may perhaps be translated
'
head magician.' His office is essentially a public one, and
in the normal course of events would pass from a man to his
eldest son, to whom the necessary instructions would be given.
It appears that this instruction comprises not only the rites
which must be performed for the neerew ceremony, but also
the secret or " true " names of a large number of objects
such as bananas, the sea, the sun, and the moon. What the
purpose of these *
true '
names may be, or on what occasions
they are used, there is nothing to tell us, but they are evidently
held to be very sacred, for no ninibatin noivor may even reveal
them save to his successor. . . .
" The chief or '
parent '
village of every descent-group is
associated with a sacred place, called in Seniang the newut
tisanip and in Wilemp the newut bilian or, alternatively to
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN THE NEW HEBRIDES 275
both these, the ne7nbr7nbrkon. All subsidiary villages have
apparently the same one as their parent village. Such a
place is the charnel-house of the clan, and is also usually
regarded as the residence of a maleficent ghost who is by
tradition associated with the group. This ghost has gener-
ally as its particular abode a sacred stone which is usually the
principal object in the 7ienib7"»ibrkon. . . . The sacred stones
themselves often form the centre of a ?teerew ceremony, and
it would seem that they are considered to be potent because
of the te^nes (ghosts) which reside in them, but the rites do
not appear necessarily to include any invocation of these
beings. Thus the neereiv object of Looru is famine, which
is caused by the simple casting down of the *
stone '
of famine
(^Nevet Namar). . . . The names of a few of the stones have
been recorded. Thus we have the Nevet Lele^nbel of the
clan Lelenibel, the Nevet Neniosi and Nevet Nevul (the Star
Stone and the Moon Stone) of Rahulemp village, and the
Nevet Namar (the famine stones) of Uraau, Mbwilmet, and
Looru. These three villages are all of different clans, but
they have this in common, that in one way or another they
can produce famine in the district. In Uraau and also in
Mbwilmet famine is also regarded as the totem of the clan,
and by the men of the former village the famine stone is
(called ?) their ancestor, for it was out of the Nevet Namar
that the nivinu mbon tree grew, whence sprang the first men
of the Ndindinemer clan." ^
At the village of Benaur when the harvest festival is to be
celebrated for the increase of foodstuffs, a space is cleared
near the village, and certain plants are planted round it. In
the centre the earth is banked up to form a kind of circular
basin. This is lined with leaves of the kind used for wrapping
up puddings and filled with water. Certain leaves are then
wrung into the water, after which some stones, resembling
the nikakal tubes in shape, are put into it, and the formula
" May the nikakal bear, may its roots be many," is muttered
by the head magician. Young children and babies are then
brought and bathed in this water, after which the seed-tubers
of the nikakal, which are to be planted, are also dipped into it.
^ A. Bernard Deacon, Alalekula, a ed, by Camilla M. Wedgwood (Lon-
Vanishing People of the New Hebrides, don, 1934), pp. 588-598.
276 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ii
They arc then distributed and planted. Similarly at the
village of Rahulemp at the harvest festival for the increase of
yams the head magician made a concoction similar to that
described and poured it over a basket of seed-yams, which
were then distributed among the villages of the district and
put into the gardens of each clan. For this yam ceremony a
sacred stone is used. Its name is not recorded, but the story
runs that once at midnight a man perceived a stone flying
through the air, much like a nivinggouni bird. He shot it,
and it fell to the earth and it became the abode of " the ghost
of the yam fertility ceremony." It is always in the possession
of the head magician of Rahulemp, and is used in some way
not specified to ensure the fruitfulness of the yams.^
Pigs were apparently increased by a rite very similar to
that performed for yams. A special liquid was prepared in
the sacred place of the village concerned, and was then either
poured over certain pigs or into certain pieces of the sacred
prehistoric pottery which are preserved in the sacred places
of many clans which have ceremonies for the increase of pigs.
There are several clans which do not perform any cere-
mony for the increase of foodstuffs, but which have control
over such phenomena as faniine, wind, and war. These, too,
perform a ceremony which, however, is not annual but may
take place at irregular intervals. Why war or famine should
ever be brought about intentionally is not clear. It seems
improbable that antagonism towards neighbouring clans
would lead to it, for, as with the ceremony for foodstuffs, the
results appear to affect the district as a whole. It must,
however, be appreciated that the clans which can make war
and famine can also work their opposites—peace and plenty
—^just as the clans which can raise wind can also still it.^
Concerning totemism in the district of Mewun the data are
very scanty. Here, as in Seniang, each clan appears to be
associated with some plant, animal, or natural object from
which it traces its descent. The names of only three such
totems, however, have been recorded.
The people of Alou village are descended from a nindiw
tree which split open and produced a man. This man
^ A. Bernard Deacon, op. cit. pp. ^ A. Bernard Deacon, op. cit. pp.
602-603. 603-604.
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN THE NEW HEBRIDES 277
married a woman who was the daughter of a certain species
of snake. The inhabitants of this village behave, therefore,
with respect to both the ninduo tree and the snake. The
former may not be touched or cut, and this, since it is a wood
much used in carving, is a serious prohibition. The snake
may not be killed and is believed to be friendly towards its
human relatives. These will not speak its name but refer to
it by the term used for mother-in-law. The taboo on speaking
the name of the totem appears to be the same here as in
Seniang, so that a woman who is the wife of a man of Alou
refrains from saying the name of the tree ninduo, since it is
said to have the same status as the husband's parent, and this
restriction is, in Mewun, also extended to a man who is the
husband of a woman of this group.
" The people of Loutagha are descended from a nezvongke
bird which was in turn given birth to by a stone. They re-
frain from killing all birds of this species and respect them.
All women who have married into the village regard the
nezvongke as a parent-in-law and refrain from using its name.
" The only other totem mentioned from Mewun is the tree
nirmSines, which belongs to the Melpmes clan. This tree
sprang from the head of the wife of the mythical creator But-
wanabaghap after her death ; it burst and brought forth the
people of Melpmes. If those near Melpmes should cut this
tree, or even should its branches or leaves be torn in a hurricane,
dysentery is believed to break out and cause many deaths.
" Each village has, too, a ceremony by means of which it
increases a certain foodstuff. Such a ceremony is called
nogho in Mewun, and from the data available it is clear that
it is the same as the neerew of the southern districts. . . .
" The nogho are celebrated in the sacred place or logho
of each clan by a clan fertility-magician, the nemugut nogho
(' the man of nogho ') whose office, like that of the nhnbatin
nowor of Seniang, passes from father to son. The logho
corresponds closely to the nenibrmbrkon of Seniang, for it is
the clan charnel-house and, so far as is known, is always
associated with a stone which is the residence of a tetnes
(ghost), from which it derives its potency." ^
In the district of Lambumbu Mr. Deacon found that the
^ A. Bernard Deacon, op. cit. pp. 607 sqq.
278 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. li
totem of the village Lowag was the cabbage, but beyond
that he gives no information as to the existence of any beliefs
concerning descent from or respect for any particular species
held by any clan. " There is, moreover, definite evidence
that in Lambumbu, as in Mewun and Seniang, most, if not
all, descent localities have a sacred place, W7it rnoul, and
perform a ceremony to increase a certain foodstuff. This
ceremony is the nogha?'o ;
thus there is a nogharo of the
yam at Lembelag, Timbini, and Piri ;
of the bread-fruit
(^Nogharo Nenibet) at Tambinbon, Lowag, and Tivlamp, and
the clan Ran Nembew performs the nogharo of pigs {Nogharo
Nimbuah). It is perhaps significant that the totem and
nogharo object of Lowag are distinct. Of the nature of the
nogharo rites we are ignorant save for a short account of the
Nogharo Nimbuah'. A bamboo vessel, kept specially for the
ceremony and handed down from each clan magician to his
successor, is taken to the stream called nowei narug and
filled with water. The leaves of nisivung and niniu7nwengk
are then squeezed into the water and the bamboo carried to
the middle of the dancing-ground. Here, standing between
the gongs, the magician pours the infusion on to the ground
while muttering the words :
'
The sows' bellies swell up ;
the sows become they great, bear they pigs !
'
" It will be noticed that in this account there is no mention
of any invocation of a temes (ghost), nor is there any evidence
that temes are associated with the wut moul (sacred place)
at all, though since the information concerning Lambumbu
is very incomplete, such negative evidence is of little value.
There is, however, a brief note concerning nogharo ceremonies
as a whole which states that many of them are worked by
means of spells (and, presumably, the performing of certain
rites) muttered over stones resembling the species to be
increased. Thus bananas are multiplied by acting upon
stones resembling bananas; for bread-fruit {nembei) there are
certain stones in the zviit moul of the clan which performs the
nogharo nenibet. There are also in this same tabu-place
certain pots. . . . To increase the bread-fruit the stones
are taken and placed inside one of the sacred pots to the
accompaniment of spells. . . .
" It may be inferred from the foregoing account of the
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN THE NEW HEBRIDES 279
Nogharo Nhnbuah that each clan has its special clan fertility
magician, but the title of the office and all details concerning
it are lacking. There is one interesting statement, however,
about the magicians of the clan Ran Nembew who perform
the nogharo of pigs. In order to guard the pigs of the district
against disease, these men receive on their death different
burial from that of ordinary people. It is true that their
bodies are placed in the ground in the usual way, but their
heads are left projecting, for it is greatly feared that, should
the earth come into contact with and rot the head of a pig-
magician then universal sickness of, or misfortune to, the
pigs will follow ; they will die, or their tusks will break and
will not grow long. The cheeks of the magician are burnt
away with fire, then the head is covered with a leaf, cut off
from the body and put up in the men's club-house, not in
the charnel-house as is done for ordinary folk. Sometimes
the fear that the earth will come in contact with the head is so
great that the body is not buried, but is put into an old gong
which is set on a rough trestle in the charnel-place, out of the
reach of the dogs and pigs. It is said that a gong is only
used because it is a ready-hollowed tree, and that where
there are canoes one of these would be used, it being the
same thing. When this form of disposal is employed, the
skull and bones are not removed after the body has rotted.
" The nogharo differs from the neerew or nogho in one
important respect : it is not an annual ceremony, but has
an eight-year cycle. All nogharo are not performed during
the same year, however, so that in any one year there will
probably be one or two such ceremonies taking place." ^
"With regard to the district of Lagalag in the south-west
we are told that the records of totemism are of the vaguest,
but among these people there is clearly a series of ceremonies
which correspond to the nogharo of their neighbours to the
west. These are called naa^nbi, and mention is made of the
naanibi nen nindiim (the Jtaanibi of the yams). . . . At the
village of Lagandu, too, specimens are found of the sacred
prehistoric pottery, here called nughumbe, and they are
associated, as in Lambumbu, with the rite of increasing
bread-fruit performed apparently by an official called vmgh
^ A. Bernard Deacon, op cit. pp. 611-613.
28o TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. li
is nen nembet. It is mentioned, also, that yams are increased
with the aid of certain black stones, and this suggests another
close parallel to the use of stones in the nogharo of
Lambumbu."^
" Thus, we see that of the districts in the west of Malekula,
those of the south-west, Mewun, Lambumbu, and Lagalag,
are united in the custom of performing at certain stated
intervals a ceremony for the increasing of certain food-
stuffs. Further, this rite is carried out for each foodstuff by
one special magician in each separate clan, and may be said
to be owned by that clan. This is also probably true for the
inland district of Nesan, but the evidence for this region is
less reliable than it is for the districts mentioned above. It
is reported that fertility rites exist similar to the nogharo of
Lambumbu, but called nilian, and that even in this part of
the country prehistoric pottery is found which, again as in
Lambumbu, is used in connection with the nilian nembet,
the fertility ceremony for bread-fruit. There is no mention,
however, of any special clan-magicians in this district.
Among the Big Nambas nothing is recorded of any fertility
rites, but it is clear that many of the clan villages believed
themselves to be descended from and have a respect for
certain animal and plant species. Thus the first two men
of Mawei were brought forth by the pigeon mbilig, and this
is to-day neither killed nor injured by members of this
village. Again, a creeper vi-^nil gave birth to five men and
one woman. The latter was handed over to the people of
Tevter village, and in exchange one of the sons of the vimil
married a Tevter woman. From this couple are descended
the people of Batarmul. By them vimil is described as '
all
same mamma belong all,' and it is forbidden to cut this
creeper in the vicinity of their village. Another plant, the
nive, bore the men of Botvovwu. Whether all of this species
are respected is not recorded, but the original plant is still
to be seen in this village ; the men's house has been built
over it, and the skulls of the dead are put up in its branches.
" Quite apart from these clan fertility rites for the increase
of food, however, there is another important ceremony akin
to them which provides a further cultural bond between the
^ A. Bernard Deacon, op. cit. p. 613.
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN THE NEW HEBRIDES 281
districts of the south-west and the north. This is the very-
sacred ceremony of '
Making Man.' The name by which
it went in the south has been lost, but it was celebrated
formerly in the now extinct village of lumoran on Tomman
Island. In Mewun it was known as the Nogho Tilabwe, or
'
Great Nogho' and in Lambumbu as the Nogharo Nomur or
the '
Nogharo of man.' Whether it ever existed among the
Big Nambas we do not know, but in Lagalag and Nesan it
is not to be found, and for its absence we have positive as well
as negative evidence, the indications being not that it has
disappeared as a result of depopulation, as has happened in
the south, but that it never existed in these two districts.
" The names Nogho Tilabwe and Nogharo Nomur
suggest that this rite is of the nature of one of the ordinary
clan fertility ceremonies, but it differs from them in certain
respects, notably in the fact that, though owned and primarily
performed by one village, it concerns intimately the whole
district and is apparently attended by persons from all
villages. In Seniang and Wilemp there were, further, two
fertility rites, called respectively Neerew Rahulemp and
Neerew Mbatiar, which combined the functions of a harvest
festival and a commemoration of the dead ; and which were
almost certainly closely allied to the ceremony for '
the
making of man,' though they do not appear themselves to
contain any obvious rites for human fertility."^
Some scanty and doubtful evidence for the survival of
clan totemism in Tanna and Aniwa, two islands of the
Southern New Hebrides, has been recorded by Mr. C. B.
Humphreys, who prefers, however, to speak of symbolism
and symbols instead of totemism and totems. I will give the
evidence which he adduces in his own words. Thus, speaking
of Tanna, he says : "Of clans, as usually understood, there
is no direct evidence. Wherever one goes, however, one
constantly finds unexpected evidences of what, in other parts
of the world, would be called clan symbolism. Many of my
informants believed that certain people are descended from
certain birds. For example, the wagtail or flycatcher
(takaskisi), the long-tailed tit {garafi), the hawk {vielikont),
the black hawk {mianuhu) are acknowledged to be birds
* A. Bernard Deacon, op. cit. pp. 614-616.
282 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ii
from which people descended at one time, though the
present knowledge of just who are these descendants of bird
ancestors is entirely lacking. Kuokarei told me of an instance
where a group used to belong to the banana people and the
eating of that fruit was taboo in a certain number of villages
in the vicinity of the Mission at Whitesands. To-day there
is no sign of this prohibition. The banana is eaten freely by
all people everywhere as far as is known, and most certainly
in this particular locality. Kuokarei added that the people
of the villages where the banana was taboo used to exchange
the banana for a fruit which they might eat, making the
exchange with villages where there was no prohibition
against the fruit in question. This exchange form of totemism
has no connection with the double form of the custom
found in Fiji and elsewhere. In Enophulus, a few miles
from Whitesands, there is evidence that such things as
bread-fruit, wind-and-rain, and other natural phenomena
have been used as clan symbols. More definite is the informa-
tion as to fowls in this connection. Many natives bore
testimony to this. There is reason to believe that fowls
existed in the New Hebrides prior to the arrival of the
Spaniards. Indeed, Turner insists that they have always
been there. More probably they came in from Indonesia
with one of the many movements of people from that area.
In any event, the precise locality where fowls occurred as
clan symbols is not known to-day, nor if they might be eaten
by the people who claimed them. It is curious that no
evidence of clan symbolism can be found existing to-day.
In making the enquiries on this point, it seems at first that,
perhaps, the exact meaning of the question was not under-
stood by the man then being questioned. But, when all the
men interrogated insisted strenuously that there is no such
thing nowadays, the testimony was too strong to be ignored.
Nor can reticence about a matter which is of a very personal
and private nature to the native entirely explain this denial.
With the consensus of opinion given against clan symbolism
by a large number of the more intelligent males in the
community, one must admit that it does not exist to-day. It
is probable that the breaking down of old customs and
traditions which is so evident in all Tannese culture has
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN THE NEW HEBRIDES 283
made particular havoc in the old clan organization Beyond
the belief that at some time in the past a system of clan
syinbolism existed in this island, one dares not go."^
With regard to totemism in the island of Aniwa, Mr.
Humphreys observes, " Serpent worship was practised in
Aniwa, according to Kuokarei, and the sea-snake is the totem
of some of the people there." ^ Again, summing up the
evidence for the former existence of totemism in the New
Hebrides, Mr. Humphreys observes :
" We have seen that
the existence of totemism in these islands is of the most
nebulous sort, but that there are certain objects in Tanna
and Aniwa which are closely akin to, or derived from, a
system of clan symbolism, with a more or less clearly defined
belief in descent from the symbol itself and, in some quarters,
a certain reluctance to eat it. Now clan symbolism is rare
m Polynesia, although it exists in Tonga and Samoa and
is very strong in Tikopia, with its Polynesian culture, but
it becomes increasingly common as one proceeds north-
westerly through the New Hebrides and the Solomons to the
Shortlands and the Melanesian islands to the north. The
only simple explanation of its practical disappearance in
the islands we are considering is that the influence from the
north-east which came in with the kava folk brought little
of this element of culture, and it finally became what it is
to-day—only a memory of its former power as a taboo and a
genealogical explanation at the same time. Considering the
strength of totemism in certain parts of the Solomons,
notably in the coastal regions of San Cristoval, it is possible
that the kava folk who introduced totemism in its pure form
came south-easterly through the Solomons to the New
Hebrides, while those who reached the Southern New
Hebrides by way of Tonga and Samoa were less impregnated
by totemistic ideas and practices. Fox distinguishes between
a bird totem people in San Cristoval and a people who were
probably earlier but whose totemism can hardly be called a
pure form, and it is possible that we have here the explanation
of the variation in totemistic beliefs throughout the Pacific."^
^ C. B. Humphreys, The Southern - C. B. Humphreys, op. cit. p. 121.
New Hebrides (Cambridge, 1926), pp. * C. B. Humphreys, op. cit. p. 179.
14-15. As to Mr. Fox's evidence, see below.
CHAPTER IV
TOTEMISM IN TIKOPIA
TiKOPIA is a small island of the Pacific, measuring only
some three miles in length by a mile and a half in breadth.
It lies between the New Hebrides on the south and the
Solomon Islands on the north, and it therefore belongs to the
chain of islands to which the name of Melanesia is given ;
but the natives are not Melanesians by blood and language.
Racially, linguistically, and culturally, they belong to the
Polynesian stock. They have been carefully investigated by
Mr. Raymond Firth, Reader in Anthropology in the Univer-
sity of London, who spent just a year among them, from July
1928 to July 1929. I will quote his general description of
the people :
" Rarely visited by Europeans and wnth no
white residents, Tikopia lies in the extreme east of the
British Solomon Islands Protectorate, and is inhabited by
twelve hundred healthy and vigorous natives. Homogeneous
in speech and culture, they are a unit of what may be termed
the '
Polynesian fringe '
in Melanesia, their closest affinities
being not with the people of the Solomons region but with
those of Samoa, Tonga, and even more distant groups to the
east. Almost untouched by the outside world the people
of Tikopia manage their own affairs, are governed by their
chiefs, and are proud of themselves and their culture. They
are primitive in the sense that the level of their material
technical achievement is not high, and they have been affected
in only a few externals by Western civilization ; at the same
time they have an elaborate code of etiquette, a clear-cut
systematic social organization, and they have developed very
strongly the ceremonial side of their life. They still wear
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN TIKOPIA 285
only their simple bark-cloth, they live in plain sago-leaf
thatch huts, they carry out the traditional forms of mourning,
marriage, and initiation. Mirabile dictu, a large section of
them still worship their ancient gods with full panoply of
ritual, a condition almost unique in the Polynesia of to-day.'" ^
The natives of Tikopia have a system of beliefs and rites
relating to certain species of animals and plants, and the
question whether this system deserves to be called totemism
has been carefully investigated by Mr. Firth. It bears on
the general question whether totemism has been an institu-
tion in Polynesia as a whole or not. On this disputed
question I niay refer the reader to what I have said in
Totei?iis7n and Exogmny?" Here it may not be out of place
to quote soine of the special evidence which Mr. Firth
adduces in discussing the problem for Tikopia.
" The social organization of this community," Mr. Firth
tells us, " consists of four large patrilineal kinship groups,
which for convenience may be termed clans, though they
are not necessarily exogamous in marriage relations. Each
of these is governed by a chief {ariki) who, in his capacity of
religious head of the group and performer of the principal
kava rites, stands in a special relation to the gods (atua).
These comprise the spirits of his ancestors, the dead clan
chiefs in order of precedence, headed by a number of major
deities, sometimes distinguished as tupua, who have never
lived on earth as men. Each chief has as his council and
assistants in religious affairs a small number oi pure matua,
elders, who hold their rank by virtue of their position as
heads of the most important families in the clan. Each elder
has his own atua to whom he performs ceremonies, but in a
more limited sphere than his chief. There is to some extent
a parallelism between the arrangement of social groups in
the community and the arrangement of deities in the religious
scheme.
" The nature of Tikopian totemism can be understood
only after reference to the attitude of the people towards the
living objects of their natural environment as a whole. To
the native, the primary matter of interest, apart from the
^ R. Firth, Jl'e, The Tikopia ^ Totemism and Exogamy, ii.
(London, 1936), p. 5. 151 sqq.
286 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ll
classification into animals, plants, etc., is the distinction
between things which are eaten and those which arc not
eaten.
" The diet of this island people consists almost solely of
vegetable products and fish, but within these limits is ex-
tremely varied. There appears to be very few species in
either domain which, though edible, are not utilized for food.
Of the great majority which figure on the bill of fare nothing
need be said here ; the four chief vegetable items, however,
demand consideration—the yam, the taro, the coconut, and
the breadfruit. Each of these is affiliated with one of the
clans of the island and is regarded as being in a sense their
special property. Following the native mode of speech in
which the term fakarono, meaning primarily '
to listen,' or
secondarily '
to obey,' is employed to denote this relation, it
may be said that the yam '
obeys '
sa Kafika, the coconut
'
obeys '
sa Tafua, the taro '
obeys '
sa Taumako and the
breadfruit '
obeys '
sa Fangarere. The role of controller is
often assigned in ordinary conversation to the chief of the
clan. Thus as an alternative statement it may be said that
the yam '
obeys '
or '
listens to '
the Ariki Kafika—and so
on ; the meaning is the same in both cases, since in all cere-
monial matters and in much else as well the chief is the
representative of his clan. The term fakarono as used in this
connection implies no conscious obedience on the part of the
plant, no imputation of personality, but simply that jurisdic-
tion is exercised over it by the particular chief in question.
This control relates primarily to religious ritual, the chiefs of
Kafika and Taumako having certain very sacred and impor-
tant duties to perform in connection with the seasonal
planting of yam and taro respectively, while the Ariki
Fangarere celebrates ritually each crop of breadfruit as it
comes to maturity. The Ariki Tafua has no such definite
obligations or privileges connected with the coconut, which
is probably to be correlated with the fact that this palm has
no well-marked fruiting season, but bears almost continuously
throughout the year, several different stages of the nut being
represented in its crown at any one time. . . .
*'
There is no restriction of any kind on the growing of
these foodstuffs by members of a clan other than that which
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN TIKOPIA 287
exercises special jurisdiction over them. Every man of the
island community has his patches of taro, usually, though not
invariably, his clump of yams, and always his breadfruit and
coconut trees. But when the appropriate time comes it is
left to the members of the affiliated clan, headed by their
chief, to perform the due rites. . . .
" The association of each clan with its food plant rests in
native belief on the relation between the plant and the prin-
cipal clan deity. Each of the four groups has its main god,
who is regarded with great reverence and is termed sacred
(tapu) in the highest degree. He possesses a variety of
names ; one or two of these are widely known, but the others
are supposed to be the property of the chief alone. To meet
the needs of ordinary reference the descriptive terms '
Te
Atua i Kaiika,' '
Te Atua i Tafua,' The Deity in Kaiika, The
Deity in Tafua, and the like are employed. Often, again,
euphemisms are in vogue, as '
Ko ia e nofo i te vai '
—' He
who lives in the water,' for the God of the Lake, represented
by the freshwater eel. ... A more accurate stateinent
then from the native point of view is that the yam, taro, and
other food plants belong primarily to the chief atua of the
respective divisions, and that it is through this that the clan
and chief exercise their interest in them. Hence the seasonal
ceremonies mentioned above have a very definite aim : they
induce the deity to continue his policy of productivity and to
send once again the crops by which his people live. The
association of the clans with the principal food plants of the
island and the performance of rites to ensure a continuance of
their fertility is comprehensible in that the importance of these
foodstuffs is thereby maintained in the eyes of the people,
their cultivation is invested with a certain religious sanction,
and their economic interest is thus reinforced.
" The specific social partition, however, whereby each
clan is definitely responsible for one type of plant, rests on
different grounds. In the native belief it has its foundation in
an incident, in reality of a mythical nature, which is held to
have happened in the distant times when men were gods and
gods were men, and when the principal deities themselves
v^ere the clans in the land. The story in the best known ver-
sion is that an atua, by name Tikaran, came to the land of
288 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. il
Tikopia from foreign parts. On his arrival a feast was made,
and a huge pile of food, te ana, was set up in the marae
(sanctuary or temple) of Rarokola in Uta. Emulation then
began between the local deities and the visitor as to who would
be the victor in trials of strength and speed. According to
the usual tale, a hopping match was instituted, and a circuit
of the lake was begun. The contestants had passed round
the seaward side, left Namo behind, and had entered on the
path through Te Roro, when Tikaran slipped and fell.
He made pretence of having injured his leg on one of the rocks
which strewed the way, and began to limp. Suddenly,
however, he made a dash for the glade of Rarokoka, where the
provision for the feast lay, and grabbing up the heap, fled to
the hills. With the Family of gods in close pursuit he made
for the crest, but arriving at the spur of Marepa he slipped and
fell once more, so that a deep groove in the hillside at the pre-
sent day is known as '
The Place of Falling of Tikaran.' The
Family of deities, coming up, were just able to grab, one a
coconut, another a taro, another a breadfruit, and others a
yam, before their opponent, gathering himself up, bolted to
the edge of the cliff, and being an atna, launched himself into
the sky and set off for the far lands with his ill-gotten gains.
He retained the bulk of the feast, but the Family had been
able to save for Tikopia the principal foodstuffs, and trans-
mit them to posterity. Thus the Atua i Tafua had seized a
coconut, whence his clan now control that fruit ; the Atua i
Taumako had grasped a taro, which is now the vegetable of
that clan ; the Atua i Fangarere had gripped a breadfruit,
which is now controlled by his group, while Pu ma, deities
of Kafika, had obtained the yam, which is now under the
jurisdiction of this clan.
" The tale is thus a myth of a type common to many
primitive peoples. Its general function is to provide a
foundation for existing socio-economic relations.
" The partition in sphere of interests to which it refers,
to be understood clearly, must be studied in conjunction with
the whole religious system of Tikopia. There it is seen that
in every important aspect of life there is a division of function
among the four clans, each headed by its chief, having its own
part to play in the total scheme. It is not easy to frame a
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN TIKOPIA 289
satisfactory generalization, but after an intensive study of the
culture of these folk the present writer is drawn to the
conclusion that the small size of the island and the dense
population, in association with the intricate ceremonial so
characteristic of all Polynesians, and the conflicting interests
of the major groups have done much to favour the minute
division of social and religious duties and privileges which
one observes. On the other hand, the need for social unity
within this limited area has tended to promote also the rather
remarkable complementary functions and interlocking ties
which link clan with clan.
" One problem which may arouse interest is the definite-
ness of the clan association with the principal food plants,
and the absence of such specific linkage with the chief species
of edible fish which have no such clan affiliation. This is
probably to be correlated with the greater fixity of the plant
species, the fact that their propagation, their growth and their
harvest are more under human control, and that they are
clearly localized at all times ;
fish, on the other hand, are much
more liable to variation, and are present to human ken, as a
rule, only in immediate connection with their capture." ^
" None of these plants are in themselves considered as
sacred, nor are they ever termed atua. They are controlled
by the principal atua of the respective clans, and figuratively
are spoken of as being the bodies or portions of the anatomy
of these supernatural beings, but they are not atua in them-
selves. No Tikopian ever termed an edible food plant an
atua even when speaking of it on the magico-religious or
mythic plane. . . .
" The relation of the four principal plant food-stuffs to
the social order is in cjuite a different category from that of
animals. In the latter case it is not the edible, but the inedible
elements which are associated with supernatural beings.
The facts are clear. The taro, the yam, the coconut and the
breadfruit are of great importance in the native life. They
are closely and directly linked with their respective clans, a
complex series of rites is performed in each case to ensure
their productivity, and the members of each clan, as of the
others, may eat the clan plant. With birds and sea creatures
1 R. Firth, Totemism in Polynesia {Oceafiia, 1931), pp. 3-10.
U
290 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. il
the converse is the case. Species used as food are Hnked
with no social group, and any increase rites are of a more
generahsed type. It is the inedible kinds which are associated
with clans and clan gods, they have little attention paid to
them and, naturally enough, are not the subject of any
increase ceremonies. Even when one of the creatures is
killed, no ritual procedure is carried out to avert ill results.
If we are to speak then of these phenomena as constituting
totemism it must be acknowledged that there are in Tikopia
two distinct types of the institution —the positive, relating to
plant food-stuffs, with emphasis on fertility ; the negative,
relating to animals, with emphasis on unsuitability for food.
" There is no question of association of plant and animal
species in any form of ' linked totemism '
; they are on entirely
different planes of religious interest.
" The animals and marine creatures which enter into
the ritual relation embrace a variety of species, and certain
corresponding differences of behaviour towards them are
exhibited by the natives. These may now be considered in
detail.
" The simplest relation occurs in the case of certain crabs,
lizards, insects and such '
small deer.' This class comprises
creatures such as the kaviki, the ghostly pale little land crab,
which lives in burrows in the sand, often under the house
floor, whence it emerges by night and stalks rustling over the
coconut matting, to engage in battle or love affairs, to the
annoyance of the humans whom it disturbs. The kalamisi
or kai'aviisi is a kindred animal, a crab of a reddish-brown
or yellowish hue, somewhat hairy-legged, the favourite
residence of which appears to be the crotch of a branch of a
tree. Both these species of crustacean are termed atua,
being inedible. At times it is thought they are entered by
itinerant spirits, often of the malignant disease-bringing
kind, against whom man has continually to be on his guard.
When such a ghostly being is thus its denizen the crab is
noticeable for its interest in human beings. An actual
native statement will illustrate this point. . . . The signifi-
cance of this is that the disease-bringing spirit is thought to
enter for its own purpose the body of the crab, which thus
animated, crawls over to the sleeping man and pinches him
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN TIKOPIA 291
with its claw. The man awakes, reaches out for the creature,
grasps it and drawing it to him, maims it. . .
." ^
" The term ata is frequently used to describe the relation
of the supernatural being to the animal which is its manifest
form. In its most concrete sense te ata is the shadow, as of
a person cast by the sun. ... It is also used of a 7-eflection
as of an image seen in a pool of water. The appearance of a
spirit in material animate form is also described as its ata,
which is best translated in this connection as its image or
simulation. . . . The word ata is used only when the concrete
materialization is that of a living creature ; in other cases
the spirit may have as a permanent resting-place an object
such as a war club, a spear or the sacred centre post of a
clan house. These are alluded to as fakatino, embodiments
of their respective deities. The fakatino is a permanent
concrete symbol of the supernatural being, a definite in-
dividual object of known locale ; the ata is the form which he
simulates at will, and may be any individual of a given
species. . . .
" Natives say that in Tikopia all birds and animals are
ata of various atua which appear in this form to mankind.
To this general statement there are certain exceptions since
a few kinds of bird are not regarded as serving attia as a
vehicle for manifestation, and are eaten freely. The great
majority of species, however, are associated with supernatural
beings.
" But not all animals of the one kind are so character-
ized. Some may be acting as media or materializations of
the spirits, fraught with religious interest and perhaps with
peril, while others of the same species remain simple and
harmless creatures. The problem then arises of how to
distinguish the one type from the other—to separate the
spirit in animal shape from the mere animal. This problem
has had to be faced by the native and an attempt made at
its solution, since, while on the one hand it is impracticable
for him to respect and give licence to every member of every
animal species which he encounters, it is imperative from
the point of view of religious belief to observe a becoming
reverence to such creatures as may be possessed by super-
1 R. Firth, op. cit. pp. 12-14.
292 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ll
normal attributes. The broad test is based in a rational
manner on the l)ehaviour of the animal itself. If it behaves
strangely in a manner not characteristic of its species, then
it is an attia in animal guise; if it acts in normal fashion, then
it is an ordinary individual and may be treated as such. . . .
The point of this statement is that if a person walking
through the woods sees a startled bird fly away from him
or a swamp-hen run, then it is simply a creature in natural
form ;
if, however, it comes towards him and exhibits none
of the fear which is to be expected in the circumstances, or
if it hovers near him and keeps up a continuous cry for no
apparent reason, then it is held to be inhabited at the
moment by a supernatural being. So also with fish, into
which spirits also enter on occasion, and which betray their
nature by abnormal conduct."^
" The same applies to the bat, which is common in the
island. Being a fruit eater it is looked on by the people as
a great pest, but probably as a reflex of the same circumstance,
is regarded as a creature of the gods, in particular of the clan
of Tafua. Sometimes when encountered it is a manifestation
of the atua ;
more often it is merely the animal itself. . . .
The peka (bat) is not eaten by the Tikopians, and they
express great distaste at the idea. ... Its characteristic odour
is unpleasant. . . . The bat ordinarily is treated with scant
ceremony, and though not usually harmed by adults is often
pelted with stones by children and occasionally brought down
in triumph. Reproof from elders may follow, but only of a
mild nature. A man who by intention killed a bat would be
regarded as having committed an unwise action but not
necessarily a sacrilegious one. . . . The bat is a thieving animal
and as such has little sympathy in its misfortune. But for
this reason it receives, on the other hand, some consideration.
When a man finds a bat eating fruit in his orchard or gnawing
at a coconut, if he be a cautious person he does not endeavour
to kill it, but merely scares it away, apostrophizing it under
the name oi Pii (ancestor) as it flaps off, to go to other districts
and obtain food. He treats it gently lest, being possibly an
atua masquerading in animal guise, it resent harsh treatment
and retaliate by returning again and again to his crops." "^
^ R. Firth, op. cit. pp. i6 sqq. - R. Firth, op. cit. pp. 19-20.
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN TIKOPIA 293
" It is believed by the Ariki Tafua and by the community
at large that he has special control over the actions of the
bat, and that if he is offended by some action of the populace
he can by reciting an appropriate appeal, induce the creature
to go and damage their coconut crops by severing with its
sharp teeth the stems of the immature nuts. As a corollary
to this belief, when the people see in their orchards evidence
of unusually severe depredations by bats they attribute this
to the ill-will and the recital of spells on the part of the chief
against them. . . .
" The deference of the people of all clans to the bat
appears to indicate that this creature owes its ritual im-
portance primarily to its economic notoriety, its powers of
destruction of food, and that the link with the specific clan
atua is of secondary interest.
" Somewhat the same attitude exists in the case of the
sivi (parroquet) and karae (sw^amp-hen). The parroquet is
destructive to coconut and other tree fruits by reason of its
promiscuous nibbling, which causes wastage of food even
when the quantity consumed is not great. As with the bat,
however, violent action is not usually adopted, being replaced
by methods of suasion. A man sitting in his house and hearing
the cry of a parroquet in his orchard near at hand will call
out
—
'
Go, Ancestor ! to set up your sacred beak
On the crests of the hills
And leave this place here
For the preparation of a food gift for you.'
These words politely invite the bird to betake itself to the
mountain heights, and allow the spot which it is raiding to
stay vacant in order—so it is assured—that the crops thus
left to mature may form an adequate food present for it at
some future date. On hearing this, it is believed, the parroquet
is under compulsion to fly off and feed in another locality.
For the karae (or swamp-hen) a similar procedure is
adopted. A person will utter the formula
—
'
Go, Ancestor ! and set up your sacred beak here
On Maunga Faea or in Soso
To eat a large taro root for yourself
And a great stem of bananas for yourself.'
294 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ll
Here the bird is induced to go by mention of the prospect of
large crops in other places. . . . The swamp-hen is perhaps
the greatest animal pest known to the natives. It is extremely
voracious, and taro and banana suffer heavily from its in-
cursions. . . . Because of its persistent thieving habits the
karae or swamp-hen is very unpopular, and though re-
cognized as the ata of a clan deity is nevertheless sometimes
killed." 1
" The standard of judgment as to whether one is en-
countering an animal or an atua, how'ever, being empirical,
is admittedly subject to error. It is understood that a man
may sometimes mistake the spirit for an ordinary creature,
and by lack of caution involve himself in mischance. This is
illustrated by an incident which happened some years ago, in
which a party of men ate of a kind of crab known as the
paka foran and died in consequence. This animal is believed
to be one of the forms in which the Female Deity, Te Atua
Fafine, manifests herself, but on this occasion the folk im-
agined that they were dealing with the ata, the physical
simulation, and not the spirit. Their tragic fate, however,
w^as evidence of their mistake. . . . One of the party only
refrained from eating; he dropped the morsels of food between
his legs when invited to partake and so survived. . . .
" The idea in regard to the injuring, killing or eating of
such creatures as are believed to be ata of at2ia is that any
action of this kind which is apparently followed by no ill-
results has involved the animal alone ; but if any misfortune
should occur soon afterwards, then this is held to be proof
that the atiia was in possession at the time. This is merely a
special case of the general principle that the presence of an
atua is to be deduced from the behaviour of an animal—if
eating it makes one ill, then it must have harboured a
spirit. . . .
" The basis of identification of the presence of a super-
natural being varies somewhat with different species. Thus
the black lizard which frequents the native houses and is
common throughout the island is believed to be an atua if it
presents a peculiar shining appearance. . . .
" The moko (lizard) is regarded as being the ata of Atua i
1 R. Firth, op. cit. p. 25.
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN TIKOPIA 295
Raropuka. The crocodile, known as moko toro (crawling
lizard) is held to be the ata of the same god. . . .
" As a rule the animal which is thought to serve as the ata
of a deity is not eaten, though it may be killed on occasions.
The swamp-hen, for instance, is never utilised for food. . . .
With the pigeon the case is not quite parallel. Normally it
is not eaten. . . . Though this bird is not eaten by Taumako,
it may, in some circumstances, be used as food by persons
of the other clans, though such action is rare, and would not
be performed by tama tapu of Taumako clan, i.e. people
whose mother is of that stock. One informant gave me a
ruling on the question of eating the pigeon—as follows :
'
If a woman of Taumako marries a man of Tafua, then she
refrains from eating the rupe (pigeon), and her muaki tama,
the eldest son does also. Her younger children may eat of
it. Her husband used to eat thereof, but when his wife
comes and they dwell together, it is tapii for him then. When
the eldest son marries, then his children may eat this bird ;
they eat then, because their own mother is different.' The
tapu is not incumbent on the grandchildren, even on the
offspring of the eldest son—unless, of course, their mother
also is of Taumako, in which case they too will refrain. The
licence allowed by this rule is largely theoretical ; in practice
hardly anyone in the entire population appears to eat the
pigeon, and though plentiful, it is not regarded by the natives
as an item in the food supply. On the other hand, natives of
Taumako clan are quite eager that this bird shall be shot,
giving as a reason that it consumes voia {Canariuni nuts)
and other useful forest fruits. . .
."^
" The restriction of the prohibition on eating an animal
associated with a clan deity to the children of the eldest born
only, is paralleled by the custom observed with regard to
the tukuku and panoko, two fish which are tap7^ to sa Kafika.
They are not ata of atiia on earth, but according to native
belief have a special function to perform in the afterworld
in connection with the dead of Kafika. For this reason ritual
abstention is observed, but only by the eldest son and eldest
daughter of each Kafika family. Moreover, when women of
Kafika marry husbands of Taumako, Tafua or Fangarcrc,
1 R. Firth, op. cit. pp. 30-32.
296 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA BK. II
their first-born likewise do not eat of these two fish, though
the later born do. . . .
" Other birds, in addition to those already mentioned,
serve as media or simulacra for important deities. Such are
the sikotara (kingfisher) w^hich is the ata of the Atua i te
Uruao, the God in the Woods, the principal deity of the
Porima family. The kareva, the long-tailed cuckoo, which
is sometimes seen in the island, is an ata of the same atua.
The sivi (parroquet) is sacred to sa Taumako, being utilized
as a material medium by the chief ahia of that clan. ... A
few birds are entirely free from any restriction in the matter
of fitness for food." ^
" More interest is displayed in marine creatures, and the
distinction between edible and non-edible species is clearly
marked. . . . The fai (sting-ray) and the ririno (also a ray)
of which there are said to be three varieties, red, black, and
white, are all ata of the Atua Fafine, the Female Deity of
Kafika. . . .
" Most of the fish known to the Tikopians are used as
food, and are not regarded as being associated with spirits
or deities, but a few of them are so classed. The sakura and
takua, types of swordfish, are used as ata by the Atua i
Taumako—they are called his tino, his body, signifying his
material manifestation—and so are sacred for the clan of
that name. Special interest attaches to the marana, w^hich is
apparently of the dolphin type. One variety of this is known
as the 7na}'ana sa Korokoro since it is supposed to have
special affinity with the family group of Korokoro, which
belongs to the Tafua clan. If this creature is found stranded,
as occasionally occurs, then an offering of green food—taro
plants or breadfruit, and fresh coconuts—is set beside it by
the family mentioned. This is called put74., a term which is
used also to denote an offering set on the grave of a person
recently dead. After this ritual deference has been paid to
it the dolphin is taken away and cooked. The flesh is divided
among the four clans of the island according to a definite
traditional rule. . . . The portions are known as 7'au, the
conventional name for a '
ceremonial share '
and each is the
rau of the principal deity of the clan to which it is presented.
^
R. Firth, op. cit. pp. 30-33.
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN TIKOPIA -z^-j
The gift is taken in each case to the chief of the clan as
representative of his people, and is eaten by him and such of
his family and clansfolk as he chooses. The people of sa
Korokoro group do not eat of the dolphin at all. E tapu—
'
It is prohibited '
—for them. This is due to the belief that
this creature is a form of materialization of their principal
atua.
" It may be noted that here is an especially clear case in
w^hich an animal species is affiliated with a family group, but
not with the whole clan of which this group is a member^—
the situation is one of '
family totemism,' not '
clan totemism.'
" The whale is known also to the Tikopian people, and
is termed by them the taforo in common speech, or in an
honorific phrase, te Uru Pon o te Vasa—' The Head Post of
the Ocean Spaces.' At rare intervals a whale is driven
ashore, and its huge bulk attracts considerable attention.
Great numbers of people of all ages and both sexes assemble,
and as the men of the community go to join this crowd they
each grasp a weapon and on arrival at the scene brandish it
fiercely. . . . Though the actions are in mimicry of fighting
no actual disorder takes place. This is termed X\\q. fakaveve
of the whale. The idea is that the creature is the material
form of an atua which has come to land, and there is a
possibility that it may be a bringer of disease, since to the
Tikopian the onset of an epidemic is always associated with
influences, mainly supernatural, from outside the island.
The threatening gestures of the fakaveve are intended to
frighten off any such evil-minded atua and so preserve the
health of the land. In addition to this 2. putu of green food
is carried from the orchards and placed by the carcase, as
is done with the mara^ia. This is by way of offering to the
atua so that by the dual attitude of placation and threatening
he may be induced to behave favourably to the people. . .
." ^
" The octopus and the various species of eel appear to be
in a different category from the creatures already discussed
in that here the atua is more closely related to the animal
itself, being in fact a personification of the species.
" The octopus is regarded as the embodiment or the
actual form of the Atua i Faea, a male, his personal name
1 R. Firth, op. cit. pp. 74 sqq.
298 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ii
being Feke. Usually the deity seems to be zoomorphically
rather than anthropomorphically conceived. . . . This atua
is identified with the sun, the rays corresponding to the
splayed tentacles of the octopus. ... In addition to his own
proper shape, Feke also enters into or simulates certain other
creatures. One of these is utta, the small red hermit crab.
Another is toki, the giant clam, which is also regarded as an
ata of the atua. . . . The position of the octopus in the religious
scheine of the natives is thus somewhat involved. The atua
Feke is a personification of this animal species ; he is able
also to materialise in the form of the hermit crab and the
clam, which implies considerable powers of transmutation.
Moreover he is represented also by a mountain 7iiassif with
its springs of water, and by the sun with its beams, an
identification which is based on a general factor of similarity^
a central body and a number of divergent rays. Again, as a
deity of the Tikopian pantheon Feke is married to Nau
Fiora, goddess of Tafua clan, has children by her and on
certain ceremonial occasions of the chief of Tafua is con-
ceived as performing the appropriate duty, on the spiritual
plane, of coming to tend the oven with his bundle of firewood
on his shoulder, as all good husbands do on earth. The
exact degree of abstraction, the precise relation which the
spiritual being Feke is imagined to bear to his material
form the octopus, the sun, the clam, or the mountain crest
is difficult to define ; it apparently varies according to the
circumstances.
" The position of the eel is very similar. Eels fall into
two divisions—those of the lake and those of the sea. The
former have no specific name beyond that which is applied
to the Eel-god himself
—' Tuna,' the term '
te Atua i te Vai,'
'
the Deity in the Water' being the common mode of reference.
Occasionally one type is distinguished by the description,
'
the deity possessing ears,' since it has apparently ear-like
protuberances at the sides of its head. The commonest of
the marine eels is the rafiia, a sandy-grey speckled creature
with a flat cruel head. . . . The rafjia is also spoken of as
'
Te Atua i te Tai.' 'The Deity in the Sea,' in contrast to its
fellow of the lake. It is regarded as being the material
embodiment of one of the most important deities of the
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN TIKOPIA 299
Taumako clan. The natinia, a species of sea eel banded in
brown and white, is associated in particular with the Fangarere
people, since it is the ata of the Atna i te Ava, the Deity of
the Channel, who is invoked by them. . . .
" None of the species of eel is eaten under any circum-
stances. It is a creature for which the natives express the
greatest repulsion
—
e fakakinokino^ 'it is disgusting,' they say.
The eel of the lake in particular arouses this aversion. . . .
Perhaps the sentiment of aversion to it and the prohibition
against eating it-^a prohibition which, unlike others, is never
disregarded—can be correlated with the myth as to its
origin. There is not space to give the full text here, but in
brief, the story is that the various species of eel in the guise
of their respective atua, were formed from the niembrum
virile of the Atua i Tafua, being cut therefrom by a female
deity and flung, one portion into the salt water to become
the reef eel, another likewise to become another sea eel and
another into the lake to become the denizen of the fresh
water." ^
Summing up the evidence for traces of totemism in
Tikopia, Mr. Firth observes : "In the first place the ritual
attitude towards natural species does not bulk largely in
Tikopian religion, either on the part of individuals or of
groups. Elaborate ceremonies are conducted to promote the
fertility of the chief plant food-stuffs, but for the animals
associated with spiritual beings and social groups no specific
ceremonies exist, no offerings are made to them, and they
receive little formal attention. Their interest, in native eyes,
is indirect and subsidiary.
" This is the result of the belief that individuals of the
natural species—apart from the food-stuffs mentioned above
—are simply vehicles or manifestations of gods, ancestors, or
other spiritual beings, and a distinction is drawn coherently
by the natives between an individual of the species so con-
trolled or simulated by a supernatural being, and one which
is a purely normal creature.
" It is evident also from this why the idea of the identity
of the natural species or individuals of it with the social group
or with any person thereof is entirely lacking. The '
totem '
^ R. Firth, op. cit. pp. 38 sqq.
300 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA hk. u
animal is neither a representation nor an emblem of the
human group, nor is it a member of the group. Interference
with the creature, or the killing or eating of it, is regarded as
a hostile act, not towards group property or a fellow member,
but towards the deity who may be in possession of it at the
time, and who will punish the sacrilege. The material
object is then differentiated clearly from the spiritual being
who employs it in manifestation. It is the atim who is of
constant importance, who is invoked in many ceremonies ;
his ata is of interest only on random occasions. Moreover,
there is no belief that the social group or any portion of it is
descended from the animal with which it is thus connected.
Origin may be traced through the atua, the supernatural
being, though this concept of descent from the higher deities
is not clearly formulated, and may even be denied by some
informants. The common belief is that each social group
traces its origin to an ancestor, endowed with supernormal
qualities, but conceived as a human being, who lived and died
as such." ^
On the whole, we may say that though the Tikopian
system of beliefs and rites concerning animals and plants
which has been so well described by Mr. Firth is not totemism
in the ordinary sense, yet it may have been developed out of
an earlier system of totemism, the old totems being replaced
by gods and goddesses. If that is so, the Tikopians may be
said to occupy an intermediate stage in the progress from
totemism with its magical rites to religion with its worship of
divinities.
^ R. Firth, op. cit. pp. 43 sq.
CHAPTER V
TOTEMISM IN THE SANTA CRUZ GROUP AND IN THE
SHORTLAND ISLANDS
The Santa Cruz group is a cluster of islands lying to the
north-west of Tikopia, and to the east of San Cristoval,
one of the Solomon Islands. The natives have a system of
totemism of the most regular pattern, as it is described by the
late W. H. R. Rivers. He says :
" The part of Melanesia
in which we have the clearest evidence of genuine totemism
is the Santa Cruz group. We know so little of the culture of
this region that the matter may not be so simple as it seems,
but on the available evidence this group possesses the institu-
tion of totemism of the most typical kind in the form of
exogamous clans, the members of each of which arc bound
together by the possession of a common totem, usually an
animal. When the totem is an animal it may not be killed or
eaten by the members of the clan ;
when it is a plant it may
not be eaten or even touched ; and when, as in Vanikolo,
the totem is an object of an unusual kind, there are definite
restrictions on its use. Members of the grass clan may not
walk on the grass, and those of the bowl clan may not eat food
cooked in a bowl. Further, there is a definite belief in descent
either from the totem or from some one connected with the
totem ; thus, members of the bowl clan trace their descent
from a woman who floated to the island in a bowl.
" In Vanikolo we seem to have a condition unusual in
Melanesia in that each clan possesses only one totem, but it
may be that only the names of the chief totems were given to
me, and that there are here, as elsewhere, other and subsidiary
totems. In the main island of Santa Cruz and in the Reef
301
302 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ii
Islands, on the other hand, each exogamous clan has associ-
ated with it several animals which may not be eaten, and in
most cases there is no evidence that one of these is more
important than the rest." ^
Further, Rivers found a system of totemism in the
Shortland Islands. On this subject he says: "In the
Shortland Islands there are exogamous matrilineal clans
(latu), with each of which two totems called respectively tua
and tete are associated, the former meaning grandfather or
male ancestor, the latter grandmother or female ancestor.
Only some of these animals are forbidden as food and those
so treated are called tabu or tabutabu, the former being used
with the possessive suffix {tabugii) and the latter with the
possessive noun {sagti tabutabu). It may be noted that there
was general agreement about the totems called tua, only one
being assigned to each clan, while the accounts of the tete
were more uncertain, one animal being given at one time or by
one informant, and another or others on other occasions." ^
1 W. H. R. Rivers, The History of ii. 75 sq.
Melanesian 6'c7<;z>/;/ (Cambridge, 1914), ^ W. H. R. Rivers, op. cit. p. 77.
CHAPTER VI
TOTEMISM IN THE SOLOMON ISLANDS
In Arosi, the north-western district of the island of San
Cristoval, a large island of the Solomon Group, the natives
possess a regular system of totemism which has been de-
scribed as follows by the experienced missionary, Dr. C. E.
Fox.^
" From this short account of Arosi itself I pass on to the
social organization of its people. They are divided into
exogamous clans with matrilineal descent (except in one or
two cases to be referred to presently), and each clan has a
totem which is generally a bird. The clans are not named
after these bird totems, but there is a universal belief that the
people of each clan are descended from their totem. The
totem bird is treated with great respect, neither killed nor
eaten, and was apparently sacrificed to. There are two
interrogative pronouns in the Arosi language, one used ex-
clusively for persons and the other for everything else ; a
tei for persons, taha for things ; but if you enquire about a
man's clan it is common to use the former : A tei buru7iga
mu ? Who is your clan ? and the bird is given—eagle, hawk,
kingfisher, etc., and burtinga, one of the words for clan,
means also remote ancestor, and is used by Christian natives
for Adam and Eve. In several cases, too, there are definite
stories of the origin of the clans from women or girls who
turned into birds, as in the case of the owl clan, whose
ancestor was the girl who changed herself into an owl to escape
from her mother. As for the taboo on eating or killing the
totem bird, it certainly was strictly enforced, though there
^ C. E. Fox, The Threshold of the Pacific (London, 1924).
303
304 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ll
may be more laxity at the present time. I have not heard of
any rehgious ceremonies connected with the totems, and
probably none are observed nowadays ;
but there is some
evidence that sacrifices were once generally offered in the
existence of the dara manu, sacred bowls, literally '
bird
bowls.' These are carved and very highly prized food bowls
in which sacrifices are even still offered. One of those figured^
has a snake carved in the middle of the bowl, and is the dara
manu of the snake clan in which sacrifices are offered to the
snake, of which only the men belonging to the snake clan can
partake. The bowl, with a bird holding a fish in its mouth,
had sacrifices placed in it when the people went fishing, the
fishermen eating them. . . .
" The clans were (and still are) exogamous with matri-
lineal descent, but it must be remembered that schools and
civilization have for many years been breaking down the clan
system in Arosi. Natives are now to be found who do not
know to what clan they belong. This is partly due to the
fact that Christianity has been breaking down the clan
system as it regulated marriage, for the earlier missionaries
either did not know of the existence of the clans (even Dr.
Codrington did not) or perhaps deliberately ignored them
and encouraged marriage within the clan ; lately a conference
of native teachers decided to forbid a man to marry a woman
of the same clan, but this rule was not allowed by the synod
of the diocese. Formerly the clans were strictly exogamous,
and though marriages within the clan took place, at the least
a heavy fine had to be paid by the offender. An exception
should perhaps be made of the clan of the chiefs (Araha) as
pedigrees show many marriages of Araha men to Araha
women. It is chiefly in the coast villages that the clan
regulations have become laxer, and it is in these villages
that the taboo against killing the totem is more lightly
regarded, yet even there it is still respected. A Tawatana
man lately told me he certainly would not kill either the totem
of his father (eagle) or that of his mother (crab), but especially
the latter ; he said that if one of the crab clan were murdered
he, with all other crab people along the coast, would feel
bound to punish the murderer ; but if an eagle man were
^ The bowl is figured in Dr. Fox's book.
CH. VI TOTEMISM IN THE SOLOMON ISLANDS 305
killed he would only be '
a little angry.' There is certainly
respect for the father's totem." ^
" Probably it is true to say that there is now very little
religious meaning attached to the totems ; and the clan system
is purely a social organisation. A member of a clan can
always appeal to all the other members of his clan for help
and protection and can never be destitute. Wherever he
goes in Arosi he will find clansmen who will give him hos-
pitality, and even beyond Arosi, but curiously enough, not so
much in Bauro as in Guadalcanar or Malaita, and especially
in Guadalcanar ; the clans have different names there, but
are identified (by the lines on the palm of the hand) with
the Arosi clans. Some Guadalcanar men lately arrived in
Arosi, having run away from a plantation in Guadalcanar,
eighty niiles distant, and were at once received and helped
by the people of the Arosi clan corresponding with their own.
An Ulawa man going to Guadalcanar to a village two
hundred miles from his home, found people of his own clan
(he was told he was Lakuili). A white trader in San Cristoval
was told, after his labourers had examined the palms of his
hands, that he belonged to a certain clan, and found much
advantage from it."
^
Totemism is also found in the small island of Santa Anna,
lying off the south-east coast of San Cristoval. There are
only two villages, one on the lee and the other (the original
settlement) on the weather side, but both these villages are
very large as Melanesian villages go, much larger than any
on the mainland. The village on the weather side is now the
larger, containing between four and five hundred people,
but according to native tradition the older village was very
much older than this. It is the original village, called
Finnatogo, which is here described. Down the middle of
this ran a road about three-quarters of a mile long, and the
houses were built on each side. Three of the five clans into
which the people were divided lived on one side of this road,
and two on the other. They were further divided into pairs.
Atawa and Amwea, living opposite one another, shared a
burial ground ; Agave and Garohai, the next pair, also had
a burial ground in common, while Pagewe lived alone.
^ C. E. Fox, op. cit. pp. 10 sq. " C. E. J"ox, op. cit. pp. 12 sq.
X
3o6 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ii
Agave, however, had a small subdivision, Pwapwaroro, who
lived with them.
These clans arc named after animals. Pagewe is the
shark, Agave the crab, Pwapwaroro the firefly, Garohai the
turtle. The members of the clans believe they are the de-
scendants of the animals after which the clans are named ;
stories are told of the original animal ancestor of the clan :
no member may eat of the animal from which his clan takes
its name ;
and sacrifices and prayers are regularly offered
by the members of clans to their animal ancestors. Thus
totemism seems here to have developed into a worship of
ancestors, only the ancestors are animals, not human beings.
In the case of the Garohai or turtle clan, the story of the animal
ancestor runs as follows. In very ancient days, before Santa
Anna existed, a turtle lived on the neighbouring island of
Santa Catalina. This turtle had two children, a boy and a
girl. The children noticed that the turtle used to take
coconuts and bananas and plant them on a certain spot at
the bottom of the sea, not far from Santa Catalina, and by and
by they asked their mother her reason for planting these
things at the bottom of the sea. The turtle, in reply, told her
children to make a hook from a piece of her shell, and when
they had done this they got out their outrigger canoe and
paddled over to the spot where the turtle had been busy
planting useful trees underneath the sea, and there they cast
their hook, which the turtle fixed on to a rock below, and
the children pulled lustily, but the rock broke. However, the
turtle fastened it to another rock which was firmer, and the
children hauled on the line, and up came Santa Anna, all
ready prepared and planted. And as for the truth of this
story you have only to go to thf east side of the island and
there before your eyes is the broken rock on which the hook
failed at the first attempt. The names of the children of the
turtle were Waikariniparisu and Kapwarinaro. The girl
Kapwarinaro bore children, and it is from them that all the
turtle people come. They throw into the sea money, nuts,
and food of various sorts to turtles. None of the turtle clan
may eat any part of a turtle, and the consequence of breaking
this rule, even in ignorance, is death. The turtle clan is the
chief clan on Santa Anna, since to their ancestress the people
CH. VI TOTEMISM IN THE SOLOMON ISLANDS 307
owe the island itself. They have a peculiar privilege. At
the eastern point is the stone that broke, and there beside it
the two children of the turtle turned into two rocks. When
boys and girls in Santa Anna come to a certain age they go
through a ceremony called Haaraha, i.e. " making great " or
" becoming a chief" (" Apparently all perform this ceremony
in Santa Anna ; in Arosi it is only done by members of the
Araha clan "). At the final feast the boy or girl is placed on
a platform and decorated with ornaments, and then a boy of
the Garohai (turtle) clan goes to the sacred rock-children and
covers them over with coconut leaves, and on the day fixed
for the Haaraha, the candidate goes to the Garohai boy and
gives him money, which his father has provided him with,
and they go together to the place, and the Garohai boy then
uncovers the two stone children to the gaze of the boy or girl,
who now becomes araha. ^ It is a time of great feasting and
merrymaking, and any Garohai boy may act as master of the
ceremonies, some boy probably who wishes to make a little
money for himself.^ Mr. Fox does not tell us whether the
clans in Santa Anna are exogamous, but on the analogy of
the totemic clans in Arosi, which are certainly exogamous,
we may perhaps assume that the totemic clans in Santa Anna
are so also.
Elsewhere Dr. Fox tells us, " The totemism of Santa Anna
is typical totemism of its kind, especially as regards its two
clans called Garohai (Turtle) and Agave (Crab). It seems
to have been added to a dual organization, Atawa and
Amwea, which existed there before the totem people reached
Santa Anna." Further he says that " the totemism of Arosi
must be connected with that of Bougainville and the Short-
lands, in that the totems are birds, and also because it is
associated with cremation. Cremation is also found in
Guadalcanar. Bird totemism has not been described there,
but one may be confident that it will be found there also.
Bird clans occur in south-east Malaita." ^
With regard to the existence of totemism in Bougainville
and Buka, the two most northerly islands of the Solomon
group, we have the evidence of Miss Beatrice Blackwood,
^ In Arosi this name araha desig- ^ C. E. Fox, op. cit. pp. 71 sqq.
nates the clan of chiefs. ^ C. E. Fox, op. cit. pp 350-351.
3o8 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA BK. il
who spent a year in the islands in 1929 and 1930. " On
Buka and North Bouf^ainville there are two main divisions.
Naboin and Nakarih. Their relative importance is deter-
mined by the one to which the chief belongs taking precedence
over the other. They are frequently referred to by the names
of their respective totems. The totem of Naboin is invariably
manu, the large brown eagle. That of Nakarib varies in
different districts. On Buka it is kekeleo, which, curiously
enough, is the domestic fowl, an importation. That this is
a relatively recent innovation seems indicated also by the
fact that on Bougainville the totem of Nakarib is karib, the
tree-rat.
"These divisions must be described as clans and not as
moieties, because in many villages there are one or more
others, which, though they have but few representatives and
may be on that account of less importance, are nevertheless
independent in status, and are never regarded as subdivisions
of the two just mentioned. These smaller clans vary in name
and number in different localities ;
the largest number known
to me in any one village is nine. Any of them may be un-
represented in a given village for a long time, and may be
reintroduced by marriage. Descent is invariably matrilineal.
But by mutual agreement a member of one clan may be
adopted into another, though this is not a common practice.
On the whole, the clan division seems to play a less important
part in the life of these natives than it does in other Melanesian
communities." ^
Marriage is normally exogamous, and man and wife
belong, as a rule, to different villages. There are no enjoined
marriages. Unions between relatives, including parallel and
cross cousins, are forbidden. There is, however, a certain
amount of slackness in the observance of these prohibitions
at the present time. There is a strict rule of avoidance
between a woman and her sons-in-law. She must always
have within reach a long hood of pandanus leaves stitched
together, with which to hide her face on the approach of her
sons-in-law. They, on their side, must avoid coming into
^ Beatrice Blackwood, " Report on 1931), p. 213. Buka is an island some
Field Work in Buka and Bougain- thirty miles long lying immediately to
ville," in Oceania, vol. ii. No. 2 (Dec. the north of Bougainville.
CH. VI TOTEMISM IN THE SOLOMON ISLANDS 309
close contact with their mother-in-law. There are no
restrictions on social intercourse between a girl and her
husband's parents, with whom she usually spends a great
part of her life between betrothal and the consummation of
the marriage.-^
^ B. Blackwood, op. cit. pp. 214 sq.
CHAPTER VII
TOTEMISM IN ONTONG JAVA
Ontong Java comprises about one hundred small islands
arranged in and around a lagoon thirty-five to forty miles
long by twenty broad at its widest point. It lies to the north-
east of the Solomon Islands at approximately latitude five
degrees south and longitude one hundred and sixty degrees
east. The northern tip of the island of Ysabel, one hundred
and fifty miles to the south-west, is the nearest point of the
Solomon group. All the islands are barely above the reach
of high tides, and are entirely of coral formation. There
is no soil beyond sand and coral detritus mixed with decayed
vegetation, and the variety of the flora is extremely limited.^
The social and totemic organisations of the islanders have
been investigated and described by Mr. H. Ian Hogbin, who
spent about a year in the islands, from November 1927 till
November 1928. Of the natives he tells us that they speak
a dialect of Polynesian, and, as is usual with these dialects,
we find a regular consonantal change. In appearance the
islanders also show definite affinities with the Polynesians.
They are light in colour, ranging from copper to brown, and
the hair of the majority is wavy. There are, however, quite a
number with straight hair and others with woolly mops re-
sembling the Melanesians of the Solomon Islands.
There are two tribes at Ontong Java. The territory of
the more important runs from the island of Pei in the north
of the atoll, right around the lagoon to the island of Kape'i
in the north-west. The remaining islands, all in the north,
^ H. Ian Hogbin, " The Social Oceania, vol. i. No. 4 (Jan. -March
Organization of Ontong Java," in 1931)) p- 399-
310
CH. VII TOTEMISM IN ONTONG JA VA 311
belong to the other tribe. These two groupings of people
shall be spoken of as the Luaniua and the Pelau tribes
respectively, after the two main villages.^
With regard to the social division of the natives they have,
besides individual families, wider groups which Mr Hogbin
calls joint families. These include normally all the persons
who trace their descent through males back to a common
ancestor who lived as a rule about six generations ago.
Sometimes it may also include some individuals who trace
their descent from this ancestor through females, but this is
exceptional. The group has a " manager," who is always the
eldest member. He may be spoken of as the headman ;
in him all the landed property is vested. There is no
mechanism to provide for the division of joint families.
They do divide, for very few count descent from a common
ancestor who lived more than six generations ago, but there
is no ordered scheme by which the subdivision is effected.^
If we describe a totem as an object, generally, but not
always, an animal or plant, with which a group of people
have a ritual relation, then all the wealthy joint families at
Ontong Java have a totem, and some of them two or three.
In the ordinary course of events the child takes the totem of
his father, but if he belongs to the joint family of his mother,
then it is hers that he will take. The accompanying list
gives some of the more important groups with their totems :
Keila
312 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA hk. II
(banded demoiselle fish), etc. It will be noticed that one of
the totems of Kemalu is not a natural object.
Edible totems may not be eaten. If someone does
accidentally eat his totem, for no one would do so purposely,
there are almost certain to be fatal results, though if the
offender is a woman, she may be sufficiently fortunate to
escape at the expense of bearing an albino child. The
penalty when a man of Oko touches a pakupaku (mussel) is
curious. It is said that a razor-fish will come up to him when
he is swimming and tickle him until he opens his mouth to
laugh. He will then swallow so much water that he will
drown. The more common penalty for infringing the taboo
of the totem is death caused, it is believed, by one of the
species entering the body of the culprit and consuming his
bowels.
There are also prohibitions when the totem is not edible.
If it is a species of tree, then the rule is that the timber may
neither be used in house-building nor may it be burnt. The
most extraordinary totem is the food bowl. At Kemalu this
utensil may not be placed on top of a sleeping-mat nor may
it be carried outside the house unless it is covered.
There is no definite obligation for a man to respect the
totem of his mother, unless, of course, he is adopted into her
group. A vague idea exists, nevertheless, that it is bad to
break the tapu, and it is generally avoided.
Poor joint families do not possess totems. The probable
reason for this is that the group is loosely bound together
when it has only the minimum of property interests.
Ontong Javanese do not regard themselves as in any way
descended from the totems nor do they think they are of the
same substance as themselves. The totems, it is said, were
chosen by the first priests at the command of the culture
goddess Ke luahinge. They consequently have a mythical
origin, but it is quite a different one from the mythical origin
of the people themselves.
It is believed that the totems exert protective powers,
though generally these are not very clearly defined. Folk
tales tell of fishermen whom they have rescued from drowning,
and there are traditions of other people being given aid when
they were in critical situations. The relation of the Kemalu
CH. vii TOTEMISM IN ONTONG JA VA 313
people to their shark totem is rather different. If they are
forbidden to eat shark, so also are sharks forbidden to eat
them.
" One is familiar with ceremonies the object of which is
to increase the totem species, but I believe that up to the
present they have never been recorded either in Polynesia or
Melanesia. Such ceremonies took place regularly at Ontong
Java. They formed part of the sana- festival, but were only
performed by the priests on behalf of their own totems." ^
Unfortunately space did not allow Mr. Hogbin to describe
any of these ceremonies for the multiplication of the totems.
^ H. Ian Hogbin, op. cit. pp. 420 sq.
CHAPTER VIII
TOTEMISM IN THE LOUISIADE GROUP
The Louisiade group is an archipelago lying to the south-
east of New Guinea. The natives belong to that branch of
the Melanesian race to which Dr. Seligmann has given the
name of Massim. The natives of the D'Entrecasteaux
Archipelago, of the Trobriands, and of the south-east ex-
tremity of New Guinea, belong to the same branch of the
widespread Melanesian race.^ Of the Louisiade Group the
most easterly part is the isolated island of Rossel. The social
and totemic organisation of the natives of Rossel have been
investigated and described by Mr. W. E. Armstrong, formerly
Government Anthropologist in Papua, who spent two months
in the island in 192 1.
The island is small, about a hundred square miles in
area ; its greatest length is about twenty miles, and its
greatest breadth is about ten miles, and it has a native
population of about 1500 persons. It is surrounded by a
coral reef, which encloses a large lagoon that measures
about a hundred square miles at the western end, and one of
about twenty square miles at the eastern end. The island is
of volcanic formation, the highest mountain rising to a
height of nearly 3000 feet. It is thickly wooded throughout,
and contains the usual economic plants of this part of the
tropics. The villages are mostly situated in the interior,
many of them at a height of over a thousand feet.^
The natives of Rossel are divided into clans, which
1 C. G. Seligmann, The Mela- ^ W. E. Armstrong, Rossel Island
nesians of British New Guinea (Cambridge, 1928), pp. i sq.
(Cambridge, 1910).
314
CH. VIII TOTEMISM IN THE LOUISIADE GROUP 315
may, without appreciable error, be regarded as exogamous.
There are about fifteen, or possibly a few more, clans on the
island, some of which are widely dispersed. Descent in
them is matrilineal. Each clan is characterised by three
linked totems, plant, bird, and fish, of which the plant is the
principal. The Southern Massim have four linked totems,
bird, plant, fish, and snake, of which the bird is the principal.
Although the usual questions as to the totems only elicit in
Rossel three totems, further enquiry shows that there is a
fourth totem of a different order, and this is the snake, the
fourth totem of the Southern Massim clans. In the case
of the latter this snake is merely a species of snake, which is
not rigidly avoided. The snake totem of a Rossel clan, on
the other hand, may be described as a god—-it is sometimes
regarded as an individual, sometimes as a species. Moreover,
those snakes that function as totems are avoided and feared
equally by all clans, irrespective of their totems. The three
primary linked totems, on the other hand, do not seem to be
the subject of avoidance or respect by any of the clans, though
it is possible that a person would not kill or eat the bird
totem of his father's clan. Avoidance of the father's bird
totem, and to a certain extent of all his totems, is usual
among the Southern Massim and even more pronounced
than avoidance of their own totem. The primary totems of
the Rossel clans are frequently food plants. One important
clan has the sago as totem, and Mr. Armstrong came across
no individuals for whom sago was taboo—it seems unlikely
that the most important food on the island would be taboo
for any one clan.^
An interesting feature of Rossel religion is its systematic
nature ; something of the orderliness of the native monetary
system seems to have crept in to their theology. Rossel
Island has, quite definitely, a supreme deity known as
Wonajo. He, most appropriately, resides on the top of Mount
Rossel, the highest mountain on the island, for the creation
of which he is responsible. Although, originally, Wonajo
and his people seem to have been human in form, on Rossel
he is supposed to take the form of a snake by day and assume
his human form only at night. Most of the gods have this
'
W. E. Armstrong, op. cit. pp. 38 sq.
3i6 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. li
double character, alternating between the human form and
that of a snake. Curiously enough the creator Wonajo is not
the ancestor of the race ;
for the inhabitants of Rossel are
descended from a god, Mbasi, whom Wonajo expressly
invited from Sudest, the nearest island, to be their progenitor.
The origin of a number of elements of culture is ascribed to
Mbasi rather than to Wonajo.
This snake god Mbasi wedded a girl, Konjini, said to be
of fair skin, whom Wonajo found on the island and wooed in
vain. From their union came an egg, and from the egg
issued the first two human beings, from whom all the people
of Rossel are descended.
At this early stage of history, the division of the people into
clans and the rule of their exogamy w^ere instituted by Wonajo
and Mbasi, who gave each clan its specific totems. Totemism
appears to have been already in existence among the gods.
The plant totem of Mbasi was ndua, a kind of banana.
Wonajo, oddly enough, has two of each of the three linked
totems, two plants, two birds, and two fish.
The origin of one of the totems of Wonajo is given in a
tale that describes him as w^andering in the forest on his way
to Mount Rossel, the Olympus of the island. He discovers a
beautiful flower, w^hich is supposed not to exist now. This
he puts in his hair and adopts as his totem, composing a
song about the flower.
Matrilineal descent was established after all the totems
had been distributed. With the plant totem of a god, which
was assigned to one of these mortals, the other totems—bird
and fish—were associated. A clan has, therefore, its three
totems and an intimate relation to a certain god ;
and when
a clan is now asked for its totems, the god is often given as a
fourth totem. But the name of the god is given as if it were
a species of snake, just as the other totems were given as
species and not as individuals. Furthermore, Mr. Armstrong
was told that snakes of these species were sometimes encoun-
tered, and when recognised, were avoided.^
1 W. E. Armstrong, op. cit. pp. 126 sqq.
CHAPTER IX
TOTEMISM IN THE d'ENTRECASTEAUX ARCHIPELAGO
The D'Entrecasteaux Archipelago lies off the east coast of
New Guinea. As we have seen, it is inhabited by the Massim,
a branch of the Melanesian race. The natives of the northern
islands of the archipelago have been investigated and
described by Mr. D. Jenness and the Rev. A. Ballantyne,
of whom the latter had resided for eight years as a missionary
on Goodenough Island, while Mr. D. Jenness spent about
a year in the archipelago in 1911-1912, under the auspices
of the Committee of Anthropology of the University of
Oxford.
After describing the marriage system of the natives, the
authors tell us that " Totemism, if such a term is applicable
here, is an institution altogether apart. The totems are
inherited taboos of a certain kind which affect all the kin,
causing them to abstain from eating certain articles of food.
The children inherit from the father, in a few cases from the
mother as well ; but generally the mother's totem is dis-
regarded by her children, and never, at the present day at
least, descends to her grandchildren. Since most, if not all,
of the inhabitants of a hamlet are connected by kinship,
and have in consequence inherited the same totems, one
may speak of a hamlet as having a certain totem or totems
of its own. Other natives, however, living in the same
hamlet, but either not related at aM to the rest or related only
by marriage, have their own peculiar totems, so that in one
and the same hamlet there may co-exist two or even more
totemic groups. Thus in Mataita (a village or district of
Goodenough) some of the inhabitants of Ululu recognise a
317
3i8 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. il
species of grasshopper (vagitd) as their totem, the rest the
dog {kokd). It is seldom possible in such cases to discover
which group was earliest on the spot, for history amongst these
people is short-lived, and an event of twenty years back is
almost outside the range of memory.
" The origin of the totems is, of course, far beyond their
ken, shrouded in the mists of the past. Their ancestors in
the youth of the world came up out of the ground at Gauyaba,
in the centre of the island. It was they who imposed the
taboos, for a reason known to themselves alone. One man
conjectured that their spirits passed at death into their
totems, and hence the totem has received the name of '
grand-
parent '
{kMbuktt) ; but others emphatically denied this
doctrine. The word talagi for totem is as common as
kubuku ; so too is tabu, whether it be an introduced word or
not. But whatever be the mystic bond which unites the
native with his totem, there are, or were, very material
penalties for any infringement of it. Eyes and cheeks will
swell, the hair will drop out, ulcerous sores will cover the
body of the man who dares to kill or eat it. Death will
follow quickly unless for three days, morning, noon, and
night, he washes in the sea, and three times during the hours
of darkness inside his hut. Kinsmen dare not go near him,
but friends whose totems are different must take care of him ;
thus only is there any hope of his recovery. Even if, wander-
ing in the woods, a man should set his foot on his dead
totem, his foot will be covered with ulcers ; or should it be
cooked and eaten in his village by another native, he will die,
and the native who cooked it must pay the blood-price to
his relatives. Some, when they see their totem lying dead
in the track, make a wide detour to avoid it, others flee,
and pay a friend of another totem to go and bury it. There
is no connexion between totemism and the rules regulating
marriage : on this point the natives were emphatic. Persons
whose totems are the same can marry, and have done so in
two cases with which we are familiar. It is not common,
because marriage cannot occur within the kin, and neighbours
who have the same totem are usually connected in some way
by kinship.
" The totem may be a bird, a fish, an animal, or a plant.
CH. IX D'ENTRECA S TEA UX ARCHIPELA GO 319
Some Wailaka ^ people gave even a rock as their totem, and
some Waibulaus ^ the Pleiades and Venus (or possibly Sirius) ;
but these should be considered doubtful. It is probable that
they are taboos of another kind, in the case of Pleiades and
Venus possibly a taboo on the names. The prohibitions
attached to the totem seem invariably to refer to the eating
of it, or, in the case of the plants, to their use for flavourings
with food. All the plant totems, as far as we know, can be,
and are, so used by other natives with different totems, and
all the birds and fish and animals. This is all the more
strange because at Kiriwina, in the Trobriands, the totems
are said to be quite different. There, marriage within the
totem is forbidden, although stray cases were known in the
old days, regarded much as we should regard a brother and
sister marriage ;
the father's totems may not be eaten there,
although the mother's, which alone the man inherits, may be
eaten freely. The so-called link totems are unknown on
Goodenough. The totem of a family may be a bird, a fish, a
plant, or an animal, one or all of these, or several of any one ;
in fact any combination of them at all with no apparent
system. Bird totems slightly preponderate." ^
In Dobu, an island of the D'Entrecasteaux Archipelago
lying off the south-eastern extremity of New Guinea, the
rules regulating totemism seem to be somewhat different, for
on this subject Mr. R. F. Fortune tells us :
" Each village
has a set of linked totems, a bird ancestor, a fish, and a tree.
Every person may make free with his or her own totemic
objects, provided spouse or father is not also of the same
totem. No person may eat the bird, eat the fish, or use the
tree for firewood of the spouse's village ; no person may eat
bird or fish or use the tree for firewood of the father's village.
Deference is paid to the linked totems of a spouse even where
they are also own totems, and deference is paid to the linked
totems of the father, even where they are also own
totems. . .
." ^
^ Parts of Goodenough Island. ford, 1920), pp. 66 sqq.
^ D. Jenness and A. Ballantync, * '^.Y.YorX.wn^, Sorcerers of Dobu
The Northern D^Entreeasieaux (Ox- (London, 1932), p. 36.
CHAPTER X
TOTEMISM IN THE TROBRIAND ISLANDS
The Trobriand Islands are a group of islands lying a little
way to the north of the D'Entrecasteaux Archipelago. The
natives, who are Melanesians, have a system of totemism
which has been described as follows by Professor B. Mal-
inowski, our principal authority on the islanders.
" Right across the political and local divisions cut the
totemic clans, each having a series of linked totems, with a
bird as principal one. The members of these four clans are
scattered over the whole tribe of Boyowa,^ and in each village
community, members of all four are to be found, and even in
every house there are at least two classes represented, since
a husband must be of a different clan from his wife and
children. There is a certain amount of solidarity within the
clan, based on the very vague feeling of communal affinity
to the totem birds and animals, but much more on the many
social duties, such as the performance of certain ceremonies,
especially the mortuary ones, which band the members of a
clan together. But real solidarity obtains only between mem-
bers of a sub-clan. A sub-clan is a local division of a
clan, whose members claim common ancestry, and hence
real identity of bodily substance, and also are attached to the
locality where their ancestors emerged. It is to these sub-
clans that the idea of a definite rank attaches. One of the
totemic clans, the Malasi, includes the most aristocratic sub-
clan, the Tabalu, as well as the lowest one, the local division
of the Malasi in Bwoytalu. A chief of the Tabalu feels very
insulted if it is ever hinted that he is akin to one of the
^ Boyowa is the largest island of the Trobriand group.
320
CH. X TOTEMISM IN THE TROBRIAND ISLANDS 321
stingaree-eaters of the unclean village, although they are
Malasi like himself. The principle of rank attached to
totemic divisions is to be met only in Trobriand sociology ;
it is entirely foreign to all the other Papuo-Melanesian
tribes." ^
^ B. Malinowski, Argonauts of the
Western Pacific (London, 1922), pp.
70 sq. An earlier, and somewhat more
detailed account, of totemism in the
Trobriands is given by. Dr. C. G.
Scligmann in his book. The Alela-
nesians of British New Guinea (Cam-
bridge, 1 910), pp. 677 sqq. His
account has already been reported by
me in Totemism and Exogatny, iv.
280 sq., and need not be repeated here.
The names of the four totemic and
exogamous clans mentioned by Pro-
fessor Malinowski in the passage
quoted in the text are Malasi, Lukuba,
Lukosisiga, and Lokulobuta.
CHAPTER XI
TOTEMISM IN NEW BRITAIN AND NEW IRELAND
The large islands of New Britain and New Ireland, lying to
the north of the eastern extremity of New Guinea, are the
most northern members of the Melanesian chain. Their
totemic system has been briefly but clearly described by Dr.
George Brown, an experienced missionary who had the good
fortune to know the natives intimately at a time when they
were still little affected and corrupted by contact wuth
European civilisation. His description runs thus :
—
" In describing the family life of the New Britain people,
it must be remembered that all the people in New Britain,
Duke of York,^ New Ireland, are members of two exogamous
classes named respectively, at Duke of York, Pikalaba and
Maramara. These classes live together in the same village.
The totem of the Maramara class is an insect called ko gila le,
which means the leaf of the horse-chestnut. The insect is
so called because it mimics the leaf of that tree, and when
resting on it it is very difficult to distinguish between the
leaf and the insect. The totem of the Pikalaba class is the
kam {inantis religiosus). Each class calls its respective
class takun miat, which means '
our relatives,' but I do not
think they believe they were descended from them. It
appears to me to be a term expressing the close and intimate
connection between the members of each class and the totem
to which they respectively belong. Neither class will injure
^ The Duke of York is a small Brown was particularly well acquainted
island lying off the eastern extremity with it. I had the advantage of know-
of New Britain, and intermediate ing and esteeming him personally.
—
between it and New Ireland. Dr. J. G. F.
322
CH. XI NEJV BRITAIN AND NEW IRELAND 323
its totem, and any injury inflicted by one class on the totem
of the other would certainly be considered as an insult and
would occasion a serious quarrel. All lands, fruit trees,
fishing-grounds in the lagoon belong definitely to the
respective classes. A Maramara cannot set his fish-trap on
Pikalaba fishing-stones, and vice versa. Such an act would
certainly cause a fight.
" Intermarriage in either class is absolutely forbidden.
Any such marriage would be considered incestuous, and
would bring speedy punishment ; in fact the whole of the
people would be horrified at such an event, and the parties
would almost certainly be killed. They also called incestuous
{kuou) any one who killed or ate any portion of a person of
the same class as himself, e.g. a Maramara who killed or ate
a Maramara. The children all belong to the mother's
class. These respective classes are well known, but there
are no outward signs or marks to distinguish them. I think
that in theory, but in theory only, every Maramara woman
is every Pikalaba man's wife, and vice versa, but there is
no trace, so far as I know, of anything like communal
marriage ; on the contrary, it appears to me that the regula-
tions prohibiting the intercourse, or even mentioning the
names of relatives, show that this was very repugnant to
public sentiment and feeling.
" The children of two brothers would belong to a different
totem from their own and in theory a man might marry his
niece, but this was never done, so far as I know. A man,
however, could not possibly marry his sister's daughter,
because she would be of the same totem as himself."^
The social and totemic system of the natives of New
Ireland has been investigated and described by Dr. Hortense
Powdermaker, who spent ten and a half months, from March
1929 to February 1930, at Lesu, a village on the east coast of
the island. Her account of the system runs as follows :
—
" Cutting across the local groupings are the lines of
kinship. The society is divided into two exogamous moieties,
Telenga, the fish -hawk, and Kongkong, the eagle. The
meinbers of each moiety regard themselves as related to
each other in a classificatory manner. Each moiety is
' G. Brown, Melanesians and Polynesia7ts (London, 1910), pp. 27 sqq.
324 TOTEMISM IN MELANESIA bk. ll
divided into a number of clans, an extended family group,
all the members of which are related in the female line.
The Hawk and Eagle moieties appear to extend over all of
New Ireland and the Tabar Islands too, and the rule of
exogamy functions wherever the moieties are found. The
subdivision into clans, however, seems to vary in different
linguistic units. Because of the rule of matrilocal residence,
members of a clan may reside in different villages, usually in
near-by ones of the same linguistic unit. If, for example, a
Lesu man marries a woman from Ambwa, he will usually go
to live there, leaving his clan relatives at Lesu. But he will
return to Lesu for all rites and events in which the latter are
concerned, and will be buried there. The female members
of the clan, because of the same rule of matrilocal residence,
are more likely to reside in the same village and hamlet.
Also, as marriages within the same village are quite common,
a man will frequently not have to change his residence upon
marriage.
" Although Eagle and Hawk are the names of the two
moieties, there is, as far as I could learn, no theory of descent
from either animal. The native explanation of the origin
of the moiety and clan structure, as well as of the whole
social organization and of the culture itself, is contained in a
myth about their ancestral heroine, Tsenabonpil. The
narrative relates in detail how the people of Lesu went to
one of the Tabar islands near by because they were afraid
of a pig named Luana, who ate people. The old woman,
Tsenabonpil, was left behind because she had a swollen leg
(probably elephantiasis) and it was feared that she would
sink the canoe. After people left, she had intercourse with a
kiwiwi bird, and she gave birth to twin boys, Daror and
Damuramurari. When the boys grew up Tsenabonpil told
them that they must kill the cannibalistic pig, Luana.
After many adventures they succeeded in capturing and
killing him. Then the old woman sent some of the hair of
the pig, attached to a coconut leaf, to Tabar, to indicate to
the Lesu people that the pig had been killed. They returned
in their canoes to Tabar (Lesu ?), and now Tsenabonpil
gave them their totemic structure and all knowledge. She
cut marks on a tree to designate the two moieties, and then
CH. XI NEW BRITAIN AND NEW IRELAND 325
made further markings as she called out the names of all the
clans. At the same time she gave them knowledge of magic,
of medicine, of all their crafts, and of everything else they
now know. After this she and her two sons disappeared. . . .
" Each clan is associated with a small piece of ground,
occasionally with a part of a reef, or a passage of water, and
sometimes all three. This clan or tsenalis ground is owned
communally by the clan members, and on it is supposed to
dwell a totemic pig or snake (sometimes both), or, in the case
of water, a shark. The adjective tsenalis is also used to
describe the animal, which is friendly to people of its class,
but hostile to those of others. The animal is supposed to
have lived on this ground for ever, and it is believed that it
will continue to do so." ^
" Besides the clan animal each piece of clan land is
inhabited by the gas, a double of each living member of the
clan. It is difficult to get a very exact idea of the gas, other
than that each man, woman, and child possesses one, that it
dies when its human counterpart dies, that it may take
different forms (in one tale it appears as a dwarf), that it
lives in a Inna tree, and that it is rarely seen by its human
counterpart. However, occasionally the folk-tales recount
a meeting between a human being and 2. gas. . .
." ^
" The clan and moiety are much more than mere totemic
divisions of the society, for they are also very active function-
ing units. Since the moieties are exogamous, they set the
structure for sex life. Members of the Hawk moiety must
pick their mates from the Eagle moiety and vice versa.
Transgressing this rule, either in or out of marriage, is the
worst crime of Lesu society. Between the moieties there is
a set of reciprocal duties, including an exchange of food at
pregnancy, birth, circumcision, first menstruation, marriage
and death rites. As the members of a moiety are scattered
through households, hamlets, and villages, they generally
function as a unit only at these rites. The clan, on the other
hand, functions frequently as an economic unit, the members
assisting each other in all their important undertakings." ^
"^
H. Powdcrmaker, Life in Lcsu ' II. Povvdcrmaker, op. cit. pp.
(London, 1933), pp. 33 sqq. 40 sq.
^ H. Powdermaker, op. cit. p. 39.
BOOK III
TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA
CHAPTER I
TOTEMISM IN BRITISPI NEW GUINEA (PAPUA)
The native population of British New Guinea is racially
divided into two sections, an eastern and a western. The
eastern section are Melanesians, who are believed to have
immigrated into New Guinea from the islands of Melanesia.
The western section are Papuans, who may be supposed to
be the aborigines. They are relatively tall, dark-skinned,
frizzly-haired, while the Melanesians are smaller and lighter
in colour. The line of cleavage between the two races occurs
about Cape Possession on the eastern side of the Gulf of
Papua. ^ In representatives of both races the institution of
totemism has been recorded. For the Melanesians the
evidence has been given by Dr. C. G. Seligman in his book
The Melanesians of British Nezv Guinea. That valuable
work reached me too late to allow me to incorporate its
results in the body of Toteviisjii and Exogamy; but in an
appendix to that book I gave a summary account of the
evidence adduced by Dr. Seligman of totemism among
the Melanesians.^ Here I will notice only such evidence
of totemism in British New Guinea, whether among the
Melanesians or the Papuans, as has come to light since the
publication of Dr. Seligman's work and my own.
Thus among the eastern or Melanesian people totemism
has been found and described by Mr. Henry Newton, a
missionary attached to the Anglican Mission at Samarai,
which is the extreme south-eastern point of New Guinea.
^ C. G. Seligmann, The A/cla- * Totemism and Exogamy, iv.
nesians of British New Guinea (Cam- 276 sqq.
bridge, 1910), p. I.
329
330 TO TEA!ISM IN NEW GUINEA bk. ill
His knowledge of the natives seems to extend at least to
Wedan on the east coast of New Guinea and to Boianai on
the south coast. -^
His account of totemism among these
people runs as follows :
—
" One cannot have much to do with the natives of New
Guinea without being struck with the important part played
by totemism in their lives and thoughts, and the influence it
has upon their dealings with one another. . . . Totemism re-
presents the principles which regulate the social life of the
people. It regulates marriage, it decides the section of the
community to which the offspring belongs, it enters into the
ceremonies connected with death, it creates a sort of free-
masonry or family relationship which influences the behaviour
of people to others far removed from them in place of abode,
in dialect, in customs. All who have the same totem are
looked upon as being related one to another, and wherever
they go they can claim hospitality and protection from all
whose totem is the same. People go to a district they have
never been to before, there they find fathers and mothers,
grandfathers and grandmothers, and they puzzle you as they
talk about them, till you remember they are totem relation-
ships, not family ones.
" The people can give no definite tradition as to how they
came to be connected with the bird or fish or animal they
revere as their totem. Sometimes men have said, '
Our bird
came from such-and-such a direction '
—the direction from
which the particular sept is supposed originally to have come
—' and settled here '
—presumably leading the early settlers—
'
and allotted to us this part of the village and portioned out
to us our garden land, and we hold it now by that title of
possession.' All of one sept, those who claim a particular
totem, claim to have sprung from a common origin, to have
sucked originally from a common breast ; those of another
sept, to have had another and different origin. . . . Each
sept has two or more branches, claiming the same chief
totem—though there may be subsidiary totems which are
different—all the branches claim a common origin, but the
differentiation has come about in the course of time, and the
different branches within the one sept have duties and
^ Henry Newton, In Far New Guinea (London, 1914), p. 163.
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA) 331
responsibilities to one another which they only can fulfil, and
which cannot be fulfilled by members of a distinct sept. A sept
that is weak in numbers may be absorbed into another sept.
" Totemism is wider than some other things in New
Guinea, Thus though the Boianai people and those farther
west know nothing of the Walaga,^ and take no part in it,
while the shore people from Wedan eastwards do, yet totem-
ism brings the people of Boianai and those farther west
into close relationship with the people of Wedan and those
farther east.
" The commonest totem is a bird, so much so that the
usual way of asking a man what is his totem is to ask him
what is his bird. Another way is to ask him what is his
'
bariawa,' a word expressing what is out of the ordinary run
of human experience. . . . There are other totems nearly
always subsidiary to a bird, as fish and snakes, and also more
rarely stones and trees.
" A man may not kill his totem, much less eat it, and for
any one to kill it in his presence is to confer a deadly insult.
A missionary when he first came was asked what his totem
was, and unthinkingly, or not knowing what it involved,
said it was a Torres Straits pigeon, and he caused great in-
dignation later on by shooting the pigeons for the pot. . . .
" Men and women of the same totem do not intermarry ;
to do so would be to commit incest. A young man will come
to the missionary and ask advice as to whom he should
marry, as there is no one of a suitable age in the village
whom he can take to wife, and you suggest a name. *
She
is my sister,' he will answer in astonishment, and you, be-
wildered because you thought you knew all his relations, ask,
'
How is she your sister ?
'
—to be told, '
Our origin is the
same,' and you understand it is a totem relationship, as close
for marriage as a blood relationship.^
^ The Walaga is a festival and the ceremony reminds us of the May-
dance that is celebrated only every six pole and the May-dance in Europe,
or seven years. A new village is con- ^ By totem relationship the writer
structed for the celebration. A mango clearly means what is now regularly
sapling is cut down and brought into called classificatory relationship. All
the new village, where it is set up on a totemic peoples, without any excep-
platform, and the people dance and tion, appear to possess a classificatory
sing round it. See H. Newton, pp. system of relationship.—^J. G. F.
cit. pp. 148 sqq. His description of
332 TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA rjK. iii
" Usually the child is of the same sept as the mother,
and takes her totem ; the system is matriarchal, but this is by
no means universally so, and it seems that quite frequently
a youth elects to go either to his father or his mother's sept,
'
to eat with these or those.' Hence it is that the uncle on
the mother's side is a nearer relative to the child than its
own father, so far as relationship implies control over the
child's actions and its future. ... So for the marriage of
minors who are orphans, our custom is to obtain the con-
sent that is required by the law from the uncle on the
mother's side as being the guardian according to native
custom. . . .
" When a person dies, it is someone connected with his
sept or a branch of his sept who digs the grave, the people of
his own sept provide the death feast, and a branch of his
sept eat it, and the dead are buried with their feet in the
direction from which the ancestors originally came when led
by the totem.
" All the members of a sept help each other in such work
as digging up the garden ground, in the building of houses,
and any other work w^hich calls for help. Each sept may also
have its own club-house, and they build their own houses
together in one section of the village.
" Totemism decides for a man to whom he will go when
travelling, on whom he will quarter himself in a strange
village. He may quite rightly, as a matter of course and
without any sense of shame, go and live with people of
the same totem as himself, and if he is of any import-
ance in the sept his hosts will kill a pig for him and his,
and when he goes home load him up with presents of
cooked food for his journey. The visitor does not feel that
he is imposing, for are they not his own people, and will
he not show the same hospitality to them when they visit his
village. . . .
" It is said that should a castaway drift to a strange place
the people who know nothing of him at all would take him
in and befriend him if he gave them to understand his totem
was that of a sept living in the place, and that sept would
provide him with garden land, keeping him till his food was
grown and he could keep himself. On the other hand,
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {^PAPUA) 333
should his totem be unknown he would most probably be
killed." 1
Orokaiva is the name now given to a group of tribes who
inhabit the greater part of the Northern Division of Papua
from Oro Bay north-westwards to the borders of the Man-
dated Territory. All the tribes included in this area speak
dialects of a common language : the best known of them are
the Binandele, who live in the north of the division, on the
Mambare river.
All these tribes are divided into clans, each of which has
what Mr. Williams calls an emblem. The emblem is usually,
though not invariably, a plant or tree. The name of the em-
blem varies from tribe to tribe. The Aiga tribe, with which
Mr. Williams is most familiar, call it heratu, and this name
he adopts in speaking of the Orokaiva generally ; but kenatu
is the form of the name in the Binandele and Tain-Daware
languages, and in Wasida a different word, hae, is used. The
Orokaiva are mostly forest people, which may partly explain
their preference for a plant emblem. But besides the plant
emblem there are certain bird associates and simple em-
blematic devices.
For example, in the Wasida tribe Mr. Williams came across
three bird associates, Konibu, a certain black bird whose
name, Konibu, is meant to reproduce its cry ; Hiviki, the
hawk, and Hot'oro, a small ground forager. These were all
subsidiary emblems, and the clans to which they belonged
had heratu or emblems of the ordinary botanic kind. Further,
the birds in these cases were not, as far as Mr. Williams
could ascertain, used for the regular purpose of the heratu,
namely, as a badge or token of identity. However, among
the Binandele the Diriu or common blue pigeon is the em-
blem of a clan, the Diriu clan, and among the Tain-Daware
the Bangai or eagle-hawk is the emblem of the Bangai-unji
clan ; and Mr. Williams was told that the feathers of both
these birds were used as identity marks.
A man uses both the paternal and maternal heratu. The
heratu proper is the former, and the contrary instances
which do occur are exceptional. The heratu of the father
is passed on by inheritance, whereas that of the mother is
^ Henry Newton, op. cit. pp. 160 sqq.
334 TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA bk. in
not normally handed down beyond the generation of her off-
spring.^
On the whole, then, there are some grounds for regarding
these heratu or plant emblems of the Orokaiva as a form of
totemism, and this possibility is considered by Mr. Williams
himself, who in conclusion sums up the case for totemism as
follows :—
" Throughout this chapter I have avoided the word
'
totem,' using in preference the non-committal, if awkward
phrase '
plant emblem.' I may now review the evidence
which might have justified the use of the former term.
" (i) The heratu is normally connected with a definite
social group, viz. the clan (though sometimes with the indi-
vidual and his immediate family).
"
(2) The clan is usually exogamous in practice, though
by no means strictly so.
"
(3) The clan commonly, in the typical case always,
takes its name from the heratu or, more strictly, is synonymous
with the heratu.
"
(4) The clan uses its heratu first and foremost as a
badge.
"
(5) The heratu is called an ancestor (though the
Orokaiva does not really believe that his ancestor can be
plant or tree).
" Thus far it would seem the heratu has conformed very
nearly to the tenets of totemism. It remains to be considered
w^hether the clan possesses any magico-religious sentiment for
its heratu such as typically unites the group and its totem.
" The evidence is here somewhat conflicting. Generally
speaking, the plant emblem is treated with no semblance of
respect or reverence. In clearing the bush, a man will fell
his heratu tree without a thought ;
if it bear edible fruit like
topu, the wild fig, he will eat it ; if it be, as in one case it is,
ambe or sago, he will not forswear one of his principal means
of subsistence. There is a large clan, the Umondaha, one of
whose heratu is nothing more or less than '
Water.'
" In one or two instances, however, informants have
claimed that they will not cut down their own tree ;
though
such are distinctly exceptional. No case has come to light
1 F. E. Williams, Orokaiva Society (Oxford, 1930), pp. 1 12 sqq.
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA) 335
of a useful herahi which its owner will not use. With the
rare bird heratu the case is almost the same. A Diriu man,
ex-constable, averred that he had shot many diriu (blue
pigeon) for his master, and would be only too glad to shoot
and eat another if I would lend him a gun. . . . A man whose
subsidiary heratu is the bird Kombzi says that while he
would not hesitate to kill it (if he could get near it), he would
still refrain from eating it. It is apparently for reasons of
sentiment alone that he would not eat it, for he declares there
would be no evil effects upon him if he did (as I believe he
might) yield to the temptation.
" On the other hand, however, a man of the Bangai-unji,
or '
children of the eagle-hawk,' who use one of its speckled
feathers for their mark, avers that he would neither kill
nor eat the bird ; and, further, volunteers that if a bangai
fledgling, being caught and kept in the village, were to die, it
would not be eaten or thrown away, but buried. Lastly,
there is one isolated note which may have some significance.
The bird Hororo belongs especially to a certain man, Erupa.
Should its cry be heard near the village, the people would say,
*
Erupa will be successful in the hunt to-day.'
" In passing, I may mention a point of some interest.
Among the Orokaiva there are certain strict rules of etiquette
between relatives by marriage (particularly between the man
and his parents-in-law), exemplified by a very strict name-
avoidance. Now, although a man will cut down his own
heratu tree without mercy, he will hesitate to do the same
with a tree that happens to bear the name of his atovo or
imboti, i.e. his father-in-law or his mother-in-law, and may
request one of his companions in the clearing to fell this
particular tree for him. Similarly he will not eat any food,
animal or vegetable which happens to be synonymous with
either of his parents-in-law. Now this rule is based on
sentiment ; there are, as far as my knowledge goes, no
magico-religious sanctions to it ; and where a similar tabu is
observed with regard to the heratu we may probably assume
that this is no more than a sentimental avoidance. . . .
" The conclusion of the present chapter may be sum-
marised very briefly. The clan's heratu originates from the
individual heratu of its leader or ancestor ; and the individual
336 TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA bk. hi
herat7i is some plant which serves as a token of identity
because it bears the name of its owner." ^
In the western or Papuan area of British New Guinea, or
Papua, as it is now called, the Kiwai-speaking Papuans
inhabit the large island of Kiwai, and certain other islands
in the estuary of the Fly River, a couple of villages on the
left (north-eastern) bank of the river, the right bank of the
estuary, and the sea coast towards the w^est as far as Mabu-
davane. Their social and totemic systems have been carefully
examined and described by the Finnish ethnologist. Professor
G. Landtman, who spent two years among them, from April
19 lo till April 1912.^
The totems of the Kiwai islanders, as enumerated by
Professor Landtman, are thirty-three in number and include
the following : wild pig, cassowary, crocodile, small crab,
grasshopper, a mythical animal called ate?-aro, the coconut
palm {oi), the coconut, the sago palm, the nipa palm, the
banana, a wild fruit-tree (inipari), two kinds of croton (^mobea
and osd), seven species of wild trees (of which Professor
Landtman gives the native names), the north-west wind
{Stira?7ia), and a plaited mat (sawa).
Professor Landtman found that the term iiuruniara
(totem) was somewhat ambiguously used by the natives, some
of whom wanted to include in the list of totems various other
things, although their opinion was strongly resisted by the
rest.
Every person in the island of Kiwai has one totem only.
Professor Landtman heard indeed of one man who had two
totems, the croton and the grasshopper ; but it appears that
his true totem was only the croton, to which he had added the
grasshopper totem, because he had been, for some time, the
guardian of a house belonging to the grasshopper clan.
Totems chosen from the vegetable kingdom predominate
in Kiwai island and may be regarded as characteristic of the
natives. Not only are they far more numerous than the rest,
but the people with any other kind of totein are very few.
All the animal totems are also found at Mawak, a village on
^ F. E. Williams, op. cit. pp. 126 Papuans of British Nezv Gumea
sqq. (London, 1927).
G. Landtman, The Kiwai
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA) 337
the coast of the mainland to the west of Kiwai island, except
the wild pig, which is a very rare totem on Kiwai island, but it
is also a totem at Masingle, another village on the coast. The
commonest animal totems, in a relative sense, on Kiwai island,
are the crab and the cassowary. It is curious that though
cassowary is a totem in Kiwai, the bird itself is not found on
the island, which seems to show that as a totem it must have
been introduced from elsewhere. On the whole, the non-
vegetable totems are mostly represented in the villages of
Sumai and lasa on the south-west coast, which are in frequent
communication with the villages in the Mawata region.
The oi and neiabo clans both have the same totem (the
coconut palm), but the clans are regarded as distinct. The
oi clan is one of the most widespread in the island, and the
palm is probably indigenous, while the neiabo clan, which is
represented only by a very few people, properly belongs, it is
said, to the Dibiri people in the east.
The clans of the nipa palm and crab are connected with
each other, just as are the palm and the crab, for the crab
lives under the roots of the palm. In Kiwai island, Professor
Landtman met with one instance only of a name being used
for a totemic group other than that of their totem, a practice
which is so common at Mawata.^
One of the principal dissimilarities between the Kiwai
islanders and the Mawata group of people on the coast
to the west, in most respects so alike, is presented by their
varying totemic system.^
At Mawata each person has one chief totem and several,
in most cases an almost indefinite number, of subsidiary
totems. For example, one of the leading men, Gamea, a
very good informant, declared to Professor Landtman that
his principal totem was the dog and that he had three second-
ary totems, an eel-like creek fish, a creeper with red flowers,
and a fresh-water tortoise. All these he inherited from his
father. But it turned out that Gamea had a number of other
totems, though he did not consider them as important as his
totems proper. A number of secondary totems are in fact
common to different totemic divisions. Even the chief totem
1 G. Landtman, <?/. f/'/. pp. 185 J^i^. pare Totemism and Exogayny, ii. 25
^ On totemism at Mawata, com- sqq.
Z
338 TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA bk. iil
of one group may be treated as a totem by the members of
another group as well.
For this reason the Mawata totems do not furnish any
definite means of dividing the people into clans. There exist,
however, five very distinct clans, each one known by a name
of its own, which is not that of any totem. The five clans
with their principal totems are as follows : Hawidaimere,
chief totem umu (dog) ;
Marowadai, chief totem divare
(cassowary) ;
Doriomo, chief totem hibara (crocodile) ;
Gaidai, chief totem gera (sea-serpent) ;
and Gurahi, chief
totem apiteri (moth). In speaking of the clans, a person will
commonly give the name of the clan, not the name of its
totem, though the name of the totem is sometimes added by
way of explanation. A man will generally mention his first
few subsidiary totems in a certain order, but generally he
does not even remember all the rest at the same time.
It is claimed that all persons belonging to one and the
same clan possess its subsidiary totems as well as its principal
one. This rule, however, can hardly be followed very strictly,
in view of the uncertain character and even number of the
subsidiary totems ; moreover a man will sometimes adopt
his mother's chief totem also.
The clans, as enumerated above, are very important
divisions of the people ;
among other things, they regulate
marriage, all of them being strictly exogamous. A marriage,
on the other hand, is not prohibited between a man and a
woman who have any secondary totems in common.^
The Masingle tribe is situated a little way inland from
Mawata. Their totemic system has several features in
common with that of the Mawata. All the totems of the
Masingle, except possibly one, are animals : dog, pig,
wallaby, bat, cassowary, gaura pigeon, black cockatoo, white
cockatoo, hawk, two species of the bush-fowl, pelican, six
other species of bird, a fish, crocodile, and five species of
snake. Some people said that the bull-roarer was also a
totem.
Every person has one chief totem and a number of sub-
sidiary totems. Those of one of the old leaders named
Webamu were the following : pig (head totem), wallaby,
^ G. Landtman, op. cit. pp. 1S7 sqq.
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA) 339
gaura pigeon, a kind of wild fowl, and five other species of
bird. He belonged to the obentobe clan. The whole popula-
tion is divided into similar clans, all the members of each
having the same chief and subsidiary totems. In several
cases different clans have the same chief totem but different
subsidiary totems. The clans form together two large groups,
named after the two leading clans, the mlobe (chief totem
pig) and the darianie (chief totem cassowary). The two
groups are exogamous, but any man of one group can marry
any woman of the other.
^
The totemic system of the Kiwais is primarily of social,
not religious, significance. Everything that affects the cere-
monial life is kept extremely secret, whereas the people speak
of their totems quite openly in the hearing of anybody. The
totems are never made the objects of any rites whatever,
although, on the whole, observances of some kind or another
entirely fill the people's life.
In spite of the people's seeming willingness to impart
everything they know about their totems, it proves very diffi-
cult to determine the true nature of these. A person's totem
is an object to which he is bound by intangible ties sanctioned
by tradition, but although the moral character of this obliga-
tion is recognised by everyone, no explanation can be given
by the people themselves as to what their relations to the
totems really are. Implicitly following the rules which have
come down to them from their fathers, they never seem to
question the purpose or meaning of these. It is possible,
however, that the people have an instinctive notion regarding
the importance of the totemic system, as a safeguard against
certain dangers to the community (particularly marriage be-
tween close relatives, which is guarded against by the rule
of exogamy), and that in this way the indications of nature
itself have taken the form of a social routine.
The rules incumbent on a person as regards his totem are
mostly of a prohibitory character ; the principal one is not
to harm or kill it (in case of a tree not to fell it) and not to eat
any part of it. Indeed, not to eat an otherwise edible animal
or plant and to have it for a totem are by the natives
considered almost synonymous. Professor Landtman often
^ G. Landtman, op. cit. pp. 189 sq.
340 TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA bk. hi
observed that when men of the cassowary clan were out hunting
they would not kill a cassowary, and that they also abstained
from eating it if it had been killed by somebody else. If, how-
ever, the hunter's dogs had caught and damaged a cassowary,
he would kill it and let somebody else have it. The punish-
ment for either killing or eating the totem is usually said to be
illness. Some people explain that they do not want to kill or
eat their totem animal because they have been taught to feel
sorry for that thing ; and one man added as a reason that
he and the totem were all of the same blood. In former
times not even a man of the crocodile clan would kill his
totem, but nowadays he is said not to spare the beast any
more than he expects to be spared by it. A crocodile-man,
however, never takes part in the eating of his totem. Dugong,
although it is a subsidiary totem of the doriomo clan of
Mawata, is nevertheless eaten by the members of that clan,
probably because the rules are not considered so stringent in
the case of subsidiary totems, and because the dugong is
perhaps the most important article of animal food.
Utility seems further to be the reason why, among the
vegetable totems, coconuts are eaten by members of the
coconut clan. Professor Landtman's informants wanted to
regard this instance as the only real exception to the general
rule against a person eating his owni totem, and in fact in
that country coconuts are almost indispensable both as
food and drink. However, the members of the tamane
(wild yam) clan also eat their totems. If a man of the
bamboo clan needs a bow, he does not cut dowm his
totem to make one, but obtains the bow^ ready made from
a friend.
All totems rank as equal in social estimation, and every-
body cares for his or her totem, without expecting any actual
benefit from it. Occasionally a certain affinity is thought to
exist between a clan and their totem animal ; thus the
men of the dog clan of Mawata were accused of going much
after the w-omen, and very dissolute in their habits, so that
they would have connection even wath a sister.
The first institution of the totems is occasionally at-
tributed to Marunogere or some other mythical hero, but
only as a vague idea. The numerous myths and folk-tales
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA) 341
of the people do not contain any actual information as to the
origin of the totems.
The totems are strictly hereditary in the male line. A
married woman retains her own totem ;
for instance, a novai
girl, even after her marriage, refrains from eating the novai
fruit, although she cooks it for her husband and children,
boys and girls, who eat it. A Mawata girl who marries a
cassowary-man may eat cassowary, although her husband
and children do not. Generally, however, a wife seems to
respect, to a certain extent, her husband's totem as well as
her own. At her husband's death she returns to her own clan,
her children remaining in their father's.
Certain conventional marks representing the totem at
festivals and on other great occasions are often painted on
the bodies of the totemites, or, in the case of plant totems,
leaves of these are attached to the dress. Houses and
temporary huts also are often decorated to show off the totem
of the people to whom they belong. One purpose of this
custom is said to be to inform people from other villages
where their friends of the " blood " live and also to enable the
women to entertain their clansmen with food. On returning
home from war the men often put on their clan marks.
Some of the Mawata clans at least have a particular war-
cry, referring to their respective totem animals, and this cry
the men will utter in the act of killing an enemy.
In former times it seems to have been the rule that every
sufficiently large totem clan in a village occupied a communal
house of its own, which bore the same name as the clan. It
appears to have been the pride of every powerful clan to
possess a separate long-house. The darimo alone, which ac-
commodated all the men, was named independently of totems.
Even at the present time, in villages with long-houses, all
the members of a certain clan will almost invariably be found
living in the same house, and not infrequently occupying it
alone. The niodern comparatively small houses—for instance
at Mawata—accommodate two to four families, and these
without exception have the same totem.
^
We possess another account of Kiwai totemism written
by Mr. W. N. Beaver who, as Resident Magistrate in the
1 G. Landtman, op. cit. pp. 191 sqq.
342 TOTJCMISM IN NEW GUINEA bk. ill
Western Division of Papua or British New Guinea for
twenty-seven years, had ample means of acquainting himself
with the facts which he describes. It confirms, and on some
points supplements, the account given by Professor Landt-
man. It runs as follows :
" There are thirteen totem clans
among the people of Kiwai, and plant totems are the pre-
dominating feature, as distinct from those of Mawata or
Parama or Wabada.^ In fact, only four, namely, the Crab,
the Cassowary, the Catfish, and the Crocodile, are birds or
fish.
" As usual, the totem descends through the father. The
late Mr. Hely, R.M., stated that a woman must take the
totem of her husband, and that this is the reason why a man
must always give a female relative of his own in exchange for
his own wife, in order that the relative strength of the clans
may be maintained.^ People of the same totem must not
intermarry, but this rule is breaking down, especially among
the younger generation. Not very long ago at Ipisia two
young people came to me with a complaint that their parents
objected to their marriage. There seemed to be no reason
why they should not marry, and I did not discover for some
time that the old people's opposition was due to their being
of the same totem. In cases of this kind I think it is generally
unwise to give any direct decision, the matter being much
better left to the good sense of the people themselves. There
is no objection to persons of the same name marrying. The
late Mr. Chalmers stated that a man may marry a step-
daughter and even his own daughter. I have a recollection
of an instance of this latter at Sumai, but I am at a loss to
see how it fits in with the rule that all the children take the
totem of the father. I w^as and still am under the impression
that this was a very exceptional case, one of incest both
from our and from a native point of view. Totemism is
found among the people of the Mamba and Kumusi, although
in no advanced stage as regards exogamy, or perhaps one
might say in a degenerate stage, and I believe incest of this
^ As to Mawata, see above, p. 337. Fly River.
The Parama occupy Bampton Island, ^ See Totemism and ExogatJiy, ii.
and the Wabada occupy Wabada 35 sgq.
Island, both in the estuary of the
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA) 343
kind is not unknown. I have a personal knowledge of at
least one case of recent date where a father married his
daughter and had two children by her, both of which he
killed. Brothers and sisters of course may not marry among
the Kiwais, nor may cousins, although it is well known that
among certain native races, notably the Fijians, a first cousin
marriage, but only between the children of a brother and a
sister, is the best marriage.
" Totems may not be either killed or eaten, and I think
in the main this prohibition is pretty strictly observed, even
if some of the rising generation do not object to eating a
totem animal killed by somebody else. Plant totems having
so strong a position in Kiwai, the application of this rule is
extended much further. For instance, if a tree happens to
be a clan totem, the members of that clan cannot eat its fruit
or use it in any way. Thus the Soko (nipa palm) clan may
not roof their houses with nipa leaf, but must use sago leaf
instead. The Duboro (pandanus) clan must make their
sleeping mats from banana leaf and similarly the Gagari
(bamboo) and Buduru (fig tree) clans may not use their
special totems.
" This totem clan organisation is in reality almost a
brotherhood in which members of a totem are bound by
strong social ties, and are entitled to look for assistance and
hospitality from each other on all occasions. If this assistance
is withheld, the offender may be liable to a certain amount of
social ostracism. The punishment for a break of totem rule,
such as killing a totem, recoils on the person's own head, or
even the whole clan may suffer for the fault of one member.
" I suppose the one feature that appeals most strongly to
almost every traveller in the West is the long clan house,
chiefly, I think, owing to its great size. The long-house
is a form of communal dwelling in which a whole clan or,
in cases where there is only one house in a village, a whole
series of clans lives under one roof. In such case as Oromo-
sapua, on Kiwai or Kowabu on the mainland and numerous
other instances where there is but one house, each clan has
its own special section in it. On Kiwai, where, as a rule, the
villages are large, each totem clan builds and occupies its
own house, and there are or used to be objections to members
344 TOTEMISM IN NTAV GUINEA rk. ill
of other totems eating or sleeping in it. Where, in addition
to the long-house, a Darimu or a number of them (man-
house) is found, it is occupied by the unmarried men and
very often by those who are married, especially on ceremonial
occasions and when a married man should refrain from living
with his wife. It might be mentioned that there is no differ-
ence in appearance or construction between the Darimu and
the ordinary long-house. The Darimu may be used by a
single totem clan, but it is more common to find it in posses-
sion of a group or associated group of them." ^
Further Mr. Beaver has recorded a system of totemism
among the Girara, a tribe of the mainland, who inhabit a
territory between the Fly and the Bamu Rivers. On this
subject he writes as follows : "I am not prepared to offer
any theories as to the racial history of the Girara-speaking
villages, but one thing is certain and that is that their lan-
guage is a Papuan one. The following story of their origin
was told me at Barimo by the people themselves. At a spot
not far from Gaima (this was pointed out to me, when we
came back there) a very long time ago a man married a dog.
The offspring of this match consisted of three sons, the two
elder of whom were the ancestors of Daumori and Pagona
(villages on the Fly) and settled in these places. The youngest
son quarrelled with his brothers and went inland. He saw
that the country was good and decided to settle there, and it
was he who became the ancestor of the Girara-speaking
villages. . . . As far as the Girara are concerned, however, I
have not found that the Dog forms any of their totems. I
was told that these were first allotted by a person named
Ibare and are five in number—the Pig (Itira), the Pigeon
(Boboa—I think this is the Goura pigeon), the Crocodile
(Dupa), the Cassowary (Goragora) and the Snake (Amura).
This seems to me to be a small number for such a large
number of people, and very probably I have not been told
the full list, or it is quite possible that these five form principal
groups. The totems descend through the father, and the
customs do not differ materially from those of the other
Western tribes. A man must not marry in his totem nor
is he allowed to kill or eat his totem. People of the same
^ W. N. Beaver, Unexplored New Guinea (London, 1920), pp. 180 sqq.
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA) 345
cognisance, though belonging to different villages, are
always treated as friends and brothers. There appears to
be some objection to a man allowing his totem animal to
be killed in his presence. As we were travelling through a
belt of scrub, a large cassowary stalked across the track.
The native sergeant at once threw forward his carbine (he
was a Parama Sting-Ray man) ; but one of the guides
sprang in and knocked up the weapon, crying that the casso-
wary was his '
father.' " ^
Further, a system of totemism has been discovered and
described by Mr. F. E. Williams, Government Anthropologist
to the Territory of Papua, among the Keraki and kindred
tribes, Gambadi and Semariji, who inhabit the Morehead
district near the western boundary of British New Guinea
or Papua. Between 1926 and 1932 Mr. Williams spent
altogether ten months in the district, the natural features of
which he paints in colours which are not alluring. He says :
" The country itself is one of strange extremes and few
attractions. Its climate is by turns very pleasant and super-
latively unpleasant. Its scenery often has a mild, almost
dainty attractiveness in detail, but represents on the whole
the extreme of monotony. It supports only a poor and
scattered population, and from the European's point of view
its economic prospects would seem to be practically nil. In
fine, regarding at least that portion which is known as the
Morehead District, one feels inclined to applaud the opinion
of one of the earlier magistrates :
'
There is nothing to induce
settleinent nor would I ever advise any one to go there.' " ^
The Morehead district is defined by Mr. Williams as
lying south of the low divide and between the Bensbach
River on the west and the latitude of the Mai Kussa on the
east. The Morehead River runs through the centre of it.
Of the tribes inhabiting the district Mr. \\^illiams devoted
his attention chiefly to the Keraki.
With regard to the totemic system of the tribes who
inhabit the region, Mr. Williams tells us that " a great
number of natural species in the Morehead district are
thought to have special relations with the various groups of
^ W. N. Beaver, op. cit. pp. 201 sq.
^ F. E. Williams, Papua/is of the Trans-Fly (Oxford, 1936), p. i.
346 TOTEMISM IN NFAV CUINEA hk. iii
its human inhabitants, and without being able to dcfuK; these
relations in any set manner, I propose to refer to the species
in question as totems. Their incidence, or their appropria-
tion to the various social groups, reveals some confusion, and
is at many points inconsistent with the division of the popula-
tion into the Bangu and Sangara moieties. Furthermore,
their social functions are of relatively small consequence.
Many of them appear indeed to play a very insignificant part
in the lives and thought of the present-day native, and it is
no exaggeration to say that those of minor importance are
frequently forgotten altogether. Any individual informant
finds it difficult to enumerate his toteins off-hand ; and the
ethnographer's attempts at verification by appeal to in-
dependent witnesses may disclose not only a lack of know-
ledge on the native's part, but serious inconsistencies in
different versions. ... It is only, in fact, from a group of
informants who can jog one another's memories, and thrash
out disputed points together, that one can expect anything like
a complete or reliable list. Altogether, in view% firstly, of the
inconsistencies between the totemic system and the present-
day inoiety organization, and secondly, of the social unim-
portance of the totems and the all-too-common uncertainty
or ignorance regarding them, we are, I think, at liberty to
infer an advanced degree of disorganisation and decadence.
" The main outlines of the totemic system are common
to the whole Morehead district, i.e. to the Keraki, Gambadi,
and Semarji peoples ; but what information I have been
able to gather relates mainly to the Keraki. Here the totem
is inost generally referred to as yuvi—' untouchable '
or
'
forbidden.' It cannot be claimed that this w^ord is synonym-
ous with '
totem,' for it is obviously of wider range ;
but
having been driven to the conclusion that no special terin for
'
totem '
existed in the native language, I nevertheless found
that the question, '
What are yonv ynivi ? '
would ahvays elicit
the same sort of answer, viz. a list of natural species w^hich
the particular group recognised as its own and yet regarded
as in some manner forbidden. These yuvi species are also
referred to as kaki, '
ancestors,' though there seems to be a
total absence of any idea, either in mythology or in present-day
thought, that the creatures or plants in question are really
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA) 347
ancestors of the groups which acknowledge them. A third
term, tiiarar, is distinguished in use from kaki, and although
the distinction is not maintained with anything like exactitude
it becomes evident that the two words stand for two separate
categories, i.e. the species known as kaki are not tziarar, and
vice versa. We may go on to consider the first sort of totems,
viz, those which the native calls his ynivi or, rather less often,
his kaki. . . .
" Throughout the whole district these totems may be
classified under the following heads :
—
1. Birds {a) Hawks
{b) Miscellaneous
2. Aquatic creatures
3. Lizards and snakes
4. Trees and plants " ^
" The principal totems throughout are the hawks. Now,
the Morehead district, with its numerous wide swamps, has a
rich avifauna, and the predatory birds are correspondingly
numerous. I have often watched the hawk perched on the
bough of a dead tree and surveying the flat expanses with a
sort of malignant quiet, and I have often admired him in his
splendid flight ; but my feelings of interest or admiration
were not obviously shared by those who held him as a totem.
The native has a good eye for birds, and is always ready to
point one out to the less observant European ; but he does so
in the hope that the bird will be brought down by the Euro-
pean's gun, and I have been asked to shoot a whitefish-hawk
by its Sangara totemites, to whom the exultation that would
follow a successful shot meant more than any consideration
they might have for the bird. It is hardly necessary to say
that under ordinary conditions the hawks are almost entirely
beyond the power of the native's arrow. It is glibly said
that the Bangu men will not eat the hawk tvana, and that
Sangara men will not eat inifiak. They are rules that can be
kept without difficulty, for it is hard to imagine when a native
would get a chance of eating either. The hawks are, in fact,
not to be considered as possessing any practical value. The
only relation that they bear to economic needs is an indirect
^ Y. E, Williams, op. cit. pp. 85 sq.
348 TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA p.k. ill
one : in some connections they are said to typify the success-
ful hunter, who can see everything and strike infallibly.
" Among the class of miscellaneous birds some are more
easily approachable and worth the killing, such as the scrub
hen (udagd) and the black cockatoo {toguia), the latter being
not only a good eating bird but supplying in his crest and
beak a fine ornament. But, on the whole, the birds, although
so numerous in many parts of the district, are again of little
economic value to its inhabitants. As food they are hardly
worth considering, while their feathers—the most effective
material for self-decoration which the Papuan native possesses
—are not greatly in evidence in the Morehead district for the
sole reason, of course, that they are so seldom caught or
killed.
" The aquatic creatures are all edible, though the
primitive forms of fishing practised in the streams and lagoons
by the Keraki bush-men and their neighbours are somewhat
ineffectual, and do not constitute an important phase of the
food-quest. Of still smaller value are the lizards and snakes
mentioned as totems.
" Among the botanic totems there is one of real import-
ance, viz. the karose or ti-tree, the bark of which provides the
indispensable material for thatching, and is adapted to many
minor purposes. A number of other useful trees are found
in the list ; four of them for instance bear edible fruits ;
one has leaves useful for cigarette making ; and one is a
wild edible tuber. But for some others I have not been able
to discover any value at all. In fine, we may safely reassert
as a generalization that with certain exceptions the natural
species which are held as totems in the Morehead district
possess relatively small economic value and exercise but little
material influence upon the lives of its inhabitants.
" Their influence on social regulations and on the magico-
religious life is in many cases hardly more significant. Here,
however, we encounter considerable variation : while many
of the totems remain quite insignificant, some few are found
to have important religious and mythical associations, and
yet others are the centres of magical rites. (It should be
remarked in passing that some of the creatures which play
leading parts in Morehead mythology are never referred to
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA) 349
as yuvi, kaki, or tiiarar, so that mythical associations do
not in themselves suffice to turn a natural species into a
totem.)
" Generally speaking we find that the totemic species is
allocated to some social group. . . . Again, it is commonly
referred to as yuvi or forbidden, and the members of the
group refuse to eat it. Lastly, it may be spoken of as kaki^
or ancestor. In view of these considerations, it seems per-
missible to use the expression '
totem.' The child always
takes the totems of its father.
" We may first briefly consider the hawks, which alone
find a wide and more or less consistent distribution as totems
for the two moieties. The two principal species which are
commonly acknowledged by Bangu and Sangara respectively
are wana and hiifiak. The former is the large brown kite
with white breast, which hunts for snakes and bandicoots ;
the latter is a smaller white-headed hawk.
" We have already observed that these birds are nominally
forbidden as food, though the prohibition can never cause
any serious prohibition to the totemites. The results of a
hypothetical breach were pictured for me in imagination :
the man who killed or ate his hawk would shut his eyes and
stagger, and then (the thought of the bird's talons being in
my informant's mind) would scratch himself with clawed
fingers. The sanction is thus clearly envisaged as automatic,
and the notion of punishment is effected by a sort of meta-
phorical association, as when the crocodile totemite for in-
stance conjures up the picture of a roughened, horny skin as
the automatic penalty for eating crocodile.
" These more dire results of eating the totem are re-
stricted to the totemites, but it is interesting to note that the
prohibition may be extended in a milder degree to both
moieties. At Tonda, for instance, I recorded an allegedly
historical incident in which a Bangu man named Bitu
offended the Sangara people of his village by killing and
eating their totem, the hawk inifiak. By way of requital, the
story says, a Sangara man named Tabaru thereupon killed
the Bangu hawk wana and called on his fellows to eat it. In
this somewhat improbable story we see an example of the
mutual regard for one another's totems which, appearing to
350 TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA bk. ill
be somewhat unusual in the case of the hawks, is frequently
met with in the case of other totemic species.
" Without ever having been able to test sincerity by actual
observation I have been assured that a Sangara man would
grieve over the death of an inifiak. If he chanced upon the
bird lying dead he would wrap it carefully in bark and place
it in the branches of a tree. . . .
" When the hunter brought down a wallaby he might
exclaim, wana ! or inifiak ! according as he was Bangu or
Sangara ; and when the raider had killed his man and was
about to behead him he would, I am told, utter shrill cries of
triumph in the same spirit : if Bangu he would call '
Sika-
kakaka . . !
'
in imitation of the ivana or sikaka ;
if
Sangara, '
Gangangangan . . . !
'
in imitation of the inifiak
or ganagan.
" The more obvious purpose here, and the only one which
suggests itself to the native, is that of advertising the killer's
success : his fellow totemites, rushing to the scene, would
join in his cry and feel the pleasure of reflected glory. But
there is, perhaps, a more deep-seated motive. While the
native apparently does not in the moment of triumph directly
ascribe his success to inifiak, there is evident, in some con-
nections at any rate, a feeling that the hawk can really
exercise an influence in the hunter's favour. I shall record
presently what I know of the ritual of the hawk-stone shrine
at Kuramangu, and it will appear that it is at least in part a
hunting rite. How far the influence of inifiak is felt to ex-
tend is indeed uncertain. I have no doubt as to the authen-
ticity of the procedure, since I have been privileged to see
the highly secret hawk-stone, inifiak, and a mock performance
of the ceremony on the actual site. But it seems plain that
this is no more than a local ritual, being one of the kind
associated with the tuarar, which we shall have to consider
separately. It may be that the totem inifiak is regarded
throughout the Morehead district as having some influence
on hunting, but its special cult belongs to the Keraki Proper,
and its only shrine, as far as I could discover, is at Kura-
mangu. I know of no parallel ritual nor of any shrine for the
Bangu hawk, zvana.
" When we come to consider more generally the rather
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA) 351
lengthy list of remaining totems we find the same sort of rules
observed with greater or less degree of strictness. They are
said to be yuvi, and those of an edible nature are not to be
eaten by the people to whom they belong, because, as it has
been explained, this would mean that they are eating their
budar, '
friends '
or '
kinsmen.' Bangu men of the Kaunje
tribe, for instance, who call the crocodile their kakz or ancestor,
will not eat it (and for the exception to prove the rule they
ascribe the recent death of one of their number to a breach of
this law). But they have no hesitation in killing this hated
creature when they get the chance to do so, and then they
are content to absent themselves while the Sangara people
cook and eat it.
" In some cases, while the particular totem is predomi-
nantly either Bangu or Sangara, it is found that both sections
in a given district refuse to eat it. From among many ex-
amples I may cite those of the tuvibabivr (eel) and udaga
(scrub hen) among the Keraki Proper. Both are associated
with the Bangu moiety, but the former in particular and the
latter in a somewhat lesser degree are regarded as sacred by
Sangara as well as Bangu ; and, although they are highly
valued as food, no man or woman of the Keraki Proper would
eat them. When they are caught and killed they are eaten
by those among the wives who happen to have come from
distant parts and are thus exempt from the prohibition.
" As for help or favour derived from the totem, I have
discovered hardly any evidence for such a conception. And
furthermore it must be said that there is little trace of any
real reverence or special regard. Indeed it would appear
that, in the absence of such beliefs and sentiments, the
majority of totems are virtually no more than symbols or
badges, and half forgotten at that, of the groups that own
them.
" There are, however, some few cases, such as those of the
above-mentioned eel and scrub hen, where the totem is really
sacred and may be made the object of some ritual. . . . We
may note here that a certain creek called Tarekor, which leads
into the W^assi Kussa, is regarded as one of the sacred places
of this creature, the eel. Until recently there was to be seen
here the half-submerged trwnk of the chevevi tree which had
352 TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA bk. hi
been the dwelling-place of twnbabzv'r at Boigu, and which,
together with the eel itself, had been borne up the Wassi
Kussa in the original flood. Nowadays after fishing in the
Tarekor creek it is customary to lower one fish, attached to
a length of cane, into the water and leave it there. But my
informants did not say that this was an offering to tuj>ibabzv'r,
as one might rather have hoped. All that they could say
was that it was an old custom. . . . Perhaps, however, we
shall be justified in seeing in this the remnant of a rite of
placating the totem." ^
With regard to the marriage system of the people, Mr.
Williams tells us that the favourite marriage is with the
classificatory cross-cousin (mother's brother's daughter or
father's sister's daughter). Of the forty-six marriages ex-
amined in this respect, 44 per cent were of this nature.
There were solitary cases of marriage with classificatory
junior sister and classificatory daughter. In the remaining
cases, amounting to 32 per cent, the husband was unable
to say in what relation his bride had stood to him. Marriage
with the true cross-cousin is, according to informants, in no
way condemned, though it occurs rarely.^
In that part of Northern New Guinea which formerly
belonged to Germany, Mr. Gregory Bateson found a social
system which he regards as totemism in the latmul people
on the Sepik River. Among these people a perfect village
is divided longitudinally by the big dancing ground on
which the ceremonial houses stand. On one side of this are
the houses of one patrilineal moiety, with those of the other
moiety opposite. On the upper river the two moieties are
called " mother people " and " sun people." These names
refer to important totemic emblems, the vulva and the sun
respectively. In Palimbei the mother vei'sus sun division is
the basis of organisation of initiation ceremonies. The men
of the sun moiety scarify and initiate the boys of the mother
moiety and vice versa In Mindimbit, Tambunum, and
neighbouring villages, where the totemic moieties are less
important, there is a distinct patrilineal division which is
concerned with initiation. These two moieties do not co-
incide with the totemic divisions, and have no totemic
^ F. E. Williams, op. cit. pp. 85 sqq. * ^ F. E. Williams, op. cit. p. 12S.
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA) 353
significance. In Mindimbit neither of the systems of dual
division controls marriage in a simple way. There is a
definite preference for clan exogamy.^
To return to local organisation, the moieties (sun and
mother) are further subdivided into a large number of
totemic groups, membership of which (as also of the moieties)
is determined by patrilineal descent. Where circumstances
permit, this subdivision is brought out in the arrangement
of houses. So that we have the village divided longitudinally
into two moieties, and each of these divided transversely into
patches of ground apportioned to each totemic group.
Marriage is patrilocal as a rule, the wife going to live in the
husband's totemic group.
The smallest local group is the household—those relatives
who live together in one house—-a man, his wives, and their
children, and it is usual to find two or three of these groups
living together in one big house. Most generally we find
two own—or close classificatory—brothers living together
—
each with his wives and children ; one family at each end
of the house, but with no partition between them.
Among the latmul two men inay be connected according
to no less than six different methods of reckoning which
frequently conflict.
(«) Kinship by genealogy. By his genealogy at birth a
man is provided with a series of relatives and also potential
wives. According to this system of reckoning a man's
possible wives are the women of his father's mother's clan.
ib) Kinship by marriage. The exchange of sisters in
marriage is common.
(c) Kinship by Tavibinien, an ambiguous term. Tavi-
binien are partners, and their children ought to inarry, with
brother-sister exchange. The mother's brother is in a very
real sense a male mother.
{(T) The latmul have a very marked sentimental feeling,
not only for their mother, but also for the mother's brother,
and indeed for the whole of the mother's clan, including its
totems.
{e) Reckoning by clans and moieties.
^ Gregory Bateson, " Social Struc- River," in Oceania, vol. ii. No. 3
ture of the latmul People of the Sepik (March 1932), pp. 256 sqq.
2 A
354 TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA BK. ill
A man is called by the same totemic name as his father's
father (real or classificatory), and a woman by the name of
her father's father's sister.^
A child is obliged to inhale the smoke of totemic ginger
in order that he may learn the difficult lists of totemic names.
A celebration is held after a successful raid when young
men have killed for the first time, and in this celebration
the mother's brother plays a curious part, in connection
with his sister's son, who has killed an enemy for the first
time. The killers are bathed in the river. After bathing,
the young man's mother's brother is naked and tied down
on a sort of stretcher. The father of the young man puts into
his hand an adze. Meanwhile a number of men raise the
stretcher, swinging it violently and singing songs, in which
they call out the names of the mother's brother's clan.
After this the young man is placed on the belly of his re-
cumbent mother's brother, cuts his bonds with the adze,
and presents the adze to him. His uncle then sits up on the
stretcher and raises himself, using the adze as support.
Another incident of the same celebration is as follows :
The mother's brother of the young man will kill a fowl and
prepare the feathers as a headdress. This is given to the
father's sisters dressed and ornamented as men. Then the
mother's brother's wives dressed as men lie down on the
ground. The father's sisters go stepping across them carrying
the feathers. The mother's brother's wives snatch the feathers
and run off with them. The ceremony ends with a dance of
the women at night, wearing masculine ornaments.^
In the tribe polygamy is allowed, and a man may have
as many as ten wives.
Certain plants, animals, etc., belong to various clans,
and are identified with the ngwail or ancestor of the clan to
which they belong. Thus the system appears to be closely
allied to totemism, each clan having dozens or even hundreds
of ngwail (totemic ancestors). For example, the Mwai-
lambu ngavva clan belonging to the mother moiety includes
among its totems shamanic spirits, pigs, houses, ceremonial
houses, ancestral heroes, canoes, land north of Sepik River,
masked figures, fire, water, ginger, turmeric, many plants,
^ G. Bateson, op. at. pp. 267 sqq. - G. Bateson, op. fit. pp. 276 sgq.
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA 355
animals and birds, pots, brooms, bamboo hoe, and so forth.
^
There is a difference between the totems of the moieties.
Thus the clans of the Sun moiety tend to have suns and stars
and clouds for their ancestors and to place their ancestral
pigs, canoes, and so on, in the sky. The clans of the mother
moiety, on the other hand, connect their ancestors with the
earth. Some clans say that they have totems connected with
the bush, while others are specially connected with the river.
The most important are common to all clans : shamanic
spirits, fire, water, dwelling-houses, ceremonial houses,
crocodiles, ginger, masks, eagles, and many other important
categories.
Collectively the objects and ancestors of the clan are
spoken of as nyai'' ngwail (the fathers and fathers' fathers).
This combination fits clearly with the division of the clans
into lines, whereby all ancestors are either fathers or father's
fathers.
A man takes his father's names and applies them to his
own sons. Similarly he takes his father's sister's names and
applies them to his daughters ... As a man grows older
and his son's sons appear, his totemic clan names are one by
one taken away from him and given to his grandsons, while
he is still alive. Finally, he is only left with the names given
to him by his mother's brother. With these names he is said
to go to the land of the dead.^
The Mwailambu clan keeps somewhere in one of its
houses, somewhere behind its pots, or hung up high in the
roof, a plaited basket, carefully sewn up, in which arc the
precious relics of its totemic ancestors. The Kwosamba clan
possessed a similar small hoard. The relics are produced on
special occasions for a ceremony called pzvivu, the eating of
the relics.
The pzvivu basket of the Mwailambu contained three
human bones and a variety of other articles. Another clan
pzvivu was said to be the tooth of a totemic pig.
At 'A.pzvivu for a little girl who had caught a fish, scrapings
from the three bones and the club, and so on, were mixed
^ G. Bateson, "Social Structure 1932), p. 401.
of the latmul People of Sepik River," - G. Bateson, op. cit. p]). 409 sq.
Part iii., Oceania, vol. ii. No. 4 (June
356 TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA bk. ill
with the milk and flesh of two coconuts, and spells were
pronounced over the mixture, which was eaten by the young
people of the village, who came up and ate it direct, dipping
their heads down into the bowl. After two adults had tasted,
a crowd of children of the village ate. Any children, especially
unmarried girls, w^ere encouraged to eat of it, regardless of
clan.
After eating, small scars were cut in the forearm of the
children, and they had to observe certain food taboos. For
five days they w^ere forbidden water and washing. They
drank coconut milk. After this initial period certain taboos
continued, and they might not eat fish, especially big fish.
These taboos lasted till the next planting of turmeric. In
another case the mixture contained small fish, which had to
be swallowed whole, in imitation of the egret, but Mr.
Bateson did not know whether the egret was a specially
important totem of this clan.^
Generally speaking it may be said that all latmul
ceremonial involves the chanting of names, and the exhibition
of representations of totems.
Many representations of totems are not used in any ritual
but are merely standing visible as carvings. In most cases the
totemic representation is the centre of ritual performances,
at least when it is set up.
Certain totemic representations are specially exhibited by
the sister's children of the totem's clan. For example, masks
are worn by the sister's children, flutes are blown by the
sister's children, and certain objects are exhibited by the
sister's children during mortuary ceremonies for the dead of
the mother's clan whose totem they represent.^
There is no serious scruple against killing and eating the
totem. The only plant with which a man may decorate
himself is that of his mother's totem. Though the structure
of the institutions is patrilineal, a man's first duty is towards
his mother's totem.
In discussing the question w^hether the social system of
the latmul is totemism or not, Mr. Bateson tells us that the
system lacks some of the marks which are usually associated
with totems. First, it is not clear that any of the latmul
'
G. Bateson, op. cit. p. 429. ^ G. Bateson, op. cit. p. 430.
CH. I BRITISH NEW GUINEA {PAPUA) 357
ngwail are species. Certainly the most important arc in-
dividual spirits, while the less important are, in many cases,
primarily individuals whose names are loosely extended to
apply to any other individuals of the same species. Further,
there is no taboo on eating the ngwail: there are no ceremonies
to increase or multiply the ngwail : there is no belief in the
rebirth of totemic ancestors, nor in the reappearance of
ancestors in totemic form in dreams.^ On the whole, then,
we may say that if the system described by Mr. Bateson is to
be called totemism, it is an irregular or anomalous form of
the institution.
^ G. Bateson, op. cit. pp. 444 sqq.
CHAPTER II
TOTEMISM IN DUTCH NEW GUINEA
Dutch New Guinea comprises, roughly speaking, the
western half of the great island. The south-eastern corner
of the territory, bounded by the sea on the south, and by
Papua or British New Guinea on the east, is occupied by the
Marind, or Marind-Anim tribe, possessing a complex totemic
system which has been examined and described by a Swiss
ethnologist, Dr. P. Wirz.^ Brief summaries of his descrip-
tion of the system have been published by Dr. A. C. Haddon
and Professor Landtman.^
The whole tribe of the Marind are divided into two
principal groups, Geb-ze and the Sami-rek. These two groups
are quite independent and unconnected, though the members
of each group claim to be closely related to each other.
While the Geb-ze group forms a complete unity in itself, the
Sami-rek is divided into a number of exogamous sub-groups,
or sub-groups which may be called totemic societies. These
totemic societies are further subdivided into what may be
called totemic unions. The Geb-ze are similarly divided into
a number of totemic unions. Thus they distinguish, for
example, the coconut union, the banana union, and so on.
The connection of these totemic unions with the totemic
societies of which they are subdivisions is of different kinds :
but it is founded upon some mythical or legendary relation-
ship or on totemic friendship or totemic relationship. Thus,
for example, all coastal animals and coastal plants are related
^ Dr. P. Wirz, Die Marmd-anim ^ G. Landtman, op. cit. pp. xv,
von Holldndisch - Sud - Neu - Guinea 190 sq.
(Hamburg. 1922).
358
CH. II TOTEMISM IN DUTCH NEW GUINEA 359
to each other and belong to the coast totemic union. To
these totemic unions belong the personified forces, the
ancestors i^Devia) and originators of these objects, and further
the clans, which stand in close relation to these ancestors
and their totemic descendants.
The totemic union is also a complete unit of the social
structure, with strict exogamy and patriarchal descent. A
totemic union sometimes includes several clans, which may
be connected with each other only in some mythical or totemic
way, that is, may have the same totemic relations and the
same principal totem, which regularly gives its name to the
whole totemic union.
The clans finally are divided into single faniilies, which
take their name either from a male ancestor, or from a settle-
ment which has once been inhabited by their mythical
ancestor.
The present structure of the Marind tribe has been brought
about by migrations and blendings, which have been spread
over a long period. The settlement in any case originally
consisted in original groups or families, and we must suppose
that the original settlements consisted of clans only. The
clan organisation forms the foundation of the tribal structure.
The clans are named after early ancestors and immigrants,
the Denta, or, if the settlement was completed by a single
group, after a canoe in which the Denia ancestors have immi-
grated, or finally after a place which was originally settled
or has been for a long time inhabited.
Besides the wanderings of the ancestors {Dema), in the
course of time many extraordinary incidents or experiences
have furnished materials for myths, such as, for example, the
discovery of certain plants, hunting adventures, feasts, and
the like, which form the foundation of the clan myths and
the totemic relationships. As the myths relate, the ancestors
and early immigrants are regarded as extraordinary beings
and the originators of certain objects, and have qualified as
Dema. The descendants oi Devia, that is the clan itself, have
thus entered into a specially close connection with the corre-
sponding totemic object.
The wife of Wokabu (a De^na), so a myth tells us, pro-
duced or gave birth to the sago, or rather the sago Dema
36o TOTEMISM IN NEW GUINEA bk. ill
(it is thought of as a piece of sago endowed with special power)
.
Hence all the descendants of Wokabu are related to the sago,
and belong to the sago totemic union {Boan). The sago itself
is called Amai, which means ancestors, as also is Wokabu.
Other objects, which in some way or other are mythically
connected with sago or with Wokabu, are also spoken of as
Amai. These stand with other words in close mythical and
totemic connection with the clan : to these belong, for ex-
ample, all parts of the sago palm, all the products of the sago
palm, the implements for preparing sago, and animals which
feed principally upon the sago or live close to the sago palms.
It is quite possible that such myths as that of the origin
of sago and the connection of the sago with Wokabu are
founded upon a true tradition, namely that Wokabu as one
of the first immigrants came into possession of many sago
trees and planted them out, for sago is nowhere extensively
found on the coastal region of British New Guinea, and there
the chief source of food is not sago but yams and taro. This
was probably also the case with the early Marind, when they
still inhabited the eastern coastal region.
The totemic outlook of the Marind thus arises directly
from the myths of the Dema (ancestors), and from the belief
in their supernatural powers and abilities, as a consequence
of which they could transform themselves into and produce
different objects of Nature and are regarded as the originators
of the whole universe. They also begat human offspring,
which by successive generations shed their extraordinary
powers and became ordinary human beings. Men, animals,
plants and other objects, which go back to the same ancestor
{Demd), are thus blood relations to one another. The Marind
say in such cases that these beings are their Amai (forefathers,
or early ancestors).
The totemic relationship thus flows directly from the be-
lief in the Dema ancestors. The object into which the Dema
(ancestral being) can transform himself, or which he has
produced, generally becomes the clan symbol or the chief
totem, after which the whole clan is named. A group named
after a chief totem is called by the Marind a Boan. This
includes one or more clans : with all the mythical totemic
objects of the Boan the clan stands in close connection. For
CH. II TOTEMISM IN DUTCH NEW GUINEA 361
example, the Mahu-ze clan belongs to the dog Boan, for
Mahu, according to the myth, was the originator of the dog.
On the other hand, all dogs belong to the Mahu-ze clan, since
they originate from Mahu, and everything which is connected
with the dog, and all objects which are mentioned in the
myth of Mahu, belong also to the Mahu-ze clan.^
There exist certain food taboos. These do not include all
totem animals, but according to the Marind are concerned
mainly with birds, but even in these cases they are not very
strict. For example, they would never apply these restrictions
to a cassowary or a species of pigeon or a large duck ; but
with an expression of regret to their ancestors would devour
them without scruple.
The Marind thus stands, by means of his Dema (fore-
fathers) and the myths, in a certain totemic relation with all
existing things. This is so extensive that an enumeration of
all totemically connected objects is quite impossible. It may
even include certain activities such as sleeping and marrying
as totemic activities of certain clans or clan unions, as when
for example a clan has the tradition of its Dema (ancestor)
that he slept a great deal or led a loose life. Certain character-
istics may also be regarded as distinctive totemic marks, such
as bald-headedness or ringworm, if the myth relates that these
marks originated with the Dema or that they go back to the
time of the Dema.
Generally the clan members stand in close relation with
everything that is mentioned in the myths of their forefathers.
Thus the idea of totemism can only be applied with certain
reservations to the Marind. It is not always possible to speak
of totemic relationship. Often a clan connection depends
only upon certain events, wanderings, and adventures of the
ancestors {Dema).^
As we have seen, the Geb-ze, one of the two principal
divisions of the Marind, includes several totemic unions.
Among these are the coconut and the banana Boan. The
coconut Boan includes the clan of the coconut with the un-
divided blossoms, and the clan of the ordinary coconut. The
banana totemic union {Boan) includes among others the clan
1 P. Wirz, op. cit. Bd. I. Part ii. pp. 28 sqq.
* P. Wirz, op. cit. I. ii. pp. 33 sqq.
362 TOTEMISM IN NTIV GUINEA hk. ill
of the pearl mussel. A third totemic union is that of the
fan-palm, which stands in a close mythical connection with
the coconut Boan. The first coconut is said to have sprung
miraculously from the grave of a man who had been mur-
dered by magic. It bore fruit the same day, or according to
another version, a whole grove of palm trees sprang from the
grave the same day. Coconuts had been unknown before,
and the people now flocked to gather and enjoy the newly
discovered fruit.
^
The Sami-rek, the second great group of the Marind, is
subdivided, as we have seen, into four sub-groups. The first
of these sub-groups includes the cassowary or fire, kangaroo,
and stork totemic unions (^Boan). To these Boan belong a
number of clans which possess special mythical and totemic
connections. Such are the smoke clan, the special fire clan,
the special cassowary clan, the rattan clan, which all belong
to the cassowary or fire Boan in a wider sense. The stork
Boan, which in its entirety is also called the bird society,
includes two clans, that of the giant stork (^Xenorhynchus
asiaticus) and a sub-species of the same. The second sub-
group of the Sami-rek includes the areca, crocodile, the sea,
fish, and birds of prey. The third sub-group of the Sami-rek
is that of the sago, with the dominating sago Boan, which is
divided into the clans of the dog and the shad. The fourth
sub-group of the Sami-rek is named after a special mythical
object, the rainbow. To it belongs only one Boan, that of
pigs.2
Among the Marind the marriage regulations are such
that husband and wife must always belong to different totemic
societies.^ The system of relationship is classificatory : all
male contemporaries in the same totemic union are called
brothers, all brothers of the father are called fathers, and all
sisters of the mother are called mothers, and even the
sisters-in-law of the mother are addressed as mothers.'*
^ P. Wirz, op. cit. I. ii. pp. 69 sq. ^ P. Wirz, op. cit. I. i. p. 68.
- P. Wirz, op. cit. I. ii. pp. 37 sq. * P. Wirz, op. cit. I. i. p. 75.
BOOK IV
TOTEMISM IN INDIA
CHAPTER I
TOTEMISM IN CHOTA NAGPUR
§ I. Toteniisni of the Birho7-s
Elsewhere I have shown that the institutions of totemisni
and exogamy are found to hnger among some of the back-
ward indigenous tribes of India, who in their fastnesses of
the forest or the mountain have been able to retain their
primitive cuhure, Httle affected by contact with invading
races. ^ Here I will adduce some fresh evidence of such
survivals.
Thus the Birhors, a primitive Dravidian tribe of Chota
Nagpur, are divided into a number of totemic and exogamous
clans called gotras, mostly named after some animal, plant,
fruit, flower, or other material object. Of their totemism
Mr. Sarat Chandra Roy tells us that " the Birhors appear to
have preserved or developed a few interesting features in
their totemism which I have not yet met w^th among any
other totemic tribe in Chota Nagpur, and which, as far as I
know, have not been recorded of any other tribe in India.
" It is interesting to note that the few families that compose
a Birhor tanda or food-group do not all belong to the same
clan or kinship-group. Chance, or, more often, marital con-
nections, would appear to have originally brought together in
a tanda families belonging to different clans. And through
long association in the food-quest, families of different clans
composing any particular tanda appear to have attained a
comparatively greater cohesion than different families of
one and the same clan belonging to different taiidas. But
^ Tote mis m and Exogaffiy, i i . 2 1 S -
3 2 7
.
365
366 TOTEMISM IN INDIA bk. iv
even this cohesion is seldom so strong as to prevent any
family from leaving its old tanda and joining a new one when
it feels inclined to so so." ^
The totem clans among the Birhors, so far as Mr. Sarat
Chandra Roy could ascertain them, are :
—
1. Audi (wild cat).
2. Bonga Sauri (a kind of wild grass).
3. Bhat (name of a Hindu caste).
4. Bhont or Bhuntil (a kite).
5. Bhuiya (name of a tribe).
6. Chauli Hembrom {chauli =nc^ ; Henibrom — h&\.€i palm)
7. Ganda Garua (a large species of vulture).
8. Geroa (a small bird).
9. Gidhi (vulture).
10. Goar (milkman caste).
1 1. Guleria or Galaoria (pellet-bow).
12. Gundri (a kind of bird).
13. Hembrom (betel palm).
14. Here Hembrom {here=^\\c& husk).
15. Induar (eel).
16. Jegseria Latha {latlia — a cake made of mohiia flowers).
17. Kauch or Horo (tortoise).
18. Kawan Hembrom.
19. Keonduar (a kind of fruit).
20. Khangar (name of a sub-tribe of the Mundas).
21. Kharea (name of a tribe).
22. Khudi Hembrom {khudi= broken grains of rice).
23. Ludumba = a kind of flower.
24. Lundi jal ( = Lakur chata).
25. Lupung {t?iyrobalan tree).
26. Maghaia Hembrom {Maghaia = ht\or\gmg to Magha or Bihar).
27. Mahali (name of a tribe).
28. Modi (name of caste or section of a tribe).
29. Murum (nilgai or Portax pictu, a wild deer).
30. Nag (cobra) or Nagpuria (belonging to Chota Nagpur).
31. Sada {white).
32. Samduar (j'«<^tf»2 = horse).
33. Saunria (a kind of wild grass).
34. Sham-jhakoa (a composition used in whetting weapons).
35. Singpuria {singhara fruit or Trapa bisp)nosa).
36. Suia (a kind of bird).
37. Toriar (belonging to Pargana Tori in the Palamau district).
" A few of these names, such as Nagpuria and Toriar,
are derived from names of localities, whereas a few others,
^ S. C. Roy, The Birhors (Ranchi, 1925), pp. 89 sqq.
CH. I TOTEMISM IN CHOTA NAGPUR 367
such as Bhat, Goar, Bhuiya, Khangar, and Mahali, would
appear to be derived from names of other tribes, with some
of whom at any rate there are reasons to beheve there have
been miscegenation in the past."
A Birhor's totem is hereditary, not acquired.
There are no sex or associated totems.
The members of a clan do not wear any badge or dis-
tinguishing emblem or peculiar dress, nor make up their
hair in any distinctive fashion nor get representations of
their totem cut or tattoed on their persons or carved or painted
on their houses or on any personal belongings. But during
sacrifices to the Spirits, known variously as Ora-bongas
(' home gods '), Buru-bongas, (hill gods) or '
Khunt bhuts
'
(clan spirits), some emblem of the family totem is placed by
the side of the sacrifice, and this emblem is always carried
about with it wherever the family migrates.^
" The few legends that the Birhors tell about the origin
of some of their clans do not point to any belief in the descent
of men from their totems. All that they indicate is that the
totem plant or animal had had some accidental connection
with the birth of the reputed ancestor of the clan. Thus, the
ancestor of the Gidhi (vulture) clan, it is said, was born under
a wide-spreading tree, and, as soon as he was born, the o.^^
of a vulture which had its nest on the overhanging branches
of the tree dropped down on the babe's head from the nest.
Hence the baby and his descendants came to form the Gidhi
(vulture) clan. Similarly the ancestor of the Geroa (small
bird) clan is said to have been born under the wings of a
Geroa bird, and the ancestor of the Lupung clan under the
shade of a lupung tree.
" But although the Birhors of our days do not believe in
the actual descent of a clan from its totem, they appear to
find some resemblance in the temperament or physical appear-
ance of the members of a clan to that of their totem animal
or plant. Thus, it is said, people of the Gidhi (vulture) clan
have usually little hair on the crown of the head, and members
of the Lupung clan are generally short but plump like the
lupung fruit. . . .
" As with other totemic peoples, a Birhor must abstain
^
S. C. Roy, The Birhors (Ranrhi, 1925), p]i. St) sqq.
368 TOTEMISM IN INDIA BK. IV
from killing, destroying, maiming, hunting, injuring, eating,
or otherwise using the animal, plant, or other object that
forms his clan totem, or anything made out of or obtained
from it ;
and, if possible, he will also prevent others from
doing so in his presence. Some of the clans carry the prin-
ciple to curious extremes. Thus, the men of the Murwm,
clan cover their eyes when they chance to come across a
mMrum stag. . . .
" It is worthy of note, however, that all totem taboos
have to be strictly observed only by married men, for it is not
until he is married that a Birhor is considered to become a
full member of his clan. Eating, killing, or destroying one's
clan totem is regarded by the Birhor as equivalent to killing
a human member of his own clan, and the reason usually
assigned by the Birhor for abstaining from or preventing
others from killing or destroying his totem is that if the
totem animal, plant, or other object diminishes, the clan too
will suffer a corresponding decrease in numbers. Although it
is believed that a particular clan will multiply in proportion
as the totem species or class multiplies, no Birhor clan resorts
to any magical process, like the Australian intichiuma cere-
monies, for the multiplication of its totem species or class.
Individuals of the tribe not belonging to a certain totem do
not hold those who do responsible for the ensuring of a supply
of the totemic animal or plant for their benefit, nor are the
former required to obtain the permission of the latter to eat
their totemic animal or plant. Marriage between persons of
the same clan is considered incestuous.
" Descent is reckoned in the male line, and a man has
the same totem as his father. The mother's, or rather the
mother's father's totem, is not respected ;
for, in fact, a
female is not supposed to have any clan ; she is not a recog-
nised member either of her father's or of her husband's clan,
and has not, therefore, to observe the taboos relating to their
totems. She must not, however, kill the totem animal or
destroy the totem plant of her husband's clan, as that would,
in the Birhor's estimation, be equivalent to killing the husband
himself. When a Birhor unwarily happens to eat, kill, or
destroy his totem animal or plant, his clan-fellows impose on
him, according to his means, a fine of either five four-anna
CH. I TOTEMISM IN CHOTA NAGPUR 369
bits or five two-anna bits, or five annas. He is also required
to provide a feast, if not to all the members, at least to one
member of each clan in his settlement or encampment. The
spirits of the dead are not supposed to enter their totem
animals, nor are the spirits of a dead totem supposed to enter
the wombs of the wives of nien of that toteni. A meeting of
the totem animal is not considered, save among the Murums,
to affect one's luck ; nor does a Birhor make obeisance to his
totem animal when he meets it. But should he ever happen
to come across the carcase of his totem beast or bird, he must
anoint its forehead with oil and vermilion, although he has
not actually to mourn for the dead animal or bury it.
" There is another practice connected with Birhor totem-
ism which, even if it may not have an essentially religious
or magico-religious significance, is at any rate intimately
associated with Birhor religion. Every Birhor clan has a
tradition of its ancient settlement having been located in
some hill or other within Chota Nagpur. And once a year
at every Birhor encampment or settlement the men of each
clan assemble on some open space outside their group of
leaf-huts to offer sacrifices to the presiding spirit of their
ancestral hill. This spirit is called Ora-bonga by the migra-
tory Birhors and Buru-bonga, or mountain god, by the com-
paratively settled Birhors. At these sacrifices, in which
members of other clans may not take part, the eldest member
present of the clan officiates as sacrificer. A mystic diagram
with four compartments is drawn on the ground with rice-
flour, and in one of these compartments the sacrificer sits
down with his face turned in the direction of the ancestral
hill of his clan and with some emblem of his totem species
placed in another compartment of the diagram. Thus, men
of the Ludumba clan place a luduviba flower before the
sacrificer ;
those of the Murum (stag) clan place a bit of a
horn or skin of the miiruni ; those of the Kendua clan place
a twig of the Keond tree ; those of the Geroa clan place a
wing of the Geroa bird. , . .
" In the case of bird or beast totems, the skin, horn, claw,
or wing used as an emblem to represent the clan is obtained
by members of the clan, not by killing or destroying the bird
or beast with their own hantls, but through men of some
2 B
370 TOTEMISM IN INDIA bk. iv
other clan to whom they arc not taboo. So intimate and vital
is the connection between the clan and its totem, that the
totem emblem thus used is regarded as representing the clan
as a whole. And the invocation at such a ceremony begins
thus :
'
Behold such-and-such a clan has come to offer sacri-
fices to thee, O spirit of such-and such hill." ^
Although the men of every Birhor clan annually offer
sacrifices to the presiding spirit of their ancestral hill, so
great is their fear of the spirit that no member of a Birhor
clan will, on any account, enter or even go within a distance
of a mile or two of the hill or jungle reputed to be its former
home, unless some family of the clan is still residing there
and regularly propitiating the local spirits. Even when, in
the course of their wanderings, a group of migratory Birhors
happen to come near such hill or jungle, they must turn aside
and take a different route. The reason now assigned for
such avoidance is that the spirits of such a hill or jungle who
have not had any sacrifices offered to them since the men had
left the place might cause them harm for such neglect. . . .
" The situation of these traditional homes of a few of
the clans is believed to have endowed them with specific
magical powers. Thus, the Here Hembrom and Khudi
Hembrom clans are said to have powers over the weather.
It is said that when high wind is approaching, if a man of
either of these clans pours a jug of water on the thhan (spirit-
seat) or in front of the tribal encampment and bids the storm
turn aside, the storm will immediately take a different direc-
tion, and even though it may blow hard on the country all
around, the hill or jungle in which these clans may be en-
camping will remain quite calm and undisturbed. The
reason why the men of these clans are said to be maliks or
masters of the storm, is explained by saying that their Buru-
bongas (mountain gods) or Ora-bongas (home gods) are situate
in the north, which is the home of storms. Members of the
Jegseria Latha clan, whose ancestral home and '
home god '
(Ora-bongd)2ir&{zx\}[\QX north than those of the Here Hembrom
and Khudi Hembrom clans, are credited with the power of
controlling monsoon rains and high winds in the same way.
... It is said that monsoon winds and rains will always
^ S. C. Roy, op. cit. pp. I02 sqq.
CH. I TOTEMISM IN CHOTA NAGPUR 371
abate their force when they approach a settlement of this
clan. Of the Kawan clan—one of the wildest of Birhor clans
—it is said that tigers, on certain occasions, serve them as
friends and servants. When a Kawan woman is about to be
confined, her husband makes for her a separate shed with
leaves and branches, in which she is left alone. As soon as a
baby is born to her, a tiger, it is said, invariably enters the
shed, cleanses the limbs of the baby by licking them, and
opens a back door to the shed for the woman to go out and
come in during her days of ceremonial taboo." ^
" Although all the Birhor clans agree in excluding
females (with the exception of little girls who have not yet
attained puberty) from their spirit-huts {bonga-oras) and in
excluding married daughters and other women not belonging
to the family from their spirit-seats {thhans), and in pro-
hibiting women from eating the heads of animals caught in
the chase or sacrificed to the spirits, different clans observe
different rules about the ceremonial pollution attaching to
females during menstruation or in child-birth. Thus, among
the Maghaia Hembrom clan, as soon as a woman menstruates
a small new door is opened in the wall of the hut for her use
during the next eight days, and she is not allowed to use the
main door of the hut or to touch any food or other thing in
the house or do any work, whereas in most other clans,
although she is not allowed to touch anything in the house,
a new door is not opened for her. In addition to these
restrictions, a menstruous woman of the Kawan clan must
go out of, and enter, the hut through the newly-opened door-
way in a sitting posture—that is to say, on her buttocks and
not on her legs."
In the presence of so many points of difference in custom
between the different clans, it is no wonder that a Birhor
should identify " clan " v^ixSxjat or caste, and that there is as
yet hardly any real tribal sentiment or any cohesion between
the members of the different clans. But, inasmuch as members
of two or three clans generally form one food-group, camping
together in the same tanda or settlement or wandering about
and hunting in the same jungle, there has sprung up a well
recognised connection of some particular clan with certain
1 S. C. Roy, op. cit. \>\). 106 sqq.
372 TOTEMISM IN INDIA bk. iv
other clan or clans. Thus, for instance, the Geroa and
Murum clans are generally found associated together, and
the Saunria clan is usually found associated with the Lud-
umba clan. Although the Birhors assert that these associa-
tions of particular clans have existed from the beginning of
time, there are reasons for supposing that such association
originated from sons-in-law or other near relations by marriage
joining the groups of their fathers-in-law or other relations
on the wife's side.
There is thus hardly any social integration between the
different clans forming the tribe. Even the different families
of the same clan living at a distance from one another do not
recognise the idea of collective responsibility as illustrated,
for instance, by the law of the blood-feud, but only, and that
dimly, the existence of an ultimate relationship. It is only
in the families composing one settlement or encampment,
although generally belonging to more than one clan, that we
meet with a certain amount of social solidarity. Even the
birth-pollution and death-pollution of any family in the local
settlement is shared by all the other families of the settlement
to whatever clan they may belong. Although their ancestral
spirits and home spirits are different, they join in sacrifices
to the same local spirits and the same spirits of the hunt.
Although a few clans, as we have seen, are supposed to
have a magical control over certain departments of Nature,
such power is now said to belong to them not directly on
account of their totem, but on account of the situation of
their traditional homes. There is no specialisation between
the different clans, which are all considered as equal in rank.
" Such are the main features of Birhor totemism so far as
I have hitherto been able to ascertain them. As with most
other Dravidian tribes in Chota Nagpur, the Birhor totemic
clan is exogamous and the system of relationship is classi-
ficatory. The respect which a man owes to his totem prevents
him from killing or eating it. But the respect for the totem
does not appear to have developed into an actual worship of
the totem animal or plant. The Birhor has not come to
regard his totem as a god, but looks upon it more in the light
of a fellow-clansman. Although the Birhor identifies hini-
self and his fellow-clansmen with his totem, he does not, like
CH. I TOTEMISM IN CHOTA NAGPUR 373
certain Central Australian Blacks, occasionally kill and eat
his totem for a more complete physical identification with it.
Nor does a Birhor clan breed or tame its totemic animal.
" One peculiar feature of Birhor totemism that I have
noticed is the belief in the magical power of certain clans
over wind and rain. But the tribe is not at the present day,
at any rate, organised, like the Arunta, as a co-operative
supply association, composed of groups of magicians, each
group charged with the management of particular depart-
ments of Nature.
" The totemism of the Birhors would appear, however, to
have not been without its influence on the growth of their
religion. The most noteworthy feature in Birhor totemism
appears to me to be the belief in the vital connection between
the human clan, their totem, and the hill which is reputed to
have been their original home, or rather the spirit of such
hill." 1
§ 2. Totemism of the Oraons
Another Dravidian tribe of Chota Nagpur who possess a
system of totemism are the Oraons. Their system has already
been described in my earlier work,^ but some fresh light has
been thrown on it by the eminent Indian ethnographer, Mr.
Sarat Chandra Roy, who has made a special study of the
tribe, and has reported the results of his enquiries in two
valuable monographs.^ I will quote what he says on the
subject of Oraon totemism for comparison with my former
account.
" The present social organisation of the Oraons is the
archaic organisation of the ancient Oraon hunting com-
munities adapted to the needs of the more complex agri-
cultural village-communities of later days.
" Totemism, which was the basis of the social and
political organisation of the Oraons in what may be roughly
called the hunting and pastoral stages of Oraon culture, still
forms the fundamental feature of their social organisation in
so far as kinship, marriage, and relations of the sexes are
^ S. C. Roy, op. cit. pp. 119 sqq. ' S. C. Roy, The Oraons of Chota
^ Totemism and Exogamy, ii. 284 Nagpur (Ranchi, 1915) and Oraon
sqq. Religion and Customs (Ranchi, 1928).
374 TOTKMISM IN INDIA bk. iv
concerned. For purposes of exogamy the whole tril^e is to
this (lay divided into a number of clans or gotras. Individual
totems, sex totems, or associated totems are unknown. The
fauna and flora of their past and present habitats naturally
supply the bulk of the totem names. With the acquisition
of a knowledge of agriculture and the use of metals, a few
new totem names have been since added. The existing
Oraon totems so far as known to us may be classified as
follows :
—
(i) Beast Totems
1. Addo (ox). 9. Halman (baboon).
2. Alia (clog). 10. Khoea (wild dog).
3. Bando (wild cat). 11. Kiss or Suar (pig).
4. Barwa (wild dog). 12. Lakra (tiger).
5. Chidra (squirrel). 13. Osga (field rat).
6. Chiglo (jackal). 14. Runda (fox).
7. Ergo (rat). 15. Tig (a species of monkey).
8. Gari (common monkey). 16. Tirki (young mice).
(ii) Bird Totems
1. Bakula (paddy-bird). 7. Khakha (raven).
2. Dhechua (a small black bird 8. Kerketa (hedge-sparrow),
with a long tail). 9. Kokro (cock).
3. Garwa (stork). 10. Orgora (hawk).
4. Cede (duck). 11. Tirkuar (the Tithio charai bird).
5. Gidhi (vulture). 12. Toppo or Lang toppo (a species
6. Girlihi (a species of bird). of long-tailed bird).
(iii) Fish and other Aquatic Totems
1. Aind (a subdivision of the eel). 7. Kinduar (a species of fish).
2. Beah (a large fish with thorns on 8. Kosuar ,, ,,
the back). 9. Kosuwa ,, ,,
3. Ekka (tortoise). 10. Linda (a subdivision of the eel).
4. Godo (crocodile). II. Lita (a species of fish).
5. Ken (a species of fish). 12. Minj ,, ,,
6. Khalkho ,, ,, 13. Sal ,, ,,
14. Tirn (a species offish).
(iv) Reptile Totems
I. Khetta or Nag (Cobra).
(v) Vegetable Totems
1. Bakhla (a species of grass). 5. Kanda (sweet potato).
2. Bara or Bar {Ficus indica). 6. Kaithi (a curry vegetable).
3. Basa (a kind of tree). 7. Kendi (a kind of tree).
4. Gondrari ,, ,, 8. Keond (a kind of fruit).
CH. I TOTEMISM IN CHOTA NAGPUR -375
9. Kheksa (a curry vegetable). 14. Madgi (the rnohua tree).
10. Khes (paddy). 15. Munjniar (a kind of creeper).
11. Kinda (date palm). 16. Pusra (a kind of /^z/j-z/w tree).
12. Kujur (a kind of fruit). 17. Putri (a kind of tree).
13. Kundri (a curry vegetable). 18. Rori (a kind of tree).
19. Augal toppo (a kind of bush).
iV\) Mineral Totems
I. Panna (iron). 2. Bekh (salt).
(vii) Place Totems
I. Bandh (an embanked reservoir 2. Jubbi (a marsh or surface-
of water). spring).
(viii) Split Totems
I. Amri (rice-soup). 2. Kispotta (pig's entrails).
" (In the list given in Sir Herbert Risley's Tribes and
Castes of Bengal a few of the totein names are given twice
over, once in Oraon and again in their Hindi forms. Thus
Lakra and Bagh are given as two different names, and
similar mistakes are made with regard to '
Dhan '
and
'
Khes,' etc.)
" The Oraons retain very few traditions as to the origin
of particular totem names. Such traditions as they have do
not reveal any belief in the descent of inen from their totems.
All that they indicate is that the totemic animal or plant is
believed to have helped or protected the human ancestor of
the clan, or been of some peculiar service to him. Thus, it is
said, that while an Oraon had fallen asleep under a Kujur
plant, a flexible twig of the plant entwined round his body
and protected him from molestation. Accordingly the man
took the Kujur plant for his totem, and his descendants now
form the men of the Kujur clan.
" Some legends, on the other hand, refer the origin of a
few clan names to some help or protection extended by a
inan to some animal or plant. Thus, it is said, that while a
certain Oraon of olden times was about to catch a tortoise,
the latter exclaimed :
'
I am your Jat (caste-fellow).' And
so the man desisted from catching it, and his descendants
came to fonn the Tortoise clan. The origin of the Kis-
potta (pig's entrails) clan is stated to be as follows. An
Oraon killed a pig and ate its flesh, but threw away its
376 TOTEMISM IN INDIA bk. IV
entrails. The life of the pig remained in the entrails, so that
the slain pig was soon afterwards found moving about in
actual bodily form. Thenceforth pig's entrails became taboo
to the slayer of the pig and his descendants, and they came
to constitute the Kispotta clan. More matter-of-fact is the
account given as to the origin of the Khalkho Fish clan. An
Oraon was fishing in a stream. A Khalkho fish which was
caught in his net managed to escape. Thenceforward, the
Khalkho fish became taboo to the man and his descendants,
who came to be called men of the Khalkho clan.
" Although the members of an Oraon clan do not believe
in their actual descent from their totem animal or plant, they
regard themselves as descendants of a common ancestor, and,
as such, blood-relatives between whom marriage or sexual
intercourse is not permissible. Although an Oraon will
strongly protest that such a union is an incest (a '
brother-
sister union '
as he calls it) which can never be permitted, the
genealogical method of inquiry will occasionally reveal an
instance here and there of such endoganious union. But in
each of the few instances of this sort of union that you may
come across, you are sure to find on inquiry that some pre-
marital intrigue leading to inconvenient consequences resulted
in a permanent union which was ultimately sanctioned by the
village and the Parha ^ to which the man belonged, only on
the latter having paid a fine and provided a feast to the
'
Parha brethren.' After the offending pair are thus formally
re-admitted into the tribe, and their union thus legalized, their
sons are considered as good as legal heirs born of lawful
wedlock. But of every case of such union, if the parties are
no longer in the land of the living, you will be told that such
a union could not endure, and that, '
as was but inevitable,'
one of the pairs died within a few years of the union. . . ,
As totemism is now a dying institution amongst the Oraons
except in its relation to marriage, you will find many Oraons
of the present generation ignorant of the gotras of such near
relatives as their mother's father and the husband of either
their mother's sister or father's sister. Although an Oraon
may not marry into his own totem, he may marry into the
totem of his mother.
^ Federation of villages.
CH. I TOTEMISM IN CIIOTA NAGPUR yn
" As a general rule, an Oraon must abstain from eating
or otherwise using, domesticating, killing, destroying,
maiming, hurting, or injuring the animal or plant or other
object that forms his totem ;
nor must he use anything made
of it or obtained from it, and, when practicable, he will
prevent others from doing so in his presence. In the case
of tree-totems, the men of the clan will neither go under the
shade of the tree nor cut or burn its wood nor use its produce
in any shape. When, however, the totem is an animal or
plant or other thing which forms an indispensable article
of diet or household use, considerations of necessity or
expediency appear to have introduced a modification of the
taboo against using it. Thus, instead of abstaining altogether
from the use of paddy, Oraons of the Khes or paddy clan
abstain only from eating the thin scum that forms on the
surface of rice-soup when it stands unagitated in a cool
place. Similarly, instead of avoiding the use of salt altogether,
Oraons of the Salt clan have only to abstain from taking raw
salt unmixed with any food or drink, but may take food or
drink to which salt has been added in cooking or in which
even raw salt has been mixed beforehand. In the same way,
men of the Iron clan have only to abstain from touching
iron with their lips or tongue, but may use iron in any other
way they like ; and men of the Pig clan may eat all parts
of the pig except only the head. Men of the Bara clan may
not eat the bar fruit by splitting it up in two, but are allowed
to eat it whole.
" From similar considerations, some of the class of totems
that Dr. Frazer ^ calls '
split-totems '
may have arisen. Such
are the Kis-potta (pig's entrails) and the a^n^'i (rice-soup)
clans. Some may have arisen, as Dr. Frazer suggests, by
'
the segmentation of a single original clan, which had a
whole animal for its totem, into a number of clans, each
of which took the name either of a part or of a sub-species
of it.
'2
" If in the cases of certain clans the totem-taboo has been
thus modified to suit the convenience of men of the totem
—
in a few cases, on the other hand, the taboo has been ex-
tended by the law of similarity to other objects that have a
^ Totemism and Exogamy, i. lO. - Totemism and Exogamy, i. 58.
378 TO'lliMJSM IN INDIA hk. iv
real or fancied resemblance to the totem or may happen to
bear the same or a similar name to the totem's. Thus men
of the Tiger (^Lakra) clan, besides the various taboos they
have to observe in connection with the tiger and the wolf,
have also to abstain from eating the flesh of the squirrel, in-
asmuch as the squirrel's skin is striped like the tiger's. Men
of the Kerketa (hedge-sparrow) clan, in addition to the usual
taboos with regard to the '
Kerketa,' observe a similar taboo
with regard to the Dhichua or King-crow which has also a
long tail like the Kerketa. In some localities, again, an
Oraon of the Tiger (Lakra or Bagh) clan may not marry
in the month of Magh (December or January) inasmuch as
the word '
Magh '
rhymes with '
Bagh '
—-the Hindi name for
a tiger. Similarly, men of the Monkey (Gari) clan besides
observing the taboo against killing, hunting, domesticating,
or eating the flesh of a monkey, have also to abstain from
sitting under the shade of a tree bearing the same name
(Gari) or cutting or burning its wood. . . .
" In a few cases a double totem appears to have arisen
from the anxiety felt by a particular totem to change a totem
name, now considered opprobrious, into a more respectable
name. Thus in a few villages, we have found members of
the Kis-potta (pig's entrails) clan, when asked as to their
gotra or clan give their gotra-name as kasai (a kind of tree) ;
and, on enquiry, we found that while observing the customary
taboos wuth regard to pigs, they observe in addition further
taboos wuth regard to the '
Kasai '
tree, under which they do
not sit, whose branches they do not burn, and whose fruit
they do not eat. Fusion of clans may be a possible explana-
tion for such a transformation of the totem name." ^
" Whether in its origin the institution of totemism had
any relation to religion or not, certain practices still survive
here and there among the Oraons to indicate that at a certain
period in the history of the tribe religion was intimately
associated with Oraon totemism. So far as the actual
animals, plants, or other objects that form the totems of the
different Oraon clans are concerned, they no longer appear
to be objects of any definite religious observances unless the
taboos attached to the clan totems may have owed their
^ S. C. Roy, The Oraons of Chota Nagpur, pp. 324 sqq.
CH. I TOTEMISM IN CHOTA NAGPUR 379
origin to an appreciation and are of a certain niana or
sacredness inherent in them.
" The totem-emblems of a few Oraon clans, however,
still appear to receive divine honours and even sacrifices and
offerings. Thus in the village of Amboa (within the Police
Circle of Lohardaga) where the Bhuinars or descendants of
the original Oraon founders of the village belong to the ekka
or tortoise clan, one wooden image of a pig with two wooden
images of the tortoise (said to be the offspring of the pig)
are kept in the village priests' house and on the day preceding
a jatra or dancing-tryst held periodically in the neighbour-
hood, the wooden images are ceremonially bathed in water,
painted in appropriate colours and anointed with vermilion
and offered a libation of rice-beer and the sacrifice of a
chicken. Similar rites are observed with respect to two wooden
images of tigers at village Jamgain (in the Police Circle of
Lohardaga) where the Oraon Bhuinars belong to the Lakra
or tiger clan and the wooden images of a fish (together with
similar images of crocodiles) in the village Kanjia (Police
Circle, Mandar) of which the Oraon Bhuinars belong to the
Khalkho fish clan. And the images of their clan-totems are
carried as fetishes to the jatra ground on the shoulders of
young men. On their way to X\\q jatra ground, these totem-
symbols receive offerings of bits of various articles of merchan-
dise from people carrying such merchandise for sale to
the market or jatra fair. And in whichever Oraon village
on their way the party happen to make a temporary halt,
the images are placed on the village dancing-ground
{akhra) and the Oraons of the village offer a libation of
rice-beer and in some cases a chicken which is not, however,
killed but is fastened to the wooden plank on which the images
are carried. Such a chicken is released on the return of the
party from the jatra ground, and may be taken away by
anyone who likes. In some villages, before the party start
for t\\Q jatra ground, a chicken is ceremonially fed on arua
rice and set apart with a vow to offer it in sacrifice to the
wooden or brass emblem of the village when the party
return home with success in any fight that may ensue at the
jatra.
" It has to be noted that in the majority of cases the
38o TOTEMISM IN INDIA HK. iv
wooden or metal images nowadays carried to the jatras do
not represent the totems of the present Bhuinhars or other
Oraon residents of the village at all ; in most cases they
appear to be emblems arbitrarily adopted in comparatively
recent times according to whim or fancy or chance. In some
of these cases, perhaps, they may represent the totems of the
first Oraon settlers who have since been displaced by later
immigrants ; but of this I have no positive evidence. In all
cases, however, these and similar emblems connected with
Oraon villages or Parhas (federations of villages) are believed
to be connected with the '
luck '
{ban-gi) of the village or
parha concerned, and receive divine honours and offerings." ^
'^
S. C. Roy, Oraon Religion and Customs.
CHAPTER II
TOTEMISM IN THE CENTRAL PROVINCES
§ I. Toteniisvi of the Bhaina
The Bhaina are a primitive tribe peculiar to the Central
Provixices and found principally in the Bilaspur District and
adjoining area, that is, in the wild tract of forest country
between the Satpura Range and the south of the Chota
Nagpur Plateau.^ The region has been called the Highlands
of Central India, and in it a number of primitive tribes have
been able to bid defiance to their enemies of the lowlands.
The Bhaina tribe is divided into a number of totem clans
or septs, named after animals or plants. Such are Nag the
cobra, Bagh the tiger, Chitwa the leopard, Gidha the vulture,
Besra the hawk, Bendra the monkey, Kok or Lodha the
wild dog, Bataria the quail, Durgachhia the black ant, and
so on. Members of a clan will not injure the animal after
which it is named, and if they see a corpse of their totem
animal or hear of its death, they throw away an earthen
cooking-pot and bathe and shave themselves as for one of
the family. Members of the Baghchhal or tiger clan will,
however, join in a beat for tiger though they are reluctant to
do so. At weddings the Bhainas have a ceremony known
as the gotra worship. The bride's father makes an image
in clay of the bird or animal of the groom's clan and places
it beside the marriage-post. The bridegroom worships the
image, lighting a sacrificial fire before it, and offers to it the
vermilion which he afterwards smears upon the forehead of
^ R. V. Russell, Tribes and Castes of the Central Proziinces of India
(London, 1916), ii. 223.
38
1
382 TOTEMISM IN INDIA bk. IV
the bride. At the bridegroom's house a similar image is
made of the bride's totem, and on returning there after the
wedding she worships this. Women are often tattooed with
representations of their totem animal, and men swear by it as
their most sacred oath. A similar respect is paid to the in-
animate objects after which certain clans are named. Thus
members of the Gawad or cowdung clan will not burn cow-
dung cakes for fuel ; and those of the Mircha clan do not use
chillies. One clan is named after the sun, and when an
eclipse of the sun occurs these perform the same formal rites
of mourning as the others do on the death of their totem
animal. Some of the groups have two divisions, male and
female, which practically rank as separate clans. Instances
of these are the Nagbans Andura and the Nagbans Mai or
male and female cobra clans ; the Karsayal Singhara and
Karsayal Mundi or stag and doe deer clans ; and the Bagh-
chhal Andura and Baghchhal Mai or tiger and tigress clans.
These may simply be instances of subdivisions arising, owing
to the boundaries of the sept having become too large for
convenience. In the Census of 191 1 the number of the tribe
was returned as seventeen thousand.^
§ 2. Toteviisni of the Bhils
The Bhils are another primitive tribe of mountaineers in
the Central Provinces who retain a system of totemism, some
account of which has been given in my earlier work.^ At
the present time the Bhils of the Central Provinces have only
two subdivisions based on religion, the Muhammadan Bhils,
who were forcibly converted to Islam during the time of
Aurangzeb, and the remainder, who, though they retain
many animistic beliefs and superstitions, have practically
become Hindoos. The Muhammadan Bhils only number
about three thousand out of twenty-eight thousand. Both
classes are divided into septs or clans, generally named after
plants or animals to which they still show reverence. Thus
the Jamania clan, named after the jaman tree, will not cut
or burn any part of this tree, and at their weddings the
1 R. V. Russell, op. cit. ii. 228.
- Totemism and Exogamy, ii. 218 sq. ; iv. 292 sq.
CH. II TOTEMISM IN THE CENTRAL PROVINCES 383
dresses of the bride and bridegroom are taken and rubbed
against the tree before being worn. Similarly, the Rohini clan
worship the ?-ohan tree, the Avalia clan the aoiila tree, the
Meheda clan the bahera tree, and so on. The Mori clan
worship the peacock. They go into the jungle and look for
the tracks of a peacock, and spreading a piece of red cloth
before the footprint, lay their offerings of grain upon it.
Members of this clan may not be tattooed, because they
think that the splashes of colour on the peacock's feathers are
tattoo-niarks. Their women must veil themselves if they see
a peacock, and they think that if any member of the clan
irreverently treads on a peacock's footprints he will fall ill.
The Ghodmarya (horse-killer) clan may not tame a horse
nor ride it. The Masrya clan will not kill or eat fish. The
Sanyan or cat clan have a tradition that one of their ancestors
was once chasing a cat, which ran for protection under a
cover that had been put over the stone figure of their goddess.
The goddess turned the cat into stone and sat on it, and since
then members of the clan will not touch a cat except to save
it from harm, and they will not eat anything which has been
touched by a cat. The Ghattaya clan worship the grinding
mill at their weddings and also on festival days. The Solia
clan, whose name is apparently derived from the sun, are
split up into four subclans : the Ada Solia, who hold their
weddings at sunrise ; the Japa Solia, who hold them at sun-
set ; the Taria Solia, who hold them when stars have become
visible after sunset ;
and the Tar Solia, who believe that their
name is connected with cotton thread and wrap several skeins
of raw thread round the bride and bridegroom at the wedding
ceremony. The Moharia clan worship the local goddess at
the village of Moharia in Indore State, who is known as the
Moharia Mata ;
at their weddings they apply turmeric and
oil to the fingers of the goddess before rubbing them on the
bride and bridegroom. The Maoli clan worship a goddess of
that name in Barwano town. Her shrine is considered to be
in the shape of a kind of grain-basket known as kilia, and
members of the clan may never make or use baskets of this
shape, nor may they be tattooed with representations of it.
A man may not marry in his own clan nor in the families
of his mother's and grandmother's. The union of first
384 TOTEMISM IN INDIA bk. iv
cousins is thus prohibited, nor may girls be exchanged in
marriage between two famihes. A man may not marry his
wife's sister during his wife's Hfetime. The Muhammadan
Bhils permit a man to marry his niatcrnal uncle's daughter,
his first cousin, and though he may not marry his wife's sister
he may keep her as a concubine.^
§ 3. Totemism of the Gonds
The Gonds are the principal tribe of the Dravidian family,
and perhaps the most important of the non-Aryan or forest
tribes in India. They belong properly to the Central Pro-
vinces, though some of them are found in Chota Nagpur and
other parts of Bengal. They have a system of totemism, of
which some account has been given. ^ A later and fuller
account of it is given by Mr. R. V. Russell in his valuable
work on the Tribes and Castes of the Central Provinces of
India. He tells us that many of the Gond clans are named
after animals and plants. Among the commonest clans in
all districts are Markam, the mango tree ; Tekam, the teak
tree ; Netam, the dog ;
Irpachi, the 7)iahna tree ; Tumrachi,
the tendu tree ; Warkara, the wild cat, and so on. Generally
the members of a clan do not kill or injure their totem animals;
but the rule is not always observed, and in certain cases they
have now some other object of veneration, possibly because
they have forgotten the meaning of the clan name, or the
object after which it is named has ceased to be sacred. Thus
the Markam clan, though named after the mango, now
venerate the tortoise, and this is also the case with the Netam
clan in Bastar, though the clan is named after the dog. In
Bastar a man revering the tortoise, though he will not catch
the animal himself, will get one of his friends to catch it, and
one who reveres the goat, if he wishes to kill a goat for a
feast, will kill it not at his own house but at a friend's house.
The meaning of the important clan names Marabi, Dhurwa,
and Uika has not been ascertained, and the members of the
clans do not know it. In Mandla the Marabi clan are
divided into the Eti Marabi and Padi Marabi, named after
1 R. V. Russell, op. cit. ii. 285 sqq.
- Totemism and Exogamy, ii. 222 sqq.
CH. II TOTEMISM IN THE CENTRAL PROVINCES 385
the goat and pig The Eti or goat Marabi will not touch a
goat nor sacrifice one to Bura Deo. They say that once
their ancestors stole a goat and were caught by the owner,
when they put a basket over it and prayed Bura Deo to
change it into a pig, which he obligingly did. Therefore
they sacrifice only pigs to Bura Deo, but apparently the Padi
(pig) Marabi also both sacrifice and eat pigs. The Dhurwa
clan are divided into the Tumrachi and Nabalia Dhurwa,
named after the tendu tree and the dwarf date-palm. The
Nabalia Dhurwas will not cut a dwarf date-palm nor eat its
fruit. They worship Bura Deo in this tree instead of in the
saj tree, making an iron doll to represent him and covering it
with palm-leaves.
In Betul the Gonds explain the totemistic names of their
clans by saying that some incident connected with the animal,
tree or other object occurred to the ancestor or priest of the
clan while they were worshipping at the Deo-khulla or god's
place or threshing-floor. The reason why these stories have
been devised may be that the totem animals or plants have
ceased to be revered on their own merits as ancestors or
kinsmen of the clan, and it was therefore felt necessary to
explain the clan name or sanctity attaching to the totem
by associating it with the gods. If this were correct the
process would be analogous to that by which an animal or
plant is first held sacred of itself, and, when this feeling begins
to decay with some recognition of its true nature, it is as-
sociated with an anthropomorphic god in order to preserve
its sanctity. The following are some examples recorded by
Mr. Ganga Prasad Khatri. Some of the examples are not
associated with the gods.
Gajjami, subclan of the Dhurwa clan. From gaj, an
arrow. Their clan ancestor killed a tiger with an arrow.
Kusadya Dhurwa (^Kosa, tasar silk cocoon). The clan
ancestor found a silk cocoon on the tree in which he worshipped
his gods.
Kohkapath. Kohka is the fruit of the bhilawa or marking-
nut tree, and path, a kid. The first ancestor worshipped his
gods in a bhilawa tree and offered a kid to them. Members
of this clan do not eat the fruit or flowers of the bhilawa tree.
Jaglya. One who keeps awake, or the awakencr. The
2 C
386 TOTEMISM IN INDIA bk. iv
clan ancestor stayed awake the whole night in the Deo-
khulla, or god's threshing-floor.
Guddani. Gudda is a place where a hen lays her eggs.
The clan ancestor's hen laid eggs in the Deo-khulla.
Ad^nachi (the dhaura tree). The clan ancestor worshipped
his gods under a dhaura tree. Members of the clan do not
cut this tree nor burn its wood.
Watka (a stone). Members of this clan worship five stones
for their gods. Some say that the clan ancestors were young
boys who forgot where the Deo-khulla was and therefore
set up five stones and offered a chicken to them. As they
did not offer the usual sacrifice of a goat, members of this
clan abstain from eating goats.
Tunirecha Uika (the tendu tree). It is said that the
original ancestor of this clan was walking in the forest with
his pregnant wife. She saw some tendu fruit and longed for
it and he gave it to her to eat. Perhaps the original idea may
have been that she conceived through swallowing a tendu
fruit. Members of this clan eat the fruit of the tendu tree,
but do not cut the tree nor make any use of its leaves or
branches.
Ttividan Uika. Tuvidan is a kind of pumpkin or gourd.
They say that this plant grows in their Deo-khulla. The
members drink water out of this gourd in the house, but do
not carry it out of the house.
Gadhamar Uika (Donkey slayer). Some say that the gods
of the clan came to the Deo-khulla riding on donkeys, and
others that the first ancestor killed a donkey in the Deo-
khulla.i
A man may not marry in his own clan, nor in one which
worships the same number of gods, in localities where the
classification of clans according to the number of gods
worshipped obtains. Intermarriage between clans which
are bhaiband or brothers to each other is also prohibited.
The marriage of first cousins is considered especially suitable.
Formerly, perhaps, the match between a brother's daughter
and sister's son was most common ; this is held to be a
survival of the matriarchate, when a man's sister's son was
his heir. But the reason has now been generally forgotten,
1 R. V. Russell, op. cit. iii. 67 sqq.
CH. II TOTEMISM IN THE CENTRAL PROVINCES 387
and the union of a brother's son and sister's daughter has
also become customary, while, as girls are scarce and have
to be paid for, it is the boy's father who puts forward his
claim. Thus in Mandia and Bastar a man thinks he has a
right to his sister's daughter for his son on the ground that
his family has given a girl to her husband's family, and
therefore they should give one back. The children of two
sisters may not, it is said, be married, and a man may not
marry his wife's elder sister, any aunt or niece, or his mother-
in-law or her sister. But marriage is not prohibited between
grandparents and grandchildren. If an old man marries
a young wife and dies, his grandson will marry her if he is
of proper age. In Bastar a man may marry his daughter's
daughter or maternal grandfather's or grandmother's sister.
He might not marry his son's daughter or paternal grand-
father's sister, because they belong to the same clan as
himself.^
§ 4. Totejuism of the Khan'
a
The Kharia are a primitive Dravidian tribe found in the
Central Provinces. A branch of the tribe inhabits Chota
Nagpur. Both branches possess a system of totemism.
The totemism of the Chota Nagpur Kharias has been de-
scribed by me elsewhere.^ In the Central Provinces the tribe
is divided into totems and exogamous clans, which pay
reverence to their totems. Thus members of the Kulu
(tortoise), Kiro (tiger). Nag (cobra), Kankul (leopard), and
Kuto (crocodile) clans abstain from killing their totem
animal, fold their hands in obeisance when they meet it,
and taking up some dust from the animal's track place it on
their heads as a mark of veneration. Certain clans cannot
wholly abstain from the consumption of their clan totem, so
they make a compromise. Thus members of the Baa, or
rice clan, cannot help eating rice, but they will not eat the
scum which gathers over the rice as it is being boiled. Those
of the Bilum or salt clan may not take up a little salt on one
finger and suck it, but must always use two or more fingers
for conveying salt to the mouth, presumably as a mark of
respect. Members of the Suren or stone clan will not make
^ R. V. Russell, op. cil. iii. 71 sqq. - Totemism and Exogamy, ii. 295.
388 TOTEMISM IN INDIA bk. iv
ovens with stones, but only with clods of earth. The tribe
do not now think that they are actually descended from
their totems, but tell stories accounting for the connection.
Thus the Katang Kondai or bamboo clan say that a girl in
the family of their ancestors went to cut bamboos and never
came back. Her parents went out to search for her and
heard a voice calling out from the bamboos, but could not
find their daughter. Then they understood that the bamboo
was of their own family and might not be cut by them.
The supposition is apparently that the girl was transformed
into a bamboo.
Marriage between members of the same clan is forbidden,
but the rule is not always observed. A brother's daughter
may marry a sister's son, but not vice versa}
§ 5. Totemism of the Koh
The Kols or Hos are a great tribe of Chota Nagpur
which has given its name to the Kolarian family of tribes
and languages. A branch of the tribe inhabits a district
bordering on Chota Nagpur, in Bengal. Its system of
totemism has been described in my earlier work.^
In the Central Provinces the Mandla Kols have a number
of totemic clans. The Bargaiyan are really named after a
village Bargaon, but they connect their name with the
bar or banyan tree, and revere it. At their weddings a branch
of this tree is laid on the roof of the marriage-shed, and the
wedding-cakes are cooked in a fire made of the wood of the
banyan tree and served to all the relations of the clan on its
leaves. At other times they will not pluck a leaf or a branch
from a banyan tree or even go beneath its shade. The
Kathotia clan is named after Kathota, a bowl, but they
revere the tiger. Bagheshwar Deo, the tiger-god, resides
on a little platform in their verandas. They may not join in
a tiger-beat nor sit up for a tiger over a kill. If they did sit
up they think that the tiger w^ould not come and would be
deprived of his food, and all the members of their family
would fall ill. If a tiger takes one of their cattle, they believe
that there has been some neglect in their worship of him.
^ R. V. Russell, op. cit. iii. 447 sq. ^ Totemism and Exogamy, n. 294 sq.
CH. II TOTEMISM IN THE CENTRAL PROVINCES 389
They say that if one of them meets a tiger in the forest he
will fold his hands and say, " Maharaj, let me pass," and
the tiger will then go out of his way. If a tiger is killed
within the limits of his village a Kathotia Kol will throw
away his earthen pots as in mourning for a relative, have
his head shaved, and feed a few men of his clan. The Katharia
clan take their name from kathri, a mattress. A member of
this clan may never have a mattress in his house nor wear
clothes sewn in cross-pieces as mattresses are sewn. The
word kathri (mattress) may never be mentioned before him,
as he thinks some great misfortune would thereby happen to
his family, but this belief is falling into abeyance. The
name of the Mudia or Mudrundia clan is said to mean
shaven head, but they apparently revere the white kumrha
or gourd, perhaps because it has some resemblance to a
shaven head. They give a white gourd to a woman on the
third day after she has borne a child, and her family then do
not eat this vegetable for three years. At the expiration of
the period the head of the family offers a chicken to Dulha
Deo, frying it with the feathers left on the head, and eating
the head and feet himself. Women may not join in this
sacrifice. The Kumraya clan revere the brown kumhra or
gourd. They grow this vegetable on the thatch of their
house-roof, and from the tinie of planting till the fruits have
been plucked they do not touch it. The Bhuwar clan are
named after bhu or bhunii, the earth. They must always
sleep on the earth and not on cots. Other clans are Nathunia,
a nose-ring ; Karpatia, a kind of grass ;
and Binjhwar, so
named from the tribe of that name.
Marriage within the clan is prohibited, but violations of
this rule are not infrequent. Outside the clan a man may
marry any woman except the sisters of his mother or step-
mother. Where, as in some districts, the clans have been
forgotten, marriage is forbidden between those relatives to
whom the sacramental cakes are distributed at a wedding.^
§ 6. Totcmism of the MajInvar
The Majhwar are a small mixed tribe who have appar-
1 R. V. Russell, op. cit. iii. 510 sq.
390 TOTEMISM IN INDIA bk. iv
ently originated from the Gonds, Mundas, and Kawars. They
have no subdivisions, but a number of totemic clans. Those
of the Bhainsa or buffalo clan are split into the Lotan and
Singhan subclans, lotan meaning a place where buffaloes
wallow and singh a horn. The Lotan Bhainsa say that their
ancestor was born in a place where a buffalo had wallowed,
and the Singhan Bhainsa that their ancestor was born while
his mother was holding the horn of a buffalo. These clans
consider the buffalo sacred and will not yoke it to a plough
or cart, though they drink its milk. They think that if one
of them killed a buffalo their clan would become extinct. The
Baghani Majhwars, named after the bagh or tiger, think
that a tiger will not attack any member of their clan unless
he has committed an offence entailing temporary excom-
munication from caste. Unless this offence has been expiated
his relationship with the tiger as head of his clan is in abeyance,
and the tiger will eat him as he would any other stranger. If
a tiger meets a member of the clan who is free from sin, he
will run away. When the Baghani clan hear that any
Majhwar has killed a tiger they purify their houses by washing
them with cowdung and water. Members of the Khoba or
peg clan will not make a peg or drive one into the ground.
Those of the Dumar or fig-tree clan say that their first
ancestor was born under this tree. They consider the tree
to be sacred and never eat its fruit, and worship it once a year.
Members of the clan named after the shiroti tree worship
the tree every Sunday.
Marriage within the clan is prohibited and for three
generations between persons related through females.^
§ 7. Totemisjn of the Nahals
The Nahals are a forest tribe who are probably a mixture
of Bhils and Korkus. They have totemic exogamous clans.
Those of the Kasa clan worship a tortoise and also a plate of
bell-metal, which is their family god. They never eat off a
bell-metal plate except on one day in the month of Magh
(January), when they worship it. The members of the Nagbel
clan worship the betel-vine or " snake-creeper," and refrain
1 R. V. Russell, op. cit. iv. 151 sq.
CH. II TOTEMISM IN THE CENTRAL PROVINCES 391
from chewing betel leaves, and they also worship the Nag or
cobra and do not kill it, thus having a sort of double totem.
The Bhawaria clan, named after the bhaicnr or black bee,
do not eat honey, and if they see a person taking the honey-
comb from a nest they will run away. The Khadia clan
worship the spirits of their ancestors enshrined in a heap of
stones {khad), or according to another account they worship
a snake which sits on a heap of pebbles. The Surja clan
worship Surya or the sun by offering him a fowl in the month
of Pus (December-January), and some members of the clan
keep a fast every Sunday. The Saoner clan worship the san
or flax plant.
Marriage is prohibited between members of the same
clan, but there are no other restrictions and first cousins may
marry. 1
§ 8. Toteinis7n of the Parja
The Parja are a small tribe, originally an offshoot of the
Gonds, who reside in the centre and east of the Bastar State.
They have exogamous totemic clans, as Bagh a tiger, Kach-
him a tortoise, Bokda a goat, Netam a dog, Gobi a big lizard,
Pandki a dove, and so on. If a man kills accidentally the
animal after which his clan is named the earthen cooking-
pots of hi's household are thrown away, the clothes are washed,
and the house is purified with water in which the bark of
the mango tree has been steeped. This is done in sign of
mourning, as it is thought that such an act will bring mis-
fortune. If a man of the snake clan kills a snake accidentally
he places a piece of new yarn on his head, praying for for-
giveness, and deposits the body on an ant-hill, where snakes
are supposed to live. If a man of the goat clan eats goat's
flesh it is thought he will become blind at once. A Parja
will not touch the dead body of his totem animal, and if he
sees anyone killing or teasing it when alive he will go away
out of sight. It is said that a man of the Kachhim (tortoise)
clan once found a tortoise while he was on a journey, and,
leaving it undisturbed, passed on. When the tortoise died
it was reborn in the man's belly and troubled him greatly,
and since then every Parja is liable to be afflicted in the same
1 R. \'. Russell, op. fit. iv. 259 sg.
392 TOTEMISM IN INDIA bk.iv
way in the side of the abdomen, the disease whieh is produced
being in fact enlarged spleen. The tortoise told the man that
as he had left it lying by the road, and had not devoted it to
any useful purpose, he was afflicted in this way. Hence,
when a man of the Kachhim clan finds a tortoise nowadays,
he gives it to somebody else who can cut it up. The story is
interesting as a legend of the origin of spleen ; but has
apparently been invented as an excuse for killing the sacred
animal.
Marriage is prohibited in theory between members of the
same clan. But as the number of clans is rather small, the
rule is not adhered to, and members of the same clan are per-
mitted to marry so long as they do not come from the same
village ;
the original rule of exogamy being perhaps thus
exemplified.^
§ 9. Toteniisvi of the Rautia
The Rautia are a cultivating caste of the Chota Nagpur
plateau, but they are also found in the Central Provinces.
The tribe has totemic clans, and retain some veneration for
their totems. Those of the Bagh or tiger clan throw away
their earthen pots on hearing of the death of a tiger. Those
of the sand or bull clan will not castrate bullocks themselves,
and must have this operation performed on their plough-
bullocks by others. Those of the Kansi clan formerly, accord-
ing to their own account, would not root up the kans grass
growing in their fields, but now they no longer object to do so
Other clans are Tithi, a bird, Bira, a hawk, Barwan, a wild
dog, and so on.
Marriage is forbidden within the clan, but is permitted
between the children of a brother and a sister or of two
sisters.^
§ 10. Toteniism of the Bhuinars
Around Pathalgaon in Udaipur State the Bhuinar are
divided into a number of exogamous clans {gotras), which
are definitely totemic. Among the totems are Dumen (the
dumen tree), Murhi (a vegetable), Sali (a tree), Nag (the
cobra), Sukra (spear grass), Maji, Chitki, Raki and Ali. In
^ R. V. Russell, op. cit. iv. 373 sq. '
R. V. Russell, op. cit. iv. 48 1 sq.
CH. II TOTEMISM IN THE CENTRAL PROVINCES 393
Jashpur State, the clans seem to be different. The following
totems are there found : Ahind (eel), Harhuria (a species of
snake), Kirketta (a species of bird), Goha (gecko), Beng (frog),
Thithio, Tope, Saras (various kinds of birds), and Chorant
(spear grass). V^eneration of the totem is observed in
various ways ;
for instance people of the Chorant clan take
a ceremonial bath if there is a forest fire. It may be noticed
that in Jashpur the totem names are the same for many
neighbouring tribes.^
§ II. Tote7}iis))i of the Pa}idos
The Pando tribe is found in several villages of Udaipur
State and probably elsewhere. The Pandos acknowledge
relationship with no other castes or tribes, but there are two
sub-tribes known as Utarha and Surgujiha. They have
exogamous clans {gotras), and give the following names of
them :
—Jau, Takey, Naupan, Jissey, Karwayhan, Kan-
hariya, and Jannoo. Additional names of clans found in
various villages are Baren (fig tree), Ithi (an insect), Kirketta
(a bird), Gohity (a gecko, a species of lizard), and one or
two others. Many of these clans are evidently totemic in
their origin, but the history of the names of some of them
is unknown. People of the baren clan will not eat figs,
those of the gohity clan will not eat the gecko, those of the
kirketta will not eat the kirketta bird, and so on. Informa-
tion regarding the clans is given to the tribes by their Baigas
or Goonias, that is, their priests.^
^ Census of India, 1931, vol. i. Part - Census of India, 1931, vol. i. Part
iii., ed. by J. H. Hutton (Delhi, 1935), "i- P- ^^•
p. 90.
CHAPTER III
TOTEMISM IN THE BOMBAY PRESIDENCY
Many survivals of totemism in the Bombay Presidency have
been discovered and recorded by Mr. R. E. Enthoven in his
standard work on The Folklore of Bombay} On this subject
he writes :
" The most interesting feature of the primitive
rehgion in the Presidency is to be found in the widespread
survival of totemism. Neither the Vedas nor subsequent
orthodox Hindu writings contain any mention of the worship
of trees, animals, and other objects in connection with a
belief that they are in the position of ancestors, and that all
who worship the same object should refrain from inter-
marrying. It may be assumed that the survival in full
vigour of the worship of totems in the south of the Presidency,
as well as the unmistakeable traces of a former totemistic
organisation found throughout the Deccan and Konkan, are
indications of a culture that is not Aryan in origin. Recent
research has brought to light a number of totem divisions
among the Marathas and the occupational castes of the
Deccan allied to the Marathas by common descent. In full
vigour, the totemism of Bombay means the worship of a tree,
animal, etc., on important occasions such as marriage, the
first occupation of a new house, or the setting-up of a thresh-
ing-floor at the commencement of harvest. The totem must
not be injured by its adherents, they must not use its products,
e.g. the fruit or wood of a totem tree, or the ivory from the
tusk of an elephant totem. The ban on intermarriage
between those worshipping the same totem is complete in
the Kanarese districts, where the system is still in full vigour.
' Oxford, 1924.
394
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN THE BOMBA V PRESIDENCY 395
Over eighty totems have been identified. The totem is there
known as a ball. In the Deccan and Konkan the totem
organization that formerly prevailed has been overlaid by a
system of family stocks, but the totem object, known as a
devak, is still worshipped. In many instances it still acts as
a barrier against intermarriage, though this is by no means
invariably the case. Campbell, who drew attention to the
existence of these totems among Marathas of the Deccan, in
his Kolhapur volume oiX\\& Bombay Gazetteer, described them
as '
marriage guardians.' Subsequent research has dis-
covered over 80 devaks in the Deccan and Konkan, and
leaves little doubt that they possess, or once possessed, all
the essential attributes of a real totem.
" It has already been remarked that totemism is not, so
far as we are aware, a social organization known to the
Aryans when they entered India. On the other hand,
Risley and Russell, writing of the tribes and castes of Bengal
and the Central Provinces, show that the primitive tribes in
those areas possess numerous totems that are not only
similar to those discovered in Bombay, but in some instances
are identical with them. We have, therefore, in the totem
trees and animals the undoubted remains of an early form of
primitive religion, unknown to the Aryan invaders. Investi-
gations of the subject in Bombay have so far only touched
the surface. Further study offers the promise of interesting
developments." ^
" Among the more primitive elements of the population
in India generally, the worship of trees, animals, weapons,
and implements of industry on the occasion of marriage, and
in such fashion as tends to justify the inference that the object
worshipped is regarded as an ancestor, is common and wide-
spread. In the Bombay Presidency these objects are known
as devaks in the Deccan and as balis in the Karnatak, and
are a common feature of many tribes and castes in the Deccan,
Konkan, and Karnatak. The significant points of this devak
worship are :
—
" (i) Those who own the same devak may not intermarry.
"
(2) The devak must in no circumstances be injured by
those who acknowledge it. It and its products, i.e. the fruit
^ R. E. Enthoven, op. cit. pp. 18 sqq.
396 TOTEMISM IN INDIA bk. iv
if it is a tree, or the jjarts of it if it is an animal, e.g. the tusks
of an elephant if the elephant is the devak, must be treated
with respect, not used for food or ornament, or injured in
any way.
" The preparation of a complete list of the devaks and
balls of the Bombay Presidency would necessitate a special
inquiry. A large number, however, will be found in the
pages of Tribes and Castes of Bombay,^ under the article on
Marathas. It will be sufficient to give a few examples here.
Trees and Plants
1. Mango.
2. Babul {Acacia arabica).
3. Bel {Aegle Marmelos).
4. Bor {Zizyphus Jiijuba).
5. Chinch {Tamarind).
6. Kadamb {Anthocephalns Cadaniba).
7. Km {Calotropis gigafitea).
8. Shami {Prosopis spicigera).
9. Nim {Melia Azadirachta).
10. Banyan tree and others of the fig class.
Animals and Birds
1. Horse. 9. Cobra.
2. Mouse deer. 10. Goat.
3. Pig. II. Elephant.
4. Eagle. 12. Y\]^ {sanibhar).
5. Tortoise. 13. Monkey.
6. Crow pheasant. 14. Porcupine.
7. Buffalo. 15. Wolf.
8. Peacock. 16. Chital {Axis inaciilata).
Implements of Industry
1. Spinning-whorl (rZ/rt/). 5. Blowpipe) , ^, ,, .^,
.^ ^ ^ '
^ r.- of the goldsmith.
2. Axe. 6. Pincers j
3. Potter's patter. 7. Knife.
4. Oil-mill. 8. Sword.
" The following are instances illustrative of the absten-
tion, on the part of those who worship such devaks, from
using or injuring the same, as well as their products, in
any way
:
" Those of the elephant devak will not injure an elephant
^ R. E. Enthoven, The Tribes and Castes of Bombay, 3 vols. (Bombay,
1922).
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN THE BOMBA Y PRESIDENCY 397
or wear ornaments of ivory made from its tusks. Those of
the elk devak will not injure the elk. Members of the tiger
group are very averse to injuring a tiger, as for instance the
Bhils, amongst whom the Vaghs or tiger section worship the
tiger and grieve when they hear of a tiger being killed. They
are said to prostrate themselves when they encounter a tiger.
Among the Kunbis, the Shelar or goat section will not eat
the flesh of a goat, and those of the More or peacock section
abstain from eating the flesh of a peacock. Among Bhandaris,
the Padwals, or snake-gourd section, will not eat the snake-
gourd. Those who respect the Banyan tree as a devak will
not use the leaves of this tree for any purpose. Certain
families among Kunbis, of the Banyan section, will not even
take food from leaf-plates fashioned from Banyan leaves.
Maratha traders of the Jack-fruit tree section will not eat
the Jack-fruit. Similar instances can be multiplied indefinitely.
" It has been noted that the special occasion for the
worship of the devak is marriage. It is, however, a common
custom to worship it also
—
(i) on the occasion of occupying a new house for the first
time ;
(2) at the time of preparing the threshing-floor in the
field when the harvest has been gathered ;
(3) on the occasion of performing the thread-girding
ceremony.
"If the houses of the bride and bridegroom are in the
same village or town, the installing, or setting-up for worship,
of the devak takes place on the marriage day. Otherwise it
takes place two or three days previously. In installing the
devak the first step is to worship the household gods. The
company then repair to Maruti's temple, the bride carrying
a platter containing the devak or an image of it and an offering
of food. Here the devak is formally worshipped, and then
brought back to the bride's house, where it is either affixed
to the marriage booth or placed with the household gods
until after the completion of the marriage ceremony. Some-
times, after visiting Maruti's temple with the devak, the bridal
party repair to the village potter's house, where the devak is
again worshipped. This is an indication of the primitive
nature of the rite.
398 TOTEMISM IN INDIA BK. iv
" Another method of devak worship is as follows : A
small quantity of rice is put into a winnowing fan and with it
six small sticks of the devak, each covered with Mango leaves
and cotton thread. These are worshipped as deities. Near
the winnowing-fan is kept an earthen or copper vessel filled
with rice, turmeric, red powder, betel-nuts, sweet-balls made
of wheat flour, ghi, and sugar ; and on the top of the vessel
is a small sprig of the devak and a coconut covered with
cotton thread. This vessel is also worshipped as a deity,
and offerings of sweet eatables are made to it. The winnowing-
fan is taken to the temple of Maruti. After the worship of
this vessel, the regular ceremony of holy-day blessing is
performed. Twenty-seven mothers, or village and local
deities, represented by betel nuts, are consecrated in a new
winnowing-fan or a bamboo basket. Seven mothers are
made of Mango leaves, six of which contain Dnrva (Cynodon
Dactylon) grass, and the seventh Darbha {E?'agrostis cyno-
suroides) grass. Each of them is bound with a raw cotton
thread separately. They are worshipped along with a copper
vessel as mentioned above. The copper vessel is filled with
rice, betel-nuts, turmeric, etc., a sprig of Mango leaves is
placed on the vessel and a coconut is put over it. The vessel
is also bound with a cotton thread. Sandal paste, rice,
flowers, and Di^rva {Cynodon Dactylon) grass are required
for its worship. An oil-lamp is waved round the devak, the
parents and the boy or the girl whose thread or marriage
ceremony is to be performed. An unwidowed woman
{suvasint) is called and requested to wave this lamp, and the
silver coin which is put into the lamp by the parents is taken
by her. The father takes the winnowing-fan and the mother
takes the copper vessel, and they are carried from the marriage
booth to the devak consecrated in the house. A lighted lamp
is kept continually burning near this devak till the completion
of the ceremony. After completion of the thread or marriage
ceremony the devak is again worshipped, and the ceremony
comes to an end. The deity in the devak is requested to
depart on the second or the fourth day from the date of its
consecration. No mourning is observed during the period
the devak remains installed in the house.
" In the Deccan, on the day before the marriage, the
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN THE BOMBAY PRESIDENCY 399
twig of the devak is brought home and worshipped. It is
then carried, first to Maruti's temple and then to a potter's.
After worship at both places, it is brought to be tied to a
post of the Mandap.'''^
The worship thus paid to devaks or balls seems to prove
that they are not common totems, but that, if, as appears
probable, they once were so, they are now in process of
developing into a sort of minor domestic divinities. It is not
surprising to find old totems thus passing into new gods.
We have seen indications of a similar promotion of totems in
Tikopia. Gods are subject to evolution like animals and men.
^ R. E. Enthoven, op. cit. pp. 208 sqq.
CHAPTER IV
TOTEMISM IN MYSORE
Of totemism in Mysore I have given an account in Toteniism
and Exogamy} That account was based on the preHminary
issue of H. V. Nanjundayya's The Ethnographic Survey of
Mysore (Bangalore, 1907). It has since been repeated by
Mr. L. K. Ananthakrishna Iyer, in the first vohime of his
work, The Mysore Tribes and Castes (Mysore, 1935), pp.
246 sqq., where it will be more accessible to students than in
the preliminary reports from which I drew it. I need not
repeat it here.
1 Totcytiism and Exogamy, ii. 269 sqq.
400
CHAPTER V
TRACES OF TOTEMISM IN THE PUNJAB
The Punjab has long been the gateway through which the
tide of invasion has, age after age, flowed into India from
the west. We need not therefore expect to find in it at the
present day any of those primitive Dravidian tribes which,
elsewhere in India, behind the safe barriers of their mountains
and forests, have retained their primitive systems of totemism
to the present time. However, some traces of totemism
survive in the taboos observed by various sections {got) of
the Chuhra, the despised and out-caste sweepers and
scavengers, who occupy the lowest rung on the social ladder.
On this subject I will quote the evidence of Mr. H. A. Rose
in his Glossary of the Tribes and Castes of the Pu7ijab and
North-West Frontier Province (Lahore, 191 1), vol. ii. pp.
188 sq. :—
" The Gil will not eat bataun, the egg-plant {bhata bart) :
the Lute do not eat hare or rabbit : the Kanare abstain
from cloves : the Sahotre refuse to look on a tiger ; at
marriages, however, they make the images of a tiger which
the women worship : the Bhatti will not sit on a bench of
boards or bricks : no Chuhra will eat seh, or hedgehog.
" The Sarwan Chuhras do not dye cloth with kasumba,
saffron, and will only use thatch for their roofs. In Dera
Ghazi Khan the different sections reverence different animals,
i.e. the Sahota respect the lion, the Athwal or Uthwal the
camel, and one section the porcupine, while bricks are said
to be reverenced by the Gil, men bowing and women veiling
their faces before them. Thus the Sindhu 7nuhin or got
respects indigo ; the Kandiara respects the horned rat ;
401 2 D
402 TOTEMISM IN INDIA BK. IV
while the Khokhar got is said to avoid eating bharta, i.e.
anything roasted on a fire. The Khokhar got is also said to
abstain from the flesh of dead animals as well as from eating
the heart, which all other Chuhras will eat.
" The flesh of the hare is also avoided iDy Chuhras
generally—a tabu explained by the following legend :
—Once
a Chuhra by chance killed a calf, and hid it under a basket,
but its owner tracked it to the Chuhra's house. The Chuhra
declared that the basket contained a hare, and when it was
opened it was found that the calf had turned into a hare, so
from that time all the Chuhras have given up eating hare.
Some, however, do not abide by this rule. In Kangra it is
said that once a hare sought Balmik's protection, and thus
the tabu arose. In Montgomery the avoidance of hare's
flesh is ascribed to the influence of the Makhdum Jahanian
of Sher Shah, those who are not his followers disregarding
the prohibition. In Dera Ghazi Khan the current legend
is that once Bala Shah, the ancestor of the Chuhras, and
Mullah Nur, the Mirasi, were in God's dargah or court.
The latter asked Bala Shah not to sweep, whereupon a
quarrel arose and Bala Shah struck the bard with his broom,
knocking out his right eye. Mullah Nur appealed to God
and produced a hare as his witness—so now the sweepers do
not eat hare's flesh. In Gurgaon, however, the prohibition is
said to be confined to the Sus Gohar got, or, according to
another account, to the Balgher got. In Maler Kotla it is
confined to the Sahota got. About Leiah, women are said
to eat the hare, but not men."
BOOK V
TOTEMISM IN AFRICA
CHAPTER I
TOTEMISM IN SOUTH AFRICA
§ I. Totcniisui of the Basuto {Sotho) and Nguni {Angoni)
The latest account of totemisni among the Basuto or Sotho,
as the name appears to be given more correctly, is contained
in the following passage, which I extract from The Bantu-
Speaking Tribes of Sojith Africa} " Most offshoots of the
Nguni group, such as the Southern Transvaal Ndebele, the
Swazi, the Rhodesian Ndebele, and the Ngoni of Nyasaland
and Tanganyika, have preserved the same fundamental
social system. But there are one or two new principles which
must be noted. Among the Southern Transvaal Ndebele,
each isibongo, or clan, has a special species of animal linked
with it, known as its zila or taboo, which may not be named or
eaten or used by the members of that clan. This feature has
undoubtedly been copied from the surrounding Sotho tribes."^
" In all the Sotho tribes w^e find a wider grouping which
cuts across the limits of the tribes. The members of such a
wider group (for which there is no special native term) all
regard themselves as intimately bound up, in some mystical
way, with some species of animal or natural object, known as
their seano (object of reverence), sereto (honour), seila (taboo),
or seboko (praise-name). The name of this animal or object
is used as a ceremonial or laudatory form of address, just as
is the isibongo of the Nguni tribes. There are special myths
telling how each group originally obtained the seano, and
all the members of a group have to observe various taboos
and other usages in connection wnth the animal or object.
^ Ed. by I. Shapcra (London, 1937). ' Op. cit. p. iiO.
405
4o6 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
Formerly, if it was an animal, no one of that group might
eat its flesh, use its skin, or even touch it, lest some serious
misfortune befall him. Still less would he dare kill it, unless
it was harmful and did manifest damage, and in that case he
had to be ceremonially purified afterwards. There is no bar
to marriage of people having the same seano, but in cases of
mixed marriage the children take the seano of their father.
There also does not appear to be any social solidarity among
the members of such a group. Frequently they may be
scattered over many different tribes, as in the case of those
whose seano is the crocodile (kwena) ; they are found all
over the Sotho area. On the other hand, a single tribe can
also include members of many different seano groups. In a
single Ngwato ward, the following seano are to be found :
—
kzvena (crocodile) ; nioyo (heart) ;
tloii (elephant) ;
phuti
(duiker) ;
nare (buffalo) ; kxabo (ape) ;
tan or sebata (lion) ;
kubu (hippopotamus) ;
kolobe (boar). Sometimes a group,
or part of a group, would for some historical or political
motive discard its existing seano and adopt a new one, with
a corresponding change in the taboos which it had to observe.
'
'
^
§ 2. Totemis^n of the Bushynen of the Kalahari Desert,
the Hottentots, a?id the Bechiianas
Totemism was discovered among the Bushmen of the
Kalahari Desert by Mr. S. S. Dornan, who found it also
among the Hottentots of the Orange and Vaal Rivers, and
among the Bechuanas, among the last of whom it had been
well known before. I will extract Mr. Dornan's notices of the
institution in his own words. Speaking of the Bushmen, he
says :
" Totemism existed amongst them to a slight degree,
but was not nearly so elaborate as amongst the Bantu or the
Australians. A man of the Eland clan would not marry a
woman of his own clan as a rule, neither would he kill nor
eat the animal if he could help it."
^
" Most of the clans (of the Bushmen) are still further
subdivided, sometimes on a totemistic basis, as the Hiech-
ware Masarwas of the Sansokwe River are the Koha Kee or
^ Op. cit. pp. 01 sq. Bushmen of the Kalahari (London,
2 S- S. Dornan, Pigmies and 1925),?. 55-
CH. I TOTEMISM IN SOUTH AFRICA 407
zebra clan, those of the Tuh river are the Du Kec or eland
clan, and so on, while the Madenassena are the Pidi Kee or
goat clan, and the Khabo are the Khabo Kee or monkey
clan." 1
" Marriage (among the Bushmen) takes place within the
clan, that is, a man can take another woman of the same
clan, but she must not have the same totem as himself, or
bear the same surname, for all members of the same totem
bore that as a surname. In the same clan there might be
several different totem families. Totemism is not well de-
veloped amongst the wild Bushmen. It is only in its initial
stages, and so far as I know, or have learned, was never very
rigidly carried out. According to the Bushmen themselves
some tribes had none of it at all." ^
" Among the Kalahari Bushmen totemism is not highly
developed. . . . The Bushtnen are too much children of the
wild to have an advanced system of totemism. Some call
themselves the Zebra clan, as those of the Sansokwe river,
others the Eland clan, or the Duiker clan, while the Made-
nassena Bushmen call themselves the Goat clan. These latter
are partially tame Bushmen. While as a rule they avoid
killing and eating the totem animal, or reject certain portions
of it when eating, as the Duiker clan may eat all of that
animal except the heart ; still, if pressed by extreme hunger
they will not scruple to dispense with even this restriction.
I have heard of a clan, whose totem was the wild buffalo,
who did not scruple to eat any portion of an ox, although they
looked upon oxen as tame buffaloes. Thus taboo is by no
means strict with the Kalahari Bushmen." ^
Again, speaking of the Hottentots, Mr. Dornan says :
" When a man wanted to marry he had to go outside his
own clan ; he was obliged to give presents to the relatives
of the bride, just as the Bantu do. Some of the clans along
the Orange and Vaal rivers were named after various animals,
as the Springboks, Scorpions, Wild Cats, Zebras and Hippos.
Thus a member of the Scorpion clan could not marry a
Scorpion, but marry a Wild Cat or a Zebra. Though this
custom does not absolutely prove totemism, I think, as in the
^ S. S. Dornan, op. cit. p. 68. ^ S. S. Dornan, op. cil. p. ibi.
* S. S. Dornan, op. cit. p. 128.
4o8 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA HK. v
case of the Bushmen, it was the beginning (jf a system of
totemism, which had not developed very far." ^
Once more, writing of the Bechuanas, Mr. Dornan
observes :
" The seboko (pina), or tribal emblem of the
Bahlaping is the fish, of the Baphuti the duiker, of the
Bakuena the crocodile, of the Batlokwa the wild cat, of the
Baphiri the hyena, and so on. All these little clans are
Bechuanas, but each has its own seboko, tribal emblem or
totem." ^ "A young man could not marry a girl with the
totem of his own clan, that is, Wild Cat could not marry Wild
Cat, but Wild Cat might marry Porcupine, or Wild Vine,
and so on." ^
§ 3. Totemism of the Bavenda
The Bavenda are a Bantu tribe who occupy approxi-
mately a third of the inhabited territory of the Zoutpansberg
district in the Northern Transvaal. They have a system of
totemism ; but it is in a decadent condition. Of this subject
Mr. Stayt, who has published an excellent monograph on
the tribe, gives us the following account, in which he speaks
throughout of the totem-clan as a sib.
" In addition to being a member of a patriarchal family
and of a strong matrilineal group, every Muvenda * belongs
also to a sib, m-uttipo. These sibs were at one time exo-
gamous and of a totemic character ; they are now broken
down and have been replaced by the extended family. As
the members of a sib increased in numbers small families
began to break away from the original stem and to start inde-
pendent groups in different localities. These new groups
often retained the original name of their sib, while gradually
ignoring its peculiar character. As the connexion with the
original stem grew more remote, the rule of exogamy also
lapsed. Many old men still express horror at the thought of a
marriage between a man and woman of the same sib, con-
sidering such a union to be incestuous, all siblings to them
being brothers and sisters. Among the younger people,
however, provided the interested parties live some distance
^ S. S. Dornan, op. cit. p. 216. ^ S. S. Dornan, op. cit. pp. 277 sq.
- S. S. Dornan, op. cit. p. 244. *
Muvenda is the singular of Bavenda.
CH. I TOTEMISM IN SOUTH AFRICA 409
apart and cannot trace genealogical relationship, these unions
frequently occur.
" Members of a sib are called by the name of some animal,
plant, or object, between which and themselves they con-
ceive there is an intimate relationship, and which is always
regarded by them with considerable respect. It is difficult
to collect accurate information concerning the various sibs
and sub-sibs and their totems. The people seem reluctant
and almost afraid to mention their sib names, and there are
few^ men v^^ho have any knowledge of more than five or six.
The difficulty is increased still further by the fact that there
are different methods of answering a question about the sib.
When possible the name of the totemic animal or object is
avoided and the praise-name of the group substituted, or the
name of one of the original ancestors, or the name of the
elder sister of the headman of the sib, or that of the locality
with which the sib is chiefly associated. A man, in taking an
oath, always uses the name of his nmtupo. Many sibs are
commonly called by the name of the totem animal with the
prefix vha ;
e.g. Vha Dau are the people of the lion. Others
have the word ila interpolated between the prefix and the
name of the totem ; e.g. Vha-ila-nibudzi are the people for-
bidden the goat. A man has no objection to eating animals
which are taken to another sib, but he usually respects his
wives' totems and avoids eating them in their presence, or
conforms with the required ritual behaviour. A man whose
totem is the pigeon will frighten away any pigeon on his
premises to avoid its being killed, but if he catches one in a
trap accidentally he is not unduly worried, but gives it to a
friend belonging to a different sib to eat. Every sib has one
or more honorific phrases, tshikodo, associated with it. The
tshikodo is addressed to a chief when entering a village or
when he has performed a noteworthy action ; it is often
used by a visitor in greeting him as a sign of respect
and politeness. A father may reply to the greeting of
his child, using the sib tshikodo. A woman may use the
words in thanking a man for a service that he has rendered
her. . . .
" The following sibs are found in Vendaland to-day :
—
" (i) Vha Dau (people of the lion) have their sacred
4IO rOTl'lMISM IN AFRICA hk. v
mountain at Maungani. The totem animals of this sib are
lions, leopards and all felines.
" (2) Vha Kzvebo (people of the dove) have traditional
homes on the mountains at Tshicndeulu and Luonde. The
totem animals of the Vha Kwebo are the dove and the pig.
"
(3) Ndou (elephant) (the sib who tabu the elephant)
have traditional sacred homes at Tshirululuni, Fundudzi,
Thengwe, Ha Manenzhe, and Kokwani. The members of
the sib who come from Kokwani are also forbidden to eat
the small figs from the root of the fig-tree.
"
(4) Ma Khwinde, or Vha-ila-mbudzi (the people who
tabu the goat) have their ancestral home at Dzata. The Ma
Khwinde totem animal is the goat, which may not be eaten
unless it is eaten with a special ritual. The skin on the goat's
tail must be peeled back and the tail cut off at the root ; all
blood must be washed off and the animal left standing for a
short time before it is killed by having its throat cut. All
the important chiefs belong to this, the largest and most
honoured of all Venda sibs. Chief Mphaphuli, whose
ancestors were not Ma Khwinde (I was unable to discover
to what sib they originally belonged), now claims to be a Ma
Khwinde, distinguishing his section of the sib by calling it
Gutame, the name of one of his father's sisters.
" There are many other alternative names and praise-
names applied to branches. The great praise-name Singo
(elephant's trunk) is used in addressing an important chief. . . .
"
(5) Vh^ Laudzi, with their sacred mountains at Vhu-
lorwa, Tshingani, and Lwamondo, have no actual totem
animal or object ; they are forbidden to work in their gardens
on the day after they first see the new moon. Those from
Lwamondo are of Ba Sutho stock, from Palabora. Another
section of this sib has its mountains at Masia and Tsianda ;
they have adopted the goat as their totem and practise all
the Ma Khwinde tabus and are probably of Ba Thonga
stock.
" (6) Vha Dau (2) (People of the Lion). There are
several unrelated sections of this sib, all having for their
totem animals the lion and all felines. . . .
"
(7) Vhatzvanianiba, with its important branch sib the
Vha Leya, have their ancestral home at Tshivhula in the
CH. I TOTEMISM IN SOUTH AFRICA 411
Blaanberg ; they were originally of Sutho stock. It is tabu
for members of this sib to eat anything that has touched the
cooking-stones by the fire. If they are to eat a sheep, it must
be stabbed in the back, and while it is dying one of its forelegs
must be skinned. They are also forbidden to eat snails. The
Bavenda used to carry salt in snail-shells, so that it was tabu
for members of this sib to eat anything which had been
cooked with salt.
" (8) Vha Nyai, now a Venda sib, were originally a group
of people living north of the Limpopo. There are two sections
of this sib ;
one section may not eat sheep unless the shoulder
has been cut off before the animal is dead ; the other section
may not eat porridge that has been touched by the handle-
end of the porridge-stick.
"
(9) Vha Kho7}wlo are a small sib, with their ancestral
mountain in Southern Rhodesia. Their totem animal is the
buffalo, and they may not eat the heart of the buffalo or the
hoof of cattle.
" (10) Mbedzi. This is a large sib, probably one of the
earliest arrivals in the Zoutpansberg from Southern Rhodesia.
This group occupies the extreme east of Vendaland and has
given its sib name to that part of the country. The Mbedzi
totem animal is the crocodile, and all river animals are also
tabu to them. There is a tradition among the old Ma
Khwinde people forbidding their men to marry women of the
Mbedzi sib, as such unions are supposed to result in the
formation of disfiguring growths on the faces of the husbands.
I could obtain no history of this tabu, which is gradually
being allowed to lapse.
" (11) Vhafu-a-madi (Dead of the water). This was at
one time a praise-name of the Vha-Kwebo sib, but is now
the name of a separate sib, which has completely severed its
connexion with the Vha Kwebo. It is tabu for a member
of this sib to eat from the porridge-stick, which must always
be put into a pot of water as soon as porridge is ready.
" (12) Vha Dzivhani (At the pool). This sib, like a
section of the Vha Dau, is supposed to have been one of the
Ba Ngoni sibs. It is tabu for its members to drink the water
of the Mutali river where it runs into Lake Funduzi.
"
(13) Vha Pfumbe. Most of the Bavenda who are now
412 rOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
living in Southern Rhodesia are called Vha Pfumbe ; many
of them are descended from members of Mphephu's following
who remained in Southern Rhodesia when Mphephu returned
to Zoutpansberg after his exile. They are now considered as
a separate Venda sib.
" There are among the Bavenda some families among
whom there is a definite connexion between the original
ancestor and the totem. Nemaungani, of the Vha Dau sib,
whose totem animals are lions and all felines, believes that
his first ancestor was transformed into a leopard and still
accompanies him wherever he goes, stalking beside him in-
visible, but always alert and ready to kill his enemies ; he is
often called Nemaungani vha Nngwe (of the leopard) on
this account. Chief Lwamondo, w^hose village is situated
nearly at the top of Lwamondo Kop, belongs to the Vha
Laudzi sib, who venerate the new moon. All Vha Laudzi
living on the kop have also a very intimate connexion with
the baboon, and are to-day generally called the Vha-ila-Pfene
(^pfene, baboon). Junod ^ describes what he considers to be
the proper Venda theory on this point in the following way :
—
" '
It is believed that these baboons are the Badzimu (an-
cestral spirits) themselves. Each Mu Laudzi, when he dies,
becomes a baboon and goes to the sacred hill of Lomondo to
dwell there. There is a specially big baboon amongst them.
It never utters a cry. It is very old. It is the chief of the
flock, and the principal ancestor god. Only when a great
misfortune threatens the tribe one will hear it coniing out
of the forest and shouting loudly. Should a member of the
clan die away from Lomondo, it is the old baboon which
will go, accompanied by others, to fetch the new Mudzimo
(ancestral spirit), who has been transfornied into a baboon,
and it will bring the new god to the sacred hill. At the time
of the first fruit ceremony, the consecrated beer will not only
be poured on the back of the ox-grandfather, but part of it
will be brought to the forest of the gods and poured on a
rock for the baboon god. And when the party which went
into the forest returns to the village, one will hear a loud cry.
It is the old baboon, who once more has abandoned its
^ H. A. Junod, " Some Features of South AfricanJournal of Science, xvii.
the Religion of the Bavenda," The (1921) pp. 218 sq.
CH. I TOTEMISM IN SOUTH AFRICA 413
obstinate mutism to express thankfulness for the offering.
Then all the women assembled in the villages at the foot of
the hill will burst into cries of joy, those same peculiar yells
with which they greeted Raluvimbi when he visited the
country.'
" Junod considers that this connexion between the totem
animal and the ancestor god is a very unusual conception.
In most history origins of the sib the totem object gives birth
to a human being from which all the members of the sib
are descended. Here there is a belief of the transmigration
of souls into the totem animal. Junod does not record the
interesting origin of this metamorphic conception, which led
to the very natural identification of the baboon with the Vha
Laudzi ancestors. According to Chief Lwamondo and several
other informants, it happened that during the Swazi in-
vasions towards the end of the last century, the presence of
the Swazi impi, stealthily climbing the kop with the intention
of attacking the village unawares, was betrayed by the sudden
loud barking of a baboon. This timely warning led to the
discovery of the enemy impi and to its utter defeat in an
encounter which would otherwise have ended disastrously.
Surely the ancestors must have been responsible for the
opportune bark of the baboon, warning them of the terrible
danger at the critical moment ! The baboon must then be a
reincarnation of their first ancestor, and probably all other
baboons on the kop are similarly inhabited by ancestor spirits
!
The veneration described by Junod readily followed ;
the
conception of metamorphosis is vague, and apparently only
applies to baboons actually living on the kop. Chief Lwa-
mondo tells of a European hunter who wished to disprove
the sacred character of these baboons ;
he fired twelve shots
at a monster baboon, but of course failed to make a hit !
This anecdote, by which a portion of the Vha Laudzi sib
have become the Vha-ila-Pfene, is a good example of the
manner in which a sib-name, through some accidental cir-
cumstance, may be -
changed and an entirely new totem
adopted. Possibly many of the overlapping and obscure
totems have been the result of similar accidents ;
in time the
history origin of the sib-name and totem is forgotten." ^
1 H. A. Stayt, The Bavenda (London, 1931), pp. 186 sqq.
414 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
Among the Bavenda cross-cousin marriage with the
mother's brother's daughter is practised whenever possible,
and is an essential feature in the society. The only other
marriage that is permitted within the family group is with
the wife's brother's daughter, under special conditions.
Otherwise a man may marry anybody, from anywhere, pro-
vided that person is not connected by blood with either the
father's or mother's family group. Except in the above cases
the rule of exogamy is strictly adhered to, and applies to the
remotest blood relatives and even to many people in the
family group with whom there is no blood relationship
at all.^
§ 4. Toteniism of the Pedi
" If we cross the plain of the Sabi and reach the Drakens-
berg, we find that all the Pedi tribes dwelling together with
the Thongas in the Leydenburg and Zoutpansberg district
possess laudatory names which they also call seboko, the same
word as shibongo ; but most of these names are names_ of
animals, and are called by the technical term muthupti,
totem ; the animal is the emblem or totem of the group. The
Pedi clans are totemic. This means that, not only do they
glorify themselves by comparing themselves with an animal
and taking its name, but they think that there is a mysterious
vital connection between it and their social group. I cannot
give here all the facts I collected amongst them on the sub-
ject. . . . Let me merely mention the following details. The
Khahas of the Shiluvane valley have the small grey antelope,
called duyker, as totem. They salute each other in these
words :
'
Goni ! Phudi !
'
Goni is probably the name of an
old ancestor, the same as Nkuna for the Ba-Nkuna ;
but
phudi means duyker. They consider it taboo to make a
7tteke of its skin for their children. Some of them do not eat
the flesh of that antelope, fearing that their children would
become idiotic, or be covered with boils. They will not sit
near a man of another clan who is handling a duyker. The
Mashilas (Sekukuni's people), who have the porcupine as
totem, say :
'
It is taboo even to tread on its dung ;
the soles
of the feet would become sore.' Many clans are afraid to
1 H. A. Stayt, op. cit. p. 175.
CH. I TOTEMISM IN SOUTH AFRICA 415
kill the animal which is their totem ; this is not a law en-
forced by the chiefs ; the totem itself punishes them if they
transgress it. However, nowhere did I find the idea that they
are descended from the totem. They say :
'
The old people
noticed that the flesh of such and such an animal made the
people of their clan ill ; so they proclaimed it taboo.' Among
the Vendas, or at anyrate amongst certain Venda clans (Ba-
Laudzi, Ba-Ngwe, Ba-Shidzibe) the totem is connected with
the ancestor-gods. At his death each member is transformed
into the animal venerated by his clan and joins his congeners
in the sacred wood where they live.
" Nothing of this kind is met with amongst the Thongas.
The Thonga clans are atotemic. Many men bear the names
of animals, but this is merely a means of glorifying them-
selves ;
there is no taboo with regard to the flesh, skin, or
dung of that animal. I have come to this conclusion after a
careful investigation." ^
^ H. A.Junod, The Life of a South African Tribe, Second Edition (London.
1927), i. 367 sqq.
CHAPTER II
TOTEMISM IN RHODESIA
§ I . Totemism. of the Mashona
The Mashona, a group of Bantu tribes of Southern Rhodesia,
have a system of totemism, of which the chief features are
the following :
—
1. The niutupo or totem is a cognomen used in the
Roman sense, and
2. serves as such as a ceremonial and laudatory form of
address.
3. It acts (with modifications) as a bar of consanguinity
to ensure exogamy in the sense of agnatic relationship ;
the Dintupo, in these tribes, descending from father to
son.
4. It is a social bond between members of the same clan.
5. A taboo, or partial taboo, is attached to the animal,
part of carcass, plant, or even " element " whose
name is used or implied.
6. There are magical sanctions enforcing such taboo,
for example, the loss of teeth by the eater of an animal
tabooed,
" When we say that the inutupo is a cognomen, and
serves as a ceremonial and laudatory form of address, we
must add modifications. To begin with, the niutupo is
frequently not the commonly used name of the totem animal
or object which is tabooed. For example, those of the zebra
totem do not swear by nibizi (zebra), but by tembo (the
striped one). . . .
" A woman will not call her husband by his Diutupo
416
CH. II TOTEMISM IN RHODESIA 417
name in public, nor, indeed, elsewhere than in the privacy
of her own hut. Likewise it is in such circumstances only
that he uses her totem name. . . . Generally she is called
'
amai wa ningi ' '
mother of So-and-so,' even as she says :
'
Father of Mugaro '
to her husband, if Mugaro be the name
of their son. But note how a man is not ashamed to use the
totem name to his wife's younger sister, before he ?nar7'ies her.
Nor does he hesitate to ask a strange woman her totem name,
so that he may thank her correctly by using it when she has
brought him water. The woman should respond by using
the man's chidawo^ not his >m-itupo : the use of the niutupo
itself would be an indication of undue familiarity.
" As regards the other attributes tabulated, let us take
examples of actual niitupo (totems), and get a view of the
natives' own ideas, regarding '
totemism.'
" Dziwa, the pool, is a well-known -niutupo. The pool
in the river is big, and contains many creatures
—
nzwidz,
the otter, howe, the fish, vivuivu, the hippopotamus, ngwena
or garwe, the crocodile, and shanga or chipu^ the river reed.
So that, when a man is heard to be addressed as Dziwa,
another of the viutiipo may say, '
What of the pool are you
forbidden ? '
And so he will get an indication of the close-
ness of their relationship. So with those of the chibgwa
niutupo. They may be cats w^hich roar, that is lions, lynxes,
or even jichidza, the big owl which hoots like a lion.
" People of these unreal divisions intermarry in these times
of freedom, and ease their minds of any scruples they may
have by '
cutting the kin '
{ku cheka ivukama). This is done
by sacrificing the ox. The chief of the tribe should carry out
this rite, and he gets his portion of the meat for his good
offices. But the strict old conservatives do not approve.
'
Zzvi cha ira zwomene,' they say, and wait expectant for a
dire result of the marriage.
"... Before European influences were felt, Mashona
of the same mutupo (totem) but of differing zwidawo (sub-
divisions), intermarried. The chidawo, then, was of im-
portance in its uses, as well as of significance as an index to
the origin and essence of totemism. It was quite possible
that two unrelated agnatic groups might have the same
^ The chidawo is the general name for a subdivision of the totem chm.
2 E
4 1
8
TO TEMISM IN A FRICA B k . V
mutupo or totem, but hardly the same chidazvo. Therefore
the natives considered tPiat those of the differing zwidawo
might marry." ^
Fourteen years earher Mr. Bullock had suggested that the
subdivisions (chidawo) of the totem clans were introduced for
the purpose of allowing marriage between distant members
of the same agnatic group or totem clan. He still thinks
that there is an element of truth in the suggestion, but that
it is not the whole truth.
^
For a full account of Mr. Bullock's views on the subject
I must refer the reader to his own work. Mr. Bullock gives the
native names of a hundred and forty-six Mashona totems,
but without their English equivalents.^
§ 2. Toteniisni of the Ila-speaking Peoples of Northern
Rhodesia
The Ila-speaking peoples of Northern Rhodesia inhabit
the country lying to the north of the Batoka plateau, above
the middle Zambesi. They are divided into at least ninety-
three totemic clans. The clans are strictly exogamous. For
example, no leopard man may marry a leopard woman.
Members of different clans living in the same village may
marry ; but members of the same clan though they live even
a hundred miles apart, niay have neither regular nor ir-
regular intercourse. Wilful breaches of the law have occa-
sionally occurred, but they are regarded by the people
with the utmost abhorrence. Cases have happened when the
breach has been committed in ignorance, and the relationship
of the couple has not been discovered till after marriage. In
such cases no punishment is meted out to the offenders ; the
marriage is simply dissolved, or the pair are left to suffer
what is regarded as the inevitable fate of those who break a
taboo. The general rule is that children, both male and
female, take the clan of their mother, not of their father,
though in a very few instances men on being questioned as
to their clan have mentioned the clan of their father.
The exogamous clan is called a vuikoa. The members of
^ C. Bullock, The Mashona ~ C. Bullock, op. cit. p. 77-
(Johannesburg, 1927), pp. 78 sq. '*
C. Bullock, op. cit. pp. Si sqq.
CH. II TOTEMISM IN RHODESIA 419
the clan call themselves by the name of some animal or
plant or natural object between which and themselves they
conceive to be a certain relationship, and which they accor-
dingly regard with considerable respect. Messrs. Smith and
Dale, to whom we owe a very valuable account of these I la-
speaking people, have compiled a list of ninety-three of their
clans, with the names of their totems. Among these names we
may note : zebra, vulture, ground hornbill, elephant, wart-
hog, hare, river-monster, barbel-fish, cattle, ring-dove, hyena,
kite, goat, baboon, scavenger beetle, lion, wild dog, crab,
hartebeest, crocodile, wasp, small bird (intite), monkey,
termite ant, genet, buffalo, jackal, squirrel, crow, hippo-
potamus, scorpion, hornet, eland, snake, palm, palm-leaves,
niayovu (a tree which is said not to shake in the wind), palm-
bush, baobab tree, 7nasale ( a kind of grass), niankonte (a
kind of edible root), wild orange, honey, grain, rain, river,
iron, wind.
Messrs. Smith and Dale never heard of any ceremonies
performed for the increase of a totem, such as the Australian
aborigines so often observe. " The Totemism of the Ba-ila,"
they say, " exists as a feature of their social organization, not
as part of their religion : the only semi-religious feature in it
is in the reverence in which the totem is held. In the case
of the animal totems this is shown in their not being killed
or eaten by the clan. If you ask a man whether he eats his
totem, he will protest vigorously against the idea. . . .
Katumpa, of the dog clan, when asked if he ate dogs, said,
'
Shall I eat a man ? '
Yet this is not now a universal feeling.
In this respect the totemism of to-day is a degeneration. Old
men will refrain from killing or eating where young men will
have no scruples. One young nian said when we asked
whether he would eat his kinsman the lion, '
Yes, even if it
had just devoured my father. I would take him out of its
stomach and eat the lion.' Generally speaking, we may say
that where the totem animal is edible the younger men will
eat it, and will only refrain when the animal is in itself un-
palatable. Thus the Bakubi clan, whose totem is the vulture,
the Bachiwena (Crocodiles), the Banaumpe (Wild-dogs) do
not, and are hardly likely to break the ancestral custom ;
while on the other hand the Bono, whose totem is cattle,
420 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA BK. V
the Basantis (Oribis), Banakonzes (Hartebeestes), etc., are
strongly tempted to eat, and as a matter of fact the younger
generation do eat, the totem. In former days the Bono
refrained not only from eating beef but also from drinking
milk. In respect to totems other than animals and birds we
can hardly understand in what ways reverence was shown
them. The Banamaila could hardly have refrained from
eating grain, or the Batunga from drinking water." ^
Messrs. Smith and Dale attempted to test some current
theories of the origin of totemism by questioning the Ila-
speaking people about their totems, and though the results
of their enquiries were negative, they are not the less instruc-
tive, if only as a warning against premature generalisations.
I will therefore quote their own account of their enquiry.
They say :
" Why do a number of people associate them-
selves with and call themselves by the name of a particular
class of animals, plants, or things ? The clans are connected
in some way with certain localities, and it might be thought
that the totem is an animal or plant living or growing
especially in those places. But none of the totems is
sufficiently localised to support such a conjecture. Duikers
and lions and pigeons and baobab trees, and what not, are
found in every district ; so we must certainly rule out that
suggestion. We must also reject the theory by which Dr.
Theal tried to account for the remnants of totemism among
the tribes of South Africa. The Ba-ila do certainly believe
in transmigration ; but there seems to be little or no con-
nection between their totemism and their conceptions of
metempsychosis. . . .
" The Banachibizi do not pass after death into zebras,
nor the Banasulwe into hares. The number of the animals
into which the Ba-ila do pass, or believe they pass, is strictly
limited in number ; and people of any clan can pass into them
—into lions, for example. We cannot indeed find in the facts
before us any reason to support any of the current theories as
to the origin of Totemism. Nor is that to be wondered at.
The Ba-ila are far from ranking among the most primitive
people of the world ;
they are far advanced beyond the
^ Rev E. W. Smith and Captain of NortJiern Hkodesia {London, 1920),
A. M. Dale, The Ila-Speaking Peoples i. 287 sqq., and 310 sqq.
CH. II TOTEMISM IN RHODESIA 421
Australian aborigines, for example, who know nothing of
working in metals or agriculture. Sir James Frazer may
find justification in their ignorance of elementary physio-
logical facts for his '
conceptional '
theory, but, whatever it
may have been in the past, any such theory would now only
provoke the Ba-ila to ridicule. Like the Australians, the
Ba-ila believe implicitly in reincarnation, but not without the
ordinary processes of nature. With Sir James Frazer's
theory in mind we put the question to one of the oldest men
in the country, whether he had ever heard, or whether his
fathers had ever told him, of a child being born in that
manner. Without any hesitation, and with the air of one
who closes a subject with a word, he asked, '
Did you ever
know of a cow calving without a bull ? '
A pastoral people
are not likely to remain in ignorance of such matters.
" We cannot hope, in fact, to offer any suggestion as to
the origin of Totemism. We have put questions in various
forms, direct and indirect, to many people, and have specially
questioned the old men as to what they learnt from their
fathers, but no rational answer can be obtained. Nor can
we offer our readers any legends like those recorded by
Messrs. Spencer and Gillen, and other writers. The totem
is regarded as a relation, but how or why it is so they can
offer no explanation." ^
The Ba-ila, that is, the Ila-speaking peoples, have the
classificatory system of relationship. With regard to the
marriage of cousins, which is a crucial point in the social
institutions of so many totemic and exogamous peoples,
Messrs. Smith and Dale observe :
" If I am a male, I address
my male cross-cousin as mulongzvangtc (' my friend '), and
my female cross-cousin as nnvinangu (' my wife ') ;
if I am
a female I address him as Dmliuni angu (' my husband '),
and her as mukazhima (' my fellow-wife '), that being the
proper term used by one wife of a polygamist to another.
This form of address found here and elsewhere is one of the
most curious things in the system. Why should the children
of a man and his sister address each other respectively as
man and wife ? It is because, according to clan rules, they
might marry. Intercourse between the children of two
1 E. W. Smith and A. M. Dale, (;/. cit. i. 289 sq.
422 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
sisters are regarded as incestuous because they have the same
totem, but these are of different clans. . . . But as a matter
of fact, latter-day custom does not allow such marriages ;
while I may marry the daughter of my father's sister, I may
not marry the daughter of my mother's brother. ... Of the
four possible cousin marriages, therefore, the Ba-ila nowa-
days only allow one." ^
§ 3. Toteinism of the Ba-Kaonde
The Ba-Kaonde is a Bantu tribe which, with its neighbours,
inhabits the Kasempa District of Northern Rhodesia. An
account of the social and totemic system of the tribe has been
given us by Mr. F. H. Melland, who was Magistrate for the
Kasempa District from 191 1 to 1922.^ He tells us that " the
Kaonde tribe, as at present constituted, appears to be of mixed
origin ; but there can be small doubt that the main stocks
forming it are all parts of the Luba family and represent some
stages of the great migration that swept over all this part of
Africa, starting some three to five centuries ago, and coming
from somewhere in the north-west." ^
With regard to the totemic system of the tribe, Mr.
Melland informs us that "it is generally accepted that
totemism is connected with exogamy (marrying outside the
family), and on these grounds the niukoka must be called a
totem. The whole essence of the viikoka is exogamous.
Except for this one feature, however, it cannot be said that
totemism is of much importance to the Ba-Kaonde (and other
similar tribes) nor of much interest ethnographically.
" It is said that Mulonga and Mwinambuzhi (' Adam '
and '
Eve ') had very many children, who chose names for
themselves, and chose those of familiar objects around them
Thus one called him (her-) self chulu (ant-hill), another
mbowa (mushroom), another nuilonga (water), a fourth
kasaka (kaffir corn), and so on. (Parenthetically it may be
noted that many words used as the eponyms of the totems
are, in all tribes, often archaic, and form—frequently
—
^ E. W. Smith and A. M. Dale, Africa (London, 1923).
op. cit. i. 318 sq. ^ F. H. Melland, op. cit. p. 28.
- F. H. Melland, In IVitch-Bound
CH. II TOTEMISM IN RHODESIA 423
connecting links between tribes. For instance, kasaka (as
above) is not used nowadays in Chikaonde ^ for kaffir corn,
mebele being the word. But 7nasaka is the Chiwemba
for the same grain. The Wawemba call the duiker
mpombo, but as an eponym they use the word kashya, which
is the modern name in Chikaonde for the same antelope ;
viulonga is used in Chiwemba for a stream (or running water),
but is only used now in Chikaonde as a totem—with the
same meaning, and so on.
" These children of Mulonga and Mwinambuzhi in their
turn had children, and the name of the children of the first
couple remained as the family (or totem name) : the de-
scendants of Kasaka, for instance, being known as Benasaka.
Thus it became a rule that one of the Benasaka could not
marry another of the Benasaka, nor one of the Benachulu
another of the same totem. There are no beliefs, practices
nor taboos connected with the eponym, for in the first case it
was but a chance-chosen name, and had no direct reference
to its origin. Thus a member of the Benambuzhi will not
hesitate to eat goat flesh : one of the Ben-angi fears the
leopard as does one of another totem, and will kill it readily
if he gets the chance. No one worships, prays to, or offers
sacrifices to the eponym of his totem.
" Long ago, among the Ba-Kaonde, a man would forgive
certain sins if committed by one of his totem—especially
adultery and larceny of crops (never in the case of assault).
This does not hold good nowadays.
" Hospitality is still shown to a stranger of one's totem :
a hut to sleep in, food (even a fowl) and so on. If one does
not do this it brings shame {vibumvu). A common way of
finding one's totem mate is as follows :
—
Stranger in Village : '
Here is some (money or goods), please sell
me some food, for I am hungry.'
Villagers produce some food.
Stranger : '
That is poor measure for my money. It may be,
perhaps, that it is one of your own totem whom you are cheating.'
A Villager : '
What is your totem ?
'
Stranger : '
So-and-so.'
2nd Villager {sitting at some distance) : '
What's that } What did
you say your totem was ?
'
^ The language of the Kaondc
424 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
Sira}i^er : '
So-and-so.'
2nd Villager : '
Whence come you, and where were you born ?
'
Stranger : ' I am of the tribe, and was born in the village of
So-and-so, under the great chief X.'
2nd Villager : '
And you are of the ?
'
(name totem).
Stranger : '
Yes, indeed.'
2nd Villager : '
Then come and be my guest, for you are my
relation.'
" To kill a fellow totem-man is no more and no less a
crime than to kill any other.
In war a man would not spare his totem mate, even if
he knew his totem.
" Curiously enough this totemism which, though so un-
important, is so widely spread amongst this and the adjoining
Bantu tribes is not found among the neighbouring Alunda.
The Ba-Kaonde say of this lack of totemism, '
A Kalunda
can marry his niece,' implying (rightly or wrongly) much less
strict rules as to exogamy among their western neighbours." ^
§ 4. Tote7nisni of the Aweniba
The Awemba or Wemba is a Bantu tribe which inhabits,
with other Bantu tribes, the great plateau of Northern
Rhodesia, in the north-eastern part of the territory. The
social and totemic systems of the tribes inhabiting the
plateau have been investigated and described by Messrs. C.
Gouldsbury and H. Sheane, who tell us that one of them had
for many years questioned the older men as to their ideas on
the origin of totemism, but without receiving any satisfactory
answers. Some of the natives said that the creator Leza
had at the beginning, before the dispersal {ch/patiduko)
created the totems ; but the usual reply was :
" We have the
same name as the animals, and that is ajl." The institution
and ordinances of the totem clans are accepted as something
consecrated by immemorial usage, as to which it is vain and
foolish, perhaps even impious, to enquire.^
" Wemba totems fall under the broad headings of ani-
mate, such as animals, reptiles, fish, birds, and insects, and
^ F. H. Melland, op. cit. pp. 24S The Great Plateau of Northcrti
sqq. Rhodesia (London, 1911), p. 93.
"
C. Gouldsbury and H. Sheane,
CH. II TOTEMISM IN RHODESIA 425
inanimate, such as minerals and artificial objects. Plants and
vegetable products, and nature phenomena, also supply totem
names. The following list is given to show their variety :
—
Animals.—Crocodile {dena-?tg''andu, modern form ?ig'wena), elephant
{benansofn), lions {bena-nkalafuo), leopard {bena-ng'o, modern form
mbzviri), dog {bena-mbtva), goat {bena-nibushi), pig {bena-figuruwe), fish
{bena-isibi, and of certain species as bena-mpende), bees {bena-nshhmi),
birds {betia-?tgnni), mouse {bena-mpuku), tortoise {bena-nkamba), frog
{bena-fyiila), otter {bena-mbowo), duiker (bena-nsengo), ant {bena-milongo).
Minerals.—Slag-iron {bena-nibulo)
.
Artificial Objects.—Cooking-pot ibena-^nongo), drinking-bowl {bena-
nsiipa), but totems of such artificial objects are rare.
Nature Phenomena.—Rain {bena-mfula).
Plants, etc.—Porridge {bena-bwali), millet (bena-male) ; to this phratry
belong men who are chosen to be priests at Mwaruli ; castor-oil {bena-
mono), mushroom {bena-boa), plum {bena-t?tasuku), banana {bena-nkonde),
tree {betia-tniti-nsengo), grass {bena-chani).
" Some of these names are old and ancient ones given to
the animal which are nowadays not employed (compare the
Wiwa totem name for lion and Muwaya for guinea fowl as
different from the usual words used to denote them).
" It is interesting to note that many of these clan names
are common to many of the Plateau tribes, such as the
Awemba and the Amambwe, who until quite recently were
at war with each other, and it seems as if these phratries were
constituted before the separation of the various tribes. In
the olden times, possession of the same totem as some
phratries of alien tribes carried with it valuable privileges.
If a stranger captured in war could prove that he was of the
same totem as any of his captors, he would not be put to
death. Even nowadays a travelling native will prefer to stay
at the house of a man of the same totem, as he has the right
to be suitably entertained by him. In some cases certain
clans have become very numerous and powerful ;
so on Lake
Bangweolo we find the totem names of Bena-ng'ona and
Bena-ng'oma used in a general fashion to designate the two
main branches of the tribe, and almost what we might term
tribal totems. The same word bena—' the masters, or
owners of ' —^is used not only to prefix totems, but also to
prefix the name of the locality, so the Bena-Luwumbu or
Bena-ng'umbo are territorial terms adopted by the Bisa
426 TOTEMISM IN Ah'RICA RK. v
dwellers in that region, and not totemistic. Among the
Awiwa there is no special reluctance to give their totem names
except that of the chief, which is often noticed when ques-
tioning Awemba and Walungu. Among the Awiwa the
totem descended on the father's side, but among the Awemba
the maternal totem was the greater of the two.
" Following the law of exogamy, no sexual intercourse is
allowed among members of the same totem, for which crime
the olden time punishment was death by burning. But
whether this practice originated from natural horror of incest
or from definite rules of exogamy or of totemism is hard
to say. . . .
" When a member of the family dies, when burying him
they turn his face to the quarter from which the original
founder of the clan is supposed to have come ;
this place is
called Chipanduko (the place of the dispersal of the clans).
The head itself, how-ever, wall be always turned facing the
east. Among the Awemba, certain totems are considered
higher than others ; for instance, a man who is Mwenamfula
(rain totem) is considered to be of good lineage and respected
accordingly.
" Unfortunately, every year these survivals of totemism
are becoming fainter, especially amongst the Awemba. There
is a tradition among the Awiwa that their ancestors would
not eat or kill these animals, and that men of the Simwanza
and Siwale (bird totems) would formerly release these birds if
found in snares, and would not eat them. But nowadays the
totem animal is in no way respected, and is killed and eaten
like any other animal, without any feeling of remorse or any
special ceremonies of the nature of a sacrament. Among the
older men there is still a lingering feeling that there is some
mystic and indefinable affinity between them and the totem.
When a lion is heard at night roaring outside a village they
exclaim Lavwe niukanda, at its fierceness, and use the same
expression when they see a meinber of the lion totem in a
passion." ^
^ C. Gouldsbury and II. Sheane, op. cit. pp. 93 sqq.
CHAPTER III
TOTEMISM IN EAST AFRICA
§ I . Totemisni of the Elgeyo Tribe
On the eastern edge of the fertile Uasin Gishu plateau, in
the highlands of Kenya colony, lies the long narrow strip of
country—four hundred and three square miles in area-
reserved for the Elgeyo tribe. The tribe keeps cattle and
practises agriculture. In the rainy season they grow iviinbi
and maize for food, and in the dry season, when the irrigation
system is used, they plant nitania to provide beer and food.
" Each location, that is, each of the sixteen chief sections
of people in the district, contains several hamlets, each of
which is a totemic group. The totemic condition dates back
to the time when the country, now known as the Elgeyo
reserve, was reinhabited after the great desolation which drove
out the '
Kurut.' Each of the groups has associated with it
the totem adopted in those early days. Animals (elephant,
leopard, frog, etc.), birds (hawk, etc.), the moon, and thunder
are among the things then chosen.
" Each group may intermarry with such other groups only
as tradition has decreed. One of the first enquiries a father
makes as to a suitor's credentials is respecting his totem. No
marriage between parties of the same group, or of groups
between which union is forbidden, is sanctioned, as it is
firmly believed that the offspring of such a marriage would
be defective. A man or woman of a Buffalo group may take
a mate from an Elephant, Leopard, Baboon, or Rhinoceros
group. An Elgeyo of the Kaptorgog section of Rokocho
location, which is of the Rhinoceros totem, may marry one
427
428 TO THAIISM IN AFRICA BK. v
of the Moon group in Changach. The Thunder grouj) found
in Kaptoyo of Rokocho may wed the Leopards from Kobil
section of Changach, or the Moons of Nandet in Marichor.
The Hawk group at Kapsogom in Sego may intermarry with
the Buffalo group Hving in Singori in Rokocho. Each group
has several other groups from which to select mates. Though
every totem is not represented in every location, a native has
a wude choice of areas in which he may seek for a wife. The
only case where a person may marry one of his own totem is
among the Buffaloes—and even here there is the restriction
that he must choose the Buffalo he wants from another
location, not from his own community. The rule is relaxed
in this totem because its members are more numerous than
those of other groups. Full brothers must marry into different
groups. For example, if the eldest brother, a Leopard, has
married a w^oman of the Buffaloes, the next brother will
avoid that totem, and marry, perhaps, a Thunder w^oman.
" The object associated wath each totemic group does not
appear to be regarded with special reverence. All the natives
delight in killing big game. Black ants, totems of one group,
take the same risks as any others. In no case is homage of
any kind paid to the totem." ^
§ 2. Toteviism of the Etnbu Tribes
The Embu are a group of primitive tribes inhabiting the
vast southern slopes of Mount Kenya. Isolated in their
forests and gorges, they have remained in a backward state
dow^n to the present time.^
" The social organization of all the Embu tribes includes
loose and vague grouping into families or clans. This
arrangement, however, is not very conspicuous, and appears
to have little actual effect except in the matter of marriage,
union wdthin the clan being regarded as incestuous. The
clan is hereditary, the wife taking the husband's clan, as do
the children. The members are supposed to be specially
1
J. A. Massam, The Cliff J^anishing Tribes of Kenya (London,
Dwellers of Kenya (London, 1927), 1925), p. 24. The author, Major Orde
pp. 151 sqq. Mr. Massam is, or was, Browne, was Assistant Commissioner
a District Commissioner in Kenya. at various Government posts in the
^ G. St. J. Orde Browne, The area in question.
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN EAST AFRICA 429
friendly and hospitable to each other. There appears to be
a trace of what may be described as totemism : various
animals and insects being regarded as the special signs of
certain clans. This, however, does not appear to be of great
importance, and it is quite common to find a man who knows
his clan, but does not know of any special totem appropriate
to it. In Ndia certain clans appear to have different hereditary
characteristics. The Akiuru (totem, the frog) are regarded as
being able to pronounce curses of special potency, though
these can be guarded against by recourse to a doctor. The
Ithaga are the smiths, and appear to practise their art as an
hereditary profession : they are also the masters of particularly
potent curses, and in addition have influence over the rain,
being able to detect its approach and to prevent it if they
wish.
" Certain other clans have special habits or restrictions ;
for instance, the Agachiku (totem, the ostrich) will not eat
the breast of g-oats." ^
§ 3. Totejiiisni of the Laiigo
The Lango are a Nilotic tribe of Uganda, whose country
lies in the upper valley of the Nile, touching Lake Kioga
on the south. In the south the country is flat and intersected
by innumerable marshy rivers whose sluggish current is
almost blocked by the thick vegetation, while in the north
the valleys are more marked and the banks of the rivers
more definite, and there is less vegetation on the streams.
Hence the water flows more readily, and being unretarded
in its course dries up in the hot season. Elsewhere nearly
all the rivers contain some water at all times of the year,
with the result that the greatest population is to be found
along the watercourses.^
The Lango are divided into many exogamous clans,
which either are, or seem formerly to have been, totcmic.
The system has been described as follows by Mr. J. H.
Driberg in his excellent account of the tribe, among whom
^ G. St. J. Orde Browne, op. cit. Nilotic Tribe of Uganda (London,
pp. 39J-y. 1023), pp. 42 .c,7.
^
J. H. Driberg, The Lango, a
430 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA BK. V
he lived for some years in an official capacity as a member of
the Uganda Civil Service.
" Lango clans are numerous. . . . They have no very
coherent notions on the origin of a clan system, being content
with the thought that their remote ancestors founded the clans,
and that the wisdom of their ancestors is justified in their
children. The basis of the system consists of numerous tabus
or prohibitions, which vary according to the clans, and it is
probable that they were in origin totemic, though the totemism
appears to have broken down many generations ago, and at
the present time the word is hardly applicable in its accepted
significance.
" With rare exceptions, there does not appear to be any
intimate connection between the clan and the thing tabued.
In many cases, indeed, there are several tabus attached to
the one clan, which tends to dispose of any suggestion of
the idea of co-birth with the tabu. On one point, however,
there is no doubt, namely that all prohibitions are rigidly
observed.
" The exceptions which indicate a totemic origin (so
strongly, indeed, that such an origin must be ultimately pre-
mised for all the clans) are the clans Jo Ayom, Jo Akzvaich
and /(9 Akarawok me Jo Amor, which alone are named after
the object tabued. The Jo Ayoni mourn as for a man if a
patas monkey (ayoni) is killed, just as the/o Akzvaich mourn
on the death of a leopard {kzvaich), as they are said to be
danogi (their man, i.e. a member of their clan). Tradition
has it that in the old days the Akzvaich clan used to place
their babies without risk in the mouth of a leopard, and for
ever afterwards no leopard would harm them. The Jo
Akarazvok me Jo Amor (the Amor subdivision of the Akara-
zuok clan) will not kill a duiker (^w/or), and, if they accidentally
kill one, they bury it and cover its grave with leaves.
" The clans are exogamous, marriage not being permitted
into either the paternal or maternal clans, and a woman enters
the clan of her husband and conforms with its rules, the old
prohibitions of her family's clan being allowed to lapse.
Moreover, on divorce a woman observes the tabus of her late
husband's clan, and does not revert to her own, and this rule
holds good even if she contracts a second marriage into
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN EAST AFRICA 431
another clan. \\'hile observing her new husband's tabus
(though they are not binding, and it is rather a matter of
courtesy), she stiU remains constant to those of her first
husband. Children follow the father's clan even should they
accompany their mother on divorce. Illegitimate children
enter the clan of their mother's family or her husband's family
according as she is unmarried or married, but a lover who
begets a child by an unmarried girl, by marrying her secures
the child for his clan." ^
The rule prohibiting the marriage of relations is very
strict. No one may marry a girl however remotely connected
by blood on either the father's or the mother's side, that is,
all marriage is forbidden within the father's or the mother's
clan ; and even certain distant step-relationships, in which
there is no blood-tie whatever, are a bar to marriage.^
§ 4. Totemism of the Nilotic Tribes on the Upper Nile
Totemism of the Shilluk
Totemism is also found in a more or less pronounced form
among a series of Nilotic tribes whose country lies along
the course of the Upper Nile. They have all been investi-
gated by Dr. and Mrs. Seligman. It will be best to quote the
evidence of these experienced observers in their own words,
taking the tribes in geographical order, from the Shilluk in
the north to the Bongo in the south. Speaking of the Shilluk,
they say :
" There are numerous observances connected with,
animals, including some which might be called taboos, but
we did not ourselves discover any evidence of totemism,
though clan exogamy prevails. On the other hand both
Westermann and Hofmayr consider that totemism exists.
Westermann gives the following example :
—
" '
The ostrich and the crow and the crow and Deng were
split out of the gourd, all three arc three-twin brothers. Deng
went into a certain village, the ostrich went into the bush,
and the crow flew up. We were born by Deng. Akwoe (the
son of Deng) came in the time of Duwat ... he came into
the Shilluk country to the people of the king (that is to
1
J. H. Driberg, ^/i. c//. pp. iZf^sqq. "
J. H. Driberg, op. cit. p. 156.
432 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA BK. v
Fashoda). And when we became many some went to Feni-
kang Odurojo, but some remained at Fenidwai. Thus we
separated from each other. . . . That is the beginning of
(the village of) Adelfalo—the ostrich and crow are of our
family. They are not eaten by us on account of the dwalo
sickness.' ^
" Westermann states that the common ancestor to whom
members of a clan trace descent is in most cases a man, but
that some of the clans claim descent from an animal.^
Hofmayr states that the number of totems among the Shilluk
is small, and gives the following examples : ostrich, hippo-
potamus, Veranus lizard, giraffe, gu (a fish), a gourd, ayiado
(a bean), cwa (tamarind), and tuko (hearth-stone). This
seems to imply a wide distribution of particular clans. He
also cites curro (a fish), the crocodile, the crested crane, and
the knee-joint as totems of Tonga in the extreme south.
^
" As to the origin of these totems, if totems they be, we
were informed that the prohibition to eat the fish curro was
directly due to Nyakang,* who told his people to bring him
all the fish they caught in the river. Although they brought
him many fish, they kept back one, and Nyakang, who knew
this, as in dreams men are aware of things happening at a
distance, told his people, i.e. the Shilluk, that this fish must
always be unlawful food to them. Concerning the crocodile,
we were informed that all might eat it except those possessed
by Nyakang or his mother, who if they ate it would die. . . .
" Considering the data just cited we are struck by the
fact that Westermann 's example is almost in the typical
Dinka form of totemism (twin birth of totem animal and
human progenitor of clan), while the example given by
Hofmayr is from Tonga at the extreme south of the Shilluk
country, where, as we discovered, mixed marriages resulting
in a mingling of Dinka and Shilluk cults were by no means
uncommon. We are then inclined to consider that Shilluk
totemism—as far as it exists—is due to Dinka influence. In
^ C. G. and B. Z. Seligman, Pagan ^ Seligman, citing W. Hofmayr,
Tribes of the Nilotic Sudan (London, Die Schilluk. Geschichte, Religion, und
1932), pp. 41 sq , referring to Wester- Leben eines Niloten Stammes (Wien,
mann, The Shilluk People (Phila- 1925), p. 236.
delphia, 1912), pp. 178 sg. * The inythical or semi-historical
^ Westermann, op. cit. p. 127. founder of the Shilluk dynasty.
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN EAST AFRICA 433
any case, while exogamy is generally observed, the associa-
tion of particular groups of men and animals seems to make
no great emotional appeal to the Shilluk—to be but little
loaded with effect—compared with the similar feelings among
the Dinka." i
Totemism of the Dinka.—With regard to totemism
among the Dinka, the neighbours of the Shilluk upon the
south, Dr. and Mrs. Seligman tell us :
" Dinka totems are
usually animal, sometimes plant, more rarely a natural
object or process, and occasionally it seems that certain
spiritual agencies are regarded in very much the same way.
Confining ourselves to the more usual beliefs, the clans
speak of certain animals as their '
ancestors,' kwar being
the word used by the Than tribes ;
usually the kwar has
nothing to do with a man's personal name (one man, whose
name signified hyaena, had a crocodile as his kwar) but, in
the words of one of our Than informants, '
the kzvar is the
animal which is the spirit {jok) of the clan {gol).' Further,
ruai, the word ordinarily meaning '
related,' is used when
speaking of the bond between a man and his kwar, i.e.
they are ruai, '
relatives.' No man injures his kzvar animal,
but all respect it in various ways. Sometimes the kzvar
is a plant, as in some Agar and Cic clans, who treat the totem
plant with much the same reverence as is commonly shown
to the totem animal.
" Most of the Dinka clans whose kzvar is an animal
derive their origin from a man born as one of twins, his
fellow-twin being an animal of the species that is the totem
of the clan. Sometimes the association is not quite so close,
in which case the totem animal usually lays certain commands
upon one of the members of the clan, offering in return
certain privileges. Commands and privileges alike show the
close relationship existing between the animal and the man
who is traditionally looked upon as the ancestor of the clan.
Although children take their father's totem they respect
their mother's totem animal or plant, and an animal may be
avoided for several generations for this reason. Thus, a
man whose paternal grandmother had the poisonous snake
anong as totem said that if he saw anyone kill a snake of
'
Seligman, op. cit. pp. 41 sqq.
2 F
434 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. V
this species he would bury it, l:)ecause it was the totem of his
father's mother ;
the same man refrained from eating the
flesh of hippopotamus because it was the totem of his mother's
mother. Further, it is customary for both sexes to avoid
eating their spouse's totem animal, though this rule seems to
be kept more strictly by women than by men, presumably
on account of the ancestral spirits of the children. The clans
are usually designated by the name of their traditional human
ancestor ; comparatively few are spoken of by the name of
their animal, though there is a Niel (snake) clan, and even a
Niel tribe among the Danjol Dinka in the neighbourhood of
Khod Adar.
" A Ngong Nyang man gave the following account of his
conduct towards snakes of the aro species, his mother's totem
animal. If he saw one of these snakes in the forest he would
sprinkle dust on its back, for otherwise the snake might up-
braid him for lack of friendliness. If the snake were angry
and tried to bite him, dust sprinkled on its back would
propitiate it, but if he could not appease it and it bit him he
and the animal would both die. This man's children show
the same reverence for the snake as their father. If the
snake bit a man of an entirely unrelated stock the man would
die, but not the snake, for the snake and the folk of foreign
clans are not related ruai.
" The following are specific examples of beliefs con-
cerning the origin of various clans of the Ngong Nyang
tribe and of the relationship existing between their members
and their totems.
" Gol e Mariak has as totem the snake, 7iiel. Long ago
one of these snakes came into the hut of one Mariak, and
there gave birth to its young. The snake spoke to Mariak,
telling him not to hurt it or its children :
'
If you see" a man
hurt one of my children tie the mourning-band of palm-leaf
round your head.'
" Gol Akon Chang Jurkwait is so called from the name
of the son born to one Nyanajok Alerjok as one of twins, his
fellow-twin being an elephant. The boy was brought up in
the village in the usual way, but the elephant was turned loose
in the jungle.
" Gol e Luel has the crocodile for totem. Long ago Luel
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN EAST AFRICA 435
found the eggs of a crocodile ;
he put them in his canoe, and
when he reached home buried them under the floor of his
hut. One night, as the eggs were hatching, the old crocodile
came and scratched them up and then led the young to the
river. Before leaving the hut the crocodile said to Luel :
'
Do not hurt us, and we will not hurt you. Wear mourning
on your head and stomach if any of you see another man kill
one.' A man of this clan will not hesitate to swim in the
river, even at night, for the crocodiles will not hurt him.
" Gol e Yukwal e Lukab e Lerkwe has the hippopotamus
as totem.
" Gol e Yicol has the lion as totem, the founder of this
clan being the twin brother of a lion. While men of other
clans have to barricade themselves in their houses. Col of
this clan can—as he affirms—sleep in the open ;
when a
lion kills game it calls to Col at night, who goes out next
morning and finds the meat, and when Col kills a hippo-
potamus he in turn leaves some of the meat in the forest
for the lions. If Col were not of the party no one would
touch a lion's kill, for to do this would offend the lion, who
would then attack them, but if Col were with them no one
would hesitate to take the meat. If a lion suffered from a
splinter of bone or portion of gristle becoming wedged
between its teeth it might roar round the hut in which Col
lay, until he came out and removed the source of its dis-
comfort."^
Toteniism of the Nuer.—The Nuer inhabit the swamp
region on either side of the White Nile south of its junction
with the Bahr el Ghazal. Concerning the totemism of the
Nuer tribe Dr. and Mrs. Seligman inform us that "it is
nearly quarter of a century since we discovered totemism of
the twin pattern, identical with that of the Dinka, among the
Nuer, later confirmed by Mr. Jackson and Professor Evans-
Pritchard, who has written that '
certain lineages of pure
Nuer . . . ancestry are associated with groups of animals
or objects, and this association is sometimes based on the
idea of a twin birth of the ancestor of the lineage and a
particular animal or object.' Like ourselves he heard of
clans with lion and crocodile as their totems, in each case
'
Seligman, op. cit. pp. 142 sqq.
436 TO Til MISM IN AFRICA bk. v
the animal being twin with the founder of the clan, but he
states that though all the descendants of Kir, who form the
nucleus of the Jekan tribes, respect gourds because their
ancestor was enclosed in a gourd, it is possible that they were
originally Dinka, since they are not recognised as being of the
same origin as the bulk of the Nuer clans. This applies
equally to the Gaawar, the descendants of War, who respect
the nytwt tree and the fish nyiwar because when their
ancestor came down from heaven he held a branch of the
tree in his hand and w^as accompanied by the fish. Now all
this, though it w^ould equally apply to the Dinka—and we
may add that totem animals have spirit names just as among
the Dinka—does not seem to us necessarily to imply Dinka
origin, for we consider that the similarity is best explained by
the origin of the tw^o peoples from a common stem or stock.
" The Leng sub-clan stand in the same relation to the
lion as do the Dinka of the Gol e Yicol clan of the Ngong
Nyang tribe. Not only do they share their *
kill,' but much
the same rules of justice are applied to lions as to man. A
man of this clan killed a lion ; afterwards a lion took some
twenty head from his herd. It w^as decided not to hunt the
beast, since the latter was within its rights, but tw^enty cattle
were exacted from the man who had killed the lion, a sacrifice
was made, and the affair ended. An instance is cited of a
man who killed a lion in defence of his cattle. '
He had no
sense at all,' said Professor Evans-Pritchard's informant.
'
When he came home he bent his fingers like claws and
behaved as though he wanted to eat people.' A sheep was
quickly sacrificed to the lions, and all was well.
" Other instances conform less to totemic type, just as
among the Dinka. Thus the Bui respect the kac tree, because
their miracle-working ancestor used to sit under it, and the
same tree is, we believe, respected by the Jidiet clan because
their ancestors were killed wath clubs made of its wood.
Men of the Juak clan reverence the river (they originated
near the river Gwol and their honorific clan name is Gat
Gwol). When a man of this clan wants to cross the river he
will pull a bead off his necklace or other ornament and throw
it into the w^ater, saying :
'
Grandfather, take this, let me
cross without harm.' A married woman of this clan will not
CH. Ill TOTEMISM IN EAST AFRICA 437
cross a stream naked, but with her yet (petticoat) or yoah
(fringed garment) on. Should she forget and step into the
water naked she will go back, pull off a strip of her yoah,
and throw it into the river, saying :
'
Grandfather, take this,
I did not purposely offend you.' " ^
Toteniisni of the Bari.—The territory of the Bari-speaking
tribes lies to the south of the Dinka country, embracing both
banks of the river. " The Bari are divided into a number of
exogamous clans, called dunget (pi. dungesi) with male
descent ; there are certain prohibitions, for the most part
connected with animals or food, which each clan should
observe. There are no clan marks for men or women, but
the ears of sheep and goats are cut or notched conventionally
to indicate the clan of their owner. The food avoidances of
the Bari are far from simple, and although it is unlikely that
all are clan prohibitions, some certainly are. . . .
" The Dung clan refuse to eat hartebeeste and giraffe ;
no reason is given, and it is said that the younger generation
pay little attention to this prohibition.
" The Kamyak clan refuse to hunt or kill elephant, whom
they call brothers, nor will elephants damage Kamyak
cultivation. The lion is also called a brother and may not
be killed ; if a lion takes a Kamyak cow that lion is almost
certain to die shortly for not observing the clan prohibition.
" The Rito clan refuse to eat elephant and fig, lest they
be afflicted with disease.
" The Lokuamiro clan do not kill the lion, and call it
brother ; no lion will touch a clansman or his property." ^
Toteniisni of the Lotuko. —The Lotuko-speaking tribes
occupy an area on the east bank of the Nile east of the Bari
and north of the Acholi.
" The clans of the Tarangole group with their totem
animals are as follows :
—
Igago, with its sub-clans Kidongi, Marabat, Lejong, Katang, and
possibly some others (all having arisen as divisions within Igago) having
the crocodile as totem.
Lowudo, namalong, a monkey.
Lomini, the elephant.
Lomia, manga, the winged white ant.
Idjogok, ainnnu, a snake. . . .
^ Seligman. op. cit. pp. 212 sq. "
Scligniim, op. cit. pp. 244 sq.
43H TOTEMISM IN AFRICA rk. v
" Descent is j^atrilineal, and the clans are exo^anujus; thus
Igago, Lowudo, Lomia, and Lomini clans may all inter-
marry, but Kidongi, Marabat, Lcjong, and Katang, are
regarded as divisions that have split from Igago and so do
not intermarry with each other or with Igago.
" There is no objection to marrying into the mother's
clan, so long as the relationship is not too close. Several such
marriages are recorded in our genealogies. We arc not
prepared to define the expression '
too close '
precisely. It is,
however, certain that a man may not marry the daughter of
his mother's sister."
Sympathy is supposed to exist between men and their
clan animals, into which they are transformed at death. " As
regards the change, the usual idea is that the animal which
was the dead man is at first small, e.g. in the case of the
Igago clan, whose members become crocodiles, tends to
linger near the dwellings of the living. Later, it increases in
size, and takes to the water, but often not before the ibzvoni
(medicine man) has treated it. So when a Lomini man dies,
a herd will come and take with them the new elephant, while
a troup of monkeys will fetch away the new monkey that was
a Lowudo." ^
Toteuiisvi of the Bongo.—The Bongo are a group of tribes
inhabiting a territory on the Bahr el Ghazal or Blue Nile.
" Each tribe {kohu) is divided into a number of patrilineal
exogamous totemic clans, moreover a man may not marry a
woman of his mother's clan. In some tribes certain clans
appear to be more closely connected than others and will
not intermarry, but two clans having the same totem are not
necessarily debarred from marriage. The Bongo deny that
they pass at death into their clan animal, and the main feature
of their totemism appears to be a taboo on eating the clan
animal." ^
^ Scligman, op. cit. pp. 310 j^. " Seligman, op. cit. p. 466.
CHAPTER IV
TOTEMISM IN UGANDA
The Protectorate of Uganda may on account of its geo-
graphical position be called the Heart of Central Africa. It
is inhabited by many different tribes, most of them of the
Bantu stock, who are divided into totemic and exogamous
clans. The totemism of some of the principal of these tribes
has already been described by me in Totemism and Exogamy
}
My principal authority was my friend, the late Canon John
Roscoe, who furnished me with a good deal of unpublished
information, much of which he later published in his book,
The Northern Bantu (Cambridge, 191 5). Afterwards, in the
years 191 9 and 1920, through the generosity of the late
Sir Peter Mackie, my friend was able to return to Uganda,
and to visit and describe a number of tribes which he had not
dealt with before. In what follows I shall endeavour to
report the discoveries which he made in this his last expedi-
tion to the country which he knew so well, and in which he
had spent the best years of his life.
Totemism of the Basabei. —On the north and north-
eastern slopes of Mount Elgon there is to be found a semi-
pastoral tribe, divided into two sections, the Basabei and
the Bambei.
" The Basabei said that at first their tribe was composed
of three clans :
—
1. Gibisisi, who avoided dogs {enibwd).
2. Goboro, who avoided a kind of mushroom {butiko).
3. Kyefnwehe, who avoided all kinds of vegetables.
" The founders of these clans were said to have come into
^ Totemism and Exogatny, ii. 451 sqt/.
439
440 TOTEMISM IN A I' RICA rk. v
the country with a cow and a calf and a bride named Yoboro.
" The tribe has now two main divisions, Basabei and
Bambei, and the clans are numerous, though the tribe is
numerically small, not amounting to more than several
hundreds. Each clan has its own totem, which was, how-
ever, known only to a few of the principal members, who
could not be induced to divulge it. The clans were all exo-
gamous, and, with the exception of a few dwellers near
rivers, none of them would eat fish." ^
Totemism of the Bahama.—" On one of the plateaux of
Mount Elgon people w^ere found who were called the Bakama,
and who w^ere regarded as a clan of the Sabei tribe. On in-
vestigation these were found to be one of the agricultural or
artisan clans of Kitara,^ who came to Mount Elgon from
Buruli about the time Kamrasi reigned in Kitara, and who
took the name Bakama because of their allegiance to the
Mukama of Kitara. Their totems were nkinia, the black-
faced monkey, and kisanki, the grass used for thatching
houses ;
and, as they understood smelting and general iron-
work, they were important additions to the Sabei tribe, whose
customs they to a large extent adopted." ^
Totemisvi of the Bakonfo.—The Bakonjo were a small
tribe inhabiting the eastern slopes of Mount Ruwenzori, a
lofty mountain in the south-western part of Uganda, situated
between Lake Albert on the north and Lake Edward on
the south. The tribe seemed to be native to that region and
numbered only a few hundreds.
" They were a totemic tribe, divided into a number of
clans which followed the usual custom of clan exogamy.
There is little doubt that each clan had a secondary as well
as a primary totem, but during the short visit of the expedi-
tion to that region, it was not possible to discover it. The
names of the clans with their primary totems were
—
Baswaga, totem njoju, elephant.
Ahera, ,, vgabi, antelope.
Abaswi, ,, ekisuba, heron.
Abakira, ,, vipiiuu, pig.
•^
J. Roscoe, The Bagesu mid other Bakitara or Banyoro tribe in the west
Tribes of the Uganda Protectorate of Uganda.
(Cambridge, 1924), p. 52.
^ Kitara is the country of the large ^
J. Roscoe, op. cit. p. 83.
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN UGANDA 441
Abahambo, ,, nseri, crocodile.
Abasukari, ,, inbogo, buffalo." *•
Totemism of the Bambwa.—The Bambwa were a moun-
tain tribe living on the western slopes of the Ruwenzori range.
They were a turbulent people and were never completely
subdued, though in the past they were regarded as free-men
under the king of Kitara.
" Neighbouring tribes declared that the Bambwa were
cannibals ; and though the people themselves denied this,
the evidence pointed to the truth of the assertion. In fact
when I visited the western slopes of the mountain some
twenty-two years ago, I found them actually using human
flesh. . . .
" The tribe was divided into a number of totemic clans
which in most cases seemed to use the name of their totem
as the name of their clan :
—
I.
442 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
Toteviisni of the Bakyiga.—The Bakyiga occupy the
southern part of the Ruwenzori range of mountains, bordering
on Lake Edward.
" I managed to obtain the names of some forty-eight clans,
but only in a few cases could I find out their totems, though
there was every reason to believe that each clan had one."
Among the clans were
—
1
.
Basige (totem, entc ftgobc, a cow with short straight horns. If
such a cow was born in a man's own kraal, his people might drink
its milk and eat its flesh, but if it was born anywhere else they had to
avoid it).
2. Abageyho (totem, epu, meaning uncertain, possibly a kind of
antelope).*•
Of the remaining forty-six clans Canon Roscoe gives the
native names but without the English equivalents, which he could not
ascertain.
Toteniisni of the Bahirna or Banyankole. —The Bahima
or Banyankole are a pastoral tribe inhabiting the district of
Ankole, situated in the extreme south of Uganda, and to the
west of Lake Victoria Nyanza. They have a system of
totemism which has been already described on Canon
Roscoe's authority in Toteniisni and Exogamy} But on his
last expedition to their country Canon Roscoe discovered
some further details concerning it, which I will here subjoin
in his own words.
" The marriage customs of the pastoral people of Ankole
differed from those of many of the surrounding tribes in that
they were not entirely exogamous. They had no rule to
prevent members of different subsections of the same great
clan from intermarrying. A man might marry a woman
whose primary totem was the same as his own, provided that
her second, or even a third totem differed. Thus the royal
clan, Abahinda, had as totem nkima, a monkey with a black
face {colobus ?) and millet (du/o) uncooked and unhusked.
They might not marry into divisions of the clan which re-
tained only these two totems, but they might marry into such
divisions as the Abasonga which had a third totem, kozi, a
black cow. The members of the three great clans of the
tribe, the Abahinda, Abasambo and Abagahe, might inter-
marry without further enquiry, but within the clans marriage
^
J. Roscoe, op. cit. p. 164. - Vol. ii. pp. 532 sqq.
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN UGANDA 443
between members of the subdivisions was forbidden unless
they differed in at least one totem." ^
Toteniisni of the Bakitara or Banyoro.—The Bakitara
or Banyoro are one of the largest tribes of Uganda. Their
country lies in the western part of the Protectorate. Of their
totemic system I have given some account in Totcniisjn (Utd
Exogamy,"^ in great measure from private information fur-
nished me by my friend Canon John Roscoe. Since then
Canon Roscoe revisited the tribe for the last time during his
expedition of 1919-1920. He spent a considerable time
investigating the social structure and religious institutions of
the people with the personal aid of the king, who furnished
him wuth much valuable information. At the risk of re-
peating some details that have been given in my earlier work,
I W'ill here subjoin Canon Roscoe's latest and fullest exposi-
tion of the totemic system of the Bakitara.
" The people of Kitara belong to two distinct races, but
by intermarriage an intermediate group was formed and the
lines of demarcation between the three groups have become
more and more vague and are rapidly disappearing. This
was the result of a policy, adopted, it is said, by a king who
ruled not many generations ago, by which certain restrictions
on intermarriage were removed, and some of the more pro-
gressive men of the agricultural class or serfs w^ere raised to
the rank of free-men and permitted to marry w^omen of the
pastoral clans.
" The two classes of which the nation was originally com-
posed were {a) the Bahnma, or pastoral cow-men, who in-
vaded the country and conquered (<f) the Bahera, agricultural
people and artisans, who were regarded as serfs. The third
group, which came into being later, was composed of (ti) the
Banyoro, or free-men, the wealthy and important members
of class (r), who had been raised from serfdom and might
marry women from {a), the pastoral people, (f) the serfs, or
{F) their own class, so long as they did not marry women of
their own totemic clans. . . .
" The Bakitara are a totemic nation, divided into clans
numbering over one hundred. They can give no account
^
J. Roscoe, The Banyankole (Cambridge, 1923). j). 119,
- Vol. ii. pp. 513 sqq.
444 TOTEMISM J.\ Ah'RICA
of the origin of their totems, though one or two men say that
their fathers warned them to avoid some particular kind of
food which became taboo and their totem. The greatest use
of the totemic system seems to be for defining consanguinity
in connection with marriage regulations. This is by no means
the only benefit of such a scheme of differentiation, for the
system serves innumerable social and economic uses in daily
Hfe.
" With the existence of the three classes, we get three
distinct groups of totems, one belonging to class (a), the
pastoral people, one to class (b), showing the mixture or union
of classes {a) and (^), and one to class {c), the agricultural
people. Some of the clans, doubtless those of the pure
pastoral people {a), have totems which relate to cattle alone ;
the totems of others are connected with both cows and vege-
tables and are evidently those of men who have sprung from
mixed marriages ;
while the agricultural class naturally have
totems connected with the field. Some of the pastoral clans
have totems w^hich pertain to cow^s at certain times, after
which time, w^hen the conditions change, the animal is no
longer a totem. For example, when a cow has drunk salt
water she is a totem to a certain clan during that day, and
her milk may not be drunk by any member of that clan ;
but
the next day the cow is no longer a totem and her milk may
be drunk ;
again, for five days after a cow^ has mated, she
is a totem to certain clans who may not drink milk from her
nor eat the meat should she be killed, but after the five days
that cow ceases to be a totem. Other clans have a part of a
cow as their totem ;
some must avoid the tongue, others may
not touch the heart, while others again refrain from eating
the intestines. In each of these instances only this part of
the animal is taboo ; they may eat freely from any other part
and they may drink the milk.
" The royal family have as their principal totem the bush-
buck ingabi), which is somewhat difficult to understand, for
we should have expected a cow. It is possible that the present
dynasty, w^hich is said to have come over the Nile from
Bukedi, w^as originally not of pure pastoral stock, or, at any
rate, had not been so strict in adhering to pastoral customs.
It is also rather peculiar that there are many other clans, not
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN UGANDA 445
royal, which have the bush-buck as their totem. Possibly
these were in existence in the country before the arrival of the
present royal family. There are also many branches of the
royal clan, but it is difficult to discover any reason for their
splitting off.
" Though most if not all clans have a second totem, few
of them pay much attention to it ; it is seldom named, and,
so far as I can discover, is only nientioned when it is necessary
to distinguish between persons having the same primary
totem. Owing to the slight importance of the secondary
totem, which, in many cases, is not generally known, it has
been impossible to secure as much information concerning the
clans as is desirable.
Totems of Group (A), the Pastoral People
Name of Clan
1. Babito (royal clan)
2. Bachaki .
3. Abangamwoyo
4. Abachvva
5. Abagweri
6. Abagumba
7. Ababambora
8. Abandikasa
9. Abahangwe
10. Abategwa
11. Abachwera
12. Abanyakwa
13. Abalebyeki
14. Abanyuagi
15. Ababoro .
16. Abakwonga
17. Abadwalo
18. Abajagara
19. Abagomba
20. Abamori .
21. Abagorongwa
22. Abaziraija
23. Abapasisa
24. Abagaya .
Ngabi, bush-buck. Maleghyo, rain
water from the roof of a house.
Ngabi, bush-buck. Maleghyo, rain
water from a house (subsection of
Babito).
Same totems, also a subsection ot Bal)ito.
Ngabi, bush-buck. Ngobe, cow with
short straight horns.
Ngabi, bush-buck.
Koroko, hippopotamus,
buck.
Njrabi, bush-
446 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA BK. V
Totems of Group (A), the Pastoral People—continued
Name of Clan
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN UGANDA 447~
Totems of Group (B), the Free-men
Name of Clan
1. Abanyonza
2. Abalanzi .
3. Abalisa .
4. Abasumbi
5. Abagahe .
6. Abafunjo
7. Ababworo
8. Abalebeki
9. Abagimu
10. Abairuntu
1 1
.
Abanyama
12. Abaitira .
13. Abarega .
14. Abarigira
15. Abangali or Abagabo
16. Abakwonga
17. Abayangwe
18. Abagweju
19. Abatongo
20. Abasengya
21. Abakimbiri
22. Abysima .
23. Abaraha .
24. Abalageya
Etima, red and black cow. Ngobe, cow
with short straight horns.
Etima and Ngobe.
Etima, red and black cow. Maleghyo,
rain water from the roofs of houses.
Etimba, red and black cow. Ngobe, cow
with short straight horns.
Etimba, red and black cow.
Munyere, cow of some particular colour.
Ngobe, cow with short straight horns.
Cow marked red and white. Maleghyo,
rain water from the houses.
Same totems.
Mulara, black cow with white stripes.
Mjojo, the elephant.
Mutima, heart of animals.
Eseleke, cow of a particular colour.
Isereke, woman who is a stranger and
is nursing a female child.
Maleghyo, rain water from houses.
The same.
Nkira, tail-less cow.
Ngabi, bush-buck.
Nkondo, grey monkey.
monkey.
A house burned down.
avoided and no vessel
place used.
Amara, the stomach of animals.
Ngabi, bush-buck. Maleghyo, rain
water from houses.
Isereke, woman nursing a female child.
Ngabi, bush-buck.
Akanyamasole, wagtail.
Nlegeya, bird.
Nkobe, large
The place
from such
448 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA BK. V
Totems of Group (C), the Serfs
Name of Clan Totems
1. Abafumambogo
2. Abayaga .
3. Abahinda
4. Abasambo
5. Aberi
6. Abasuli .
7. Abalaha .
8. Abasonga
9. Abahango
10. Abakami
1 1. Abasogo .
12. Abagombi
13. Abachubo
14. Ababopi .
15. Abazazi
16. Abango .
17. Abaregeya
18. Abaisanza
19. Ababiiro .
20. Abanana
21. Abaduka
22. Abahenga
23. Abaho
24. Abanyampaka
25. Abanyonza
26. Abagimu
27. Abahembo
28. Abasengya
29. Abagere .
30. Ababoro .
31. Abasanza
32. Abakimbiri
33. Abasihiri
Abazaza nedongo, twins. Nsenene,
grasshopper. Mbogo, black cow.
Kanyamukonge, bird. A fly. Millet.
Nkonde, monkey.
Obutweke, girl who has gone wrong.
Kaibo-hasa, empty basket.
Enyangi, bird.
Mbuzi, goat.
Akatengetenge (?).
Nesenene, grasshopper.
Akamyu, hare.
Akaibo batera omutwe, basket put on the
head.
Biweju, sugar-cane.
Echu, kind of fish.
Ekigangoro, centipede.
Echu, kind of fish. Mamba, lung fish.
Akabaimbira, skin of leopards. These
came from Abasingo, and separated
because of a quarrel over a skin.
Njobi, monkey. Musokisoki, bird.
Epo, kind of antelope.
Ndaha, guinea fowl.
The old skin of a drum.
Kagondo, small black water bird.
Kalozi, fungus growing on trees.
Kagondo, small black water bird.
Nyonza, bird. Kaibo hasa, empty basket.
Mpulu, spotted cow. Maleghyo, rain
water from houses.
Kaibo-hasa, empty basket.
Lugara, a wooden spoon.
Njaza, an antelope.
Mutima, heart of animals. Kaibo-hasa,
empty basket.
Maleghyo, rain water from houses.
Bumpa, potters' clay. Grain left in the
field all night at harvest.
Yam." 1
^
J. Roscoe, The Bakitara or Banyoro (Cambridge, 1923), pp. 12 sqq.
CH. IV TOTEMISM IN UGANDA 449
'
' Among both the pastoral and agricultural tribes of Kitara,
with the exception of the royal family, clan exogamy was
enforced, and it was a criminal offence for a couple who be-
longed to the same clan to form an alliance. The guilty pair
would be condemned by all the members of their clan, with
the complete assent of their respective parents.
" Blood relationship was also carefully considered, for a
man might not marry into the clan of his parents or of his
grandparents, though he might marry into the clan from
which any of his grandparents had come. The totem was
the chief guide as to relationships." ^
Totemism of the Baganda.—^The Baganda, the principal
tribe of Uganda, to which they have given their name, have a
complete system of totemic and exogamous clans. I give an
account of the system in Tote^nisni and Exogamy,'^ mainly
from private information furnished to me by my friend Canon
John Roscoe. That account has since been substantially re-
peated by him in his book The Baganda^ to which I would
refer the reader for a comparison with my statement of the
facts.
^
J. Roscoe, op. cit. p. 264. an Account of their Native Customs
^ Vol. ii. pp. 463-513. and Beliefs (London, 191 1), pp. 133-
* Rev. J. Roscoe, The Baganda, 185.
2 G
CHAPTER V
TOTEMISM IN KIZIBA
KlZlBA is a district in Tanganyika, situated on the west shore
of Lake Victoria Nyanza, to the south of Ruanda. The
natives of the district belong to two distinct stocks, the Bairu,
the aboriginal inhabitants, and the Bahima, who are immi-
grants from the north. But the Bahima form only a small
percentage of the population.
The royal family bears the name of Bahinda. There are
besides twenty-seven clans. All members belonging to a clan
have the same totem (muzird), which is regularly some edible
animal. But the totem may also be some other tabooed
object. If anyone injures his totem animal or eats the food
forbidden to his clan, he suffers from an irruption of the skin
on the arms and hands.
Not only does a human being stand in a peculiar relation
to his or her totem, but the totem itself stands in a like
peculiar relation to other objects. For example on the wood
of a certain totem tree (muziro nyama) no flesh may be
cooked, or again with a stick of another kind of tree (nkoni
etarer' ofuunyanyd) a man may not strike his sister, and simi-
larly cattle may not be struck with the wood of another totem
tree {nkoni etaterente).
The natives can tell in each case why a certain clan may
not eat the flesh of a particular species of animal. Generally
the reason assigned is that an animal or animals of that species
have rendered some service to the ancestors of the clan.
Members of the same clan (ruganda) may not intermarry.
The children, both male and female, belong to the clan of
their father.
450
CH. V TOTEMISM IN KIZIBA 451
The royal family stand in a special totemic relationship
to snakes. The 7ikoronkinia snake is the totem of the males,
and the nipiri snake is the totem of the female members of
the house. When a male member of a royal family dies his
ghost or spirit passes out from his head through the wall of
the hut, and enters into the body of his totem snake {nkoron-
kivid). So also when a princess dies her ghost or spirit enters
into the body of her totem snake {nipiri).^
^ H. Rehse, Kiziba Land und Leute (Stuttgart, 1910), pp. 84 sqq.
CHAPTER VI
TOTEMISM OF THE BARUNDI
Urundi is a district of Tanganyika that lies south of Ruanda,
between Lake Victoria Nyanza on the north-east, and Lake
Tanganyika on the south-west. The population is composed
of three elements : firstly, the Bahutu, an agricultural Bantu
people ; secondly, the Batussi, a pastoral Hamitic people ;
and thirdly the Batwa, a hunter and forest pigmy people.
The Batwa are the oldest element in the population. The
Bahutu came from the east, destroying the forests in their
advance. The Batussi have adopted the Bantu language.^
The totemic clan is the basis of the social organisation of
Urundi, as in Ruanda, Karagwe, Kiziba, Ankole, and else-
where. Many of the clan names of the Barundi are found in
Ruanda, Chyoro (Kitara), and Ankole. Many of the clan-
names are common to the Batussi and Bahutu ; some are
common to the Batwa.
The chief features of the totemic system common to all the
clans are : the patriarchal character of its structure ; the
exogamy of the clans ; the totemic nature of the clans and
the associated taboos and restrictions, especially food taboos,
imposed upon their members. The communism of the clan
is another of its characteristics.
Descent of the clan is in the paternal line, and every child
belongs from birth to the clan of its father. Strict exogamy
is the rule. Marriages between members of the same clan
are forbidden, and a clan member may take a wife only
from another clan. Moreover it seems that the members of
a clan are not free to marry members of any other clans, but
^ H. Meyer, Die Barundi (Leipzig, 1916), pp. 6 sq.
452
CH. VI TOTEAllsM OF THE BARUNDI 453
that they are restricted in their choice to a certain number of
clans. The royal clan (the Baganwa) are not strictly exo-
gamous. In Urundi, as in Ruanda, the king may or must
marry his own sister or daughter.
Several clans have the same totem : probably these
formed originally a single clan, which was broken up and
dispersed.
The totem is an object of respect, if only in the negative
sense that everything connected with it must be strictly
avoided by the members of the clan. In the great majority
of cases the totems are animals or parts of animals : much
less often they are artificial objects like baskets or cushions ;
still less frequently they are plants or parts of plants. They
have also split totems, for example the liver, heart, or entrails
of an animal. They believe that the soul of a dead clansman
passes into his totem animal.
The totem is the object of shy avoidance : to injure or kill
the totem animal is an offence that can be expiated only with
difficulty. It is forbidden to eat its flesh or blood or to drink
its milk. Out of these taboos has been developed the present
strong belief that the flesh, blood, and milk of a totem animal
are unclean and will harm the clan member who partakes of
them. This pollution can only be expiated by elaborate cere-
monies. A breach of the totem taboo, especially of the food
restriction often results in the sickness of the transgressor or
even in his death. Respect for the totem leads members of a
clan to avoid all contact with the members of other clans who
eat the totemic animal. The totemic restrictions on food are
not binding upon children, though they are so upon women.
In the inner organisation and life of the clan the strong
feeling of solidarity of its members finds expression in a far-
reaching communal system. The clan community is ruled
by an elected elder or headman, and the land is the common
property of the clan.
The feudal organisation of the country under the king
tends to break up and destroy the social and economic or-
ganisation of the totemic clans, which, however, long retain
their clan names, their totems, and their old customs. One
element of the ancient social organisation of the totemic
clans is retained under the new political order, namely, the
454 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA p,k. v
custom of blood revenge, which is still the strongest safe-
guard of the individual, though public and private security
has increased under the strong rule of the feudal lords.
Under the rule of the kings the blood revenge of the clan is
exercised in secret, no longer openly as in former times.
^
' H. Meyer, op. cit. pp. 98 sqq.
CHAPTER VII
TOTEMISM IN NORTHERN NIGERIA
Totemism of the Bachama and Mbula.—Totemism is widely
diffused among the tribes of Northern Nigeria, and it is found
in the form both of clan totems and individual or personal
totems. On this subject Mr. C. K. Meek tells us : "A
feature of the social and religious life of the Bachama (as also
of the Mbula, Kanakuru and Longuda tribes) is the presence
of totemic beliefs. These occur in two forms, viz. {a) a sense
of relationship between an extended family or kindred and a
species of animal, and {b) a sense of relationship between an
individual and an animal. As regards the former the totem
is transmitted in the male line, the family group being formed
on patriarchal principles : but in the latter case the totem is
transmitted by females, so that there is (or may be) a totem
kin as distinct from the family group. But not all kindreds,
nor yet all individuals, have totems. Indeed, the possession
of a totem appears to be exceptional, and there are reasons for
believing that such totemism as exists was introduced from
the Mbula tribe, a people who speak a language which is
definitely Bantoid.
" The Mbamo kindred respect the bush-cat, and . . .
carry out harvest rites at the bush-cat shrine, just as though
the bush-cat were some deity. If a Mbamo loses his way in
the bush he will call on the bush-cat to show him his way
home, in the same way as members of other tribes will call
on the sun or the Supreme Being. The Mbamo regard them-
selves as the '
children '
of the bush-cat, and believe that all
that they have in life—their food, their health and children
—
455
456 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
are the gifts of the bush-cat. If they fall sick, or if anything
goes wrong, they resort to the bush-cat shrine at Bolen ;
and one whose son has been sick for a considerable period
will hand him over permanently to the priest of the Bolen
cult. So much do they respect the flesh of the bush-cat that
it is taboo to eat the flesh of any animal bearing similar stripes.
No Mbamo, therefore, will touch the flesh of a leopard or
hyena. If any non-Mbamo had killed a bush-cat and subse-
quently touched the person of a Mbamo the body of the latter
would immediately be covered with sores, and he would have
speedily to find a '
medicine.' There is, however, no personal
association with individual bush-cats, though an enemy of
the Mbamo may charge one of their number with having, as
a bush-cat, stolen one of his chickens during the night. On
the other hand the bush-cat takes a personal interest in the
welfare of all members of the Mbamo clan. If anyone thieves
from a Mbamo the bush-cat will cry outside the thief's house,
and the members of the household will know that one of their
number had committed an offence against one of the Mbamo
group. The thief, stricken with fear, will, it is said, betake
himself forthwith to the person from whom he stole, confess
his offence and solicit his protection. The Mbamo concerned
will take him to the shrine at Bolen and say to the priest of
the cult :
'
This man stole from me : I bring him to the
bush-cat, for the bush-cat went to him.' The priest will
question the thief who will straightway confess his guilt and
offer to the priest a white cloth in recompense. This the
priest binds on to the roof of the shrine. He then takes some
cotton and passes it round the offender's head, and there the
matter ends. ... It is of interest to note that stolen goods
subsequently restored become the property of the priest and
are not returned to the complainant. The bark of the Bau-
hinia Reticulata tree is sacred to the bush-cat, and strips are
deposited beside the symbol of the cult. These strips are
issued as charms by the priest to members of the clan ;
bracelets for men and necklaces for women. The priest is
attended by a boy who, every evening, is required to light a
fire in the hut of the priest. Some of the embers are carried
to the shrine, as the bush-cat is believed to be fond of
warmth.
CH. VII TOTEMISM IN NORTHERN NIGERIA 457
" There are one or two other kindreds which have totem
animals. Thus the Ndaka of Yimburu associate themselves
with water-tortoises. But the water-tortoise does not appear
to be a totem for the whole Ndaka clan, as there is a group of
Ndaka in the Bata district which has no totem. It may be
said generally that the majority of the Bachama kindreds or
clans are non-totemic.
" Turning now to the individual relationship of a man
or woman to some animal, derived from his or her mother,
this appears to be fairly common. The general conception
is that the man and his animal counterpart are each the double
or alter ego of the other. The fortunes of the two are so
closely bound together that nothing can happen to the one
without a corresponding reaction on the other. The sickness
or death of one connotes the sickness or death of the other.
The man can influence and direct the movements of his
animal counterpart, and the latter can visit at night his human
counterpart and warn him of possible dangers. If a man
who is associated with a hippopotamus knows that his fellow-
townsmen are going to hunt hippopotami he can warn his
hippopotamus alter ego, together with other hippopotami who
are its relatives, to leave the herd that day. If a hippopo-
tamus upsets a canoe his human counterpart is fully aware
of the fact, however far away he may be. If the man is him-
self in a canoe, and his hippopotamus alter ego, or even
hippopotami who are counterparts of members of his totem-
kin, come to attack his canoe he merely orders them to be
gone, and off they go. Totemic conceptions of this character
occur among the Bura, Kilba, Kanakuru and Yungur tribes.
Among the last, for example, there is a kindred at Waltandi
which has a special association with roan antelopes. None
of the kindred, therefore, may shoot a roan antelope. Any
member of another kindred who wishes to shoot a roan ante-
lope will first present himself before one of the roan kindred
with a gift of a pot of beer and two hoes, soliciting the assist-
ance of the kindred. The person approached will then indi-
cate to the petitioner where the roans are accustomed to
graze, but he will warn the hunter that he must avoid shooting
the leader of the herd, as the leader of the herd is his own
second self. From this it appears that although all of the
458 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
roan kindred have animal counterparts not all roans have
human counterparts." ^
From the preceding account it appears that among the
Mbamo the bush-cat receives a form of worship, and has
therefore made some progress towards becoming a god.
Totemis?n of the Bata-speaking Peoples.—"Totemic ideas
do not play any significant part in the life of the Malabu.^
It was stated that the royal clan respect the crocodile, on the
ground that once upon a time a Baza maiden was, on the
day of her marriage, seized by a crocodile. The Gogen also
respect the crocodile. The Magdari, Tara and Jekin have a
special association with leopards, and this would suggest that
all these three kindreds belonged, as their tradition indicates,
to a common stock. The association is ascribed to the cir-
cumstance that an ancestress of the group bore twins, one
of which was a leopard and the other a boy. The two lived in
close association, the leopard visiting the boy at night and
bringing him a share of his quarry, and the boy feeding the
leopard when the leopard had failed to kill game. And just
as the original leopard and man were brothers so their off-
spring also became brothers, each assisting the other, and
being identified, so that any (human) of the three kindred
could turn himself into a leopard if he so desired. In later
times the association became lost because the '
medicine
'
necessary for its maintenance was destroyed in a fire." ^
We have seen that similarly among the Dinka the origin
of a totem clan is often ascribed to the twin birth of a human
being and the animal totem.
^
Totemisni of the Bura and Pabir Tribes.—Among these
people, " the clan does not coincide with the local group, for
in most village areas you find groups of several clans living
together, and where this is the case the authority, civil and
religious, is usually vested in the senior member of the senior
clan. The clan as a whole is, however, localised (in contra-
distinction to the phratry which is scattered). Descent is
patrilineal, but the sense of kinship is not confined to the clan
^ C. K. Meek, Tribal Studies in Bata-speaking people.
Northern Nigeria (London, 1931"), i.
10 sqq. ^ C. K. Meek, op. cit. i. 97.
^ The Malabu are a group of the * See above, p. 433.
CH. VII TOTEMISM IN NORTHERN NIGERIA 459
(in which the descent from a common ancestor may be
fictitious or at anyrate cannot be demonstrated), but extends
to relatives on the mother's side whose relationship can easily
be traced. Among the Bura all cousin marriage is forbidden,
but among the Pabir cross-cousin marriage is practised in the
Woviri or royal family group.
" The sense of association with a totem is vague. In some
instances the clan disclaimed any such associations, but it is
possible that in such cases a closer enquiry than I was able
to give would have revealed the totem. Thus the Gamsana
clan of the Mbeiya phratry, while stating that one of the
African mahoganies {Afzelia af7-icand) might not be burnt
by any Gamsana (if it were their children would be injured by
fire), could give no account of this taboo. Usually all the
three main characteristics of totemism could be traced, viz.
the association of an animal or tree species with the exogamous
group (clan), the belief in the sense of relationship between
the members of the clan and the animal or tree, and the re-
spect shown by the members of the clan to the animal or tree.
" In at least two instances the name of the totem was
identical with that of the social group. The Bwola phratry
respects the Ficiis platyphylla and the name for this tree in
the Bura language is Bwola. The Minta clan of the Pabir
respects the Afzelia africana tree and the Pabir name for
this tree is Minta. The members of a clan refer to the totem
animal species as their brethren, but they do not usually claim
descent from the totem (as is the case with some of the Zaria
tribes). The relationship is rather one of alliance. The
following are instances of how the relationship is said to have
arisen. The Lasama totem is the Maniba. Once upon a
time a Lasama was captured in war and was put in the stocks
to await sacrifice. In the early morning a Mamba crawled
up to him and so frightened him that he gave a lurch, which
freed his legs and he escaped. All Mambas were therefore
proclaimed to be friends of the Lasama and no Lasama may
kill or injure a Ma^nba. Mambas will not, it is said, injure a
Lasama, and any Lasama coming across the dead body of a
Mamba must bury it.
" The Mbeiya of Sakwa state that their totem is the tsala
kokwa snake. The founder of the clan was troubled because
46o TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
he was getting old and had no children. In his sleep he
dreamed that someone bade him go and dig in the ground,
and when he found the tail of a living thing he was to cut it
off, sew it up in leather, and give it to his wife ; so he dug
and came across a tail and gave it to his wife and she
bore a child and eventually had a large family. The man
wondered at the marvel, and went again to the hole and dug
deeper and found the body of the snake. And so he forbade
any of his children to kill any of that species of snake, and
if they came across its dead body they were to bury it.
" The totem of the Gauja clan is the Varanus niloticus
Any member of the clan eating it would be covered with
sores, and his body would waste away. The dead body of a
Varanus must be buried respectfully, '
its secret must not
be discovered.' An injured Varanus in the possession of any
member of another clan must be ransomed." ^
Totemism of the Muniuye and neighbouring Tribes.—" It
appeared that formerly each kindred had its sacred or taboo
animal. Thus the We-Passe avoided eating the flesh of
bush-pigs, the We Gaure of rock coney, the We Kenna of
jackal, and the We-Guda of bush-cat. Anyone breaking the
taboo would be assailed by leprosy. Little importance is
attached to these taboos nowadays, and there is no prohibi-
tion against marrying a person whose taboo animal is the
same as his own. For the rule of exogamy is only carried
out as far as second cousins, so that a We-Passe man may
marry a We-Passe woman provided she is not a first or
second cousin." ^
Totemism of the Katab.-^' Some of the Katab clans have
certain animal or plant taboos, but these do not appear to be
closely associated with the system of clan exogamy or to
play a prominent part in maintaining the sense of relationship
between the members of the clan. . .
" The Agbat clan respects the crocodile {tsang). It is their
friend and brother {nauyuk) and on it they swear oaths. An
Agbat, it is said, can play unharmed with a crocodile in the
water. If he sees its dead body, he hastily retreats, or buries it.
He will not even touch a piece of crocodile skin. If he kills a
crocodile by accident he must hurry off to the forest for some
^ C. K. Meek, op. cit. i. 14S sqq. - C. K. Meek, op. cit. i. 49S.
CH. VII TOTEMISM IN NORTHERN NIGERIA 461
special medicine ;
if he kills it by design the entire clan will,
it is believed, perish. The reason assigned for this association
is that once in ancient times the Katab were flying from their
enemies and came to an unfordable river. Crocodiles formed
a bridge for the Agbat, but swam away when the other
Katab clans tried to cross by the same means. An Agbat
can frighten a crocodile by merely calling out the name of
some other clan than his own. There does not appear to be
any belief nowadays that an Agbat, on dying, turns into a
crocodile, but it was stated that when an old Agbat man dies
his friends sing :
'
The water is all astir—the crocodile is
entering.' An Agbat woman does not cease to respect the
crocodile on her marriage, and it was said that the son of
an Agbat woman, though he takes his exogamic unit from
his father, shows respect to his mother's totem as well as to
his father's. The Agbat also, apparently, respect the leopard.
If an Agbat kills a leopard he is required by custom to perform
certain rites designed to protect him from the ghost of the
dead animal. He sends a friend or relative to a neighbouring
tribe (Kagoro) for medicine, some of which he drinks and
some of which he smears on his body. He will not eat
leopard's flesh or wear a leopard's skin. The reason now
assigned for this respect is that once in bygone days an
Agbat ate leopard's flesh and his body became covered with
boils. The Agbat do not call themselves '
Leopards,' but
they state that in battle they were always put in the van, and
as they rushed forward they shouted '
We are leopards ; we
cannot run away.'
" The Shokw'a clan respect the tatong, one of the lizard
family. The association of the tatong with the Shokwa clan
was begun, it is said, in the following w^ay. Shokwa, the
founder of the clan, was sitting alone in his house lighting a
fire. A tatong, hearing the noise, came and spoke to Shokwa,
asking who he was and w^here were his relatives. Shokwa
replied that he had no relatives, and the tatong then assured
him that God would increase his family. This prophecy
came true, and Shokwa ordered all his children to respect
the tatong for all time. And so no man of Shokwa may
injure a tatong, and if he finds one he takes it to the priestly
head of the Kuzat family who houses it in a granary, feeds it
462 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
with beniseed and finally releases it with blessings. For
the Shokwa regard the tatong as a relative, and if they find
the body of a dead tatong will cover it with earth reverently,
holding a funeral feast as they would for one of their old
men. Should a Shokwa man kill a tatong accidentally rain
would fall, even in the middle of the dry season. The most
binding oath a Shokwa can make is by the tatong. The
respect shown by the Shokwa is shared by all the Katab
clans, and any member of another clan living near Shokwa
who accidentally killed a tatong would take its body to
Shokwa for burial. The Shokwa people do not, however,
call themselves by the name of their emblem animal. On
the contrary, the tatong's name is taboo." ^
Toteniisni of the Kurama of Zaria Province.—" The
following is a list of some of the Kurama clans :
—
" (i) The Asare, with exogamous subdivisions scattered
throughout the tribe. The clan emblem is the crocodile,
which is regarded as a relative for the following reason.
One of the Har Asare tried to commit suicide by drowning
himself. A crocodile appeared in the river, and said to him :
'
You are related to us and are therefore one of us.' And so
he was transformed into a crocodile. Later, as a crocodile,
he was lying on the bank when one of his late fellow-villagers
appeared and drew an arrow on him. The crocodile said to
him :
'
Stay, for I am your brother and dwelt with you in
the village on the hill.' In this way all the Har Asare were
made aware that crocodiles were their relatives. The in-
formant was unable to say whether the crocodiles contained
the souls of living or dead Har Asare, but stated that if
accidentally they killed a baby crocodile during a fishing
drive then one of their children would die simultaneously in
the village. An Asare can play fearlessly with a crocodile.
If he inconveniences a crocodile during his fishing he will
be assailed with sickness. If he catches a young crocodile
in his net he must abandon the net and any fish he may have
netted. If he sees the corpse of a crocodile he must dig a
grave for it and bury it reverently, pushing the corpse into
the grave with sticks, for he may not touch it with his hands.
The use of crocodile's skin for any purpose is taboo, and an
^ C. K. Meek, op. cit. ii. 6 sqq.
CH. VII TOTEMISM IN NORTHERN NIGERIA 463
Asare will even avoid eating food cut up by a knife the
sheath of which had been made of crocodile's skin. An
Asare woman who is enceinte and eats crocodile's flesh will
promptly abort. The Asare do not call themselves by the
name of their emblem animal.
" (2) The Kamau are a small exogamous group entirely
localised at Garu. Their emblem is the bahawa, an animal
which they say resembles a red buffalo but is much smaller,
and is not found in the country now inhabited by the
Kurama, an indication that some at least of the Kurama
came from distant parts. . . .
"
(3) The Lisha are found (a) at the villages of Jura,
Galma, and Oroko, and (J?)
at Muda kare. Each section is
exogamous, but any man of {a) may marry any woman of
(3) and vice versa. Moreover, sections {a) and {{)) have dis-
tinct emblems, that of the former being the bahawa, that
of the latter being the red frog (okave). Each section has
its own hereditary social chief, who is the arbiter of quarrels
between members of his own subdivision. These facts would
seem to indicate that each section originally belonged to a
different clan. . . . The reason assigned for the association
wath the bahawa was as follows : some women of the Lisha
(section (a)) were out farming one day, and had left their
babies under the trees. Hunters came along and scattered
a herd of bahawa among the babies. But when the mothers
returned not a single child had been injured, and so the
bahawa were known to be their relatives. Oaths are sworn
on the bahawa, and it was said that formerly when the Lisha
lived in the country of bahawa, it was customary to cover the
dead body of a bahawa with leaves.
"
(4) The Areru are localized at Garu and Dama Kasua.
They are exogamous and appear to respect the cock {bug-
wara). It was stated that if the husband of an Areru woman
had had a cock cooked in the compound he had subsequently
to purify the place where it had been cooked by sweeping it
with the leaves of the locust-bean and shea trees. The
place would be taboo to his wife for two days. The husband,
moreover, might not sleep with his wife on the evening of the
day on which he had eaten the cock's flesh. . .
."^
1 C. K. Meek, op. cit. ii. lOO sqq.
464 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. V
Totemisfn of the Kare- Kare of Bornu Province.—" The
(Kare-Kare) tribe consists socially of a number of exogamous
divisions, each division being composed of one or more kin-
dred which are beHeved to be related. . . .
" Each of the social divisions appears to associate itself to
some extent with some species of animal, but such evidence
as I was able to obtain in the very short time spent among
the Kare-Kare showed that totemism, or what used to be
described as totemism, is now breaking down. The Dagare
division, for instance, does not appear to have any emblem at
all other than the sacred spear. The Masgabai stated that
they respected the Shamwa stork. But the Arku and Jellam
divisions (and also the villagers of Kurfa and Dalmari) made
a similar statement, and it appeared, indeed, that the Shamwa
was to some extent respected by most of the Kare-Kare. If
the Shamwa was ever a '
totem,' then the totemic grouping
was much larger than the exogamous grouping of to-day.
Similarly the leopard was stated to be taboo to at least four
of the social divisions, viz. Langawa, Deguri, Aisa, and
Sikau (between whom there is no prohibition of inter-
marriage). Incidentally, the Aisa and Langawa divisions
of the Kare-Kare gave the same reason for respecting the
leopard as was given by the Masgabai division of the Ngizim
tribe, viz. that when the wife of one of the ancestors of the
division found herself without any means of carrying her
newly-born babe a kindly leopard brought to her house a
dead gazelle, from the skin of which she was able to manu-
facture a satchel. . . .
" Descent is reckoned patrilineally, but intermarriage with
close relatives on the mother's side, e.g. first, second, or third
cousins, is against the tribal custom. The junior, but not
the senior, levirate is practised, and sons inherit, and may
marry, the widows of their fathers' and other paternal
uncles." ^
Totemism of the Ngizim of Bornu Province.—" The
social organization (of the Ngizim) resembles that of the
Kare-Kare, i.e. the tribe consists of a number of divisions
fairly well localized, each of which is exogamous and each
of which is associated (though frequently in a vague way
^ C. K. Meek, op. cit. ii. pp. 220 sqq.
CH. VII TOTEMISM IN NORTHERN NIGERIA 465
only) with some species of animal. Thus, in the vicinity of
Potiskum (Southern Ngizim) we find the following social
divisions :
—
{a) Mugunum associated with the hyena.
466 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. V
against any local resident of another division who had killed
a hyena. They would refuse to share a meal with him and
would even thrash him ; for they would consider that the
blood of the hyena was on their head and that in consequence
they might be attacked by leprosy. Hyenas in turn, they
say, respect their human relatives, and refrain from visiting
their compounds to steal.
" The Masgabai respect the leopard for the same reason
as was given in the notes on the Kare-Kare, viz. that a leopard
had provided the wife of an ancestor with a gazelle in order
that she might make a satchel in which to carry her new-born
babe. The Audassa, w^ho also respect the leopard, stated
that in former times any Audassa woman who was about to
bear a child was favoured in this way.
" The Daja appear to respect all snakes rather than any
particular species, but further enquiries might show this to
be incorrect.
" The sense of association with the emblem animal is not
always very potent, and in some cases the informants had to
think twice before they could say what their emblem animal
was. It was stated that husbands respected the emblems of
wives ; but on two occasions the husbands had first to refer
to their wives before they were able to give the names of their
wives' emblems. On the other hand, the sense of kinship
between members of the same social division is so strong that
the idea of intermarriage is totally repugnant.
" Descent is among all the Bornu tribes patrilineal. It
was stated that children of women of the same clan would
not be allowed to intermarry until at least four generations
had passed." ^
Toteniisvi of the Kanakurti of Ada>nawa Province.—
" The Kanakuru system of social organization is the counter-
part of that of the Longuda. For whereas among the latter
there is a matrilineal organization for purposes of inheritance,
residence and authority in the family, and a patrilineal
organization for certain religious purposes, the reverse is
found among the Kanakuru, who for the normal ordering of
social life follow the patriarchal rule, while in religious matters,
in particular those relating to totemism, they follow the
1 C. K. Meek, op. cit. ii. 248 sqq.
CH. VII TOTEMISM IN NORTHERN NIGERIA 467
opposite principle, the totem being handed down in the
female line.
" The patrilineal grouping is known as the mumu, the
matrilineal as the kinikinik. . . . The '>nuniu is an exo-
gamous unit, that is to say, for example, that no male of
the Kamo Reau may marry a female of the Kamo Reau.
It is also prohibited for a man to marry any close relative
of his mother's. But he may marry a distant relative of his
mother's and may thus marry a woman who has the same
totem as himself. . . .
" Property which belongs to the nnunu as a whole passes
from the head of the ^rmviu to his successor, who may be a
brother (by the same father), or a cousin, or possibly a grown-
up son. Personal property is also transmitted patrilineally
within the family group, which may coincide with the mumu or
may be smaller than the mu77iu, owing to the mumu having
more than one branch. . . .
" Turning now to the matrilineal organization which
centres primarily round the totem, heritable through the
mother, the matrilineal group is presided over by one known
as the Naya, who is regarded as the custodian of the souls of
the members of the group and whose animal counterpart is
leader of the herd of animals which are the counterparts of
the human members of the Naya's group. The totemic
grouping is not obviously exogamous, for it was stated that
a man whose mother belongs, for example, to a crocodile
totem-kin may marry a woman who also belongs to the
crocodile kin, provided the partners to the marriage are not
close blood-relatives, i.e. they are not first or second cousins.
But I was unable to obtain an instance of a marriage of this
character. ... It cannot, therefore, be definitely said that
there is no connection between totemism and exogamy among
the Kanakuru. Nevertheless the native point of view
appeared to be that there was no objection to two persons
of the same totem marrying, as only one of the two, viz. the
woman, is capable of transmitting the totem.
" Among most non-Muslim tribes of the Northern
Provinces, certain animals are taboo to certain kindreds ;
and the reason usually assigned is that those animals are
reputed to have assisted the forefathers of the kindred in
468 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. V
enabling them to escape from their enemies. In some cases no
other reason is given for the respect accorded to the animals
than that they are sacred to the religious cults. The respect
shown is due to a tradition and not to a living faith. But
among the Kanakuru, Mbula, and Bachama, and also, I
believe, among the Kilba and Bura, the sense of a mystic
relationship with some species of animal is a living religious
belief. Between the animal and the man the closest bonds
exist, and each participates in the nature and qualities of the
other, and what happens to the one happens also to the other.
If the one falls sick the other falls sick. If the one dies the
other dies. Their destinies are so interwoven that it behoves
the one to protect the other ; and the animal, therefore, acts
as the guardian of the man, and the man in his turn sees that
other men do not injure the animal. The animal may visit
him at night and give him counsel, and he in turn may give
orders to the animal. So closely are they identified that the
one may transform himself into the other. That such con-
ceptions had at one time a wider distribution than they have
to-day in Nigeria is evidenced by the common belief, even
among professing Muslims, that certain men or certain
families are able to convert themselves into a certain species
of animal. And in the language of the Hausa, all of whom
are professors of Islam, there is even a special word, viz.
rikidda, which means '
to turn into an animal.'
" When a child is born an animal of the species which is
the totem of the mother is also born, the two together being,
as it were, twin souls. As soon as the child is weaned, the
mother takes it to the Naya ; and with gifts of a goat and
hoe, beseeches the Naya, as head of the family group and
leader of the animal herd, to care well for her child. This
the Naya undertakes to do. If the child falls ill at any future
time the mother repairs at once to the Naya who enters the
sacred hut where the totem souls assemble and deposits a
calabash of grain, saying, '
Here is one of our children who is
ill. If it is you who have caused the illness, then may his
face, as a result of this offering, be changed (for the better)
by the morning.' This prayer is addressed by the Naya to
his own alter ego, the leader of the herd, who may have caused
the child's illness by injuring the child's animal counterpart
CH. VII TOTEMISM IN NORTHERN NIGERIA 469
or allowing it to be injured. If the offering has been accepted
there will be signs in the morning that the grain had been
disturbed. Similarly if a grown-up person is ill he will go to
the Naya in order to discover if the illness proceeds from his
totemic group. (Among some groups it appears that if the
corn, sprinkled with sand, remains undisturbed it is a sign
that the disease was caused by the totem, whereas if marks
are seen on the grain such as might have been made by a rat,
then it is concluded that the totem is not responsible for the
disease.) Every two or three years the totemic group
assembles to pay honour to the Naya and thank him for
having cared for their souls during the preceding period.
The Naya makes offerings of beer and pieces of the flesh of
a goat to the totemic souls, and all present partake of a
ceremonial meal of beer and food.
" The Naya is treated with the utmost respect ; for as
custodian of the totem he can injure any of the group by
causing injury to his animal counterpart. Thus if the totem
is the crocodile he can, by driving a particular crocodile into
some place from which there is no egress, cause a particular
man to die slowly of some wasting disease. An unscrupulous
Naya may, therefore, carry on a regular system of blackmail
among the members of the totemic group of which he is the
head. A Naya cannot be deposed from his office ; but it is
said that a man of more powerful soul-substance than him-
self may rob him of his herd or flock, taking the animal-souls
away at night to some distant secret place. This belief
provides an excuse for a Naya who might otherwise be
charged wuth causing excessive sickness within the group.
He may refuse to treat sick people on the ground that another
had robbed him of his authority. When he becomes old he
may voluntarily hand over the care of the totem to a brother
(by the same mother), or to a sister's son. In practice these
totemic beliefs are mainly used for the treatment of
disease. . .
." ^
Totefnism of the Jukun.—The Jukun-speaking peoples
of Nigeria occupy that part of the Benue basin which is
bounded by Abinsi to the west and Kona to the east,
Pindiga to the north, and Donga to the south. They
^ C. K. Meek, op. cit. ii. 316 sqq.
470 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
appear to have had formerly a system of totcmism, but it
has largely broken down at the present day. On this subject
Mr. Meek tells us that :
" Before proceeding to examine
the constitution of the family and household a few remarks
may be made about the totemic ideas of the Jukun. Just as
there is no clan organization, so there is no totemic organiza-
tion in any of the Jukun groups. If there ever was a totemic
organization it was bound to have broken down in the dis-
organization consequent on the clash between patrilineal and
matrilineal ideas, and we might expect at the present time
to find a plurality of totems or emblems in each family
group and great diversity of opinion as to the mode by which
the emblems are transmitted. This is what is actually found,
and though most Jukun continue to respect a large number
of animals or plants they do so in a half-hearted manner.
Many of the young people are quite ignorant of the family
taboos, and others do not hesitate to break the taboos when
they feel inclined.
" One of the Jukun kindred to which the python and a
number of other animals are sacred stated that he had no
longer any respect for the animals he had been brought up
to regard as taboo. For he had once been confronted with a
python and had killed it, and being hungry had eaten it.
" No evil results followed ;
and so he has not hesitated to
break the other taboos when opportunity occurred. ... I have
even known cases of men breaking the taboo against eating
the flesh of a crocodile, the most sacred of all Jukun animals.
Before proceeding to eat it they will safeguard themselves
by making some fictitious statement such as '
This is cow's
(or goat's) flesh.'
"^
^ C. K. Meek, A Sudanese Kingdom (London, 1931), pp. 74 sq.
CHAPTER VIII
TOTEMISM IN CENTRAL NIGERIA
The Kwotto, a tribe of Central Nigeria, have a regular
system of totemic and exogamous clans. The system has
been described as follows by Captain J. R. Wilson-Haffenden,
who spent some time among the tribe as an Administrative
Officer of the Nigerian Service.
" The Kwotto tribe is divided into a number of totem
clans, all the members of each of which regard themselves
as descended from a common ancestor. This sentiment of
common relationship is so strong that marriage within the
clan
—
i.e. of any clansman with any of his feliow-clanswomen
—is forbidden as incestuous.
" Totem descent is reckoned through males ; therefore
children belong to the clan of their father, and a person's
mother always belongs to a different clan than himself or
herself.
" But each individual, by virtue of the nature of his birth,
is regarded as possessing not only what I propose to call a
'
pattern '
or '
paternal '
soul {ekiti), but also a '
matter
'
or '
maternal '
soul (kofi). The former is derived from the
father (or, more strictly, from one of the father's paternal
ancestors). It is associated with the totem, and regarded as
normally resident in the head. The latter is derived from the
mother, and is associated with the '
matter '
of the body in
general, and the blood in particular. . .
" The totems of the Kwotto clans are all named after
different animals, mostly wild ones. For example, there are
lion, leopard, crocodile, python, and monitor clans. One
clan only, that of the goat, is named after a domestic animal.
471
472 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. V
" Each individual animal belonging to each totem species
is regarded as connected with each member of the clan
named after it by a mystic relationship, and the souls of
prominent members of each clan are believed after death to
be born again in the shape of the clan totem. Any sudden
appearance of a totem animal at night, during either a man's
w^aking or dreaining hours, is often interpreted as a warning
of the imminent death of a fellow-clansman.
" Members of a clan are addressed by their fellow-
members, and by members of other clans, by the name of
their totem animal. . . .
" No member of a totem clan may kill his totem animal,
but a member of one clan may kill the totem of another, even
if it be the clan of his wafe or mother. This is subject to the
proviso that, after killing any of the more powerful totem
animals, the slayer would have to propitiate the chief of the
clan to which the totem belonged, in order to escape the
spiritual danger to which he would otherwise become
liable. . . .
" If the members of a clan desire the death of one of their
totem animals for any reason
—
e.g. of a leopard having caused
havoc in a town or of a goat required to be killed for sacrifice—
-
they request the members of another clan to kill it for them.
At the same time they offer propitiatory sacrifices to the spirit
of the totem, pointing out that they are not killing it of malice,
but only from necessity, and, further, that they are not
killing it with their own hands. But clansmen will not
readily be persuaded of the necessity of killing their totem.
For example, if a leopard causes harm to the members of
the leopard clan, many propitiatory sacrifices would first be
offered to the totem ancestor before they would become
convinced of the necessity for killing it. Their first impulse
would be to regard the trouble as due to their lack of attention
to their ancestor, who, in consequence, had adopted an
aggressive attitude towards them
" All clans prohibit the eating of their totem, but a man
may eat the totem of another clan, even that of his wife or
mother. He would not offend the feelings of the clans-
people in question, however, by eating their totems in their
presence.
CH. VIII TOTEMISM IN CENTRAL NIGERIA 473
" A number of legends explaining the origin of these
totemic beliefs are current among the Kwottos. They are
varied, and it is doubtful whether one can look with assurance
to any one of them for an authoritative solution of the problem
which they purport to solve. But their general drift would
certainly seem to throw some light on the possible ultimate
cause to which the beliefs may be referred.
" A legend explaining the origin of the lion totem is to
the effect that, seven days after the death of the first chief
of the lion clan, persons visiting his grave saw a lion standing
on the top of it. This unusual and unexpected sight was
taken by the witnesses as proving that the chief had actually
turned into a lion on death . .
" A parallel story is told to explain the origin of the
leopard as a totem and the belief that chiefs and important
persons change into leopards when they die.
" A crocodile myth runs as follows. Many years ago,
when the Kwottos were at war with neighbouring tribes, the
inhabitants of a certain village were in danger of being
attacked and overwhelmed by superior forces of the enemy.
The latter were advancing along the path leading to the
forest, in the heart of which the village was situated. The
invaders, when they had nearly reached the village, found
the only available path blocked by a crocodile lying across it.
This cast such fear into them that they retired. Villagers
who had observed their miraculous deliverance through the
agency of the crocodile reported it to the village chief. He
then decreed that henceforward the crocodile species were to
be regarded as their friends, and were not to be killed.
Eventually, through the friendship thus established between
the crocodile and villagers, a mystical relationship grew up
between them. In time they became so closely associated
with each other that the human chiefs and elders acquired
the power of changing at death into these saurians.
" An alternative version has it that the crocodile clan
originated as follows. At Toto, which is the headquarters
of the clan, there is a river named Kunama, which contains
many crocodiles. The founder of the clan, one Ohitoto, the
first Village Head of Toto, was definitely seen by witnesses
regarded as reliable to change from human form to that of a
474 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA BK. V
crocodile on the banks of this river seven days after death.
It is noteworthy how the mystical number '
seven '
recurs
in these legends.
" An etiological myth, parallel in its essentials to the first-
mentioned story of the crocodile, is told to account for the
ability of members of the python clan to change into pythons
and for the various taboos in connection with this totem
animal—that is to say, the acceptance of the belief in the
kinship tie between the clansmen and the python is explained
as based on the circumstance that the ancestors of the human
group were saved from a perilous situation by the ancestors
of the animal group. The latter were then in gratitude con-
secrated, as it were, as blood-brothers by the humans. Later,
the mystical relationship subsisting between them gave each
the power of changing into the other.
" The legend narrated to account for the adoption of a
goat as a totem is as follows. One day a slave felt hungry,
and ate a portion of his master's yams. On the return of the
owner he endeavoured to avoid the punishment which his
irate master was about to inflict on him by making out that
a goat close by, and not he himself, had eaten them. At this
juncture the goat obligingly came up and ate the remains of
the yams which the slave had left, thus proving to the satis-
faction of the master that the slave was innocent. This
kindness on the part of the goat caused the slave to set up
the goat as his totem in gratitude for services rendered.
Although this totem, which is the only one consisting of a
domestic animal, was thus originally adopted by a slave
—
presumably a member of another tribe captured in war—
-
the majority of the goat clan at the present day, it is pointed
out, are regarded as being as pure Kwottos as the members
of other clans." ^
Among the Shulabwe (and presumably the Kwottos)
" the most favoured type of marriage is that of patrilineal
cross-cousins {i.e. of a man or woman with his or her father's
sister's child). Next in favour comes marriage between
patrilineal ortho-cousins (i.e. of a man or woman with his or
her father's brother's child). That form of cross-cousin
^
J. R. Wilson-HafFenden, The Red Men of Nigeria (London. 1930),
pp. \SO sqq.
CH. VIII TOTEMISM IN CENTRAL NIGERIA 475
marriage by which a man marries the daughter of his mother's
brother, although not forbidden, is definitely looked on with
disfavour. For it tends to destroy the solidarity of the patri-
lineal group, which marriage with the daughter of the father's
sister or father's brother tends, on the other hand, to cement." ^
^
J. R. Wilson-Haffenden, op. cit. p. 107
CHAPTER IX
TOTEMISM IN SOUTHERN NIGERIA
On the subject of totemism in Southern Nigeria Mr. P. A.
Talbot, who in his official capacity as Resident has lived long
in the country and knows the people well, tells us that
" there are traces of totemism in nearly all tribes, though in
some more than others, and it is possible that long ago a
real totemic system obtained, and that most men w^ere
divided into totemic clans or classes, but the people have
now outgrown the beliefs, mainly infantile, connected with
such ideas of plants and animals."^ However, true totemism
appears to linger in a few^ isolated cases.
Thus among the Ekiti, a sub-tribe of the Yoruba people
and neighbours of the Edo, families have to observe a toteinic
taboo {Orile) tow^ards certain animals. For example, those
of the Efifan Orile cannot eat buffalo, while those of the
Agbourin (harnessed antelope), Edun (monkey), and Ekkun
(leopard) Orile are not allowed to touch the flesh of the
animals after which the family or clan is named."
" More traces of totemism are to be found perhaps
among the Edo, especially the Bini branch, than any other
Southern Nigerian tribe. Each family has several tabus
connected with it, generally consisting of animals or vegetables,
of which they must on no account partake ; the prohibition
descends from the father to the children. Even here, how-
ever, it seems doubtful whether true totemism is much con-
cerned."^ Of Bini totemism I have given some account in
1 P. A. Talbot, The Peoples of ^ P. A. Talbot, op. cit. ii. 256.
Southern Nigeria (London, 1926), ii.
252. ^ P. A. Talbot, op. cit. ii. 257.
476
CH. IX rOTEMISM IN SOUTHERN NIGERIA 477
Toteniisni and Exogamy based on manuscript materials
kindly furnished by Mr. N. W. Thomas, Government
Anthropologist for Southern Nigeria/ who in a later work
gives the evidence for totemism among the Edo more briefly,
as follows :
" Over the whole area occupied by the Edo-speaking
people, the ordinary rule of prohibited degrees is that a man
may not marry a woman who belongs either to his father's
or his mother's family. Precisely how far the limits of the
family extend is difficult to ascertain. It seems to be clear
that no marriage will be permitted where any family relation-
ship is recognised, but it seems to be equally clear that, after
a certain point, a family breaks up. In certain communities
the test of membership of a family is whether they sacrifice
to the ancestors in the same place. In the kingdom of Edo,
so far as the father's family is concerned, the test is a simpler
one. The majority of families have a totem, known as Awa
or Awaigbe, that is, family prohibition or totem. The totem
may be an animal, a plant, an object of domestic use, or a
certain action or form of words. The plant or animal may
not be eaten nor used, and the form of words or objects is
likewise forbidden to be used. Only during the burial
ceremonies are these prohibitions relaxed. These prohibi-
tions descend from father to child, and in no case is a man
married to a woman who has the same prohibitions as
himself." 2
^ Totemism and Exogamy, ii. pp. Report on the Edo-Speaking Peoples
587 sqq. of Nigeria, Part i. (London, 1910).
^ N. W. Thomas, Anthropological p. 61.
CHAPTER X
TOTEMISM IN ASHANTI AND THE NORTHERN TERRITORIES
OF THE GOLD COAST
§ I. Toteviisni in Ashanti
The natives of Ashanti are divided into a number of totemic
and exogamous clans, each of which is called a ntoro. The
totems of the clans recorded by Captain R. S. Rattray of the
Gold Coast Political Service are as follows :
—
Clan
CH. X TOTEMISM IN ASHANTI 479
Clan
48o TOTEMISM IN AFRICA RK. V
and it made its home in the river now called Bosommuru.
" At first these men and women did not bear children,
they had no desire, and conception and birth were not known
at that time.
" One day the python asked them if they had no ofifspring,
and on being told they had not, he said he would cause the
women to conceive. He bade the couples stand face to face,
then he plunged into the river, and rising up, sprayed water
upon their bellies with the words kus kus, and then ordered
them to return home and lie together.
" The women conceived and brought forth the first
children in the world, who took Bosommuru as their ntoro,
each male passing on this ntoro to his children.
" If a Bosommuru ntoro man or w^oman sees a dead
python (they would never kill one) they sprinkle white clay
upon it and bury it. (A Bosompra man treats a leopard in
the same manner).
" Agyinadie ntoro. This ntoro is supposed to have been
given to man in a somewhat similar manner, by the crocodile.
" Bosomtwe ntoro. This ntoro is supposed to have been
given to man by Twe, the anthropomorphic spirit god of
the lake.
" Akankadie ntoro. 'Nyame (the Sky God) very long ago
sent down a dove to the earth to a certain man and woman
there with his blessing and a promise of children. The
Ashanti say that persons of this ntoro are to be distinguished
by their peaceful natures even to this day.
" Myths and traditions in connection with the remaining
ntoro have not yet been traced.
" An examination of the above myths and of the tables
of the 7itoro divisions shows that one aspect at least of the
ntoro is totemistic. We have a mythical spirit ancestor who
was a python, a crocodile, an anthropomorphic water god,
etc., with whom its descendants claim ntoro relationship,
and this relationship is expressed in certain funeral customs.
" Now evidence of participation in a funeral custom is
held by the courts to be evidence of joint responsibility for a
clansman's debt as proving kinship. The sprinkling of white
clay and the burying of python or leopard therefore have a
considerable significance.
c H. X TO TEMISM IN A SHANTI 481
" With regard to other animals, plants, etc., which might
be regarded as associated totems or sub-totems, their position
is less clear. The Ashanti say they do not respect them in
any particular way. They do not eat them, it is true, because
they say that if they did they would be ill. These taboos,
they state, were established long, long ago because these
particular things were found to disagree with their ancestors ;
new taboos are not now created in this sense."
^
The Ashanti have the classificatory system of relationship,
with the many prohibitions which it entails on marriage
with persons of near or distant relationship, as we should
esteem them. On the other hand, marriage is allowed with
the father's sister's daughter, indeed it is not only allowed,
but privileged or enjoined, and with the mother's brother's
daughter marriage is also enjoined.^ In short, marriage is
enjoined with cross-cousins of the iirst degree.
§ 2. TotcDiisni in the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast
Many of the tribes inhabiting this area are divided into
totemic and exogamous clans. The system was recognised
and recorded for the first time, so far as I am aware, by
Mr. A. W. Cardinall. I will give his general account of the
system, only premising that in it he seems to include both
clan totems and individual or personal totems.
" The subject of animals leads one to the question of
totems. In its usually accepted meaning the term is not
quite accurate if applied to the customs of these people.
Everyone has some animal which is a species of alter ego—
not to be slain or eaten, an animal which is recognized as one's
friend, one's brother. Most noteworthy of these animals is the
crocodile, which is called by the Paga people their soul. The
life of a man or woman is identical with that of his crocodile
alter ego. When he is born the crocodile is born ;
they are
ill at the same time ; they die at the same time. It is said
that when a man is at the point of death one can hear at
night the groaning of his crocodile. These crocodiles con-
gregate chiefly in one large pool and are very numerous.
1 R. S. Rattray, Ashanti (Oxford, 1923), pp. 45 sqq.
2 R. S. Rattray, op. cit. pp. 37 sq.
2 I
482 TO TEMISM IN A FRICA B k . v
Women and children walk among them without fear to get
the water, and the crocodiles are at liberty to get any goat
or sheep rash enough to go within reach of their maws.
" Other totems are the python, iguana, squirrel, civet,
mole-cricket, monkey, green-snake, mouse, partridge, and
dog. Some trees are also totems, notably the kapok. It
would seem that women have no such totems. They are
generally forbidden to eat fowls, dogs, or monkeys. . . .
" A man usually has two totems. One he inherits from
his father and the other he obtains at the ceremony of seem,
a kind of baptism. . . Occasionally an animal is taken as
a totem at the instigation of a sorcerer, who may detect in
it the malign influence which has caused the misfortunes
that prompted the consultation. For instance, at Pagabru a
man slew two leopards. This was an event of no small order.
Shortly after, several people in his compound died. The
sorcerer was visited, and as a result the man learned that the
leopard was a totem or, rather, taboo for him. He therefore
modelled two clay leopards outside the gate of his compound
and sacrificed to them. Be it noted, again, how the man
himself associating the two events—the slaying of the
leopards and the death of his relatives—on consulting the
sorcerer obtained a reply quite in accordance with his own
natural conclusions. In the opposite way, a man whose friends
attribute their good fortune to the kindness of their totems
will be persuaded to adopt those particular animals. To do
so one merely sacrifices a goat or fowl and begs for their
protection. . . .
" The origin of these totems is usually traced to some
event in the past in which the animal chosen has aided the
family. A small boy who joined my household—a Nankanni
—had as his main totem the python. It appears that his
father was out in the bush with some friends, when they
angered a python, which slew them but left him. This was
an evident sign of partiality for him on the part of the snake,
who thus became the boy's father's totem.
" The chief of Navarro's totem is a crocodile. The family
received this in the following manner. Long ago the
Kamboin-zono, coming from the south, had chased the Nan-
kanni in a northern direction. One of the invaders was left
C H. X TOTEMISM IN A SHANTI 483
at Zekko with his wife, because of an injury to his leg. No
remedy could heal him. One day, when he was near to dying,
a squirrel jumped down from a branch of a tree on to the
wound. The Kamboin-zono in his agony cried out, but the
pain was relieved almost immediately. He felt sure that he
could recover, and sent his wife to go and bring him some
water. She took her pot and went in search of it. Finding
none, and meeting a crocodile, she ran back to him and told
him what she had seen. He told her to go back quickly and
follow the crocodile, for it would show her where a water-hole
would be found. She went back and, following the crocodile,
found a large pond. She filled her water-pot and returned
to her husband, who, recovering, built his compound at the
place and begat many children. After many generations
these fought together, and some were driven from Zekko.
These men came and settled in Navarro, retaining the
memory of the friendly aid of the crocodile.
" At Mayoro I learned how one day a blacksmith went
to the bush to kill bush-cows ; meeting one, he shot an arrow
and wounded it. The bush-cow charged. The blacksmith
ran. Seeing an ant-eater's earth he crept in, just escaping
the bush-cow. It remained there waiting for him to come
out. But, being seriously wounded, it died, and fell on top
of the hole. The blacksmith could not push the corpse away
and remained imprisoned. A mole-cricket was there also,
and began to bore an exit. Through this small orifice a ray
of light came to the unfortunate hunter, who enlarged it
with his knife and succeeded in extricating himself. Thus
the mole-cricket became the totem of the blacksmiths." ^
Totemisni of the Nankanse.—A fuller and more precise
account of totemism in this region has been given by Captain
R. S. Rattray in his monograph on the tribes of the Northern
Territory. Thus he tells us that the Nankanse, the largest
of this group of tribes, are divided into some twenty-six
totemic clans {bute, plural bura), each of which is patrilineal
and exogamous.
" The history of any of these tribes," he says, " is always
a composite record ; it is the history of every clan of which
^ A. W. Cardinall, The Northern Territories of the Gold Coast (London,
N.D.), pp. 39 sqq.
484 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
the tribe is composed. The history of a clan is the history of
the first head of that clan. . . . To write the history of the
origin of the Nankanse would therefore entail the study of
the migrations and vicissitudes of each of the twenty-six or
more clans which now constitute this tribal division. It would
clearly be impossible to do so, and would serve little purpose.
One example must therefore suffice.
" History of Winkono, the Head Settlement of the IVe'da
Clan {We'ba, lit. bush-dog, i.e. the leopard). '
Before the
Dagomba came, and before the Europeans came, the
Ten'dana, Anvenyo, was head Ten' dana of all the weba
kyiseba (lit. those who taboo the leopard). The clan is
divided into three (main) yi-zuto (lit. chief or head com-
pounds), each tracing descent from one of three 'half-brothers'
by the same father but by different mothers. This common
father was called Abonposogo (lit. Rotten Thing). He was
the '
father '
of the leopard clan, and the first of that clan.
It came about thus : He had become blind, when a leopard
came and licked his eyes, which then opened. He thereupon
took an oath that neither he nor any of his children would
ever eat or kill a leopard again. After regaining his sight
he married and begat Atonaba. Atonaba, when still an
infant, was saved from being burned to death by a hen which
gave the alarm when the hut' in which the infant was asleep
caught fire. Abonposogo then took another oath, that no
first-born of his should ever eat a fowl. Atonaba begat Avila
(alias Akungue ?). Avila begat Anude. The clan became
known as we'ba la noa kyiseba (they who taboo leopard and
fowl). When an old man of the clan falls ill, we see a leopard
among the compounds, and, on death, he '
rises up '
a
leopard.
" Violation of the Tote77i. —On the death of a clansman,
a fowl is killed, and one leg placed on the mat beside the
corpse, and this is later buried with it, the following words
being spoken :
'
Receive this, your fowl, to-day, because
you are departing.'
" Women of the clan do not turn into leopards, nor do
young children who die before they have begun to keep the
taboos, nor children who die before their mother has given
birth to another child, because no proper funeral custom is
TOTEMISM IN ASIIANTI 485
held for such and they are not full and proper menil)crs of
the clan.
" If a clansman sees a dead leopard he will touch it with
his finger and then touch his own head, and will dig a hole
and bury it. If someone kills a leopard, and you have power
over him, you wall take it from him and bury it, and afterwards
bathe. No second funeral custom is made because the leo-
pard is my ancestor who has already died and for w^hom a
second funeral has already been held. ... A full-grown
man who dies will turn into a leopard, but not a person who
has not had a proper funeral custom. We (leopards) do not
eat people unless they owe us a debt. When this happens
we (the living) consult a soothsayer and find out the reason
why a leopard has killed some one, and make satisfaction.
Clansmen cannot become leopards while alive, but when a
man is about to die a leopard will come to the compound.
When a clansman meets a leopard, he will salute it by slapping
his thigh or clapping his hands. If a leopard begins to kill
the live-stock, it is liable to be killed, but later an offering will
be made at the sacred grove (tingane) and a report made
—
that '
your {i.e. the ancestor's) child was a thief and was
punished.'
"
Of the remaining clans, which to-day form what may be
called the Nankanse Tribe, the following are a fairly repre-
sentative list :
—
Clan
486 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
Toteniism ofthe Builsa.—The Builsa are a large tribe, rank-
ing as the second largest tribal group inhabiting the Northern
Territories. They are situated west of the Nankansc.
The Builsa have the same totemic organisation which was
found in the tribe already investigated. " It is not easy at
the present day—largely owing to the effects of civil wars
and slave-traders—to allocate particular clans to particular
towns. These are tending to become cosmopolitan. 1 will
not therefore attempt to do so, but merely note the names
of such clans as are met with. These are :
—
Pa or Paau (a cricket). Gwobeag (lit. Bush-dog ?).
Nau (crocodile). Piiig (hyena).
Way-kpwef?i (python). Gbzvegen (lion).
Wanu (monkey). Kirr (a kind of squirrel).
Feok (Colobus monkey). Tunin (a kind of fish).
Warek (leopard). Yogeu (a wild cat ?)....
" The same reasons as are given elsewhere to account for
the respect accorded to certain animals, etc., are here repeated.
The clan totems assisted the clansmen's ancestors in some
way or other. Sergeant-Major Solla, who belongs to the
Feok clan, states, '
Our ancestor was nursed by a monkey,
when he had been lost in the bush. When we die, or even
before we die, our kyik (soul) becomes a monkey.' " ^
^ Totevtis7n of the Dagaba.—The Dagaba number, accord-
ing to the last Census Report (192 1), 36,500 souls. The
word bure (pi. bura) is used to designate their totemic,
exogamous, patrilineal divisions. The Dagaba totem clans
recorded include the following :
—
Kpwire (Small mouse). Zibu or Zigi (Python).
Nwa7ia (Monkey). Wabo (Snake).
Loara (Leopard). Eba (Crocodile).
Sieni (Porcupine). Bona (Lizard).
Ktinkimi (Tortoise). Gaugane (Grasshopper).
The clan totem is known as kyirun (pi. kyire) which
means simply, " the avoidance," " the taboo."
" The following is the account given to me of how the
kunkuni (tortoise) came to be the kyirun of that clan.
" '
A wife of our ancestor went to the water and left her
infant in a basket. When she returned, she found that a
1 R. S. Rattray, op. cit. ii. 399 sq.
CH. X TOTEMISM IN ASHANTI 487
tortoise had entered the basket. She picked it up and threw
it away. It hit a stone and died, and soon after the infant
also died. The Elders said the tortoise was our kyirun.
When a clansman sees a dead tortoise he sews it in a cloth ;
if he did not do so, he could not be given a proper funeral
when he died. Any one who killed a tortoise in the olden
days would have been killed. When a man dies, a tortoise
dies ;
when a child is born, a tortoise is born. I have white
mottled legs, my tortoise has the same ; I am getting blind,
so is my tortoise. When a man dies, he goes to Dapane (land
of dead) ; his tortoise also goes there.'
" Some of the totems given above are undoubtedly
associated totems and sub-totems. A clansman of the
Kpwire group stated that while the Kpwire (mouse) was
his '
avoidance,' being that of the first ancestor from which
his clan traced descent, his particular kindred group, however,
also tabooed Wabo (snake), because its less remote ancestor
had once been lost and was dying of thirst, when a snake
showed him where to find water. This ancestor in conse-
quence adopted the snake as his own private (avoidance),
but in the following generation it became that of his descen-
dants who inherited the medicine or roots connected with it.
There are many instances of this splitting up or forming of
these subsidiary avoidances which in time tend to submerge
or supersede the older more remote ancestral taboo and give
birth in this manner to new clans. This curious and inter-
esting fact accounts in many cases for the existence of more
than one totem or avoidance by a single person and a single
kindred group. The whole system of totemism in these parts
seems to have originated in this manner." ^
Tote-}nis'}n of the Lobi.—-The Lobi inhabit the extreme
north-western area of the Northern Territories, spreading
south along a narrow strip bounded on the west by the Black
Volta. They are perhaps the most primitive of any of the
tribes in the Northern Territories.
Lobi clans are divided into patrilineal totemic groups,
known elsewhere as bute (with its variants), and known
among the Lobi as dogoro. The dogoro are possibly the
orthodox totemic clans, but for the purposes of recognition
1 R. S. Rattray, op. cit. ii. 404 sq.
488 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA BK. V
and description, the totem occupied quite a secondary place,
clans being known, not by their particular avoidances, but by
names which are, or are associated with, the clansmen's com-
mon remote ancestors. The following is a table showing the
dogoro wath their accompanying avoidances, where known :
—
Dogoro
CH. X TOTEMISM IN ASHANTI 489
Toteniism of the Isala.—The Isala were returned in the
1 92 1 Census as numbering 21,698 persons.
" There are two ways of enquiring of an Isal to what
clan he belongs ; one may ask, '
What do you swear by ?
'
(^Ben nwehe?) or '
What do you avoid ? '
{Ben vea ?). The
nouns formed from these verbs appeared to be used for what
we would call the clan totem, z.e. nwean and viero or vero—
the thing you swear by, the thing you avoid. The latter
word is the one most commonly used, and when coupled
with the name of the totem, gives us the clan name ; thus
Ganga-vera (s. Gangavera), those of the crow clan, lit. crow-
avoiding persons ; Nyevera, those who avoid crocodile ;
Saiivera, those who avoid porcupine, etc. etc."
A clansman may not marry a clanswoman ;
the son ac-
quires the clan of his father. The following is a list of Isala
clans :
—
Clan Totem
490 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
a town other than that from which his mother came. Marriage
with a father's sister's daughter and with mother's brother's
daughter is prohibited. A man may not marry the daughter
of his wife's sister " because his wife calls that woman her
daughter." He may marry—indeed it is considered a natural
union—-his wife's brother's daughter. The Isala permit a
man to marry two sisters, but if both conceive about the
same time, the younger is sent to another compound for her
confinement. A brother and sister may not marry a sister
and brother, " it would cause quarrelling." A man may not
marry a woman, and also marry her daughter (by another
man). If a father gives his daughter to a man in marriage,
he may not later take a wife from the section from which his
son-in-law comes. A violation of some of the above pro-
hibitions would, it is supposed, result in death.
^
^ R. S. Rattray, op. cit. ii. 503 sq.
CHAPTER XI
TOTEMISM ON THE IVORY COAST
On the Ivory Coast, which adjoins the Gold Coast on the
west, a system ot totemism has been found in two of the tribes.
Totemisni of the Koiilangos.—The Koulangos offer sacri-
fices to animals, especially to serpents and above all to
pythons. As to lions, leopards, hyenas, and elephants, some
people will not kill them, because their family is descended
from a lion, a panther, a hyena, or an elephant. In this case
it is believed that the animals cannot injure their human
descendants. Other people may not touch these animals be-
cause they can transform themselves into these creatures.^
For the Koulangos have a belief corresponding to the Euro-
pean belief in were-wolves. They think that certain persons
can change at will, some into leopards, some into hyenas,
and others into other animals. They do not thus transform
themselves in order to attack other men, nor to play tricks
upon hunters. They only do it for a defensive purpose, for
example to protect their plantations by night. In order to
accomplish the transformation, they bathe in water into
which they have put a certain drug.
Certain families change thus into a certain animal. Those
who can transform themselves into certain animals cannot
and ought not to eat of the flesh of the animals into which
they turn. Thus persons who change into leopards may not
eat the flesh of the leopard, and persons who change into
lions may not eat the flesh of the lion."
The Koulangos are reported to practise neither exogamy
1 L. Tauxier, Le Noir de Bondoukou (Paris, 1921), p. 175.
- L. Tauxier, op. cit. pp. 197 sq.
491
492 TOTEMISM IN A I' RICA PK. v
nor endogamy. A man is free to take a wife from his own
household, and still more from his own village. But they
also marry a wife from outside their house, their family, or
even of their village. However, a brother may not marry his
sister. Children of two brothers or of two sisters may not
marry, but children of a brother and sister may marry. ^ In
other words, cross-cousins may marry, but ortho- or parallel
cousins may not.
Totemism of the Dyoulas.—The Dyoulas have diavtous
or clan names such as Ouatara, Bane, Derebou, and so forth,
which are the names of the n' tanas or sacred animals which
they may not touch.
The Ouatara have for their n'tana (totem) the leopard.
They say that the ancestor of the Ouatara was a leopard.
When an Ouatara sees a leopard in the forest he holds out
to the animal both his hands, with the fingers stretched out
fan-wise, and the thumbs hidden in the palms of his hands.
If he is a true Ouatara the leopard will not touch him.
Naturally the Ouatara have no right to hunt or kill, or even
touch the animal from which they are descended.
Members of another clan, the Kamarate, have also the
leopard for their totem (it' tana).
When a leopard is heard to cry, it is because someone is
about to die in their quarter.
The old men used to say that formerly their souls after
death entered the bodies of leopards. But since their conver-
sion to Mohammedanism they no longer believe in this trans-
migration of their souls. They say, too, that formerly their
forefathers could change themselves into leopards, but nowa-
days they are no longer able to do so.
Members of the Bane clan have for their totems {n'tand)
the serpent and the palm-rat. Their ancestors changed them-
selves into serpents. Accordingly, in those days they respected
serpents, but they have now lost this power of transformation.
Members of this clan still respect the palm-rat, because
formerly when they went to war they took with them a drug
as a charm to protect them against the bullets of the foe.
But the person who gave them the drug had told them that
if they touched a palm-rat, or ate of one, the drug would have
^ L. Tauxier, op. cit. p. i6o.
CH. XI TOTEMISM ON THE IVORY COAST 493
no power to ward off the bullets and they would certainly be
killed. At the present day some of them eat the palm-rat
because under French rule there is no longer war and con-
sequently no need to guard themselves against the shots of
an enemy. But some who are more warmly attached to old
customs still adhere to the practice of not eating palm-rats.
Members of the Derebou clan have for their totems the
leopard and the hare. They spare the leopard because their
grandfathers believed that the leopard was their ancestor.
But now that they are Muslims they believe it no longer.
Formerly they tied up goats in their quarter for the leopards
to eat.
As to hares, they may not eat them, for they believe that if
they did so they would become blind. One of their ancestors,
who had made a powerful drug, attached it to a hare which
had a white spot on its front, and set it free in the forest.
They declare that since then they may not touch hares lest
the drug should lose its potency.^
^ L. Tauxier, op. cit. pp. 271 sqq.
CHAPTER XII
TOTEMISM IN LIBERIA
The Kpelle, a negro tribe whose country lies along both
banks of the Paul River, have certain sacred animals and
plants which may, though perhaps in a qualified sense, be
described as totemic.
No person may eat his sala or totem animal : it is taboo to
him. A man who has the leopard for his totem may not,
further, eat the flesh of any animal which a leopard has killed
and left behind, for the spittle of the leopard has fallen upon
it. On the other hand, the fruit of a totem tree may be
enjoyed by its owner and his kinsfolk ;
but it must first be
struck with a stick or cut with a knife.
Sacrifices are regularly offered by the totemite to his
totem every month. The offerings consist of cooked fowl and
rice, or if the man cannot afford that, then kola nuts will
suffice. It appears that when a man has a son born to him
he offers a sacrifice to his totem animal, which is also the
totem animal of his new-born son.
The totem v/ith its attendant taboos is inherited from
father to son and from mother to daughter.
What Professor Westermann calls the totem plant is
always individual : a certain plant belongs to a certain man,
and is planted for him. Not so with animals : whoever has
the leopard for his totem respects all leopards ;
but Professor
Westermann does not know whether or not the man regards
any one individual of the species as specially associated with
himself.
The names of the totem animals, so far as Professor
Westermann could ascertain them, were as follows : Leopard,
494
CH. XII TOTEMISM IN LIBERIA 495
Elephant, several kinds of Antelope, Wild Pig, Chimpanzee,
Porcupine, Tortoise, Crocodile, Water Snake, Dog ; of the
totem plants, Banana Tree, Kola Tree, Oil Palm, Raffia Palm,
and Manioc Plant ; among natural phenomena, the Wind.^
But Professor Westermann tells us that what he calls the
totemic animals and plants form no bar to the marriage of
individuals who possess them.^ Thus the totems, if they can
be called such, of the Kpelle lack one of the most important
characteristics of true totemism.
^ D. Westermann, Die Kpelle 216 sqq.
(Gottingen and Leipzig, 1921), pp. - D. Westermann, op. cit. p. 62.
CHAPTER XIII
TOTEMISM IN SIERRA LEONE
TOTEMISM appears to be, or to have formerly been, wide-
spread among the tribes of Sierra Leone. The following
account of it is given by Mr. N. W. Thomas, Government
Anthropologist:
" A number of facts came to light which suggest that
totemism, somewhat overlaid perhaps by other prohibitions,
exists among most of the Sierra Leone tribes. It is true that
the name of the clan is not derived from the forbidden
aninial, so far as can be seen, nor are the clans invariably
exogamous ; but the exogamous rule clearly existed in the
past, and in the main the prohibitions are of the totemic
type ; the only attempt to account for the prohibitions
asserted that they were acquired by '
experience.' The
main indication of totemism is the (rare) assertion that
animal and man are of the same family.
" In general the totems, if such they are, appear to be of
small importance in the life of the people, if we except the
Kuruma and Bokoro clans. The existence of the clans is,
however, at once proclaimed in the Timne country by the
custom of appending the clan name to that of the individual ;
it is, in fact, on the way to becoming a surname.
Tivine.—In a certain number of cases the exogamous
rule held good ; but it is clearly in process of being abrogated,
as there were cases in my genealogies in which members of
the Kamara clan intermarried ; and it was more than once
expressly stated that by means of sacrifice the '
nearness
'
could be overcome, especially if no other woman were
available. The suitor sacrificed a sheep and bread in the
496
CH. XIII TOTEMISM IN SIERRA LEONE 497
presence of all the people ; in some places all ate ; in others,
some asked a blessing and handed their meat to others.
Some say that the suitor should not eat. In other cases,
no sacrifice was needed ; but it is probable that the wife
would come from another village.
" The respect for the totem is usually shown by abstention
from killing and eating it, or using the tree for firewood ; in
some cases touching, especially .the dead animal, is or was
forbidden ;
Kagbo clan may give ranink (their totem fish)
to one w^ho is not a Kagbo, but must wash hands after
touching it ; eating the fish, on the other hand, brings on
the head of the offender a penalty that cannot be avoided.
Bangura clan avoids leopard but may touch a leopard skin
without precautions. In some cases it is not forbidden to
kill the totem and sell it to others. If Kamara eats a forbidden
animal, they tie a yam leaf in a big leaf to rot and rub on the
spots, which then disappear.
" A Kamara man who sees a living python will die ;
and he will not touch a dead one, though he will tell a man
who can eat it where it is to be found. He will not, however,
allow one to be killed in his presence, and will offer money
to secure the release of a young python kept in captivity.
Probably all these customs are more or less in abeyance,
for I kept a python in captivity for some months and received
no offer from any Kamara man.
" In the ordinary way the descent of the totem is patri-
lineal ; but one or two informants respected their mothers'
totems, though the prohibition would not be passed on to
their children. A wife must respect her husband's totem
when she is pregnant or suckling a child ; she may not cook
his forbidden animal in his pots.
" In many cases the penalty for breach of a prohibition
seems to be related to the forbidden animal ;
thus spots on
the skin and the leopard, red marks and a red bird, cracked
feet and the crocodile (skin), and so on. In no case did I
hear of any remedy for a breach of the tabu." ^
With regard to marriage rules in Sierra Leone Mr. N. W.
Thomas informs us that " cross-cousin marriages and other
^ N. W. Thomas, Anthropological and Custom of the Timne and other
Report on Sierra Leone, Part i., Lata Tribes (London, 1916), pp. 132 sqq
2 K
498 TOTEMISM IN AFRICA bk. v
special forms seem to be unknown to the Timne ;
and in one
case I was assured that most first cousins (father's brother's
or sister's daughter or mother's sister's daughter) were not
eligible wives, though a mother's brother's daughter might
be chosen."-^
1 N. W. Thomas, op. cit. p. 91
.
BOOK VI
TOTEMISM IN NORTH AMERICA
CHAPTER I
TOTEMISM OF THE WINNEBAGO INDIANS
The Winnebago are an Indian tribe in the State of Wisconsin
They were discovered by the Frenchman Nicollet in 1634,
when they were settled on Green Bay in Lake Michigan.
To the west they were in intimate contact with a kindred tribe,
the Iowa, who in turn were neighbours of the Oto and
Missouri. These four tribes, the Winnebago, Iowa, Oto,
and Missouri, all belonging to the Siouan stock, speak
dialects naturally intelligible to one another, and show many
cultural similarities. On the other hand, the Winnebago
show many cultural similarities with their Central Algonquian
neighbours, particularly in all that pertains to material cul-
ture and art, and this double influence, that from their Siouan
neighbours and that from their Algonquian neighbours,
must be borne in mind in any attempt to understand the
Winnebago culture.^
The Winnebago social organisation is based on two
phratries or moieties, known respectively as the Upper or
Air and the Lower or Earth divisions. The Upper division
contains four clans, Thunderbird, War People, Eagle, and
Pigeon (extinct), and the Lower division eight clans, the Bear,
Wolf, Water-spirit, Deer, Elk, Buffalo, Fish, and Snake. The
moieties were exogamous. A member of the Upper moiety
must marry a member of the Lower moiety and vice versa.
While there is no law forbidding marriage between the clans
of the two moieties, there is some evidence showing a tendency
of certain clans to intermarry. The Thunderbird and Bear
^ F. W. I lodge (editor), Handbook of American Indians, ii. (Washington,
1910) p. 958.
501 2 K 2
502 TOTEMISM IN NORTH AMERICA bk. vi
clans are regarded as the leading clans of their respective
moieties. Both have definite functions. The lodge of the
former is the peace lodge, over which the chief of the tribe
presides, and in which disputes between Indians are adjudi-
cated. No person might be killed in the lodge, and an
offender or prisoner who escaped to it was protected so long
as he was within its precincts. The lodge of the Bear clan
was the war or disciplinary lodge : prisoners were killed,
and offenders punished in its precincts. Besides these
functions, the Bear clan possessed the right of " soldier
killing" and was in charge of both ends of the camping circle
during the hunt. Each clan has a large number of individual
customs, relating to birth, the naming feast, death, and the
funeral wake. In this connection the most notable rule is
that a member of one clan cannot be buried by the members
of another clan of the same moiety.^
Some twenty years ago the tribe was examined afresh
for the Bureau of American Ethnology by Mr. Paul Radin.
The results of his careful examination of the social and
totemic organisation of the tribe are best given in his own
words, as follows :
" The Winnebago are divided into two divisions, the one
known as the wangeregi herera, '
those who are above,' and
the other as the manegi herera, '
those who are on earth.'
Descent was reckoned in the paternal line. But these appella-
tions refer to the animals after whom the clans are named,
the name wangeregi covering the birds, the term manegi
land and water animals. So finnly has the idea of division
of animal forms become associated with the two divisions
that were a new clan introduced now among the Winnebago
its position would depend exclusively upon the nature of the
animal associated with it. As siniilar reasons dictate clan
groupings among some of the Central Algonquian tribes, a
few words concerning this type of association will not be amiss.
The grouping of the fauna into a distinct number of cate-
gories is extremely common in North America. Among the
Winnebago, a number of other Siouan, and Central Algon-
quian tribes, there was a fivefold classification ; earth animals,
sky animals, empyrean animals, aquatic animals, and sub-
^ F. W. Hodge., op. cit. ii. 959 sq.
CH. I TOTEMISM OF THE WINNEBAGO INDIANS 503
aquatic animals. Among the Winnebago, the thunderbird
belongs to the empyrean ; the eagle, hawk, and pigeon to the
sky ;
the bear and wolf to the earth ; the fish to the water ;
and the water-spirit below the water. This religio-mytho-
logical conception has unquestionably received a certain
amount of sympathetic elaboration at the hands of shamans,
and particularly at the hands of the leaders of such ceremonies
as the Winter Feast, the Clan Feast, and the Clan Wake,
as well as at the hands of those who had in their keeping the
clan origin myths.
" The characteristics of the thunderbird, eagle, bear, and
water-spirit as clan animals, and as animals connected with
a division of fauna, are also related to the general conception
of these animals per se. The eagle and hawk are birds of
prey ; the thunderbird is generally a deity granting long life,
and associated with peace, although his connection with
war is also cominon. Similarly the bear is supposed to have
a '
soldier '
nature, and the water-spirit is intimately associ-
ated with rites pertaining to crossing streams, calming the
sea, and ownership of water property. This correlation un-
questionably indicates an influence of the religio-mythological
conception of the animal upon the social group with which
it is associated. How far this can go is abundantly attested
by the names and behavior of the wangeregi and nianegi
divisions.
" On the other hand, we may legitimately ask what in-
fluence the two divisions had in molding the attributes of
these animals, or upon the behavior of the groups with
which their name was associated. The functions of a warrior
may have determined, as they certainly have accentuated, the
'
warrior '
characteristics of the eagle and hawk, nor is there
any easily intelligible reason why the thunderbird should be
associated with peace. From our knowledge of the social
organization of other Siouan tribes, the political functions of
the clan seem to be the characteristic feature of the organiza-
tion, and this being the case, the possibility of associations of
warlike and peaceful attributes with animals may as much
be ascribed to the influence of the social unit as vice versa.
With regard to such functions as the exogamy of the two
divisions or that of the clans, or of the reciprocal l^urial
504 TOTEMISM IN NORTH AMERICA ek. vi
relationship of the wangeregi and inanegi divisions, we, of
course, know that the characteristics of the animal in question
have nothing to do with the matter. We must then realize
that we are dealing with reciprocal influences—-with the re-
ligio-mythical conception of animals on the one hand, and of
political functions of social units on the other. In some cases,
such as the specific associations with the water-spirit, it is
probable that the religio-mythological conception of the
animal is doininant. The association of the thunderbird with
fire has likew^ise not been due to any activity of the social
unit ; and thus examples might be multiplied In this con-
nection, the fact that animals with whom a multitude of
associations have already been established are subsequently
associated with social units is fundamental. From this point
of view, the animal names of social organization are intrusive
features, and we will consequently expect to find historical
adjustments. This, we think, is what has taken place here.
The animal name with its religio-mythological conceptions
was a remarkably strong unit, and as a result reciprocal
influences took place. Although the religio-mythological
influence must thus have been marked, it appears to have
changed none of the marital and other functions of the two
divisions nor the political functions of the clans. What it did
change, and change fundamentally, was the interpretation of
the social organization.
" The only function that the zvangeregi and inanegi
divisions seem to have had was the regulation of marriage.
A wangeregi man had to marry a nianegi woman, and vice
versa. The only other function was, according to some in-
formants, reciprocal burial. Here the religio-mythological
interpretations seem in part to have determined this relation,
for a niangeri man buried a wangeregi man because, as a
'
land division,' it pertained to him to place a corpse in the
earth. This, however, seems to be a doubtful function, for
earth burial seems in olden times to have been characteristic
only of the nianegi division, the wangeregi clans employing
scaffold burial. In addition, the burial relation was one of
the many reciprocal duties of the '
friend-clan,' and if it was
ever postulated of the wangeregi and nianegi, this was likely
due to the fact that the '
friendship '
relation seems also to
CH. I TOTEMISM OF THE WINNEBAGO INDIANS 505
have existed between two clans belonging to the two different
divisions. According to one myth, however, the four clans
of the wangeregi paired off as '
friends '
with four clans of the
nianegi. This would then be practically equivalent to saying
that the nianegi buried the zvangeregi.
" Thus far we have spoken only of the socio-political
functions. The two divisions, however, play a part in a
number of social and ceremonial connections : first, in the
organization of the village ; second, in the arrangement of
the clans while on the warpath ; third, as the basis of organiza-
tion at the '
chief '
feast ; and lastly, as the basis of organiza-
tion of the ceremonial lacrosse game.
" According to the majority of the older people, when the
old social organization was still intact, each village was
divided into two halves by an imaginary line running due
north-west and south-east, the wangeregi clans dwelling in
one half, with the chief's lodge in the south, and the nianegi
clans dwelling in the other half, with the bear or soldier clan
in the north. Although this arrangement has now become
almost legendary, it was corroborated by many of the older
people. To what extent every village was organized on this
basis it is impossible to state. When this question was
directly put to individuals, the answer was always in the
affirmative. Quite a number of old individuals, however,
denied vigorously that such had ever been the organization
of the village, and claimed instead that the lodges of the Chief
and the Soldier (Bear) clan were in the center of the village.
" In looking over the clan affiliations of the informants we
noticed, however, that the first arrangement was always given
by members of the bird clans, and second arrangement by
members of the Bear clan and generally also by others on the
nianegi side. This fact, of course, makes the decision as to
the relationship of these two types of village organization
quite difficult. There can be no question as to the existence
of a twofold division of the tribe as far as marital relations
were concerned, nor as to the segregation of specific clans in
different villages. When on the warpath the twofold division
manifested itself in the arrangement of fireplaces, so that the
question to be resolved here is whether we can credit the state-
ments that this twofold division expressed itself in the
5o6 '
TOTEMISM IN NORTH AMERICA bk. vi
arrangement of the village, and, if it did, whether this was
characteristic of the whole tribe or only of parts of the tribe.
That this was true for part of the tribe can l)e accepted.
Whether it was true for the whole tribe, however, can not be
definitely answered until we know more of the Dhegiha and
Tciwere. . . .
" The twofold organization is reflected in the arrangement
of the fireplaces when on the warpath, each division having
two fireplaces, whose location is determined by the direction
in which the party is going. When going west, for instance,
the two fireplaces for the wangeregi are on the south, and the
two for the nianegi on the north side. However, when on the
tribal move or hunting, no indication of the division exists.
" As the basis of ceremonial organization, we find the two-
fold division present only once—at the chief feast {hunk
zvoha), but as this feast is to all intents and purposes a feast
given by the bird clans in general, there is really nothing
surprising about its use. The name hunk woha would seem
to indicate that we are dealing simply with a feast of the
Thunderbird clan, and this indeed may have been the case
historically. Hunk to-day, however, is frequently used to
indicate the wangeregi division.
" As the basis of organization in a game, the twofold
division finds expression in ceremonial lacrosse. There the
tvangeregi are pitted against the manegi. A well-known
myth is associated with this arrangement, according to which
the animal ancestors of the wangeregi and manegi decided
their respective rank by playing a game in which they were
organized on this basis. The wangeregi won and for that
reason the chiefs of the division have been selected from this
division. A division into two halves when playing ceremonial
lacrosse is characteristic not only of the Winnebago but of the
Omaha, Menominee, Sauk, Fox, and other tribes. Among
the former two, these sides are identical with two afore-
mentioned political divisions of the tribe, but among the latter
two where no such division exists, the tribe seems to divide
itself into two halves merely on this occasion." ^
1 Paul Radin, "The Winnebago Ethtiology (Washington, 1923), pp.
Tribe," in Thirty-seventh A>mual 185 sqq.
Report of the Bureau of American
CH. I TOTEMISM OF THE WINNEBAGO INDIANS 507
Among the Winnebagos " generally a man took but one
wife, although he was permitted to marry more than one if
he wished. In polygamous marriages the second wife was
usually a niece or a sister of the first wife. According to a
very reliable informant it was the wife herself who often
induced her husband to marry her own niece " ^
1 Paul Radin, op. cit. p. 138.
CHAPTER II
TOTEMISM OF THE CREEK CONFEDERACY
The remains of Indian tribes that belonged to the Creek
Confederacy in the State of Oklahoma were investigated by
Mr. John R. Swanton for the Bureau of American Ethnology
in the years 191 1 and 191 2. With reference to the totemic
system of these tribes, he tells us :
" Regarding the origin of
clanship itself, which is practically bound up with several of
the larger clans, such as the Wind, Bear, Panther, Raccoon,
Alligator, and Deer, there are several stories, some simple,
some more complex, but all we have left is evidently only a
fragment of the original mass of lore on the subject. While
I was told, as a matter of common report, by certain very good
informants that the people of each clan were descended from
the totem animal, such a suggestion is almost always lacking
in the myths dealing with the subject, as, for instance, the
Wolf-Bear myth. According to Legus Perryman, each clan,
or, rather, each exogamous division, was descended from an
eponymous female ancestor called Bird-woman, Panther-
woman, etc. The female ancestor of the Bear clan was not,
however, named from the common black bear, but from one
called the Howling or Whooping Bear. Some people now
identify it either with the grizzly bear or the polar bear. . . .
" A Coweta Indian stated that in the beginning human
beings and animals were coming across the ocean in a gar-
skin boat. On the way the human beings named themselves
after the different animals. One said, '
I belong to the
Panther family,' another '
I belong to the Bird family,' and
so on. They kept on this way until they were about to land,
when all of the animals were used up. One man remained,
50S
CH. II TOTEMISM OF THE CREEK CONFEDERACY 509
however, and they said to him, '
To what clan will you
belong ? '
He answered, '
To the clan of that which you
hear making a noise above my head.' He referred to the
wind humming overhead, and therefore his family came to
be called the Wind clan. According to another informant
the people formerly came to a body of water, and they jumped
into it one after the other. As they did so one said '
I'll be
a Bird,' another, *
I'll be a Bear '
;
and so on. In accord-
ance with still another legend, people came out from a cavern
in the earth, and as they emerged a man standing at the en-
trance bestowed their various clan designations. In fact,
they seem to have been in animal forms or to have been
accompanied by animals, for it is related that when the
Beaver appeared he plunged into a near-by pond, and on a
tree by the bank the Bird was sitting. Then the Bear came
out so fast that he slid on into the water where was the
Beaver." ^
" Clanship had an important influence on the relations
between men, extending into the smallest matters of everyday
life, and much of Creek etiquette was based upon it. Thus a
Creek could tell by the attitude of any two members of his
tribe towards each other—whether they joked with one another
and so on—in what manner they were related. Persons having
parents of the same clan used to joke with each other. This
'
joking relationship '
thus included the entire clan of the
mother ; it also included those whose fathers belonged to
one's own father's clan, and according to Jackson Lewis it
included one's own father's father and those women who had
married into the father's clan. It was etiquette to talk dis-
paragingly of one's own clan, even in the presence of other
members of it, what was said being understood in a contrary
sense. On the other hand, one must always back up his
father's clan and those belonging to it and must speak well
of it and of them.
" A similar etiquette extended to objects connected with
the clan, particularly the animal from which it was named.
I was told that if a person killed a totem animal the people
^
J. R. Swanton," Social Organiza- second Annual Report of the Bureau of
tion and Social Usages of the Indians American Ethnology (Washington
,
of the Creek Confederacy," in Forty- 1928), pp. no sq.
5IO TOTEMISM IN NORTH AMERICA bk. vi
belonging to the clan from which it derived its name would
compel him to make them a payment. A man of the Bird
clan would say to one who had been shooting birds, '
You
have killed my parents ;
you will have to pay me for it,' and
the other would give him something. . . .
" Although the infliction of fines is here spoken of as
modern, my own information is to the effect that these
observances have, in recent years, been viewed as subjects
for jest rather than matters worthy of serious consideration,
and it appears that animal names were matters of jest as
far back as Adair's time. The custom must certainly have
been little more than formal in some cases ; otherwise the
Deer and Bear clans would have been obliged to abstain
from meat almost entirely and the rest of the nation would
have been under constant tribute to them. The late Chief
Grayson informed me that upon one occasion he killed a
fawn and made a cap out of its skin for one of his sons.
Afterwards he met a man of the Deer clan who took him to
task for this but was finally mollified by the assurance that it
was so used, not out of disrespect, but because it was held in
honour. A man was also supposed to see that proper respect
was paid to the totem animal of his father's clan. An instance
was related to me in which a man was called to account for
having killed a wolf, by another man whose father belonged
to the Wolf clan. It was from this clan association that the
Creeks applied terms of relationship to animals. According
to one informant the Bird people call the buzzards, and all
other kinds of birds in fact, '
my father,' and he added that
this form of address was usual with other clans. It is, how-
ever, more likely that the term given by way of illustration
was applied by persons whose fathers were from the Bird
clan. If they themselves had been Birds, they would probably
have said '
my uncle.' " ^
" The Indians of the Creek Confederacy had numerous
totemic clans divided into two moieties which settled certain
social functions but did not determine marriage. The towns
of which these clans were composed were again divided into
two moieties which were opposed in the ball games and tended
to keep apart from each other." ^
^
J. R. Swanton, op. cit. pp. l6S sq. ^
J. R. Swanton, op. cit. p. 695.
CHAPTER III
TOTEMISM OF THE CHITIMACHAS
Speaking of the tribes of the Lower Mississippi, Mr. John
R. Swanton tells us that " the Chitimacha resembled the
Natchez and some other tribes of the Lower Mississippi in
having a distinct class of nobility, with different terms of
etiquette for each. This is affirmed by the living Indians
and fully confirmed by the following statement :
'
There are
distinctions of rank recognized among them ; the chiefs and
their descendants are noble, and the balance of the people
are of the class of commons. An old man of this latter class,
however great may be his age, will use to the young noble,
however young he may be, respectful expressions w^hich are
only employed towards the nobility, while the latter has the
right of speaking to the former only in popular terms.'
" This strongly recalls the Natchez system and adds im-
portance to a tradition that the Chitimacha had come from
the neighbourhood of the Natchez tribe.
" Instead of marrying among the common people, how-
ever, it is affirmed that the Chitimacha nobles were con-
strained to take partners in their own class, which is tanta-
mount to the admission that a true caste system existed. If
a noble niarried among the common people, the writer was
informed, he would have to stay with them, and for that
reason many refused to marry at all when no women of their
own caste were to be had, and thus hastened the extinction
of the tribe.
" Totemic clans also existed, but only the wolf, bear, dog,
and '
lion '
(^ haimasi ks) are remembered. The wolf clan is
said to be entirely extinct, and the lion clan is represented by
511
512 TOTEMISM IN NORTH A MICRICA HK. vi
only one woman. It is probable that there was a snake clan
also. When angry, people would say to each other, '
You are a
bear,' '
You are a wolf,' etc. A person belonged to the same
clan as his mother, relationship on her side being considered
closer. Benjamin Paul states that his father's mother, who
explained the totemic system to him and who belonged to the
wolf clan, used to talk to the wolves when she was out in the
woods, and thought that she could induce them to go away.
Benjamin Paul's father was also a wolf, of course, while he
and his mother were of the dog clan. The former chiefs,
Champagne and Soulier Rouge, were bears." ^
^
J. R. Swanton, India^i Tribes of (Bureau of American Ethnology,
the Lower Mississippi Valley and Bulletin 43, Washington, 191 1), pp
Adjacent Coast of the Gulf of Mexico 348 sq.
INDEX
Africa, totemism in, 405
Aiga tribe, Papua, 333
Aiston, G., 168
Algonquian tribe of North America, 501
Alligator River district, 35
Aluridja tribe of South Australia, 161
Andedja tribe of Forrest River district,
105
Aniwa, New Hebrides, totemism in,
281
Ants, increase ceremony for, 82
Arabana (Urabunna) tribe of South
Australia, 156, 159
Armstrong, Mr. W. E., 314
Arnga tribe of Forrest River district,
105, no
Arnheim Land, totemism in, 44
Arosi, Solomon Islands, 303
Arunta (Aranda) tribe, 21, 156, 165, 251
Ashanti, totemism in, 478
Associated or multiple totems, 68
Australia, totemism in, 3
Auwa or totem centre, 192
Awemba tribe of Northern Rhodesia, 424
Bachama of Nigeria, totemism of, 455
Baganda tribe of Uganda, 449
Bahima (Banyankole) tribe, Uganda, 442
Ba-Ila of Northern Rhodesia, 419
Bailgu tribe of West Australia, 57
Bakama tribe, Uganda, 440
Ba-Kaonde, totemism of the, 422
Bakitara tribe, Uganda, 443
Bakonjo tribe Uganda, 440
Bakunta tribe, Uganda, 441
Bakyiga tribe, Uganda, 442
Balis or totems, 395
Ballalangnari tribe of Forrest River
district, no, 114
Ballantyne, Rev. A., 317
Bambwa tribe, Uganda, 441
Bangweolo, Lake, 425
Bantu-speaking Tribes of South Africa,
405
Banyankole tribe, Uganda, 442
Banyoro (Bakitara) triVje, Uganda, 443
Bardi tribe of Dampier Land, 93, 95, 96
Barundi of Tanganyika, totemism of,
452
Basabei tribe, L^ganda, 439
Basuto (Sotho), totemism of, 405
Bata-speaking peoples of Nigeria,
totemism of, 458
Bates, Mrs. Daisy M., 53, 152, 153, 154
Bateson, Mr. Gregory, 352
Bathurst Island, Tiwi of, 7 sqq.
Bavenda, totemism of, 408
Bear, ceremony for increase of, 177
Beaver, Mr. W. N., 341
Bechuanas, totemism of, 406
Bhaina, Central Provinces, totemism of,
381
Bhils, Central Provinces, totemism of,
382
Bhuinars, Central Provinces, totemism
of, 392
Billianera tribe of Northern Territory,
26, 38
Binandele tribe, Papua, 333
Bini, Southern Nigeria, totemism of, 477
Birhors of Chota, Nagpur, India, 365
Blackwood, Miss Beatrice, 307
Blood, human, in increase ceremonies,
74. 79
Bombay Gazetteer, 395
Bombay Presidency, totemism in, 394
Bonefish as a totem, 209
Bongo tribes on Upper Nile, 438
Bougainville, Solomon Islands, 307
Brimurer, or rainbow serpent, 115, 146
British New Guinea, totemism of, 329
Brown, Dr. George, 322
Bugari or totems, 66, 75
Builsa tribe of Gold Coast, totemism of,
486
Buka, Solomon Islands, 307
Bullock, Mr. C, 418
Bull-roarer as a totem, 211
Bura and Pabir tribes of Nigeria,
totemism of, 458
Bushmen, Kalahari Desert, totemism of,
406
513
514 INDEX
Calm weather, ceremony for producing,
87
Campbell on totems in Deccan, 395
Cardinall, Mr. A. W., 481
Carpentaria, Gulf of, 9
Caterpillar as totem, 263
Cave paintings, loi
Central Provinces, totemism in, 381
Ceremonial totems, 159
Ceremonies for increase of totemic
species, 183, 192, 229, 240, 241, 246,
257. 274
Ceremony for increase of mankind,
102
•
for producing cold weather, 63
Chalmers, Mr., 342
Children, ceremony for increase of, 180
Chitimacha tribe of Lower Mississippi,
totemism of, 511
Clan totems, 107, 112, 228
Cockles, increase ceremony for, 81
Codrington, Dr., 304
Collier Bay, Kimberley, 96
Cousin marriage, 5, 58, 163
Creek Confederacy, totemism of, 508
Crocodile, cult of, in Australia, 231
Cross-cousin marriage, 49, 232 ;
prohibited, 163
Crow, increase ceremony for, 85
Cult-totemism, 66
Cunningham, Mr., 127
Dagaba tribe of Gold Coast, totemism
of, 486
Dale, Captain A. M., 419
Daly River tribes, 49
Dampier Land, tribes of, 92
Dangali tribe of South-East Australia,
183
Darwin, 9
Deacon, Mr. A. Bernard, 271
Deccan, totemism in, 394, 395
D'Entrecasteaux Archipelago, 314, 317
Devaks or totems, 395
Dieri tribe of South Australia, 9, 155,
158, 163, 164
Dinka tribe of Upper Nile, 433
Djabera-Djaber tribe of Dampier Land,
93. 95. 96
Djaru tribe of East Kimberley, 120
Djauan tribe of Northern Territory, 25,
26, 41
Djaui tribe of Dampier Land, 93
Djerag tribe of East Kimberley, 120
Djugiir (= totem), 165
Djukan tribe of Dampier Land, 93
Dobu, D'Entrecasteaux Archipelago,
319
Dornan, Mr. S. S., 406
Dream totemism of Ungarinyin, 97
totems, 105, 108, 113, 161, 165
Driberg, Mr. J. H., 429
Duke of York Island, 322
Dutch New Guinea, totemism in, 358
Dyoulas of Ivory Coast, totemism of,
492
East Australia, totemism in, 174
East Kimberley, tribes of, 120
Edo tribes of Southern Nigeria,
totemism of, 476
Eels, increase ceremonies for, 87
Ekiti sub-tribe of Southern Nigeria,
totemism of, 476
Elgeyo tribe, totemism of, 427
Elkin, Prof, A. P., 3, 49, 65, 68, 69, 71,
92, 94, 96, 97, 98, 100, 102, 103, 112,
113, 120, 129, 145, 15s
Embu tribes of Kenya, 428
Enthoven, Mr. R. E., 394
Evans-Pritchard, Prof., 435
Exogamous subdivisions defined, 5
Exogamy, 68, 97, 113 ; of Kariera, 57;
on Melville and Bathurst Island, 8 ;
origin of, 5, 256
Fire as a totem, 196
Firth, Mr. Raymond, 284
Fish, ceremony for increase of, 88
Flinders, Captain, 127
Flounders, increase ceremony for, 86
Folklore of Bombay, The, 394
Forrest River district, tribes of, 105
Fortune, Mr. R. F., 319
Fox, Dr. C. E., 303
France, cave paintings in, 150
Gambadi tribe of Papua, 345
Garfish, increase ceremony for, 82
Gerontocracy, 219
Ghost as a totem, 199
Gillen, F. J., 251
Girara tribe of Papua, 344
Glenelg River, West Australia, 123
Glossary of the Tribes and Castes of the
Punjab and North-west Frontier
Province, 401
Goanna, increase ceremony for, 84
Gold Coast, totemism in, 481
Gonds, Central Provinces, totemism of,
384
Gouldsbury, Mr. C, 424
Gra or horde-country, 105
Grey, Sir George, 123, 129, 130, 152,
153
Grubs, increase ceremony for, 177
Haddon, Dr. A. C, 358
Hadfield, Mrs., 269
Hart, C. W. M., 14
Heavenly phenomena as totems, 99
Rely, Mr., 342
INDEX 515
Hofmayr, W., 431
Hogbin, Mr. H. Ian, 310
Honey, ceremony for increase of, 73, 80,
178
Hordes defined, 4
Home, J., 168
Hot weather, increase centre for, 179
Hottentots, totemism of, 406, 407
Humphreys, Mr. C. B., 281
latmul People of Sepik River, New
Guinea, 352
Ila-speaking peoples of Northern
Rhodesia, 418
Imberombera, legendary heroine, 22
Increase ceremonies, 39, 58, 64, 108, 114,
169, 175, 183, 192, 229, 240, 241, 246,
257. 271
ceremony for human race, 102
rites, 71, 77
India, totemism in, 365
Indjibandi tribe of West Australia, 57,
59
Intichiuma ceremony, 26, 32
Iowa tribe of North America, 501
Isala tribe of Gold Coast, totemism of,
489
Ivory Coast, totemism of, 491
Iwaidja tribe of Port Essington, 12 sq.,
26
Iyer, Mr. L. K. Ananthakrishna, 400
Jackson, Mr., 435
Jennes, Mr. D., 317
Jukun peoples of Nigeria, totemism of,
469
Junod, H. A., 412, 413
Kaberry, Miss Phyllis M., no, in, 112,
113
Kabi Kabi tribe of Queensland, 245, 246
Kakadu of Northern Territory, 21 sqq.,
33 ; totemic groups in, 28 sqq.
Kanakuru of Adamawa Province,
Nigeria, totemism of, 466
Kangalu tribe of Emerald, Queensland,
246
Kangaroo, increase ceremony for, 182
Karadjeri tribe of Kimberley Division,
65
Karadjeri seasons, 72
Kare-Kare of Bornu Province, Nigeria,
totemism of, 464
Kariera tribe of Western Australia, 53
Karnatak, totems in, 395
Kasempa district. Northern Rhodesia,
422
Katab tribe of Nigeria, totemism of, 460
Kawadji or Sandbeach people of Cape
York Peninsula, 217
Kelly, Miss C. Tennant, 244
Kenya, Elgeyo tribe of, 427
Keraki tribe of Papua, 345
Kharia, Central Provinces, totemism of,
387
Kimberley, Eastern, tribes of, 65
Kinship system, 120, 158, 163, 180, 204,
353. 421
Kiwai, island of, 336
Kiwai-speaking Papuans, 336
Kiziba, Tanganyika, totemism in, 450
Klaatsch, Prof., 94
Koko Ompidamo tribe of Cape York
Peninsula, 218
Koko Ya'o tribe of Cape York
Peninsula, 219
Kols, Central Provinces, totemism of,
388
Konkan, totemism in, 394, 395
Koulangos of Ivory Coast, totemism of,
491
Kpelle tribe of Liberia, 494
Kuam people of Nebine River, Queens-
land, 244, 247
Kular tribe of Forrest River district, no
Kulbaran, an ancestral hero, 34
Kumbaingeri tribe of South-East
Australia, 174, 180
Kumbali or totem, 75
Kurama of Zaria Province, Nigeria,
totemism of, 462
Kwotto tribe of Nigeria, totemism of,
471
Lake Eyre, 9
" Lakes " group of tribes of South
Australia, 155
Landtman, Prof. G., 358
Lango tribe of Uganda, 429
Larakia tribe, 26
Leenhardt, M. Maurice, 261
Legendary origin of Kakadu tribe, 21 sqq.
Leminiti tribe of Cape York Peninsula,
214
Lesu, New Ireland, 323
Liberia, totemism in, 494
Lifu, Loyalty Islands, 269
Lizard as totem in New Caledonia, 264
Lobi tribe of Gold Coast, totemism of,
487
Local totemism of Ungarinyin, 97
totems, 164, 167
Locust, ceremony for increase of, 177
Long House of Kiwai, 343
Lotuko tribes of Upper Nile, 437
I.ouisiade group, totemism in, 31 j.
Loyalty Islands, totemism in, 269
Lunga tribe of East Kimberley, 120
Macalistcr, Prof. R. A. S., 151
McConnel, Miss Ursula, 188, 213
Mackie, Sir Peter, 439
5i6 INDEX
Macumba sub-tribe of Arunta, 167
Madngella tribe of Northern Territory,
SO
Magic of increase ceremonies, 257
Maiulatara tribe of South Australia, i6i
Majhwar, Central Provinces, totemism
of, 389
Malekula, New Hebrides, totemism in,
271
Malinowski, Prof. B., 320
Malugin tribe of East Kimberley, 120
Mara tribe, 26
Marduhunera tribe of West Australia, 64
Marind or Marind-Anim tribe, 358
Marithiel tribe of Northern Territory, 50
Marriage customs of Kakadu, 25
Mashona, totemism of, 416
Masingle tribe, Papua, 338
Massim branch of Melanesian race, 314
Mawata people, Papua, 337
Mbula of Nigeria, totemism of, 455
Meek, Mr. C. K., 455
Melanesia, 261
Melland, Mr. F. H., 422
Melville and Bathurst Islands, Tiwi of,
7 sqq-
Mirung tribe of East Kimberley, 120
Missouri tribe of North America, 501
Moieties defined, 4
Moiety system, 157
totemism of Ungarinyin, 97
totems, 106, 112
Moon myth, 217
Morehead district, New Guinea, 345
Mudburra tribe of Northern Territory,
25, 26, 38, 40
Mullet as totem in New Caledonia, 265
Mulluk Mulluk tribe of Northern
Territory, 50
Mutuulbuk or totem, 36
Mumuye tribe of Nigeria, totemism of,
460
Mungarai tribe of Northern Territory,
25, 26, 42
Muraian, or initiation ceremony, 29 sqq.
Murngin tribe, Northern Territory, 47
Mysore, totemism in, 400
Mysore Tribes and Castes, 400
Nahals, Central Provinces, totemism of,
390
Name tabooed at death, 19
Nangamade tribe of Kimberley
Division, 65
Nangiomeri tribe of Northern Territory,
50
Nankanse tribes of Gold Coast,
totemism of, 483
Natchez Indians of Lower Mississippi.
511
Native cats, increase ceremony for, 81
Ndebele, Southern Transvaal, totemism
of, 405
New Britain, totemism in, 322
New Caledonia, totemism in, 261
New Guinea, 329
New Hebrides, totemism in, 271
New Ireland, totemism in, 322, 323
Newton, Mr. Henry, 329
Ngainman tribe of Northern Territory,
26, 38
Ngaku tribe of South-East Australia,
183
Ngaluma tribe of West Australia, 62
Ngambar tribe of South-East Australia,
183
Ngizim of Bornu Province, Nigeria,
totemism of, 464
Ngoni, Nyasaland, totemism of, 405
Ngormbal tribe of Dampier Land, 93
Nguni (Angoni), totemism of, 405
Nigeria, totemism in, 455
North Kimberley, cave paintings in,
129
Northern Bantu, The, 439
Northern New Guinea, 352
Nuer tribe of Upper Nile, 435
Nullakun tribe of Northern Territory,
26, 44
Nura or horde-countries, 66
Nyamal tribe of West Australia, 57
Nyul-Nyul tribe of Dampier Land, 93,
95. 96
Ompela or Katanyu tribe of Cape York
Peninsula, 218, 221
Ontong Java, totemism in, 310
Oraons of Chota Nagpur, India, 373
Orokaiva, New Guinea, totemism of,
333
Oto tribe of North America, 501
Palestine, magic hand in, 151
Pandjima tribe of West Australia, 57, 59
Pandos, Central Provinces, totemism of
393
Papuans of New Guinea, 329
Parja, Central Provinces, totemism of,
391
Paul, Benjamin, 512
Pedi, totemism of, 414
Personal names of Tiwi, 17 sqq.
Piddington, Mr. Ralph, 74, 87, 88
Pidjintara tribe of South Australia, 161
Pine Creek tribe. Northern Territory,
Plums, increase ceremony for, 83
Poison-bark, increase ceremony for, 109
Powdermaker, Dr. Hortense, 323
Pukui or totem, 11, 14
Pulwaiya or totem, 191
Punjab, traces of totemism in, 401
INDEX 517
Queensland, totemism in, 188
Radcliffe-Brown, Prof., 4, 53, 55, 56, 58,
61, 63, 64, 147, 152, 174 sqq.
Radin, Mr. Paul, 502
Rain, ceremony for increase of, 109
Rainbow serpent, loi, 147
Rattray, Captain R. S., 478, 483
Rautia, Central Provinces, totemism of,
392
Reef Islands, totemism in, 301
Reinach, Salomon, 150
Reincarnation, belief in, 94
Restrictions on killing and eating
totems, 77, 95, 103
Rhodesia, totemism in, 416
Risley, Sir Herbert, 375
Rivers, W. H. R., 301
Rock-paintings, 115 ; in West Australia,
123
Roscoe, Canon John, 439, 442
Rose, Mr. H. A., 401
Rossel Island, 314
Roy, Mr. Sarat Chandra, 365, 373
Russell, Mr. R. V., 384
Salvado, Bishop, 152
San Cristoval, 283
Sandbeach or Kawadji people of Cape
York Peninsula, 217
Santa Anna, Solomon Islands, 305
Santa Cruz group, totemism in, 301
Sea serpent as totem in New Caledonia,
264
Sections and subsections, 4
Seligman, Dr. C. G., 314, 329 ; and
B. G., 431, 433
Semariji tribe of Papua, 345
Sepik River, New Guinea, 352
Sex totems, 161, 186
Sexual licence as a totem, 230
Shark as totem in New Caledonia, 266
Sharp, Mr. Lauriston, 231
Sheane, Mr. H., 424
Shilluk tribe of Upper Nile, 431
Shortland Islands, totemism in, 302
Sierra Leone, totemism in, 496
Smith, Rev. E. W., 419
Social totems, 159
Solomon Islands, totemism in, 283,
303
Sotho (Basuto), totemism of, 405
South Australia, totemism in, 155
Spain, cave-paintings in, 150
Spencer, Sir Baldwin, 7, 21, 251
Spirit-children beliefs, 70, 93, loi, 106,
118, 166
Split-totems, 377
Stanner, W. E. H., 50
Stayt, Mr. H. A., 408
Swanton, Mr. John R., 508
Tabar Islands, 324
Taboo on totemic animal or plant at
death, 40
Talbot, Mr. P. A., 476
Talu or increase rites, 71
Talii or totem centres, 58, 59
Tambun or horde-country, 97
Tanna, New Hebrides, totemism in, 281
Theal, Dr., 420
Thomas, Mr. N. W., 477, 496
Thomson, Mr. Donald F., 219
Thonga clans, no totems among, 415
Thunder as totem in New Caledonia,
207
Tikopia, totemism in, 284
Timne, Sierra Leone, totemism of, 496
Tiwi of Melville and Bathurst Islands,
7 sqq.
Totemic animal or plant taboo at death,
40
Hero Cults in Cape York
Peninsula, 213
mythology, 59, 82, 83, 84, 85, 87,
88, 99, 104, 107, 112, 117, 165, 171,
175, 179, 200, 209, 213, 221, 2B7, 316,
324, 385, 479, 509
Rock-paintings in West Australia,
123
Tribes and Castes of the Central
Provinces of India, 384
Trobriand Islands, 314, 320
Udaipur State, Pando tribe of, 393
Uganda, Lango tribe of, 429, 439
Unambal tribe of Prince Regent River,
140
Ungarinyin tribe of Kimberley, 96, 140
Urabunna tribe, 9
Uvea, Loyalty Islands, 269
Vanikolo, totemism in, 301
Waduman tribe of Northern Territory,
25, 26, 38
Walaga festival, 331
Wallabies, increase ceremony for, 84
Wanderings in Wild Australia, 251
Warner, Dr. W. Lloyd, 47, 48, 49
Warrai tribe. Alligator River district, 26,
36
Wasida tribe, Papua, 333
Water-lilies, increase ceremony for, 108
Webb, T. Theodor, 44, 49
Wemba tribe of Northern Rhodesia, 424
Wembria tribe of Forrest River district,
105
Westcrmann, Prof., 431, 494
Western tribes of South Australia, 161
Wierdi tribe of Clermont, Queensland,
245
Wik-Munkan tribe of Queensland, 188
5i8 INDEX
Wik-Nantjara tribe of Queensland, i88
193
Wik-Natanya tribe of Queensland, 188
Wik-Natera tribe of Queensland, 188,
216
Williams, Mr. F. E.. 333, 345
Wilson- Haffenden, Captain J. R., 471
Wilyaril rite, 157
Winnebago Indians, totemism of, 501
Wirngir tribes of Forrest River district,
106
Wirz, Dr. P., 358
Wolyamiri tribe of Forrest River district,
no, 114
Wondyina or rainbow serpent, loi
Wongkongaru tribe of South Australia,
9, 168-169
Worgait tribe of Northern Territory, 25,
26, 41
Worm as totem in New Caledonia, 266
Wulwullam tribe, or Pine Creek tribe of
Northern Territory, 26, 41
Wurara tribe of Kimberley, 96, 140
VVutati tribe of Cape York Peninsula,
218
Yauor tribe of Kimberley Division, 66, 69
Yeidji (Yeithi) tribe of Forrest River
district, 105
Yilamo, or mythical ancestors, 221
Yintjingga tribe of Cape York Penin-
sula, 218
Yir-Yoront tribe of Cape York Penin-
sula, 231
Yukumbil tribe of South-East Australia,
174. 185
Yungman tribe, 26 of Northern Terri-
tory, 43
THE END
Pnntecl in G?-eai Britain by R. & R. Ci.aki;, Limited, Ediiibw-gh
