{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__fast___the_houdini_messages.pdf","mytitle":"The Houdini Messages","mylang":"de"}
THE
HOUDINI MESSAGES
The Facts
Concerning the lit ssage~
I?E~(’f~itJC(1~
Through the
4frduiu,~Iupof
ARThUR FORD
By FRANCiS It, FAsT
Copyright 1929. Prhit~ttin U.S.A.
Fourth Printing
Copyright In Australia 193?
BRM~ISu~r;u~
ThE EUL~C~
SPEC!A~Ai
THE
HOUDINI MESSAGES
The Facts
Concerning the Messages
Received Through the
Mediums/tip of
ARTHUR FORD
BY
FRANCIS R. FAST
The detailed account of the Second Message is taken
from stenographic records made at the sittings by
Mr. John W. Stafford, Associate Editor Scientific
American, a~dMr, Fast,
K~
c~
OF VNr $r’~rx-
~ ro rifE coivr7?AflY~,
I WiVH 7.0 ,DEC48RL r’~r rw~.
,W ifJ Z/YriRE7~ #?N~P /IY
7N~E .R~1?ZZ.D ~fpO/V &‘.EQL’Z/iOE,
~ ro t’fE 3Y .i9RrN~i/? Foiiz,,,
is -~‘~ coRl?ZCr i~1.EB$AG~,E PRE-.
~ .VETWEEN N7~.)(Ot,DFw/
AN.D .NYSELP.
1j~
~ ~OA44I~-~~.
Fac.simile of statement made by Mrs. Houdini the day
alter receipt of the message. Witnesses: Mr. IL R. Zander,
Representative of United Press; Mrs. Minnie Chester, life.
long friend of Mrs. Houdini and Mr. John W. Stafiord,
Associate Editor of Scientific American.
TilE HOUDINI MESSAGES
—000—
The First Message
THAT a thoroughly clear understanding may be had
of the much discussed message from Harry Houdini
for which his wife and certainly the world has waited, it
is apparently necessary to re~statethe facts concerning a
message preceding this one, with which the Houdini
name is connected, and which we shall call the first
message. Many persons, and the serious.minded portion
of the press as well, have in some cases badly confused
the two messages. The facts of the first message are these:
On the evening of February 8, 1928, in a private
circle sitting with Arthur Ford in Now York, “Fletcher,”
Ford’s control, came through the medium while in
trance, saying that a woman was there with him, one
whom he had not seen before. “She is eager to say one
word,” he repeated. “She tells me that she is the Mother
of Harry Weiss, known as Houdini,” and then she went
on to say: ‘For many years my son waited for one word
which I was to send back. He never got it. He always
said that if he could get that he would believe. The
code which he gave to his wife can come from none
save himself, yet the conditions which have developed
in the family make it necessary for me to get my code
word through first. If the family acts upon that he will
be free and able to speak for himself. This is the word
—“FORGIVE.” Capitalize that and put it in quotation
marks. His wife knew the word, and no one else in all
1~
1’
the world knew it. Ask her if the word which I tried to
get back all these years was not “Forgive.” I have tried
innumerable times to say it to him. Now that he is here
with me I am able to get it through. Tonight I give it
to you, and Beatrice Houdini will declare it to be
true.’”
It is a matter of history, and there is no need to reiter-
ate the facts in detail, except to add that Mrs. Houdini
acknowledged the entire correctness of this message,
and tile following day stated publicly over her signature
that this was “the sole communication received among
thousands up to that time that contained the one secret
key-word known only to Houdini, his Mother, and my.
self. I can say that had it but come to Houdini in his
lifetime, it would have changed the whole course of his
career.” Houdini said at one time, before his end, “what
would be more wonderful to me than to be able to con-
verse with my beloved Mother?”
Lest it be considered that the simple key.word “For.
give” was all that the message contained, which would
have been of slight evidential value in itself, be it said
that the bulk of the message comprised facto in detail of
an intimate family nature which have remained for Mrs.
Houdini and her husband’s relatives to interpret the
meaning of, and in consideration of which they are
omitted from this as from previous accounts.
“She is going now,” concluded Fletcher, referring
evidently to the Mother, “and she says that since this
message has come through, it will open the channel for
the other.” This was taken at the time to refer to the
second message pact, as it may be termed, the one estab.
lished between Houdini and his wife.
141
The Second Message
THE important bearing of the first message on that
which was to follow will be plainly seen. It may be
rightly inferred that the family of Harry Houdini car-
ried out the conditions imposed by the first message, so
as to make possible the unfoldment of the second.
The first word of the second message was given to a
group of friends sitting with Arthur Ford early in No-
vember, 1928. The message in its entirety came through
during eight separate sittings, covering a period of two
and one.half months. Four of the sittings were with
groups of friends and four with individuals—one sitting
with a New York physician, and three with Mr. Hamil-
ton Emmons of England, visiting here at the time.
The method employed by Fletcher, the medium’s con-
trol, was to give out the words as they came, and as the
opportunity offered. Seldom more than one word came
at the beginning, and frequently use intervals were as
far as two weeks or more apart.
“The first word, ‘ROSABELLE,’ said Fletcher, “is
the one that is going to unlock the rest.” Two weeks
later a second word was added, “NOW,” and on Decem-
ber 18th, another word. Said Fletcher: “There is a lady
I have been working with for a long time (presumably
Houdini’s Mother) and it is only one word that I get
tonight, ‘LOOK.’ That is the sixth word in the code.”
At a sitting one week later, he askedto know how many
words had come in all, and repeating those already given
he said, “The word ‘NOW’ does not belong.” This was
later confirmed by a letter received from Mr. Hamilton
[51
Emmons before his return to England, wherein he
writes: “At a sitting with Ford this afternoon, Fletcher
told me how the sequence of nine words of the Houdini
message stood, but that the word ‘NOW’ was to be put in
brackets as uncertain. The tenth word he thought had
something to do with ‘response,’ but he was uncertain
about that also.”
It is interesting to note that at the earliest of the
Hamihton Emmons sittings the first three words were
given as “COME,” “RIGHT,” and “NOW.” At the second
sitting, Fletcher asked that the two first words be can.
celled, leaving only “NOW,” but asked that four new
words lie added — “ROSABELLE,” “ANSWER,”
“PRAY,” and “TELL.”
In tile group-sitting next to tile final one of January
5, 1929, when the message was delivered complete, and
in the correct 8equence, Fletcher said, “Let me give you
the words from the beginning, because I have to work
hard to get them.” In what may be called this semi-final
grouping of the words, there were but two errors, con-
sisting of transposing only; the third and fourth words,
and the last four words, of the final ten. “He tells me
now,” he continued, “that he has put the next five
words, which explain these, in French. I have not got
them yet. I want to give you the other words now be-
cause, working on the French words, I may forget the
others.”
The details of the development, or gradual building
up of this message, taken mostly from stenographic re-
cords of the sittings, are given in order that those inter.
ested may know that the message did not arrive full
crown, like Minerva from the head of Jupiter.
[6]
At the final Bitting on the evening of January 5th,
Fletcher continued: “Ho tells me it has taken him three
months working out of the confusion to get these words
through, and that at no time has he been able to do any.
thing without his Mother’s and my help. ‘TELL,’ that is
the last word! You now have ten words. Go over them
carefully. It has been a hard job getting them through,
but I tell you, he said, fairly shouting, “they are right!
Now he wants to dictate the exact message you are to
take to his wife. This is to be written down in long-
hand, no notes.”
Fletcher then asked the time, which was 9:23 P.M.
He said that this was to be noted and that the medium
was in deep trance, controlled by Fletcher, that his pulse
was at that moment 63, which he asked to have verified,
also that tile names of those present be set down. Flet-
cher continued: “A man who says he is Harry Houdini,
but whose real name was Ehrich Weiss, is here, and
wishes to send to his wife, Beatrice Houdini, the ten-
word code, which he agreed to do if it were possible for
him to communicate. He says you are to take this mes-
sage to her, and, upon acceptance of it, he wishes her to
follow out the plan they agreed upon before his passing.
This is the code:
ROSABELLE.ANSWER.TELL-PRAY-ANSWER-
LOOK-TELL-ANSWER-ANSWER-TELL!
The letter was signed by the four persons present at
the sitting: Francis R. Fast, John W. Stafford, Mrs. Helen
E. Morris, and Mrs. Dorothy Stafford. Fletcher went on
to say: “That last is the message which is to go to his
wife. He wants it signed in ink by each one present. He
[7]
says the code is known only to him and to his wife, and
and that no one on earth but these two know it. He says
there is no danger on that score, and that she must make
it public. It must come from her; you are nothing more
than agents. He says that when this comes through there
will be a veritable storm, that many will seek to destroy
her and she will be accused of everything that is not
good, but she is honest enough to keep the pact which
they repeated over and over before his death. The last
words he spoke were those used in going over this to.
gether so that they would understand it clearly. ‘I know,’
he says, ‘that she will be happy, because neither of us
believed that it would be possible.”
“Her husband says that on receipt of this message she
must set a time, as soon as possible, when she will sit
with this instrument while I, Fletcher, speak to her, and
after he has repeated this message to her, she is to return
a code to him which will be understood by her and by
him alone. The code that will be returned will be a sup.
plement to this code, and the two together will spell a
word which sums it all up, and that word will be the
message that he wants to send back. He refuses to give
that word until he gives it to her.”
Two members of the group, Mr. Fast and Mr. Staf-
ford, both strangers to Mrs. Houdini, as were all of the
sitters, delivered the message to her at her home the fol.
lowing day. She lay on a couch suffering from a fall sus-
tained a week before, and a troublesome cold. To say
that she was other than clear-minded, withal, is beside
the mark. Dropping the letter to her side, and stirred
with emotion, she said, “It is right!” She paused. “Did
he say ‘ROSABELLE’?” Mrs. Houdini asked. “Yes,” was
[81
the answer. “My God!” she exclaimed. “What else did
he say?” Asking for more details concerning the mes-
sage, she then undertook to carry out the plan agreed
upon with her husband. The meeting above referred to
was arranged for the second day following. The medium,
Arthur Ford, accompanied by three members of his
group and a representative of the United Press went to
Mrs. Houdini’s home, and, with two of her friends,
gathered at her side.
In a short time tile voice of Fletcher same through.
“This man is coming now,” he says, “the same one who
came the other night. He tells me to say ‘Hello, Bess,
sweetheart,’ and he wants to repeat the message and
finish it for you. Time code,” he says, “is one that you
used to use in one of your secret mind-reading acts.”
Repeating the ten words to her he said, “He wants you
to tell him whether they are right or not.” “Yes,” re-
plied Mrs. Houdini, “they are.” “He smiles and says,
‘thank you,’ now I can go on,” continued Fletcher. “Ho
tells you to take off your wedding-ring and tell them
what ROSABELLE means.” Drawing her left hand from
under the cover she took off the ring, and, holding it be-
fore her, sang in a small voice:
“Rosabelle, sweet Rosabehle,
I love you more than I can tell;
O’er me you cast a spell,
I love you! My Rosabelle!”
“He says, ‘I thank you, darling. The first time I heard
you sing that was in our first show together years ago.’”
Mrs. Houdini nodded her head in assent. “Then,” said
Fletcher, “there is something that he wants to tell me
that no one but his wife knows. He smiles now and
[91
shows me a picture and draws the curtain so, or in this
manner.”
That evidently was the clue for the unfoldment of the
next part of the code, for Mrs. Houdini responded in
French, “Je tire Ic rideau comme Ca.” “And now the
nine words beside ROSABELLE spell a word in our
code.”
Then Fletcher, quoting Houdini word for word, ex-
plained the code: “Time second word in our code was
‘ANSWER.’ ‘B’ is the seco:id letter of the alphabet, so
‘ANSWER’ spells ‘B.’ The next word in the code is
‘TELL,’ and time fifth letter in time alphabet is ‘E.’ The
twelfth letter in the alphabet is ‘L’ and to make up
twelve we have to use the first and second words of the
code.”
Continuing in this intricate way to the end he said:
“The message I want to send back to my wife is ‘ROSA-
BELLE, BELIEVE!’ Is that right?” asked Fletcher.
“Yes,” answered Mrs. Houdini with great feeling.
Fletcher, concluding, repeated that wh~ichwps being
given him: “He says, ‘tell the whole world that Harry
Houdini still lives and will prove it a thousand times
and more.’ He is pretty excited. He says: ‘I was per-
fectly honest and sincere though I resorted to tricks, for
time simple reason that I did not believe it true, and no
more than was justifiable. I am now sincere in sending
this through in my desire to undo. Tell all those who
lost faith because of my mistake to lay hold again of
hope, and to live with the knowledge that life is con-
tinuous. That is my message to the world, through my
wife and through this instrument’.”
[10]
This may be said to comprise a complete account of
the transmitting of the Houdini message. A few words
concerning the code itself might not be out of place.
The Code
SOME persons, judging hastily, have made much over
the fact that the ten words of the code for the
twenty-six letters of the alphabet were published in a
book by Harold Kellock on “Houdini: His Life Story.”
This code follows:
The Code
1. Pray A
2 Answer B Key to the Code
3. Say C Answer B
4. Now D Tell E
5 Tell E Pray, answer (1 and 2) L
6. Please F Look I
7. Speak G Tell E
8. Quickly H Answer, answer (2 and 2) V
9. Look I Tell E
10. Be quick 3
As will be seen, the code agreed upon consists of 10
words representing the first 10 letters of the alphabet.
For the eleventh letter the code is one-one, for the
twelfth, one.two, and so on, the ten words in this way
answering for the full alphabet.
This code was so much of a secret, Mrs. Houdini has
said, that “Even time stage-hands wherever we appeared
knew the words, but no one except Houdini and myself
knew the cipher, or tile key, to the code which we had
arranged from these ten words, and its complete appli-
cation.”
[11]
Be it also made quite clear that neither the word
ROSABELLE nor the word BELIEVE had been printed
anywhere, nor appeared before this in connection with
the Houdini message. That the medium himself was
shown tile printed code for the first time, three days
after the message came, is also a matter of record.
It will be observed that out of the ten words in the
printed list, but four were selected in building up the
secret code between the Houdinis, that these four words
were used in repetition, one word appearing three time~
time other four times, and that a particular sequence was
followed. Had one of these different words been out of
sequence, the spelling of time word BELIEVE would
either have been garbled entirely, or another word alto.
gether might have resulted. Using the ten-word code
list as a basis, many words and sentences could he built
up out of the thousands of possible combinations, yet
the one unique set of words studiously worked out by
the Houdinis was brought through.
The Attacks
was inevitable that attacks would be made on the
~ veracity of time message. From the moment that Mrs.
Houdini pronounced time message genuine, there began a
flood of attack ranging from the ludicrous to the vicious.
Any and all weapons from bribery to blackmail were
thought legitimate and were brought into use.
It was hardly conceivable, however, that an incident
having no remote connection with the message itself,
with the medium, nor with the subject of Spiritualism,
[12]
would be employed as the tool for the first and the most
vicious of these attacks, emanating in this case from a
certain tabloid newspaper.
Some years ago Mr. and Mrs. Houdini met and had
befriended an elderly man, former city editor of a New
York newspaper, then serving a life 8entence in prison.
These kindly attentions Mrs. Houdini had continued.
Seeing the prospect of a series of sensational stories, a
woman representative of the paper was assigned to call
1 on Mrs. Houdini. The woman pressed her for copies of
letters from the aforementioned man which time reporter
believed to be of a romantic nature. The woman re-
peated her visits and her peladings. She came out again
the day before Mrs. Houdini’s sitting for the message.
She begged for the letters which she said she had been
instructed to get at all costs. She was again put off.
The matter uppermost in Mrs. Houdini’s mind then
came up, the letter she had received the day before with
the ten words of the as yet undecoded message. Time
woman asked to be present at the sitting. Her request
was granted, and she wrote a full and accurate account
of it for her paper that evening, making no mention of
the fact subsequently claimed, that she had the message
complete 24 hours before. Instead, and in the presence
of all the other sitters, she asked the only other press
representative present to hold back his account for an
hour, explaining that she had not yet been able to write
up her story.
The day following, the woman came out again and
teased Mrs. Houdini for the letters, and endeavoured
also to get her to sign over tile rights of her life-story as
[13]
well. Becoming angry, Mrs. Houdini ordered the woman
from her home, as a result of which the woman, on leav-
ing, threatened to “get even” by writing the whole story
of the message as a “hoax” the following day.
Frustrated thus far, she conceived the idea of the pos.
sibility of using Ford by a process of intimidation. She
called him by telephone that evening on the pretext of
having “important news” for him, and asked that he see
her, which he declined, having a lecture engagement out
of town that evening. Continuing, she told him that
“Bess” Houdini had ordered her out of her house that
day, and that she had promised her chief to get certain
much.wanted letters that night. Expressing no concern
in a matter not his, Ford asked the meaning of her
threatening attitude. She replied that unless he exerted
pressure on Mrs. Houdini to release the letters, she
would “expose” the message as a “hoax” the next day.
Unwilling to be intimidated or to become a party to a
plan to blackmail Mrs. Houdini, Ford terminated the
conversation with three short words.
In revenge, and true to promise, the tabloid printed a
fictitious and lurid tale next morning to the effect that
Ford had “confessed” the message as fraudulent before
three of the paper’s representatives the night before.
Bold as it was, time story fell apart of its Own weight and
was ignored by the reputable press of New York, who
had treated the news of the message itself with dignity
and fairness, refusing altogether to print any of the
offensive tabloid matter.
Four days later, a second attempt to blackmail was
made by the same reporter, this time on a member of
[14]
the Ford group. In other cases money was offered for
false testimony that the code had been known by one
person or another and was so divulged.
But not all of the attacks were of so sordid a nature.
A note of humor was struck by a fish dealer being
brought into the case with more haste than discretion by
a local vaudeville mind-reader. The man’s rehearsed
story was to the effect that someone had told him that
someone else had known time code and so had told the
medium. The story was treated on all sides with just
derision.
For the fraternity of magicians in general, be it said
that from the beginning they maintained a notably dis.
creet silence in time matter, which does them great credit.
Unbelievable as it may seem, there emerged from
within the fold of Spiritualism itself a minor few who,
whatever their motive, openly joined the ranks of the
hostile newspaper. These few, three in number, were
members of the United Spiritualist League of New York
City, a local group organized, paradoxically, for the
mutual protection of mediums. Working in cohort with
their new-found friends of the press, they held a spuri-
ous meeting at which Arthur Ford’s membership was
annulled. In time meantime, the Board of Trustees of the
First Spiritualist Church, of which Arthur Ford was
leader, had met and heard the full story of time message
at first hand, as well as the sensational newspaper story,
and put on record their full confidence in him and his
part in the matter.
Unrelenting, the leader of the League group who was
incidentally a member of the First Cliurth, decided to
1 15 1
carry his warfare into the Church itself. Enlisting the
aid of the three anonymous members, formal charges
were brought asking for Ford’s dismissal as minister. The
charges were entirely vague and unspecified, and the
names of the signers were concealed and have remained
so. In a situation which had thus become serious, and
yet was absurd on the face of it, the Board of Trustees
of the Church and the governing board of the United
Spiritualist League, to whom Ford had appealed against
the action of the minority group, decided to take joint
action on the charges. Although Ford was on hand, as
well as his attorney and many friends, to testify to the
facts in time case, not one of the persons who had filed the
charges was present, two of them being reported as out
of town, nor were specific charges of any kind whatso-
ever made other than the fabricated newspaper story.
The newspaper woman herself and the two supposed
listeners were called, but their testimony was of so con-
tradictory and conflicting a nature that it failed entirely
to carry conviction.
Four days previous to this particular meeting, there
occurred perhaps the culminating dramatic episode in
what may justly be called the most vicious and revenge-
ful journalistic attack on any movement, and on Spirit-
ualism in particular, that modern newspaper history
bears record of.
A man was found who confessed under oath that he
had been hired to impersonate Ford at time alleged inter-
view, under the pretence that he was thereby aiding
Mrs. Houdini in some way and that he had been paid
only part of the sum promised him.
[16]
By extending immunity to him against criminal prose-
cution for impersonating another, he gave full and sub.
stantiating details of the whole transaction, and his part
in it.
The man’s confession was read by Ford’s attorney to
the assembled boards, bringing the matter to a climax.
At adjourned meetings both boards, acting separately,
drew resolutions giving Ford entire clearance of any
and all charges against him in connection with the Hou-
dini message. At the following Sunday meeting of the
First Spiritualist Church these resolutions were read to
the assembled congregation by the President of the
Board of Trustees.
Though hesitant to extend the telling of so sordid an
episode as this in connection with but one of the at-
tempts to vitiate the Houdini message, there remains
only to add the significant item that the dismissal of the
three persons in question being asked for by their fellow
members in the United Spiritualist League, they each
resigned before such action could be taken, in prefer.
ence to facing the charges.
Mrs. Houdini
IT is altogether fitting that our attention be turned to
the one person most of all concerned in the matter,
her reactions to the message and her reflections upon it.
The day after the receipt of the message, Mrs. Houdini
issued the following statement at her home:
[17 1
“Regardless of au statements to the contrary, I wish
to declare that the message, in its entirety, and in the
agreed.upon sequence, given to me by Arthur Ford, is
the correct message pre.arrangad between Mr. lion.
dm1 and myself.
(Signed)
BEATRICE HoUDINI.”
Witnessed:
HARRY R. ZANDER.
MINNIE CHESTER.
JOhN W. STAFFORD.
Mrs. Houdini’s attitude has ‘been that of an honest
skeptic who had no alternative but to accept the message
since it was the one agreed upon. She has stoutly main-
tained in timelace of the cruelest opposition that no one
but hersell could possibiy have known the contents of
time message sealed in her vault. Even close friends
urged that at any cost she deny the message as the cor-
rect one on time pLa that it would undo all that her hus-
band had stood for. To this she has replied, “It was what
he wanted me to do, and I am doing it. Nothing will
change my belief until it is proved some other way.”
She has affirmed conclusively that no one but her hus-
band and herself could possibly have known the details
of the code, that neither “overtly nor covertly could it
have been gleaned.”
The world in general, and the magazines that offered
large sums of money for the correct message, had suffi.
cient faith in the reliability and honor of Mrs. Houdini
before this time to stake their all, and it is rather too
late now to turn about-face and suddenly hurl all man-
ner of loose charges of collusion, duplicity and worse at
Mrs. Houdini. It is to her credit that she has borne with
so much courage the brunt of these vicious attacks.
[18]
With reference to the considerable sums offered’ by
‘magazines and others for the correct message, Ford has
accepted no monetary consideration at all, small or
large, and has declined to make claim of any kind for
these prize moneys.
To those who have offered mind-reading and other
similar explanations for time messages; Mrs. Houdini
mentioned time fact that there are two more pre-arranged
messages by Houdini. “They are in the same code as
that received by me. One is to be sent to Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle and the other to Remegius Weiss, of Phil-
adelphia. I consider it a fit challenge to the magicians
and psychics who doubt the genuineness of my message
to bring eitimer or both of these messages through.”
Muscle reading, or motor automatism, has been
brought forward as a possible explanation of the means
whereby the medium might have obtained the code. An
interesting suggestion but for the fact that during the
transmission of time first ten words of time message, Mrs.
Houdini was not present; her whereabouts indeed were
not known. During the second part, the seance at her
home, the medium sat apart from Mrs. Houdini, and did
not as much as touch her hand during the sitting.
Of Houdini himself, Mrs.~
Houdini has stated that he
always believed a little bit in his own heart, and more
timan she did, for the atmosphere wherein she was
brought up disapproved of these things very much.
Houdini is quoted as having said:“Gladly would I be-
lieve in Spiritualism if it could prove its claims.”
Commenting on the fact that Houdini should have
left a cipher behind which would be the test of his re-
[19]
turn, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle said, very aptly, “This ac-
tion in itself shows that his objections to Spiritualism
were not very deep, since one does not propose to use
what one really condemns.”
Of the attacks in general Mrs. Houdini has remarked:
“They accuse me of betraying time most sacred trust of
my life, and of making a fool of the man Iloved. There
was no break in the happiness of our 37 years of mar-
ried life.”
It would be perhaps difficult to express Mrs. Houdini’s
attitude more completely timan in the letter which fol-
lows, a letter appropriately enough written to and
printed in the same attacking newspaper eleven days
after the receipt of the message:
Dear Mr. Walter Winchell:
This letter is not for publicity. I do not need pub.
licity. I want to let Houdini’s old friends know that I
did not betray his trust.
I era writing you this personally because I wish to
tell you emphatically that I was no party to any fraud.
Now regarding the seance: For two years I have
been praying to receive the message from my hus-
band; for two years every day I have received mes-
sages from all parts o/the world. Had I wanted a
publicity stunt I could no doubt have chosen any of
these sensational messages. When I repudiated these
messages no one said a word, excepting the writers
who said I did not have the nerve to admit the truth.
When the real message, THE message that Houdini
and I agreed upon, came to me, and I accepted it as
the truth, I was greeted with jeers. Why? Those who
denounced the entire thing as a fraud claim that I
had given Mr. Arthur Ford the message. If Mr. Ford
said his I brand him a liar. Mr. Ford has stoutly de-
nied saying this ugly thing, and knowing the reporter
as well as I do I prefer to believe Mr. Ford. Others
say the message has been common property and
known to them for some time. Why do they tell me
[20]
this now, when they know my heart was hungry for
the true words from my husband?
The many stories told about me I have no way to
tell the world the truth of or the untruth, for I have
no paper at my beck and call; everyone has a different
opinion of how the message was obtained. With all
these different tales I would not even argue. However,
when anyone accuses me of GIVING the words that
my husband and I labored so long to convince our-
selves of the truth of communication, then I will fight
and fight until the breath leaves my body.
If anyone claim I gave the code, 1 can only repeat
they lie. Why should I want to cheat myself? I do not
need publicity. I have no intention of going on the
stage, or, as some paper said, on a lecture tour. My
husband made it possible for me to live in the greatest
comfort. I do not need to earn money. I have gotten
the message I have been waiting for from my beloved,
how, if not by spiritual aid, I do not know.
And now, after I told the world that I had received
the true message, everyone seems to have known of
the code, yet itever told me. They left it for Mr. Ford
to tell me, and I ens accused of giving the words. It is
all so confusing. In conclusion, may I say that God
and Houdini and I know that I did not betray my
trust. For the rest of the world I really ought not to
care a hang, but somehow I do, therefore this letter.
Forgive its length.
Sincerely yours,
BEATRICZ HOcDINZ.”
A year and two months after the above was written,
the press throughout the United States and elsewhere
gave considerable notice to a statement attributed to
Mrs. Houdini to the effect that she had renounced all
belief in the possibility of communication with her dead
husband.
When the facts were looked into, it appears that dur-
ing luncheon at an hotel in Miami, Florida, a casual con-
versation in which Mrs. Houdini took part, had been con-
siderably enlarged upon by a local newspaper reporter.
(21]
In none of time printed versions of this incident was trace
to be found of any reference to the message from Hou-
dini which his wife had accepted and vigorously de-
fended a year or more before. Both the press and the
general public were justly mystified.
The first light was shed on the matter through an in-
terview with Mrs. Houdini printed in the Brooklyn
Daily Eagle a short time after, April third, 1930. This
interview was indeed the lament of Rachel, but this time
for a husband who had gone, and the reality of whose
survival she had hoped for continuing evidence of. Ap-
parently this had been denied her. “If Houdini lives in a
spirit world, he would have helped me. He loved me too
much to see me suffer,” she said. Whatever the cause of
her sufferings, pressure from without or yearnings with-
in, the way must indeed have been made hard for her
since his passing. Doubt and despair hovered over all.
But whatever else, the message that had come to her a
year before was not to be refuted. Again she made plain
in the Brooklyn Daily Eagle interview that “the secret
message we had agreed upon was finally transmitted to
me by Arthur Ford.”If a possible keynote to her mingled
feelings were to be sought, it could best be summed up
in her appealing question as to why he had not “brought
more to me than the message.”
Knowing as much, and yet so little as some of us do
about these things, echo might well answer—why indeed
should it be thus?
[22]
Conclusion
AS has been said, it is useless for the opponents of
Spiritualism to belittle a message given to and ac-
cepted by the only one who could confirm it. It is totally
wide of time mark and of no avail whatsoever for any
other individual or for the public in general to pro.
flounce judgment on its correctness or otherwise. At no
time has the medium himself presumed as much, In his
first public address following the message, he stated: “If
asked to say on oath whether I know beyond the shadow
of a doubt that I actually got the Houdini message, I
could not do so except on the basis of Mrs. Houdini’s
statement, and you cannot do more.” The same thought
was repeated later writing editorially, “Frankly, I do
not know whether I got the Houdini code message or
not; Mrs. Houdini says I did, and the matter rests there.”
Enough has Imappened in these latter years in the way
of outstanding demonstrations of psychic phenomena to
give anyone ample reason to alter any preconceived no-
tions about these things, what with the clear-cut and as
yet unassailable results in the “Margery” case alone, on
which the whole argument for survival and communica-
tion may rest secure. En like category will the Houdini
message stand. So far no shred of evidence, whatever,
has been offered against its genuineness, and it must
stand as genuine until such evidence, clear and incon.
trovertible, is forthcoming.
What we appear to be faced with is the fact that
memory is persistent and immortal. The body of cvi-
[23j
30328500373328
dence for survival is increasing at an important rate, and
can only wilfully be ignored. Today, as never before, tile
burden of proof i~
Ofl tile skeptic.
Quoting a ~listinguishecl contemporary, it is a little
curious that the thought of the proI)aIiiity of a future
life should make some people so angry and sometimes
terrified. “People demand evidence,” says Dr. John
Lamond. “What i~
the evidence they wish? It is not so
much the evidence that is needed, as it is tile courage to
admit that the evidence exists once that evidence has
J)eefl gtVefl.”
Spiritualism no longer is time hidden study of time few.
nor time pursuit of time fanatic. Instead, that future exist-
ence which very surely lies ahead •for every mortal has
increasingly become time serious concern of every one of
us. The widespread interest in this message alone, anti
the very attacks upon it, bear sufficient witness to that.
This case should prove for all time the utter futility
of any attempt at mass conversion of the fact of survival
by any means whatsoever, so long as the human being
must of necessity be the agent or participant in one way
or another.
It is and shall remain a matter of intlivnhmal experi-
ence. As has been said by that eminent scientist, Dr.
Alfred Russell Wallace, co-discoverer with Charles Dar-
win of time Origin of Species, “The cardinal principle of
Spiritualism is that everyone must find out time truth for
himself. It snakes no claims to he received on hearsay
evidence, but demands that it be not accepted without
patient, honest and fearless inquiry.”
[24 }
L1TERATUIIE FOR Tl:IE STUDENT.
Suggested by
ARTIIUR FORD
EVIDENTIAL AND ILISTORICAL.
l’hey Shall lIe Comforted Barlnmndl
Station A~trnl
Toward the Stars flm-a*lky
New flevelatloum Cmuumn l)oylc
Toreimbearers of SpiritunUsm St. Chair Stol’ort
IliHtnry of Spiritualism Cournum l)oyle
Gate of lli,membrnnee 1lligli.1J~ntI
I). I). home, the Medium Conan I)oyle
Why I believe in Personal Immortality Sir Oliver Lodge
Muierhutizat ion S~ltreu~ek.Nnvring
l)rama of Lifu, After J)eath . . Ltmwtomi (Unit mmd Co., New York)
Edge of Etheric Fludiny
131 BLICA L AND ItI~LIGIOUS.
Ancient Lights St. Claim’ Stolu.mrt
i’syeluie l’beumnmeurn numul Christian Church Tweet1ah~
My Ativemitmure hu,to Spiritualism Rev. tee lIowumr~l
Psychic Power, of Christ j. S. M. Ward
Rock of Truth Fhmilky
MEI)JUMSIiIP.
K..y to Psychic I)evelopment Delta Saunadhi
Mediuumsimip mu nil I)%,,Iopsneuut WnlI is
Psychics und Meulhmms Tubby
l’sychology of Medium,hit’ Leaf
Pill LOSOP1IICAL.
Scm-i-ct Path Paul liruntoim
Spirit Teachlogs tim lUt ftII
‘L’eri iumnm Orgainmm O’pensky
I’~yrhicI’tmmh)n,phy I)e lirath
Order front
PSYChIC NEWS PIIESS,
144 111gb Iloiborn, London, W.C.I,
Or
ANGUS AN!) I1OBEItTSON, Sydney.
•u*flpult.D * LiWiS Lt. fliNt, SYDNIY 9*1* H,:
