{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__drown___science_and_philosophy_of_the_drown_radio_therapy.pdf","mytitle":"Science And Philosophy Of The Drown Radio Therapy","mylang":"de"}
Copyright, 1938
by Ruth B. Drown
First Printing 1937
Published by Drown Laboratories
1358 No. La Brea
·Hollywood, Calif.
RUTH B. DROWN
Dedicated to those faithful
friends throughout the world
who have constantly sought
to bring this new work to
the attention of humanity
FOREWORD
INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER
CONTENTS
I LIFE AS AN ENERGY,
A CONSCIOUSNESS AND A SUBSTANCE
Il LIFE FORCE AND MAGNETISM IN RELATION
TO THE BODY
Ill THE CHEMISTRY, PHYSICS AND METAPHYSICS
OF THE BODY
IV RADIO-VISION PHOTOGRAPHS
V DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT
LIST OF PLATES
PAGE
7
9
33
I RUTH B. DROWN FRONTISPIECE
FACING PAGE
II THE DROWN DIAGNOSTIC AND THERAPEUTIC
INSTRUMENT
III THE DROWN RADIO-VISION INSTRUMENT, USED
FOR PHOTOGRAPHING INTERNAL PORTIONS OF
THE BODY
IV PHOTOGRAPH OF THE PYLORIC END OF THE
STOMACH AND DUODENUM, MADE WITH THE
DROWN RADIO-VISION INSTRUMENT
33
58
61
FOREWORD
I AM SEEKING some way to write about Life. One who is
busy living life seldom finds time enough to write
about that which he truly learns, and put it into words so
that others may be able to acquire his viewpoint.
For, after all, it is only telling Life as one sees it, and
giving glimpses of it along the way, that helps others to
recognize_the sign-posts so that they may become slightly
familiar with the path that leadsus all into the light of day.
We should remember always that there are those who
have gone ahead of us; if they have found at-one-ment and
freedom from bondage, so may we hope for the same re~
sults if we put forth the same kind and amount of effort
needed to supply that result.
It seemsalmost futile to try to correlate a writing about
the experiencesof one's life, but an attempt at giving forth
a few of the essentialparts may prove not too tiring.
Today I have been discussing my work, which deals
with the increasing of the vibratory harmonies of the body.
One of those who was present is a teacher of Life and its
principles, one who is passing along to the world that
which she has been given. I was asked why I did not write
even a smallbooklet in which I could present to those inter-
ested a general outline of my views.
The idea seems irrational to me, because I myself am
still a student, and how can one who is but a learner of Life
attempt to teach others? My only solution of this is that
7
"no one really teaches anyone else." We may give an out-
ward stimulus, but the truth lies within ourselves, there-
fore this attempt is only to be regarded as an impetus to
draw out of anyone caring to read it that which finds its
own response; and with that in mind, I leave it to fulfill
its mission.
8
INTRODUCTION
IN THE REALIZATION that this book must serve as a foun-
dation for a different idea about physics, and that it
must make as clear as possiblethe actual tie between it and
metaphysics, I feel that a word of explanation is necessary
to help the reader adjust his mind to the newer concept.
There is nothing in the world so interesting to humanity
as the subject of "humanity." Its favorite recreation is
watching the lives of others, either outpictured on the
screen or written about in books and magazines.
Likewise, people very seldom rela."'i:
for a few minutes
without discussingthe efforts or achievements of others,
thus endeavoring to find out how they meet their problems
and react to life. The fact that another has accomplished
helps to encourage those who have yet to fulfill.
However, in all this unconscious seeking very few
humans have sought the reason for life, or tried to study its
source-what it is that animates the physical brain and
body; why it is that people can live with nearly all parts
of the body amputated, but cannot do so with the head
removed. What energy caus·esthe cell to produce a com-
plete physical body? Why do we see more under the mi-
croscope than with the physical eye alone? Why do we
see more with a telescope than without it?
Why is it we do not see the electricity flowing over a
wire, and only the results if it isresisted?Why do we hear
sound which has passedthrough the ether, and not see or
9
feel its journey? Why do we sense the presence of some-
one standing behind us, or know that he is looking at us
in a crowd, and turn toward him instinctively, although
previously not aware he was there?
Why can we take a picture of anyone? I hear you say,
"Because of the reflection of light on him." Yes and no.
Nevertheless, these are questions each should try to answer
for himself in a sincere attitude of endeavoring to un-
derstand.
The old·order of things is passing away and a new day
is dawning in which mankind must ceasehisegotistical idea
of knowing all and try to understand that which he knows.
To him who would know about Life, listen!
Whatever you learn, whatever you read, or whoever
talks to you, is but a drawing forth from within your own
self that which lies latent there.
You who are beginning to feel the stirring of the small
germ of ~owledge of Life, realize that you are embryonic
Gods, holding within your very beings the truth of all
Life, of all knowledge, of all wisdom, of all power, of all
strength, of all love!
Tonight I sit in the mountains with the great pine trees
surrounding me. I breathe in the atmosphere and know
that there is but One Energy!
I watch the activity of life about me and realize that
although we all seem to be strangers, we are only separate
lines of the One Great Rope of Energy bound at its other
end in Eternity.
IO
We find our friends, relatives and loved ones through
this Great Law of Attraction and know it not!
We eat our food, live our lives, run our automobiles,
motor boats, airplanes or other means of transponation
and never stop to think where this Mighty Force, Power
and Intelligence comes from. .·
We do not even consider the intelligence in our own
bodies and the activity taking place therein with regard to
our food, our actions and reactions.
Our lives are something to which we turn very little
thought except when our feeling worlds are invaded by
others.
We have been given the Great Key to Life by the one
statement: "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His
righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you."
Yet we go on living our lives as though a search for the
kingdom of God were the least and last thing to be desired,
for all else must first be obtained.
Man's idea that God helps only those who help them-
selveshas been slightly misinterpreted; and while it is true,
it·is also to be used in urging man to seek first who he is,
and to remember his source (which is the kingdom of
God and its right use-ness).
Learn to use the laws of Life with the keenness granted
any study of life's work. Nature truly opens up her treas-
ure-house to those who seek diligently, and God does help
those who help themselves in this way.
As you find yourselves now just beginning to want a
II
glimpse of the sunlight of truth, not knowing where it lies,
and feeling that someone else has it and that you might
barter with him for it for a few shillings, know that truth
isnever acquired in that way.
Truth is found only within your own soul, and the
price you have paid for it may be great or small, yet it is
seldom bought with monies, but with experience
As we have been told, if we seek we shall find; if we
knock, the door shall be opened unto us!
Where to seek or upon what to knock has always re-
mained the problem, and this work is an effort to guide
us back to our source which is within us; it is there we
must "seek and find."
This is the foundation of our book.
There is but One Life, One Substance, and One Energy!
This work must be read with the underlying thought of
Life asenergy acting through substance. Let us use the old
illustration of ice being crystallized steam, and of steam asa
gaseous form of ice, bearing in mind that both phases are
a speeding up or a slowing down of electrons of a certain
type of molecule. In other words, the atom is truly made
up of "systems of electrons differip.gonly in the rhythm of
their motions." This rhythm makes the difference in their
polarity, which in its turn produces action and reaction
upon other molecules of electrons.
Again, our foundational idea is ~hat "Life is conditioned
in motion." This is difficult for us to realize, but it is never-
theless true; activity is continuously going on, even in the
hardest substances. Thus we see merely that which is a
12
precipitate of an invisible energy. In reasoning this out for
ourselves, we have only to ask-do we see electricity on
the wire? Do we see the energy that heals our cut finger?
Do we see the energy that causes corrosion or erosion?
Only the results of all these activities are visible. For in-
stance, we see and feel only the effect of the wind, not its
underlying cause-which again brings us to the subject
matter of this book. Its purpose is to expand the conscious-
ness from the plane of effects to include also the plane of
cause.
CHAPTER I
LIFE AS AN ENERGY, A CONSCIOUSNESS
AND A SUBSTANCE
WE ARE TOLD by the physicist that only that which
has length, width and thickness and can be recog-
nized by the use of one or all of the fivephysical sensescan
be considered as real. Therefore he places under the above
headings the following:
MATTER, OR SUBSTANCE;
SOUND, OR AUDIBLE EFFECTS OF ELECTRICITY;
VISIBLE EFFECTS OF ELECTRICITY, OR LIGHT AND COLOR.
The physicist has made for himself a standard by which
he measuresthe Universe, and although that standard must
either be assumed with blind acceptance as correct, or
changed every few years to meet the new experiences and
evidences of something greater, he holds fast until it is
swept from hisgrasp, rather than admit something elseinto
hissenseworld to expand his consciousness.
It is evident also that many who have earned their own
spurs, so to speak, through advancing the ideas of the
world ever solittle, are unwilling to be open-minded about
the efforts of someone else; therefore science is held in
check and can advance only if the new ideas come under
the above headings.
But what about the new and expanding consciousness?
This must find a niche for itself in the world of form and
prove allthe old aswell asits own new aspects.Thus we sit
in a world of our own ideas and declare that all the laws
of physics are known, and a thing must either conform to
these ideas or be considered untrue.
We brand many a thing "false" without reasoning that
the very opposite of false is real but if we admit the exist-
ence of "false" we are at the same time admitting the
possibility of a "real" existing. We must have the com-
parison for distinction.
The newest and greatest things in use today are not here
because the scientific world hailed and accepted them, but
in spite of their refusal to ac~ept them.
The history of all utility has been one of struggle for
existence, because in each instance the ideas of "science"
were outraged. Electricity was "a form of magic," the
steam-engine and steam-boat were "impractical," the tele-
phone and radio "impossible," etc.
In the medical field the X-ray and fluoroscope had their
struggle and are still having it, because so few can read
them with accuracy.
We are continually trying to explain electricity, as its
true source is unknown.
Television isnot yet a utility in America, asit isnot con.:.
sidered :finishedhere, although it is now used. in/ Great
Britain.
We of course are not ,forgetting the :financialinfluence
on the new with reference to the equipment of the old, yet
it is not the general tendency to grasp the idea of the new
with friendliness.
We laugh and ridicule the discoverer with a decided
lack of respect; but when his work has been accepted,
which it generally is after a few years, we erect monu-
ments to him and give him much credit and applause-
usually after he has died. Man's inhumanity to man, and his
refusal to do his own thinking, act as stumbling blocks
which only the courageous can surmount.
This messageis an effort to stimulate the minds of those
who read it to the freedom and expansion of their own
consciousness,that they may through this attain to greater
heights and idealism, for only so can truth be discerned.
LIFE AS ENERGY
The new physics is attempting to explain energy as the
bombardment of electrical particles which float in space,
and to deny any knowledge as to their origin, or that they
have any origin except relatively speaking; namely, that
the ethers are filled with them. When we feel anything,
they say,it isthe bumping into electrical particles; all phys-
ical phenomena can be explainedfrom the relative position
of an imagined observer.
The interesting thing is that there is always the neces-
sary use of the imagination of the observer, or a theory
that if such and such were true, then so and so would of
necessity have to be true, following someone's law which
has been accepted by science for a certain number of years
as a meansof measuring or deducing results. All these laws
are admitted to be relative and not immutable.
16
No one dares to declare a fact unless the majority
accepts it; and in truth very few know facts, so that all
assumptionsmust be subject to change.
If they are changeable,they are not, or cannot be, facts
or true laws. They must belong to a condition, and can
be exchanged for another condition. Thus we have ac-
cepted Einstein's theory of relativity, which allows for
changes. We also have many phenomenal experiences in
chemistry, which those using it explain only by affirming
that if certain things are put together under certain con-
ditions, one can get certain results. Hence if gas is formed
under certain conditions it can be reduced into liqwd,
and the liquid solidified.This process can be reversed by
proper methods, proving that an unseen gas can be con-
densed into liquid, and crystallized into matter or sub-
stance. We may or may not smell the gas-we niay know
its presence by its action on somethingwe see,smell,taste,
feel or hear.
We cause an energy to act upon it-usually heat or its
opposite,cold. We bring it into visibilityin what we know
as water, or a liquid state. Then by the action of energy
again (either heat or cold), we produce a crystallization,
which is actually the above-mentioned gas brought into a
more substantialform, or brought into form. Known com-
binations of liquids always create the same crystals and
the samegases.
We have the action of sound both in and out of a
vacuum. Taking the simple example of the two tuning
forks, we start them vibrating; the one outside the vacuum
will rule the one inside, and cause it to raise or lower to
its own level.
Then we have LIGHT.
This is produced by vibrating a substance. A wire is
usually used; it is started vibrating; a humming sound is
heard. We vibrate it a little faster and make heat; still
faster, and it results in color in reddish degree; increasing
the speed will then give yellow; and so on through the
visible spectrum until no light is visible. It is found that
energy passesalong the wire unseen, but is felt if touched;
or if properly resisted, it produces light, heat, power and
more energy.
Everything so far acts and reacts along a very definite
course when the same things are done to cause it.
Energy, heat, light and power are usually produced
by rotating a lode-stone in an armature; thus there is a
magnetic field of force acting. But the human body is also
composed of magnetic qualities, and has been known to
emit ligpt even as some fish do; then we hear you say,
"The fish has an over-amount of what we call phospho-
rus, which glows in the night."
This doesnot belittle nor enhance the fact that the body
of the fishglows,nor doesit prove that in the human body
there does not exist the same substance, or one having a
great degree of vibration showing a different aspect of
the samephenomenon.
We are prone to let our terminology confuse a point
without realizingthat if the result is the same,the samelaw
must be fulfilled, even as in chemistry. These laws func-
18
tion on many planes, and the fact that we do not fully
understand them does not detract from their reality. It
should reveal our lack of knowledge to the degree that
would force us to seek harder than ever to find the cause
of all the phenomena, that we might be truly wise!
We say there are ninety-two elements in chemistry.
Actually, there is only one. All the phenomena are only
precipitates of the one energy functioning at various rates
.ofvibration.
It has been discovered that Life is conditioned in mo-
tion, and that stagnation results in death. Therefore even
the electrons making up the atom are in continuous mo-
tion, thus keeping up the lode-stone and armature process,
producing energy which constantly supplies life to the
body structure (or to any structure having form). For
since the nucleus is the seed or form-center of ~e atom,
even as the acorn is the seed or form-center of the oak
tree, havingin it the completed tree, just so hasthe nucleus
of the atom of any body the complete picture of the
entire structure of which it is a part. Thus if an old cell
is thrown off, a new one comes in like it, as the nucleus
is there producing continuous form after its own pattern.
The nucleus is considered the point of light in the cell
of.the body, and when struck by light of its own kind
divides'into two (since like poles repel and unlike poles
attract). Each atom in the nucleus of the cell hasthe com-
plete picture of the whole, therefore unless the nucleus is
destroyed the cell and body continue to rebuild.
We hear you say, "The nucleus, too, isthrown off with
19
the old cell." Yes, but the part you see is only the preci-
pitate or end product of the energy which produces it,
therefore it is like the scalingoff of the outer layer of skin
-another forms at once, because the conditions are the
same and the energy is still there. If that energy were
removed there would be no more formation of that type
of cell or atom.
We are allfamiliarwith the statement in the Biblewhich
says, "That was the true Light, which lighteth every man
that cometh into the world."
Also, "In the beginning ... the earth was without form,
and void; and darkness was upon the face of the ·deep.
And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.
And God said,Let there be light: and there was light."
Now out of this Infinite Light comesthe reduction into
energy, then liquid, and lastly form and substance. If the
same laws be followed, these of necessity must be only
one-half of the cycle.
Following the laws just mentioned, form on this earth
is subject to energy and light, and of itself can be reduced
to fluid and gasesand back to energy and light, of which
it is a part. If this is true in smallways already discovered,
it is true in all ways not yet discovered, because the laws
of Life are true and immutable, and it is only form which
changes, or shall we say that only what can be discerned
by the fivesensesis that which changesform or condition.
Thus we follow this nucleus of the atom back along its
line from form to liquid, to gases,to energy, and to light,
20
which contains within itself all that it can produce under
any condition. In this way all energy returns to its
source, from the small nucleus of the atom through to
its original state.
We reduce all this back to One Energy, One Substance,
and One Life, out of which every form is made manifest.
Therefore any energy is a phase of Life, and out of it can
come substance and form.
Hence it is not magic nor nonsense to take a drop of
blood from the human or animal body and find in each
atom the complete energy of every part of the body from
which it came, any more than it would be considered
magicto plant the acorn and produce an oak tree. For Life
cannot come out of the acorn if it is not in it, and no
amount of soil and water can produce an oak tree without
the energy and pattern in the acorn. Therefore the blood
cannot maintain life in the body if it has not the pattern
of the body within it, or the power in each atom to pro-
duce the energy used to maintain life in a constantly
active, moving body.
The acorn produces life in the first dimensional plane7
becauseit remains stationary and cannot move from place
to place.
The blood produces life in the third dimensionalplane
because it can move from place to place, heal itself and
reproduce its kind.
We then take the life energy back to its source of con-
sciousness,which, like the tides of the ocean, is continu-
21
ously flowing in circular motion as well as back and forth.
Since we have outlined the energy of Life, we now men-
tion some of the proofs of our findings.
A drop of blood is placed on a blotter. The atoms are
crystallized, and remain stationary as far as our five senses
can discern, but the energy constantly supplying the activ-
ity of the nucleus of the atom isvery much active and alive,
and goes back to the source, which is the path of the body.
If this energy is withdrawn from the body, it no longer
reproduces the body pattern, but must go directly back to
its source, for was it not crystallized after being fluid and
coming from out a gaseous state?
After so-called death we watch the blood go back from
a red color to white liquid, to gases, and then evaporate,
after which our senses fail to follow it. Does this mean that
it ceases altogether-that we are the last word in knowl-
edge and judgment, and dare to make such assumptions?
Man is always being displaced from his self-acquired
heights because of the broader expansions just ahead, which
are continually coming into view and disproving his
tendency/to measure the Universe with his yard-stick and
define its boundaries from his own limited vision.
The greatness of man is recognized by his ability to see
his limitations and ever push forward with courage towards
the goal of true attainment.
LIFE AS A CONSCIOUSNESS
We have touched very little upon the consciousness,
which for some reason has been taken for a fact by the
22
physicist, who does not attempt to reason its existence,but
shovesit into the corner for the metaphysicist to deal with
as he may. This seemsto have been a common playground
of everyone; each trying to declare to the world histruths,
forgetting or failing to realize that everyone is the center
of the Universe to himself, and that his approach is his
own combination of light, energy, gases,liquid substance
and form, and cannot apply to anyone else, except in a
general, homogeneousway.
That which is the truth for him he must fulfill if he fol-
lows the law of his being, but if another tries to follow his
path, dis-ease or inharmony presents itself in that other's
life and chaos results.
Now we hear someone say quickly, "But what about
our criminals?They would be undisciplined if their actions
were not curbed."
True, but when one reaches the stage of a criminal he
has done so after constant rebellion against the laws set up
for him to follow, which either were presented to him in
a manner that he resented, or through some misunder-
standing on his part. caused him to decide against con-
forming to them.
However, the healing of a dis-ease has never. resulted
from treating the effects alone, and it often takes a very
long time to trace back to the original cause. For that rea-
son there is no masspanacea which can heal body, mental
or socialhuman ills;an individual beginning must be made
in which each one is taught to know himself from within.
We have so many trying to dominate the world with their
23
own ideas,which are truth to them and truth for them, that
they continually create jealousy, greed, and all the rest of
the inharmonies under which mankind suffers. Tolerance
cannot come until understanding precedes it.
One of the first steps in consciousness is "awareness."
We are told that "we possess a consciousness and a sub-
consciousness." In other words, "an outer awareness is
above our inner habit-forming consciousness; we have
voluntary and involuntary action, ruled by the conscious-
ness and the subconsciousness."
Let us analyze for a moment what this is.If light, energy,
gases,liquid and substance were not intelligent they would
not or could not act under conscious direction. Plenty of
experiments have been made which prove the above state-
ment; in fact, the transmutation of one phase into the other
is its proof.
Thus, if the above is true, and all tests show it, then our
own manifestation of this intelligence is the precipitate
of it, and is much lessin degree than that which is unmani-
fest or not yet out into the world of form.
Everyone seems to agree that intelligence belongs to
the physical world, but no one has seen it-only its mani-
festation, or, let us say, its precipitation. No one sees the
thought until after it has taken form.
This, then, leadsus to an awarenessof energy and power
behind the outer precipitate of the thought, and we realize
that we can continuously draw upon that source of supply.
Now this source of supply is called "sub" to the outer
manifestation or to the physical effect, which in truth is
24
•1
subject to, and NOT sub, or beneath, the outer will. The
word or sound is the thought and feeling, which in reality·
bring it forth into the outer or physicalworld. The thought
is only the framework or pattern, but the feeling is the
magnet which draws the subjective consciousnessinto the
outer manifestation.
This of course helps us to realize how important it is
to understand and control our feelings as well as our
thoughts if peace is to be maintained in our own world.
There is no thought which is not followed by energy.
We realizealsothat if we draw this subjective conscious-
ness out hard enough it acts automatically, but never invol-
untarily, for everything done is always voluntary, although
it often becomesa repeated habit to the extent that we may
give it very little attention. Yet it is always under conscious
awarenessand rule, and can be changed at any instant. If it
were involuntary or could be made so, it could not act.
We need to think more about the meaning of our words
and not try to explain haphazardly that which demands
watchfulness in details.
LIFE AS A SUBSTANCE
We must realize that if our consciousnessis the precipi-
tate of this same grouping of above manifestations taking
place on the plane of energy and light, then the only dis-
tinction we can make in all these would be that atoms and
cells of the body are precipitates, in substance, of fluid,
gases,energy and light.
Magnetism is the energy acting and reacting between
the lode-stone and the armature; between the nucleusof the
atom and its electrons; between light and energy; between
energy and gases (air); between gasesand fluid; between
fluidand substance;and completingthe circle,between sub-
stance and light. Magnetismis the feeling in the atom.
In our statement on light we say, "Substances absorb
or reflect light." In reality the magnetic pull of light for
substance causes the substance to emit its atoms. These
come away fast or slowly according to its porosity or solid-
ity. Because in the more solid substances the atoms are
packed more closelytogether, they stream out more slowly
into the light, and their action is seen by the physical eye.
But in the porous types they are not so tightly packed, and
are emitted with greater freedom; their speed is not seen,
as it is beyond the visible range. We say that the/porous
type of substancesabsorbslight, but in reality light absorbs
them very rapidly.
We do not see light, we see only the atoms of certain
slowly vibrating substances being drawn into. the light,
meeting other atoms which slow down their speed and
produce visibility.
The porous substances have more light, (not space),
between their atomic and molecular arrangements. Thus
the balance of light and energy is more constant, while
the solid substance releasesits atoms more slowly into the
light and the energy generated is very much slowed down,
which is the reason for seeing its action.
We wonder why we have so-called night one-half the
26
time and so-called day the other half; or why visible light
exists one-half the time and invisible the other half. It is
just the speed of atoms being drawn into the light which
causesit to become visible or invisible.
It is true that everything casts its shadow-the more
solid substance causes the most visible light, and casts the
darkest shadow. Let us go back again to a former state-
ment, "Life is conditioned in motion." Let us also con-
sider that our world, instead of being the center of the
Universe whirling around, shone down upon by a station-
ary sun, is really carrying out the original idea of the atom;
it is only one of the electrons in constant rotation around
its own axis,with all the other planets of this galaxy doing
likewise, and the sun as the nucleus also in constant rapid
rotation. Thus as our earth rotates, .1and the sun rotates,
and all swirl around the sun, we have the drawing of par-
ticles or atoms of each coming together in the light, which
also is the space. The magnetic force field is held as an
energy or cohesive force which, when the light draws
atoms from the side of our earth toward the sun, and also
draws atoms from the sun, produces visiblelight asthe two
meet. The side of the earth that is turned away from the
sun is not in this particular action to the samedegree; there-
fore the light is visible,but in a lesser degree.
We say that the moon always remains with its side
turned toward us, but rises and sets even as the sun. All
this action is due to the relative positions of all three-earth,
moon and sun-but each is active in its own sphere, so that
while it appears that neither the sun nor moon turn in their
27
positions, our own speed is equal to theirs and they there-
fore do not change their sidesto us.
Now we hear you say, "What about the eclipse-the
moon corning in between the earth and the sun?"
We not only have the rotation on one plane, or flat sur-
face plane, but it is being recognized by scientists that the
movement of all the electrons around the nucleus is spiral,
and that when the electrons reach the complete outside of
the circle they are met again by the protons or the nucleus
being brought up to them. Thus we spiral in one direction
and then back, the whole atom slowly turning over while
it ultimately spirals out and in, to and from all directions.
Since this takes place in the atom it must follow through,
and ultimately the earth, sun, and other planets of this,
our galaxy, do the same.
Now we come to the question of the unequal size of
planets. Since light is continuously drawing the atoms of
substance to itself, recharging them, so to speak, and repel-
ling them back into substance again, it would stand to
reason that form, as we know it, would never be equally
divided nor symmetrical. Once again we are using the atom
to explain the greater form-time entering in as an element
complementary to the speed or action of light on mass
substance.
The rays of this light also divide the nucleus of the atom
by withdrawing the magnetic charge which holds the
positive electrons together when this magnetic charge
reaches a state of saturation. The positive protons repel
each other, causing a division; then the new atom, having
28
less positive and negative electrons, becomes another de-
gree of substance in light.
We cannot realize the speed with which such action
occurs; and the slownesswith which a new sun is formed
is alsooutside our comprehension. Nevertheless all changes
in substance are made by this means, carrying through
from atom to galaxy or solar system. There are no freaks
nor accidents; these only appear to exist because our
glimpseis so finite.
Each part isin constant sublimationand distillation;thus
the chemistry and physics of the whole cannot be separ-
ated without leaving out some of the vital effects that
take place.
If we wish to transmute solid substance into light at a
faster speedwe apply energy or friction, and produce heat,
which when speeded up becomesvisibleas flameand light.
This action draws a greater number of electrons from the
I
substance at a time; these are rapidly absorbed into the
light unseen, until there is again a balance between the
atoms of light and the atoms of the solid substances.
~he planets have a bearing on our earth as well as on
other substancesin the light. Our seasonalcontrol isdirectly
under the planetary influences. The moon has a decided
effect upon seeds, which seem to grow better when the
moon atoms are not so directly bombarding the earth's
atoms in the light (or moonlight).
This isexplainedby some asthe pull upon the electronic
flow from the earth exerted by the sun on plant life. When
the seedisplaced in the ground in the "dark of the moon,"
its electrons, which are negative, are not disturbed by the
repelling force of the negative energy of the moon, and
are permitted to be attracted along the line of energy pat-
tern of the seed without inter£erence. Thus the reason for
planting in the "dark of the moon."
The Line of Force, which we call the "Silver Cord,"
the sap in the center of the tree or plant; etc., is the exten-
sion into matter of the rate of vibration of a ray of the
One Great Energy Intelligence, which takes form on the
plane of earth according to the thought and sound in the
energy around the earth in which it crystallizes.
Let us assume that the earth is a dynamo, electro-mag-
netic in nature. It goes through the same gyrations as the
atom and the molecule spiral formation. Each plane takes
it nearer to or farther away from the planeaboveit,through
the oscillationsof the earth in the spiral planes surrounding
it. These planes are made by the acting influences of the
other planets in our galaxy,which not only act on the earth
but alsoon every atom within their radius of energy!
As the earth oscillatesback and forth within this radius
of energy, every atom is affected at one time or another
by every outside planet. All nature is ruled by this influ-
ence, and yet nature itself is made up of this same Line of
Force, or Life Force, "The Silver Cord," there being only
One Life, One Energy, One Substance.
Every time a seed is planted into the earth its source is
this One Life,OneEnergy and One Substance,which comes
from the Great Central Sun asthe dispenserof all Life-the
"Light that lighteth every man that cometh into theworld."
Since it is a Light; its make-up has more positive than
negative electrons, and free carbon is the crystallization
of this Light! (Note the diamond.)
Also note that one atom of carbon is equivalent to four
atoms of hydrogen. Thus the proof that, chemicallyspeak-
ing, carbon can be returned to hydrogen and many other
states of matter without changing the fact that the carbon
is only the physical state of this light energy.
These changesin condition are maintained by the num-
ber of free or rotating negative electronswhich they attract
and hold. When any of the electrons are forced off, the
substance takes on a different condition according to the
number of removed electrons. However, when a line of
this Life Force comes into the earth, it comes as a small
seed in which the idea or pattern is folded. This pattern is
complete, having in it the energy line of that which it can
stretch into and become. Thus the acorn has a central pat-
tern of positive and negative electrons, surrounded by
shellsof electrons on the sameplane. These shellsare per-
manent orbits or groupings of electrons, stabilized or
crystallized.
Now when this seed is placed in the soil the earth elec-
trons begin at once to repel the shells, forcing them
upward, shell after shell, until the number of shells and
electrons are pulled out like aspring~They follow up along
the line of this energy, which is acted upon by the bom-
bardment of the electrons until the heat generated by them
causesa condensation in the energy line, and fluid, or sap,
results. We therefore find that chemical action has taken
31
place and follows through according to law and order.
These same electrons are drawn out from the central
line by the action of the planets on the earth, and the leaves
of the plant are formed by this subtle energy pull, which
ends as the atoms pass the plane of influence on that par-
ticular rate of vibration. When at last the flowering state
isreached, it comesasa bursting or fulfillment of the action
of electrons, which results at the crossing of the Lines of
Force of the planets.
This happens at every plane of oscillation, and if the
energy is weak, i.e., if the electrons from the soil are few,
the force of growth will be less, and the plant will flower
at the first or second plane and be short-lived. If the energy
or electric force from the soil is greater, the plant will be
huge and strong in every way.
The number of leavesor petals to the flower signifiesthe
number of planets influencing besides the sun. The speed
of the ray of light, or Line of Force, produces the color,
just as it draws the type of electrons needed from the soil,
giving the color at the time; all electrons are condensed,
so to speak, in the vortex which produces the flower.
Water is the condensation of the Life Force from many
rays, and helps to keep the energy fl.owingwhen added to
the soil,aswater draws the electrons to itself; if the energy
is great enough to produce heat, it soon is distilled into
gasesagain. Thus we have a small part of the story which
man must some day learn.
1111 . -
...
. .
'
<t ~ r, "' l ~
THE DROWN DIAGNOSTIC AND THERAPEUTIC INSTRUMENT
CHAPTER II
LIFE FORCE AND MAGNETISM IN RELATION
TO THE BODY
THE DROWN RADIO THERAPEUTIC INSTRUMENTS are a
meansused to catch and hold a certain amount of the
Life Force of a patient being treated. They act as a select-
ing station, helping to harmonize this Life Force and to
bring about health in the physical body.
In its greater sense, the Life Force is a Light which
passesthrough a sublimation into a form of energy, then
down to gases,and finallyiscondensed into liquid, inwhich
state it flows over the nervous system and through the
blood vessels.From this phase it crystallizes into form.
Scienceis aware of ~nergy, from the gas molecule to the
element molecule, and has named the gases differently, as
though they were separate substances;it has done likewise
with the crystals, calling them all elements.
Chemistry states there are ninety-two or ninety-three
elements. There are one hundred and one phases of ele-
ments in the body, from the gases to the crystals. Eight
more·phasesof this Life Force exist which have yet to be
discovered. Their vibratory rates have been found, and
their other qualities conform accordingly.
The Life Force is made up of electrons. That which
science calls protons, and thinks of as a fixed substance, is
in reality very elasticand volatile, able to expand, contract,
sublimate or evaporate, or, in short, to take on any of the
33
chemical or physical phases of substance, energy or light,
becauseit 1ssubstance, energy or light!
For proof of this we have only to take the egg from its
physical beginning to the crystallized shell,and follow the
cycle through from this to the bone formation of the chick
itself, then to the release of the Life Force by means of
so-calleddeath,and back around through liquidto gases,etc.
Now science has taught that light is only that which we
see, and everything else is darkness and space. The con-
tinual new discoveriesprove the instability of science. If
science is not based on fact, then it is not science at all,
merely theory.
It is time for all thinking people to study and learn the
truth about facts. The only facts are found in Life mani-
festing continuously in and about us.
So-called "space" is proving that sound and light are
carried instantly to any place in the world, and cannot be
insulated. Our own photographs of an object or person in
any part of the world, taken with th~ Drown Radio-Vision
Instrument, using energy alone, and no visible light, dis-
prove the idea that there can be just space, and show that
space has within it all the qualities of light brought down
to substance.
Science has tried to measure the speed of light. It has
been only partially successful, but has aided in giving us
an idea of the rapidity of energy around our planet; and
when we realize that the drop of rain crystallizesin a cer-
tain temperature, according to the kind of sound into
which it has dropped (the sound passing at the moment
34
in a band or strata of energy), we know why there are no
two snow-flakes alike. No two like sounds pass at the
samemoment.
However, sound does create the pattern of form. This
pattern is filled in by our feelings, and temperature crys-
tallizesthe whole. That heat expands and cold contracts is
not a hard and fast rule, because there is this spiral cycle
continuously active. For instance, magnetism and heat act
in a similar manner, thus leading us to think they are one
and the same,in different phases.Iron expands under mag-
netism (or heat) to a certain point, and then contracts. Both
iron and cobalt lose magnetism at freezing temperature.
The action of the speed of molecules is the same with
heat and magnetism. Magnetism is the cohesive power
between different phasesof so-called elements. Thus with-
out magnetism no electron could be attracted or repelled.
Magnetism is the elastic quality in all form, also the feel-
ing quality acting under mental direction.
Therefore, since our earth is a great magnet made up
of little ones, we could learn about all life from this prin-
ciple. Our mental action, functioning in the feeling world,
which is called "love," is magnetism. Magnetism is har-
mony according to its action. The temperature changes in
our mental and feeling world, and ultimately it outpictures
in our bodies, because they are the outpicturing of our
own individual mentalities.
Magnetism, as the field of force acting between two
elements out of which energy, electricity and light are
made manifest, comes from the earth side of life. It is that
35
energy or quality calledforce, feeling,or emotional energy..
It is that electronic substance which is known as the soul
or the covering of the spirit, itself being covered by the
physical body.
Here again we have the spirit, soul and body; nucleus,
mode, and free electrons of the atom; or the Trinity-
Wisdom (nucleus); Love (magnetism); Power (electron).
No thought patterns can manifestunlessfilledwith mag-
netism (heat) or feeling!
It is magnetismalsothat carriesthe thought and feeling,
and goesinstantaneously to its directed place. It often pulls
people toward each other when outwardly they are un-
aware of it. It is the directing pull in reincarnation. It is the
energy feeding all on the earth plane. It is the cohesive
power of everything from the first atom up. It holds even
the earth together. It is that great unnamed God-Presence,
the "I AM" Presence in everything. It is ruled by only
one Energy-the Great God-Presence or Intelligence
(/-intelligence; A-armature; M-magnetism).
All things are under the command of this Great Intelli-
gence, as it is the source of the magnetic energy or Light
brought down into substance. Magnetism holds the form,
sound and substanceof all things ever having been, or ever
being, on this plane. It is elastic,it attracts, holds, repelsand
shatters all things. We could liken it to the soap bubble,
upon which other soap bubbles are formed. The force
causing the formation is unseen, but we call it air, gas
or energy.
The cells of the physical body are likewise under the
36
command of this Great Intelligence. They.are created by
an unseen energy which passesthrough the particular pat-
tern designated, and takes the changes of formation from
the gaseousthrough the liquid, the gelatinous,the calcified.
Often part of the cell formation is seen under the micro-
scope, but the acting energy is invisible.
The honey-comb is a very good example of cellular
structure, but it remains constant, although the internal
gelatinous substance which fillsit is liquid, and ultimately
crystallizes.
We think of the cell structure of the body as fl.at,cru-
ciform or spindle-shaped, but only portions take on these
various shapes in order to fill out the bone structure. The
blood vessels follow the line of the cell, even as threads
might outline a beautiful piece of embroidery, except that
as the blood vesselsleave the cell structure they enlarge
and pass into the large vesselswhich eventually form the
great life channels of the body, of which the heart is the
seed, or Permanent Atom.
How great are our own powers which we permit to lie
dormant within us! How much there is to learn and how
little we really know!
But our first requirement is to know and understand
ourselves.
Every -cell in our body represents its own complete
body, and takes its place in the world as an individual con-
scious unit. Yet we, with all the millions of cells in our
bodies, constitute only ONE CELL in the great body of
humanity. Our earth is the smallestplanet in this particular
37
chain of planets, in galaxy upon galaxy of other chains.
It is impossible to conceive of the immensity of life.
However, everyone must and can learn only from his own
little point in the schemeof things, and in so doing raisehis
consciousnessto where, at last, he knows he is the ruler of
his own particular world, with power to command it when
he has won through to self-command.
And so we come back, inevitably, to the fact that we
must begin with ourselves.
The great encouragement lies in the fact that WE HAVE
THE ABILITY to win through, with none to say us nay
but ourselves. Within us is the latent ability to become
MASTERS. For we are potential Masters as certainly as
the acorn is a potential oak tree. As we progress we mas-
ter many things in life, but the most important mastery
is that of self: our minds, thoughts, feelings, appetites
and bodies.
Human beings are embryonic Gods, because they CAN
attain self-mastery, because they have the ability to mani-
fest perfection.
Mankind has struggled long and blindly trying to find
that control of life which would bring him into the full
expressionof peace, happinessand security.
To bring about security seemsto each one not possessing
it to be the only goal worth having, and to attain this goal
all resourcesare exhausted,many believingthat it can come
only by gaining enough wealth to buy it. But those having
much money find that it cannot buy health, and so con-
tinue seeking.
Only those who have learned that all wealth lies within
themselves and cannot be obtained from outside can find
full peace, happinessand security.
How truly has it been stated, as we have said, "Seek ye
first the kingdom of God" (within us) "and His righteous-
ness" (right-use-ness) "and all these things shall be added
unto you." The realization that the Great Power which
created us is still able to heal us has not made a very deep
impression on most of the world. Some have even gone as
far as to say, "God is too big to be concerned about us
poor sinners!"
Think of it! If we, who know so little, create a painting
or statue, and it meets with an accident, we are concerned
enough to try to fix it. How much more would an All-
Powerful Creator be willing to aid us, his living creation,
if we but ask it. For one of the Great Laws of our Being
isthat we must ASK, and it shallbe given unto us, or "And
thou shalt also decree a thing and I the Lord thy God will
establishit unto thee!"
Thus if we plant a seed we decree for the harvest, and
the Law establishesit unto us. According to the seed we
plant, we reap the harvest-either of easeor dis-ease.
We are all aware that when an individual dies, that
which we knew as that man, woman or child ceases to
exist for us. In other words, the body remains, but that
"something" known to us as the :eersonality or ruling
life no longer lives,and is gone forever in that form. The
body has been finished with as a dwelling-place, and has
been cast off, even as a diver casts off his suit after emerg-
39
ing from the medium in which that suit was necessary.
While an individual lives in his body, he is in truth in
control of it. He is provided by nature with air, water and
food from which to draw his sustenance. But he has com-
plete freedom in the maintenance of absolute health, or
ease, only if he has learned to live in accordance with the
laws of the earth. If he struggles againstthese laws, through
ignorance, disbelief, or any other cause, he is bound in a
state of dis-ease,or lack of ease.
lnharmony is the rock-bottom cause of all disease,for
the latter is unable to enter the body unless inharmony has
taken hold. The individual has not yet learned the laws of
Life. He has done certain things, year in, year out, and has
struggled along, trying to make conditions yield to him,
only to wear out his body and accomplish little or nothing,
instead of letting go and trying to harmonize himself with
the great fundamental laws.
He does not realize that this life is only a part of his
journey through existence, and that it is as important to
him to find his stride asit is to the swimmer who "at-ones"
himself with the water and settles down to meet the waves
asthey come. If he cannot rise above them, he goesthrough
them, always maintaining his poise and confidence.
So it is in life. If one calmly passesthrough the waves
or rises above them, they go harmlessly on. But if he is
fearful and struggles, he is caught and drawn under, to be
battered about until death ends his struggle.
Struggle, fear, worry, anger, jealousy, selfishness-all
such emotions inhibit the free flow through the body of
40
"that something" otherwise known as God, the Real Self,
Truth, Life Force. When any of these mental states is
permitted to control the mind of an individual, the nerve
in the brain which corresponds to that function of the
mind isinhibited. It in turn inhibits the sensory, motor and
sympathetic nerves of the body and their subsidiaries.This
inhibits the flow of /blood, which causes a lowering of
vibration in the tissuesand a resultant lowering in function
of the endocrine glands.
Hence some part of the body becomes diseased-the
metabolism of that particular area is out of balance, due
to too much anabolism (neoplasm), or too much catabolism
(disintegration of tissue).
Thus one can seehow growths are formed, and alsohow
tissue lapses into a state of suppuration. It all refers back
to the lack of freedom of the flow of "that something," or
Life Force, through the body, due to failure of the individ-
ual to observethe laws of life.
41.
CHAPTER III
THE CHEMISTRY, PHYSICS AND METAPHYSICS
OF THE BODY
WE QUOTE THE FOLLOWING from Wireless Library for
the Man in the Street, (Ralph Stranger, England),
becauseit gives a foundation from which our work can be
explainedmore easilythan from other treatises on physics.
It helps to make the chemical affinitiesclear to the layman,
as most people have not had a thorough understanding
of what they have studied along these lines.
"Electrical science is based entirely on the knowledge
of the behaviour of the electron. In wireless the electron
plays a most important role . . .
"In every atom there are one or more rotating electrons.
These electrons are moving at comparatively high speeds
and they are moving in definite paths. If the temperature
of the body israised,the molecular motion is increased and
the electronic speed will increase. At certain temperatures
it will be found that electrons will start to leave their atoms
and travel into space,asin the caseof a valve filament.
"As a matter of fact, it is quite an easymatter to dislodge
electrons from the atoms to which they belong by simple
friction. If we rub two bodies together we shall find that
one body becomes rich in electrons, i.e., its atoms have
more electrons than they should normally have, while the
other body becomes poor in electrons.
"The atom of every chemical element has a definite
42
number of rotating electrons given it by nature. If an atom
losesa number of electrons, either on account of friction
or on account of some other cause, it becomes poor in
electrons and the protonic forces become predominant.
There are now more protons in the atom than electrons.
"On the other hand, if an atom gainsa number of elec-
trons over and above its natural number, it becomes rich
from the electronic point of view, and there are more
electrons in the atom than protons.
"We should therefore remember that the cementing
electrons inside the nucleus are bound to the protons and
cannot be shifted unless the nucleus itself breaks down.
The rotating electrons are, on the other hand, free to leave
the atom and travel into spaceor on to another atom ... •
"In the early daysof electricalscience,although nothing
was known about the electronic theory, the early scien-
tists realized that there are TWO kinds of electricity. In
order to distinguish between the two, they gave them
names. Just as "left" is the opposite of "right," and "be-
low" is the opposite of "above," so the meaning of the
word "negative" is the opposite of--theword "positive."
Thus one kind of electricity was supposed to be negative,
and the other kind positive. Mark you, there is no special
meaning in those names. All they imply is that the two
•we use this to show that if a patient has a dominance of protons, or pos-
itive influence, the body or part has a hyperacidity predominance, while if
there are too many electrons, or negative influence, an alkaline predominance
is noted. When with the use of the ~rounded (or earthed) H.V.R. Instru-
ment the patient is made normal it IS because of the electrons flowing to
or from the earth to the particular part of the body out of balance.
43
kinds of electricity are of entirely different character, quite
opposed to each other."
We include an excerpt from another of Mr. Stranger's
works, New Bricks for Old:
" . . . we know that every substance is made up of
appropriate molecules;that moleculesare made up of atoms
of various chemical elements, and the atom consists of a
nucleus (a mixture of electrons and protons) and a num-
ber of electrons rotating around that nucleus in a number
of shells.
"On inspecting the previous tables of elements, we
notice that the number of protons in the nucleus varies
with the atomic weight, or, in other words, the atomic
weight of an element depends on the number of protons in
the nucleus. Thus one chemical element differs from an-
other chemical element in the number of protons and
electrons in the atom and in the manner of arrangement
of the electrons. The actual chemical propenies of each
element apparently depend on the number of electrons in
the last shell. If this last shell is perfect, i.e., if it has its
appropriate two, eight, eighteen, or thiny-two electrons,
the element is an inert one, or inactive from the chemical
point of view. It will not combine with other elements.
On the other hand, if the last shell consists of fewer elec-
trons than it requires for stability, the element is capable
of combining with other elements.
"Mark you, although the above theories seem to fit per-
fectly, this perfect fit is superficial, as we are only skim-
ming the surface of the subject. Many conflicting theories
44
exist; scientists have not agreed amongst themselves yet,
and many a theory waits yet to be proved experimentally.
"There is no doubt, however, as regards the existence
of molecules~atoms, protons, and electrons; the only
doubt is in the manner of their arrangement ... •
"Before chemistry became a science there existed the
so-c~ed alchemistry. The alchemist of old had for his
main object the discovery of the elixir of life that would
give him immortality, and amongst other things he also
dabbledin the transmutation of metals,trying to transform
copper into gold and lead into silver.
"It may surprise you to know that the dream of the
alchemistsof old was not so fantastic as it would appear at
first glance.
"Although men had not yet found the means of trans-
forming one element into another, nature herself does it.
"You have no doubt heard of Radium, and generally
speaking, radio-active substances. It has been discovered
that the heaviest metal in nature, Uranium, changes its
•we have recently discovered that each of the twelve cranial nerves carries
one of the one hundred and one different phases of the One Energy, which
crystallizes into a different element according to its rate of vibration. These
phases flow over the motor, sensory, or sympathetic branches, and thus show
the channel's supply of energy; it must attract its own electrons from the
earth to make up Its balance in substance. In tum, the earth ac::ts
as a magnet,
drawing and repelling this substance in the normal activities of the body,
mainly through the pores of the skin. H there is even a slight obstruction to
these nerves, the reservoir for Life Force in the brain, namely, the thalamus,
becomes polluted by the backing up of the flow, and the head feels dull
instead of free and active. When, by our method of checking, we determine
which nerve is not functioning properly, we know at once which mineral
is out of balance in the body, and what organs are affected as a result. For
example, iron and iodin are found in the sympathetic branches of the eighth
cranial nerve. This nerve supplies the thyroid, the sex organs, the suprare-
nals, etc.
45
nature in a most remarkable way. As you already know,
Uranium has an atomic weight of 2 38. There are 2 38
protons cemented by 147 electrons, with 92 electrons ro-
tating around the nucleus in a seven-shell formation.
Well, it has been discovered that during a few million
years atoms of Uranium get rid of four protons and two
electrons, which promptly unite to form a Helium nucleus,
or, in other words, an atom of the gas Helium, less two
rotating electrons.
"Since the atoms Qf Uranium are losing protons out of
their nuclei, the atomic weight of the disintegrating ele-
ment drops till it becomes 226. And lo and behold! instead
of Uranium we have Radium.
"In a similar manner Radium, ejecting now four protons
and two electrons in each shot, now a single electron in
less than 2000 years, degenerates into Polonium, which has
an atomic weight of 2 1o. For 1 36 days Polonium shoots
out protons and electrons till it becomes at the end of this
period Lead, with an atomic weight of 2 06.1. This Lead
differs from ordinary Lead, which has an atomic weight
of 207.2, by one proton in the nucleus, and, apparently, by
one electron. This phenomenon is ali the more remarkable
in that a chemist cannot convert by ordinary chemical
processes Uranium into Radium, Radium into Polonium,
or Polonium into Lead.
"It does not seem improbable that the chemical elements
are closely related to each other and that nature is tirelessly
manufacturing the lighter elements from the heavier ones,
new·bricks for old, as it were.
"Take, for instance, an atom of Helium; four protons
and four electrons. If the atom could be broken up by
human agency, we would have here the material for four
atoms of Hydrogen, each atom consisting of one proton
and one electron.
"You may ask, 'Why should an atom of Uranium break
down at all?' When you have 2 38 protons and 146 elec-
trons enclosed into the tiniest space imaginable, with con-
siderable forces acting between the protons and electrons,
small wonder that the nucleus breaks down, although it
takes millionsof years for it to do so.
"Well, such is matter, as far as we know it at present.
This is the material of which our earthly world is made,
including ourselves. Our transmitters, our studios, our
musical instruments, our wires, valves, crystals, loud-
speakers, are nothing but massesof seething protons and
electrons, two kinds of electricity which happen to attract
each other and thus' are capable of holding the whole
world together."
We quote the above to show that others are thinking
along the lines of our own research. We continue with the
subject of electrons, as we interpret it:
The atom has within it the nucleus, which is a constant
flow of energy from the ethers. It is composed of a group
of electrons (protons) held tightly together becauseof the
fieldof force radiating from each one, which attracts other
electrons with lessfield force.
These group themselves together, are held only for a
second, then are thrown off into space to be slowed down
47
at what is known as the outer field of force, or the outside
shell, until something forces the energy faster than the
usual impetus. When it. is obstructed, the nucleus is no
longer supplied. At this time the nucleus releases one or
more of the electrons of weaker force field; the atom
changes its structure and becomes an atom of another
structure or element. For instance, helium has four groups
of strong force field electrons (usually known as protons),
with four weaker force fieldelectrons, two of which attach
themselvesto the strong F.F.E. to form the nucleus, while
the other two are even weaker in their F.F. (force field)
and are only able to remain in the outer portion of the
whole atomic force field until something comes along
which is stronger than the original atom and draws it to
itself, in which casethe first atom losesits balance and the
structure changes.
It hasbeen thought that the number of strong F.F. elec-
trons (protons) in the atom of any element is equal to the
nearest round number of the atomic weight of that ele-
ment. For instance, in the case of gold, its atomic weight
is one hundred ninety-seven and its atomic number is
ninety-seven. We have one hundred ninety-seven strong
force field electrons (protons), and one hundred eighteen
weak force field electrons. Ninety-seven are weaker than
the one hundred eighteen which are held in the nucleus.
The weaker ones are anywhere in the mode of the atom
forming a spiral swirl according to their strength of F.F.
As the table of elements is formed, it goes down from
hydrogen, which isthe lightest known gas,to uranium, the
48
heaviest known element. It has two hundred thirty-eight
strong F.F. electrons, which, matched with one hundred
forty-six weaker F.F. electrons, form the nucleus. This
nucleus is so powerful within itself, and is so held in the
field force of the earth because of its own powerful field
force, that its weaker F.F. electrons are not very weak, but
while they number ninety-two* they are still held close
within the atomic mode.
We are told that the diameter of an electron (weak in
fieldforce and elastic)is3/io,000,ooo,ooo,ooo of an inch!*
The diameter of a proton (strong F.F. and not so elastic)
is 1/z5,ooo,ooo,ooo,ooo of an inch.t Its speed is greater, F.
F. stronger, and sizesmaller, which would follow the laws
of all known momentums of matter.
The electron (weaker F.F.) is capable of attaining a
speed of 540,000,000 miles per hour.
The mind cannot conceive of the speed of such minute
particles of matter. The laws of magnetism are carried out
in full from the smallestto the largest particle in action, as
the forces acting between the strong and weak fields of
force are opposite and equal.
These forces are combining matter together according
to the laws of attraction and vibration, which are in-
fluenced also by temperature. Thus heat speeds up the
activity, creating more field force, and cold slows it down.
Everything is in constant motion, and the greater force
controls the lesser.In addition, everything goes in cycles-
•Atomic number.
tRalph Stranger's Wireless Library for the Man in the Street.
49
attracts to a point, and then repels,and isattracted by some-
thing with a greater force until it reaches a point, then is
again repelled, only to be attracted by something with an
even greater force, and so on, ad infinitum.
Therefore the free rotating weak field force (W.F.F.)
electrons may at any moment be attracted away from their
atom, especiallyif their temperature is increased. This also
increasestheir speed and changes their field force, causing
what is termed the "electronic flow." If these electrons
fl.ow away, the atomic nucleus will give off more weak
F.F. electrons, and will draw more strong field force elec-
trons to itself from its source, because it is always acting
along an invisible line of energy, which is supplied from
the Great Central Sun, and if any force intervenes to cut
off that supply or fl.ow,the atom may lose its identity en-
tirely, as its nucleus would be shattered.
Authorities have thought that the nucleus and its pro-
tons and electrons were cemented together and held in
position, but the theory does not allow for activity as it is ·
manifesting, therefore it would stand to reason that the
center having its strong F.F. electrons throws off weak
F.F. electrons according to the atomic speed, which isgov-
erned largely by temperature.
In sound, we have that vibratory action which, when
brought forth harmoniously, produces form. Inharmony
shatters it. Its action takes place on the physical plane,
scientifically speaking, through the flow of a combination
of strong F.F. electrons meeting a flow of weak F.F. elec-
trons whose F.F. isalmost at the elasticstage in wave flow.
50
When they meet they adhere, and a pattern is created, or
destroyed in favor of another pattern.
If we could see the process taking place we would see
the electrons shaping themselves even as a company of
well-trained soldiers fall into line to create formations at
a command from an officer. The cohesive power again is
the strongest field force, and the pattern takes its shape
from the full round tones or harmonics.
An appreciation of this comes when we analyze our
feelings during the playing of a piece of music, which is
made up of harmony. We fall into vibration with it, and
are lifted up into a feeling of harmony towards all the
world. When inharmonious notes are produced we feel
shattered and out of sorts.
Certain experiments have been made concerning mag-
netism. It hasbeen found that an ~on wire, when subjected
to tension while it is being magnetized, increases in mag-
netization in a weak field and decreases in a strong field.
However, if the wire is fixed at one end and a current is
passedthrough it, it will twist itself. Also an unmagnetized
wire held at oneendwith amagneticcurrent passedthrough
it will become magnetized.
Heat causesspeedingup of the electron, which no doubt
is the force behind magnetism. Cold,.when equal and op-
posite to the force of heat, holds a different kind of mole-
cule attracted magnetically to the metal magnetized.
Therefore metals attract their own vibrations when a
flow of current is passedthrough them at a certain speed,
but attract molecules of other vibrations when the speed
51
is increased or diminished.For instance, heat speedsup the
molecules and cold retards their flow; consequently they
are more or less held in the strong F.F. of the earth when
cold, and draw electrons of a faster flow than themselves,
or opposite polarity. This is the reason for the adherence
of the warm tongue to freezing iron pipes in winter. The
pipe hascontracted into a strong F.F., giving off few if any
electrons, and attracting and holding any of the warmer
or faster-flowing electrons. These soon become the same
strong F.F., thus causing water to freeze and form ice on
itself and the pipe.
Now we have the reason for electric currents flowing
along any metal that is grounded (earthed). The faster-
moving electrons are more magnetic and warmer; they are
therefore attracted to metals whose electrons are colder,
or flowing not at all, but which are one with the earth.
Resistancesplaced between the two cause a slowing up of
the faster-moving electrons, and the original sound which
was sent out on the ethers can be reproduced again on its
way to the earth.
All these electrons must be resisted in like manner to
the manner of projection. Wheat cannot produce oats, but
it can produce its own kind, because wheat energy was
projected. In other words, wheat energy can be received
again and reproduce wheat.
Likewise, sound is projected; only sound can be re-
ceived in the samemanner.
When copper, which is repelled by a magnetic pole, is
earthed, its own molecules cannot act, and when a mag-
52
netic flow of current is attached to it, it attracts the whole
molecular electronic flow. Thus the sound is heard when
properly resisted, or when heat or any of the so-called
radio or electric phenomena are produced.
"When magnetic lines of force 'cut' a conductor at
right angles, they induce in the conductor an E.M.F.
(electro-motive force) and if the conductor forms a closed
circuit a current will flow around the circuit. Induced cur-
rents always resist any change produced by induction."*
The above rule explains one of the most important fac-
tors in health. If the Life Force drawn into the body is
used to make ourselvespositive, no other influence can dis-
turb us, because our induced currents resist them. In other
words, man creates a magnetic field around himself, even
as the wire over which an induced current flows, and if he
keeps himself positive, this field will be undisturbed. If he
becomes negative, and allows himself to grow angry or
out of balance, other influencescan sweep in, and the mag-
netic field is no longer harmonious. This causes a state of
dis-easeto existaround and in the body.t
•Ralph Stranger's Wireless Library for the Man in the Street.
tin like manner, if we are inharmonious and send such thoughts towards
others there will not be a clear path of energy for them to flow forth, and
they will drop into our own magnetic field, disturbing us all the more until
they work back into our own bodies through the pores of the skin as well
as the spleen and lungs. Our whole system will thus be in a state of dis-ease.
We little realize how much we are the cause of our own illnesses. A very
fine version of the Golden Rule is, "I would think no thought towards
another I would not another think towards me. I would think no thought
towards myself I would not wish fulfilled." Thus if we want ease in our
bodies we must be balanced in our feelings and thoughts. It is well to remem-
ber also that if we send out thoughts to others they start returning at once
to ourselves because of the fact that we are "conductors," and form a
closed circuit, causing a current to flow back along the line of induced
energy following the thoughts sent out.
53
The usual idea entertained by most people is that the
blood builds the body. The function of the light energy,
of which the blood is the liquid manifestation, is not to
build the body, but to destroy unnecessary portions of it.
For instance, the energy which flows over the nervous sys-
tem and through the blood vessels is, as we have stated, a
liquid form of invisible light, positive in its polarity. It
constitutes the nucleus of the atom, and throws off and
draws in negative electrons from the earth which are
magnetically attracted to its pattern. It carries substances
through its channel, and sends quantities of this liquid to
all parts of the body for the purpose of destroying old
waste products, taking them off to the large channels, or
intestines. In addition, it bears the different elements ac-
quired through food, water and air to the various body areas.
The blood plasma is destructive to form (as also is the
energy fl.owing over the nervous system), if not supplied
with electrons from the earth. These electrons are drawn
through the pores of the skin and tprough the blood ves-
sels, the entrance into the latter being made through the
lungs as well as through the gastro-intestinal tract.
The nerves use the channels of the lymphatics and endo-
crine glands to transform their energy and supply the
endocrine hormones to the body str:ucture. Incidentally,
it is necessary to bear in mind that the glands and organs
of the body have two functions with which we should
always work. One is INVISIBLE
function or activity, the
other is VISIBLE-visible,
that is, only as it affects the outer
body. Each gland, of course, hasits own particular part to
54
play in the whole, just as the suprarenals are one of the
points or centers through which the Life Force comes.
All the glands are conductors of Light or Life Force, but
that becomes meaningless without the brain over which
the main Life Force flows.
The venous blood emptying into the lungs carries all
waste products back to the ethers, the lungs acting asa bel-
lows to draw in and and send out the gaseousenergy.
Being the largest organ in the body, and holding one-
fourth of its blood at one time, the liver acts as a trans-
former for the foods taken into the body, from which it
balances the electronic flow. It selects and stores all sub-
stanceswhich might cause acids or ferments, thus permit-
ting the body to draw upon its store-house asits needswar-
rant. It is the thermostat of our mechanism,and when it is
thrown out of harmony the whole system is unbalanced.
Now we come to the influence of heat upon the atoms
of the body. Since atomic speed is governed largely by
temperature, we realize that a normal body temperature,
with a balanced control of the feelings,brings about health.
For instance, let us assume that the brain is a flood-gate
through which invisible energy, or Life Force, flows into
the body.
The central nerves are located in the pineal gland, the
cerebellum and the Bundle of His in the heart. Man is so
constituted that he can open or closethis flood-gateat will,
and slow down the force field of energy of any part of
the body.
The body alsohasits force field (known to some people
55
as its aura, but known to the physician as the emotional or
feeling world) .This field of force, slowed down or speeded
up, will throw the body atoms out of balance and cause an
electronic flow. It also cuts off the invisible energy fl.ow
to a degree, and instead of the body atom functioning nor-
mally at its own speed, it changes, and atoms of other ele-
ments are formed; deposits also appear according to the
atomic change.
This energy is in continuous activity, and is attracted by
the force field of the earth, from which there is a counter
field of force. The two together create the electro-mag-
netic action, even as two poles of energy create power if
they are held opposite each other. This power, acting on
gases, causes the formation of electricity, or the branches
of trees and their roots, or, let us say, the nervous system
and the blood vesselsin the body, all these patterns being
similar.
When this electronic tiow has been lessened in its nor-
mal channel and is forced out of its equilibrium by the
unstable feelings of an individual, the force field is like the
placid pool after a pebble has been dropped into it. The
ripples throw off so many W.F.F. electrons that the body
atoms become a gelatinous mass, and so-called disintegra-
tion takes place in the structure. This is the beginning
of cancer.
When the field of force is slowed down by suppression
of the feelings, the earth sideofthe power becomesstronger
and like uranium; the atoms become so solid and have such
an intense magnetic pull that solid substances form, and
tumorous conditions are created.
All this leads to the reason for the method of therapy
used in the Drown work. It seemsnecessaryto help people
realizethat when they find themselvesin a state of dis-ease
the cause comes from within themselves. They are not
always aware of this, but since everyone is the center of
the Universe to himself,it isimperative for him to compre-
hend that he governs it, either consciously or uncon-
sciously. For this reason he must know why he has
permitted a lack of ease to come forth in his world; he
must alsoknow something about that world, in order that
he may better understand the cause of his lack of ease.
57
CHAP1ERIV
RADIO-VISION PHOTOGRAPHS
WE COME NOW to the subject of pictures made by the
use of wires and tubes, without employing visible
light or lenses.
Everyone isaware of the general equipment of the radio,
or knows that a wire, called an aerial, is employed to catch
some of the energy in the ethers, by means of which the
radio reproduces sound. This has been in use for so long
that it is not thought unusual, although most people do
not understand it entirely.
The idea that sound can be captured in this manner and
heard at a moment's notice is not now considered fan-
tastic; however, to tune into an individual, either directly
or at a distance, and take his picture is difficult ~or many
to believe.
Nevertheless, research has been going on along these
lines for the past three years, and it is now a proven fact
that with the use of the aerial we can photograph what
might be called a conglomerate mass of energy from the
ethers. If we have a specimen of blood from man or ani-
mal, or a small piece of gold, we can take pictures of the
sources of each on the physical plane.
In other words, with a specimen of blood we can make
a body picture of that individual or animal whose blood
we have in our instrument, and through the rate of vibra-
tion of the histological structure we can select any part
58
THE DROWN RADIO - VISION INSTRUMENT
USED FOR PHOTOGRAPHING INTERNAL PORTIONS OF THE BODY
of the body for photographing. However, this cannot be
done after the death of that person or animal, as the Life
Force has then been withdrawn.
Our theory goes back to the electronic and molecular
arrangement of all parts of the body. In our medical and
scientific laboratories we study the organs of the chicken,
the dog and the guinea pig, so that we may recognize these
organs in the human. Therefore we know, for instance,
that wherever found, a liver isat once known assuch.
Hence we have basedour work on the rates of vibration
which we have discovered for the histological structure
of the animal, and use these rates to analyze the human.
We find that the vibrations are the same,but the animating
Life Force is different.
When we place the blood of an individual, be he ill or
healthy, into our instrument, we tune in on our dialsto the
rate of vibration of the organ or gland we desireto photo-
graph. We next drop ,afilm of the desired color sensitivity
into the container of the hookup, and use the sametiming
and development we would employ in taking a picture by
the usual methods. Our photograph is then completed
upon the film.
This procedure is proof of the various statements we
have previously made concerning light. It is also proof
that everything in the Universe has a rate of vibration, and
that the emanation from any radio-active substance can
produce its own picture. Therefore, if its action isthe same
as light, it must be a form of light.
All of which sends us back to our ancient writings to
59
read and study with a new understanding what they have
been trying to convey to us for thousands of years!
Since everything is made up of vibration, is there any
reasonwhy we should not take pictures through the ethers
and see a subject, as well as hear a sound? The only dif-
ference between the two is this-the individual or animal
is continuously sending out energy, which is as conti-
nuously returning to its source; when we take a radio-
vision photograph we merely catch some of that energy
on a filmasit passesby; the sound issent out mechanically,
and picked up mechanically.
All this is true television, since it is done through the
ethers, without"wires, although our radio programs come
over a wire net-work. Once more we refer back to nature
as the outpicturing of immutable laws and exact science.
The animating Light or Life Force of the body comes
through the pineal gland and anchors in the Bundle of His
in the heart. It still supplies the heart, even though the
latter may physically be disconnectedfrom the body, since
through experimentation it has been proved that when a
live heart taken from the body is placed in normal salt
solution at a normal temperature, it will beat indefinitely.
It will readily be seen that the so-called invisibleLight
is the activating meansby which this takes place. ·'
The pictures taken with the Drown Radio-Vision In-
strument prove this theory. They are made by touching
either the patient or the blood with a wire. This acts as an
aerial, carrying the patient's energy into the instrument
through the rate of vibration of the part desired. Its out-
60
PHOTOGRAPH OF THE PYLORIC END OF THE STOMACH
AND DUODENUM, MADE WITH THE DROWN RADIO-VISION INSTRUMENT
line is placed upon the film in a natural, normal scanning
process.
The fact that pictures may be taken by using the blood
as a radio beam is explained in this manner: when placed
on a blotter, the blood is crystallized, even as ice is crys-
tallized steam, and each small atom is the precipitated
crystallized end of an invisible line which reaches into the
ethers. This invisible line passes through the body over
the nerves and through the blood-vessels,and the electrons
from air, water and earth supply the body structure, attach-
ing themselves to this line, which holds the pattern of
the body.
The invisibleline istherefore the Life Force of the body.
It also takes the form of liquid and gases when the elec-
tronic flow is speeded up fast enough to produce ~eat.
Since this blood is crystallized light, it acts as light, and
has the speed of light. Therefore its energy passesaround
the world seven and three-quarters times per second, pos-
sibly more. This does away with the idea of distance, and
shows that the vibration of everything in the world is
where we are; we need only take it out of the ethers and
pass it through our instrument in order to treat a patient
at a distance, or make a picture of any part of his body.
CHAPTER V
DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT
IN THE PREVIOUS chapter we discussedpictures made by
the individual'sown energy. These are proof that when
we tune into any part of a body we have selected it from
the rest of that body, and identified it as such. If it is in a
state of dis-easewe are able to discern this and treat it.
Diagnosisby means of the Drown Radio Method is the
selection of any part of the body, and the measurement of
the amount of Life Force functioning there according to
the calibration and scale of our instrument. Since "life is
conditioned in motion," we never find any part function-
ing at high normal, but always with variation. Thus the
necessity for understanding the instruments with which
we work.
By "tuning into" the body we can determine the action
of the various organs, glands, systems and parts, and de-
tect the· presence of disease. In addition, the impinged
nerves can be recorded, and a differential blood count,
urinalysis,blood pressure and temperature can be taken.
The therapy consists of placing the individual in series
with the instrument, and using his own energy as a means
of treatment, even asnature doeswhen a cut finger is to be
healed. No more energy is felt during these treatments
than during the healing of the finger, but the results are
forthcoming. The more acute a condition,the morequickly
the healing manifests;in chronic casesthe opposite is true.
62
By "energy" we mean that electro-magnetic force
which is generated by the combination of the minerals and
the fluids in the body, as well as the total Life Force, or
invisible Light ray. These tog~ther form a current similar
to that of a dry cell battery. This invisible light energy
definitely registers on the microampere meter attached to
the instrument.
Thus by this method individuals heal themselves; the
doctor merely directs it to a degree, nature being the
Master Builder. It will be easilyunderstood, therefore, that
anyone wishingthis form of diagnosisand treatment should
first know his source of life energy, artd the way in which
he obstructs its channels with his thoughts and feelings.
If he would command his body into health and maintain
that health, he must make it his definite work to try to
harmonizehimself.
In this volume it has been our endeavor to discuss our
work assimply and yet asscientificallyas possible,in terms
that can be understood by the lay mind. Technical details
will be found in our treatise, The Theory and Technique
of the Drown H. V.R. and Radio-Vision Instruments.
