{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__doreal___material_inharmony.pdf","mytitle":"Material Inharmony","mylang":"de"}
MATERIAL s
INHARMONY
and
HOW TO
OVER­
COMEM
A ,
D
R
.
B
O
R
K
A
i
,
r
i.
■& 1 0 .
M A T E R I A L IN H A R M O N Y
A N D H O W T O
O V E R C O M E I T
C o p y r i g h t b y :
B R O T H E R H O O D O F W H I T E T E M P L E , I N C .
U . S . A .
1
M A T E R IA L IN HARM O N Y
AN D HOW TO
O VERCOM E IT
By
Doreal
I know that material condition# in our livq?. conditions o f inharmo*
ny in our environment, most certainly react upon our spiritual
unfoldment or development It is an absolute fact that unless man
can be freed from worries, from fears, from physical pains, that he
cannot put the full force o f his attention or concentration upon the
attainment of the spiritual ideal or goal. For that reason I think it
a very important thing that we learn how to control the conditions
of life in which we find ourselves because the true development
means development and balance on the three piar.es of man's being,
th physiol or material plane, the mental plane and spiritual plane.
One cannot be said to be perfectly developed unless they have mas­
tered all of the three planes upon which they function.
Material inharmony, coming to us in our material life, is a great
hindrance and obstacle to our attainm ent When I say, that it is a
great obstacle to our attainment, I mean literally and troubles
that are arrsing#in the»r everyflay life, is going to be able to control
the conditions of the spiritual plane, much less, those of the ma­
terial plane.
I want to speak to you especially about certain of the faults that
we all have, faults that act as barriers to material harmony in our
lives. I Have had a lot o f experience with personal problems. I
expect, altogether, I have found, without exception, that those
problems arose because o f some, fault in their manner of think­
ing or living.
It « very seldom that anyone has not come to me with a personal
prob'em that they did not believe was the fault of someone else.
That is one o f our greatest troubles. We always think that the
other person is the cause of our condition or trouble when, as a
matter o f fact, no inharmony or condition can appear in our lives
unless we ourselves create a condition which is harmonious to
its development. Therefore, if there is a condition of inharmony
in our lives we have to beer at least half of the blame for it/Just
remember that if you had not set up a .pause, the effect could not
have come to you.
There is another thing however about that has a very important
bearing upon conditions in our lives. That is, when we accept any
person or persons into our personal life, the causes set up by that
person are going to affect us in some degree, because of our accep­
tance of that person into our personal life, so we do not say that
all the blame for any condition lies in any one person. It is a com­
bination o f a number of factors However, we can create condi­
tions in our own mind or thoughts, in our own lives which will
help to eliminate the conditions which we find negative or inhar­
monious.
There is another thing that enters into that. That is the matter of
free will. Often a person will come to me and say. "Doreal, my
husband or m y son drinks too much, and they are making them­
selves miserable and everyone around them. Will you not stop them
from drinking". Doreal cannot stop them from drinking, unless that
person comes to me themselves miserable and everyone around them.
If we do have such a condition in our life, let us say a drunkard
in our family, we have to understand that part of the blame for
that is in ourselves, becauso we are helping to maintain or hold a
condition of inharmony which brings that condition into a focal
point in our life.I
I had one lady come to me some years ago. Her husband had been
drinking a great deal and site wanted help, and I asked her to get
him to come and talk to me as he wanted to stop. He came to see
me and I halt a long talk w ith him and he told me how he had fal­
len into the habbit o f getting irritated and drinking too much. He
would stop on his w ay home from work, and take one drink and
come home and he would have tlw smell of liquor on his breath
and then get fwll from hi* w ife and flwiily...The .members o f hi*
family had given* him up as a hopeless drunk and they were constant­
ly, talking about it and expressing it until, they created a condition
harmonious1 to the condition in his life and. because their causes
were all bianded. the condition continued.
M y cure for that was simple. That was to get every member cf the
family to absolutely ignore it In their.own consciousness and go on
as if nothing had happened. In a months tim e he quit drinking
because there was no longer a maintenance o f that condition in
his surroundings. As a matter of fact, it was not his fault, but the
fault of his family.
We know that in the life o f the average person tl»ere is a mixture
o f good and bad occurences. Fortunately, they finally will balance
each other in the life o f the average individual. Otherwise, we would
have a very hard time, when as a matter o f fact, the average person
is able to pass through life with only a few oustanding negative
happenings that come only at intervals.
There is one thing that we have to understand and that is that
nothing comes into our life unless there is a cause set up. Many
times that cause is not a direct one. That is, the person does not
have to commit a certain act to get a certain result or effect in
their life, it may be the combination of many minor things or
continuance of improper thinking and acting.
One o f m y Gurus in the East once said to me, that it is said, that
'as a man thinketh, so is he'. That is not entirely true, it is not
'as a man thinketh' but as a man accepts thoughts that pass through
hts mind that he becomes that which he thinks. By that, we mean
this: that if a person is of a nature whore they bring Into their
mind constant inharmonious and negative thoughts and dwell on
them, that they have accepted those thoughts and .they become
conscious of them, they become as real as if we went out and did
something with our physical hands or body.
In stroking o f that there is just one little fault that is quite coin-
mcn to most of U9. myself included. That is, that little fault of
gossip. But the trouble with our gossip is that it is not construct­
ive. We usually gossip about the bad things that we beer about
3
people. How car. they 3ffect our life? Do you nor realize that every
time you accept or express a negative thought about someone else
that you have created the potentiality o f a like condition, happening
in your own life? It is all of these little things that create a vibration
o f ir.harmony, that keep our life in a constant condition of Inhar i
mony. You accept the consciousness of a negative happening or *
thing, therefore, as you thought, it became. It was in your mind and |
it became associated with you. Perhaps exactly the same thing you
had talked about never happening to you but some other negative
thing is brought on because there has been an inharmonious vibre
tion or thought acccepted into your mind. In other words, like
attracts, like.
That is one reason the great teachers o f the East have always said
that it is not enough to keep an outward face of love and kindness
but that we must literally dwell upon the consiousness of those
things in our inner self all the time, that we must reject and refuse
to accept negative consciousness end negative things which come
to us in life originate, i>ot from acts on our pert, but from thoughts
and words which we have had and said about other persons and
their negative happenings.
Another one o f the great faults that help to create a condition of
inharmony in our life is a condition quite common to mankind
and to metaphysical students. That is, the consciousness o f into­
lerance. How many people are really tolerant? We set up a fixed
standard of values and because we have accepted them in our own
minds, evory person who does not is violating divine law and comit-
ting sin and we become very orthodox in our ideas and views.I
I believe, in fact I know, that there is a certain fixed period between
incarnations, but I know that there are many hundreds of thousands
o f persons in the world that believe in something entirely different.
There are other persons that do not believe in it. Because they not
believe in it end I do, does not mean that I must be intole
rant o f them end say they are absolutely wrong, they are doom­
ed becauso they are in that condition. I have to he tolerant of their
belief, realizing that the things which each person believes and
does is according to their own lack, or according to their own un- \
demanding. .
Too often, our intolerance causes us to pass judgment when we do
not know all the factors or conditions that have entered into a
thing. That is one o f the very commonest of our failings; we jump
to conclusions. We hear something and immediately we accept
that in a negative sense. We do not know w hy a thing is. Just to
give you an instance:quite some Brotherhood Work was dismissed—
no one could understand why. They had been such a good talker and
was such a wonderful person. A lot of people, who knew the person7
condemned me for it. Actually, that person had embezzled money
and had been given a second opportunity and had not changed their
consciousness and so were dismissed until such time as they changed
their consciousness. It was neither up to me to gossip about it or
condemn them, but I had to separate myself trom walking the same
path they did until such time as they could walk a path in my own
consciousness. Too often we would condemn the person, we would
say that person is a thief. Not at all, because no person really is.
A fter all, we came not steal anything. How can any person really
commit a sin if all things which exist are a. part of God? How can
or.2 person taka a part of God which is theirs? If in their conscious­
ness they were conscious o f violating laws that had been accepted
as a standard, they would never advance or develop until there was
b change in their own consciousness.
I said, a moment ago, that intolerance was one o f the great faults.
It is so often I have heard some person belonging to some religious
sect, say, "we are right and everybody else is going to Hell" because
they do not believe as we do". I do not believe that if everyone
docs not believe as I do that they are not going to advance or develop
or unfold, becasue there are many paths tc God. We may find God
in any direction that we turn. It depends entirely upon oursolves.I
I am going to tell a little story that I have told before. It is a true
story told me by a friend o f mine who lived in Alabama and who
knew the parties concemd. In a little town in Alabama, quite well-
named Reform, Alabama, there was a Methodist minister came to
town and started a tent meeting and this minister went out to the
farms and invited all of the farm er* to come to the services. Driving
along the road he saw an old negro man, Sam Smith, so he stopped
his car end walked over to where the old negro man was plowing
and invited him tc come into town -to the meeting and the old
negro man said, " I always attend meetings, I will be there." The
minister said, "By the way Sam, what denomination, do you be-
5
long to?" Sam looked at him anc1 said "Wall sir, i will tell you, I
ra»ag corn on my little patch of ground. There are three road* into
town w ith m y com , th« com buyer docs not say, *S»n. What road
did you come by?' I think that is very true cf our path to the
Divine. It is not the path, i t b what wa do and accomplish on that
path, because all roads lead to God, The ancients once said, 'all
rosdt lead to Rome’. A ll roads lead to God. It docs not make any
difference whether a person is bom a Mohammedan, Buddhist or
Christian., if they truly seek God with ell their mind and heart,
they will surefy find God, because God is everywhere end there
b nothing that exbts that does no have God in it.
One o f the common things that ceusss inharmony in our life is
jbelousy. Most o f us are very badly afflicted with that disease.
Every person is sick who is not absolutely harmonious in relation­
ship with God. A ll inharmony » sickness of the soul.
So often, we w ill find a person jealous o f what another hss accom­
plished. N ot long ago, I was walking along the street and heard two
men talking. I heard one man soy, "I am glad M r. Roosevelth has
passed u law that no man can make $25,000 a year. That b too
much money for one persons." As a matter o f feet, that man pvas
je?!cus, nothing In the world but jeelousy. He did not make it;
why should somebody else?
The same thing wo find true in our everyday life. Some lady will
say, "Mrs. Jones had a new het and spring outfit. She's always
gating new things". Then probably the old man catches hell until
he digs down. That b all right but still, it is the motive 2 nd cons
cioowess which we arouse in ourselves which b one of inharmony
and negation and wo find it quite common in metaphysical stu­
dents.
N ot long ego, some person came to me and said "I have been In the
Brotherhood a long time and have not gained conscious astral pro­
jection and another one has been in three months, and gained it.
I do not see why they should have h and I do n o t" It was the
consciousness which they had that hindered their development
Our development depends upon whether w» create a condition of
I'armony for the manifestation of things.
6
Jealousy has no part m i tvine, because do you not realize
this: that when you are jealous of another person or their accom­
plishments. that you are actually jealous of God’s bounty to that
person. You are actually saying. "God. I know you are great but
I do not like the way you are giving this to someone else and not
to m e". God says, "if you do not like the way I am acting I will
stay away from "you".
I knew an old farmer in Oklahoma, that old farmer had no educa­
tion whatsoever, but give him a problem and he would solve it just
like that and they asked him how he solved it and he said, " I do
not know. I only use common horse sense". The things we do in
life may seem small to us but in the aggregate they help to create
conditions which surround us in life and we wonder why we are
not able to overcome obstdes.
Another thing that is very much related to jealousy is hate. Most of
us have hate in a greater or lesser degree for some person or thing.
It has even become a common expression: " I hate that"and every­
one uses it and when they do they usually mean it. I have known
thousands of persons who were very, very seriously ill for no other
person in the world than the hate they had allowed to rankle within
themselves. They might hate the environment they are in. not
realizing that by the very hatred of that environment that they
create a condition that holds them in that environment. Sometime
ago, a lady came to me and told me about a house that site pur­
chased, site had had to sell her nice place and buy a smaller place.
It was not what she once had and she said "I hate that house. I
cannot help It. I just hate it". I said "well what good does that do"
and she said, " I know it is wrong, but I still hato that place and
I want to sell it. I want to get another place", and I said, "You
had better quit hating that house or you will never get rid of it".
About three weeks later, her husband called me up on the phone
and said, "M y wife is in the hospital very badly injured." She was
sitting on the railing o f the veranda on the second floor and the
railing gave way and she fell dowq and broek several ribs and the
collar bone and is in a tcrriblo condition". She had hated that house
until she had infused it with her hate and it hated her back. That
house literally bocame an entity that tried to kill her, but was it
the house? No. It was her own hate that became an actual entity
and was infused with life by'her own creative power. Whan I went
to see her in the hospital I told her so and she said, "just before I
fell I felt like a web o f hate had me and I fell and did knot know
any more." .
Do you not know that a condition like tfv.< is what gives rise to
tne stories of haunted houses, some focalization that a person
has had for a house or person in h. I said, instead o f hating that
house just begin to love it.” She did and by the time she got out
of the hospital her husband had sold it. That was an environmen­
tal condition that was maintained and she was held to that house
by her hatred for it. Do you not realize that a lot of times you will
have some condition in your environment that you will hate so
much that you cannot get rid of it.
That is the reason teachers say, you have to retease things if you
desire to eliminate them. When we use that word "retease' most
people do not understand just what it means. It means, an inner
obliteration of it from oue consciousness.
8
You know, a lot of time, we have inharmony In our lives because
we dwell on that condition too much. Some little thing w ill hap­
pen; we will take it inio ourselves and we will feed it because, after
all, as the groat wisdom teachers of the East say, "nothing can
exist relative to the soul unless that soul gives power to its conti­
nued existence"* and where there is some condition in your life
and we become immersed in it, it becomes a part o f our nature,
filled with our creative power. #
It is an absolutely true fact that if any condition, o f inharmony
comes into our Mves, if wo would look at it and adopt an absolute­
ly impersonal attitude towards it ar.d say, "what difference does it
make”, and separate from it, it will fade away arid adopt that ab­
solute impersonal attitude towards things, inside of a week's time
all inharmonious conditions would vanish, but the trouble is that
we personafize everything in relationship to us. We attach ourselves
to it; we make it a part of our lives and hold to it.
That is just like the lady whose sister was sending negative vibrations
against her and was trying to kill her with negative thoughts. The
sister thought she was doing the same thing to her and each o f them
was killing them solves by their own negative thoughts.
x> true that if we will create in our consciousness an absolutely
harmonious realization of things and if we will rise above them by
realizing that there is nothing which exists in the universe that is
permanent, that it is all impermanent and makes no differences be­
cause in the end it will dissolve itself back into Maya, illusion, from
which it sprang, w t would have little trouble in life. It is an absolute
fact that there is no permanent thing in our lives.
I have a little mental trick that i usa In relationship to any distur-
bing or inharmonious occurrence that might arise in my life. Natu­
rally, dealing w ith thousands o f people as I do they are bound to
bring me negative problems but my attitude is something like this:
here is something that appears negative. Shall 1 immerse myself in
it? Then the thoutfit comas to me. here is this thing which is con­
fronting you today. It seems big. Now, it seems powerful, it seems
like something that has to be fought, that has to be eliminated, but
shall I do that? Then, I say. 'if I worry about that now. will I not
maka it stronger and if I refuse to accept it as a negative condition,
what power will it have over m y life? Then I think in this manngcr:
I try to think beck. We will a y today is the 14th day March, 1943
and I try to remember February 14th, 1934. Can you remember
what happened to you in February 1934? I cannot. I cannot even
tell you what *own I was in at that time. I am quite certain at
that tim e I had worries and problems confronting me but after ten
years I have forgotten all about it. and in ten years from now today's
problems will also be forgotten, so why worry about it today. Is it
not the value and the time element, the npwness th.at we put inu.
them, that gives them power over us? A fter all, the reason that these
things manifests in our lives and continue to have power over us is
because we give power to them, Everytime there is a negative con­
dition which comes into our life and we worry about it we refuse
to worry about it and ignore it, it goes away because nothing can
come to us unless we have created a fertile resting ground for it.
We know that the problems that confront each individual appears
different and to each person^their own problem appears greater,
but do you know that after having contacted tens of thousands
of persons, I wish that they ail follow very nearly the same path.
I find every one of them originate from the same basic cause, that
we huve created a condition of inharmonious thought and we have
personalized every little thing tnat comes -into our life until we
create a condition of inharmony which attracts a like condition into
9
our life and, therefore, we say this; that if one is to overcome and
surmount those difficulties they must learn to walk through life
unafraid and without allowing anything that comes to become
personal to them. No matter how it seems to effect your personal
life, inside o f your it cannot touch you, it can only affect the ex­
ternal world. The internal world cannot be touched because that is
God's world. That Is the reason the ancients said that if man desired
to commune with God that ha had to maka his mind still and calm
a<xl quiet like an untroubled, still pool in the forest. Only by so do­
ing could he create a perfect mirror in which the divine light the
divine wisdom could reflect.
10
★ ★ ★
