{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__dingle___art_of_true_living_treatise_1.pdf","mytitle":"Art Of True Living Treatise 1","mylang":"de"}
EDWIN j. DINGLE, F.R.G.S.
Founder of the Science o f M entalphysics
Internationally-Know n Psychologist, Author
and Philosopher
P resident and Preceptor Em eritus
The In stitu te o f M entalphysics
'
Treatise No. I
TheArt0$ Truetiring
by
Edwin J. Dingle, F. R. G. S.
( F o u n d e r o f T h e S c i e n c e o f M e n t a l p h y a i c g )
(Copyright, 1937, The Institute of Mentalphysics)
A STRANGE MESSAGE FROM A LAND WHERE THE ART
HAS NOT BEEN FORGOTTEN
* I COME TO YOU today with a message that should be instrumental in
tearing out by the roots all of evil, and lack, and disappointment in our life,
and replacing it with happiness, comfort, plenty and success. From a far
land I bring word that our conception of the shortness of life, and the neces­
sity of sickness, and the inevitability of poverty and want IS ALL A
MISTAKE.
I bring word that we have been deceived in these matters, or have de­
ceived ourselves, and have been suffering UNNECESSARILY, when OLD
AGE CAN BE POSTPONED FOR YEARS, SICKNESS MADE A RARE
AND BRIEF AFFAIR. ELIMINATED ALTOGETHER IN MANY CASES,
and that there is, available to us, health in abundance, happiness supreme,
mental power that is simply astonishing, and MONEY FAR BEYOND OUR
REASONABLE HOPES. I bring word that there is within you & mighty
power that can take you ten times as far in the accomplishment of your hopes
and ambitions as you have ever before gone. And I bring you an under­
standing of that power, and methods for USING it, that are little known in
our Western world, and that have been HIDDEN away, except to a chosen
few, for ages.
That is an astounding declaration, I know. Especially when I say that
these things can happen here and now, in the year in which we are iiving,
not in some dim and distant future, or in the next life. Especially when I
say that they can happen to YOU, easily and naturally, as well as quickly.
I do not ask you to accept this staggering declaration now. / ask only that
you keep an open mind until it is proved to you, that you give me enough
of your time to present that proof.
A Three Thousand Year Old Legacy For You
■ I take no credit, personally, for discovering these truths. I was as amazed
as you will be when they were first disclosed to me. I am merely the instru­
ment through which they are passed along from far wiser and better men
than I am—men whom I believe to be the wisest on earth today—the latest
of a three-thousand-year-old UNBROKEN CHAIN OF WISE MEN.
When I say, therefore, that for three thousand years this message has been
on its way to you, relayed from generation to generation, carefully guarded
and cherished in the hands of a select few, refined and simplified and added
to by the great spirits of their time, you will, I am sure, give it serious con­
sideration. For it is all true, as you may see -later on; and no sensible man
or woman could refuse to investigate such priceless knowledge when it is
offered.
Methods That Have Tremendous Effect
■ I am sure that you, like all intelligent people, appreciate that the greatest
truths of life have not hitherto been printed—or if printed, have not been
completely understood or realized. Mere intellectual understanding is noth­
ing—the Wise Men have discovered that truth makes men free only when it
is FELT to the very depths of the soul, made a MAINSPRING of our every
thought and action. Then, as many great men have demonstrated, it gives
men power undreamed of, the might to shake the world. Then, as stories of
apparent miracles in many parts of the world confirm, it gives the energy to
accomplish the seemingly impossible. My great mission in life is to disclose
to you methods and practices these wise men used in ESCAPING from mere
intellectual grasp of truth, in making truth a part of the VERY BEING, its
VAST POWER theirs to do with as they will.
Simple W'ays That Have Been Proved Through the Ages
■ That tremedous power within us has been dimly realized, of course, in
our Western world. But our writers and our psychologists have had only a
faint idea of how to USE THIS GREAT POWER, how to call upon it when
and where we will. Usually, their methods do not work, except in rare cases.
YET FOR THREE THOUSAND YEARS COMPARATIVELY SIMPLE
METHODS FOR USING ALL THIS POWER HAVE BEEN KNOWN AND
USED BY THE WISE MEN OF THE EAST. From generation to generation
the methods have been improved upon and simplified, until now they can be
used with TREMENDOUS EFFECT by almost any ordinarily intelligent
person. They can be used by you, as I expect to prove to you, in meeting
your personal problems, in building the superior mind and ability and power
necessary to carry out your ambitions, to fulfill your desires, and in giving
you greater strength to fight off sickness and old age.
Wishes Made To Come True
■ Like all honest people, you no doubt feel that honesty should always be
rewarded, that the good things of life should not be only for the selfish. I
say to you that if you get in tune with the great power within you, honesty is
RICHLY AND QUICKLY REWARDED, and that THE GOOD THINGS OF
LIFE PILE THEMSELVES UPON THE UNSELFISH.
Like all generous people, you want the ability to help your loved ones, to
bring their hopes, as well as you own, to fruition. I say to you that the
—2—
power to do this is already within you, ready to be called upon and used, and
that the methods of these wise men WILL SHOW YOU HOW TO USE THAT
POWER IN SEEKING THE FULFILLMENT OF SUCH A NOBLE AND
UNSELFISH PURPOSE.
Like all sincere people you are probably mystified by the seeming cruelty
of sickness and poverty and old age all around you. I declare to you that
all these are unnecessary, not intended by a kind Creator, brought on, prin­
cipally, by too much reliance on ourselves and too little upon the great power
within us—and that the methods developed by these wise men are effective
in relieving sickness, maintaining youth through many years, and eliminating
poverty altogether.
Be Master of Your Own Destiny
* Like all who are not craven slaves, you want to be free of bosses, and debts,
and worries—captain of your own ship, master of your own fate, free to
carry out your plans, and victorious in accomplishing them. I say to you
that SUCH IS YOUR DESTINY—and the only one who can prevent it is
yourself.
Finally, I am sure, you do not want to be hindered in these high endeavors,
by any handicap whatever—whether real or imaginary, whether of the mind
or the body, whether sickness or old age, lack of money or lack of youth. I
declare to you that, instead of being limited by a one-man-power mind, you
have at your disposal the mind-power of the ages—a thousand man power or
more—which can brush aside such petty handicaps as if they were nothing.
Long-Hidden Practices of The Wise Men
■ Do these statements seem to stagger you? I confess that they did me
when they were first made to me. But since then, I have learned even more
astounding truths about myself and you. I don’t ask you to accept them
now, any more than I did until they were proved to me. I ask only that you
give me an opportunity to present such proof, only that you accept these
amazing facts when they are proved in your own life, by your own greater
achievements, your own more glorious health, your own richer possessions,
and the happy and abundant life in all fields that this wav of life can bring.
These were the first astounding truths that were passed on to me by one
of the latest in that long chain of wise men. We have, w'ithin us, not merely
the mind and soul power of a thousand men, bilt the great wisdom and power
of Cod Himself—or the Creator, or the Supreme Intelligence, or whatever
name you wish to call Him. Of course, most religions recognize this—we
have no quarrel with any religious belief, but honor and respect all sincere
faiths. BUT THE STAGGERING REVELATION MADE TO ME BY MY
MASTER IN THE ORIENT WAS HOW TO USE THIS VAST POWER
IN OUR DAILY AFFAIRS, TO HELP BRING ABOUT OUR PLANS,
FULFILL OUR PRAYERS—ON EARTH, HERE AND NOW.
Immense Powers Never Before Realized
■ This mighty Niagara of Strength has been with us since time immemorial.
Three thousand years ago wise men had discovered it and learned methods
for using it. Why is it, you w'onder, that we have gotten so far away from it,
that we are blind to our own greatest heritage, that our scientists and
psychologists don’t know more about it and cannot instruct every man in
its use?
— 3 —
It is because they are afraid to acknowledge man’s kinship with the
Supreme Creator, because they try to explain things materialistically, instead
of spiritually, because they rely upon earthly knowledge and hesitate to accept
anything that cannot be understood in the light of that knowledge. But even
they stand in awe before some of their more recent discoveries, and are begin­
ning to perceive that the wise men of old were more nearly right than had
been supposed. Even they are probing into what they call the subconscious
and superconscious mind, and perceiving something of its immense powers.
Unbelievable Things Accomplished
■ Before long, perhaps, they will acknowledge that the wise men were correct,
and that this power is the wisdom of the Supreme Creator—God Himself in
each and every one of us. Before long, too, they may be able to explain why
the methods developed by these wise men are so tremendously effective in
utilizing that power within us. Right now, no one knows exactly why these
methods work. We only know that they do, and that in the East are men
who accomplish almost unbelievable things through them—things which our
materialistic scientists have never been able to duplicate. You no doubt have
read about the masters of the Far East and their wonderful powers.
The Easy Way of True Genius
■ Do you think a mere man wrote the best work of Shakespeare, or the
sublime music of Beethoven? About all either of them did, after learning to
get in touch with the Divine Source within them, was to listen to the poetry
or music of that INNER VOICE and write down what they heard. How can
scientists explain the Inner Voice of Mozart? Frequently, while composing,
if he dropped a sheet of music, he found it easier to write another than to pick
the first one up—so rapidly was his Inner Voice pouring forth the melodies
of Heaven.
That Inner Voice is in all of us. If you will but learn to listen to it, you
too can pour forth an avalanche of mighty words in your chosen field of
effort. But the more we rely upon materialistic knowledge, the deafer we
become to that Inner Voice. Like Adam and Eve, we are “banished from
Paradise” because we are filled with the fruit of the Tree of Materialistic
Science.
Make Your Own Heaven
■ But please understand me. Our scientific knowledge is not an evil in itself.
The fault lies with ourselves alone. We become blown up with conceit in this
new-found information, think we know it all, we rely upon material facts
alone for our guidance, when such knowledge is INCOMPLETE, and is not
likely to be complete for another ten thousand years.
This conceit, this reliance upon UNRIPE materialistic knowledge, has
become an almost universal habit with us. We have, most of us, forgotten
how to rely instead upon the Great Power within. We have forgotten how
to use this power, we no longer can hear the inner Voice, WHICH CAN
MAKE OUR HOMES HAPPY AS THE GARDEN OF EDEN, WHICH
CAN MAKE US VERITABLE GODS AMONG MEN—IRRESISTIBLE,
UNCONQUERABLE, VICTORIOUS IN ALL OUR ENDEAVORS, MAG­
NIFICENT IN OUR STRENGTH, SUBLIME IN OUR WISDOM.
Hidden Wisdom From a Land of Miracles
• But down through the ages, uncontaminated by our materialistic knowledge,
in a far country where such knowledge couldn’t reach, the ANCIENT WIS­
DOM has been kept alive. How thankful we may be that, sheltered behind
the highest mountains in the world, this sacred heritage has been preserved
for us—a higher understanding of the Creative Power within us, and the
methods wise men have discovered for making the most of that power in our
daily lives and our daily affairs?
The few travelers who have visited it call it the land of miracles—as indeed
it is—for men there can do things that cannot be seen anywhere else in the
world. Century after century, a carefully chosen group of wise men have
here passed on, from generation to generation, carefully guarded secrets that
were held too precious for the multitude, too potent to be permitted to fall
into the hands of the unworthy. I have witnessed many of their powers made
manifest, and I want to prove them to you.
Revealed Only To a Chosen Few
■ These wise men are the latest of a long, unbroken chain of wise men extend­
ing back certainly for three thousand years, a thousand years before the
Christian era, and no one knows how many thousand years before that. To
this day, these sages preserve the use of Sanskrit, the earliest known language,
from which some scholars believe most of the white men’s languages sprang.
Our great museums, various temples of the East, contain manuscripts in this
remote tongue, the wisdom carefully guarded in parable and poetry.
A Message From the Last Home of the Unknown
■ In the heart of ageless Asia, in the strange land of Tibet, the torch of this
wisdom still burns, carefully tended by a chosen few. Into this forbidden
place of mystery, this last home of the unknown, this “roof of the world” as
it is called, foreigners are not allowed to enter, except in rare cases and under
special conditions. It is still the least known country of the world, brooding
silently over the riddles of the ages, carefully guarding itself from the pollu­
tion of a materialistic age.
And here one of the latest of the age-old chain of wise men became my
teacher. My profession of geographer and map-maker brought me to the
country. Through a weird combination of circumstances, I was fortunate
enough to enter, and to sit as a student at the feet of this remarkable man.
What I learned iliere I wish to disclose to you, for I believe THE TIME HAS
COME FOR THE TRUTH TO SET MEN FREE.
Inconceivable Immensity of Mind
■ The effect of this knowledge upon a person is indescribable. No one could
without experience conceive of the power it gives, the immensity of mind, the
control over yourself and over others, the mastery and ability it provides in
all fields of endeavor.
Perhaps a certain experience of a friend of mine will give you a partial
idea. When a youth, my friend was fond of swimming. He had never swum
more than a half-mile in his life, however, when one day he decided to attempt
a five-mile swim. As he passed the first half-mile, he began to lose his wind.
Soon his heart started pounding, he was gasping for every breath, and his
face became a mask of agonized effort. Presently, when he thought he
simply had to give up, he suddenly drew a deep breath, then another and
another, and his troubles were ovpr. To him it seemed a miracle. He had
before realized what “second wind” was. He almost shouted for joy
—5—
in his new-found strength. He swam on and on, going ten limes as far as he
had ever gone before, and finished the five miles tired of muscle, but with
lungs breathing easily and quietly, seemingly ready for five more miles.
A Power That Can Take You Ten Times As Far
■ He had never known power was ivithin him. Yet every long distance
runner, every long distance swimmer, is familiar with the miracle of second
wind. In every long race, the participants are in agony, tempted to give up,
before it comes. My friend went through the same experience time after time,
after his first attempt. Always he went through the breathless stage, and
always the miracle came to solve his problem. He learned, as other long
distance athletes do, that “second wind” inevitably comes, that there is a vast
lung power in reserve that other people know nothing about, a power that
can take them TEN TIMES AS FAR as most people can go.
Mysteries No Man Can Explain
■ And so it is with you. There is a reserve of power within you that can take
you ten times as far as you ever thought you could go— in all your activities,
in all your efforts, in all your desires, and lead you into the PARADISE that
you have lost. You may be in agony right now, tempted to give up, your
problem may seem beyond your strength, but there is still a ten times greater
strength within you—if you but learn to use it.
Let me tell you what my master taught me of the methods of these wise
men. I cannot tell you exactly why they work. I only know that they do.
The wise men themselves cannot explain all the whys and wherefores. It
will probably be several thousand years before the explaining can be done.
But the using can be done right here and now, to give you a “second tvind”
with which you may soar to the very heavens of earthly accomplishment.
How absolute is the Justice of Life, which promises that we may use this
great power in whatsoever way we may! Through it we may gain greater
health, greater success in whatever enterprise we choose, greater happiness,
greater courage, sublime poise and peace—we may use it to become “perfect
as the Father in Heaven is perfect.” That promise was not made in vain.
Nor was the promise vain that “Heaven is within you,” for you are indeed
“God in human form.”
How joyful and thankful we should be that this God-given power is within
us! One of our wisest men, Beethoven, has proclaimed the great truth to
those who have “ears to hear.” In his Pastoral Symphony, Beethoven began
to write of the shepherd’s happiness that a storm is over. But the Supreme
Creator of All Inspiration took over the composer’s pen. That simple
shepherd’s melody became a mighty paean of joy, echoing from crag to crag,
swelling from mountain top to mountain top, with all the creatures of earth
swinging in a dance of rapture, and the stars of the heavens bursting forth
in song. An overwhelming tide of thankfulness sweeps over us, that God is
so good, the world so beautiful, and men so divine. All the storms of life are
gone, and at last we see the IMMENSITY of the DESTINY which is ours!
Such is the joy and gratitude which YOU should feel, and which you WILL
feel, WHEN THE REAL TRUTH ABOUT YOUR OWN GREAT POWERS
FINALLY DAWNS UPON YOU!
The Institute of Mentalphysics,
Los Angeles, California, U. S. A.
— 6
Start Using These Strange
Methods A t Once
Get Your Share Of Health,
Happiness, Power and Plenty
•
T
HE foregoing lecture by Mr. Edwin Dingle, we are sure, will
convince you that he is, indeed, an unusual man, one who can reveal
mysteries of life you have never before known, and help you in a way
that is astonishing. No matter what your position in life, no matter
what your problems, no matter how great your ambitions, you owe it to your­
self to make use of his wisdom that has been preserved for you through so
many ages.
What Mr. Dingle learned in the strange land of Tibet, and elsewhere in the
Orient, is revealed in the SCIENCE OF MENTALPHYSICS, the Victorious
Philosophy of Life. Through the secret use of the principles here disclosed,
you will find yourself rushing toward fulfillment of your desires, and accom­
plishment of your ambitions, with such electrifying power of mind and
strength of body that you can no longer be your former self, but a man or
woman REBORN into a glorious new life of ever-growing happiness and
success.
For the benefit of those who have special problems, or particular ambitions,
we shall here show in more detail what Mentalphysics means to you. Under
one of the headings which follow, you will no doubt find YOUR particular
ambition discussed. Be sure to look for it. Some of the problems may not be
your immediate concern; but you undoubtedly wish to know what amazing
results may be expected from this revolutionary disclosure. We, therefore,
recommend that you read ALL of the material which follows, even where the
problem is not at present yours.
Why Worry About Lack Of Money? . . . Get Your Share
Of Universal Supply
• • • “All these things shall be added unto you,” is an old promise
and a true one. Once the Kingdom of Power within is found, the daily needs
of life, and even its luxuries, automatically follow. When you learn the
principle of UNIVERSAL SUPPLY, as disclosed in Mentalphysics, you will
soon be on your way toward that Kingdom of Power and its AUTOMATIC
REWARDS of plenty and abundance.
Unsuspected Opportunities— Overlooked Resources
• People bring on their own lack, through unknowing or unconscious interference
with the law of Universal Supply. It is heart-breaking to see people, hard-working,
conscientious, intelligent, deprived through no fault of their own from enjoying
—7—
the plenty and happiness they deserve. And, though it happens every day, it is
ENTIRELY UNNECESSARY. Such people need only follow the principles of
Easy Plenty and Personal Mastery, which reveal unsuspected opportunities,
unforeseen sources of positions, unthought of plans for money-making, and
resources right at hand that have been overlooked.
You no doubt remember the story of the man who searched the world over
for a way to wealth—only to return home, an apparent failure, and find an acre
of diamonds on the old homestead. Thus it is with all of us. Right at hand are
resources undreamed-of, which we overlook.
Get Your Share of the Flow of Abundance
• Let Mentalphysics help you find those resources, which are ALWAYS there for
those who have eyes to see. Few people who have plenty of money and success
really know how it came about. They only THINK they know. Learn the real
principles underlying the flow of abundance, and it will come to you steadily and
automatically, instead of haphazardly and accidentally. The good things of life
are always at hand, always trying to find you, if you will but OPEN THE DOOR.
Your Acre of Diamonds is very likely right under your nose as you read this, but
you haven’t the EYE TO SEE. Let Mentalphysics tell you about the INNER EYE,
and enjoy the bright new world and the amazing possibilities it discloses to you.
That Ambition Of Yours—That Dream Of Success —Cast
It Aside—You Can Accomplish a Ten Times Greater Success
• • • To PROVE IT , WE SH A LL T E L L YOU T H E TRUE FACTS about an adver­
tising man of our acquaintance. He had a five-thousand-dollar-a-year job.
Just above him was a man making ten thousand dollars a year. The latter
had induced the advertising man to take the job by intimating he was about
ready to retire. The advertising man’s one great ambition was to get that
ten-thousand-dollar-a-year job. For almost two years he waited for the man
above him to step out. Then the great disappointment came. His superior
signed a contract for another year, when the advertising man felt that surely
his time had now come.
In a dudgeon of chagrin and anger, the advertising man resigned his position.
His house of cards had fallen down. His one ambition had collapsed. He went
through a lot of foolish agony about the matter—entirely needless—for, though
he didn’t know it, HIS AMBITION WAS TOO SMALL. Unknown to him, an
acre of diamonds was at hand.
Did Not Know What He Had
• Like many another advertising man, he had spent idle moments in what he
thought to be FANCIFUL pictures of business that might be tried some time in
the dim and distant future. He used to laugh at himself for this habit, and quote
the old song, “I’m forever blowing bubbles, pretty bubbles in the air.” Except
for amusement, these “bubbles” seemed to him to be entirely too fantastic.
Without the INNER EYE to see with, he didn't know what he had—just as you,
probably, don't know of the GREAT WEALTH that YOU can have.
Now, without a job, with twm years apparently w'asted, the advertising man
decided, in fear and trembling, to try one of his “bubbles.” Within two years he
had a fortune of one-quarter of a million dollars. His “bubble” turned out to be
an acre of diamonds that all along had been under his nose. Instead of making
ten thousand dollars a year—all he hoped for—he made TEN TIMES that much
and more. He learned that the way is made smooth, once you are headed in the
right direction, and that a man can SLIDE to success like a toboggan speeding
down hill through the snow.
His success was more or less a matter of accident—and if you wait for such
—8—
accidents you are likely to wait forever. But there is no need for YOU to depend
upon accident and circumstance. Instead of waiting for sheer luck, you can
acquire knowledge of the INNER EYE which helps you to SEE the acres of
diamonds around you.
For thousands of years wise men have been pondering the matter, and have
discovered methods and practices, little known in our Western world, that are
astonishingly effective in disclosing the great possibilities of fortune around you.
THEIR WISDOM IS YOURS—you have but to reach for it—and those “bubbles”
of yours may leave the air and COME DOWN TO EARTH, enabling you, too,
to SLIDE toward success. Much of that wisdom will be found in Mentalphysics.
Reach for it. Head yourself in the right direction, make the way smooth, and
SLIDE to fortune. Leave no stone unturned, when there is at hand A TEN
TIMES GREATER SUCCESS THAN YOU EVER HOPED FOR.
Why Successful Men Cannot Tell Yon How To Succeed —
What Is Wrong With Methods You Have Been Taught
• • • Like the advertising man whose story is given above, most of our
successful men head in the right direction through pure accident. Others
unknowingly and unconsciously follow the right principles part of the time,
and only THINK they know the reason for their success. That is why few of
them can really tell others how to succeed.
Oh, we know they get together in their chambers of commerce and their
millionaire clubs, pat themselves and each other on the back, and tell one another
what great fellows they are. We know that they try to tell us that it was superior
brains, or ability, or industry, that accounted for their success. But don’t let
them pull the wool over your eyes. Most of them haven’t any more brains and
ability than you have; many of them have far less education, and some of them
are downright lazy. You’ll find one who was given a PUSH by apparently hard
luck, like the advertising man, and practically STUMBLED upon his acre of
diamonds—another who was so lazy he wouldn't work for other people and HAD
to go into business for himself—still another who did the same thing because be
was NOT ABLE to earn a comfortable salary working for other people and
others who were practically FORCED into a fortunate investment by some high-
powered salesman. No wonder they cannot tell us the laws of success!
All this is contrary, perhaps, to the “go-getter” books and the “success
psychology” you have been reading. You will find much in Mentalphysics that
is ABSOLUTELY CONTRARY to Western ideas. The wise men of the East are
too keen, too penetrating in their thinking, to allow the wool to be pulled over
their eyes. They know that many successful people JUST HAPPENED to be
heading in the right direction at the right time.
But they know something more, they have gone far deeper, through thousands
of years they have found ways and means of FINDING, WITHOUT WAITING
FOR ACCIDENT. THE ACRE OF DIAMONDS AT THE HAND OF EVERY
MAN AND WOMAN.
The Easy and Calm Way to Success
• Our Western “go-getter” methods often bring on only nervous collapse,
physical and mental exhaustion, premature old age, and a thousand other ills,
without, in most cases, bringing any success whatever to the sufferer. The great
medical problem of today, in America, is the rapid increase of nervous ailments
ir. the nation. As never before, doctors are besieged with nervous wrecks,
complex-ridden people—and the population of medical institutions is growing
so rapidly as to alarm and amaze those who know the facts. This “strenuous
life” psychology is all wrong; the entire country has entered a blind alley.
WE are JUST IN TIME to save ourselves by turning to the wise men of the
East, who have developed methods for achieving success, and meeting our prob-
—9—
Jems, EASILY AND CALMLY, without such prodigious effort and nerve strain.
You. too, can use the easy and calm methods, when the truths of Mentalphysics
are disclosed to you.
Enjoy Glorious Health and Strength — Feel and Look
Younger — Delay for Years the Advance of Age
• • • It IS beginning TO BE RECOGNIZED, in the Western world, that THERE
IS SOMETHING WRONG WITH THE WAY WE THINK. Our writers and
our psychologists, some great religious and new thought movements, are
pointing out that many of our ills, our weaknesses, our failures, and our lack
of vitality, are due to MISUSE OF MIND POWER.
We are groping toward the truth at last. We have found that our minds have
TREMENDOUS INFLUENCE on our health, that within us is a STRENGTH
NEVER BEFORE REALIZED, which can accomplish apparent miracles in the
conquest of illness and the prolonging of life, in retaining youthful vigor and
handsomeness for many years longer, and even in rebuilding weakened and
invalid bodies.
Methods Average Person Can Use
• But it’s an old story to certain wise men of the East. And though we have
discovered methods that work in OCCASIONAL cases, only a few people find
themselves able to use them effectively. Yet these wise men have methods that
many members of the Institute of Mentalphysics consider far more effective, far
more certain, and FAR MORE EASILY USED BY THE AVERAGE MAN
OR WOMAN.
Wise men for many generations have CONCENTRATED upon the development
of mind power PRACTICALLY ALL THEIR LIVES. So it is not at all sur­
prising that they appear to know more about mind-power than we Occidentals
do. They started on the problem some thousands of years ago, preserving their
methods through the centuries, while we in the Western world are JUST BE­
GINNING to realize what mind-power can do.
Unbelievable Powers of Mind
• Travelers return from Tibet and other remote corners of the East with stories
of men living to incredible ages, retaining youthful strength for many years,
showing a mastery over other people, over their bodies and circumstances, that
is almost unbelievable. The highly intelligent leaders of these experts in mind-
power do not stoop to vulgar display. But occasionally some hermit who has
learned some of their secrets will perform amazing feats that cannot be duplicated
anywhere else in the world. Visitors to these far lands tell of men walking on
red hot coals, or of a man sitting for hours naked on the ice in bitter cold weather,
comfortable where another man would freeze to death, and even melting the snow
around him for five or six feet with the bodily heat he seems to control with his
mind alone. These, perhaps, are mere demonstrations to prove their powers to
the populace, or exercises to maintain the control of Mind over the body. But
the real wise men are men of balance and keen penetration, and use this power
in far more worthy purposes—as you and any pther sensible person would do.
If you wish to learn more of the apparent miracles accomplished by men of
the East, you need only go to your public library—in book after book, especially
in books about Tibet, examples of remarkable feats of mind-power are given—-
witnessed and authenticated by well-known people.
Mind Makes People Sick or VPell
• You have no doubt heard of many of these cases, you have no doubt been
reading of the recent discoveries of the subconscious and superconscious mind in
every one of us. You can no longer question, therefore, that mind has a tre­
mendous control over our bodies, that it can make us sick or well, can shorten
— 10—
our lives or lengthen them, can cure us or kill us, make us strong, vigorous,
handsome or make us the reverse.
But. like many another, you have perhaps tried our crude and hastily-formu­
lated Western methods and find that they do not work, at least in your case. And
little wonder!
Be the Person You Can Be
• But there ARE methods that can work, and which WILL work. Let Mr. Dingle
disclose to you what he has learned from his wise teacher in Tibet, and then apply
his methods to YOUR health problems—to quote only ONE avenue through
which you can bring benefits to yourself. See for yourself WHAT AMAZING
CHANGES CAN BE BROUGHT ABOUT. Even if you THINK you are in good
health, learn how much MORE VITALLY ALIVE, how much STRONGER, how
much more immune to disease, how much more YOUTHFUL in body, spirit and
appearance you CAN be.
If we were to put in print the changes that hundreds of Mentalphysics followers
have testified have taken place in their physical bodies alone, the story would be
so striking that it would be regarded as incredible.
Fear - Timidity - Inferiority Complex - Unsocial Habits -
Worry Onicbly Mastered
• • • Everyone knows that the relief of these handicaps lies in the
MIND ALONE. And none know it better than those who suffer from them.
Yet, knowing that in their minds resides a power for overcoming these habits,
the sincere and earnest sufferers find' themselves unable to reach that power.
Practically all have tried the usual formulae—telling themselves that they must
have confidence, faith, hopefulness, self-esteem, and so on. But they find this
easier said than done. And no wonder!
Doing all this is not as easy as some of our psychologists would have us believe,
nor is it as complicated as others would intimate. By Western methods, of course,
it is extremely difficult in most cases, because the problem is approached from
the wrong viewpoint. Often the methods only aggravate the difficulty by centering
the thoughts too much upon it.
That old quotation “As a man thinketh, so is he” is relied upon too much in
our Western world. It is not so much how a man thinks, but how he FEELS.
Thinking confidence is far different from FEELING it. Thinking hopefulness and
happiness is not alone able to make you feel that way.
We can, when we think of it, control our thoughts, but controlling our feelings,
moods and emotions, is a different matter. And it is our FEELINGS that are at
the bottom of fear, inferiority complexes, worry and other mental difficulties.
Long before we in the West realized the vast power hidden within us, wise men
of the East perceived it, and discovered ways of reaching that power through the
feelings as well as through the thoughts. They aim to control the powerful moods
that make or break one. the underlying cause behind success and failure.
Mentalphysics has adopted their astoundingly effective methods, and through
comparatively simple practices, inspires FEELINGS of confidence, happiness,
superiority, faith, energy and ambition. Thus, through simple control of your
moods and emotions, you BECOME self-reliant, courageous, joyful, VICTORIOUS
in thought, feeling and manner, and EQUALLY victorious in your endeavors.
Feelings of fear, worry, inferiority, and so on, are crowded out.
Mure Friends — Better Friends — Greater Influence T-er
Others — Success in* Ynnr Snceal Life
• • • As ONE happy MAN OR W
OMAN after another has proved, nothing can
stand before the person who FEELS his great destiny. In Mentalphysics you
learn that WITHIN YOU, ready to be used, is a divine power—hidden, little
— 11—
used, tremendously powerful and awaiting your command . . . an UNCON­
QUERABLE POWER, and when you feel that, the world and all that’s in it
are yours for the taking—you really BECOME the splendid, admirable,
divinely capable and powerful person you OUGHT to be.
The world stands ready to pay homage to such a magnetic personality, to
give its choicest gifts of friendship and influence. People eagerly help such a
person, are flattered by his or her notice, and follow such leadership. And that is
the kind of person YOU can be—the power is within you as much as in anyone
else—all you need to do is to keep in touch with it. In Mentalphysics you will
find methods that are unusually effective for getting in touch with that power—
methods worked out through thousands of years by generation after generation of
Wise men, methods found remarkably effective by many of our members.
Poise, Charm, Personal Magnetism
• Poise and charm, magnetism and character, are the natural attributes of one
who finally comes to know the real power within him. To such a one, these world-
conquering attributes come without effort, without strain, EASILY and NATUR­
ALLY. They become the HABIT OF LIVING. All the good things of life pout
themselves upon such a person.
The woman thus endowed finds herself popular, invited everywhere, asked to
be leader in various social activities, with a choice of friendships that makes her
life a rarely pleasant adventure indeed. She finds her husband a grateful and
devoted helpmate, her children worshipful, and her home a haven of loyalty and
devotion—all through the influence of her own gracious presence.
Friends to Help at Every Turn
• The man thus endowed finds opportunity coming his way, with employers
clamoring for his services. He is able to help his children in the right paths, the
way is made easy for the carrying out of his plans, and friends are ready to help
him at every turn.
With such rewards in sight, every man and woman should find as quickly as
possible the real POWER WITHIN. Let Mentalphysics guide you toward such a
goal, as thousands of others have done, and seize from life the great rewards in
store for you.
Greater Mental Powers — Greater development of Your
Talents — Greater Knowledge
• • • I n the West, we do not appreciate sufficiently that mental power,
talent, ability, and wisdom are largely a matter of INSPIRATION. We depend
too much upon arduous acquisition of detail. Our colleges turn out young men
by the thousands who have quite a grasp of detailed information on various
subjects, but who lack inspiration, who do not seem able to use their knowl­
edge to good advantage, who are not given the RIGHT THOUGHT AT THE
RIGHT TIME.
• Nothing of value, permanently, has ever been accomplished without INSPIRA­
TION. The permanently successful man or woman, in all fields, is the one upon
whose mind FLASHES the right IDEA when needed. Ability is chiefly a matter
of the frequency and dependability of such flashes of intuition. They break out
of the subconscious mind into the conscious mind—no one knows exactly how—to
blossom forth into great works of writing, of music, of finance, invention, art in
its various forms. In other spheres, these flashes of inspiration lead to quick
decision, originality, unerring judgment, the ability to penetrate to the heart of a
situation and thus master it, ideas for improved methods in office, farm, shop and
factory. The right words come to the lawyer, the right diagnosis to the physician,
the right approach to the salesman, and the right manner to the man looking for
a job.
Without such inspiration, no one can get very far. Yet, where are we taught
methods for inviting such inspiration? It is usually left altogether to luck and
chance.
Inspiration Multiplies Your Talents
• In Mentalphysics you ARE taught such methods—practices which have been
found very effective throughout hundreds of years of careful experimentation by
keen minds. Inspiration comes from the Supreme Intelligence within. It is not a
matter of reason, or of mere education. It is a matter of getting in touch with that
vast mind within you that is many, many times more powerful than your conscious
mind. That subconscious mind is ready to do your bidding, when you learn how
to command it, to bring forth great works, original ideas, the right thought at the
right time—so that your words are apt, your thoughts timely, your ideas inspired,
and your actions successful.
No matter what your talents, no matter what your ambition, you should learn
the way to call upon that SOURCE OF ALL INSPIRATION within you. Thus
you may become a brilliant conversationalist, a moving public speaker; thus your
letter-writing may accomplish its purpose, your daily work stand above the ordi­
nary, your greatest ambition in all fields realized. What have you done to get in
touch with the Source of all inspiration—the Divine Power within you? The
supreme purpose of Mentalphysics is to do this for you. Call upon its powerful
aid in this high endeavor.
Mentalphysics Offered At Minimum Cast
• • • Thouch the benefits to be expected from Mentalphysics should
be worth hundreds, even thousands of dollars, we ask Initiates only for suffi­
cient donations to carry on the work. There is necessarily expense incurred in
record keeping, in preparing and issuing the messages, preparation of printed
and photographic material. This and the constant enlargement of our efforts
require a small minimum donation from each Initiate. The required donation,
to be sent with the Application Form, is $5.00. This is sent to us-before study
can begin. Thereafter, the required monthly contribution is $2.00.
• By continuing this monthly contribution, you have the right of advancing in the
Great Revelation 'as far as you desire to So long as you remain a member,
messages will be mailed to you every fifteen days. Many find the messages so in­
spiring and helpful that they NEVER want them stopped, but the very first mes­
sages that you receive should show you that you are well on your way, and not
long thereafter you should begin to perceive ACTUAL RESULTS. We urge all
students, however, to complete the entire twenty-six-week Initiate Course, in fair­
ness to themselves and their own wondrous powers.
How the Great Messages Cnme to You — Dur Method of
Presenting the Science of Mentalphysics
• • • Every thinking man and woman, young or old, is consciously or
unconsciously seeking what Mentalphysics teaches.
When you enter as a member of the Institute of Mentalphysics, this is your
official procedure. During the whole of your progress, you are in direct
touch with your Guide, Edwin J. Dingle, our Preceptor and President of this
Institute. You are dealing with a human, helpful and considerate man, who
has made your troubles and your purposes the study of many years.
— 1 3 —
You Receive Upon Acceptance
1. First Week’s Message—“Guidance for the Initiate”—a manuscript of great
usefulness and profound interest.
2. Second Week’s Message—“Entering the Gate”—a manuscript unfolding
your tremendous possibilities.
3. Photographic Material—illustrating practices for you to make use of imme­
diately in forwarding your purposes.
4. Printed Matter—explaining some of the principles, so far as we can know
them today, behind the strange methods.
5. The Method Itself—the first revelation, which you can apply at once, and
see the effect for yourself.
NOTE: The methods and practices, effective as they are, can be used by anyone
of ordinary intelligence. The principles, however, are given for those keen minds
who delight in scientific and philosophical inquiry. Enough is given in the first
installment alone to give to such people a month’s rare adventure into little known
but astonishing mysteries of life. Many of them are today unexplainable, and may
not be explained until science has advanced a thousand years or more. We only
know that they work—how and why must be left, in a great measure, for future
ages to discover.
You Receive Each Month Thereafter—
• Four weekly messages and photographic material. Methods for special pur­
poses. Practices designed to mould your life, in all aspects, into the beautiful and
triumphant pattern in which it can be moulded.
After 26 Weeks
• Complete review of your progress, with full examination at no extra cost to you.
Then, if examination is satisfactory, you are given a Diploma signed by the Pre­
ceptor Emeritus, testifying that you have successfully passed the examination.
No Interference W ith Your Religion
• Mentalphysics is not designed to take the place of your religion. Most religions
of today will find in Mentalphysics nothing to conflict with their teachings. Most
religions teach that there is a spark of the Divine in every human being. Mental­
physics merely helps you to realize this more clearly, and to use that Supreme
Intelligence within in a practical way. It should help to give you more faith than
ever in a worthy religion. Those not belonging to any regular faith should find in
Mentalphysics the Victorious Philosophy of Life, a beautiful conception of man's
place in the Universe, as practical and useful as it is beautiful.
Health By the Modern Way
• The purpose of Mentalphysics is to use ALL the gifts of a generous Creator, no
matter what their origin. Just as Mentalphysics need not interfere with your re­
ligion, it need not oppose your ideas of medical science, or anything whatever that
has a foundation in the good of humanity. Mentalphysics honors the inspiration
of modern medical science equally as the heritage of wisdom from the Wise Men
... it bows in reverence before the genius of Lister, Harvey, Pasteur and our great
modern physicians. They were and are inspired by the same Universal Mind
which is the origin of all great work in any field of human endeavor. But many
people, when they utilize the physician’s services, deny him the help that they
alone can give, and the help of THE GREATEST HEALER OF ALL within us.
This help can come through YOU ALONE. Every forward-looking and broad­
minded physician will admit that without it he is often helpless, and that with it
the apparently impossible can be done. What is it? It is the divine spark of
Creative Intelligence that is in all of us, and which can be used to break down
habits of thought and mood which oppose the vast healing power of your subcon-
— 1 4 —
scious mind. Why not, by practicing; the principles of Mentalphysics, add to your
own efforts the SUPREMELY POWERFUL AID of the all-conquering Creator
within you?
Begin Today to Live the Life
You Ought to Live
• Can you see yourself radiantly full of life, successful, happy—with plenty of
this world’s goods and property, USING what you have? Can you see yourself a
leader in your chosen field of endeavor? Can you see yourself engaged in work
that you like—many friends about you—people looking up to you, and YOU
making them happy by helping them? Can you see yourself, day after day, year
after year, doing what you want to do IN THE WAY YOU WANT TO DO IT?
You can—and MUST—if you are to be the person you CAN be. Let Mentalphysics
show you what a powerful aid it is in making you JUST THE PERSON YOU
HAVE ALWAYS WANTED TO BE. Be honest with yourself. Answer frankly
the questions below which may apply to you.
• WHY BE SUBJECT ANY LONGER TO PARALYZ­
ING FEARS, OR INFERIORITY FEELINGS?
• WHY BE THE SLAVE OF MOODS, WHEN YOU
CAN BE THEIR MASTER?
• WHY TAKE A BACK SEAT ANYWHERE, AT
ANY TIME?
• WHY LET OTHERS, WITH NO MORE REAL
BRAINS THAN YOU HAVE, GET AHEAD OF
YOU IN ANY RESPECT WHATSOEVER?
• WHY LET YOUR NEIGHBORS HAVE GOOD
THINGS OF LIFE, WHILE YOU DO WITHOUT?
• WHY LET DISCORD AND LACK OF HARMONY
RAISE THEIR HEADS IN OUR HOME?
• WHY DENY YOUR LOVED ONES THE COM­
FORT AND LITTLE LUXURIES THEY DESERVE?
• WHY DENY THEM THE GREATER INFLUENCE
AND HELP WHICH YOU CAN GIVE THEM,
ONCE YOU KNOW YOUR OWN POWERS?
• WHY TAKE LIFE THE HARD WAY, WHEN AN
EASY WAY IS AT HAND?
• WHY LET ANYONE HAVE A FALSE IMPRES­
SION OF THE INTELLIGENT AND WONDERFUL
PERSON YOU R*\U Y ARE?
• WHY NOT SURROUND YOURSELF WITH DE­
VOTED AND LOYAL FRIENDS, WITH YOU
PROUD OF THEM AND PROUD OF YOU?
• WHY NOT LIVE A LIFE OF RARE BEAUTY,
OF GLORIOUS ACCOMPLISHMENTS, OF RICH
REWARD,, AND SUPER-ABUNDANT VITALITY?
There is only one answer. You WILL correct these things. You WILL
take advantage of the ways and means the Wise Men have discovered for
bringing about what they desire. You WILL send for the first great messages
of Mentalphysics in which long-hidden methods are disclosed to you.
The time to do it is today—NOW. OBEY THAT INSPIRATION. Fill
out the enclosed Application Form, and let your progress toward your pur­
poses begin AT ONCE.
Personal Service
• • • E dw in J. D tngt.e or his Staff are ever at the service of students to
assist them by personal letters in their practice of the principles of Mental-
physics. Counsel is the result of vast experience with students throughout
the world as well as personal observation and consultation arising out of
personally conducted classes in Los Angeles.
. Start Now—Mail the Application Form
• • • Enclose with it $5.00, and all the material which an Initiate receives
upon enrollment will be on its way to you. Your GREAT ADVENTURE
into the mystic powers of your own mind will have begun. The fruition of
your purposes, the achievement of your ambitions, the relief of your handi­
caps and worries, will be no longer a dream of the'future, but things which
can soon be achieved by that power within you. Time passes swiftly,
tomorrow sometimes never comes, today will soon be in the irretrievable past.
Make use of today, let it be the TURNING POINT in your life, when you
start FULL SPEED AHEAD toward the splendid man or woman you CAN
BE and ARE. Let not another minute pass, when everything good in life is
trying to FIND you.
SECOND AND HOBART BLVD.
LOS ANGELES, CALIF., U. S. A.
The Science oj Mentalphysics is the Inner Teaching
oj The International Church oj The Holy Trinity.
“ If we work upon marble, it will perish; if on brass, time
will efface it; if we rear temples, they will crumble into
dust, but if we work upon immortal minds and imbue
them with the principles, with the just fear of God and
love of our fellow men, we engrave on those tablets some­
thing that will brighten to all eternity.”—W EB ST ER .
— 16—
3* *■* ^ ft J3
**
ft •?*.* 2
a. * p *
^5 E: t
o to
i S j f t c
to to <» 5
2 ; ! l o ~
S> E O'
8. n.
2 5 t
o to
n 3 . cu
^ ^ O
3T
O
*
f 3 ° 0 «
S ^ 3 s . ^
SO 50 3 O
3:3 8-^g
. . . f t a * * .
a ft ^ a 0
3 3 T
Og to_
§J?r- S; to
s i i - i 2*
»
-
♦. P c
q a
Q
J S .O f! ?
J > * ft
l ^ ! i
O r~««
. <
ft
ft
(A
ft)
tA
T
O
* O T
O
* £
1
,1^ S . |* o
g '§ ; ^ ' 9
O * S'*
T
O
'T S 'I 3
?*ft. o
3
ft
(A
(A
ft)
3
CL
O «• to 8
“t
o
, to S* 3*
T
O T
O
T
OT
Oc
_ a- t
oa a
S t
o« a §
SiT O ^'cS-
~ 1
,
1 T
o _ T
O
"as to 3 o-Q-
3 3 t
o
. 2. t
o
^"O T
O
* S'
3>T3
3-
-=£SS
3* ft
ft) ^
?r*r
^
»
ro
r*- **■*• c*
0 3-2
Cp3. g5o 'S '
ft) c *
•t
o
-* 23 C
3 3 ~ S
3
. 3
*
1
/1 S' T
O~.
"D t
o a **1
3* <
T
OT
O
TO to TOTOfl
o a 5
q 2
f .s ? ft
Note on Edwin J . Dingle, F.R.G.S.
Author of: Across China on Foot; China’s Revolution 1911-1912; Breathing Your
Way to Youth; Your Mind and Its Mysteries; How to Meditate, and
Other contributions to the Higher Philosophy of Life and the Science of
Living.
Editor of: Dingle’s New Atlas and Commercial Gazeteer of China; Bi-lingual Map
of China; Far Eastern Products Manual; China and Far East Finance and
Commerce; F. & C. Year Book, and Other Standard Economic Publications.
E D W I N JO H N D I N G L E , F e llo w of the R o y a l G e o g ra p h ic a l S o c ie ty of
G re a t B ritain , an d oth er k in dred in tern ation al so cieties, w a s born in E n g lan d ;
train ed a s w riter an d g e o g rap h er; an o rp h an at nine.
• L e a v in g E n g la n d , fo llo w ed h is p ro fe ssio n in S tra its Settlem en ts an d lived
in A s ia — C h in a, In d ia an d T ib e t— fo r 21 y e a rs; trav eled w id ely in E a s t
In d ies stu d y in g p h ilo so p h y an d religion ; w alk ed clear a c r o ss C h in a to
B u rm a, retu rn ed to in terior, m et w ith m an y accid en ts an d illn e sses, liv ed
in O rie n tal tem p les, fo r m an y m onths in a T ib e ta n m o n astery w h ere he
rece iv ed g u id an ce in th e p ractic es o f A n cien t T ib e t (h is tem ple life is the
m ost u n b e liev ab ly fasc in a tin g sto ry o f a w h ite m an ’s life in th at in scru tab le
lan d o f p h ilo so p h y , an d is d iv u lge d o n ly to h is a d v an c e d stu d e n ts); trav eled ,
stu d ied , p ractic ed h is p ro fe ssio n , a lw a y s p rep arin g h im self fo r final life
w o rk ; au th o rity o n O rie n tal econ om ics an d p h ilo so p h y .
• H a s to h is cred it an en v iab le reco rd o f ach ievem en t in the field o f g eo ­
g ra p h ic a l ex p lo ratio n .
• W h ile in h is T ib e ta n m o n astery , our b e lo v ed P recep to r w a s selected to
h a v e d isclo sed to him an d w a s sy ste m a tic a lly tau gh t m eth od s clo sely
g u ard e d fo r m an y cen tu ries in T ib e t, an d b y th eir u se resto red h is p h y sical,
m ental an d sp iritu al b o d y from alm o st u tter extin ctio n to p erfectio n . T o d a y
h e is a rem ark ab le liv in g m onum ent to h is ph enom enal teach in g s, so th at,
lo n g p a st the m ark o f m iddle life, h is b o d y sta n d s a s a sp len d id p h y sical
an d sp iritu al instrum ent. H is m aste ry o f th ese little know n fun d am en tal
O rie n tal la w s, w hich he h a s a d a p te d to the tem po o f the m odern m ind, is so
co m p lete th at he p o sse sse s the inim itable fa c u lty o f u n co v erin g to y o u the
m eth od b y w hich he h im self d em o n strates th at w hich he teach es. He liv ed
p ra c tic a lly in retreat from 1922 to 1927, then fou n ded the Scien ce of
M e n talp h y sics— a p ra c tic a l, W estern -u n d ersto o d , p h ilo so p h ical, in sp ira­
tio n al an d sp iritu al teach in g, d eclared to be the G re ate st T e a c h in g A c ce ssib le
to M a n , an d the g re at W o r ld M ov em en t o f T o m o rro w — a v a ila b le o n ly
th rou gh the In stitute of M e n talp h y sics.
• If e v e r in th is life y o u w ill m eet a T e a c h e r w h o se w h ole life is d ev o ted
to h u m an ity th rough h is ev er-in creasin g circle o f fo llo w ers, it w ill be in
E d w in Jo h n D in gle, b e lo v ed o f all w ho k n o w him . T h e re is nothin g in the
W e ste rn w o rld th at b egin s to co m p are w ith h is tru e Inner T e ach in g .
• M u ch m ore co u ld b e w ritten ab o u t the h ead o f th is in stitution, but, a s
he h im self sa y s , "w o rd s are the le a fa g e — th e fru it o f the tree is in the
d eed s o f life.”
