{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__curtiss___vitamins.pdf","mytitle":"Vitamins","mylang":"de"}
VITAMINS
Their
ORIGIN
SOURCES
and SPECIFIC USES
A Supplement to his well-known book
"Health Hints"
By
F. HOMER CURTISS, BS., M.D.
The specific effect of each vitamin is
fully described in non-technical lan-
guage, and the sources from which it
can easily and inexpensively be obtained
are listed.
An invaluable aid for all who are suf-
fering from any bodily, nervous or
mental ailment.
PRICE
500
TilE CIJRTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK Co.
818 QUEDEC {T-!cW. W8li!NOTON, De-
Being the 20th volume of "The Curtiss Books"
NEW ADDRrSS
P.O. BOX 36, SANTA BARBARA, CLIF.
Copyright 1937, by
Tu UNIvsAL RELIGIOUS FOUNDATION, INC.
All rights reserved
LONDON AGENTS
L N. FOWLER & Co.
7 Imperial Arcade, Ludgate Circus,
LoNDON, E. C. 4.
Printed in the United Stoics of America
VITAMINS
PART I. GENERAL CoNsIDTIoNs
In the first edition of our recent volume, Health
Hints, we stated that all diseases have acidosis and
toxemia as a basic condition, due largely to wrong
combinations of food and faulty elimination.
Nevertheless, many disorders are specifically due to
a deficiency in certain vitamins and mineral salts.
While the wide range of diet recommended in our
book, especially the use of all the raw and live foods
possible, will ordinarily supply all the vitamins and
cell-salts needed, nevertheless a general knowledge
of the specific effects of the vitamins and the
sources from which they can easily be obtained, will
help you so to arrange your diet as to obtain the
extra amounts needed to supply the evident de-
ficiencies, and thus more quickly overcome their
unhappy results. Hence we will give a brief and
simplified resumé of this complicated subject.
Vitamins are important food substances which
are not only essential for the growth, vigor and
continued health of the body, and the normal regula-
tion of its glands and other functions, but also for
protection of the body from disease. For certain
1
2 HEALTH HINTS
vitamins give specific protection, such as the anti-
scurvy, anti-rachitic and anti-infective vitamins etc.
Therefore the diet should always contain such pro-
tective foods as raw vegetables and fruits, egg-
yolks, milk etc. to provide safeguards to the health
not found in sufficient quantities in other foods.
Many research authorities now believe that most
maladies formerly attributed to toxines, as well as
to the improper functioning of the endocrine glands,
are primarily due to vitamin and mineral-salt starva-
tion. The lowered organic functioning thus in-
duced permits the accumulation of toxines and acids
and lowers the body's normal resistance to bacterial
infections.
While the vitamins are not the materials used in
building tissues and producing energy, they do fur-
nish the material from which the endocrine glands
produce their specific secretions, upon which all the
physiological functions of the body depend. With-
out them the food is not properly elaborated or
assimilated, and hence toxic waste is produced which
must be eliminated with a great drain on the vitality.
Vitamins may be considered as the vital essence
or soul of the food, as contrasted with the building
materials. Since vitamins are formed by the vital
life-processes of Nature, artificial or synthetic vita-
mins are not advocated. For while they may contain
the same percentages of chemical constituents they
VITAMINS 3
do not contain the "vita" element which is imparted
only by the life-currents of Nature. Radionic ex-
amination of the wave-length and effects of certain
synthetic vitamins shows them to be distinctly de-
pressing to the vitality-index and heart action, and
in some cases to be actually poisonous.
Single vitamins can now be obtained at drug
and food stores, but some of these concentrations
are so powerful that their indiscriminate use may
cause grave endocrine unbalance. For instance,
excessive use of vitamin D, now so much exploited
in the advertisements of irradiated foods, can cause
grave kidney disorders. Severe and persisting dam-
age can be done to the lungs, kidneys and large
blood vessels by repeated large doses of viosterol.
To give concentrated doses of such potent materials
without expert advice is nothing less than reckless
experimentation. On the other hand, a vitamin A
deficiency can induce susceptibility to infection of
the heart valves; deficiency of B can weaken its
nervous control and cause muscular weakness, while
deficiency in vitamin C can cause shortness of
breath, palpitation and rapid respiration. Therefore,
unless you can have expert advice, it is far safer to
supply the needed vitamins through regulation of
the foods naturally containing them in abundance,
as listed herein.
The need for different vitamins varies with each
4 HEALTH HINTS
individual Since the vitamins act co-operatively,
deficiency diseases are usually due to a lack of several.
Therefore it is best to supply an abundance of all
and let Nature make her own selection.
The hormones elaborated by the endocrine glands
are now believed to be formed by the splitting of
the vitamin molecule. And it is far more difficult
to supply the many hormones formed by the dif-
ferent glands than to supply the few vitamins from
which they are made. As one authority says:
"Supply the vitamins and Nature will supply the
hormones."
So far seven vitamins have been isolated.1 They
are named A, B, C, D, E, F and G. Those soluble
in fat are A, D, E and F. They are found chiefly
in the protective foods such as vegetables, fruits,
milk, fish-oil and nuts rich in fat. Vitamins B,
C and G are soluble in water and are found largely
in foods rich in water, especially in fruits.
Most meats contain relatively small amounts of
vitalni7ls, and those are largely destroyed by the
high temperature (35O°. to 4500) necessary for
cooldng. In general, steaming is less apt to destroy
the vitamins than other forms of cooking, as most of
them survive temperatures up to 194°, but the
shorter the cooking and the less water used the
better. Vitamins D, E and G are not destroyed
1Several of these have been split up and others are being discovered,
but these are the cues anJ meet the general needs.
VITAMINS 5
at ordinary cooking temperatures. Pasteurization
of milk destroys vitamin C, while irradiation with
ultra-violet light to increase the amount of vitamin
D kills vitamin C, so vitamin D is the only one left
in pasturized milk.
As a rule there is less destruction of vitamins in
foods cooked at high temperatures for a short
time than cooked at low temperatures for a long
time. Also the less water used the less vitamins are
dissolved out and lost if the water is thrown out.
If much water is used it should be saved and used
in gravies, sauces or as a vegetable drink. A num-
ber of attractive different colored drinks can thus
be made from spinach, carrots, beets, peas etc.
Altho most foods contain more than one vitamin,
the foods listed herein are chosen because they con-
tain the largest amount of the vitamins under which
they are listed. Thus, while nearly all salad greens
are especially rich in vitamin A, they also contain
fair to good amounts of B, C and G.
Food stuffs that do not contain vitamins may
be regarded as dead foods, as they contain no build-
ing materials such as mineral salts, proteins, etc.
Such foods supply fuel and temporary energy only.
They indude all white flour and all the many prod-
ucts made from it. It is not only de-vitaminized
and dc-mineralized but it is also bleached. And the
bleaching necessary to keep white flour from spoil-
6 HEALTH HINTS
ing leaves certain nitrates in it whose cumulative
effects are poisonous. Test animals die from mineral
and vitamin starvation in 3 or 4 weeks when fed
on white flour products alone, while maintaining
their health indefinitely on whole wheat products.
Most manufactured starches, highly refined
cereals, polished rice, farina, pearl barley etc., be-
long to this dead food class. They do not furnish
proper food even for insects or germs, hence they
can be handled commercially when stale without loss
from "spoiling." All cereals products and bread-
stuffs should be made from the whole grain only.
In arterio-sclerosis whole wheat and brown rice
are of decided value, owing to their large phosphate
or phytin content.
The dead foods also include refined or white
sugar, candy, corn syrup and all their products.
Their use temporarily satisfies hunger without sup-
plying the necessary nutriment for growth. Their
use causes the user to refuse the body-building foods
vitally needed. Children fed on such foods are
usually disobedient and unruly. Instead of being
punished, such children should be put on a diet con-
taining the correct vitamins. The natural craving
for sweets can easily and safely be satisfied by such
live and natural sweets as raisins, dates, figs, honey,
sugar-cane, maple sugar or syrup or raw, unre-
fined brown sugar and their products. Raisins are
VITAMINS 7
also said to satisfy the craving for cigarettes and
liquor. Reach for a raisin instead of for a cigarette.
All edible green leaveslettuce, spinach, turnip
and beet tops, celery etc.are the only foods that
contain an excess of mineral salts and vitamins A
and C. Hence they should be used daily, although
their mineral content depends upon the amount of
minerals in the soil in which they are grown, hence
varies greatly.
Vegetable juices, obtained by using an extractor
or mine, are more valuable than fruit juices as
sources of both minerals and vitamins, although
citrus fruit juice is a good source of vitamin C.
Fresh meats, fowl and fish are good sources of the
growth-promoting vitamins A and G, but cold
storage meats, according to the U. S. Bureau of
Agriculture Bulletins, are valueless for this purpose.
Warning! While the proper use of vitamins as
described herein will supply the deficiencies indicated,
their use clone cannot be expected to restore one to
perfect health unless the proper combinations of
foods are observed, and unless acidosis and toxemia
are avoided and eliminated. Directions for the
many other physical and mental conditions neces-
sary for the maintenance of perfect health are fully
described in our Health Hints.
PART II. VITAMIN SouRcEs AND EFFEcTS
Vitamin A. The Anti-infective Vitamin
Vitamin A stimulates growth, but is necessary at
all ages. Its deficiency results in loss of appetite,
weakness, retarded growth, and' especially favors
lowered resistance to infections or "colds" of the
mucous membranes, such as in the eyes, ears, nose,
sinuses, glands of the mouth and throat, the gastro-
intestinal tract, and sometimes the kidney (nephritis)
and bladder (cystitis).
Its deficiency also causes gall-stones and gravel or
sand in the kidney and bladder, secondary anemia,
psoriasis, and favors dropsy from kidney trouble.
Such cases, as well as cystitis and albuminuria in
the urine without adequate cause in children, are
successfully treated by its administration. Although
the dissolving of kidney stones is a slow process,
the administration of vitamin A promptly allays
the irritation. Mottled, ruddy complexion, also
"whiskey nose" dear up in a few days by the use
of vitamin A.
Its use alone in an infectious attack is not suf-
ficient to check it because vitamin B is also needed
to promote toxic elimination, vitamin C to promote
9
10 HEALTH HINTS
white-cell activity, and vitamin D to maintain the
blood-calcium balance.
Spinach contains all the vitamins save F. The
other salad greens are rich in A, B and C.
Vitamin A helps constipation by its stimulating
action on the liver. It is the distributor of potas-
sium to the nervous tissues. Its absence results
in sterility.
The earliest symptoms of its deficiency are in the
intestinal tract.
It is soluble in fat, but only slightly soluble in
water. -
It is little affected by ordinary boiling or baking,
but is destroyed by frying.
It is found in most concentrated amounts in all
green leaves commonly used for salads, all green
and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots,
yellow or green squash, yellow corn, sweet potatoes,
green beans and peas, asparagus, okra, tomatoes,
avacadoes, cantaloupes, apricots, bananas, cherries,
peaches, prunes, mangoes, olives and dates. Whole
raw milk, cream, butter, nearly all fats, cheese, egg-
yolks, fish-oils, liver and roe, red salmon and oysters
are also important sources of Vitamin A.
Vitamin B. The Ani-neuritic and Heart Vitamin
Vitamin B is necessary for the normal tone of the
unstriped muscles of the digestive tract and the
blood vessels. Hence its deficiency causes loss of
appetite, enlarged, flabby colon, constipation, venous
dilation causing vericose veins, hemorrhoids and
flabby heart action.
Its absolute lack causes nervous irritibility, and
the nerve degeneration of Beriberi.
It is important during pregnancy and improves
the quantity and quality of the milk in nursing
mothers, and supplies the baby with its needed
amount of this vitamin. The albuminuria of preg-
nancy is due to the deficiency of A and C in the
kidneys.
Vitamin B is a natural physiological stimulant
and is necessary for the absorption of starches and
sweets, and for the nourishment and normal ac-
tivity of the nervous system. Hence it protects the
body from certain nerve and brain diseases.
It is therefore indicated in Beriberi, neuritis,
neurasthenia, hyper-thyroidism, toxic goiter, also
weak stomach and bowel action by stimulating
peristalsis. It is also necessary for the formation
of insulin in diabetes.
11
12 HEALTH HINTS
Owing to its tonic effect on the blood vessels,
vitamin B is especially helpful in heart conditions and
in preventing and reducing edema. It also prevents
nervous and muscular weakness of the heart. In-
vestigators have caused and cured heart enlargement
in test animals by withdrawing and later replacing
vitamin B in the diet. It is now believed that the
increasing death rate from heart disease is largely
due to the increasing use of devitalized foods de-
ficient in vitamins and mineral salts.
Vitamin B is an important factor. in treating
pernicious anemia and in diabetes where it gradu-
ally replaces insulin.
Its deficiency causes pathological enlargement and
dysfunction of the whole system of endocrine glands.
An excess causes sterility in rats. But hyperthyroid
conditions require an excess in humans.
The list of foods containing vitamin B is long, as
most vegetables, fruits and meats contain some.
It is more readily destroyed by heat than vitamin
A, but little is destroyed if not boiled over an hour;
but the less cooking the better.
Since it is readily soluble in water its foods should
be cooked in patapar paper so it will not be lost.
It is destroyed by alkalies, hence soda should not
be used in cooking.
VITAMINS 13
Nail-biting and thumb-sucldng are said to be
cured in 10 days by adding liberal amounts of this
vitamin and also vitamin D to the diet.
Its best sources are salad greens, carrots, cabbage,
asparagus, peas, parsnips, sweet potatoes, fruits,
whole grain cereals, (brown rice, oats, barley, rye,
wheat), and most nuts.
Other good sources are fish-roe, oysters, egg-
yolks, whole milk, buttermilk, meats, liver, kidneys,
heart, brains, and honey.
/ Vitamin C. The Anti-scurvy, and Tooth Vitamin
Vitamin C is essential for the growth and health
of the teeth and bones. Its deficiency results in
bleeding gums, loose teeth, pyorrhoea, sore joints,
rheumatism and easily broken bones Tooth trouble
rapidly disappears when a liberal amount of Vitamin
C is added to the diet. Supplying vitamin D alone
is not enough.
Its deficiency results in loss of appetite and weight,
weakness, rapid respiration and heart action, also
scurvy.
Owing to its tonic effect on the blood vessels and
capillaries, its lack causes dilated blood vessels with
capillary hemorrhages, tendency to bruise easily, and
black-and-blue spots. On this account its lack is a
factor in producing stomach and intestinal ulcers.
Although both vitamins C and B are essential for
maintaining the normal tone of the bIood vessels,
vitamin C is especially valuable in nervous heart
conditions of youth and middle age, especially palpi-
tation, shortness of breath, high blood pressure, and
also low blood pressure when due to impaired adrenal
function.
15
16 HEALTH HINTS
Its lack is also a factor in thyroid and goiter dis-
orders, anemia in children due to impaired iron ab-
sorption, as it is essential to the absorption of oxy-
gen. Anemia which resisted treatment by iron has
been cured by lemon juice.
Combined with vitamin E it is effective in vericose
veins.
Being essential for the production of mucin which
protects the digestive tract from self-digestion, its
lack favors stomach and intestinal ulcers, as it allows
dilation and congestion of the capillaries.
Together with vitamin B it is essential for the
normal function of the thyroid and adrenal glands,
being more effectual than iodine.
With B it also promotes the activity of the white
blood cells, and co-operates with D in regulating
calcium absorption, diffusing it to the tissues from
the blood. It is also valuable in tuberculosis.
It is easily destroyed by heat, even at low tempera-
hires, also by alkalies, such as soda etc. With the
exception of tomatoes (whose acid preserves it)
cooked foods cannot be depended upon for this
vitamin, although the skin and outer layers of baked
potatoes is a good source of it.
It is not stored up in the body, hence raw fruits
and vegetables containing it should be eaten every
day.
Its most valuable sources are citrus fruits, salad
VITAMINS 17
greens, cabbage, turnips, cauliflower, asparagus,
tomatoes, radishes, rutabagas, berries, canteloups,
most raw fruits, sprouted grains, bean sprouts, also
raw milk brains, kidneys and liver.
Vitamin D. The Rickets Vitamin
Vitamin D controls the absorption of mineral salts,
especially calcium and phosphorus. Without it the
minerals needed for building teeth and bones can-
not be absorbed, hence stunted growth and deformed
bones (rickets) result.
Even if there are ample amounts of minerals and
vitaminic C in the diet, without a good supply of
vitamin D they cannot be absorbed, for D is required
to enable C to store up the calcium. Without D the
calcium phosphate will even be taken from the bones
to supply the calcium needed by the blood, thus
weakening the bones. Vitamin D enables the blood
to both absorb and diffuse the calcium to the tissues.
These alkaline phosphates are found in abundance
only in wheat bran. But wheat bran is very irritat-
ing to the intestines, hence should not be eaten alone,
and only in small quantities. It should always be
especially finely ground.
Since both calcium and phosphorous are essential
to the nerves, a lack of D results in a marked in-
crease in nervousness, irritability and insomnia. Its
lack in children especially results in restlessness,
quarrelsomeness, low resistance to infections, and
19
20 HEALTH HINTS
predisposes to pneumonia, tuberculosis and stomach
ulcers.
Sunstroke is largely due to a vitamin D toxicosis
due to too high a percentage of blood calcium.
Nature expects the animal to get vitamin D largely
from the Sun, for the skin contains a small amount
of ergosterol which is changed into vitamin D by
the ultra-violet rays of sunlight, hence the efficiency
of sun-baths for rickets. Because of this fact people
in very sunny parts of the southwestern states are
apt to have many wrinides and a weather-beaten ap-
pearance because of an excess of vitamin D forma-
tion in the skin by the excessive sunlight. Persons
exposed to excessive sunlight should therefore drink
freely of oatmeal water or eat oatmeal because its
vitamin F counteracts vitamin D. But an excessive
diet of oatmeal may induce rickets because it pre-
vents the absorption of calcium by vitamin D.
Synthetic vitamin D (irradiated ergosterol) is
greatly inferior to that found in natural sources, 40
to 120 thnes as much being required as of cod-liver
oil.
Continued overdoses of vitamin D, as in cod-liver
oil, are dangerous, for it causes arterlo-sclerosis and
symptoms of premature senility. Babiqs have died
from kidney trouble from being given too much
cod-liver oil.
VITAMINS 21
Persons using gland extracts without vitamin D
get poor results.
There are comparatively few foods which con-
tain enough D to be considered good sources, but
ergosterol is changed into it by ultra-violet light.
Hence foods containing D have it greatly enriched
by irradiation with ultra-violet light.
The best sources of vitamin D are sun-baths, fish-
liver oil, egg-yolks, butter and red salmon. Smaller
amounts are found in milk, cream, liver, oysters
and spinach.
Vitamin E. The Anti-sterility Vitamin
Vitamin E is essential to reproduction, and with
vitamin B it is important during pregnancy and
lactation.
Its absence causes abortions.
It is needed to prevent atrophy of the sex glands,
but is not a sex stimulant. Its deficiency brings on
frigidity, impotence, sterility, muscular debility,
nervous impairment and inco-ordination.
In combination with A it is useful in eczema, hives
and dermatitis. In anemic conditions it improves
the skin color and tones up deflated tissues, although
if taken in excess (such as too much spinach extract)
it favors anemia.
In combination with F it is helpful in neuritic and
arthritic pains, and enlarged prostate.
Combined with A it is helpful in dropsy, and com-
bined with C it is useful in angina pectoris and
cerebral hemorrhage.
It promotes the supply of calcium and magnesium
to the tissues and prevents deposits of calcium around
the joints and elsewhere.
Its deficiency causes loss of accommodation in
both the lens and the iris of the eye.
23
24 HEALTH HINTS
It is not easily destroyed by heat.
Cancer in rats induced by the use of tar, has been
reported by experimenters as cured by the use of
vitamin E.
It occurs in small quantities in many foods, but
most abundantly in the germ cells of cereals, espe-
daily wheat and corn, and in vegetable oils. Spinach,
lettuce, watercress and fruits also contain fair
amounts.
Vitamin F (Old B). The Nutritional Vitamin
This is a fat-soluble vitamin indispensable to
normal nutrition and healthy epithelial tissues.
It improves the circulation, and the skin color
in anemia.
It co-operates with D in calcium control, but ag-
grevates rickets if D is deficient.
Its deficiency tends to rough or peeling skin,
giant hives, sores and ultimate eczema; brittle and
falling hair, dandruff, brittle and ridged or fluted
finger nails, frail bones in the aged, kidney irrita-
tion, hematuria, albuminuria, glycosuria and suscep-
tibility to colds, distress in hot weather; also sus-
ceptibility to vitamin D poisoning, as it neutralizes
the excess of D.
As a stimulant to the liver and bowels it is valua-
ble in constipation. It is especially valuable in
prostatic conditions.
Vitamin F alone has so improved the accommoda-
tion of the eyes as to require a refitting of glasses,
while in combination with A and C it makes the
clearing up of cataracts much more rapid.
Stubborn cases of high blood pressure have yielded
to its use.
25
26 HEALTH HINTS
It is worth a trial in all cases of feebleness in old
age, as well as in arthritis and neuritis, for vitamin
D loads the blood with calcium but F diffuses it to
the tissues.
it is therefore indicated in kidney, bladder and
gall stones.
It is also indicated in hay-fever, asthma and skin
diseases.
Its most reliable sources are linseed oil, flaxseed,
oatmeal, and especially rye. Small amounts are also
found in milk and fish-liver oiL
Vitamin G (Old Ba). The Pellagra and
Cataract Vitamin
Vitamin G is essential to growth and well-being,
and especially for the prevention of pellagra and
cataract
It is necessary to normal calcium absorption and
red blood cell fonnation, and is therefore beneficial
in anemia.
Age changes in the eyes are due to disordered
calcium and vitamin functions. According to Hene
there is a 500% increase in the calcium content of
the eye lens between the ages of 34 and 56.
In test animals a deficiency of G almost invariably
causes cataract (in 70 out of 72 rats tested), but in
treating humans, G alone is not as useful as when
combined with A, C and F. The time required for
successful results with cataracts is from 4 to 14
months.
Combined with C vitamin G is helpful for yen-
cose veins.
It is very soluble in water, but withstands con-
siderable cooldng, although it is destroyed by alka-
lies.
Its best source is the germ portioti of cereals,
27
28 HEALTH HINTS
green leaves, milk, eggs, yeast, cheese, and lean
meats. Other fair sources are broccoli, cabbage,
carrots, cauliflower, beets, peas, avacadoes, peanuts
and soy beans.
SUMMARY
Vitamin A. Anti-infective
Essential to growth. Protects all mucous mein-
branes. Protects against gall-stones.
Sources: Green and yellow leaves and vegetables,
fruits, milk and its products, egg-yolks, liver, fish,
oysters.
Vitamin B. Anti-neuritic
Protects nerves and brain.
Prevents Beriberi, goiter, rickets.
Necessary for absorption of starches and sweets,
for peristalsis and endocrine functioning.
Very soluble in water.
Sources: Green and yellow vegetables, fruits,
sweet potatoes, whole grains, nuts, milk,. butternillk
egg-yolks, fish, meats, organs.
Vitamin C. Anti-scurvy
Essential to growth, also to the teeth. Protects
from pyorrhoea, rheumatism, weak bones, bruises,
ulcers, high blood pressure, heart conditions.
Not stored. Easily killed.
Sources: Citrus fruits, greens, asparagus, cab-
29
30 HEALTH HINTS
bage, cauliflower, radishes, tomatoes, fruits, milk,
organs.
Vitamin D. Anti-rickitic
Essential to growth of bones.
Protects from pneumonia, tuberculosis, ulcers,
wrinkles, sunstroke.
Sources: Sunbaths, fish oils, butter, red salmon,
milk, cream, liver, oysters, spinach.
Vitamin E. Anti-sterility
Protects from sterility, eczema, calcium deposits,
loss of accommodation.
Sources: Cereal germs, vegetable oils, spinach,
lettuce, watercress, fruits.
Vitamin F. Nutritional and Skin
Protects from skin disease, falling hair, brittle
nails and bones, high blood pressure, hay-fever,
asthma.
Sources: Linseed, flax seed, oatmeal, rye, milk,
fish oils.
Vitamin G. Anti-Pellagra, Anti-cataract
Essential to growth, calcium absorption, cells.
Very soluble.
Sources: Cereals, greens, milk, cheese, eggs,
meats, broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, carrots, beets,
peas, peanuts, soy beans.
SUMMARY 31
TABLE OF FOODS ESPECIALLY RICR IN VITAMINS
The letter x indicates a fair amount, xx a good amount, and xxx
the mimum amount of the vitamin indicated.
Vitamins
CD E F G
Vegdables
Artichokes x 0 x 0 0 0 0
Asparagus x xxx xxx 0 0 0 0
Beans, string xxx xx xx 0 0 0 0
Beets 0 0 0 0 0 0 xx
Beet tops xxx xxx xxx 0 0 0 xxx
Broccoli mxx xx 0 0 0 xx
BrusselsSprouts xx 0 xxx 0 0 0 0
Cabbage xxmm 0 0 0 xx
Cantaloupes xx xx xxx 0 0 0 0
Carrots xxxmxx 0 0 0 xx
Cauliflower x xx xxx 0 0 0 xx
Celery 0 xx 0 0 0 0 0
Chard xxx 0 0 0 0 0 0
Collards xxx xxx xxx 0 0 0 xx
Corn, green x xx xx 0 xx 0 0
Cornmeal, yellow x xxx 0 0 0 0 0
Cucumbers 0 0 xx 0 0 0 0
Dandelions m 0 0 0 0 0 0
Dock xxx 0 0 0 0 0 0
Endive x 0 xx 0 0 0 0
Flaxseed x xx 0 0 0 xxx 0
Grains,whole 0 xx xx 0 0 0 xxx
Kale mm 0 0 0 0 xxx
Kohlrabbi 0 xx xx 0 0 0 0
Leeks 0 xx 0 0 0 0 0
Lentils 0 xx 0 0 0 0 0
Lettuce xxx xx xx 0 xx 0 0
Linseed 0 0 0 0 0 xxx 0
Oats x xx 0 0 0 xxx 0
Okra xx xx 0 0 0 0 0
Olives xx xx m 0 xxx 0 xx
Onions 0 xx xx 0 0 0 0
Parsley m 0 xxx 0 0 0 0
Parsnips xxm 0 0 0 0 0
Peas, green xxx xxx xxx 0 0 0 x
Peppers, green xxx xx xxx 0 0 0 0
32 HEALTH HINTS
Vitamins
A B C D E G
Vegekthics
Potatoes, sweet xxx xx xx 0 0 0 0
Potatoes, white 0 xx xx 0 0 0 0
Pumpkin x x x 0 0 0 0
Radishes 0 0 xxx 0 0 0 0
Rice, brown 0 xxx 0 0 0 0 0
Rutabagas 0 xx xxx 0 0 0 0
Soybeans 0 0 0 0 0 0 xxx
Spinach xxx xxx xxx xxx lxx 0 xxx
xxx 0 0 0 0 0 0
xxx 0 0 0 0 0 0
Tomatoes xxx xx xxx 0 0 0 xx
Thm 0 xx xxx 0 0 0 0
Turnip tops xxx xxx xxx 0 0 0 xxx
Vegetable oils 0 0 0 0 0 0
Wheat germs 0 0 0 0 xxx 0 xxx
Hmoy 0 xx 0 0 0 0 0
Proldns
Bee4 lean 0 xxx 0 0 0 0 xxx
Brains, 0 xx xxx 0 0 0 0
Butter xxx 0 0 xx 0 0 0
Buttermilk 0 xx 0 0 0 0 xx
raam
c&
xx
xx
I
x
0
0
xx
0
0
0
0
0
0
xxx
chicken 0 xxx 0 0 0 0 xxx
Egg-yolks
Fish
xxx
0
xx
xx
0
0
xxx
0
0
0
0
0
xx
xx
Fish oils xxx 0 0 xxx 0 xx 0
Fish roe xxx xx 0 0 0 0 0
Heaft 0 xx 0 0 0 0 xxx
Kidney xx xx xxx 0 0 0
Liver xxx xx xx xx 0 0 xxx
Milk xx xx 0 xx 0 xx xxx
Oysters U xx 0 xx 0 0 0
Salmon, red xx 0 0 xx 0 0 m
Sardines 0 0 0 xx 0 0 0
Pndis
xxx
0 0 xx 0 0 0 0
Nuts
Mi contain moderate amounts of B, but peanuts add G.
SUMMARY 33
Vilamfr.s
A B C D E G
Fruils
Avacadoes xx 0 0 0 m
Bnn xx xx xx 0 0 0 xx
Berries xx 0 xx 0 0 0 0
Cherries xx 0 xx 0 0 0 0
Currants 0 0 xxx 0 0 0 0
Dates xx xx 0 0 0 0 0
Figs 0 xx 0 0 0 0 xx
Grapes 0 xx 0 0 0 0 0
Grapefruit 0 xx xxx 0 0 0 xx
Guavas 0 0 xxx 0 0 0 0
Goembethea 0 0 xx 0 0 0 0
Lemons 0 xx xxx 0 0 0 0
Limes 0 0 xxx 0 0 0 0
Mangoes xxx 0 xxx 0 0 0 0
Olives 0 xx xxx 0 0 0 xx
Oranges xx xx xxx 0 xxx 0 xx
0 0 xx 0 0 0 0
xxx xx xx 0 0 0 0
Pears 0 xx 0 0 0 0 xxx
Pineapples 0 xx xx 0 0 0 0
Prunes xxx xx 0 0 0 0 0
Res 0 0 xxx 0 0 0 0
Strawberries 0 0 m 0 0 0 0
Tangerines 0 0 m 0 0 0 0
Watermelons xx U 0 0 0
The Fellowship of the
Order of Christian Mystics
A non-sectarian spiritual movement for the promulgation
of a Cosmic and all-inclusive spirituil philosophy which
gives a satisfactory and scientific explanation of every
phase and condition of life both here and hereafter.
Christian in ethics, yet non-sectarian and universaL
Monthly lessons and personal correspondence on all vital
problems sent on the free-will offering basis.
If the teachings of the Order presented in this volume
have interested and helped you, send for Descriptive
Pamphlet.
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M.D., Sec'y.
351 Quebec Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.
"THE CURTLSS BOOKS"
These books present the philosophy of Christian Psychology and
Mysticism in plain, comprehensible terms and applied to the daily
life. Not mere theory and metaphysical speculation, but a definite
and comprehensible philosophy of life and Soul.growth, tested
through ycars of experience, which includes a rational explanation
of all forms of mysticism and Biblical Occultism, Ss well as the
vital and complex problems of modern life and all after-death eon-
d*tions.
There are perhaps no books on the market to-day which so ful.
fill the needs of the awakened Soul who is seeking to know and
understand bow to apply the universal laws of the spiritual life
under present and cumin; world conditions. While philosophical
and comprehensive in their scope, they also answer the beart.cry
for love, light and life.
Just the books to place In the bands of a friend who is cut.
growing former limitations of thought and old conceptions. Chris-
tian in their ethics, yet non-sectarian, cosmic and universal.
Send for Descriptive Catalog.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK Co.
3510 Quebec St., N. W., Wasbington, D. C.
"The Curtiss Books" Dispel the Mists From Mysticism
The VOICE OF ISIS
A TEXT BOOK OF THE SPIRITUAL LIFE
A Veritable Compendium of Christian Psychology, Spiritual
Philosophy and Esoteric Biblical Interpretation
Not cold, intellectual essays, but vibrant with sympathy, understand-
ing and comfort for those facing life's trials and problems, explaining
the reasons therefor and how to master them. Radiant with practical
help. Takes fear out of the Bible.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
Life's Duties and How to Recognize and Accomplish ThemThe
Cycle of Fulfillment. The European War Foreshadowed and Causes
Given Two Years Before It BeganDegrees and Orders, and the
Celestial HierarchiesThe Wisdom ReligionConcerning the Doctrine
of Hell Fire, Takes Fear Out of the BibleThe Eleventh Command-
mentNarcotics, Alcohol and PsychismA Study of KarmaThe
SelfThe Doctrine of Avatara. A Clear Explanation of the Laws
Under Which the Christ May Be Expected to Manifest on Earth in
This Age, exposes the mistake of the many daim2ntsA Study of
ReincarnationThe Seven Powers of ManA Brief Outline of Eve-
lution, both Man and NatureThe Sevenfold LawThe Formation
of World ChainsPurity, and the problem of sexThe Origin of Man,.
a clear explanation which reconciles Fundamentalists and Liberals
The Symbol of the SerpentPurification vs. DeificationThe Memory
of Past Lives, explains why so many think they have been great per-
sonages in the pastThe Cycle of NecessityThe Path of Afisinment-
Earth's Finer ForcesThe Descent of the LightThe Two Tables of
Stone, or Woman's True Place and Mission in LifeThe Thiling
Prayer, and how to use itHow to Enter the SilenceNature's Mystic
Alphabet. A Study of the Relation of Sound, Number, Color and
FormThe Word Made FleshIlluminationThe Symbol of the Salt
Thou Shalt Not Kill, Covering the Whole Problem of Meat Pring
The Prayer of ConsecrationThe Meaning of the Symbol of the
Order.
"The Curtiss Books" Help You to Help Yourself
The VOICE OF ISIS
APPRECIATIONS
"Here we have a wise book.!'Portland Oregoniws.
"Is the most valuable, yes, the most practical of any that has come
under the observation of the reviewer."Joliet News.
"A marvel of erudition. Practical instruction accompanies well reasoned
theory at every turn."The Occult Review, London.
"Reveals with wonderful simplicity, directness and convincing force,
Christianity as perceived by the light of the Secret Wisdom."Azoth
Magazine, New York.
"It Is Indeed an epoch-maldng volume and almost every subject of
importance is treated . . . and elucidated beautifully. Verily those who
accept the authorsr Interpretations. . . will be students of Universal
Rellglon."Ka4aka Magazine, India.
"High Ideals are given upon sex and generation, and the book Is
permeated with a large tolerance and loving service towards advancing
hunianity."The Master Mind, Los Angeles.
"It Is the practical problems of life. . . that constitute Its use and
commend It to every earnest student."Tke Public, Chfrgo.
"Altogether, this Is a book rich in thought and suggestlon."Tke
.lmerrcan Tiseosopisist.
"It contains truth of the highest spiritual order which the student of
Truth may readily lay hold upon."Unity, 'n'' City.
"Not only has the book very favorably Impressed me through its
common seine way of treating subjects on which occultists sometimes
go wild, but I have almost Invariably heard the same expression of
opinion from others who have read it."Editor The 0. B. Library Critic,
Washington.
"Undoubtedly the best that has appeared for some time.. . written
in a style both simple and scholarly."Newport Plain Talk.
"The greatest book since The Secret Doctrine."J. B.
"The first and only book that gives me a feeling of complete satis-
faction as I read."Mrs. S. S. B.
"I keep it close and read it as some do their Bibl&'Mrs. C. W.
"For me, your book is the most Inclusive, popular, comprehensive,
sane and balanced, and saturated with that wonderful and helpful
_____ of understanding, sympathy and love, which makes your book
a living friend. Your spiritual psychology is unique I It has opened my
cycs.".P. R. German edition, $3O
Thirteenth Edition, 433 Pages, Elaborate Index. Price, $L50
German Edition, $3.00
"The Curtiss Books" Explain the Second Coming
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
Not a sequel to The Voice of Isis, but rather a response to the
urgent call for further and more advanced instruction concerning the
great unrest in world conditions, and their solution.
Also contains a reasonable and scientific explanation of how and
when and to whom the Son of Man will appear at the Second Coming.
The only satisfactory exposition of this subject.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Mystic Lifein nature, so in manbow to react to stimuli from
the inner world as we now react to the outer.The Sign Aquarius
doctrine of cycles and agesthe Sign of the Son of Man in heaven.
Are These the Last Dayscycles of Races and sub-racesmeaning of
"the end of the world."Co.nats and Eclipseshow cosmic changes
affect the Earththe Sun-spot cycle and its effectHalley's comet
ushered in Aquarian AgeThe Law of Growthbow the ideal mani-
fests through the Law of Growththe dynaspheric force.Birth of
the New Agethe Water Bearerembodiment of the ChristHis
teachings.Jacob and Eraumeaning of the trickeryof Jacob's twelve
sonssymbology of the Stars and Stripesis America the seat of
the new race?Mastery and the Mastersmeaning of mastery and
how attainedfeminine Mastersthe Great White LodgeMother
Earthher alchemyher seven layersorigin of insect pests and plant
blightseffect of blood shed on battlefleldsThe Four Windsuse of
4 in the Biblecoming cataclysms.The Three JohnsJohn the Bap-
tist, John the Beloved, John the Revelator.Children of the House-
holdthe Prayer for Demonstrationprotection from astral forces--
astral chillastral diseaseschild trainingattaining material supply.
Man, Know Thyselfdivisions of manlaws of mindconcentration
on the solar plexustraining the subconscious mindthe superconsdous
symbol of the carpenterof Herodthe crudfixion.Orderly Sequence
effect of order and disorderThe Spiral of Lifereason for changes
in lifeuse of the Masters' names.Lifa Waveslaw of wave-motion
rhythm of the breathtidal wavesstorms of emotionmagnetic
variations of the Earth.Message of the Sphinxmeaning of the
scaraborigin of the Order of Christian Mysticscrypt beneath the
SphinxThe Second Woelength of the four periods of the woe
false prophets.The Day of Judgmentsigns of His coming.Law of
Sacrificesacrifice of the Sun in Naturevalue of talismansvalue
of sacriflce.The Sheep and the Goatstheir symbologythe "other
sbeep."The Mystic Oakorigin and function of the dancerhythmic
motion in religions servicessymbology of Circle and Sun dances
origin of bonfires and the MaypoleDryads and Naiads.The Tha-
snout! Hea,'tformation of a diamondforces obtained from a dia-
inond.The True Priesthoodmeaning of priest, hierophant, prophet-
Meichisedec and Jesushow an Avatar manifestsHis near advent
partial Avatars or Avesha&Å New Testame,UJesus' new testament
The Curtlu Books" Give a New Outlook on LII.
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
symbology of "the upper cbamber'of bloodof the bread and wine.
Crossing Jordanwandering In the wildernessdividing the waters
crossing dry-shod--Taking Jerichosymbology of the ram's horns
why the walls felLThe Vain ShowLuciferdistinction between Lud-
fer Satan and the devilUniversal Center of the Solar Schoolthe
Luciferian SchoolFaith and WorksSun Initiatiod.Marswhy
Mars is redrelation of Mars and Venuswhy the Bible is allegorical.
The Sj*itual Birthplace of the spiritual birththe spiritual or
Nirrnnya bodyThe Mighty Angel"this same Jesus shall so come
in like rni&nrwr"His method of appearanceconditions necessaryhow
to recognize ElmThe Soul's Guerdo*lesson of each Earth-life-
object of Incarnationvalue of ceremonies, observances, diet, etcthe
I.ord from heaven.
APPRECIATIONS
"An admirably conceived and well produced volume, which should do
much to Increase still further the wide circle of students to whom the
Christo-Theosophy of The Order of Christian Mystics makes so strong
an appeaL"The Occult Review, London.
"Rave only got about one-fourth through with 'The Message of
Aquaria,' but the book is so good that I want to put one in each of our
public llbraries."R. H. W.
"The book makes Interesting reading.... These two authors are ap-
parently authorities.".San Francisco Journal.
"These books are not claptrap utterances of shallow minds; they are
deep and sincere."Oakland Tribune.
"Quite apart from their great Tn.2ge to the world, the amount of
actual knowledge they contain and the extraordinary high standard of
literary finish, together with perfect simplicity of language and style,
snake this side of these works (the Curtiss books) without a jarring
note."A. A. B., London.
"What a tremendous work you have accomplished! How immensely
important! Your works must certainly become more widely known all
over the world! The highest spirituality breathes through every sen-
tence. I am amazed at the immense spiritual value I have discovered
and am daily discovering in them. They are Soul-uplifting to an in-
credible degree I Row blessed you are to receive these splendors from
the Infinite Consciousness direct! You are two Souls specially favored
by Heaven! With the greatest esteem and admiration, your friend.".
Baron Albert Van der Naillen, author of In the Sanctuary, etc.
Complete Index. Fifth &dition. Price, $2.50
wrhe Curtias Booha" Explain the Mysteries ci Life
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
"This work is not only the most comprehensive and authoritative
book on the significance and spiritual iaterpretatio,s of numbers arid
symbols, but its 40 chapters contain more new, reliable and spiritually
helpful information on numbers, letters, the Tarot cards, the circle,
triangle, square, pentacle, Seal of Solomon, the Coinmandni'ts, Includ-
ing the esoteric interpretation of many Bible and classic myths hereto-
fore little understood, also Masonic symbols, the Trinity, the Vinhhn,
angels, mythology, evolution, cycles, initiations, etc., than many sep-
arate books on those subjects."Baltimore American.
Not a dry mathematical treatise, nor mere speculative theories.
Illustrations and confirmations frour natwe at every turn.
Shows "That all personal experiences are expressions of the one
Great Law manifesting according to mathematical principles, demon-
strating that the unfoldment of the godlike possibilities inherent in each
Soul follows, step by step, the same order of events that is followed
in the Cosmos."
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
The Origin of Numerical Systemsthe Symbol of the Circle, Ser-
pent, Kirk and Churchthe Druids and HyperboseansRound Towers
of IrelandIndians' Use of Feathersthe Circle as the Egg and the
CatOrigin of the Decimal SystemOrigin of the Druid Bonfires
and MaypoleWhy 1 Comes Firstthe Letter AlephThe Juggler
Origin of Constantine's Symbolthe Magic Wand and CronesSoul-
marriageKey to the Universal Law of Sexthe Letter Beththe
High PriestessJ akin and BoasSolar CrossVellof Isisthe 3 Great
Star StreamsOrigin of the Triangle and the TrinityDiagram of
Law of Marriage and DivorceTripod of Pythian PriestessNoah and
ills SonsProphets in the Fiery FurnacePower of the Spoken Word
"Army of the Voice"The Letter Gi,relThe EmpressOrigin of
the Square, and Cross, Swastikathe 4 Beaststhe 4 Windsthe 4
Gospelsthe 4 RIvers of Eden-40 Years in the Wilderness-40 Days'
Fastthe 4 Castes of Mankind-4 Stages of Civilization-4 Forms of
Government, the last of which we are now enteringthe DoJ,*
The EmperorDifference between Sabbath and SundayRole of
SaturnS Pointed StaBe1h,iir's VisionClairvoyance Not a 6th
SenseSymbol of the Crocodilethe S T2lkmnt of the S asAnti-
gonus' Vision of the PentadeEffect of a Reversed Symbolthe Letter
NJThe PopeOffering Up Isaac-6 Days of Creatlon-6 Days of
LaborNumber 6 and the Elementalsthe Letter VauThe Mystery
of Creationthe 7 ElobimMusic of the SpheresColors of the Musi-
cal ScaleApollo's Lyrethe Pipes of Panthe number of Gestation
the 7-fold Earth Chainthe 7 Races and Sub-races--the 7-fold Con-
struction of Manthe 7 Cycles of Lifethe 7-fold Basis of Masonry
Mme. Blavatsky and Number 7the 7 Churches in AsiaNumber 7 In
Revelationthe 7-Pointed StarSeal of SolomonLegend of the Mine-
tourof Phaetonthe 7 Principles of Man clearly expoundedthe 7
«The Curtiss Books" Renew Faith through Knowiedge
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
Phiades and the 7 RisbisMyth of Orionof Niobethe Letter Zal.
The Chariotthe Number of Evolutionlhe Octavethe 8th Sphere
the Dweller on the ThresholdValley of the Shadow of Deaththe
Letter HetkJusticethe Number of InitiationApollonius of Tyana
MeditationGenii of the HoursHigher InitiationsPlato and Num-
ber 9the 9th Hourthe 9 Musesthe Mystery of Number 9
Symbology of a Ropethe 144,000the Letter TetkTlse Hermit
the Number 10the Number of Completionthe Decadthe Sun
Abram and SandZodiac Formerly had Only 10 SignsDiagram of
the Group-SoulMeaning of the 10 Lepersthe Letter YodThe
Wheel of Life--the Joy of CompletionKey-note of CreationGeo-
logic ErasNumber of Completed Earth, Man and Super-man.
APPRECIATIONS
'In this book all the lore of centuries that baa gathered about the
number from 1 through 10 is set forth with a perfect wealth of
detail.. . This book is easily the most complete and satisfactory
bringing together of Information that Is scattered In hundreds of vol-
%imes not readily acasslble"The Boston Post.
"It is the most faa-ln2ting book I ever "De Casseres, New
York Sun.
"It certainly makes out a good brief for the sipIflrw of num-
bers, and one well supported by mathematics and music... . It con-
tains much besides the Ingenious showing of the curious correspondence
of numberr."Springfield Republican.
"An elaborate spiritual Interpretation of numbers and symbols which
supplements Middle Age deliverances In this field with illustrations
from modern science, and comes near to relegating Pythagoras to the
shelf as a back number. .. . The treatise presents an amount of well
collected Information which no student of numbers and their form
symbols can afford to neglect.. . . The general aim Is both ethical and
relig1oua"Boston Herald.
"It Is deep and profound. As one goes Into this m.gi. of phi-
Iosopliy cue becwn. vitally Interested, and even awecL"l5ortlond
Oregonian.
"The person who has only an amused contempt for this sort of
thing will yet find a gripping interest in contemplating what it has
produced."The San Francisco Chronicle.
"Goes deeply into the philosophy of numbers and should be of
interest to all students of symbolism and Freemasonry. ... Not a
mathematical dissertation, but replete with occult information."
Masonic New Age Magazine.
"Easily the most complete and satisfactory bringing together of
- all the lore of centuries that has gathered about numbers
set forth with a perfect wealth of detail."Boskn Post.
Profusely illustrated with ten full-page plates, portrait of Mrs.
Curtiss, many diagrams, tables, etc.
Complete index. Sleth and Revised Editio*. Price $2.50
0The Curtiss Boob" Have Remodeled Men's Lives
The KEY OF DESTINY
A Sequel to The Key to the Universe
This volume presents three revelations of supreme importance, con-
cerning the origin of the Zodiac, the Labors of Hercules, and the
relation of the Sun Myth to the Christian religion.
Why is the Zodiac divided into 12 signs and not some other number?
Why should there be only four elements, earth, air, fire, water? Why
should each have three manifestations in the Zodiac?
All the myths and allegories involving 12, such as Jacob and his 12
sons, also the 12 Disciples of Jesus, and the 12 months of the year,
etc., are all based upon the 12-fold division of the Zodiac. But
nowhere in print have we found any philosophical and scientific rea-
son why the division into 12 was chosen, save in this volume. Truly
a momentous discovery.
Why should the peculiar animals used be applied to the Zodiac when
the forms of the constellations they embrace in no way resemble or
even suggest such animals? The reason is found only in this volume.
Vitally necessary for all students of astrology.
Nowhere in all lilerature can the interpretation of the 12 Labors
of Hercules be found. In this volume the authors not only give the
interpretation, but connect each labor with its proper zodiacal sign.
This one feature might well form a valuable book in itself.
The universal Sun Myth has been the basis of the life-narrative
of every Sun God or spiritual Light Bearer sent to humanity. This
volume shows that this is more than a myth and why it is a spiritual
reality. These chapters are a direct challenge to the so-called "higher
critica" of the Bible and a complete refutation of their chief claims
against the Bible story. Of great importance to all students of com-
parative religion, to ministers and to Bible students generally.
These are only a few of the many revelations of this truly wonderful
volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
Number 11, a New Beginning, the cycle of the advanced Disciple-..
the Legend of Parsifalthe 11 year Astronomical Cyclethe 11 year
Sun Spot CycleGems and the ZodiacUse of a person's Name-
NumberReincarnation and Transmutationthe Permanent Atom
Physical ImmortalityAttitude for HealingCause of Cancerthe He-
brew Lettersthe 144,000the 11th letter, Kaphdiagrams of the
Cycle of Manifestation.
Number 12, the Manifested UniverseGeometrical Law why the
Zodiac is 12 foldDiagram of Zodiacthe Aquarian AgeWhy were
the disciples called "Fishers of Men"?Origin of the 12 Tribes-
12 Stones from Jordanthe 12 Disdples-12 Knights of King Arthur
the Last Supperthe 12 Baskets of BreadJesus at 12 yearsWhen
is Incarnation Complete?Incarnation in Various SignsMystery of
the Gobi Desert-12 Hebrew Simple Letten-12 Body Saltsjesus, the
Piscean Avatar.
"The Curtias Booke' Satiafy Both Head and Heart
The KEY OF DESTINY
The 12 Labors of HerculesRelation of Hercules and JacobKill-
ing the Nemean LionKilling the HydraCapturing the Kezynelan
DoeCapturing the Erymanthian BoarCleaning the Augean Stables
Killing the Man-eating Birds of StymphalosCapturing the Cretan
BullCapturing the Man-eating Mares of DiomedesSeizing the
Girdle of HippolyteCapturing the Oxen of Geryoneusthe Three-
headed Hell HoundObtaining the Golden Apples of HesperidesChange
from 10 signs to 12Wrestling with AntaiosMysteries of Eleusis.
Number 13Why Considered Unlucky-13 at a dinnerIts Real
SignificanceThe Savior GodMystical Meaning of the BibleHigher
Critics refutedthe Life of JesusNumber of Judas-30 pieces of
SilverMeaning of Playing Cards-13 Apparitions of Jesus.
Number 14Phantoms of the MindHawaiian Sacrec SharkLevia-
thanJonahUse of Perfumes.
Number 15Blood of the Lambthe Devil, How CreatedOrigin
of DiseasesRace KarmaPower of ThoughtDweller on the Threshold
Hour of Initiationthe Order of the 15Why EstablishedCon-
tacting the Mastersthe Holy GrailMessage of the Sphinx.
Number 16VictoryNature SpiritsEnchantments.
Number 17Disposing Intelligencethe Celestial Hlerarchies-144,000
Value of HoroscopesDiagram of the Hierarchies.
Number 18The Second InitiationBlack Magiciansthe $ Sign
Symbol of the Swan or PelicanNumber 666 and the Beast.
Number 1QNumber of the SunTwice-born--Sun Eclipse every 19
yearsthe Hyperborean Land-Druid CollegesSun Initiationthe
Philosopher's StoneCenter in the Spleenthe SwastikaEquilibrium
of the Sexes.
Number 20Celestial InitiatorPower of the ChristReason for
Spiritual Development in Deformed BodiesDescription of the Pineal
Gland and the Pituitary Bodythe Feminine Ray.
Number 21Incarnations of the Higher SelfMme. Blavatsky's last
IncarnationSpiritual Majoritythe Crocodile.
Number 22The New JerusalemSquaring the CircleLaw of Cs--
operationAquarian AgeProphecies of DiastersEstablirhing New
Conditionsthe Woman's AgeTaking Vows.
APPRECIATIONS
"They have collected a positive wealth of material about the sym-
bolism of numbers. .. . You will find here a positive treasury of in-
formation about how to climb to the ultimate attininent."The Boston
Post.
Ten full-page plates, portrait of Dr. Curtiss, many dkgvm etc.
Fourth Edition. 322 Pages. Complete Index. Price $2..O
"The Curtiss Books" Solve the Riddle of Deathand After
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DOES THE PERSONALITY SURVIVE DEATH?
Is communication possible? Is there a safe and legitimate method?
This book gives a clear, scientific, satisfying and comforting explanation
of all after-death conditions, including a dear explanation of the
problems unsoh'eA by "Raymond"; "Letters from a living Dead
Man"; "Patience Worth," etc. A rational, sdentific, all-inclusive philos-
ophy, not a mere mediumistic report.
Wastes no time with elaborate proofs of life after death. Written
for those who already know It to be a fact and desire authoritative
Instruction as to the details. Explains all methods of communication
with the invisible.
Four added chapters on Protecting PowersIndependent Commu-
nications, examplesThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a Message from
Quentin RooseveltThe AnnunciationA Message from LincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarian AgeA Message from SaturnThe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe CurtainAviator
returns.
You will find all your questions answered In this volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
Scientific proofsRivers of Life and Deaththe Seven Realms
Realm of Reflectionthe Astral Doublethe After-Death Sleepthe
Awakening of the Aged; After BattleAstral HelpersIndians as
GuidesEarth-bound Spiritsthe Law of Thought and DesireDiseases
Due to Reflex Psychic ConditionsClothing, Houses, Amusements
the Method of MaterializationSouls Seeking IncarnationCondi-
tions Around the Prospective Motherthe Hall of LetheWhy We
Forget the Higher Realms at BirthLaw of Manifestationthe Outer
1)arkness"Weeping and Wailing and Gnashing of Teeth"Masses
of Color, Perfumes, SoundsHow the Flowers Are ColoredThought-
forms and Inventionsthe Pattern MuseumAeroplane Models and
Other Inventions to ComeObsessing EntitiesPsychic Cause of
DrunkennessExamples and the CureCrimes of "Irresistible Impulse"
Lustful TemptationsControl of Sex DesiresDual and Multiple
PersonalitiesLoving Friends and HelpersSt. Paul's Injunction to
"Try the Spiri&'So-called "Lost Souls"the Dweller on the Threshold
Sad Fate of the SuicideElementalsthe Fairies, Nature Sprites--
Their Messages and PropheciesHow Gold Is FormedPsychic Realms
Diagrams of the Astral WorldDeath of the Astral BodySpirits
who "Progress to Higher Spheres"the "Hall of Learning" and the
Great Schoolsthe Great White LodgeWork of Mme. Blavatsky
ContinuesIndependent Methods of CommunionTelepathy, Clairvoy-
ance, Clalraudien, Clairsentience, Intuition, Inspiration, Theophany,
AveshaDifference Between Independent and Subjective Methods
"Spirit Control"Subjective vs. Ecstatic TranceMaterialization-
Trumpet Speakingthe Ouija Board, Examples of Its Deceptions and
"The Curtiss Books" Explain All Psychic Experiences
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DangersSir Oliver Lodge's Warning as to Automatic WritingThe
Telepathic Method, Bible ExamplesSt. Paul's Directions to All Chris-
tiansthe Astral Chill vs. the Spiritual Fire, Chill or ThrillProtecting
PowersNegative vs. Positive StatesEnoch and the Doctrine of
TranslationAlcashic Recordsfour added chapters of Independent
CommunicationsThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a Message from
Quentin RooseveltThe Annuncia&nA Message from LincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarian AgeA Message from Saturnthe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe Curtain.
You will find your questions answered In this voiwne.
APPRECIATIONS
"We can very warmly recommend this volumeBy far tile most
advanced book on the subject.Knkkerbocker Press, Albany, N. Y.
"It is the Christian hereafter that is described with the classification
of the Astral World on a scientific baszs."New York lYmes.
"Distinctively allied with the Bible.. . really of essential value."
Springfield Republican.
"One of the most valuable passages of the book, and a really notable
contribution to tile subject, Is on the treatment of drunkards and the
nature of alcohoL"Toronto Sunday World.
"We heartily recommend the chapter on The Desire Realm.
There is much other useful advice and knowledge given, such as
regards Suicides and the dangers of (subjective) mediumship. The
chapters on elementals and fairies are extremely Interesting, and alto-
gether our friends the Curtisses have given us a very valuable contribu-
tion for occult study."Editor of Azoth Magazine.
"A great deal of exceedingly useful advice is given to people regard-
ing their relation to their friends who have passed over. It is partic-
ularly desirable that in these times of death and sorrow people should
be familiar with conditions of life on the other side of the veil.
Toronto Sunday World
"A saner treatise on the After-Death life would be difficult to
find... . The Authors are perhaps world-famous for their teachings,
and this work should enhance their already great reputation.
Over 300 pages of sound knowledge and advice.... The space at
one's disposal cannot possibly do justice to a work of this caliber,
and those who would delve deeper into this subject should not fail
to read this book." The Occult Review (London).
Can You Afford to Remain Ignorant on This Vitally
Important Subject?
Sixth Edition. Wit!, New Appendir on Narcotics and Prayers of
The 0. C. M. $2.50
"The Curtiss Books" solve evolutionary problems
THE TRUTH ABOUT EVOLUTION
and the BIBLE
A new and Illuminating concept of evolution.
Revolutionary yet inspiring views of the whole Garden of Eden
story. A new interpretation of the factors claimed by both sides of the
controversy and a rational basis for the reconciliation of religion and
science; of the Fundamentalists and the Liberals.
Profound, yet clear and simply expressed. Scientifically accurate, yet
not tiresomely statistical or unduly terhnfrI Vibrant with deep spirit-
ual understanding and penetrating insight into ultimate re2lifirL nf
fundamentals of both causation and manifestation.
Expands the mental horizon. Satisfies the head, yet thrills the heart.
A grasp of this book will enable one to ,n,inth, his stand In any
company. Answers all questions.
Covers all phases, both biblical azeI scIentiIc.
Chapters on Science, what it has proved as to the evolution of forms.
Materialism. Not a sound philosophy. Accept Its facts, but not its
conclusions. Manifestation. Necessity of a pattern and bow material-
ized. Examples. Creation. The first Adam created, the second Jormed.
Not the descendants of apes and why. Evolution not a mechanical
process. Spiritual radio-activity. Adam and Eve. Not parents of all.
flow and why the separation of the sexes took place. Woman's place
and duty. Sex appeal. Garden of Eden. In all religions. No such
place even found. Meaning. Trees in the Garden. Meaning of their
fruit. Why banished? The Serpent Power. Why used as a symbol?
Sex not impure. The Kundalini-force, effect on spinal cord and brain.
Urity in Duality. The Twain one Flesh. True marriage made In heaven.
Object of marriage. Trial and companionate marriages. SuppbmiiIvy
chapters on God, The Image of God, and Emmanuel.
APPRECLI TIONS
"A new conception of evolution." New Yorh Times.
"A new interpretation of the factors claimed by both sides In the
controversy over evolution and the Bible." Detroit Free Press.
"The findings of science are well stated" Richmond Times-Dispatch.
"A new and eniightenIng contribution.... Contains a profound dis-
cussion of the conflict between science and religion and offers an In-
teresting explanation." Spokane Chronicle.
"The writers unquestionably deplore the drift toward a,m1frmn, am)
they wish to reinforce the drift to spirituality" Boston Transcript.
"Written In a way to hold the interest." Oakland Tribune.
"The place of woman as the complement of man is demonstrated."
Columbus Dispatch.
"The story of Eden and the modern social problems Involved are dis-
cussed at length and with much interesting commnf." Buffalo Courier-
Express.
"Written in simple, clear language the book gives a striking Impres-
alan of theprocess of evolution .. . In which man shares on all planes
It Is a source of light, a revelation to be welcomed by all such as long
and thirst for an underst2rvling of the unity of all life and to whom
'Ihe Curdas Books" illumine biblical allegories
the Bible so far had remained obscure." Editor, Coude a Coude, Paris.
"The Curtisses in this volume have cast upon this subject a search-
light of profound spiritual perception, bringing light to many things
heretofore hidden. The book is splendidly written, a rich mine of infor-
mation, and we advise each one of our readers to obtain this valuable
and much-needed treasure volume." Editor, The Aquarian Age.
'Written with simple clarity and directness and reveals the profound
thought as well as the constructive religion of the co-authors." Bal..
letin, National League of American Pen Women.
"The old knowledge is transfigured by the new and Inspired concep-
tion. Instead of the letter which killeth, we are given food for the
growth of the souL Editor, Psychic Science, London.
"You may take your Bible literally or otherwise, but you are bound
to find The Truth About Evolution and the Bible a stimulating and
thought-provoking book.... The sort of book that can be picked
up and 'dipped into' anywhereintensely readable from the first page to
the last." Editor, Occult Digest.
"The latest work from the inspiring pen of these two highly special-
ized students of the Scriptures, and the psychology of the Spirit, with.
all its symbolism brought down to earth, and presented In language
both simple and impressive.... This book Is commended to all who
are interested in things of the Spirit and who are striving to widen and
deepen their understanding of symbology." Editor, Knowing People.
"We are always glad to see a new book by the Curtisses appear at
our desk. We stop work at once and read it, for the several books
Issued by these gifted authors thus far have always been not only
helpful but of unusual merit.... We have enjoyed It. We have
profited by it. The clean, wholesome, sane, logical philosophy em-
bodied cannot fall to Impress constructively. We affirm that it is dis-
tinctly good stuff." Editor, Mercury.
"The study of the Bible in the light of the above views ought to en-
courage every thinHng Christian to a more rational and scientific view
of religion and must satisfy both his Intellect and his heart.... We
look to this book therefore as of profound use and Interest to all truly
religious)' Editor, The Kalpaka, India
"An addition to the well-known 'Curtiss Books' is sure of a welcome
from many readers.... Much of the symbolism of the Bibleand
particularly of the creation story in Genesisis explained In an Illumi-
nating style.... The chapters dealing wIth the sex problem and the
true meaning of marriage . . . will no doubt prove helpful to many
people who are groping for truth amid all the conflicting theories
preached today . . . will inspire and uplift all who are able to appre-
hend it." The Occult Review, London.
"It Is always a pleasure to receive a new book for review from Dr.
and Mrs. F. Homer Curtiss, for the reason that their writings are al-
ways direct and to the point, andwhat is of the greatest usefulness In
this rather Inchoate fieldsimple and very readable.... The partjcu-
hr value of this volume .. . is the consistent and Intelligent reference
to scientific authorities and modern points of view.... Dr. and Mrs.
Curtiss greatly excel In the symbolical or allegorical school of Bible
Interpretation." Marc Edmund Jones, Editor, The Sabian Philosophy.
Comprehensive index br students. Second Edition. Price, 259
"The Curtiu Books" expotmd a Cosmic philosophy.
COMING WORLD CHANGES
A rational swnrnary of the many recent prophecies as to
world cataclysms, the value of such prophecies, and the
scientific and philosophic principles underlying such cyclic
changes in the earth's surface.
Not a pessimistic, hopeless and fear-producing volume,
but presenting the underlying principles of the changes, and
a definite remedy for shortening "the days of tribulation."
chap. IProphecies of Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle and
many others.
chap. IL.Geologlcal Consider-
ations the scientific aspect.
Chap. IlLThe Philosophy of
Planetary Changes such as
sank Atlantis, etc.
Chap. IVThe King of the
World and the predicted
Asiatic invasion of Europe.
Chap. VThe Heart of the
World. The relation of
America to world condi-
tions.
chap. VLThe Battle of Ar-
inageddon. Psychic fac-
tors in the World War
Chap. V!LThe Remedy.
Based on icientific psycho..
logical principles.
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are noted internationally for the
profound scholarship with which they have studied the prob-
lems of ancient and modern mysticism.. . . The fact that
they predicted the World War, in a volume published two
years before the assassination at Serajevo, lends special value
to their dream of the approaching new era.. . ."
National Pictorial Monthly, New York.
If you wish to understand the finer forces operating back
of present-day conditions you need this remarkable volume.
Countless fulfillments of its propheciesexceptional earth-
quakes, floods, droughts, famines, etc.have occurred since
its first edition.
Third EdIHo*. Art Boardr. Piici $1.10 poit pauL
"The Curtiss Books" expound the laws of future events
COMING WORLD CHANGES
APPRECIATIONS
"For many years now 'The Curtiss Books' have been welcomed
by all earnest and devout seekers of wisdom; and this volume is of
special value in the present World Crisis. There are many books
written . . . on these great changes . . . but few arc of equal value
to this one" The Rally (London).
"Like all the other 'Curtiss Books5' this is a deep and scholarly con-
sideration of the subject.. . . An .mjortant book . . . and we hope
that each of our readers will secure a copy." The Aquarta,i Age
(Santa Barbara).
"In view of present tendencies it strikes a startlingly confirmatory
note.. .. Is it merely a coincidence that seismic and meteorological
disturbances of all kinds are now becoming so frequent and severe?
Needless to say that we consider the course indicated is one
which is worthy of every cnnm.nlation, and that me can heartily
recommend it" From a four-page editorial review in The OccvJS
Review (London).
"Even when read with certain reservations as to possibility and
probability, one cannot but grasp the deep spirituality of the messages,
and to be assured of the earnest and sincere motives back of the
writing." Washington Post (D.C.).
"The book is well written and dear; and much credibility is lent
to the prophecies by statements of geological changes already in
progress. . . . The book handles the spiritual side of coming world
changes as saliently as it does the physical, with a beautiful short
chapter at the end called 'The Remedy." Theosopisical Messenger
(Chicago).
"Full of deep spirituality." Hall Evening News (England).
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are exceptionally gifted writers in their
peculiar fielda field of Oriental mysticism lighted by a Western aim.
Coming World Changes is a remarkably interesting volume." Ghost
Stories (New York).
"The work done by Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss, as set forth in this little
book deserves recognition from all fellow-workers." Canadian The-
osophist (Toronto).
"Any addition to 'The Curtiss Books' is very welcome in the library
of the occultist because of the unusually sincere and constructive us-
tureoftheworkcarriedonbythedoctorandhiswife!' TheMes-
sage (Los Angeles).
'With the advent of each new 'Curtiss Book! we reasonably cxpect
further researches into truth, and isv are not ds.rappoi,ded.
Much spiritual pabulum is developed in their new book which we
take pleasure in commending." Mercury (New York).
Dr. F. Homer Curtiss and his brilliant wife, joint authors of a
number of famous books on philosophy, believe a remarkable change
is impending.... They have dared to prophesy.National Pictorial
Monthly (New York).
"The Curtiss Books" Solve Sex Problems Normally
LETTERS from the TEACHER
These letters from the Teacher of The Order of Christian Mystics,
in answer to questions coming from earnest and intelligent students
all over the world, touch just the practical questions that arise in
the daily lives of all who are strivmg to live the higher life.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Volume I
Spiritual Growth and De-
velopment.
The Masters of Wisdom
and Their Work.
Conoerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
Prayer and Its Results.
The Astral Plane.
Psychic Phenomena.
Dreams and Visions.
VIIL Health and Disease.
IL The Sex Problem.
X. Miscellaneous.
Each volume contains en-
tirely different letters covering
different phases of the subject
mentioned in the other volume.
Volume II
Health and Disease.
Psychic Conditions.
IlL The Law of Karma.
Coming World Changes.
Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
IlL After Death Conditions.
Prayer and Its Results.
Health and Disease.
IL Financial Problems.
Reincarnation.
The Sex Problem.
Marriage and Divorce.
Discouragement
Jesus and The Christ.
Miscellaneous.
Volume L Sixth Edition Price $2.00.
Volume II. Second Edition Price $2.00.
"The Curtiss Books" explain the problems of daily life
LETTERS from the TEACHER
APPRECIATIONS
"Among the many occult volumes before the publi; aiming to assist
students who desire earnestly to master lower appetites and devote
themselves seriously and successfully to the culture of true spirituality,
I know of none more useful and admirable than the work now be-
fore ine."W. I. Colville.
"Many Biblical and other problems are handled clearly and con-
vincingly in a manner that shows the instructor to be one sure of
the position taken, desirous of imparting helpful knowledge to all
earnest inquirers, at the same time leaving all students in full mental
liberty.Mystic Light Library Bulletin.
"Another interesting contribution to the department of occult
science."Portland Oregonian.
"The letters of advice, of which this book is nearly full, bear every
mark of culture, of sincerity, and of a lofty thought.".Son Francisco
Argonaut.
"The book is pervaded with the spirit of loving service Every
question receives a clear and careful answer which must have satisle4
the inquirer."Anzerican TheosophLrt.
"There is no subject in the book that is not treated in a mmnuer
so interesting that it is hard to lay it down, but when the chapter on
The Sex Problem is reached there is found some strong food for a
strong man with a strong mind. The tone of the whole subject is
Purity. It is the sort of a book the student wants for reference."-
edwards Paul Jones.
"Its warnings against the dangers of psychisni, and its frank and
rational discussion of the sex question . . . are to be commended."
Editor 0. E. S. Critic.
"The beautiful truths expressed in beautiful diction cannot help
but appeal to the soul which is seeking the higher things of life."
Unity.
"I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for the comfort
that has come to me through your Letters from the Teacher. I felt
the moment the book came into my hands like one who had come
home at lastto a wonderful home for which one had been long and
earnestly seeking and praying and longing. ... When one comes into
the realization of one s dearest dreams, knowledge is instantaneous
there is no doubt."M. C.
"I find your books the most helpful I have ever read. They are so
liveable and meet the wants of life. Words are so inadequate to ex-
press my gratitude."Mrs. E. H. G.
Vol. II, New letters covering other subjects, including special chaf)-
ters on Sex, Marriage and Divorce, Financial Problems, the Christ
and the comnsg World Teacher. etc.
"The Curtiss Books" Are Exhaustless Wells of Vascinating Material
Newt Just outl in June of 1935. Another large volume. The
Authors' latest work. A companion to THE VOICE OP ISIS and
THE MESSAGE OP AQUARIA.
THE INNER RADIANCE
Forty splendid chapters covering almost every phase of the mystic
life, occultism and spiritual philosophy, from the stock market col-
lapse and the depression, and the remedy, to the zodiac, the eleinentals,
divine fire, redemption, King Arthur and his knights, King Desire, and
the Christ Star.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Inner Radiance: that mysterious power which pushes all things
on to perfection. The God Man: God in the process of manifestation
in man. As in the Days of Noah: planets returning to similar rela-
tions and producing similar conditions today. How to master thent
Spiritual Co-operation: a law of the universe. Man and the Zodiac:
how the 12 signs are represented in man. The Lord from Heaven:
bow the spiritual man descends into the human. The Soul Language:
the inner language f spiritual consciousness. Tran.iimgration: the
doctrine, the atoms. Not reincarnation. Cosmic Causes of World
Conditions and the Remedy: Cosmic and Karmic factors, Dr. Curtiss'
lecture before the Chamber of Conunerce. The Mystic Rose: why a
symbol of Divine Love. The Great and the Small: all things are rela-
tive. The Lord, of Karma: the events of life neither fate nor pun.
ishment but opportunities. Redemption: the esoteric doctrine. Why
necessary. Reliance: of the outer upon the inner. The Great Work:
the mystery of spiritual alchemy. King Desire: his meaning and
mastery. The Mystery of the Elements: the conscious forces back of
Nature. Hymn to the Elements. Man and the ElementaLr: role of the
Gnomes, Undines, Sylphs and Salanianders. The Realm of Be-nw:
the mystery of Being irons non-being. Saturn and Cyclic Law: role
of Saturn as tester and Initiator. God, Man and the Planet: their re-
lation. The Book of Remembrance. The Third Eye: functions of
the pineal gland. The Mount of Attainment: the end of the Path.
The Rowdd Table: symbology of King Arthur and his knights. Di-
vine Fire: fire of life, of mind. Cosmic fire. The Glory of the Lord:
how recognized and contacted. Lessons by the Way: the ancient con-
tinents. Lesson of the sage-brush. Nature's synibology. The King of
Glory: where and how he reigns. The Chrict Star: the shepherds
and the Wise Men. The five points. Preparation: for the Second
OflhIflg
Second Edition with full index Price $2.50.
Order all of "The Curtiss Books" direct from
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
3510 Quebec St N. W. Washington, D. C.
"The Curtlu Books" Are Life-long llrlends
APPRECIATIONS
"The majority of the forty chapters which comprise this work con-
cern the revolutionary changes through which humanity is now pass-
ing, and their spirtuaily erudite contents should do muck to allay fears
which tend to flood the mind through Jack of knowledge.... Of
whatever they treat. .. the authors are nothing if not supremely
lielpfid. As Christian mystics who work strenuously for the dimina-
tion of greater spiritual knowledge among all races and creeds, Dr and
Mrs. Curtiss write with wide knoidedge and experience, and their view-
points and suggestions should prove both interesting and encouraging to
those who view with apprehension the religious, social and political
upheavals which would appear to some to be the visible signs of an
angry Deity's vengeance.Occult Review, London.
Uj have enjoyed all of your books so much that somehov any other
literature has lost its value for me. I am quite satisfied to read and
enjoy it, as it is so constructive, loving and jrue."Mrs. S. H. W1
Indianapolis.
"This is the 18th volume of 'The Curtiss Books' and measures up to
the best teaching put out by the well known authors.... The forty
chapters include several chapters dealing with present-day conditions in
the world.... The book helps one to better understand from the
spiritual standpoint, the revolutionary changes through which humanity
is now passing."The Aquarian Age.
"There is no need for ignorance in the world today.... The Inner
Radiance brings into one's consciousness the Why? of all questions,
and their answers! It Is food which if earnestly partaken of by the
student will result in good digestion."Mrs. M. B. W., Washington.
"This is the latest of the numerous publications of Dr. nat Mrs.
Curtiss . . . the purpose of which is to make religion a practical and
vital aid in the conduct of life. Its membership ranges over some 70
foreign countries and is united only by specific hours of devotion and
intercession."Sptingflcld Union and Republican.
'Permit me to add ray tribute of praise to the great volume you no
doubt have received from the production of The Inner Radiance. It
is a fit companion to the other 'Curtiss Books,' and I believe shows
a deeper spiritual insight than possibly Its predecessors.... I will
not rest until I can successfully correlate with the true Inner
Mr. H. S., Toronto.
"It Is a continuation of the inspiring and practical teachings to be
found in the long series of volumes issued by the authors; which com-
bine a firm adherence and interpretation of our Bible truths with a
deep and extensive knowledge of the esoteric teuMng, of nnt
modern times. It is couched in plain, htfeThgible language, and its aba
is to be of service to all who are on the upward Path, and are in need
of counsel and encouragement in the difficult and crucial period through
which we are passing.... Many most abstruse subjects are discussed
with utmost simplicity and fr*n1rw."_The Rally, London.
The Nineteenth Volume of "The Curtiss Books"
HEALTH HINTS
This is not a large elaborate volume filled with dry statistics and
long-winded discussions and theories about health, but a vitally inter-
esting and practical summary of our teachings on the importance of
health of body, mind and spirit, and how to retain or regain it.
It contains the essence of my many years of medical experience,
together with our highest mystical teachings as to the health of the
inner as well as the outer man. It therefore deals with the effect
upon your health of the thoughts, emotions and psychic influences to
which you respond, as well as the physical factors.
It contains the essence of the most advanced metaphysical teaching
on bathing, breathing, exercise, thought-control, and physical, mental,
psychic, prayer, faith and spiritual healing. All boiled down into
twelve chapters paciced with definite laws, rules and directions. AU
expressed in simple, non-technical language.
Contains the exact routine to eliminate most chronic disorders, as
well as explicit instructions as to just what to do in acute attacks. This
may save the life of your child, yourself or your family.
Each chapter gives the essence of whole, expensive courses on each
subject. Just what you have long been waiting for. Study carefully
the table of contents and see if you can afford to be without it.
Price $1.50 postpaid.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction. The body an instrument. What is health? Uses of
pain, of prayer. Natural immunity to all diseases, how attained.
Restoration to health.
Chapter I. Mechanical Factors in Health. Structural defects. Spinal
adjustments, bathing, etc.
Chapter II. Breathing. Science of breath. Occult uses of breath, etc.
Chapter III. Constipation. Reasons for. Mechanism of. Cure of.
Chapter IV. Acute Duorders. Appendicitis cured hi a few hours.
Chapter V. Food in General. Compatible combinations etc.
Chapter VI. Compatibility of Foods. Rules for combinations.
Chapter VII. Cooking. Best methods. Raw foods.
Chapter VIII. Various Suggestions. Insomnia. Alcohol. Tobacco,
Vaccination. Serums.
Chapter IX. Mental Influences. Origin of thought. Mental health.
Chapter X. Emotions. Effect of joy, happiness, prayer, aspiration.
Chapter XI. Spiritual Influences. Invisible helpers. Healing Prayer.
Chapter XII. Menus and Statistics. How to choose, properly com-
bine, cook and serve foods.
Price $1.50 postpaid.
THE CtJRTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
3510 Quebec Street, N. W. Washington, D. C.
APPRECIATIONS
"This boolç as the name implies, contains Health Hints for the
purification of the body, mind and emotions, and is one of the best books
we have ever seen on the maintenance of health from all standpoints.
It has invaluable chapters on Breathing, baths of various kinds, a
very comprehensive chapter on Constipation and its cure; helps in
acute diseases, and some valuable advice in regard to foods, with
suggested menus of correct diet. The author is an M. D. as well as
a nationally known teacher and lecturer along spiritual lines, and he
therefore includes most interesting chapters on the mental, emotional
and spiritual influences which play so vital a part in the health of the
individual. The book is one of the most interesting and comprehensive
of the hundreds we have seen on the subject of health. It is well
indexed, and will be an asset in any family because of its many valuable
suggestions." Editor, The Aquarian Age.
"This is the nineteenth volume of the famous Curtis: Books, which
have afforded such an inexhaustible store of Ancient Wisdom and
Mystic Truth for the past thirty years. The present volume. . . gives
forth the results of his many years medical experience as applied to
the inner, as well as the outer man. Valuable suggestions and direc-
tions are given on Breathing, Food and Exercises, both physical and
spiritual. The last chapter is devoted to Spiritual Influences, and the
various methods of Healing, concluding with an earnest desire that
the following of the teachings given may be a source of purification,
understanding health, harmony and happiness to the reader." Editor,
The Rally, London.
"As an inspiration as well as an instruction to all physical sufferers,
it would be difficult to find advice and hope so evenly balanced with
sound authority, as is found in the recent book Health Hints by Dr. F.
Homer Curtiss. The chapter on Constipation defines, in the opinion of
this writer, the plain, simple and fundamental cause underlying the
common diseases to which the flesh is heir. So important . . . do we
deem this chapter that we quote it in its entirety, with the untinctured
recommendation of the whole book as being the best document on the
subject health yet to appear for lay readers. No sufferer or nonsufferer
can read this book in vain." Starr Daily, Author of Love Can Open
Prison Doors, etc.
From New Zealand: "I have received my copy of Health Hints and
I find it invaluable. Am already greatly improved by following its
practical directions. it is a book that should be in every home."
Mrs. J. W.
Two other important books now published by us
THE SEVENTH SEAL
By JEANETTE AGNES (A student of the O.C. M.)
Introduction. Chapters on What shall we soy of matter? Erroneous
concepts and the correct. The Lost Word. Esoteric symbolism of Je-
hovah. "Things which have been kept secret from the foundation of
the world." Symbolism of the ark, Cherubims, altar, censer. "From
the beginning of the creation God made them male and female."
Search the Scriptures. "To the pure all things are pure." Key to the
interpretation of the Old Testament. Covenant with Levi. "Go In
unto the veil." The Fire of the Lord. Creation among the lower
forms. Masculine and fnhiine aspects of the Soul. Action of Spirit
on matter. Woman must be allowed the Initiative. Sex not a weakness
of the flesh; not an end in itself. Control of appetites and desires.
A glance at fundamentals. "The coming of the Kingdom of Heaven
on earth must be through the spiritually developed individual." The
Way of Attainment. The Law of Love. The bidden wisdom. Warn-
ings and safe-guards.
"The best exposition of the doctrine of complementary Spiritual
Mates, and that the sex relation is far more than mere animal pro-
creation. Ample biblical quotations are given in confirmation. Spirit.
ualizes the whole subject of sex. In harmony with the Teachings of thç
0. C. M. and The Curtiss Book.c.' Dr. Curtus.
"You have put the entire matter on a high and spiritual plane, and
no reader can miss your meaning." Rev. J. Herman Randall, New
York City. Price 1.00 postpaid.
TOWARDS THE LIGHT
By PRINCESS MARY KARADJA
Founder of The White Cross Union. Author of King Solomon, The
Seven Sacraments, etc.
The fate and redemption of a suicide told in inspiring blank verse.
"A noble message from the Great Beyond." Pall Mall Gazette.
"This poem is a powerful meditation on the theme: 'Whatsoever a
man sows that shall he reap.'" Aberdeen Daily Journal.
"The story is told in dramatic and moving language. There ii a
chain of circumstances powerfully described." Light.
'Will appeal to the general reader as well as to the Metaphysician."
Glasgow Times.
"Her Majesty Queen Alexandra has graciously Infmted her pleasure
In accepting a presentation copy." Light.
King Oscar of Sweden read it aloud at a reception in 1901.
Mr. Stanford of California presented 500 copies to the free libraries
of Australia. Swedish, Danish, Dutch, Finnish and German 1ithm
have appeared in addition to the English edition.
To the Author's knowledge this poem has saved at least jfteen per.
sons from suidda. Price ;o j'ostpakL
The following are three new volumes of the handy "Gem. Series."
PRAYERS
of
THE ORDER OF CHRISTIAN MYSTICS
A long felt want finally filled. A collection of inspired and in-
spiring prayers for all occasions and for every need and mood.
Published in small, handy form convenient for the pocket or hand-bag,
and accessible at all times.
By its regular use all aspirants may experience the manifold bless-
ings and joys, the protection and comfort of the spiritual forces
which these mystical prayers actually invoke.
Indexed. New fabrihoid binding, 50 cents; Real leather, $1.00
THE MYSTIC LIFE
An introduction to mysticism and a dear exposition of its meaning,
its scope and its importance in the daily hfe. Just the thing to place
in the hands of one who is beginning to aspire and think for himself.
Contains chapters on How Mysticism Solves the World's Prob-
lems. The Path of Discipleslup. Illumination. The Mystic Christ
Recommendations for Daily Living. Full information for gathering
small groups of those interested to form study-classes for mutual
belp understanding and fellowship.
Indexed. New fabrikoid binding, 50 cents; Real leather, $1.00
THE LOVE OF RABIACCA
A Tragedy In Five Acts
A thrilling tale of a pee-historic race, recovered psychically by the
Authors.
Acr L The Battlements of the City.
Acv IL The Shrine on the Monfniitt
Acr III. The Crypt Beneath the Temple.
Acr IV. The Love Thilter.
Acr V. Some i. The Rite of Naked Sword.
Scene iL The Flaming Pyre1 and the Prophecy.
New fabrikoid binding, 50 cents; Real leather, $100
"The Curtisa Books" Blaze the Trail for the New Age
The GEM SERIES of BOOKLETS
Ideal Gifts at Any Season. Handy Pocket SIm.
GEMS OF MYSTICISM
Inspiring passages selected from the writings of Dr. and Mrs. Curds..
Gives best simple insight into Mysticsm.
I. Spiritual Growth. IL Duty. IlL Karma. IV. Reincarnation.
v. The Christ. VI. Mast» of Wisdom. VIL Miscellaneous.
"One might wade through the religious philosopbizings of every people
and place and not receive the Inspiration one will get out of a ten-
minute perusal of this little book."Baltiniore American.
Fifth Edition. Art Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $100
THE SOUNDLESS SOUND
A Prose Poem of Devotion and Meditation
"Whatever one's creed, e*zy soul can eat and drink of a book full of
loving helpfulness, that comes as unpretentious as a song-sparrow, as
quiet as a hidden spring, as soft as an odor-laden zephyr, with song, re-
freshment and delight."George Wharton James, Editor "Out Wed"
Fourth An Edition. Paper, 50 Cents; Linsp Leather, $1.00
THE TEMPLE OP SILENCE
The most Inspiring treatise on Me'Uttinn and entering the Sil..».
Practical working directions given.
The Great SilenceEntering the Silencethe Noon Silence Service.
Thkd Edition Art Paper, 50 Cents; limp Leather, $1.00
German Edition. Paper 75 centt,
THE DIVINE MOTHER
The latest and most beautiful gem of the series.
The Divine Motherthe Bringer Podhthe Mish%bt Prayerthe
Waters of Lifethe Comforter.
Third Edition. Art Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $1.00
Send for Descriptive Catalog of The Crvtlss Books
Order "The Curtis. Books" Direct from
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOR CO.
$te-QL1. 6imatN-W, wi u. e
NEW ADDRESS
P.O. BOX 336, SANTA BAEBARA, CALIF.
