{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__chambers___opal_matrix.pdf","mytitle":"Opal Matrix","mylang":"de"}
THE
Opal <J)(Catrix
BY
<W.
Jerome Qhambers
The Salisbury Jfill Tress
ACHILLE J. ST. ONGE
Worcester, Massachusetts
Copyright, 1937, by
W. Jerome Chambers
All rights reserved in all countries including
the rights of translations into all languages
including Scandinavian.
Published May 1937
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BY THE VAIL-BALLOU PRESS, INC., BINGHAMTON, N. Y.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
ARCHIVES
Accession
No.
i J J I 7
AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED
To
KARL D. CHAMBERS
Engineer and student, whose genial personality
and brilliant mind was ever a source of sat
isfaction and of education to his friends
and his associates. As sunshine dis
penses light— so his intellect radi
ated intelligence, and his pres
ence engendered reciprocal
good will, and intelligent
companionship.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
I Reality of the Invisible i
II The Pattern of Human Destiny .... 14
III Cooper Takes a New Contract 26
IV The Hidden Valley 27
V An Unexpected Meeting
52
VI Jimsie's Engagement Ring 56
VII Barbara's Cross Examination 75
VIII The Ring of the Metal 79
IX The Convict 85
X The Prisoner's Story 93
XI A Friend of the Prisoner 102
XII The Coming of Deamati 113
XIII Godfrey Ranier Meets a New Idea . . . .123
XIV Godfrey Gets a Vision 139
XV The Evolution of an Atom 146
XVI Hypnotic Evidence 156
XVII A Vision of Law 169
v
vi CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
XVIII Descent Invisible 174
XIX Occult Knowledge Solves Crime . . . .181
XX Gleams of Ancient Wisdom 199
XXI A Verdict by Suggestion
205
XXII Live Expectantly 214
XXIII A Letter from India 221
XXIV The Vapor Trap 231
XXV Destiny Moves Another Step 237
I
REALITY OF THE INVISIBLE
ON
A busy corner of a city in northern India, two
old college chums came face to face. Their sur
prise at the unexpected and sudden meeting was unmis
takable. An abrupt halt as each tried to realize the
astonishing fact.
"Why, George Cooper!" exclaimed the splendid look
ing bronzed American, extending his hand, "I would as
soon have expected to meet the President of Old Yale as
you in this quarter of the globe."
"Well, Grayle," replied the other, as he grasped the
extended hand, "I have a valid excuse for being here
which can all be told in a dozen words. You know when
we graduated I connected up with Bailey's engineering
outfit and went at once into intensive training. But that
can wait. Come where we can have a quiet talk."
He guided his friend through oriental confusion and,
after a short walk and many turns, entered an ornate
bazaar, passed rugs, jars and statues to some low seats.
Cooper clapped his hands and a servant promptly sup
plied a taboret, glasses, and a pitcher of refreshing drink.
George poured glasses of iced beverage and resumed.
"Bailey's reputation and ability never lacks contracts,
so when he turned down some English orders for India,
2 THE OPAL MATRIX
they put the job up to me and I accepted. Well, that re
quired nearly two years. Then an Indian Prince gave me
another job up toward Darjeeling. We completed that
order several months ago."
He paused abruptly in his explanation and held a
glass of amber liquid toward the light.
Grayle turned a slow glance of inquiry toward his
friend.
"Well, why your delay of separation from Broadway
and Eighty-eighth Street?"
"Grayle —that is the question I have asked myself
dozens of times during the past month. The mystery of
this country gets into your blood. You simply can't put
it into words. There are many subjects for intellectual
research which our curriculum simply does not know
exist. Grayle, what would you say should I tell you
that I made a day's journey to meet you here in this
city? She did not know your name, but she described
you so minutely there was no mistaking the personality
meant. I wanted to verify her assurance that you were
here, in this city, and that we would meet. All this
aside from a desire to see you, old man, if you really
were in this quarter of the globe. But I acknowledge
that it took some nerve to make a trip like that on the
mere assertion of a woman that 'you will meet an old
friend, a school friend.' Yes, it took some nerve and
considerable faith. After what she told me of my past
history and future destiny, I could not doubt. And this
was an opportunity to verify her prediction, as I did not
know you were on this continent."
Grayle studied his friend quietly before replying.
REALITY OF THE INVISIBLE
"Yes, they are rather uncanny and puzzling. I have
had some experience myself. But tell me, was she a pro
fessional mystery retailer?"
"Oh, no, she was more like an interested friend. You
couldn't give her money. The Prince who gave me the
contract up here, which I mentioned, is an Oxford man,
educated in western ideals. He was interested in my
work and was no end of help in getting us needed
workmen and material. A fine man, about our age. I
saw considerable of him and one day we had made a
long trip to secure a certain quality of timber for piling,
etc., and to confirm some statement he had made; he said
he would take me to an interesting woman who would
illustrate the point of his conversation. That is how
I met her. But, Grayle —the strange fact is that she
seemed more interested in you than in my rather un
eventful life. She said, 'Your friend whom you will meet
is coming to the end of his present trend of life; he is
coming into new interests.' Grayle, I want you to meet
this personality, so different from anyone I ever met,
dreamed of, or read about."
"Well, George," replied Grayle, with a restful yawn,
"I am so glad to see you, someone from home with a
Yale vocabulary, that I will get a real pleasure in falling
in with anything you propose. I, as the pet political
phrase goes, place myself absolutely in the hands of my
friends. I will investigate anything which you are in
terested in, even to seeing a fortune teller."
"Done," agreed Cooper. "The curriculum of Yale
fails to embrace some important subjects and you are
going to get some new grooves in your gray matter."
4 THE OPAL MATRIX
A few days later, after the friends had accumulated
their various articles of baggage in their comfortable
lodgings, Cooper wrote a note, which he handed to
Grayle. It read:
When may I have the pleasure of renewing the
subject of our conversation we had some days ago ?
George Cooper,
Engineer.
Grayle raised his eyebrows inquiringly. "And she
reads English?" he inquired.
"You noticed, Grayle, that I asked for an engagement
for myself. I did not mention you, so I am curious to
know just what her answer will be."
"Oh, I see," returned Franz. "You want to know if her
knowledge embraces the fact of your accompanying
visitor."
"Exactly," confirmed Cooper, and he dispatched the
note.
An hour later the boy returned with an answer. As
he turned away with a generous tip, George looked with
approval at the neatly addressed envelope, handed it to
Franz for inspection with the remark, "Of course you
are going with me, whatever the answer. Let's have it."
He extracted a long, slender paper knife from the
region of his vest pocket, opened the letter, and the
heads of the two friends were near together as they read:
Dear Mr. Engineer: (which designation you seem
to prefer). You may call about eight this evening,
REALITY OF THE INVISIBLE 5
accompanied by your interesting, roving friend,
whom you had the faith to meet, which exhibition
of faith will result in far more satisfactory happi
ness than you, at present, can comprehend.
Deamati Korali.
"Well!" ejaculated Franz, as the two friends surveyed
each other in surprise, "Educated, intelligent and mys
terious—the three elements of charm. Why, it assumes
the nature of an interesting adventure."
The note had been delivered in early afternoon and
George noticed with satisfaction that his friend was ani
mated and alert. He talked over college days and pranks,
related episodes of his travels and his years of rather
aimless wandering, and as the shadows lengthened into
twilight, he bathed, dressed, and carefully selected a
harmoniously colored tie.
At the appointed hour they were admitted by an old
woman, with a keen, shrewd face, who by her courteous
manner, evidently expected callers. They followed her
through a half-lighted hall. A door opened and dis
closed a large, well-lighted room, oriental in furnishings,
floors carpeted in rich-colored rugs, walls paneled in
dark wood, furniture in carved wood. These were the
first noticeable objects to attract the eye, which quickly
traveled to the further side of the room, then centered
on a woman standing facing her guests.
"A most unusual character," was Grayle's mental
comment, as he saw her gipsy-like face and black eyes.
Her outstretched hand and slightly raised chin pro
claimed a welcome. She bowed to Cooper and gave an
6 THE OPAL MATRIX
appraising glance at Grayle from head to foot, as she
said, with the air of a Queen dispensing favors, "This
is a pleasure," motioning them to seats, low-draped
couch affairs, grouped for social ease of conversation.
She turned to Cooper. "So you met your friend, and
he is looking, as the English say, quite fit."
"He improves each year he lives," acknowledged
Cooper, "but you must know this friend of mine, Franz
Grayle."
She beamed merriment as she replied, "Long may he
live as a model for emulation! Could the women catch
the habit of looking better each year —"
and her open
hands expressed what words failed to convey.
"First," she said, clapping her hands, "we shall have
some English tea, then we shall talk. Mr. Franz," she
said, as she poured the tea which the old woman had
brought in, "I did not give your friend time to introduce
me. I am Deamati Korali, at your service."
"A pleasure," returned Franz, with a bow. "I trust our
friendship may grow through association."
She replied with a quizzical look, "I was assured of
that before I met you."
"What —you say before you met me?"
She nodded her head. "Oh, yes, I know you quite well.
I know of your travels and experience. Mr. Cooper,
how many lumps of sugar will you have in your Eng
lish tea?"
Franz passed a hand over his puzzled brow and cast
an inquiring look at Cooper, who was formulating in
his mind the drift he desired in the conversation. Dea
mati sipped tea and waited for the adjustment of ideas.
REALITY OF THE INVISIBLE
Finally Cooper asked, "Deamati, would you mind
answering a very frank question ? I did not admit at the
time how perfectly you described events and incidents
in my past life. I was rather stunned by such accuracy.
I want to ask, by what process—what source of infor
mation could acquaint you with the knowledge that I
should meet Franz fifty miles from here, in a strange
city?"
She gave Franz an inquiring, meaning look before
answering.
"All the mysteries of the universe might become clear
and simple through explanation. It requires a long time
to evolve the placidity of perception necessary to solve
those mysteries. It requires a clarity of vision and a
trained will."
She looked at Franz. "Do you, too, ask the source of
my knowledge of your wanderings and where you two
should meet, and how your present trend of life will
change?"
Franz bowed his head. "Very much should I like to
know," he answered, leaning forward in an expectant
attitude.
"Long years ago," she began, "in your country, you
loved a girl with golden hair, brown eyes, and a fair
face. A tragedy, and she slipped out of your life into the
ether world and you became a wanderer. You felt your
self responsible for that tragedy and you ran away from
life, environment, and all the responsibilities of that en
vironment. Did it ever occur to you that the cloud which
you allowed to settle over your life cast a shadow over
the life of that fair girl ?"
8 THE OPAL MATRIX
Franz seemed stunned. He gazed at Deamati, trying
to grasp her amazing statement. At last he said, "And
you could dig up that buried past, pry into the hidden
secrets of a man's heart, and I thought only my friend
here, in all the world, knew the details of that sad
story."
She answered, "My friend, a surgeon may save a life
by digging out an infection, and a man may be harmo
nized to life and constructive activity by digging up his
buried memories and submitting them to the purifying
rays of reason."
She paused, studying Franz, and continued, "And
you think I pried into your buried secrets, before I knew
that you existed? Oh, no! That was all revealed to me
by the fair girl herself. Sidra Sing brought your friend
to me, like many another man with honest brains, ripe
to break through the crust of dead traditions and learn
something of the existing laws of life. And because he
was a friend of this girl, whom you regard as dead, she,
too, came. She recognized the opportunity of utilizing
my power of transmission to lift the benumbing cloud
from your life. Oh, no!" she affirmed. "There is nothing
hidden from the residents of the ether sphere. They
know the transmission stations, and your proximity was
her opportunity to convey her message."
She turned to Cooper, "Is the mystery explained of
my being able to direct you to meet your friend ?"
"Partially," agreed Cooper. "Did she prompt you re
garding the history of my life ?"
"Oh, no," she replied, with an indulgent smile, "that
was entirely different. Each person carries his own per
REALITY OF THE INVISIBLE 9
sonal history, but his personal presence is necessary for
the reading. Then there is another force—but you can
not be told of that. You could not understand. Primary
knowledge first."
Franz' concentrated look at Deamati hardened. "Do
you expect me to believe that 'this fair girl' as you term
her, is not dead, that she could possibly know of the
bitterness in my life caused by her tragic end —could
know of the censure I place against myself for inex
cusable action which caused the tragedy ?"
Deamati looked searchingly at Franz, and as she
looked she understood the wound which wanderlust
had failed to cure. Her face softened, and in a tone of
sympathy, "My friend, it was a wise Providence that
sent you to me, to learn something of the laws of life.
Do you understand? I said 'laws of life'—there is no
death. When one steps out of the physical sheath into
the ether realm, he finds a region of life, freedom, activ
ity. A glorious freedom, colored and conditioned by his
earth's life, desires, aspirations, and affinities. There they
work out all the kaleidoscopic reactions of their earth's
contacts. It can't well be put into words to fit your non-
educated understanding, but you must know that all
the objective contacts of life are the material for the
kaleidoscopic reactions in the ethereal. It is difficult to
explain. A pauperized life here, devoid of educational
contacts, means an impoverished heaven. Life, purpose
ful life, is for educational contacts. From contacts one
derives experience, and continued experience forms
character and builds the foundation for the etheric en
vironment. Can't you see that the life in the ethereal
10 THE OPAL MATRIX
realms must be the superstructure of the same quality as
the foundations built here?"
"Yes," said Franz, with a concentrated look, trying to
comprehend the problem, "I would like to believe such
a beautiful theory built on faith and imagination."
"No," she cut in, with some impatience at his stupid
ity, "my knowledge is not built on faith nor imagina
tion, nor ancient mythology twisted into a religious sys
tem, nor belief in a book revamped from parables into a
code of government. My knowledge is based on actual
perception, personal experience, and proved knowledge
of laws regulating life."
She clapped her hands and the old woman appeared,
received some orders and vanished. She shortly returned
with a younger companion who conversed in low tones
with Deamati, then crossed the room to a shaded corner
and took a low chair. Deamati followed. She placed one
hand on the woman's head, the other over her eyes.
Perhaps two minutes passed; Deamati returned to her
seat while the woman appeared to be in a deep sleep.
Deamati turned to the expectant men. "You are about
to see a resident of the ether realm clothe itself in the
borrowed emanation of the sleeping woman. This is to
demonstrate to you through actual perception, so that
you may understand something of the laws of life di
vorced from its earthly body, and that you may more
readily comprehend you must remember that there are
sounds which the human ear cannot hear, there are
colors which cannot register on the limited keyboard of
all human eyes, and the etheric forms of celestial resi
REALITY OF THE INVISIBLE u
dents are invisible to ordinary human sight, until clothed
in the lower vibratory matter of this plane."
She turned her attention to the sleeping woman, half
hidden by a misty, moving vapor, which seemed to as
sume shape. And presently out of the vapor came a tall,
turbaned Hindu.
He advanced toward Deamati and bowed low. She
asked some questions which he answered and retired
back into the moving vapor. Some minutes passed and
again out of the mist came the figure of a beautiful
young girl, with golden hair, a fair face, large brown
eyes.
Franz gave a start, raised to his feet, exclaiming in a
low voice, "Vera! Vera!"
She came nearer, her eyes centered on Franz, hand half
extended. She paused, lips open as if to speak, then in
a low voice, "Franz, the time has been long. I have tried
to reach you, tried to change the folly of your loyalty to
a dead girl, but"—a smile on her face—"I never died.
I just escaped from the prison house of flesh and I could
not make you know, and your wandering from home
and friends has held me to the effort of your education.
This is a realm of freedom to those not held in bondage
by the sorrow of their friends. The education held in
store for life and action is not lightly exchanged for
sorrow, without great loss of opportunity, and the wise
consigns old friends to the future favor of a distant meet
ing. But trade not the priceless present for the distant
future, and retain old friends in memory dear and
pleasant."
12 THE OPAL MATRIX
Suddenly she waved adieu, smiled, and melted into
the invisible.
Deamati hastened to the sleeping woman, who was
moving restlessly. She stroked her head and presently
they both returned to the men who were talking over
the wonder.
"As beautiful as ever," declared Cooper, "and details
of features were perfect."
"We must see her again," Franz said to Deamati.
Deamati spoke to her companion, who nodded her
head, whereat Cooper pressed some bills into the wom
an's hands, as she passed out.
Deamati regarded Franz. "Are you satisfied there is
no such thing as death —only a change of environment,
a change of location, and that an ingrowing remorse
and unrest is a grievous error, a retardation to the de
velopment of a departed friend?"
Franz commenced, "I never dreamed, I never
thought —"
She cut in, "Dreams are for sleep, but life is
meant for living and accomplishment, for contacts, for
experience, for the accumulation and the association of
ideas to round out the growth of life."
Then there followed a short conversation and the
friends departed, grateful for a future engagement.
Until late into the night Franz and his friend talked
over the adventure of the evening. A readjustment of
relation to that lost girl seemed to lift a weight from his
life. The loss of her opportunities were compensated
for by a life of freedom and activity, and his new orien
tation of the result of that tragedy— the physical termi
nation of that beautiful, brilliant, charming personality,
REALITY OF THE INVISIBLE
changed from the gloom of a silent grave to the free
regions of a vast realm. Vera had said, the same Vera
whom both friends had known, "A realm of freedom
to those not held in bondage by the sorrow of their
friends." As the realization dispelled the cloud of self-
censure and remorse which had embittered his boyish,
frank nature, George, the next day, rejoiced that he had
regained his optimistic friend of college days.
II
THE PATTERN OF HUMAN DESTINY
TOWARD
evening of a gorgeous day, the two
friends were returning from a long walk. Their
path wound along the edge of a cliff, overlooking a deep
valley. The haze of the distant mountains, the sunshine
and shadow of the tall peaks added a picturesque beauty
to the scene, while turns in the path constantly changed
the view. Suddenly an abrupt turn brought them face
to face with Deamati and a companion.
She greeted them pleasantly and after formal remarks
said, "And you gentlemen have turned your back on a
gorgeous scene which is worth a long journey to enjoy.
Noli and I come here often to feed our senses on color
and grandeur and steep our souls in the peace of the uni
verse which settles over this region at sunset. Come,"
she said, as the men evidenced a desire to realize her
vision, "Mr. Franz is eager to ask questions, and Mr.
Engineer, you may plan a bridge to the Sun when it
rests on the mountain, for there is no telling when that
bridge is complete what you will find at the end of it."
Franz glanced at the gorge, then his eyes traveled to
the distant mountain and he laughed aloud at the ab
surdity of the idea. Deamati cast a triumphant look at
Cooper as she replied, "Oh, that is not the mountain I
M
THE PATTERN OF HUMAN DESTINY 15
mean. That's no place to build a bridge. Just wait until
the act is ready and the curtain goes up."
She turned into a bypath and after a short walk they
emerged into a miniature anteroom, a clear space sur
rounded by dense foliage. Numerous rocks afforded
seats, as though the place was arranged for meetings.
"This," she remarked, as they occupied seats, "is the
theater anteroom. The box we occupy is near by and the
curtain goes up in one hour. What are the questions you
wanted to ask?" turning to Franz.
Franz looked into her eyes, surprised at his feeling of
relationship and nearness to a woman he had known
for a day. He had never met a person for whom he felt
such a close relationship. Her return look of interest in
vited frankness.
"You know," he said, obeying an impulse, "that last
vision of Vera's white face ready for the grave, has been
with me since that tragic day, until last night when she
appeared as in real life and talked to me. Now that I
have seen her, that old life seems like an act of a play.
She is not dead ; she just played that part and my grief
was caused by thinking the play real. It is difficult to
understand that a resident of the other realm, to use
your words, can be near us and yet be invisible."
She answered, "Not when you understand that your
vision is confined to a very limited keyboard of registra
tion. It is extremely limited, and you have not had the
necessary education, nor the training to qualify your
limitation.
"It is difficult to explain the tints of a rainbow to a
blind man, his only basis of realizing the existence of
16 THE OPAL MATRIX
the rainbow is through faith and his imagination. Did
you ever witness a number of people examining spec
trum bands ? And each one pointing its limit of range
according to his perception? And you noticed that
some perceived bars invisible to others ? Well, clairvoy
ant vision sees octaves of vision registration which are
dormant, non-active in other people. I can see and hold
normal conversation with your lost friend, without the
assistance of that cumbersome robe of borrowed emana
tions, which robe was necessary to register on your vi
sion keyboard.
"It is all a question of growth and development and
training. The phenomena are trivial, but the significance
of that experience to your mind is of great importance.
You can never return to that complete oblivion of ideas
regarding that other realm of life since that girl looked
out at you through that veil of nothingness and assured
you that her personality was not confined to the body
she occupied, that it was simply her objectized means
of expressing herself on the physical plane.
"Now another knowledge, another help for the re
adjustment of wrongly conceived ideas. And this im
portant knowledge is the fact that many accidents, as
you call them, are contrived necessities for required re
sults. Do you get that —are contrived necessities for
required results ? Now that statement requires some ex
planation. This physical earth life is the plane of be
ginnings. It is the foundation-building department of
life. Here you make your contacts ; here you acquire the
fundamental basis for your future activities. It is the fac
tory for the manufacture of character. It is the workshop
THE PATTERN OF HUMAN DESTINY 17
for the creation of individuality. And the character of
the life lived on this plane determines the quality of the
reactions in the other realm.
"It is the old story of the reaper and the sower. Sow
grain, reap a harvest. Sow the wind and reap the whirl
wind. But"—she raised an indicating finger —"reaping
the resulting reactions of activities builds the fiber of
character founded on experienced knowledge. Did you
get that —builds the fiber of character founded on per
sonally experienced knowledge.
"Like the building of a palace, each part requires its
specialized material. So the human character requires its
specialized experiences at the appointed time. Each life
has a purpose to accomplish. It has, so to speak, to make
a grade, and when the grade is made, nature is not at a
loss for means to contrive the desired transition to an
advanced grade of activity.
"Earth is not our home, but it furnishes the necessary
schooling, the equipment for our activities there. We
build the foundation here during physical life for the
superstructure in the ethereal realm. We have fifty or a
hundred years in the physical school life to prepare our
equipment for a thousand or more years of existence in
the realms beyond. And here is the crucial fact of it all—
the objective contacts we make with knowledge here,
our built-in capacities, our familiarity with fundamental
constructive knowledge, coupled with integrity of action
and conduct—all these mean adequate equipment for a
satisfactory future. When a man closes his earthly ac
count, the important question is—has he built in the
necessary qualifications, the knowledge, and the. Qharac
:8 THE OPAL MATRIX
ter required to make the higher grade ? In other words,
has he passed—did he qualify, or will he be required to
return to his old grade to relearn those lessons in which
he failed ?
"Life is a kaleidoscopic cryptogram until the faculties
of sense perception can perceive and cognize the inter
relations between physical life and astral existence. Then
there dawns on the mind a conception of the wonder
ful pattern of human destiny which is being woven on
the loom of life."
Suddenly she consulted a tiny watch. "Come," she
said, rising. "The lecture is over and the curtain rises.
We must not be late."
Franz rose reluctantly. "I would rather hear the lec
ture than see a dozen sunsets."
She smiled back at his enthusiasm. "Perhaps you may
have both. The teacher enjoys an interested pupil."
Deamati parted the bushes and disclosed a well-
marked path; perhaps fifty yards brought them to an
other opening which certainly reminded one of a thea
ter box. A fallen tree prevented their approaching too
near the sheer wall of a precipitous gorge. The trees on
each side of the box framed a glorious view of valley,
lake and distance. Just above the distant mountain range
hung the Sun, streaked across with long, fleecy clouds
of gold and red.
"Oh," exclaimed George, with a satisfied enthusiasm,
"this certainly is worth a long trip to behold. Why, it is
like a gorgeous painting in an exquisite frame!"
From a depression in the range below, the rim of the
Sun, just as it touched the mountain, as though a peak
THE PATTERN OF HUMAN DESTINY 19
had been sliced off, leaving a mirror-like surface, there
grew out a wide band of light, like a silver road.
As the light glowed out, like a hidden fire from some
inner place, Deamati turned to Cooper. "There, do you
see where to build that bridge? No one has ever been
over the top of that range to find out what is there, to
learn where that light comes from. That light is a mys
tery."
The Sun went down into the range in a glory of
prismatic colors, and a curtain of gloom spread over the
world.
They all turned involuntarily toward home, as an
audience rises at the lowering of the last curtain.
Franz remarked, as the last glow vanished, "I think
I will find out what is beyond that range."
Deamati gave Cooper a significant look.
Several days later the two friends, drawn by the mys
terious fascination of Deamati and her unusual apart
ments, again called. The atmosphere of the room, with
its odor of sandalwood, impressed one as the residence of
an important personality. Deamati met them as though
they were old friends, meeting by definite appointment
and the conversation drifted with ease and without re
straint to personal interests of the two friends. Deamati's
ease of attitude and remark directed the drift of their
talk. Her attitude was the interest of a friend, but it
measured the caliber of her guests.
Finally she said, "Yes —this meeting is the culmina
tion of many events and the initiation of many future
trends of development. You—both of you—have come
up out of the enfolding bonds of mass opinion and class
20 THE OPAL MATRIX
adhesions, into a mental freedom. A mental freedom
which now awaits, poisedly and expectantly, for some
vital interest to give zest to energy and direction to
attainment.
"It is an enviable position of equilibrium between
the static past and the envisioned future. The world ap
proaches the transition into a new standard of develop
ment. Life and chaotic conditions are now in the
restless period preceding the transition of advanced hu
manity into knowledge.
"For long ages superstition and mythology were the
instruments which lulled the restless life of humanity
into quiet, constructive growth. Later, when mythology
—posing as religion—became a burden to life growth,
commercialism unfolded a banner of promise and
opened a road to mental liberty of procedure. Gradually
commercialism superseded the old standards in im
portance and dominance, and the world is now mar
shaled under the banner of commercialism, which in
directly has promoted the development of intellect,
science, invention, personal initiative and independent
research. And now intellect approaches the border land
of spiritual perception, opposed by all the old static
forces whose interest and continued existence demands
that they maintain the old order, the old traditions, and
the old mythology. Kindergarten attractions to occupy
the minds of adolescent humanity up to intellectual
adulthood.
"All of man's ability of further comprehension of law
has come through concreting progressive ideals. Each
THE PATTERN OF HUMAN DESTINY 21
knowledge built into consciousness is the foundation for
a succeeding knowledge, a larger vision."
She paused and smiled approval at each of the men
and continued:
"You have this day reached a peak of the divide in
your paths of life. Behind you the past with its mistakes,
its errors and its very important education. Before you
lies the envisioned future—love, romance, strife, and
the emotional realities of living. You have also had a
vision of life behind the veil. It is very thin—that veil,
but a wise Providence has placed a film on the eyes of
earth's young students, that they be not disturbed in
their important work of living life, by disturbing visions
of a future condition.
"Life is of vast importance. Your life's activities build
the foundation of your future, and each stone in that
foundation must be perfect and well-built into the struc
ture, or at some future period of time, you will have to
laboriously tear down and reconstruct.
"Another very important knowledge is the law of at
traction. Parents attract to themselves entities as their
children, according to their strata and their standards.
A wise man lives a dominated, directed life and he pre
pares an environment which will attract a great soul as
his child. Such a man guards the unfolding life of that
child, and later he enjoys the privileged association and
the resulting education with a higher evolved entity
which he and his wife attracted to them, through affini-
tization.
"After a man's physical life's activities have ended,
23 THE OPAL MATRIX
when he slips out of his gross garb into the realm of re
action, he enjoys a gratifying happiness when he reflects
on the fact that his influence promoted constructive ac
tion, fundamental knowledge, high ideals, a rational
conception of operative law.
"Yes, the world has great need for advanced entities
—their influence permeates and radiates. Their abilities
are admired and admiration leads to emulation. Before
each of you lies the path of life, with its attractive ex
periences, its priceless friendships and that accruing by
product, fiber of character and growth into knowledge
of governing law.
"The wise attitude toward the future is a quiet eager
ness of expectancy and a glow of appreciation. This at
titude vitalizes receptivity and gives a wholesome zest
to growth."
After a long silence, as if she were waiting for some
thing, she said, "I perceive that your past has built in the
required experiences necessary to a foundation for con
structive growth. Did it ever occur to you that all the
apparently" —and she placed a stressed emphasis on the
word "apparently" —"adverse conditions of life, are af-
finitized conditions ? Poverty, failure, injustice, persecu
tion, suffering, disgrace —they are all building blocks in
the forming foundation of character.
"Did it ever occur to you that pride and arrogance
must experience poverty and menial positions? That
the entity in a crippled, diseased body, formerly found
pleasure in inflicting cruelty and suffering? Nature is
never at a loss for correctionary methods of promoting
rounded character growth. The resulting reaction of
THE PATTERN OF HUMAN DESTINY 23
each individual's activities is the self-constituted regu
lator of his progress. He, and he alone, regulates the
swing of the pendulum, by dominating the impulses of
the past by his acquired vision of the future.
"There is no human agency that can forgive the con
sequences of a crime, or cancel an incurred debt, and a
crime committed under promise of forgiveness will hold
the agency equally responsible for the commission. The
vibratory law is the one thing that is inexorable in its
reactions. All conform to and obey this law. If people
only had a knowledge of the possibilities to be attained
by the worthy student, possessing a clean body, a clean
mind, and whose actions were dominated by his in
telligence, a knowledge of such possibilities would be
sufficiently alluring to change the standard of world de
sire, and direct impulse of instinctive action into dom
inant self-control.
"But—the world is not ready for knowledge of such
possibilities. People are too busy paying past contracted
obligations, and until the obligation is paid, the vision
is obscured.
"However, people are very weary of promises of hap
piness under the old standards, which they instinctively
feel to be defective. People are restless under instinctively
realized deprivation of authoritative knowledge.
"To a limited mind conditions are apparently chaotic.
They see advancing intellect and ability swinging like
a pendulum between the two poles of desire of gain
through clever crookedness, and the pull of the law
toward rectitude of action. It is a strenuous period of
development, but eventually payment through reactions
24 THE OPAL MATRIX
of activities will result in realized knowledge that 'each
act performed is a promissory note to meet its conse
quences.' Then comes voluntary choice of conformity
and adherence to the higher law of progression, and that
decision of action brings the vision of advantages to be
attained through the new alignment. No student, his
karmic obligations paid, who joins the invisible, con
structive ranks, is without vision of the accruing benefits.
"Through a dominated regulation of life, a man with
out serious unpaid karmic obligations may expectantly
await the functioning of dormant sense perceptions
which will develop into an ability to cognize interrela
tion of plane activities. He will become an attuned in
strument of conception of advanced ideas regarding the
line of research to which he has attuned himself. That
is—his interest along a line of research calls for com
pletion, and there begins to unfold in his mind the
latent possibilities of his projected idea. He is becoming
attuned to the perception of spiritual extensions. That
is a very important point —becoming attuned to the per
ception of spiritual extensions.
"Now," she said, with a smile of finality, and an open
gesture of her hands which unmistakably indicated the
end of the lesson, "now, I see your lives of purposeful
living winding down the future of interesting experi
ence."
She caught a glimpse of Franz' eager, expectant face.
"Oh, no," she cried, with a merry laugh, "you will
meet the future with a new vision, a vision which will
influence you to take the right path of procedure and
THE PATTERN OF HUMAN DESTINY 25
I would not dim the luster of one future experience by
foretelling its occurrence.
"I am going on a journey, an important journey; so
we part."
She handed Franz a card. "The address of a friend,"
she explained, "who will teach you some useful knowl
edge of physical life."
Mechanically, Franz filed the card in a notebook
and looked at Deamati with a wistful expression, as he
said, "Deamati, meeting you has been a great event in
my life. And it is impossible for me to express my ap
preciation of the knowledge which you have given us."
She smiled. "You were ready for the knowledge. That
explains your appreciation."
Franz continued, "I cannot repay. I can only feel
thankful, but I want you to have this."
He produced from an inner pocket a jeweled ring.
"This belonged to that fair girl, as you call her. We
designed it. I have carried it ever since she passed over.
I am sure she also would want you to have her ring."
Deamati took the ring, looked approvingly at its per
fections, slipped it on her finger and held the hand out
for the effect. She exclaimed, as she still admired the
ring, "A beautiful thing to exchange for a vision. I love
such jewels as these. I shall keep it in remembrance of
my friends that I initiated —you, Franz—and your
friend —into a new department of knowledge which
you were ready for."
Ill
COOPER TAKES A NEW CONTRACT
FOR
A few days . after Deamati's departure, the
friends lingered in the vicinity of their initiation
into new knowledge, talking over its details and ap
plication.
"George, I feel as if my future had been charted out. I
feel as if I had been given a road map of life. What
direction of purpose and action is made clear by definite
knowledge."
"Yes," agreed George. "Deamati said, 'You can never
go back to the old attitude of mind which possessed
you before that lost girl looked out at you through that
veil of nothingness and assured you that there is no
death, and advised you to consign old friends to a fu
ture meeting.' Oh, yes, definite knowledge gives a sta
bility to thought, gives a basis for decision, and a con
fidence in procedure."
A few days later Cooper received an offer of contract
for construction from the Turkish Government, which
he decided was too tempting to turn down. There fol
lowed conferences, telegrams, details of specifications,
and at last, accompanied by the official delegates, George
departed for new fields of interest.
26
IV
THE HIDDEN VALLEY
FRANZ
felt strangely alone after the departure of his
friend. The friend who had introduced him to
Deamati and all the important knowledge which had
resulted from that introduction. He spent a portion of
the day thinking over that unusual experience, and the
influence the instruction would have in his life. Toward
evening he decided to again visit the site of that gorgeous
sunset. He took the well-remembered trail which he
and his friend had followed the evening they had met
Deamati. He judged the location of that path which
led to that natural theater box. He tried to locate the
entrance to the path by the view of the mountains and
the distance to the outskirts of the town. But the path
had vanished. He retraced his steps and tried again to
locate the entrance to that path. It was impossible to
penetrate the dense jungle without the path. He was
baffled ! Nowhere within hundreds of feet of where the
path should be was there the slightest evidence of a
path.
He was about to follow the trail which he and his
friend had followed, when suddenly before him stood
a Hindoo with a smiling face and evidently amused at
his bewilderment. Franz was annoyed that anyone
27
28 THE OPAL MATRIX
could approach him so close unnoticed, but he returned
the smile and a gesture of his hands expressed that the
search was useless.
The man spoke in good English, "You are a friend of
Deamati and you seek the path."
It sounded cryptic, seemed to have a double meaning,
but the man had turned a few steps and halted before
an innocent-looking clump of bamboo. He parted the
thick foliage and disclosed a well-marked path which
led through the jungle denseness.
"Ah!" exclaimed Franz, with a puzzled expression,
"what a clever trick; it is the last place one would look
for a hidden path."
The man replied with a meaning look, "Those things
which are most desirable in life are hidden from the
non-observant."
Still cryptic; Franz felt annoyed, yet fascinated. Sud
denly he resolved to encourage the mystery. "Will you
come with me ? It is a gorgeous sight, and as Deamati —
you seem to be a friend of hers —said, 'worth a long
journey to behold!'
"
He nodded in acquiescence and followed Franz. On
entering that natural Opera Box, he again beheld the
splendor. The Sun hung over the mountain, slowly
descended until it touched the peak. Then once again
the silver road blazed out from some hidden source. The
Sun sank into the mountains and gloom settled over
the earth.
Franz turned to his silent companion. "I must thank
you for this vision. But for your help I had missed the
path."
THE HIDDEN VALLEY 29
The man smiled as he explained, "The path which
leads to beauty develops an appreciation of the harmoni
ous relations of nature. But the path which leads to a
contemplation of the nature of the elements of beauty,
builds into the follower of that path the ability to
manipulate elemental nature. Beauty is a key to pleasur
able contemplation of harmony. Knowledge is the key
to mastership, but growth in knowledge includes a keen
appreciation of beauty unperceived by the mere con
templation of form and color."
They were walking slowly toward the town and
Franz was trying to get some light on the double mean
ing of every sentence which the man had uttered, an
evident mystery.
Suddenly the man cut short his line of thought by
asking, "Deamati gave you an address?"
"Why, certainly," answered Franz, somewhat stunned
that anyone could possibly know of that card, which
he hastily looked for among his papers. A small card,
and the only words,
TO ROTANLA FROM DEAMATI.
That was all. No address. No directions.
Franz was perplexed. He extended the card to his
companion with the thought —if he knows of the card
he must know why it was given.
The man declined the card with, "I am informed."
Then, "Do you expect to find the path to Rotanla with
out a guide ?"
Franz turned this over in his mind and decided that
anything which Deamati suggested was for beneficial
3o THE OPAL MATRIX
results. "Can you direct me?" he asked, with a straight
look of inquiry.
This was answered by a reassuring smile. "I am to
offer myself as your guide."
Franz replied with equal frankness, "I accept that
offer. When do we start?"
"At daylight I will call for you, and I suggest that
you store all your effects and prepare for a time of ab
sence."
At daybreak Franz was ready for his adventure, and
as he stepped out of the door he was surprised to find
his guide of the evening waiting.
He bowed a good-morning, gave a look of approval
at Franz' stout walking shoes and a light bag slung over
one shoulder.
He turned into a trail which led into the valley and
Franz followed.
The journey was interesting and the scenery pictur
esque. The guide talked pleasantly regarding any sub
ject but their destination and the personality called
Rotanla.
Game was abundant. A black leopard crossed the trail,
paused an instant at sight of the two men, then vanished
into the shadows. After some hours of travel the guide
suddenly left the trail at a sharp angle and took an up
grade over solid rock. Soon the grade seemed to end at
the base of an over-hanging mountain. Skirting the
cliff, they entered under a projecting ledge, which be
came more acute as they advanced and took on the
nature of a fault in the solid mountain.
The guide produced a light; they seemed to be near
THE HIDDEN VALLEY 3*
the end. He threw the light over the surface of the
ledge, mounted a few steps of projecting rock, inserted
a long key in a depression in the stone, turned the key
and a door swung open. A heavy wood door, which
Franz saw was faced on one side with solid stone, and
he laughed in appreciation at the clever deception. After
carefully locking the door they proceeded along the
fault which was plainly apparent as they proceeded. A
hundred yards, perhaps, and the guide unlocked an
other door. They passed through and there burst on the
vision the miracle of a small, green, fertile valley, en
tirely surrounded by tall, barren mountains.
Franz stopped to admire the unexpected sight, while
the guide in sympathy with Franz' evident pleasure,
seated himself near by. Trees, several buildings against
the base of the mountain, a spring branch which rip
pled over white stones, and the narrow green valley
which miles distant seemed to end at a sheer wall which,
perpendicular, ascended into the blue sky.
Franz admired the beauty of it all in detail, asked his
companion, "Is this the only entrance to this hidden
valley?"
The man considered, as he looked at Franz. Finally
he answered, "I prefer not to make any statement re
garding the valley. Knowledge you should have of that
will be given you by the superior." Then, as an ex
planation of his statement, he volunteered, "I am com
paratively a recent student myself."
"Thank you for your kindness," returned Franz. "I
will not forget it." And they continued their way with a
better understanding.
32 THE OPAL MATRIX
At the door of one of the buildings the guide left
Franz with a man who conducted him to a room —a
man who did not speak English. Shortly after the man
left Franz, a meal was brought in by the same man, who
indicated by pointing to the face of a watch that in an
hour he would be conducted somewhere.
As the time approached, Franz was keen and ready
for the experience. Speculation was useless, so he pa
tiently waited. As the appointed hour arrived, the man
appeared and beckoned. Franz was conducted the dis
tance of some blocks to a massive stone building, which
looked ages old. He passed through an arched entrance
of emblematic design, up a short flight of broad and
very wide steps into a large room, well-filled with in
teresting looking objects. A turn past some cases contain
ing books, and he was facing an old man, sitting at a
table. A man with gray hair but young, clear eyes of
youth.
The old man motioned Franz to a near seat, as die
guide bowed and left the room.
Franz handed the gray-haired man the card which
Deamati had given him—"To Rotanla from Deamati"
—which he took, read, and smiled as he returned
it,
say
ing, "Access to the valley, as simple as that."
He studied Franz as he considered the matter. After
a
time he said, "Yes,
I
am Rotanla, and you are Dea-
mati's friend. She consigned you to my care for some
instructions."
The statement was so simple, so direct, that Franz
felt
a
relief from the tension which had possessed him.
"My son, you have come in contact with forces which
THE HIDDEN VALLEY 33
you did not know existed, and which you do not com
prehend, and much explanation is necessary.
"Deamati is above laws, rules and regulations, because
of her knowledge and her development. She drops a
person in here all unprepared regarding their preced
ing requirements, and their advancement, necessary to
their regular admission here. They lack preceding
knowledge upon which to build that which they re
ceive.
"It is somewhat analogous to placing a student in an
advanced class of algebra who has not built in the funda
mentals of arithmetic. They have no basis for relation.
"My son, you have to grow into knowledge. Knowl
edge cannot be given in chunks and assimilated. You
simply cannot teach calculus to a student deficient in
mathematics nor explain comprehendingly the colors
of the spectrum to a blind man. However, Deamati can
gauge the strata of character development, and the strati-
cal status of the individual. She makes no mistakes and
those she has sent to us have been successful exceptions
to our rules."
He considered Franz for a long time, then he con
tinued :
"Deamati is not an initiate into knowledge. She is a
perceiver of laws through a natural unfoldment. She
knows the interrelation of plane activities through per
sonal experience. She meets us on levels of attainment
by a different path, and as our purpose blends in giving
knowledge of universal law to worthy individuals, we
have much in common. We co-operate in giving knowl
edge to those individuals who are ready for the knowl
34 THE OPAL MATRIX
edge. That is," he qualified, "individuals not bound by
mortgaged obligations which must be paid before
knowledge can contribute to their development.
"Did it ever occur to you that knowledge to some
people would be a stumbling block to their progress —a
bar to their development ? That knowledge to some in
dividuals would interfere with the working of the
karmic law? And mar the plan of progressional growth
requiring sequential knowledge?
"Yes, progressional growth requires sequential knowl
edge."
He looked fixedly at Franz. "Do I state the idea
clearly—do you comprehend what I say ?"
"Yes," answered Franz, with eyes bright and flushed
face, eager with new interest. "I believe I understand. I
want to understand."
"Now," said Rotanla, with a nod of approval at Franz'
interest, "now I will explain the divergence in the two
methods of acquiring knowledge. One is a conception
of law through theory and explanation, while the other
method is a knowledge founded on the reality of facts,
attained by personal experience, by practice, concen
tration and meditation.
"You cannot become an athlete by witnessing ex
hibitions of strength. You develop strength by repeated
exercise, fiber of muscle by contention, agility through
repetition of activity.
"Yes," he continued, as he looked critically at Franz,
"knowledge must be grown into, but"—he paused with
a raised finger for attention—"there are exceptions to
the method of slowly acquiring related knowledge. A
THE HIDDEN VALLEY 35
person who has reached the nadir point in his develop
ment, who has passed through the period of instinctive
reaction to circumstances, who momentarily considers
the wisdom of his procedure in action and speech, who
lives a poised life, dominated by his intelligence —such a
person, contacting the higher knowledge will realize the
great advantages to accrue from its possession. It is an
instrument of great power and is intrusted only to stu
dents of known character, whom we recognize as safe
custodians of the knowledge intrusted to them, to be
used wisely."
A smile illumined his face. "So, my son, you shall
have the theoretical knowledge, which by the regular
methods would require years, you shall have condensed
to weeks and months. You shall be taught the methods
of practice and given the reasons why practice con
tributes to attainment.
"Knowledge, my son, is not the property of any in
dividual or organization. We simply have our methods
of imparting knowledge which insures progressional
growth. Sudden and partial realizations often result in
fanaticism. However, evolutionary periods reach the
climax of coming change. The time draws near which
calls for the acceleration of all constructive forces, and a
co-ordination and unity of purpose for the establishment
of new standards of acquisition and leadership.
"Your life has been investigated, your status approved,
and we welcome you into our fraternity, a fraternity so
old that you could not think of that ancient time. The
fraternity has no name. This valley has no designation.
Even your name on our records —in a strange language
36 THE OPAL MATRIX
known only to our initiates—is changed into a number.
All personalities are dropped at the entrance to the
valley. Titles, honors, the magic of a name, the fame of
a reputation, all are laid aside when you enter here.
Here, Franz Grayle, New York, becomes M-134. You
have the freedom of the valley. You will meet many
members of the fraternity, and you are to consider this
your home.
"The only obligation required of you is that when
you resume your name and go back into the world, you
will never allude to your experience here or the existence
of this place to any person. The knowledge you are
taught you may make notes of and talk over with mem
bers and try to get it into your consciousness. The knowl
edge is yours to use as you judge may benefit the in
quirer. But always discriminately.
"This little valley is a spot outside the world. It be
longs to no country. It has no laws or government. No
parties or politics. No telegraph or mail service. And
the man who drops in here drops out of the world into
undisturbed and uncensored solitude."
Suddenly he paused and seemed to listen. He pulled
a hanging cord, saying, "I am called."
An intelligent looking, fine featured man entered,
approached the desk. Rotanla said, "X-22, this is a new
member, M-134. Instruct him regarding entrance regu
lations." And to Franz, "Return here to me at nine to
morrow."
As they left the building, Franz waited for X-22 to
open the conversation. Outside, he grasped Franz' hand,
saying, "M-134, I congratulate you on your fortunate
THE HIDDEN VALLEY 37
admission to this wonderful place. I take it that you are
an irregular like myself. Regarding the rules, they are
very simple. Everyone here is known by his number,
personalities and all designations are dropped at the en
trance. You have your room. You get your meals at a
place I will show you. You attend instructions, as will
be arranged for you as you proceed.
"All this sounds very simple, but the wonder of the
place and the system grows on you day by day. Here are
no conflicting ideas, no warring elements to deflect the
building into consciousness of a complete comprehen
sive system of life, lived scientifically, in co-operation
with its source."
He ended with, "Well, that is about all."
Franz smiled as he replied, "All ? It seems to me that
you have outlined a whole system. What more can
there be?"
X-22 repeated Franz' words, "What more? Why the
work of building in ability and perception by practice
—by concentration. Attainment is not won by idle curi
osity. Admiration of a beautiful painting does not confer
on you the ability to produce
it.
Attainment means prac
tice —practice—and the Head, Rotanla, knows each in
dividual's requirements along that line.
"A wonderful man, this Head,
a
graduate of several
colleges,
a
master of languages, and"—he ended with—
"a master of the minds of men.
"Don't for one moment think that you dropped in
here
by
chance. Your lineage and descent
is
far better
known than
a
tracer of ancestry could discover in
a
dozen years. They trace your physical ancestry. But
38 THE OPAL MATRIX
Rotanla knows your invisible descent. And I can accept
you as a real brother, with far more assurance of real
relationship than an actual brother whom I was associ
ated with for years."
He explained, "A real brother might have to pass
through incarnations of varied experience before he
would be ready to be dropped in here, while you have
reached that point in your development where your
experience here will greatly promote your progress. If
you had not been ready for this experience, you would
never, never have even dreamed of the existence of this
place."
Franz turned to him in wonder. "Would you mind
telling me how you gained admittance here ?"
"Well, I hardly know. Possibly I can, but I will tell
you this. A tale of the Arabian Knights and the Geni is
not more strange than the circumstances which landed
me here. You see," he explained, "I had lost family, for
tune, position. I was at land's end. My dwindled income
barely paid my simple living expenses, when the un
expected miracle occurred which landed me here."
He paused as though to re-live the experience, then
proceeded, "Money, wealth, possessions, are worthless
trash. Except as a medium of accomplishment, pos
sessions are a barrier to progress."
They had turned into the entrance of a modern build
ing such as might be seen in any city, when X-22 called
Franz' attention to it. "Hardly in keeping with the tra
ditions of the valley, but I must tell you the story of this
building. Not many years ago some of the grateful and
zealous initiates—before they went back into the world,
THE HIDDEN VALLEY 39
realized the great necessity for such a building. They
got their heads together. One was a great architect, an
other a contractor and engineer. They worked out their
plans and then called in the Head. They tell me that a
wise smile lit up his face as he listened to those plans in
silence. Well, it all ended by calling in an Indian Prince,
who has vast domains beyond these mountains. He also
was an initiate. When their plans were worked out they
smuggled in from the North into his domains, cement,
materials, workmen, plumbers, and they constructed
this building. Then the workmen departed and prob
ably never knew they were in such a country as India.
So, we have this miracle in the hidden valley, a monu
ment to the gratitude of wealthy initiates."
They were seated at a table eating their evening meal
when X-22 continued, "You see, when climax of intelli
gence reaches the cessation point of interest, when com
mercialism loses its attraction, and society its flavor,
when research becomes comparatively a dead letter of
repetition, and the disillusioned individual contemplates
his once glittering baubles gone flat, as it were—some
thing—that is if he has a comparatively clean karmic
slate—something is likely to happen to him which will
give him a zest in life, a vision for attainment, a stability
of character, a radiating personality which he never had
before.
"You see," he explained, "the interest in our work is
always glowing, because it includes post life activities.
M-134, when you go back into the world you will meet
many an initiate of the hidden valley; a small identity
mark, and a warm hand-clasp proclaim the spiritual
4o THE OPAL MATRIX
relationship of a brother, kindred in ideals, aspirations
and purposes.
"These initiates in their various environments, are
moulding opinion, character and shaping the lives of
those with whom they come in contact, and all this
unity of purpose and influence is quietly moulding the
laws which contribute to evolutionary progress. Come,"
he said, when the meal was finished, "this is the relax
ing period of the day, mentally and physically, when
people meet, converse, roam about the valley as in
clination prompts, and I have the privilege of introduc
ing you to your first contact with universal energy
through intoned vibration."
Franz was very quiet. He liked this new friend, and
he wished to remember minutely all the instructions he
received. During their walk that evening, Franz and his
companion passed numerous people; some nodded a
welcome, most of them seemed interested in their sub
jects of conversation. Franz recognized several lan
guages —French, German, English, and others that were
strange to him.
As the Sun sank behind the mountains, the shadows
crept up the opposite slope, and as the Sun gilded the
highest peaks, there seemed a sudden expectancy. Every
one turned to the East, toward the last gleams of sun
shine. Then a united tone swelled out in a prolonged
note which filled the valley and the echo of the moun
tains prolonged the sound:
"O-O-O-Ang-ng-ng-ng-E-E-E"
Three times those prolonged notes swelled and gradu
THE HIDDEN VALLEY 41
ally died away among the lofty peaks, and Franz felt
himself vibrate in unison with that tone.
A strange peace seemed to settle over the valley, and
Franz, who for years had keyed himself to a constant,
alert attitude, felt himself relax as a spirit of quietude
seemed to surround and vibrate through him.
His friend parted from him at the door of his room
with a glance and a significant smile.
He retired with a sense of wonder and unreality.
When he awoke it was daylight. He heard the song of
a bird and he realized that he had passed his first day
in the hidden valley.
The time approached to meet Rotanla. Franz was ad
mitted by an attendant, but he paused in amazement
when he heard Rotanla speaking to a man in German.
The man was about to depart and as he withdrew
Rotanla turned to Franz with a quiet smile of welcome
and motioned him to a seat facing him.
He appeared to consider how to begin the conversa
tion. Finally he said, "You are an American, conse
quently I must explain Law to you from the basis of
your conception of life. Your first lesson is to build into
your consciousness a rational conception of creative
energy, which you term—God.
"God is a concreted name meaning 'All Law.' You
have another designation for creative energy —The
Great Architect of the universe, an expression designat
ing one attribute of supreme force. The East has vari
42 THE OPAL MATRIX
ous names for different attributes of the Supreme, to
describe differing manifestations. All of these interre
lated activities of creative energy, which is the force back
of everything in existence —life, form, energy, differ
entiating in activity as magnetism, electricity, affinity
of cohesion, pranic force, instinct, intelligence, the
duality of mind reaction, and innumerable interrelated
forces you will gradually approach by related knowl
edge. And the western world designates all this multi
tudinous complexity under one head, which it terms
God.
"That classification at one time in the past was suf
ficient, when comprehending intelligence guided in
stinctive life—not long evolved from lower conditions
—along the lower stratas of evolutionary growth. But
the advancing growth of intelligence discerned on every
hand, and in every nook of nature, new forces, new
expressions of developments, and they required rational
explanations. Early instinctive life could not think on
complex subjects; hence their guidance through my
thology, through their beliefs in personal Gods who
rewarded conformity with favors, and punished in
fringements of laws with dire calamities. But a my
thology, adequate for instinctive guidance and fulfilling
the requirements of its creation could not continue to
be an instrument for intellectual and spiritual develop
ment.
"That is your lesson for this day—to try and realize
what is embraced by the designation Universal Spirit,
Creative Energy. Grow into a realization of this supreme
force. Think of its myriad expressions; try to realize
THE HIDDEN VALLEY 43
something of its nature, for it is the one reality in exist
ence. It is the indwelling soul inhabiting the body of
every man. Every life is a part of this universal essence.
Try and realize this, and talk it over with students.
Build in this knowledge as a foundation for your fu
ture activities, for co-operation with this universal law.
This essence activity is the key to ability, to strength, to
attainment.
"As you co-operate with this force, so is your ability."
He was silent for a while, then he continued:
"Your life, your continued vitality, your conscious
ness is sustained by your constant, invisible contact with
this universal energy. Your medium of contact is the
air you breathe. You can control your breath, and the
subtle energy, the vital, sustaining life essence follows
breath. Consequently you can learn to direct energy
through control of breath.
"This science you will be taught. Think of this crea
tive energy as the all-pervading universal spirit, evidenc
ing itself as life in all its myriad forms—mineral, vege
table, animal, and human. And all life progressing in
knowledge through experience. For the Supreme sus
tains all by constant contact.
"Yes," he said in conclusion, "man exists today to
change instinct into intellect, ignorance into knowledge
and knowledge into wisdom. 'The unfoldment of the
soul comes through the comprehension of the intel
lect.'
"
Franz enjoyed the advantage of a good memory, and
he devoted the morning committing to writing the les
son he had received from Rotanla. He tried to remember
44 THE OPAL MATRIX
the exact words of that all-important first lesson, and
also the conversation with X-22 following the lesson.
He thought over the importance of the instruction. It
was definite, related knowledge to replace vague, illogi
cal conceptions and conjectures.
He recognized the new knowledge as a standard for
directing a life's activities, knowledge which gave its
possessor a new strength, added ability for accomplish
ment.
He had finished reading his notes when X-22 called,
and on hearing the notes read, he gave his opinion of
their great importance.
"
'Intellectual conception is the
direct road to spiritual realization.' When you begin to
practice and get ability to direct energy, then you will
begin to realize through direct perception. First intel
lectual perception, then through practice comes spirit
ual discernment.
"You have heard of spiritual extensions of ideas?"
Franz nodded, as he thought of Deamati's lecture.
"Well, that is the idea. You see, all about us are ani
mals—camels, cows, sheep, horses, dogs. They possess
in common with men the sense of seeing, hearing, smell
ing, feeling, and they are associated with men, but that
association does not enable them to observe, to penetrate
or to comprehend the world of thought reaction in
which men dwell. They have no conception of time,
space, logic, mathematics, systematic association for co
operative results, tabulated experience for the guidance
of descendants. Could a horse in a bog delegate a fox
as a messenger to deliver a written note to his owner
telling him of his predicament? No! They are confined
THE HIDDEN VALLEY 45
to the world of instinctive reaction to stimuli. Then-
senses convey to them no idea of the realm of thought
reaction in which men dwell. Just so the average class
of mankind, although possessing the reactionary func
tion of mind—analytic thinking, cannot contact the
realm of spiritual perception any more than the animal
consciousness can contact the intellectual realm of man.
"Evolution is a slow process, and a man does not con
tact knowledge until he is ready for it. Philosophy is
open to all, but only a few are attracted through af-
finitized development. However, all men are traveling
the vibratory up-grade of progress and as they become
vibratorily attuned are they attracted.
"There are two methods of acquiring knowledge —
attraction and compulsion. Coaxed into knowledge
through attraction, through affinity. The other, roughly
speaking, is a matter of growing into knowledge from
experiencing the resulting reaction of transgressed law.
As a child attracted by glowing coals reaches a hand
to touch the pretty thing—and the result is a knowl
edge of the nature of fire. Thus the world progresses
in knowledge through experience. But—here in the val
ley, we are given knowledge which we do not learn by
experience, but which we do verify by practice.
"The philosophy of eternal law, which you are taught
here, in its unmixed purity, is yours to disseminate ac
cording to the interest of inquiry. But the secrets of the
initiate belong strictly to the valley.
"Do you realize that knowledge such as this * * *
could be intrusted only to the proved worthy? Do you
realize the power which this knowledge places in your
46 THE OPAL MATRIX
hands ? Well, you will realize in a short time, for in a
few days you will commence to learn the secrets of the
initiates. You will be taught how to control energy and
after a time you will be taught how to control matter."
They had been silent for some time, when X-22 said,
"The twilight hour of relaxation again approaches, and
I must teach you now to join in the vibratory call, for
your co-operation with the tone sent out is your unity
with its reacting vibration."
Then for the second time when Franz saw faces
turned to the East as the last rays of the setting Sun lit
up the tall mountain peak, he joined in that prolonged
note which swelled out to be carried across the valley
and the echoes to die away among the tall peaks. And
his second memorable day in the valley drew to a close.
The day before Franz commenced his studies, he was
summoned by Rotanla, who—after a pleasant conversa
tion —asked him how and where he had met Deamati.
As Franz related his experience with that mysterious,
gipsy-like personality, a humorous smile lit up the
rather severe face of his listener, who nodded his head
in understanding as the adventure proceeded.
As Franz finished telling of the strange events, Ro
tanla said, "Tomorrow you commence your studies and
the following facts, of interrelated knowledge, assist to
elucidate problems connected with your studies.
"Deity is manifest by things brought into objectized
existence. Coming into being is presentation through
sense perception. Consequently —God—as you name cre
ative energy—presents himself through all things. Thus
you get a rational conception of creative force—spirit
THE HIDDEN VALLEY 47
force, which is the power behind manifestation —the
spirit of material existence.
"God is the Law of existing order throughout the
universe, and all life is an infinitesimal part of that
parent essence, consequently—there exists a link of re
lationship to all things."
Rotanla looked fixedly at Franz. After a time he said,
"You are to understand that I am now giving you Key
Knowledge, to power, to abilities. Therein lies the secret
of powers attained by trained initiates.
"Now another secret key to power lies in the knowl
edge that— ALL TRANSFORMING FORCE IS IM
MATERIAL.
"I am outlining to you this knowledge which relates
to your training that you are about to commence here
in the valley. The importance of the relationship you
will realize, as your training, as your practice pro
ceeds."
On the fourth day Franz was turned over to a new
teacher, and his education commenced in the mysteries
of manipulating force. This fascinating study con
tinued for many weeks and Franz had never been so
absorbed and interested in any subject. He occasionally
met X-22 and during one of their talks he declared, "My
new studies are like physics carried into invisible realm,
combined with the power of numbers."
Franz had spent many interesting weeks in the val
ley, when one evening during the relaxing period of
the day X-22 informed him: "Rotanla will see you to
morrow morning."
The following morning when Franz stood before
48 THE OPAL MATRIX
Rotanla's desk, he was welcomed with a smile, and as
before, motioned to a near-by seat. After a while Rotanla
commenced, "M-134, vou are about to again receive
your name and your personality, which you laid aside
when you entered the valley. Here you have been taught
those things which will contribute to your ability in
life's activities which lie before you. Your aptitude in
acquiring is pleasing to us and I know gratifying to
yourself. Not all of our students have the advantage of
your education as a base which permits a clearer com
prehension of our studies.
"It is not desirable that a student of the valley should
side-step a normal educational development afforded by
an average incarnation, by following a fascinating line
of study divorced from the experience of an associated
life. The contentions and problems of life build in fiber
of character and furnish the opportunity for associated
development of entities, affinitizedly attracted to your
care.
"You have been given the vision, you have been in
structed in the beginnings of knowledge, which you
may continue without interfering with the development
of a normal life. Although you cannot communicate
with the valley, the valley never loses its surveillance
over the life and progress of an initiate. And in the
years to come you may receive another call from the
valley."
"When the call comes," replied Franz, "I will be
ready."
Rotanla smiled, "The call is never given until the pu
pil is ready."
THE HIDDEN VALLEY 49
"Mr. Grayle," said Rotanla, placing Franz back into
the world of names, titles and honors, "no man can tell
the radiations of his influence, and the man with a
vision coupled with knowledge of the plan has a destiny
to accomplish."
Outside the door, Franz came face to face with his
old guide. The man evidently was pleased to meet
Franz. His face expressed happiness as he asked, "What
is your name ?"
"M-134," replied Franz. "And your name?"
"Here," he replied, "I am L-30, but I change my name
so often that I hardly know myself. I am to again offer
to be your guide."
"With pleasure do I accept—just as soon as I can
see X-22."
"He will come to your room," answered L-30, with a
definite assurance.
On reaching the room, Franz had gathered and
packed his few articles of personal property when X-22
appeared. He looked at L-30 asking, "You called me?"
"Yes, I called you for M-134," he answered.
"Oh, was that it ? Well, I was waiting to walk with
you to the entrance, to have one more talk before you
are engulfed in the world again, for we here in the
valley can regard ourselves as being outside the world."
Franz had looked for some paper and was writing.
Twice he wrote and then again:
To Rotanla:
In departing from this valley of beauty, peace and
grandeur, I want to leave a token of my gratitude
5° THE OPAL MATRIX
for the knowledge imparted to me, for the kind
ness shown, for the courtesy extended, and the
friendship given me. I enclose the only expression
of gratitude which I can think of at this moment.
Enclosure in blank to be filled in as desired.
Gratefully,
Franz Grayle.
But he looked at the letter and check doubtfully as
he sealed them and asked X-22 to deliver it to Rotanla.
X-22 accompanied them to the door, and as Franz
clasped his hand at the final parting, he asked, "May I
know your other name ?"
"Certainly you may. I am Veryan Rayland, but we
are destined to meet again. This is not the end of our
friendship."
When Franz and his guide had emerged from the
passage through the mountain, the last door had been
locked, and they had reached the trail which led to the
height.
L-30 explained, "You see the details of admission and
leaving are worked out by subordinates. The road back
to your civilization is at present open. It is not always
an open road. We take advantage of favorable condi
tions."
Franz nodded in understanding, but he was wonder
ing how his guide had called X-22 into his room, when
his confessed intention had been to meet them on their
way out.
L-30 explained, "Here you have come into knowledge
which will be of advantage to you in the life before
THE HIDDEN VALLEY
you and which I understand will be a life of importance
in its results and in its influence. Why should you at
present be told of possible development of capacities
which require long practice, a trained mind to be oper
ative? Then," he added, "to every admitted student be
longs the knowledge sequentially. His apparent delays
only add necessary links in the chain of destiny. Every
admitted initiate is an instrument of constructive prog
ress. Never in his future existence will he feel like an
isolated atom of divinity, for the radiating influence of
the fraternity will be evident to him in many an un
expected place. Its rational teachings are logical to all,
except those who are antagonistic to progressive ideas.
And they are many, and militant, and dominated by or
ganized systems.
"Learn to recognize the strata of the man you con
tact. And a man's status may be known by his in
quiry. You must remember that people have come up
through the law of instinctive, emotional action, and
not through spiritual control. They are more attracted
to retarding influences than to progressive. With the
non-arrived but the intelligent, founded in miscon
ceived ideas resulting from inheritance and environ
ment, learn to use that double-edged weapon—ridicule
—for ridicule, with intelligent people, is the most po
tent weapon to arouse a consciousness to reform."
When they arrived at the lodging from which Franz
had started on his adventure in the hidden valley, it was
dark. L-30 left him with the injunction, "Remember,
you belong to us, and your life is devoted to constructive
procedure. May the peace of the valley go with you,"
V
AN UNEXPECTED MEETING
THE-
PROPRIETORS of the house, evidently a man
and his family, gave no evidence of curiosity at his
long absence. He found his old room and baggage as
he had left them. He was about to order some supper in
this land where people seemed to require a meal only
occasionally, when a letter was delivered him with the
pantomimic information that the messenger waited.
The envelope was addressed "Franz Grayle." The let
ter read:
Will you accompany the bearer and dine with me
this evening? I await you.
Deamati.
When his guide left him, he felt lonesome, as if
stranded in a desert, and this note, like a message out of
the clear sky, from his own civilization, changed things.
He hastily prepared and joined the waiting man.
When they arrived he was not taken to the room
where he had formerly met Deamati, but to a smaller,
cheerfully furnished room, in light colors, like an Eng
lish home, in striking contrast to the dark colors of
oriental art.
52
AN UNEXPECTED MEETING
Franz was admitted by the old servant and he was
looking over the room with some surprise, when Dea-
mati arrived and noticed his inventory of her room. She
asked, "Does it remind you of home ?"
"Yes," he replied, "this room, with its couch, writing
desk, fireplace, rugs and papered walls of harmonious
tints, might be found in many an American home.
When I return to India and call on you, I will see a little
bit of the familiar life."
"Yes," she replied, "then you will feel less lone
some."
"No, lonesome is not the idea." He looked at the
Buddha on the desk before continuing. Deamati waited.
Then he said : "A bit of America would be a point from
which I could estimate my change in judgment of
values, a rearrangement of beliefs —my new standard
for valuation. The importance of things to me has all
been arranged in a different order."
"Oh, yes!" she exclaimed. And her face lit up with
comprehension. "I see your dilemma. You are sifting
out and arranging value adjustments according to your
new standards. Growth, my friend, is elimination, as
well as assimilation and the retention of the really
vital.
"You are going back into the world of commercial
ism, or rather into the environment of that world, and
I advise that you lock away your new visions in a little
world of your own. Because of your new knowledge,
you can assist the groper you meet, who is seeking better
values, but generally speaking, a man's environment is
the adjuster of his development."
54 THE OPAL MATRIX
She considered some time before giving the next
advice.
"You, my friend, have been given visions. You are
sent back into the world to round out your present in
carnation. The dreams of youth must be realized in
experience. Love and life and ties are very sweet and
very precious and very necessary to a rounded character.
Retain your visions, but drink of life."
Suddenly she paused and looked at him intently,
"But why do I tell you all this, when I see that your
destiny holds engagement rings and romance and beau
tiful friendships?"
"Because, Deamati," he replied, as he caught another
vision —"you make me realize that love humanizes
knowledge and blends attainment with interests of hu
manity."
"Splendid!" she responded. "It could not possibly
have been better expressed —the gist of the idea we have
been feeling around for, 'Love humanizes knowledge,
and blends attainment with the interests of humanity.'
"
The mellow tones of a gong sounded from some
where near. Deamati arose, "Come," she said, "that
means dinner, good cheer, and light talk."
She took his arm, led him through some draperies
and disclosed a dining room. "You shall tell me of some
of your wanderings in interesting places."
**#*#•
Some weeks after that last talk with Deamati, Franz
reached Paris, where he felt relaxed and among people
he had known before his days of wandering. He enjoyed
AN UNEXPECTED MEETING 55
meeting former friends and renewing old ties, though
he soon realized that his new values of life demanded
standards quite alien to the satisfying requirements of
youthful pleasures.
VI
JIMSIE'S ENGAGEMENT RING
HE
HAD been several days in Paris and was think
ing of booking passage to New York when an
other adventure claimed his attention. He had been
reading a New York paper and wondering how it would
seem to be home again. Could he again feel the zest of
the old life, the anticipations, the expectations ? Suddenly
he felt himself addressed, and glancing up, he looked
into a pair of brown eyes which were asking him direct
questions.
He arose to his feet, holding his paper, and admired
the handsome girl a moment before asking, "What can
I do for you?"
"You are an American ?" she inquired.
"Formerly an American—of late years a nomad."
"How interesting!" she exclaimed, coming nearer,
and evidently relieved of embarrassment at finding him
an American. "They understand you so perfectly. You
don't have a bit of trouble. I noticed you conversing at
the table next to mine last evening and I envied you
your ability."
"Oh, that's your trouble?" he replied, with an under
standing smile. "Yes, I have lived in France long enough
to have transformed my school French into the require
56
JIMSIE'S ENGAGEMENT RING
ments of the native vocabulary. It is really not so diffi
cult," he assured her.
But she shook her head dubiously. "They persist in
not understanding what I talk about."
"How discourteous of them," he sympathized. "Per
haps they were foreigners."
"I thought," she said, ignoring his last remark, "that
you might help a fellow countryman with a little par
ticular shopping."
"Why, of course —I will enjoy it—a new kind of an
education for me, but," he added, as his mind imagined
displays of hats and frocks, "I doubt if I will be of much
assistance."
"Oh, yes, you will be of great assistance," she declared,
"your vocabulary will give me confidence. Your com
pany will insure us courteous and prompt attention."
"And when," he added, admiring her quite perfect
profile, the trim athletic figure, and her assured per
sonality, "when do we start on that interesting shop
ping excursion ?"
"Right now, while you are in the mood to help me,
before that pressing engagement claims your attention."
Her emphasis on "pressing engagement" told a whole
story of interruptions. Franz laughingly said, "They
must have been very important engagements to have
been remembered."
As they emerged from the hotel she insisted on walk
ing, saying, "It is not far."
They were going toward the opera house when Franz
asked, "What kind of shopping shall we attend to first ?"
"Oh, there is only one kind of shopping of sufficient
58 THE OPAL MATRIX
importance to call for help. I am going to select an en
gagement ring."
"An engagement ring?" echoed Franz, in amaze
ment— "Why I thought every man" —but he suddenly
cut the sentence short as he caught her smile at his con
sternation.
"Yes," she continued, "Jimsie gave me a diamond and
told me to convert it into an engagement ring and to
wear that ring until he voluntarily and without coercion
consigned me to a mate of his approval."
"And you consented to an engagement of that char
acter?"
"Oh, yes," she answered, noticing his expression, "I
readily agreed. I have been in love with Jimsie for a
long time. You see," she explained, as she looked at his
perplexed face, "Jimsie is my daddy."
"Oh," he exclaimed in evident relief. "Yes, I believe
I can be of some assistance in that selection."
He conducted her around a corner to a jeweler he had
known in years gone by, and presently they were look
ing over a collection of jeweled rings and platinum
mountings. She handed Franz a long platinum pin,
mounting one large diamond, which was measured, and
after a long search and many comparisons, the selection
was made and the diamond was transferred to its new
setting.
As Franz slipped the ring on her finger she ex
claimed : "Could anyone imagine that my old diamond
could be so beautiful? Jimsie will be proud of his en
gagement ring."
"Yes," agreed Franz, "a jewel in its proper setting is a
JIMSIE'S ENGAGEMENT RING
beautiful thing, but what will you do for a pin ? Such
an artistic setting and no jewel."
He beckoned the jeweler, handed him an oblong,
dark stone, and gave directions for mounting it into the
pin. The jeweler took the stone, gave one glance into
its dark face and turned wide, surprised eyes to Franz,
who had a finger on his lip. "Will it take long?" he
asked the man.
"Oh, no—in two hours it will be finished."
He took her to lunch at a little restaurant which he
had known in other days, and when he recognized
several gentlemen and others spoke to him familiarly,
she felt like a stranger in a strange land.
Suddenly two well-dressed ladies passed. One laid a
hand on her shoulder and exclaimed as she passed on,
"Why, Barbara—when did you come over? Come and
see us, will you ? Here is our address," giving her a card.
"Do you realize," asked Franz, "what a small world
this is ? We both meet friends in Paris, and occasionally
one meets a friend in the desert."
"Well," laughed Barbara, "if they spoke English it
would seem more sociable, and less foreign."
Later in the day when they reached the jewelers and
she was handed her pin, she gazed fascinated into its
dark depths, shot through with flashing fire. She turned
to Franz, who was intent on her display of interest, "Oh,
the beauty of that stone! It must be of immense value.
May I buy it?"
"Certainly, you may have it for the small price I
paid."
"Why, that's gorgeous!" she exclaimed, with a glow
6o THE OPAL MATRIX
ing face. "Two beautiful jewels in one day." Then with
a sudden thought she reopened her purse, handed the
pin to the jeweler, "What is the value of that stone?"
An almost imperceptible sign from Franz and the
jeweler gave an expressive shrug, denying all knowl
edge of values.
As they parted at the hotel she thanked him gra
ciously for his company and his assistance. "What would
I have done without you ? You know," she confided, "I
am learning to obey my promptings, like Jimsie. Jimsie
says 'your impulses are generally right, if you listen to
them.'
"
Franz gave her one level look.
"Yes," she exclaimed, "I interpret your censure. You
are the exception. Miss Hallam, an old friend of our
family, whom I came over with, is today visiting friends.
Several times I have seen you; each time came the im
pression of knowing you. You were like an old friend.
The idea of not speaking seemed absurd. The idea of
knowing you persisted and this morning the diamond
mounting came like an inspiration, and," she smiled,
"you know the rest."
She extended a cool, firm little hand and a card. "You
are to inform me of the exact cost of that other jewel."
"Certainly," he replied, "the exact cost."
The next morning she received a letter which read:
Miss Barbara Alvin,
My dear countryman:
Thank you for commandeering me for that shop-
JIMSIE'S ENGAGEMENT RING 61
ping expedition. It seemed like a spring day after a
dreary winter —a page from the diary of a happy
college boy's life. And now, after years of wander
ing, I will shortly return home and—I hope —to
shopping expeditions. I trust that some day I shall
meet "Jimsie" and learn the recipe for raising girls.
Now for the important part of this note, which is
to inform you of the exact amount which I paid for
that opal matrix. It seems that the thing is rather
valuable, though our bargain was a transfer at the
original price paid. Well, I was in a far-distant
country where they work brown men in mines—
tall, fine, erect looking fellows, who work long
hours for a few coins. They had sent a man to buy
some piece of machinery. He returned with a heavy
weight and I saw a man pick his pocket. They
demanded the change which he could not produce,
and the punishment for theft is severe in that
locality. I intervened, told of the picked pocket
and where the money was secreted. The money
was found, the man liberated.
Late that night the accused man called at my
hotel, gave me the matrix and a curious kind of a
charm which he insisted that I always wear. Then
he vanished. Consequently, you see that the real
price I paid was a favor granted. I never realized
it possessed value until I happened to show it to a
lapidary in Rome, who proceeded to go crazy over
what he declared to be "The Jewel of all Jewels—
the Opal Matrix." He cut and polished two pieces,
62 THE OPAL MATRIX
one you possess ; the other gives me a peculiar satis
faction when I occasionally gaze into its dark
depths.
I bestowed a favor for the stone. You conferred a
favor for a piece of
it,
so the bill
is
paid in full.
If
there
is
one doubt in your mind regarding the
matter of compensation, we will refer the affair for
arbitration to "Jimsie."
Tonight
I
accompany an old college friend to
Berlin and when
Ireturn
I
hope you will have ar
ranged other shopping tours.
Your friend and countryman,
Franz Grayle.
Barbara was alone at breakfast. She read the letter
with
a
pleased, intent look in her eye; but the look was
changed to concern when she came to the mention of
value in the stone. She carefully tucked the letter in
her bag, which contained the pin, snapped
it
shut, asked
the Clerk the address of
a
dependable jeweler, and
started out to learn its value. She realized that the
jeweler who set the stone had evaded giving her its
value.
Barbara Alvin was
a
fair vision as she proceeded at
a
purposeful walk, straight as an Indian, elastic of step,
a
perfect profile. She entered the designated shop,
handed the pin to the bowing attendant.
"Ha-a-a," he exclaimed, with
a
prolonged vowel, "ze
lady
is
fortunate to possess such
a
jewel. Oh—you ask
ze value
?
Why, you must know ze value of your own
JIMSIE'S ENGAGEMENT RING 63
jewels —fifteen, eighteen hundred of your American
dollars."
"Can you possibly mean that ?" with a concerned look.
"Certainly! You shall see our opals, and"—he pro
duced a tray—"all opals —only two matrix. Here are ze
prices. You see? But they are not so rare —like yours.
It is—what you say
—gorgeous! You must have ze at
tachment of safety, the cost is small."
She nodded assent; the pin and chain were quickly
fastened. She returned to the hotel with rebellious
thoughts. However, on re-reading his letter, she smiled
at the deception which had allowed her to accept the
jewel.
Meanwhile Franz' friends had arranged a program
of interest and entertainment and it was weeks before
he returned to Paris, where he learned that Miss Bar
bara Alvin and her friend had departed. He had counted
on seeing her, for that day in Paris with the beautiful
girl was a vivid memory. He recalled her enjoyment
over his perplexity on being told of her engagement to
Jimsie, her grave concern and doubt regarding accept
ing the matrix, and her intelligent interest and ability
of conversation during their lunch at the restaurant. He
concluded that Jimsie had been a potent influence in the
formation of her character.
Several days elapsed before Franz finally secured a
stateroom on the desired steamer for New York, ar
ranged his personal effects for convenience, and made
an inventory of his purchases in Paris. These details com
pleted, he went on deck. The receding line of the French
64 THE OPAL MATRIX
coast was just visible. Gulls flew about overhead, little
streaks of white foam topped the waves blown up by a
southeast wind. The air was cool and crisp. All indica
tions pointed to an interesting trip and fair weather.
Franz heard someone say, "In an hour we touch at
the English coast to pick up the last passengers for the
home run." It was the last days of September and the
passengers were mostly American tourists returning
home. A genial lot of people, seemingly well pleased
with their foreign experiences.
Then the English coast, and as the steamer drew near
the landing a group of people were seen at the dock
waiting for the lowering of the long gang plank. Passen
gers lined the rail, curiously inspecting the identity of
individuals coming aboard, and Franz' idle interest in
watching the varying emotions of the mingling crowd
was replaced with a pleased surprise as he saw Barbara
and a companion coming up the narrow walk. His
surprise must have been conveyed to her, for she in
stantly looked up direcdy into his eyes. She momen
tarily paused, then a little nod of recognition as Franz
held up a hand in salutation.
He pushed through the crowd and met her as she
stepped on the steamer's deck, while her companion
followed on after the porters carrying luggage to their
stateroom. He drew her aside and pointed to the reced
ing bundles. "Do you think it quite fair or loyal to a
fellow countryman to do all that shopping without
asking his assistance?"
She glanced at his censuring face, but smiling eyes,
then replied, "When a fellow countryman writes you a
JIMSIE'S ENGAGEMENT RING 65
letter that he is hurrying to Berlin, it is quite evident
that he does not care to continue his education in shop
ping technique."
"Oh—but— "
he protested, "a mental telegram would
have reached me anywhere."
She shook her head, "Oh, no—your actions spoke
louder than your shopping inclinations. Besides, there
was some secret understanding between you and that
jeweler which requires explanation. When a fellow
countryman uses some secret sign language, right be
fore a trusting girl's eyes, to suppress information, the
lack of which places her under an eighteen-hundred-
dollar obligation —"
He broke in, "Do you mean to tell me that some
jeweler valued that matrix at eighteen hundred dol
lars?"
"Yes," she affirmed, "a reliable man said 'eighteen
hundred dollars of your American money,' and he
showed me the price marks of his stock to confirm his
statement. Only," she added, "my matrix was much
handsomer than any piece he had."
That statement was encouraging. She appreciated the
beauty of her stone.
"Well," said Franz, "that valuation confirms me in
the idea that I should be a trader in the far East, for
when I can secure such valuable gems as that matrix for
small favors" —then he had a sudden idea—"and you
get them valued—don't you think it would be very
profitable for us to form trade relations?"
"Barbara," called the voice of her companion, "I
need you."
66 THE OPAL MATRIX
"Coming," called Barbara, and then turning to Franz.
"Do you deny that you had an understanding with that
jeweler to suppress giving me its value?"
With a French shrug, "I never met him before step
ping into his shop, and you heard every word of our
conversation. Could you construe anything I said into
an intimation to suppress information?"
"No," she admitted, eyeing him doubtfully, "it
sounded innocent enough. You see," she said confiden
tially, "I wanted that jewel, but when I ascertained its
real value, which that jeweler intentionally suppressed,
why—can't you see —I can't accept it."
He thought that over. "You remember the terms of
our agreement ?"
"I must go. I am needed," she said. "We will talk
that over."
She hurried away while Franz sought the head of
the dining room, with which individual he had an
understanding.
Breakfast had been delayed until the last passengers
had been picked up at the English port, and so it hap
pened that when Barbara and her companion were
placed in the dining room, she found Franz occupying
a seat at her right hand.
She looked up with a pleased surprise, "Why you
were the first person I saw on board, and now my near
neighbor at the table. What a coincidence!"
"Yes, it certainly is a coincidence," Franz innocently
agreed. "It looks as if destiny meant us to be friends as
well as fellow countrymen."
"Yes," she smiled, "and possible copartners in deal
JIMSIE'S ENGAGEMENT RING 67
ing in precious stones. And I am convinced that if we
did not succeed financially it would not be your fault."
She introduced him to Miss Hallam, ending with "An
American friend whom Providence sent me as an as
sistant in shopping —the day you visited your friends.
Miss Hallam, Mr. Grayle has been in Germany, in Ber
lin—places you dream of and long to visit."
"Really, Mr. Grayle ? Then you must tell us some of
your experiences in that wonderful country."
And Franz, having a warm spot in his heart when he
thought of early experiences in Germany and his many
friends there, willingly complied.
Meals on a steamer are usually prolonged, evidently
for the purpose of promoting sociability. Everyone
speaks to his neighbor. It is like a family gathering
where likes, attractions and experiences are talked over,
relived and adjusted. Sociability may not be extended
beyond the family atmosphere of the table, but at the
ocean steamer table one gets mental pictures of the life
of those present.
Franz talked of Germany, Miss Hallam of her im
pressions in England, while a neighbor advised them to
see the unusual attractions to be seen in Spain.
After breakfast people exercise by walking about the
deck, forming groups for games, while in the general
assembly rooms cards, chess, reading—and before one
realizes the passage of time, a noisy bell summons to
another meal.
After that first breakfast, when groups were drifting
apart, Franz suggested to Barbara the open spaces of
an upper deck, where one obtains unobstructed views
68 THE OPAL MATRIX
of ocean and sky. They were walking, enjoying the
keen air and distant views over the ocean.
The ocean is at times a great chatter-box, which lulls
the senses into a hypnotic quietude of those who listen
to it. A passing deck hand was induced to bring them
chairs, so they sat and talked and watched the sea, the
light on the ever-changing waves, the smoke of a dis
tant steamer beyond the edge of the skyline and Bar
bara talked of her many interests, of Jimsie, the books
she liked, of the people who attracted her, and as she
talked Franz realized the directing, wholesome influ
ence of Jimsie in her life.
And Franz told Barbara strange tales of other seas,
of lone harbors in distant lands, of exciting adventures
in uncivilized places.
Barbara was a good listener. Judge Alvin had often
said to her, "Now, Barbara, suppose you were in the
jury, what would be your verdict on such a peculiar
case as this?" And he would proceed to sum up the
evidence for her decision. She would listen and give her
opinion, and sometimes she had taken the Judge to task
for prejudice, saying, "Now, Jimsie, your summing up
gives the impression that you are prejudiced in favor of
the plaintiff, and you have told me that the attitude of a
Judge should be strictly impartial."
"Well, perhaps it would look that way. We'll see what
new evidence is produced tomorrow."
They had been great pals, this rather lone Judge and
his daughter. He had surrounded her with influence to
develop her imagination, decision of character, and rea
soning powers. So, if Franz admired Barbara first for
JIMSIE'S ENGAGEMENT RING 69
her physical charm and magnetic personality, on asso
ciation he found new attractions in her mental attain
ments and logical abilities. Her mental equipment was
an adornment to a poised character, and Judge Alvin
had been careful in regulating the influences which con
tributed to the formation of that character.
During their conversation she alluded to that valuable
matrix and spoke of its return. Franz had excused him
self, and when he returned he handed her the original
piece which the brown man had given him. "I have
brought this stone to show you what a small thing it
was for me to give you that piece of opal. You would
not deprive me of the pleasure of giving a fellow coun
tryman something which she admired ?"
"You know," she said, "I must tell Jimsie how I came
into possession of such a valuable jewel. I couldn't enjoy
it with any mystery attached."
"Certainly," he agreed. And the acceptance of the
matrix was left conditionally to the approval of Jimsie.
So what began as an interesting friendship soon be
came an attraction of a more personal nature, and the
fourth night out, after Miss Hallam had retired to the
comfort of her stateroom, Franz and Barbara started
for a brisk walk around the deck.
It was a perfect night. A half moon cast a silver path
over the running waves. The stiff breeze was a steady
quartering wind. To breathe the vital elixir was a sort
of intoxication.
Franz drew Barbara's arm through his and they
quickened their steps. She gave his arm a little hug and
an ejaculation of suppressed joy as they hurried on. She
7o THE OPAL MATRIX
looked so lovable that Franz wanted to take her in his
arms —but no, he checked his inclinations and told him
self, "I must address her in her own home, in a formal
way. It would not be fair to Jimsie and his carefully
instilled ideas of rectitude of conduct."
But Fate! Human nature and emotional attractions
sometimes conspire to hasten the climax or culmination
of a decision of destiny !
The wind had stiffened and Franz asked, "Where is
your wrap ? This is too much."
"I left it on the deck chair."
He hurriedly left, ran down for the wrap, but no
where could it be found. Then she remembered giving
it to Miss Hallam and started down to tell him. She was
nearly down, when she saw him at the foot of the stairs
awaiting her. Then—a swelling wave, a rise of the bow,
a slippery step
—and she was precipitated into his arms.
He drew her close in a strong clasp and strained her
to him, while she looked up into his face in a surprised
wonderment. She looked so beautiful and startled that
Franz lowered his head for a kiss —a courtesy due his
fair prisoner. One small hand involuntarily stole around
his neck as she leaned back her head to meet his lips,
which clung in a long kiss.
"How clumsy!" she said, as he released her. She raised
her arms to put a stray lock of hair in place, and he
again drew her close for a long kiss.
"It was an act of Providence, Barbara. Don't censure
Fate. She just precipitated matters. You know I love
you."
She replied, "I felt that you did."
JIMSIE'S ENGAGEMENT RING 71
"But," he cut in, "I did not intend to tell you, not for
some time—not until you knew me, and Jimsie ap
proved."
"And you think," she asked, with a quiet smile, "you
could have concealed your feelings from me all that
while?"
He drew her down to a seat near by. "I feel, Barbara,
that we will be very happy, of course," he qualified,
"with Jimsie's approval."
She gave a happy little laugh. "Yes," she agreed, "with
Jimsie's approval." And her laugh conveyed a confi
dence that she already knew the verdict of Jimsie's de
cision.
That night Barbara lay awake long hours thinking it
all over. Barbara was the only daughter of Judge Alvin.
She was a prominent member of a select society. She
had a few warm friends and many admirers, both men
and women. She had been sought in marriage by prom
inent men, any one of whom had she accepted, would
have been labeled "a fortunate marriage." One young
man, a son of old family friends of the Judge, had—
when he had failed with Barbara, gone to the Judge to
plead his case. And the Judge had looked his judicial
censure at Barbara, if he didn't speak it orally. He con
sidered it would be a desirable marriage from every
angle.
Barbara understood his unspoken censure and asked,
"Why, Jimsie, do you want to get rid of me?" And he
had replied, "Barbara, you are the one bright tie that
harmonizes me to a fickle world, but, child, the destined
end for a good woman is a happy marriage." Then he
72 THE OPAL MATRIX
added, "And the young man belongs to such a fine old
family, and he is very fond of you."
"But, Jimsie," she had answered, going over and sit
ting on his lap to argue out the matter, "I don't love this
young man. I guess I am old fashioned about this affinity
idea"— Then she gave him a hug and a kiss — "You
just wait, Jimsie. I'll pick you out a son-in-law you will
be proud of."
He had kissed her, given her the diamond for an en
gagement ring, and exacted a solemn promise that she
would never break her engagement to him without his
approval of her selection.
That was two months before she went to Paris with
Miss Hallam.
Then she went over—her first impressions of Franz,
before she had asked him to help her with shopping.
She approved all his conduct, his intelligent viewpoint
of things, and when she had been pitched into his arms
and had thrilled at his embrace and his kisses, she knew
she was right in her intuition of harmonious affinities.
But how would Jimsie view the matter—such a short
acquaintance? She fell asleep thinking of Jimsie's atti
tude, but awoke with the dawn, and her first impulse
was to go on deck. She dressed, caught up a wrap and
sought the upper deck. In the East was the faint red
evidence of coming day, and in one of the chairs they
had occupied the day before sat Franz, looking out over
the ocean toward the East.
He arose and awaited her approach. "I've been call
ing you," he said, taking her hand and seating her in
the neighboring chair. "This is glorious —to see the
JIMSIE'S ENGAGEMENT RING 73
Sun come up out of the ocean and flood the world with
light."
His steamer rug did duty for two, and there gazing
into the fascinations of a sunrise, Franz told her the
story of his life, his experiences, his adjustment, of
Deamati, and her illumination of some of the mysteries.
Her silence and the pressure of her hand told of her
interest. He ended with, "Some day, Barbara, I'll read
you the notes of Deamati's talks which I wrote down
when they were vivid in memory, and so important."
They had been walking around the deck in silence,
when she suddenly asked, "Mr. Grayle, you have so
much knowledge, such ideals of life—can you find hap
piness with a companion who lacks these things?"
And he replied, "Barbara, that is not the idea. We can
learn together. But you—whose personality, grace, cul
ture and beauty have fitted you to be a leader and an
ornament in society, can you be happy with a rather
plain fellow who is somewhat disillusioned with the
charms and pleasures of social activities ?"
She thought that over for some time. "Yes," she ac
knowledged, "I have been educated in the social school.
It is a great game, a very fascinating and alluring en
ticement—for a time. Society is a good kindergarten to
life. Its niceties and observances give grace to personal
ity. The politeness of society is to life what Latin is to
an education. But," she qualified, "after you have
learned the game and derive the benefits of the social
education, you soon lose the zest for continuing it.
That's why Hallam and I ran over to Paris—to break
off the social obligation."
74 THE OPAL MATRIX
Suddenly she was roughly snatched into a pair of
arms. She looked up bewildered into his eyes, then with
a sudden realization and a mutual understanding, their
lips met in a long kiss.
Some minutes later they obeyed the insistence of a
noisy bell calling to breakfast. Barbara was very quiet
at the table, but when they were sitting in their se
cluded nook, Barbara stated as an arrived at conclusion,
"Yes, I think I can induce the Judge to consent to the
transfer."
And to Franz came a sudden illumination. "Bar
bara, do you mean to tell me that you are a daughter of
Judge Alvin?"
"Why," she exclaimed, with surprised eyes, "do you
know Jimsie?"
"Well, not exactly under that designation," replied
Franz, and he smiled as he thought of the presumption
of anyone calling the Judge "Jimsie."
VII
BARBARA'S CROSS EXAMINATION
SEVERAL
days after this talk, Barbara was in Judge
Alvin's office. She was sitting in his lap engaged in
an inquisitorial controversy.
"And," asked the Judge, "where did you meet this
man?"
"In Paris, at the hotel."
"And who introduced you ?"
"Why, no one," she answered, realizing that she was
not presenting her case well. "You see, Jimsie, I was
bothered with the language, and I called on him—a
fellow countryman —to help me out."
"How did you know he was an American ?"
"Why," answered Barbara, "anyone could see that.
And he said he was formerly an American —of late years
a nomad."
The wrinkles at the corners of the Judge's eyes deep
ened but he looked serious.
"Where does he live, Barbara?"
"Why, Jimsie, I forgot to ask him," she replied, real
izing that she was losing ground.
"And you don't know who his folks are, or what his
family is?"
75
76 THE OPAL MATRIX
"No, Jimsie," she said. "He never spoke of his folks."
He was thoughtful for a while. Finally he said, "To
sum up the facts —my daughter goes to Paris, and one
day when left alone she picks out an adventurer who
speaks French fluently, but claims to be an American.
My daughter asks this stranger to go shopping with her
to buy an engagement ring. She intrusts him with a
valuable diamond and they jointly select a setting."
Suddenly he paused, "Let me see that ring, Barbara."
After a careful inspection he returned the ring with the
statement, "Yes, it's your diamond all right, the spot's
there." He resumed, "When the setting is selected —
which I acknowledge is very beautiful —your pin lacks
a diamond, and this assistant to your shopping supplies
a jewel to replace the loss worth eighteen hundred dol
lars. Explain to me how you could accept a valuable
jewel from a stranger."
"Well, Jimsie, there is some mystification about that
jewel. He instructed the jeweler exactly how to set the
stone, then he took me to dinner, and when we returned
for the pin, I realized from its beauty that it must be
valuable and asked the jeweler its value. He spread out
his hands and shrugged his shoulders. Then when I
spoke of purchasing
it,
Mr. Grayle said, 'You may have
the stone for the exact price
I
paid for it.' But when
I
received his letter mentioning the jewel as having value,
I
became suspicious, took
it
to another firm that valued
it
at 'eighteen hundred of your American dollars.'
"
"Barbara, what excuse had this man to write you a
letter?"
"Well, Jimsie, here
is
the letter.
It
explains itself, and
BARBARA'S CROSS EXAMINATION
I think when you meet Mr. Grayle you will regret
your severe censure."
"Barbara, I trust that I will. I had learned to place
considerable confidence in your discernment of char
acter"—he paused, and she finished the sentence, "but
since you rejected such a desirable alliance as Leslie, I
have my doubts on the subject."
"Barbara, you know"—she placed her hand over his
mouth.
"Yes, I know it is your desire for my happiness, but,
Jimsie, if I were intimately associated with Leslie we
would actually throw objects at each other in a week's
time."
The Judge carefully read the letter, then he folded
and returned it.
"Barbara, has this man asked you to marry him ?"
She thought over their last days of perfect under
standing, then looked up in surprise. "Why, Jimsie, I
don't believe he ever did." Then she added, "But that is
understood, with a man like Mr. Grayle. It is not neces
sary to put understandings into words." Then she ap
pended, "Of course, our intentions must have the sanc
tion of your approval."
"Barbara, that last clause is conceding a lot, after the
jewel has been stolen."
"Jimsie, I weighed all his acts and conversation, and
they all rang true, but that secret understanding he had
with the jeweler, and since I know him, I understand
that he wanted the pleasure of giving me a pretty thing,
which he knew I would not accept had I known its
value."
78 THE OPAL MATRIX
"Barbara, I will suspend judgment on this fellow un
til I see him, and I hope, for your sake, that he rings
true to me."
"Thank you, Jimsie, he'll ring true all right!"
VIII
THE RING OF THE METAL
RANZ told Barbara at the steamer landing, "In two
days I will call you up for an appointment."
They landed Wednesday. Friday he had called her
from Washington. "May I see you Sunday about three ?"
So the Judge and Barbara were at home, when promptly
at three the servant announced "Mr. Grayle to see Miss
Alvin."
Franz murmured, "A long time since Wednesday," as
she greeted him. They had talked some minutes when
Franz asked about the Judge.
"He is fine," replied Barbara, with emphasis, calling
—"Jimsie!" —And the two men faced each other—one,
a supplicant, and the other, a Judge to pass on the merits
of a man who had stolen his only daughter's affections.
The attitude of the Judge was social cordiality, but be
hind the mask the exacting Judge; while Franz had an
interest in Barbara's father and a curiosity to meet the
celebrated legal authority he had often heard of.
They extended their hands in greeting, while a tense,
puzzled expression passed over their faces, as with nar
rowed eyes they momentarily examined each other.
Then an animated, joyful surprise as their grasp tight
ened.
79
8o THE OPAL MATRIX
"Why," inquired Barbara, in consternation at her
father's sudden change, "do you men know each other ?"
Franz answered simply, "Yes, Barbara, we do!"
And the Judge, "Barbara, Mr. Grayle's credentials
have been endorsed by a higher court than my author
ity." Turning to Franz, he said, "Mr. Grayle, this is
your home. You are very welcome."
Barbara was mystified and greatly perplexed. Some
miracle had occurred which she could not account for,
but evidently a happy one. So she entered into the spirit
of it all, realizing that some mystery was concealed from
her knowledge.
After an enjoyable afternoon of profitable conversa
tion, Franz related to the Judge and Barbara the details
of his experience with Deamati, and when Barbara was
summoned to mysterious regions to superintend some
detail of dinner, Franz extracted a case from an inner
pocket, selected a card which he handed to the Judge.
It read, "To Rotanla from Deamati."
The Judge studied it carefully with eyes that looked
into past memories. Then he returned the card with a
nod of understanding.
The next day the Judge, who had spent a portion of
the day with Franz, said to his daughter when she
seated herself on his lap for confidential relations, "Bar
bara, I bow to your woman's wisdom for rejecting Les
lie, for within the region of the Seven Seas you could
not have picked out a finer man than Franz Grayle, nor
could he have found a finer woman than Barbara."
"Oh, Jimsie, you are so prejudiced, but you are very
THE RING OF THE METAL 81
consoling. But you forgot to mention the merits of that
father-in-law he is going to have."
"Barbara," said the Judge, with a sudden realization
of what separation from his daughter would mean to
him, "that he is duly appreciative of the merits of one-
half of the family is sufficient without distracting his
mind with the other half."
"Jimsie, this omission of his recognition of the merits
of your half of the house will not pass muster, not after
the way you both suddenly flamed up at that first meet
ing. Judge Alvin—never —since my long association
with him, has he lit up with enthusiasm at the recog
nition of any man's merit. And this miraculous exhibi
tion of the existence of some free masonry between you
two—why I am really concerned to know if it is a fra
ternity or a conspiracy ! Jimsie, did you ever meet Franz
before that meeting?"
"Barbara," laughed the Judge, "you have missed your
calling. You should have been a detective. No, I never
met Mr. Grayle before, and it is impossible to tell you
what is comprised in that recognition. Suffice it to say,
you are the most fortunate girl I know."
She let it go at that, but many a time in the future
she would wonder at the perfect understanding existing
between these two men.
Six months from the date of that Paris shopping epi
sode, Franz and Barbara were to be married, and the
intervening time was filled with enjoyable activities,
one of which was planning their future home.
In the country Franz owned an old estate —a large,
82 THE OPAL MATRIX
old stone house, a lake, acres of timber, and many wide
stretches of fields. All of this was surrounded by an im
penetrable hedge of thorns, excepting the front, where
a long stretch of stone wall abutted the ending of the
hedge. At the entrance stood tall stone columns, but the
high wooden gate had long since succumbed to the
weather.
Franz, Barbara, and the Judge motored out to in
spect this ancient estate. Both Barbara and the Judge
were charmed with the quaint plans of the original
builder —the living room with its massive, beamed ceil
ing—the great fireplace, the deep casement windows,
were all objects of admiration.
So a clever architect was called in and ordered to add
every convenience of modern building—polished oak
floors would replace flagging, partitions cut large rooms
into cozy bedchambers. Furnace for heating, garage
facilities for visiting friends, a house for the gardener,
who would plant gardens, fruit orchards, and manage
a small dairy.
Barbara decided for a garden and hives of busy bees.
Franz planned a workshop, and the Judge declared his
part of the program was furnishing appropriate furni
ture.
Months passed rapidly, the building plans were com
plete, the home furnished, and the Judge and the archi
tect were inspecting the details.
"I consider it a unique home. I see no flaws, and your
furniture details are in perfect keeping with the place,"
was the final comment of the architect.
"Now the last item will be installed tomorrow —tht
THE RING OF THE METAL 83
housekeeper—and Thursday friends will occupy the
house to welcome home the owners. But what is this?"
asked the Judge, as he came to a locked apartment.
"That," returned the architect, "is the lady's orders.
She has the key of that apartment and its contents."
"What has she been up to now ?" queried the puzzled
Judge.
"Patience," smiled the amused architect, "solves all
riddles in the course of time."
Then, finally the arrival, and a group of friends wel
comed home Franz and Barbara. They were as surprised
as their friends at the transformation wrought by the
architect and the decorators. They roamed over the
place, made new and very beautiful, and very satis
factory.
As the guests were about to seek their rooms, after
the dinner and gayeties of the evening, Barbara piloted
Jimsie to the forbidden room, unlocked the door and
disclosed a duplicate of all the comforts and conven
iences of his city home.
"There!" she exclaimed, giving him the key and a
caress. "Jimsie now has two homes," and she left the
surprised man to investigate all the niceties of his new
apartment.
####*#
The years passed and children were born to that home
and grew into happy, wholesome childhood, unre
stricted but guarded in a natural environment. Healthy,
happy youngsters, with active bodies and inquisitive
minds. The echo of childish laughter mingled in the
84 THE OPAL MATRIX
forming atmosphere of the Grayle Estate —destined to
make history and shape events.
Long, happy years had passed since friends welcomed
home Franz and Barbara and she had given Jimsie the
key to his apartment, which became from that date the
home of his heart.
Fortunate were the friends who were admitted to the
intimacy of that home. No discordant element ever en
tered there. Constructive activity ruled, and directed
purpose shaped endeavor.
IX
THE CONVICT
ADENSE heavy thorn hedge surrounded the entire
Grayle Estate. It had existed since Franz could re
member, in its present dense state. Nothing larger than
a squirrel or a bird could pass through such a thicket.
Yet as Franz, hundreds of yards from the house on the
southern hedge boundary, turned at the sound of a
breaking twig, he was confronted by a man in the
striped suit of a convict. A man of medium height,
dark eyes, unkempt face, age probably twenty-five.
All this was one fleeting impression as the man, with
narrowed eyes, closed the distance between them.
Franz asked, as he realized the coming attack, "How
did you get in here?"
The man halted a few paces distant and, with a
grim face, replied, "I heard a guard say, 'That's the
Grayle Estate, no use looking in that direction, he
couldn't get in there.' So I found a pole and vaulted
the hedge," and with a menacing tone added, "I'll
trouble you for that suit of clothes you're wearing."
"I suppose," said Franz, as he realized the intent,
"that you are Morton, who escaped a few days ago—
the man who murdered his guardian."
"Yes, I am Morton all right and that verdict of mur
85
86 THE OPAL MATRIX
der was the decision of the Court. Say! Do you need
assistance to peel that suit?" And he made a dive.
Franz, a trained athlete since school days and kept
in trim by years in the open, quickly sidestepped the
rush, peeled his coat, with one quick movement, and
the fight was on. For the first few minutes it was fast
and devoid of any science. The man's aim seemed to
be to win by surprise and agility.
Franz kept the man at arm's length. Back and forth
they fought without pause. The man would draw
away and then leap in with a sudden rush. Franz was
saving his breath for a decisional opening. Both boxers
were breathing fast and the wild pace could not be
long continued.
Finally, after one mad rush and a blow which just
missed its mark, the desired opening came. The man,
probably weak from fasting and exposure, stepped
back for air. Franz, with a quick rush, and an upper
cut, caught the tip of his chin and the man sagged
down and out.
When he recovered and looked dazedly about, he
found his hands securely tied behind his back. Franz
had resumed his coat and was intently watching the
recovery. The man sat up, shook his head violently
with quick side movements, then he seemed to realize
what it all meant, and looked up at Franz watch
ing his come-back.
With dejected abandon he bowed his head. "You
win—I'm through —call the guard."
Franz, revealing his line of thought, said, "I don't
THE CONVICT 87
believe you killed that guardian. You are no coward,
and it takes a coward to commit murder."
The man had risen to his feet and was looking at
Franz as though doubting his hearing. He coughed
to conceal a sudden emotion.
Franz, noting these reactions and the man's emotion,
suddenly looked him in the face. "Will you promise
to be my obedient prisoner until I dispose of you?"
The man took in the words dazedly. Then his face
took on a faint glow of hope. "I promise to obey your de
cision, as I hope some day for justice."
Franz cut the bonds from the man's wrists, turned
and led the way without conversation. He conducted
the man to a room over the garage. Once inside, he
opened the bath room door, turned on hot water, then
critically inspected the quite bewildered man. "Now,"
ordered Franz, "strip."
The man obeyed, first removing and placing on a
chair some articles from his pockets. Naked, he looked
a developed athlete.
Franz pointed to a cabinet. "Soap, razor, towels,
pajamas."
The naked man entered the bath room. Franz ex
amined the articles from the man's pockets, after plac
ing all clothing in the fireplace and applying a match.
Only one article was of sufficient attraction to call for
detailed notice. A round object, perhaps a large sea
bean, or a piece of polished, dark wood, some three
inches in diameter. Oval in shape, like a lady's jewel
or powder box. Franz was examining the curious ob
88 THE OPAL MATRIX
ject when the shaved and bathed man, clad in pa
jamas, stepped out of the bath room.
Franz, with narrowed, suspicious eyes asked, "What
is this, and where did you get it?"
"Oh, that!" exclaimed the man, as he reached for a
chair. "Excuse me if I sit down. I've gone a litde too
far." He might have added "without food."
Franz had noticed his exhaustion, but he wanted a
statement regarding that round object before supply
ing nourishment.
The man drew his chair nearer Franz, sat down,
with his arms over the back, and reached for the ob
ject, as if it would help him with his explanation. He
held it up, looked it over critically, then turned to
Franz.
"This," he said, holding it in his open palm, "is
the one strange thing about that night. I had argued
with my uncle about his restricted management of the
mill, about a better allowance for myself. He had ob
jected to all of my suggestions. Said I spent too much
money, that I received no adequate return for what
I did spend, that when I realized value I could have
what money I needed. I reminded him that in one
year I would be in possession of my estate. He replied
—and those were the last words he ever spoke—'The
Estate is partially entailed. The rest will probably be
a fool and his money.' Then suddenly everything was
blotted out."
He paused, as if trying to remember. "When I re
gained consciousness," he leaned toward Franz, pushed
THE CONVICT 89
his hair back, showing a white scar and traces of sur
geons' stitches, "I saw Uncle slumped over in his chair,
and near my hand lay a revolver—Uncle's revolver. I
crawled to him and pulled myself up by the aid of his
chair, felt over his heart. He gave one last gasp and
died. When I withdrew my hand it was red with blood.
As I looked at my hand the porter opened the door,
gave one look at the tableau and exclaimed in a
frightened voice, 'So you shot your Uncle!' Then I
heard him phone for the police. I looked over the
room. Everything seemed as usual, nothing disturbed,
but at my uncle's feet lay this little round object. It
wasn't his. I had never seen it before. While I was
wondering what the thing was, how it got there, the
police rushed in. I had a sudden impulse, one crazy
idea to hide this thing. Well," he paused in a helpless
way, "every circumstance was against me. I had quar
reled with my uncle. The revolver showed my finger
prints. There was not a shadow of suspicion against
anyone but myself. The jury decided the verdict in
thirty minutes, and I was sentenced to prison for twenty
years." A long pause. "Three days ago I escaped. That
tells the tale."
Franz breathed a long breath of relief. His eyes re
sumed their natural expression. He reached for the
round object which he placed in his pocket and said,
"Get into bed, and I will return presently."
The man obeyed, and in a very short time his deep
breathing indicated slumber. Franz hastily departed,
quietly locking the door.
9° THE OPAL MATRIX
About a half hour later he returned with a tray of
food. The man still slumbered. He placed the tray on
the table, took the round object from his pocket and
with the point of a pen knife began to carefully trace
the square Greek scroll border on the outer edge of
each side. As he traced the design he discovered which
lines of the scroll were very slightly accentuated in
depth. He found two such lines on each side, about
one-eighth of an inch apart. He applied pressure to
a point between these lines, and presently a key por
tion of the design moved and swung out. He then
twisted the halves in opposite directions like a cover
on a box. They turned on a central pivot and he held
in his hand an efficient, highly tempered steel saw.
Once in the East he had been shown an exact dup
licate taken from a prisoner trying to cut bars of his
cell. It was an ingenious contrivance, the work of a
skilled mechanic. But as he held the thing in his hand
admiring the skill and cunning of the workman, he
felt convinced that the sleeper was ignorant of the
nature of his possession.
He slightly shook the sleeping man, who opened
his eyes, gave a wondering look about the room, then
connected up events and sat upright.
Franz said, "Come! Here's a meal. That fast has
been prolonged about long enough."
The man looked around bewildered, then centered
on Franz and said, "The past two years, the prison
life, all seem like a dream. These are the most wel
come words I've heard during that long time. Excuse
THE CONVICT
me," he said, as he walked over to a sink, washed his
hands, face and mouth, then took a seat at the table
and selectively commenced his meal.
Franz quietly watched the process, for eating grades
the man as to culture, social familiarity, personality
and tendencies. It was hardly fair to subject a fast
ing, hungry man to such a method of rating, but he
passed, and Franz' mental comment was, "The man
is a gentleman."
As he finished, he drew a little apart from the table
and turned to face his host.
Franz, handing him the little object, asked, "Have
you discovered the use of this thing?"
He looked it over critically before replying. "No,
this interlaced triangle on one side and the Grecian
border would seem to indicate some use, but the thing
is solid. I've wondered many times what it meant,
what its purpose was, but I summed it up as a product
of idle time."
Franz was satisfied with the result of information
obtained. So he took the object and disclosed its
mechanism to its surprised owner.
When he realized what it was, he exclaimed, "And
I remained for two years a prisoner."
Franz nodding his head replied, "Your retention of
its possession was probably the wisest impulse you ever
had. The problem now is to find the real owner, then
you will know who killed your uncle. This object
seems the sole clue, the one loose screw in a perfect
crime. I will lock this in my safe, and your correct
92 THE OPAL MATRIX
line of procedure just now is a good night's sleep and
rest. Lock your door. Tomorrow —a suit of clothes,
a plan of action. Good-night!"
Franz left a very bewildered man, but a man who
firmly believed in dreams and fairies.
X
THE PRISONER'S STORY
IT
WAS Saturday evening when Franz left his pris
oner with his problem and entered the house to
find Barbara and her father engaged in conversation.
Judge Alvin usually came out on Saturday and re
turned to his judicial duties Monday morning. The
Judge's week-end visits were always occasions of in
terest. He would talk over the unusual problems of
his office, as well as the interests of the city.
At dinner he broached a new topic with, "The
longer I continue in my capacity as Judge, my ac
cumulated knowledge teaches me that circumstantial
evidence should never carry a capital sentence. If that
conclusion would be followed as a guide to verdicts
there would be a chance to partially retrieve an un
just decision."
The import of the Judge's remark seemed to relate
in some way to his prisoner's case, so Franz waited
for the associating suggestion.
After a long pause the Judge explained, "The evi
dence has just been given by a badly wounded crim
inal, who realized he had only a short time to live,
which evidence frees a man having a life sentence.
He not only made a confession of having himself com
93
94 THE OPAL MATRIX
mitted the crime, but he furnished detailed proof to
substantiate his confession. Of course," continued the
Judge, "if the sentence had been the death penalty,
the law could not partially remedy its decision."
Barbara asked, "Well, father, when a man is un
justly imprisoned for a crime which he did not com
mit, has he no recourse against the State for sustained
damages? I suppose," she added, "the Governor will
pardon an innocent man without making even an ex
cuse for its error."
"Yes," replied the Judge. "It would be justice for
the State in this case to recompense this man. You
see, the State, through laws made by the people, had
twelve men agree that this man was guilty. The law
is a complicated process. I acknowledge it should make
provisions for such cases as this."
"It certainly should," exclaimed Barbara, growing
indignant. "Why, that was a tragedy which cost repu
tation, loss of friends, financial dislocation, and prob
ably an imbittered attitude of mind."
Franz said, "In this case a dying man's confession
frees a convicted criminal, but how many innocent
men continue in prison for the reason that the real
criminal never confesses his crime? Now, I have had
an experience myself, today. It is an interesting prob
lem which will require your help, Judge. It promises
to be an interesting case and an intricate one."
He related to the Judge his experience of the morn
ing, how he turned at the sound of a snapped twig
to find himself face to face with a convict in striped
clothes. As he finished the tale, he handed the Judge
THE PRISONER'S STORY 95
the little object which George Morton had picked up at
the feet of his murdered uncle.
"On the history of this little object probably depends
the solution of the crime. What do you and Barbara
make of it?"
After examining
it,
the Judge handed
it
to Barbara,
remarking, "Mathematical execution and design. Only
a
real artist could have carved that Solomon's Seal."
When Barbara had examined
it,
Franz showed them
the concealed mechanism and the cleverly concealed
saw, then he carefully locked
it
in his safe.
The next morning Franz, accompanied
by
the Judge,
knocked at the garage door.
It
was opened
by
a
young
man, who looked years younger than the convict of
yesterday. The tired, haunted look was gone from his
face. He looked animated, quietly expectant, as
if
there
were such
a
thing in the world as hope.
He said, with
a
bow to Franz, "A wonderful sleep.
I
feel like
a
new man."
And then he saw the Judge. His features froze, and
the haunted look returned.
Franz saw the changed expression and said, to re
lieve the situation. "This
is
Judge Alvin,
a
relative of
mine. He knows the law of human activity. He knows
the emotions which govern crime. You will tell us both
your story."
Judge Alvin possessed the rare faculty of dominat
ing the other fellow's attitude of mind.
"Young man, there exists no condition but that may
have
a
beneficial reaction. Of course, the personal equa
tion would take exceptions to that statement. Also, an
96 THE OPAL MATRIX
injustice suffered often gives a required fiber to char
acter, the required temper to the metal. Take that
chair, and your reflective time, and, as Franz said,
give us your version of your case."
When the Judge referred to Grayle as "Franz," it
seemed to recognize and include Morton in a human
relationship. He gave the Judge one long, inquiring
look and then followed his perfect confidence. He
took the proffered chair and, without mental restraint,
commenced an impersonal narration of events, as
though it were the history of a crime unrelated to
himself.
"Years before his son was an escaped convict, Robert
Morton was a small but successful manufacturer in a
small city in New Jersey. He had carefully and by hard
work piloted his way to an earned success. And when
prosperity had finally fallen to his lot and the routine
work and the long hours could be safely delegated to
employees of proved capacity, Morton began to ex
plore the world of scientific accomplishment. Me
chanics, invention, the enchanted land of Physics, only
to realize, rather bitterly, his lack of fundamental edu
cational equipment necessary to comprehend the new
world opening to him.
"He realized the restriction which that lack imposed,
the fetters of ignorance, and he vowed that his son
should have the equipment which restricted circum
stances had denied him.
"His wife had been killed in a collision when their
only son was five years of age. Morton had installed
in his home a competent housekeeper to continue the
THE PRISONER'S STORY
home life, and as time passed and the sorrow of his
bereavement became overlaid by new interests, he
transferred his affection for his wife to his little son.
"They had been great chums—this father and son.
They had studied together evenings during school
terms. They had long trips at home and abroad during
vacations, and when George left home for college, his
letters catered to phases of interest which his father
preferred.
"A few months after graduation George joined some
friends in an extended foreign trip. Two months later
the tragedy occurred. Robert Morton dropped dead in
his office. It was weeks before George could be informed
and arrive home, and when he finally arrived, he found
a changed environment.
"Robert Morton's only relative aside from his son,
George, was an elder brother, Leonard Morton. It
would be difficult to imagine two people more unlike
than these two brothers. Robert was progressive, studi
ous, always reaching out for better things, always try
ing to improve the products of his factory. Leonard
was conservative, attentive to religious formality, had
few friends and few ideas outside his small circle of
equally limited associates, as his ideas revolved in a
small circle, his financial expenditures were restricted
to his actual necessities. He considered Robert a waster
of money, and especially sinfully wasteful in the liberal
allowance given George.
"This is a picture of the mental caliber of the man
appointed executor of his will and guardian of his son,
George. Leonard had taken over his brother's place in
98 THE OPAL MATRIX
the factory, and his cut in expenditures had caused a
strike. The factory was about to close when George
arrived. He argued with his uncle, 'Had not the factory
always prospered under a liberal management? Had
not the men always been contented and happy and had
not they taken a pride in the reputation of the factory ?
Why change?"'
He paused. His picture of conditions and relations
had been clear-cut and forcible. His two listeners real
ized the situation. Then he resumed, "That, gentle
men, was the condition of affairs up to the night of the
murder.
"I thought over this crisis. I intimately knew most
of the men in the factory. Some of them had grown old
in its service. They were desperate and all because a
little man, a narrow-minded man, wished to make more
profit at the expense of faithful workers.
"I had gone that very day to see the lawyer father
occasionally employed—a man named Bauer. We
agreed to ask the Court to transfer to me the manage
ment of the factory. Father had stipulated that the
guardianship continue until I was twenty-four. He
thought I would be better equipped at that age to man
age the property. I was twenty-two and I decided to
make one more appeal to my uncle.
"I found him in the office. It was after closing hours.
He heard what I had to say regarding the factory. He
replied that I was very ungrateful, wished to cater to
the dictates of those men, and when I did come into
control it would be probably a case of 'a fool and his
THE PRISONER'S STORY 99
money.' I realized that words were useless and my mind
jumped to the Court decision. Would they grant my
petition ?
"Suddenly everything was blotted out. When I re
gained consciousness I was stretched out on the floor.
I sat up and looked around. Uncle was slouched over
in his chair. Near my hand lay a revolver. The sight
of Uncle cleared my mind. I arose and felt of his heart.
He gave one last gasp and died. At this instant the
porter opened the door, took in the tableau —Uncle,
my red hand, the revolver. 'So,' he said, 'You have mur
dered your uncle.' I heard the telephone call for police.
I looked around the room for some clue, some evi
dence, but the only unusual thing was a little round
object near Uncle's feet."
He ended his story abruptly and looked at Franz.
He had been telling the incidents to the Judge.
Franz nodded. "Yes, he has seen the object. It is in
my safe."
Morton concluded, "So you see, gentlemen, I am
guilty before the law. There is not a zephyr of sus
picion against anyone but myself. I had not one friend
but that in view of the evidence believed me guilty.
There was one friend I banked on standing by me, but
the evidence was too strong for him." *
He paused, then said, "I believe that hurt more than
the Court sentence."
The Judge gave a significant comprehending look
at Franz, then asked, "Who was the friend you believed
would stand by you?"
100 THE OPAL MATRIX
The prisoner glanced at the Judge, recalled from his
line of thought. He simply said, "He was Godfrey
Ranier."
Then in explanation, "We had been friends from
boyhood. The tie had loosened during my last two
years at college; he had been studying for the ministry.
In fact, he had only recently been ordained."
He paused, then added, "I suppose the association in
view of the evidence would have been a wet blanket to
his growing popularity."
"My boy," said the Judge, as he realized the deaden
ing, paralyzing effect of disappointment in idealized
friendship, "the discovery of the flaw of weakness in
human character is one of the most bitter experiences
in the school of life, and the recipient of the discovery
has gone far when the reaction of the discovery is not
bitterness, when he will say, 'There must have been
extenuating circumstances.'
"
Franz looked to the Judge for a plan of action.
The prisoner broke the silence. "Gentlemen, the case
is hopeless. Who, but me, had a motive for the crime?"
The Judge replied, "There may prove to be many
motives in connection with murder. It looks to me like
the fine-planned affair of a clever criminal. This case
may have many leads and we must not forget that little
object which Franz has locked in his safe. Tomorrow I
will send you a man of ability. Tell him the whole
story. Every little detail, whether you think it relates
or not. He will trace relations of events. And Franz,
I suggest that Morton assume a name, be attached to
the estate in some capacity, but, with a wave of his
THE PRISONER'S STORY 101
hand, the man I send you will attend to all those little
details."
He smiled at Morton, and said, "He may even give
you a new nationality —an insurance of safety."
XI
A FRIEND OF THE PRISONER
'HAT NIGHT Franz talked over the details of the
situation with Barbara.
"The Judge is interested in the case. He is favorably
impressed with Morton. Does not entertain a doubt of
Morton's innocence. Said the case must have been
badly bungled."
"But, Franz, he must be renamed at once and assume
his new personality. He will meet the children and the
servants. Find out how and where he can fit in, what
occupation he can engage in."
Franz, realizing the necessity of prompt adaptation,
returned to the little room over the garage and when
he left Morton had been transformed into a French
gardener, whose specialty was fruit and whose name
was Vincent. The choice had been made when it de
veloped that Morton spoke French fluently.
"Now," admonished Franz, as he was about to leave,
"practice the language, transform your personality.
You may need all these things suddenly, and you know
the crime expert selected by the Judge arrives to
morrow."
However, that efficient instrument of crime detec
103
A FRIEND OF THE PRISONER 103
tion was not destined to arrive tomorrow. A special
Providence seemed to be guiding the Morton case, for
next morning as the Judge was about to take a seat in
the morning train bound for the city, he was tapped on
the shoulder, and, turning, he confronted two gentle
men. One, an old friend of the bench, the other, a well-
dressed, dark-eyed young man who seemed the embodi
ment of latent energy. An unusually strong face which
held his gaze a moment while his friend was saying,
"Judge Alvin, you must know my young friend, the
Reverend Godfrey Ranier."
Then he added, as the two men clasped hands, "Peo
ple are talking about him, and they will continue to
talk."
Godfrey Ranier! The name was strangely familiar.
And then in a moment he connected up. So this force
ful character was George Morton's friend who had de
serted him in his great hour of need.
The Judge acknowledged the introduction, and the
conversation was general until the train rolled into the
station. They were separating for their destinations
when the Judge turned to Ranier.
"Would you mind going to my office for a few
moments' conversation ?"
He replied, with a look of surprise, "Why, Judge!
It will be a great pleasure."
He hesitated, then said, "I was about to ask you for
that privilege myself, the privilege of a talk with Judge
Alvin."
In his office he motioned Ranier to a chair, and his
first question was the crux of the purpose.
io4 THE OPAL MATRIX
"Mr. Ranier, before his conviction of murder, you
were a friend of George Morton?"
Ranier answered with narrowed eyes, "And I am a
friend of George Morton now."
He arose to his feet, in protest to challenge any state
ment to the contrary.
"Just a moment, Judge. I've stood my own censure
for two years. I don't want yours. I want your help, for
we are at the end of the road. It seems that there is
nothing more that can be done. Judge, listen to these
details, and then advise us. When the news flashed over
the wires that George Morton had murdered his uncle,
I was in a Western City, my first call. I caught the
midnight train home. When I reached the city I was
caught in a wreck and sent to the hospital. When I was
sufficiently recovered to leave, the trial was ended.
Sentence had been given and George had been sent to
the penitentiary. It was a very short trial. The evidence
seemed conclusive. The Jury rendered a unanimous
verdict on the first ballot and the case against George
Morton was closed.
"I did not know what to do or where to go, but I had
heard of the detective work of Lester McCain, so I
went to him."
"Yes," remarked the Judge, with an inquiring tone.
"You went to McCain, the very man I intended to get
on this case."
Ranier said, "I went to McCain and told him my
story. His reply was, 'You are wasting your money.
Everything points to his guilt. It is a complete case.
There are no side tracks.'
"
A FRIEND OF THE PRISONER 105
He continued, "I returned to the purpose of my
visit. 'McCain, I have heard of your ability. I am
getting a good salary. I will divide it with you. I want
you to find the guilty man that murdered Leonard
Morton. Here is the first thousand dollars. The Court
contends George is the only one who had a motive. I
want you to go into details and find the second person
who had a motive for that murder.'
"He considered the matter for some time, and finally
said, 'You win! If you have that much faith in your
friend, I am game to prove that you are right.'
"He went to work and in two months he reported.
He was very direct. He said, 'You were right. There
were others whose personal interests demanded the
death of Leonard Morton, but we can never prove
them guilty. They saw to every little detail before that
crime.'
"He thought it over and then said, 'I am up against
a keen brain, a clever crook. He has all tracks well
covered.' Consequently, I am very glad to have this
talk with you, Judge. You see, when I failed to stand
by George in his hour of need, I figured that if I could
prove that he was innocent of the crime—"
"I see; I see it all," exclaimed the Judge. "Godfrey
Ranier, I will tell you what to do and at once. You go
to George Morton and simply relate to him what you
have told me, for that information will be of far more
value to him than his freedom."
He grasped the hand of the Judge, then started for
the door. He paused and searched for a card which he
handed to Judge Alvin.
106 THE OPAL MATRIX
"One moment," requested the Judge. "Arrange for a
conference with McCain to take place at the Grayle
Estate at the earliest possible date and notify me."
He telephoned to Barbara to admit Godfrey Ranier
and to take him to the one he asked to see. And he
informed her that he would come home by early train
and acquaint them with new developments of the case.
When he arrived that night and entered the little
room over the garage, he found Godfrey Ranier and
George Morton sitting side by side engaged in quiet
conversation. Ranier wished to take George home with
him in his car.
"No," objected the Judge. "A safer place would be
hard to find. Every possible risk should be avoided."
In the late afternoon three days after the reunion
of the friends, there met in that little room Franz,
Judge Alvin, Godfrey Ranier, and George Morton, to
hear McCain's result of nearly two years search for the
murderer of Leonard Morton.
McCain was a brisk, direct man, and without pre
liminaries he seated himself at a desk facing his ex
pectant listeners, with a notebook for reference. He
commenced the report of his activities. "When I took
over this case, at the instigation of Mr. Ranier, I ex
pected to clear it all up in ten days or a month, at the
longest. I went at it in detail. I checked every statement
of witnesses and gave special attention to finger prints
on that revolver the shot came from, and the finger
prints were those of George Morton. I examined the
barrel for other finger prints, but it had been handled
too much.
A FRIEND OF THE PRISONER 107
"Next, I looked over motives and questioned many
people regarding where they were on the night of the
murder.
"Finally I came to the man who is running the fac
tory since the brother's death, one Alfred Bauer, a law
yer employed occasionally by George's father in a legal
capacity. A lawyer, now a machinist. When I first
saw him, he was giving someone detailed orders re
garding the machinery. So I naturally thought him the
foreman. My knowledge of his law connection came
later.
"I hung around the factory several days asking ques
tions and talking to different people. There was one
man who didn't fit. He looked alien, out of place. I
asked who he was and the man I asked the question of
looked me over and then replied, 'That is Sempf, Mr.
Bauer's man. He came with Mr. Bauer when he took
charge of the factory just after the murder.'
"
'And his duties?' I asked.
"He replied, 'Oh, he just keeps an eye on everything
and everybody, and if anything is wrong he reports
to Bauer.' Suddenly he exclaimed, 'Say, if Bauer knew
as much about law as he does about machinery —'
"
'Law ?' I inquired. He answered, 'Why Bauer was
Mr. Morton's lawyer and he got a court order to man
age the factory—and say!—does he know how to run
it?'
"That was my first lead. I checked up on Bauer, as
well as I could locally. He came to the city several years
before the murder and had a small back office and this
Sempf hung around the office as Bauer's handy as
io8 THE OPAL MATRIX
sistant. No one seemed to know where they came from,
so I started in to learn their history.
"One morning I called at the office and asked Bauer
what he knew about Sempf and where Sempf was the
night of the murder. He asked my authority. I showed
him my badge. At that and the information that we
were quietly checking up regarding the case, nat
urally we supposed that we had his willing co-opera
tion. He brightened up and expressed his desire to help
us in every way possible.
"He suddenly said, 'Why, I understood that Morton
had only two relatives in the world—the brother who
was killed, and his son, George, who is in the peniten
tiary.' I informed him they had friends who wished to
investigate every possible lead. 'Oh, I see. Now what
can I possibly do to help you ? Oh, yes, you asked about
Sempf. I met him two years ago and was able to help
him out of a serious mess and he was grateful to me
and has hung around me ever since. He is useful. I
pay his expenses and,' with a wave of his hand, 'a little
spending money. The night of the murder? I can
straighten that out, for Sempf drove me to Lancaster
the day before and when we returned the day after
the murder everyone was talking about it.'
"He turned to his desk, 'I believe I can give you evi
dence of the fact.' He searched among papers. 'Here
we are,' he said, and produced two vouchers which he
handed to me. He continued, 'The murder was the
17th and we were in Lancaster on the 17th and these
checks were in payment of some purchases I made
A FRIEND OF THE PRISONER 109
there.' 'Very good proof,' I answered, as I placed the
checks in my notebook. 'I'll return these tomorrow.
And at what hotel did you stop in Lancaster?' He
looked blank for a moment, then summoned his wits.
'Impossible to say—at one of the smaller hotels.'
"Then he called to a man entering the door—'Say,
Sempf, do you remember the name of the hotel we
stopped at while in Lancaster?'
"
'Certainly—the Clifton House.'
"Well, to make it short, I went to Lancaster. It all
checked too well. There were several leads that they
were planned alibis. When Sempf said, 'The Clifton
House,' I was looking past Bauer's face in the looking
glass and Sempf's face was one grin of triumph.
"I learned that Sempf had been so anxious that the
check which he gave in Lancaster be cashed on the same
day that he went to the bank to see that it did go
through.
"Well, gentlemen, it was nearly a blank, but I felt
that I was missing the clue. I needed photographs and
finger prints. That was a difficult job until I heard
that they were going on a fishing trip. I got the Sheriff
and had him arrest them as suspects. I sent him an
expert and he did a good job. I got my photographs and
their finger prints. Then I went to work. But what's
the use? To cut it short, I found out that they were
crooks with records, but I have no definite proof of their
connection with this case."
Ranier said, "It was fine work, McCain. You accom
plished all that could be done."
no THE OPAL MATRIX
The Judge nodded his head in agreement and the
meeting was at an end.
McCain's last words were, "It leaves a bitter taste
in my mouth —two crooks at large."
"Don't worry," consoled Ranier, "something will
turn up. They won't get away with it."
• *#*#*
When they left the conference, Franz, McCain and
Judge Alvin by instinctive agreement turned into the
path which led by Barbara's rose garden down to the
lake. It was a habit with Franz to take that path when
he wanted to think clearly. It wound around the border
of the lake, entered the heavy timber and continued
through the forest to a deep, rocky glen.
They had been walking along in silence when Franz
turned to the Judge. "All ordinary means having failed
to solve this mystery, I propose to resort to the unusual.
In one of my talks with Deamati, she said, 'Nothing
is hidden from the arrived individual.' I believe Dea
mati has the ability to clear this up in some way. Once
she told me that if I ever had a problem which I could
not solve to let her know; that it was possible she could
help me. That time has arrived."
"Yes," agreed the Judge, "that may be the solution.
If the matter is not solved, George Morton must spend
his life under an assumed name with always the lurk
ing fear of discovery. Assuming a new personality
might be successfully accomplished, but with that skele
ton in the background as a handicap, life would al
ways be a limited expression."
A FRIEND OF THE PRISONER in
That night two cablegrams were dispatched to India.
One read:
Deamati Korali:
Your presence needed. Particulars apply Leigh,
American Consul, Darjeeling.
The other:
Dear Leigh: (Wilfred Leigh was an intimate
friend of Judge Alvin)
Procure transportation and Five Hundred Dol
lars. New York. Deamati Korali. Collect One
Thousand American Express Company."
Some days later the Judge telephoned Franz, "I have
a cablegram from Leigh. It reads, 'Transportation and
money delivered Deamati Korali. En route Seven
teenth,' and that," declared the Judge, "means all de
tails satisfactorily arranged."
As the days passed by, Morton, as Vincent, the French
gardener, assumed his place in the Grayle Estate. New
varieties of fruit trees were planted in the growing
orchard. Landscape decorations required attention. The
children became interested in the new gardener and
Barbara offered suggestions of possible improvements
in plans. She was favorably impressed with the quiet,
intelligent young man.
Godfrey Ranier often called and occasionally they
left the estate for a long ride in Ranier's gray car. It
was deemed safe, as a deep coat of tan, a lengthened
112 THE OPAL MATRIX
growth of dark hair and a mustache had quite trans
formed the sullen-faced prisoner who had faced Franz
demanding the clothes he wore.
So time passed placidly without pronounced develop
ments until the arrival of Deamati.
XII
THE COMING OF DEAMATI
THE
JUDGE had telephoned Barbara, "A guest this
evening—a surprise." And hours later he had
ushered in Deamati. A rather small, well-rounded,
gipsy-looking personality. A personality which seemed
to lend to the atmosphere of her vicinity a purpose, a
placid calmness of significance —a presence which dom
inated attention without asking it.
Franz took her hand with the pleased surprise of a
recovered friend, while she, without a word, looked
into his face and eyes as if to read his course of life
during the long interlude. Then he turned to Barbara
and said, "My wife."
Deamati looked at Barbara a long second. She did
not say, "Mrs. Grayle." She said, "My dear," and those
two words contained a world of meaning. They com
prised her personality, her life, her experience, and the
wholesomeness of it all.
They clasped hands with a wordless understanding.
A few moments of silence, then Barbara said, "Your
room." It was Deamati who took Barbara's arm pro-
tectingly, and they disappeared.
And thus commenced an affinitized association of
wholesome intelligence which continued for many
"3
ii4 THE OPAL MATRIX
weeks. Days passed during which Deamati became
somewhat acquainted with her new environment. Oc
casional trips to the city, calls on some of Barbara's
friends, talks with Vincent and often with Godfrey
Ranier, who came to see his friend.
But the coming of Deamati changed the atmosphere
of the place. It did not change the wholesomeness of
the home. It seemed to give more purpose to life, a
reason to existence, an added value to action. Her quiet
presence seemed to lend an expectancy to possibilities,
a command to attention. Deamati charmed the chil
dren, who felt the fascination of a mystery which they
could not comprehend.
Soon after her arrival she said to Barbara, with the
simplicity of a child, "The beauty of it all!"—indicat
ing the lake and forest. "Our scenery is so wild, so
rugged—may I walk in the early morning?"
And Barbara had half whispered, wonderingly,
"Why, Deamati! Here the liberty of this home is yours.
May I"— Then she hesitated.
"May you walk with me ? Of a surety you shall. You
shall be Noli of my home; we will enjoy the opening
dawn and the closing day. Those quiescent periods of
the day when the mysteries seem near to visibility and
fhe vitalities can be inbreathed. The quiescent periods
and the activities of the day in between."
And thus Barbara joined Deamati in those morning
walks. And the sunrise, and the strange talks which
she only half understood, and the mysterious things
she heard entered into her mind, and vitality into her
blood.
THE COMING OF DEAMATI 1.15
One day she told her husband, "Franz, we only half
exist. Deamati is alive. She seems to be in tune with
vitality."
They were all assembled one evening, when Barbara
asked, "Deamati, this wonderful health—was it always
yours r
Deamati answered, "We grow; we evolve into all
abilities. But humanity squanders and scatters force in
stead of conserving it. A growing bank account of en
ergy is a magnetic battery of force for operation. It is
not an accumulation for squandering. Did you ever
read that strange tale by Haggard 'She'? Well, that
was not altogether the fantastic imaginings of a crea
tive brain. There was a kernel of truth in the powers
of 'She.' Some day I will show you how personally ac
quired ability can lift the veil and reveal the past his
tory of a man. The buried history of his past, and, per
haps if we can obtain the right subject, we can show
how his present destiny is the result of his past acts."
Ranier, who had failed to find George in his room,
had walked in with Judge Alvin. His interest in Dea-
mati's conversation was evident. He leaned forward
in an attitude of interested inquiry.
"Yes," Deamati continued, "America, with few ex
ceptions, is not interested in spiritual law. Her people
are so absorbed in material riches and trivial pleasures
that the realities of life are simply dreams for some
future attainment."
The Judge smiled with a meaning glance at Franz,
who also had noticed Ranier 's interest.
Ranier asked, "What reliance could be placed in any
n6 THE OPAL MATRIX
information obtained from an entranced subject? I
suppose that is what you mean."
"Oh, no," returned Deamati, "an entranced subject
could not tell you anything. The obsessed entity would
do the talking and any information would be governed
by his plane experience. An obsessed entity could tell
you nothing of the subject's former life's activities. I
am referring to my ability to draw from the subject's
sub-conscious mind the history of his long-ago personal
life, and the relation of his acts in that life to his posi
tion and present status in this."
Ranier, in a puzzled, perplexed way drew his hand
across his brow, saying, "His past life."
"Certainly, his past life! You surely don't believe in
a nine months' creation of a human soul, with its mil
lions of undeveloped potentialities?"
The Judge spoke to Franz, "I believe if you will bring
George over he may be interested in this conversation.
Inform him that Ranier is here."
George Morton had avoided the home, although he
talked freely to all who first talked to him, and the
Judge felt pleased to see him enter the room with Franz.
His bow included all present, as he quietly joined the
circle listening to Deamati.
"Yes," went on Deamati, "life is a continuing process
and it is not interrupted very long by that transition
which you call 'death.' The activities of physical life
are simply transferred to another plane of existence.
And to the person who has made the change, that
realm is just as solid and real as the earth plane is to us.
THE COMING OF DEAMATI 117
"You go to Europe. You see, you know, you realize
conditions of the country, the people's classifications.
Those who cannot go must be satisfied with descrip
tions and maps. There are many who have faculties
which permit them to know of the life beyond, with
out maps."
Deamati opened a hand-bag and took from it a
small, oblong object, which looked like a coal of fire.
She handed it to Barbara. "See what you can see in the
depth of this fire opal. Look into the fire."
It was looked into and passed from one to the other
until it was handed to George Morton. He held it at
varying angles while he gazed. At length he said, "It
seems to change in size, to grow larger."
Deamati arose and said, "Let me hold it."
She took it in her left hand, held it on a level with
his eyes. As he continued to look into the opal, she
moved her right hand over his head. Slowly his eyes
began to close. He swayed slightly. She placed her
bunched fingers on the center of his forehead, spoke
some low words in his ear and he lapsed into a dead
sleep. She motioned for a cushion, placed it to support
his head, and turned to the waiting group.
Many delightful and instructive days had passed since
Deamati had arrived at the Grayle Estate and become
an important member of the family circle, and Franz
had not mentioned the nature of the real cause for her
summons.
Two days before the eventful evening Deamati had
met Franz alone down by the lake and had asked,
n8 THE OPAL MATRIX
"What is that mathematical equation, this problem
which Franz Grayle cannot solve without my assist
ance?"
Franz laughed, as he admired her gipsy-like whole-
someness. He said, "Come over to this seat, Deamati,
and I will explain the problem, this puzzle, the solu
tion of which is so important. It is because we are
jealous of Asia, and we got up this scheme to transfer
you to America."
She had lifted up her head and gave a ringing, silvery
laugh, replying, "So there can be romance to abduc
tion?"
Then he became serious and related the events before
the murder. The conclusive evidence, the short trial,
sentence, and final escape. He then told her who Vin
cent really was, the unusual capture, and Ranier's re
lation to it all. He ended the recital with McCain's
long months of detective work.
When Deamati had heard the whole story, she was
quiet for a while, then exclaimed, "Those cumbersome
methods of detection. Do they never resort to human
faculties of perception for the discovery and detection
of guilt?"
"No," replied Franz. "No court would accept such
evidence. The court demands facts of personal knowl
edge."
As she faced the expectant listeners and glanced at
the sleeping Vincent she thought of Franz' descrip
tion of the murder. The long search for clues to its
solution. She said, with a little, decided nod of her
head, "So you need evidence? Well, we shall see!"
THE COMING OF DEAMATI
She turned to the sleeping man and spoke strange
words into his ear. She continued this strange talk
some minutes, then the talk seemed to change to def
inite questions which required answers. Low, at first,
scarcely audible, and then more pronounced, clearer.
Deamati had been leaning over the sleeping man with
her hand on his wrist, as though to impart to him her
strength. Gradually she withdrew her hand and ad
dressed the sleeper.
"Listen well. This is very important. It means much
to you; it means much to your friends. Be alert! Get
every detail. You are to go on a journey. You know
Leonard Morton. On April 17th he goes from his home
to his office at the factory. Follow him, report to me
every act, everything which occurs in that office."
She placed her thumb on his forehead and said,
"Go!"
Each sentence was a command, followed by a pause,
and when she said, "Go," there was silence and waiting.
The silence and the waiting continued for breathless
minutes. All watched the sleeper and suddenly as they
watched, his lips moved without sound. They made the
motions of words. Then Deamati stretched out her hand
and placed it on his wrist. His lips formed words. Then
came monotone sounds like a deaf person's. Finally
words were distinguishable.
"Leonard Morton is in his office. He is looking over
papers. He sorts them into groups. He reads one and
says, 'Outrageous extravagance!' He continues to sort
letters. Suddenly he looks up and says, 'Come in.' Caller
is George Morton.
120 THE OPAL MATRIX
"
'Good evening, Uncle,' says George, 'I want one
more talk with you regarding the factory.'
"'It is no use, George; I will not turn the factory
over to your extravagant management.'
"
'Uncle, if you don't, the men are going to walk
out.'
"
'Well, they will be mighty glad to walk back again.
I've made up my mind to see this thing through, and
I am going to do it.'
"He turns to sorting papers. George is thinking.
Door opens slowly. The lawyer looks in. They do not
see him. Door opens quickly. He jumps into the room,
strikes George down. Morton turns, 'You have killed
my nephew.'
"
'Well, you will inherit the property. You know he
couldn't run the factory.'
"Morton reaches for telephone. Lawyer jumps to a
drawer, holds a revolver. 'Drop that.' Morton slowly
pushes telephone back with his left hand and turns to
face lawyer. His right hand is feeling over the desk,
as he watches lawyer with the revolver. He finds a card,
writes and pushes it under desk cover.
"
'Old man, you have said lots of prayers. Got one
for yourself? You're going to need it.'
"
'My God! Would you kill a man in his own office ?'
"
'Some might call it that, but it's a quick process.
I'm a dead shot, and I think I'll take charge of this
outfit.'
"
'You "will hang for this, you scoundrel.'
"'Oh, no, I won't! I'm in Lancaster. So don't let a
THE COMING OF DEAMATI
little thing called Murder worry your last moments.
Are you ready?'
"
'Shoot—you coward.'
"Smoke in the room; lawyer wipes revolver carefully.
Wraps paper around barrel, takes George's right hand
and places it around revolver handle, presses fingers
against handle. Looks around the room, moves revolver
with toe of shoe, walks around George, looks over
things, nods head and goes out door."
Deamati stroked the head of the sleeper. The talking
ceased. She turned to the silent, watching group. "You
have listened to the facts of a crime for which this man
served two years in prison."
For a few moments the sleeper lay motionless, then
the eyes opened and he looked vacantly around the
room.
The Judge nodded in approval of the satisfactory
knowledge. He said to Franz, "It now looks like a
more solvable problem. Communicate with McCain at
once. The blotter on that desk must be looked into, or
rather under."
Ranier seemed too stunned for speech. He looked
from one to the other. Finally he went to George, who
could not understand all the interest which he had
caused.
"Godfrey, what is it all about —what has happened?"
"About," repeated his friend, groping for a solution.
"What did you dream about, what did you talk of in
your sleep?"
Deamati coming up at that moment heard the last
122 THE OPAL MATRIX
question. "George does not know what he talked about.
You must tell him. He was sent on an errand. I took
what they say at Monte Carlo, 'a gamble,' and he came
through. It is not everyone that can come through."
She gave her hand to George, saying, "I congratulate
you on your advancement. I rather forced a forward
step in the development of a faculty."
She was looking at him in approval. Then, "You,
in the future, may have rather strange dreams. Think
over these dreams. Rationalize them with the facts of
life. Your enforced period of unjust detention may
prove the reverse to a check in development."
Turning to Franz she said, "This is the first human
faculty application to solving the case, but there is one
other we must get—that man called 'Sempf.' That will
give the angle of that alibi."
Ranier and George were preparing to depart and yet
Ranier lingered. He watched Deamati conversing with
Franz, Barbara, and the Judge. Then he decided and
went over to Deamati.
"May I have a talk with you tomorrow? I want to
ask questions."
"Certainly," she replied, with a litde laugh at his
eager face. "We will hope to answer them satisfactorily."
XIII
GODFREY RANIER MEETS A NEW IDEA
GODFREY
RANIER was an only son. His parents
were respected residents of a small city, not rich,
but in good circumstances. They were members of an
Orthodox Church and interested in many of its ac
tivities.
They decided when Godfrey was young that their
only son should be a Minister. Godfrey at an early age
was fluent of speech. Later he led in school debates
and theatricals. Consequently, he naturally followed
the line of least resistance, and in due time was ordained
a Minister of the Gospel.
But it proved to be a wavering path of progress, for
with his mind bent toward science, invention, research,
and advanced thought in general, he soon realized that
his creed limited his enlarging vision. Consequently,
his sermons developed an argumentative phase, an in
stinctive effort to harmonize the progressive knowl
edge of science with his orthodox base.
The accelerated adulation of static gray matter was
not what his congregation desired or demanded. They
wanted the familiar rendition and reiteration of the
satisfying beliefs of their fathers, and Godfrey was
123
i24 THE OPAL MATRIX
promptly made to see the error of his course of educa
tion.
A rich visiting relative of one of his parishioners,
who had on several occasions heard Godfrey's dis
courses, fully realized his position. Her home church
was in quest of a pleasing exponent of intellectual vi
sion, and she was instrumental in a call to Godfrey
Ranier.
He promptly responded to this call to a wider field,
and resigned from his too limited sphere for a more
congenial environment, where his abilities expanded
in the sunshine of admiration and approval.
Such is a pen picture of Godfrey, who arrived at ten
o'clock in the morning of the next day at the Grayle
Estate.
Franz and the Judge were in the city. Barbara was
engaged, and when he asked for Deamati, he was in
formed that she had walked in the direction of the
lake.
Then he might see her alone. Exactly what he
wanted. It would be rather difficult and rather embar
rassing to ask some of the questions regarding which
he wanted information before the Judge or Franz.
He quickened his pace along the path by the lake
and at an acute angle of the road he found her look
ing out over the water. When she saw him she mo
tioned. He approached and together they looked out
at the view presented.
"Beautiful!" she exclaimed.
It was cool. A light breeze rippled the water. There
was an occasional splash of a fish in the distance. The
GODFREY RANIER MEETS A NEW IDEA 125
call of a bird, the shadow of a cloud over the water,
an eagle circling in the sky. They watched these ever-
changing lights and shadows for a time silently, then
turned into the path which led to rustic seats placed
for the most favorable view.
As they selected one of the seats, she remarked, "So
you wanted to ask questions? What questions could
possibly bother a man on such a day as this ? Isn't the
mere fact of existence enough without questioning?"
"Perhaps," he replied, as he looked at her poised
face, which was again turned to the lake, "perhaps that
is enough for Deamati. She seems to know secrets of
nature, perhaps she knows more."
"The urge for accelerated progress," she said, nod
ding her head slowly, as she turned toward him, "and
you?" She paused on the upward inflection, "Would
like to know some of the secrets of nature? Have you
arrived at the period of your development when you
are ready to pay the price?"
"The price?" he repeated, in wonderment.
"Yes, the price," she replied, "perhaps a life or two
of devotion to the ideal. Adherence to strict rules for
building the body into a perfect instrument. Long
training to cultivate perception of subtle vibrations. To
train the brain into the ability to respond to calls. Do
you think the secrets of nature are revealed to the non-
arrived?"
He silently tried to comprehend such a task as she
pictured. She smiled at his bewilderment.
"Oh, no, my friend, you don't want to know the
secrets of nature. You need to know the knowledge of
126 THE OPAL MATRIX
The Plan, then fall in love with Mother Nature and
grow into knowledge of law, and the secrets of nature
will reveal themselves like removing masks from men's
eyes.
He looked at her smiling face which regarded him
with the leniency of a mother whose child had asked
her for the moon. He felt a mingling of strange emo
tions. Resentment—resentment that she should regard
him as a child. Fascination, and a keen desire which
dominated all other emotions. She noticed the sweep
of his emotions and his perplexity.
"Yes, my friend, I said you need knowledge of The
Plan. You need not only to know, you need to realize,
and let that realization sink into your consciousness.
You must realize something of this wonderful earth
and its varied forms of life, visible life, and life invisible.
You must realize that all this is the result of hundreds
of millions of years, ages upon ages and again long
ages, in the formation of types and faculties. Patterns
of faculties.
"There were long ages of absorption through instinct.
Can you think of the reason for that absorption? And
then the earliest forms of migratory life, and then the
long journey up through instinct, emotion, up to the
dawning of intellectual perception. And then the climax
of the evolutionary effort.—A human being. Humanity,
the culminating peak of evolutionary effort.
"Did you ever wonder, did you ever consider what
the source and from whence was derived the material
(you have no adequate word to describe it in English)
—the something which culminated in the creation, the
GODFREY RANIER MEETS A NEW IDEA 127
formation of a human soul ? Before that creation there
were groups, but when the individual emerged from the
group, he was launched upon the evolutionary path
as an entity, to continue until a final graduation."
She nodded her head at him. "That is one little
glimpse of the plan. Instinct, emotion, up to intellect,
through intellect up to the spiritual perception, and at
the climax of intellectual perception are the secrets of
nature.
"And you who lack the kindergarten basis for build
ing faculties and capacities would ask for the secrets of
nature which are climaxed attainment of preparedness ?
'Of suitable proficiency' has a definite and significant
meaning."
Ranier stared at Deamati in a dreamlike wonder. He
considered the difference between Deamati's ideas and
religious teachings. Finally he gave expression to his
thought.
"And our religious teachings, are they inadequate?
Do they fall short of imparting the necessary knowl
edge as spiritual guidance?"
Deamati replied, "Your religions are to a great extent
contrived instruments of spiritual guides to lead non-
intellectually developed childhood, of the race into the
ways of constructive living. And they were led through
promises, threats, allegories, and mysteries. Religions
are handed down efforts for guidance for people —peo
ple immersed in emotional life, with instinctive tend
encies.
"All religions are trades. You do this, and your re
ward will be so and so, still on the instinctive plane."
128 THE OPAL MATRIX
"Where your religions leave off the higher initiation
begins. The aspirant seeking knowledge of the mys
teries and the forces of nature must possess what you
call all the Christian virtues, as his recommendation of
admission. The purpose of religion is to teach people
to live the constructive life. The purpose of occult teach
ing is to elucidate the mysteries and forces of nature
and to teach the ability to manipulate those forces."
And Ranier said, "You spoke of the soul of man and
its origin."
"Yes," she replied, "the soul of man evolved —growth
of the soul —through species to the primitive savage,
from the savage to the tribe, and up to intellect. Then
the dawn of spiritual vision and the flowering of the
higher faculties. Why," she exclaimed, after a pause,
"the evidence lies everywhere. The fcetus of the unborn,
the rudiment of outgrown organs in the human body.
The boy in his early years re-lives his primitive tenden
cies. The actions of a man in emotional anger revert to
his old savage instincts.
"A great teacher gave this convincing key to under
standing the problem when he said, 'Scientists are work
ing on material bodies, fossils, species, types. They fail
to trace the juice which runs the machine, the animat
ing spirit which inhabited the forms.' And he might
have added the animating spirit which progressed
through forms."
She paused. He was silent, and she watched the ex
pression on his face. Suddenly he asked, "And God—
where is God in this scheme?"
GODFREY RANIER MEETS A NEW IDEA 129
She said, "My friend, you have asked for advanced
knowledge. You have heard, 'Where Angels fear to
tread'? The finite mind is limited in its capacity of
understanding. A rational comprehension of God is to
a certain extent limited to the concrete expression of
His existence. God is the evidence of all existence. All
life is an infinitesimal part of divinity. The Sanskrit
states, 'God is the soul which resideth in the body of
every human being.'
"The great teachers have tried to give knowledge of
that mystery and gave explanations on the level of
human understanding, 'God is the ocean, and humanity
is individual drops of that ocean, one in all, and some
of all in each one.'
"Another teacher explaining the nature of the Divine
to his pupils said, 'Thou art
it,
grow thou into the like
ness of thy Father.'
"The teachings of the masters have greatly clarified
the conception of divinity. Everything
is
the expression
of spirit force, or God, back of it. 'Until the highest
expression of spirit force on the earth plane, man, began
to manufacture, there was no expression of intellect.
Previous to that point the expression of spirit force
was instinct.' The time has passed for intellect to be
cramped
by
considering God
a
personality.
"The vast universe and unlimited space, governed
by
a
personality which
is
resident in all life, from
a
Master to the infinitely small life germ of
a
seed,
is
an
impossibility to intellectual conception. But when the
mind grasps the idea of vibratory, creative spirit-force,
130 THE OPAL MATRIX
pervading all space and forcing all things into mani
festation, then follows a vision of majestic, harmonious
order."
The second evening following Deamati's talk with
Ranier, there were gathered at the Grayle home those
principally interested in establishing the innocence of
George Morton regarding his uncle's murder. There
were present Judge Alvin, Franz, Barbara, Deamati,
Morton, Ranier, and McCain. The latter was to report
the results of his inspection of the desk in the factory
office.
He was the last to arrive and his face proclaimed his
success before he gave the particulars. He had taken a
witness to attest the fact of finding the note, should
Morton's wonderful message prove to be really a fact.
That note, Leonard Morton's last message to the world,
written stealthily by his unseen hand, while he gazed
at the point of a revolver; a revolver which a second
later brought death.
McCain commenced, "When we arrived at the fac
tory, everything was humming with noise and running
machinery. We went through the factory and ap
proached the office inside the yard. It was early and the
office gate had not been opened. As we approached the
the door I saw Bauer sitting at the desk. He turned as I
stepped in the door and for a second he showed a con
cerned look of apprehension. That look passed in an
instant and he said, in a cheery tone, 'Hello, McCain,
is that you ? Are you still looking for clues ? Well, this
is my busy day. I'm leaving, the office is yours.'
"He stepped out the door but returned in an instant
GODFREY RANIER MEETS A NEW IDEA 131
to say, 'McCain, if you see the ghost of that old fellow,
ask him how's tricks over there.' And with a laugh he
was gone.
"With my witness on guard in the door, I turned to
inspect the desk. On the top of the desk was a card
board affair with leather corners to admit the slipping
in of new blotters. There was a new blotter in place
and my heart gave a queer twist of disappointment. I
slipped out one corner of the blotter. There was nothing
there, and I then loosened a tack at the corner and be
neath it between the cardboard holder of the blotter and
the desk was one postal card and scribbled across the
address was written, 'Bauer has just killed George.' That
was all—not another word or a date. I slipped that card
in my notebook and we left."
The card passed from one hand to another, as each
one curiously inspected the last written word of Leonard
Morton, establishing the truth of that strange message
which Deamati had received from a sleeping man.
The Judge looked long at the scrawled card and con
sidered the circumstances which brought it to light. He
finally said, "The dependability of evidence obtained
from witnesses must always be considered as biased by
self-interest. When our courts can depend on developed
human faculties to ascertain truth, there will be more
justice in verdicts. Now we know the actual facts of
this case. Knowledge obtained through Deamati's in
strumentality, and confirmed by the discovery of this
evidence. We can now centralize on the main issue."
Franz had left the group and was busy with the com
bination of his safe. When he returned he handed Dea
i32 THE OPAL MATRIX
mati a little round object, stating, "If we had the history
of this object, it might throw light on many things."
She took what he handed her, changed her position
to a chair a little distance from the group, held the ob
ject first in her two hands, then held it in her left hand.
For sometime she sat quiet, with her eyes closed. Then
with one finger she signaled for the group to come
nearer, and chairs were quietly moved and everyone
waited in suspense. She commenced speaking.
"I see this object being made. The material, a hard
shell or a large nut, or sea bean. It is made in two halves;
it is joined with great care. A hole is made through both
halves with a round pin tightly fitting and having a
cap. One cap to turn on other end of pin, when pin is
inserted through the two halves. When finished the two
halves turn on the pin. The heads of the pin are sunk on
each side and a round piece of shell is exactly fitted into
each side to cover the sunken pin holes. At the edge a
section is cut through both halves and a section fitted
in like a key block in a puzzle.
"The man making this is tall, has light hair, a red,
raised scar on left cheek. He has very light gray eyes
with small black pupils. He has bony hands, with large
joints. He traces a design on this, commencing at the
key block."
She paused a while, as if watching passing scenes.
"I see him in rooms of machinery going from one task
to another, often directing men."
Pause.
"I see him in a uniform with many other men in uni
form. Prisoners, not soldiers. He is in another country.
GODFREY RANIER MEETS A NEW IDEA 133
He has several associates —men of his stamp. They are
often together at night. Their manner seems criminal.
Then—he is associated with reading and books, he is in
a small, poorly furnished office."
She ceased talking and commenced a curious, minute
inspection of the object she held.
"Yes, this has a key, if I can find it. Does that de
scription fit anyone you know ?"
Morton replied, "It certainly fits one man I know. It
is a perfect description of lawyer Bauer."
"Yes," confirmed McCain, "there is no doubt as to the
identity. The scar, the gray eyes with black points."
"One more link in the chain of evidence," said the
Judge, "the astral trip, the psychometrized object, and
next —how will we contrive the next link?"
"I believe," exclaimed Franz, "that I have a plan to
get that last link."
Franz, Judge Alvin, and McCain withdrew to work
the details of that plan. Meanwhile, Ranier had been
glancing at Deamati. He was anxious to renew the trend
of their conversation, a trend which he felt as a minister
in his position he could only discuss alone. Her talk
had opened up the vision of a new world. A vast do
main, new meanings, new angles of approach. His old
views seemed small and contracted. He felt a little sting
of conscience, like heresy. But the enlarged vision in
trigued. It meant liberty, co-operation, expansion. The
old creeds seemed static, contracted, fossilized.
His was no sudden awakening, with leisure for analy
sis. It was a bombshell explosion in his beautifully or
ganized, classically arranged, oratorical garden. His first
134 THE OPAL MATRIX
feeling was bitter resentment against Deamati for man
aging such a rude awakening. His was such a lionized
position. But the attraction, the lure of knowledge was
the stronger emotion.
Deamati sensed his conflict. She had engineered many
assaults on entrenched ignorance, and she planned her
attacks with the adroitness of a general planning a
campaign.
She arose, approached him and asked, "Shall we walk
out in the moonlight ?"
"With pleasure," he responded, and side by side they
walked out into the fragrant air with its sounds of the
night, the chorus of crickets, the far-off bass notes of
frogs, the distant bark of a dog, the neigh of a horse.
As Deamati listened, she exclaimed, "The sociability
of the low country, where all things are related."
They walked in silence for a time—she waiting for
the expression of his thoughts. Finally he commenced :
"Deamati, your ideas, which are revolutionary to my
education, are exceedingly disturbing to my line of pro
cedure. I realize the rational, harmonious sweep, the
bigness of it all, and my desire is keen to share in such
knowledge —but how can I proceed in this new line of
which you have given me a vision ? And in honor con
tinue an exponent and leader of the old line doctrine ?
"I have won an enviable position in my calling. My
congregation has honored me with their belief in my
ability to cater to their intellectual demands."
As Ranier said "intellectual demands" he could not
see the quiet smile which dimpled Deamati's gipsy face.
GODFREY RANIER MEETS A NEW IDEA 135
She said, "Will you tell me something of the source
of your lectures to these people —how your talks, your
instructions to them, are built up? You see, I am ig
norant on such subjects. Are all of your places of wor
ship alike?"
He promptly replied, "Oh, no, not alike. There are
many denominations. There is one Book. All denom
inations have the same Book. Sermons, or instructions
to people are taken from the same Book, some verse, or
a chapter of verses from this Book —the Bible. Different
denominations place different interpretations on the con
tents of this Book. Some religious denominations retain
a Creed of Beliefs formulated by the founders of the
faith. Others have omitted this creed as obsolete, belong
ing to the past—outgrown. My church does not belong
to any denomination. It is independent. The collective
membership select their minister for his ability, his
culture, his pleasing personality. He derives his sermons
from the Bible and he includes in his addresses, essays
on morals, conformity to law, ethics of life, in fact, he
gives his personal idea of constructive living and uni
versal information."
Deamati asked, "Do I understand that your Church
is not bound to conformity of sects ? It is not subject to
the restriction of formulated rule?"
"That explains the position of my church very cor
rectly. It is independent. My church has discarded the
formality to creeds, which they consider as obsolete."
"My friend," said Deamati, "you are in an ideal posi
tion to impart real knowledge to your people. To be a
136 THE OPAL MATRIX
leader of advanced thought, of new ideas. Your congre
gation must be ready for advanced knowledge when
they have discarded creeds and mythology.
"You will find the difference in religions is the ad
mixture of mythology which they contain. Religions
which stress their mythology content, instead of their
spiritual import, cater to emotional reason instead of in
tellectual perception. I feel confident that your religious
literature contains a spiritual basis of law. A minister
who caters to a desire for spiritual knowledge and ig
nores the mythology is the leader which people need.
You, my friend, have an opportunity. You have a mis
sion.
"Remember this—when in the life of the individual
superstitious affinity has lost its pull of attractions and
that individual has advanced to the point of intellectual
inquiry, he is ready for progressed knowledge, and a
law, which you call 'chance,' caters to his need for in
struction.
"No, my friend, we did not meet by chance. 'Chance'
is a word of the uninformed. It was not chance that you
hold the position which you now occupy. There are also
reasons why your place should be well filled."
He did not reply when she waited for his answer, so
she resumed:
"I must give you a series of lectures to prepare for the
work you may accomplish. You must know of things,
some things, you will not teach, but which are necessary
for you to know. You must know of Pranic Energy and
something of its manipulation, of the subtle ethers
which combine with other forces to make visible sub
GODFREY RANIER MEETS A NEW IDEA 137
stance. You must know of the positive and negative
forces of the human body and their interrelations, the
centers of force. You remember that I told you that real
occult knowledge commenced where religions leave
off ? Religions teach the constructive life. Occult teach
ings are imparted only to those whose constructive life
is their basis of recommendation. Yes, it is good to teach
men truths. It builds up much karmic credit to the
teacher."
Ranier was silent. He felt a mental paralysis as he
listened. It was all a kaleidoscopic vision of another
world. A vision of forces in nature which he had never
dreamed of.
"Why," he replied—then hesitated.
She said, "And you knew nothing of these things, and
you are a teacher?"
"I guess," he answered, "that I have been a manipu
lator of oratorical verbiage, instead of ideas."
"Never mind," she consoled him. "You shall have
basic knowledge of these things. I will furnish you a
compass by which you may chart your own voyages of
discovery. First, the plan and the keys. The details of
abilities may come later."
They had been walking along the path by the lake
returning toward the lights of home. The sounds of the
night were more attracting when conversation ceased.
Deamati was thinking of it all. Turning to Ranier she
said, "How strangely woven is the web of destiny ! This
murder, the unjust sentence—the long, long months de
prived of liberty and friends. Seemingly tangled threads
to a destined end. How the desires of men blend with
138 THE OPAL MATRIX
and kaleidoscopically fit in with the purposes of nature !
To be summoned from India to solve a crime and to
find the keystone situation to a new development, a new
understanding of the old, old knowledge!"
XIV
GODFREY GETS A VISION
THE
CHILDREN, as well as Barbara, had come
under the spell of Deamati's charms. Every after
noon they would stroll out to some interesting nook
and she would tell them stories of Indian life and folk
lore. The evening of her morning's talk with Ranier
it had rained, so the stories were resumed indoors. Bar
bara, curious as to the spell which held the children
Deamati's admiring attendants, joined the story group.
Understanding smiles passed between the women re
garding the children's attraction and attention, so when
at the supper table that night Deamati told Barbara, "To
morrow night I commence the education of a minister,"
she related the gist of her talk with Ranier.
Barbara expressed a wish to hear those lectures, or, as
she expressed
it,
"those fascinatingly told stories of the
law."
"You most certainly shall. We'll have
a
class," she
declared. "Oh,
it
was exceedingly interesting to watch
the evidence of his mental process! He mentally rebelled
at many of my statements, but the logic all harmonized
with adjusting clicks. His interest to know the assailing
enemy weakened his entrenchment, and he was cap
139
i4o THE OPAL MATRIX
tured—irretrievably lost. He became a disciple of the
law."
She paused for an appreciative laugh. "Yes, his urge
for knowledge overcame his reluctance to being taught.
When the portals to the Hall of Knowledge are once
passed by the adventuring mind in quest of truth, that
love of knowledge becomes an unquenchable thirst. It's
like being launched on the evolutionary trend—it con
tinues until a final graduation. You see," she explained,
"the love of spiritual knowledge does not end with its
possession. There are always affinitizing attachments to
complete it."
Franz, who had been listening with much interest to
Deamati's description of her conversation with Ranier,
remarked, "I must have a little conversation with that
Gentleman of the Cloth and remove his very natural
reluctance to having witnesses to his extension in knowl
edge, his excursion into the realm of real facts."
Consequently when Ranier arrived in the late after
noon, intending to have a short visit with George be
fore his evening with Deamati, he was received by
Franz, who said, "Come, take a turn by the lake; I
want to tell you a little story."
It was down by the lake—that lake which had heard
many unusual conversations and was destined to hear
many more—that Franz commenced.
"Ranier, perhaps you don't know that I was instru
mental in bringing Deamati here from the mountains
of central India to solve this murder mystery. McCain
had his suspicions —everything pointed to his guilt. It
was in the air, but he had not one conclusive connecting
GODFREY GETS A VISION
link; he had not one positive fact of Bauer's guilt to
present to Court.
"I met Deamati in India under the most dramatic cir
cumstances, and through her I witnessed what you
might call a miracle. It was Deamati who rationalized
me to a harmonious life. She is a manipulator of forces
of nature which you read about in strange tales of the
Alchemists. Her life is not built upon theory. Life to
Deamati is a realm of reality. I believed that her ability
could solve this murder, and I asked her to come to
America; she did not know why I wanted her, but she
considered that it was a matter of importance, and she
started at once.
"Well—you know she contrived to reveal the real
facts of the murder. Now we are working on proofs of
those facts to present to Court. Yes," continued Franz,
as he thought over the problem, "my meeting with
Deamati was in the nature of an Arabian Night's Tale."
And he repeated to the silently interested listener the
details of that meeting.
"But for my knowledge derived from Deamati I
probably would be today afflicted with wanderlust, seek
ing forgetfulness in adventure."
As Franz and Ranier returned from their turn by the
lake—Ranier going to the library for his appointment
with Deamati, Franz detained him with, "Ranier, you
are a fortunate man to win a receptive attitude with
Deamati. Her active interest in people seems to be con
fined to those who have arrived at the parting of the
ways; at the rise of the grade, and are looking for signs
of procedure. As she, in India, years ago foresaw my
142 THE OPAL MATRIX
future and laughingly hinted at details which she would
not reveal, so now she probably realizes your arrival at
a climaxial point of destiny."
He laughingly said, "Deamati's interest in you is your
recommendation to me. I am interested in your career."
Ranier was greeted by Barbara as he entered the li
brary. They talked of casual interests until Deamati ar
rived. She said, "Mr. Ranier, we are to have a class of
two. Barbara is interested in my folk-lore talks and it
would do you good to witness the interest of those chil
dren, the darlings."
Then they were seated and Deamati commenced
that first lecture.
"This subject is so large, there are so many ramifica
tions, so many interrelations, that it is best to classify
our various subjects. It is also best to start out on the
quest with a platform of principles.
"Vivekananda, an Indian teacher who arranged an
English version of Vadic Philosophy, gave as his basic
platform:
"
'Each soul is potentially Divine. The goal is to mani
fest that divinity within by controlling nature, external
and internal. Do this either by work or worship, or
psychic control, or philosophy —by one, or more, or all
of these and be free.
"
'This is the whole of religion. Doctrines or dogmas,
or Rituals, or Books, or Temples, or Forms, are but
secondary details.'
"This platform was given to stabilize and confirm stu
dents well advanced in knowledge of procedure and
familiar with Eastern ideals.
GODFREY GETS A VISION 143
"There is another platform of guidance given by a
great teacher —comprehensive in expression, optimistic
in outlook, encouraging to every grade of development,
envisioning spiritual attainment.—
"
'Life—For progression in knowledge,
"
'Mind—Open to the working of law,
"
'Intellect —For the development of spirituality,
"
'Reincarnation —For the advancement of ideals.'
"The first essential in preparing the students' minds
for a clear comprehension of the plan is a lucid con
ception of that creative energy which men call 'God.'
There are many, many names for the Creator of the
Universe. Many of the names refer to attributes of
creative force. It has been said that 'A knowledge of God
is the beginning of wisdom.'
"All life is a part of that vivifying, vibratory spirit
essence. One Ancient Order names this creative force
'The Great Architect of the Universe.' A more compre
hensive term than 'God,' which name in reality is a con
crete word meaning, 'AH Law—Spirit Force.' Man him
self is an expression of God up to the extent of his
intelligence. 'Ye are Gods in the building.' All life, all
creation, all concrete existence is a manifestation of God.
The old Sanskrit writers, trying to give a comprehensive
illustration of the nature of God, said, 'Consider God
the Ocean and men drops of that ocean—one in all and
some of all in each one.'
"One of your own writers, describing the great mys
tery, said, 'God is the efficient cause in nature.' This is
as near as finite mind can understand this great mystery.
It may help you to realize the universality of divinity;
144 THE OPAL MATRIX
it may help some to discard the childish idea of a per
sonal God, to consider every human being you meet as
'A God in the Building'— And when you meet a poor
specimen, you may say, 'The evolutionary effort which
labored untold ages to produce this, has ages yet to
come to finish the job.'
"How do you know what circumstances halted the
process of development in this case? Or for what pur
pose it was halted? If you could contact some of those
great beings, the more finished products of the evolu
tionary effort, and compare their advanced achieve
ments with those whom you consider peaks of ability
of your present century, the difference in degree of de
velopment would be far greater than between your rep
resentative men of culture and this poor, unfinished job.
"The miracle, the wonder, the great central idea is
to realize God in nature, God in man, Divinity in all
existing things, and to realize that you are part of this
miracle. That all life is simply a relative expression of
this one spirit existence. All life, all experience, all
knowledge, all existing things are simply means to a
realization of this one essential —Truth! What does
anything matter in life when you possess this realiza
tion ?
"Possessing this realization, life becomes a study of
the law of relationships. And my friends, that study
comprises all existing knowledge. It is all a matter of
You in Knowledge, and you become a radiating center
of force. A center of radiating influence."
She was looking at him through half-closed eyes, lead
ing him up to the culminating idea.
GODFREY GETS A VISION 145
"Now, my friend, do you realize the key to power, to
ability, to attainment, to possession? If you know the
nature of a thing, you can dominate it. All lesser things
are subject to law, and you can become law. Yes, through
knowledge you become law."
Ranier's face and eyes were eagerly intent as she
lectured. They retained their set expression of concen
tration after she had finished speaking. He was looking
into future possibilities. As his mind returned, he was
looking into the smiling face and eyes of Deamati.
She was saying, "A remembering of former quests,
and forgotten visions."
He was silent for a time, his thoughts busy with a
train of new ideas, new possibilities.
Finally, looking up at his teacher, he asked, "Deamati,
would you talk to my people, awaken their placid at
tention, kindle their faint desire, inject a live interest
into their placid contemplations ?"
Deamati looked at him a while, as she revolved the
idea and its relationships. Finally she decided, "Yes, I
will accept that proffered privilege. We will see."
When Deamati said "We will see" there always fol
lowed an interesting exposition.
XV
THE EVOLUTION OF AN ATOM
THE
OPENING service was over. The last mellow
tones of the organ faded into silence. Ranier arose
in his pulpit and looked out over a well-filled house, an
audience of prosperous people.
Looking over that audience, with pride and satisfac
tion, he commenced, "Dear Friends, I have this morn
ing a pleasant surprise for you. I have induced a lady
from India to talk to us. I say 'Us' for the reason that I
do not know the subject of her talk or the nature of her
discourse, but I am confident that it will be a pleasing
surprise to both the audience and myself. I have the
pleasure of presenting—Deamati Korali, of India."
Deamati arose and stood before the audience. She cast
an appraising glance at the congregation, the appear
ance of the building, and her surroundings. Then she
centered on her attentive audience.
"My Friends of America, when your instructor, your
Minister, asked me to talk to you, I accepted his sug
gestion promptly. I had a great desire to look into your
eyes, your faces, to know what manner of people you
were. I wanted to realize, from a collective group, your
status of relationship. Consequently, I accepted the op
portunity first; then I considered what I should talk to
146
THE EVOLUTION OF AN ATOM 147
you about —how, in conformity, I should deliver my
message to you.
"I asked Mr. Ranier how he approached his subjects,
how he built up his address. 'Why,' he said, 'I take a text
as my central idea, and assemble around that text con
necting ideas and their radiating relations.'
"That answer appeared to me orderly, constructive,
progressive; so I decided to select a text as the basis of
my talk to you. I have selected a text with which you
are all perfectly familiar—a text which is a product of
Law and Nature. The last, of course, is superfluous, be
cause Nature is Law. It is a living text, embodying a
wonderful lesson."
She held it up between finger and thumb. "This is my
text. It is a seed. A seed from one of your American
watermelons. When I selected my text, a seed, I wanted
you to realize the climaxed result of the effort of that
seed —the climax, the perfection of some growths reaches
completion in a far-distant time, but the seed —why you
are all familiar with that miracle.
"In order that you could realize the wonder, the
climaxed effort of that seed, I had a photographer re
produce in natural colors a cross-section of the com
pleted result of the effort of that seed. I wish every one
of you to realize the perfection of it all—structure, or
der, precision, beauty of design, geometrical propor
tions, density of protecting outer layer, solidity of the
outer casement. Notice the care in the protection of the
purity of the heart of the fruit, the mathematical pre
cision of location of the seeds, designed to insure suc
cessive generations."
148 THE OPAL MATRIX
She paused. An attendant brought in a slender easel
showing the enlarged cross-section of the marvel, in
natural colors, which displayed in minute detail, color,
texture, the outer green casement, the parallel lines of
succeeding tissues, the first tinge of red to the completed
marvel—the climaxed effort of the seed. Finally, after
moments of silence, to allow a full realization, she
turned again to her audience, "Now, we have the text,
the seed, and the resulting product of its effort. We will
next take up the history of the process of that develop
ment.
"Within that little seed is a spark of vibrating life
essence. The gardener prepares the soil and then plants
the seed in the earth, where it comes within the influ
ence of soil vibration, and the penetrating effects of
moisture. The earth vibrations accelerate the vibrations
of the seed, which sends out a call for harmonious sub
stance. It swells, becomes larger, bursts its shell, and in
stinctively pushes toward the light and air, which, in
turn, responds to the vibrating call of the seed and gives
in response to this call etheric elements which it builds
in as vegetable substance —vine, leaf, and blossom. It
continues its vibratory call and as the leaves grow and
enlarge, they absorb more and more substance, sub
stance fed to them from the air, the subtle ethers, from
sunshine. The gardener supplies other substances that
the soil lacks, sometimes nitrates, sometimes phosphates.
The roots absorb them, convert and transform them into
structural growth. So this little spark of Divine essence,
this spark of individualized vibratory life, continues its
THE EVOLUTION OF AN ATOM
vibratory call for affinitized substance, that will build it
into the perfect, rounded condition of completion.
"Now this seed did not change its desire to the
specialized vibratory call of a tomato, a turnip, a black
berry or a mango. It persisted in its own specialized call,
its own vibration, its individual class prayers to the God
of the vegetable world, for the substance that would con
tribute to its growth to perfection, and it expanded and
built in substance contributed as the result of its con
tinued vibratory call, until it reached its perfection of
growth. It did not simply take that substance, con
tributed as the result of its attracting prayer, but it built
that substance in according to a pattern, a design, a
most wonderful design, a most exquisite pattern of
harmony, of geometrical proportions, of algebraical de
sign. As the pattern expanded, and the details of design
became more pronounced, it made provision for con
tinuation of itself. For the perpetuation of all that
beauty of design, color, flavor, odor, it organized seeds
for future generations of its kind.
"Beside all this plan in growth, expansion, care of de
sign, according to traditions and tendencies of its race,
it built an insulating covering around itself to protect it
from marring and conflicting outside influences. Also
this insulating, protecting covering had of necessity to
be an expanding insulation, to provide for enlargement
and growth. It kept this expanding protection sealed
against intrusion until it attained its growth and its
maturity, when finally it attained its full growth and
perfection of form and design. It lacked all the virtues
i5o THE OPAL MATRIX
of ripened fruit. Consequently, with the completion of
growth, it commenced to build in the finer virtues,
flavor, sweetness, mellowness, ripeness, distilled from
the dews of the atmosphere, the final essence to its life's
completion.
"Well, we have taken a little excursion into the his
tory of a seed. I have given you a partial history of the
result of its vibratory call, its prayer to the God of the
vegetable world for completion. There are many les
sons to be learned from this vision of growth and un-
foldment. This seed continued individual throughout its
entire development. It sent out no other call, no other
prayer, but its own vibratory demand and through that
oneness of purpose, it attained perfection—its completed
growth.
"There are tens of thousands of varieties of seeds, and
each classification has its specialized vibratory call. One
seed will draw from earth, water, air, ether and light,
a deadly poison; another, sweet perfume; and another,
a sleeping potion. Another would transform the mind
of man into that of an idiot, and all these results are
brought about by vibrations —vibration of smell, vibra
tion of stimulation, vibration of retardation.
."Vibration and magnetism draw from elemental
space every concreted substance of nature. It has been
said, 'The investigating student will eventually arrive
at the conclusion that life has its origin in the invisible.'
And what is the invisible? It is nothing more or less
than the vast fields of vibratory matter that stretch
on either side, above and below the narrow range of
physical senses. We may use it. We may sense
it,
but
THE EVOLUTION OF AN ATOM 151
we neither see, hear, nor touch it. But, out of it is con
creted all that is visible, and to it return those con
cretions when they have served their purposes.
"Vibration is the Master Key that unlocks the secrets
of nature. Vibrations control the life of the Universe
from the smallest atom to the mighty constellations of
outer space. Each plant species has its one specialized vi
bration, and it repeats that one specialized call until
it grows into the perfected likeness of its ideal.
"Animal life has variable vibrations dominated by in
stinct —hunger, cold, anger, fear—but man, the climax
of the evolutionary scheme, has the ability of controlling
his vibrations, has the ability of directing his vibratory
power, either constructively or destructively, as he
chooses.
"Man has evolved through the lower kingdoms, and
the tendencies of the lower kingdoms are his by choice.
He can attune himself to the vibrations of love, anger,
hate, quiescence, revenge, and all through the range of
emotions, but Man cannot avoid the reacting results of
his choice. Through long ages of evolutionary experi
ence, man has been learning the lesson of choosing
wisely, of learning how to attune himself to constructive
methods in directing his vibratory power. As Man
climbs this evolutionary ladder, up through instinct,
emotion, to intellect, from the limited intellect of the
savage to the more mature intellect of a scientist, to the
intellect of a great mathematician, he is attaining his
mature and intellectual growth. Then he—like the
melon, that builds in its last completing virtues of color,
flavor, sweetness, mellowness, ripeness —so a man will,
152
THE OPAL MATRIX
at the completion of his growth, build in the completing
qualities of his character, spiritual perception and facul
ties above intellect.
Deamati paused and looked over the silently listening
audience, intent on the vision she had pictured. Con
tinuing, she said, "As we progress in knowledge of the
Laws of Life, we will realize more and more that every
thing is controlled by vibratory law. Everything that
is,
is
vibration. The quality, rate and force of the vibration
determines the form of the expression.
"There are many vibratory conditions on the physical
plane that are not visible to the sight. Some vibrations
are not registered or felt except
by
very sensitive indi
viduals. When we begin to study vibrations, we are
commencing to investigate an unlimited field which,
if
thoroughly understood, would encompass infinite
knowledge as yet undreamed of
by
men. All knowledge
of vibratory law on the earth plane
is
but
a
drop in the
bucket compared to the story of the whole!
"Now
I
want to talk to you of personal vibrations, of
the individual, and how those vibrations are registered
in his atmosphere. Every person has an individual atmos
phere, an aura of surrounding emanation. The person
who has developed
a
more sensitive extension of sight,
sees these auras as faint light surrounding
a
person.
These auras have color according to the development
of the individual from the faint unformed, undefined,
unaccentuated-by-any-definition aura of the savage, to
the wonderful abilities of the intellectually spiritual
man, together with all the intermediate grades of de
THE EVOLUTION OF AN ATOM 153
velopment as indicated by form, color and definition of
those auras as the individual advances in development.
From these auras can be understood something of the
law of vibration, indicating degree of development, be
cause, as you consider and compare the conditions of
the savage aura to the beautiful aura of the highly
evolved intellectual individual, you find that the differ
ence is caused by, or is the result of, thought control
and directed vibrations, just as the differentiation of all
things you see in physical conditions are the result
of controlled and directed vibrations. In this way you
get your idea of the power of vibrations, and learn that
vibrations are absolutely constructive or destructive, as
you yourself direct them. Also, you may realize that
vibration is the medium of progress, the attracting and
attaching call of your progress. Now, that means that
you have to learn that your power of growth and
progress lies in your ability to control and direct your
vibrations—that you can, must and will eventually di
rect your vibratory power. Everyone would like to have
the wonderful completed aura of the highly developed
man, but you must remember that you are in the process
of building toward the completion of The Plan. How
will you get to the wonderful climax of the completed
Aura ? First, by instinct and emotion ; then through in
tellect; then the dawn of the vision of spiritual direction.
Those auras came up through all those stages, as all hu
manity must come. We all have traveled the path. You
have no reason for discouragement, but you have a won
derful impetus for self-controlled action.
i54 THE OPAL MATRIX
"Decisional action is controlled action, for decisional
action brings to you the peak of your ability for progress,
the decision for operation. Now, the Aura of that poor
savage, who went nearly back to the brute instinct, was
the first evolution from the animal kingdom into hu
man form. Consequently, you know how primitive his
attitude of decision must have been, and he could go
only very slowly, dimly seeing the light, but he went.
That was The Plan, and as you have considered the
Auras, as they went along in their development, how
they were clearing up, how they were becoming more
decisional, and how the ability of control in directing life
was evidenced in the surrounding envelope. At the com
pletion of the journey see the reward. That is what your
study of the law of The Plan is going to help you at
tain, but in this building, you must remember that you
cannot build emotionally only as emotion helps you to
catch the vision. You have to build scientifically, related
with vision. That is the path of progress. The emotion
is all right; it plays a wonderful part in life, but it is
not the element through which you build relatedly.
"Secure building comes through intelligent realiza
tion of scientifically related facts. The climax of your
ability is through your Auric condition — The love ele
ment, the anger element, the bonds of the miser—are
all indications of decision. That is how you envelop
your body, and your envelope permits to you the IN
GRESS OF VISIONS. Your Auric envelope is the me
dium of Ingress, and it is also the Egress from your
body, to which you attach all conditions in the atmos
phere as yours. And, the operating principle is vibratory
THE EVOLUTION OF AN ATOM 155
decision, nothing else, because The Plan is Vibration,
and without vibration there is nothing. Consequently,
you realize that the vibratory ability that you possess is
your wonderful instrument for decisional acquisition
and operation."
XVI
HYPNOTIC EVIDENCE
IT
WAS evening of the third day after Deamati's ser
mon. She and Barbara were occupying inviting seats
arranged beneath a tall oak tree near the house. Not
far away the children were engaged in some active
game.
It was near the close of a perfect day. A cool, light
breeze from the direction of the lake gave life to foliage.
It was a secluded, delightful retreat as nature had
formed it. Deamati never tired of admiring the beauty
of the "low country," as she called
it,
in contrast with
her mountains of India.
As she looked around at the beautiful landscape, she
exclaimed, "Barbara, how desirably located you are!
And so favorably situated!"
Barbara and her unusual visitor had grown very close
together. She was
a
constant source of new ideas, of
new visions. She had said to Franz, "Deamati
is
alive!"
"Yes," she replied to the observation, "I sometimes
realize that fact. Life to Jimsie and Franz —how shall
I
say
it
—life to them never grows stale, flat, monotonous.
They never reach that despondent attitude which pos
sesses so many people, that 'what's-the-use' attitude, you
know—an endurance attitude. They never reach
a
dis
156
HYPNOTIC EVIDENCE 157
couraged period of life. They seem to possess a placid
expectancy."
"Yes," replied Deamati, with an appraising glance at
Barbara's picture. "I know what you have aptly de
scribed. And do you know the reason why your Franz
and Jimsie, as you call your Judge —do you know why
they seem to be set aside and different from other men,
why that placid expectancy pervades their lives?"
Barbara's steady glance of inquiry asked the answer.'
"Because," said Deamati, "those two men have had vi
sions, a vision of divinity, a vision of relationship, a vision
of their kingship. Yes," she nodded her head in confir
mation of the fact, "they are set apart ; they are different
from other men. After seeing visions they have come
within the pull of the magnet. Theirs is a founded ex
pectancy."
She smiled into Barbara's wondering eyes. "Can you
imagine that a message from an ordinary man saying
'Come to America,' without giving a reason, would have
brought me across the world ? No ! I knew what manner
of man beckoned. And I knew the reason for that call
was sufficient."
As Barbara thought over the force of a vision which
never grew dim, Deamati was opening the letters. As
she laid one aside she said, as she opened another, "Here
is a letter from Mrs. Antoine. After the lecture Sunday
she came into the annex with others to talk with me,
but she stood aside and listened to the others talk and
my answers to their questions. I felt her looking at me,
and when she turned to go, I held out my hand and
motioned, and she came over. She asked why I selected
158 THE OPAL MATRIX
a seed as my text. I explained that anything that con
tained a spark of God—divine energy in it—grew and
evolved into something. That things man made were
fixed, static; they didn't grow. A table, a chair, remain
a table and chair. She said, 'You have ideas. I wish I
could talk to you.' 'Perhaps you may. You know where
I live.' She continued, 'I now know why I went to Church
today.' I asked, 'And you don't generally go to Church ?'
'No, I take my two boys and we ride out into the woods
to the lake. The boys amuse themselves and I'—she
hesitated with a quiet smile—'I like their sermons bet
ter.' Others came up and she turned and left. Here is her
letter.
"Dear Deamati Korali:
"You may remember me as the one who told you
that she knew why she went to service Sunday.
Well, I have some influence in a college for girls,
and I have persuaded them to ask you to deliver
their graduating address. Please don't refuse. I
know you will not lecture on the possible outcome
of Russian civilization, or the possibilities of a Eu
ropean war, or the culture which existed during the
dark ages, or the effect of Greek mentality on our
present educational system.
"Please consider the request favorably, for it will
arrive presendy.
"Cordially,
"Mrs. D. R. Antoine.
"P. S. One of the girls of the college, completing her
equipment as a reporter, took down your lecture in
HYPNOTIC EVIDENCE 159
shorthand. It is to appear in an edition of the Col
lege paper. Your lecture and my persuasion influ
enced the coming invitation.
"Mrs. A "
Deamati's smile expressed keen appreciation of the
letter, as she looked to Barbara for comment.
Barbara laughed in sympathy, "Yes, I know her. She
is a forced product of faddish culture. She was reared in
an atmosphere of superior learning. She has brains and
was a social success. When she had attained the climax
for social emulation, she married a practical business
man and dropped completely out, leaving her poor
mother alone to carry the cultural banner, a heavy
burden without the assistance of her talented daughter.
Dorothea has since lived a sane, practical life, with
one pronounced idiosyncrasy—intolerance for all sham.
Everything that appeals to Dorothea must have a prac
tical purpose and ring true."
"Is she happy in her marriage?" asked Deamati, as if
that were necessary to the estimation of Mrs. Antoine's
character.
"Yes," answered Barbara, "I believe she is reasonably
so. Anyway, her married life is much more congenial
than the forced cultural flutter. She has two beautiful,
fine boys. Yes—I would say she is happy. Her husband's
interests seem centered in his family life and his busi
ness success. His progress has been a rather prosaic pro
cedure. He has never exhibited any radical tendencies
outside the regular routine. He would be considered a
model representative citizen."
160 THE OPAL MATRIX
"Yes, Barbara, your picture of Mrs. Antoine's husband
is very clear," said Deamati. "So clear that should I
meet the gentleman I would probably recognize him.
A slowly acquiring growth—don't interfere with the
proceeding process. You might manage that I meet
Mrs. Antoine. An adjustment in her direction of pro
cedure will be beneficial."
Deamati had read and laid aside her other letters.
She looked up, "Barbara, while we are in the adjust
ment business, don't you think our curiosity should be
satisfied by an inspection of the methods of production
at that factory ? I want to see that man Sempf . I think
he is the key to solving that murder problem. We must
manage in some way to see him alone."
"Well," replied Barbara, as she considered the matter.
"Why not have him come and repair the machinery. I
don't know if we have any machinery or not, but we
could have Franz borrow some and break it."
When their plans for visiting the factory and meeting
Sempf were unfolded to Franz, he joined the plot at
once. Several days elapsed before machinery was secured
and put in a condition which needed repairing.
"Now," said Deamati, as they looked over the com
pleted arrangements, "where is that little object ? I want
that to appear at the opportune moment for recognition.
Now show us the repairs you want made, every detail.
Place that little object right here on this shelf, and Bar
bara and I will manage the reception of Mr. Sempf."
So Franz explained the nature of the repairs and the
little object was secured and placed on the shelf. After
HYPNOTIC EVIDENCE 161
all arrangements were approved by Deamati they pre
pared the visit to the factory.
"A short ride of twenty miles or more," declared
Franz.
They arrived about three o'clock in the afternoon and
were directed to the factory. Having arrived at the of
fice, they met Bauer himself. Franz inquired for the
superintendent. Bauer informed him in a brisk manner,
"You are speaking to the Manager. What can I do for
you?"
"Why," said Franz, in a cheery tone of an influential
citizen requesting a favor which he was assured would
be granted before he made the request, "we have a
visitor from India who is very anxious to see an Ameri
can factory in operation, and I was seeking the manager
to ask him to appoint some guide to show the ladies
around a bit."
Bauer's assertive air subsided. He bit his finger nails
in a reflective mood. Franz maintained an insistent at
titude which called for compliance. Finally, Bauer
looked up at Franz.
"Yes, of course, we are glad to receive interested
visitors—the ladies." He hesitated. "Say!" he called to a
boy. "Go and bring Sempf here."
"And by the way," said Franz, laying a ten dollar
bill on the desk. "Is this Sempf a machinist? We need
some machinery repaired out at our place. If you would
be so kind as to send him to look into this matter of
repair. Of course, the bill would be extra for an out
side job like that. Here is my card, and you can phone
l62 THE OPAL MATRIX
when the man is coming. Someone there will inform
him of the required work."
Bauer's attitude was quite changed. He sensed a dom
inance which he did not understand, but he understood
the tender of money. There was no reluctance on that
score—that was the line of least resistance. He said:
"Mr. Grayle, I will be glad to serve you in any way. I
will send Sempf over before noon tomorrow." He hesi
tated. "If that is satisfactory to you—and see what is
needed."
Sempf appeared and conducted the ladies into the
factory. Franz loitered in the grounds until they reap
peared. Barbara was saying, "Mr. Sempf, this has been
a very interesting visit. I wanted my friend to see the
inside of at least one factory. We thank you so much."
She handed him a bill. As he hesitated, she said, "To
buy something to remind you of your kindness."
As she passed through the office she stopped and said,
"Mr. Bauer, did my husband speak to you of some
machinery over at our place in need of repair?"
"Yes, Ma'am," answered Bauer politely. "I've made
arrangements with him for Sempf to go over tomorrow
morning and look into things."
As they passed out Sempf grinned at Bauer. He ex
hibited the bill, "See what the dame gave me ?"
Bauer said, "Ha! So they gave you one too? They
must be well fixed. It's just as well to please such peo
ple."
Then he added, "You can never tell—"
But he left
the sentence unfinished.
When Sempf arrived the next day about ten o'clock,
HYPNOTIC EVIDENCE 163
Barbara received him and conducted him to the lower
back gallery where the machinery was placed for in
spection. There they found Deamati, who laid aside a
book and talked pleasantly to Sempf while he looked
over the damaged machinery and made notes of parts
for repair.
At last he finished. "There," he said, as he placed his
notes in his pocket. "That about finished
it,
but
I
for
got to bring calipers, and that—that means another
trip."
"Never mind," said Deamati, who was conducting
the conversation. "You charge all these trips up to Mr.
Grayle. He will be glad to pay for them
if
he can only
get his machinery repaired."
Barbara said, "Don't let Mr. Sempf go until he has
something to drink. He looks tired. Take that chair."
A chair was placed beside
a
little table. Sempf took
the designated chair as directed and presently
a
tray
containing
a
glass of wine was placed
by
his side. He
promptly availed himself of the opportunity of
a
drink,
and remarked as he replaced the empty glass, "That's
the best drink of wine I've had since
I
left Germany."
He then caught sight of Deamati's fire opal, placed
to attract his attention. He picked
it
up, turned
it
over,
examined
it
from various angles, then looked inquir
ingly at Deamati.
She said, "It
is
a
fire opal. They use
it
to tell fortunes.
Some people can see things
by
looking into the fire.
Here —let me show you how to use it."
She took the stone in her left hand, held
it
near his
eyes, and said, "Now look into the fire and tell me what
164 THE OPAL MATRIX
you see." She moved her right hand over his head, and
as he looked his eyes began to droop, his head leaned
forward.
"Sleep," she commanded, lowering her hand over his
forehead, and he sagged back in his chair.
"Sleep—you are sinking into a deep sleep. You need
to sleep, but your inner consciousness hears my voice
and answers my questions."
She touched a little bell and Barbara appeared. De-
amati's lips formed the word "Franz" and presently
Barbara returned bringing him. At a sign from Deamati
they drew up chairs not far from the sleeping man.
Deamati turned to her audience. "When you want the
full co-operation of a hypnotized subject, you ask ques
tions along the line of the subject's interest," and to
Franz, "Are you ready to take down questions and an
swers?"
Franz hurriedly found a pad of paper.
Q. "Sempf, you are a great friend of Mr. Bauer. You
have done many favors for him. Does he appreciate all
those things?"
A. "I guess so—he pays my expenses."
Q. "Have you saved up much money ?"
A. "Not a cent."
Q. "Then he has not paid you well."
A. "No, but he promises to pay, if the factory pans
out."
Q. "Sempf, where were you the night Mr. Morton
was shot?"
A. "In Lancaster."
Q. "How did you go to Lancaster?"
HYPNOTIC EVIDENCE 165
A. "In a car."
Q. "You mean an automobile ?"
A. "Yes, a gas wagon."
Q. "Who went with you?"
A. "Mr. Bauer."
Q. "You mean, he started with you ?"
A. "Yes, he started with me."
Q. "How far did he go with you?"
A. "He got out of the car at the edge of town."
Q. "He told several people that he was going to Lan
caster?"
A. "Yes, several people knew he was going to Lan
caster."
Q. "Then he left you at the edge of this city and re
turned?"
A. "Yes, he left me at the edge of the city."
Q. "Why did he leave you?"
A. "He said, 'I forgot a little job I have to do.'
"
Q. "What did you do in Lancaster?"
A. "I bought some things for Bauer."
Q. "Did you pay for those things in money ?"
A. "No, I paid with checks."
Q. "Bauer gave you signed checks before you left ?"
A. "No, I signed Bauer's name."
Q. "How could you sign Bauer's name?"
A. "I wrote his name till he said it was perfect."
Q. "Here is a pencil. Write Bauer's name as you
signed it in Lancaster."
Sempf took pencil and wrote Bauer's name.
Q. "You signed Bauer's name and your name in the
Hotel Register?"
i66 THE OPAL MATRIX
A. "Yes, I signed both names."
Q. "Sempf, you are coming out here tomorrow to
measure machinery?"
A. "Yes."
Q. "You are going to finish taking your notes, then
you are going to sit in this same chair and you will go
to sleep."
A. "Yes."
Q. "Sempf, you have had a good sleep. You are
rested. Wake up."
He opened his eyes, looked dazedly about. "Sorry I
went to sleep," he said. He looked ashamed of such a
weakness.
Deamati said, "You are tired, Sempf. That is all
right."
As he prepared to leave, Franz handed him a bottle
of wine. "Give this to Bauer and tell him to put all
these trips in his bill. Sorry, you forgot your —"
"Calipers," supplied Sempf.
As he drove off, Franz and Barbara looked blankly
at Deamati, and Barbara asked, "Can't he relate to
Bauer what he has been through, what he has said?"
"No," replied Deamati, "Sempf does not know one
thing beyond that sleep."
Suddenly Franz said, with a great glow of a new idea
animating his face, "Can you rely on Sempf being here
tomorrow?"
"Absolutely," replied Deamati, "only physical force
could prevent Sempf from being here tomorrow and
sitting in that chair I directed."
"Good-bye," returned Franz, "I will see you tomorrow
HYPNOTIC EVIDENCE 167
morning," and he hurriedly left the room while Bar
bara and Deamati regarded each other questioningly.
Barbara broke the silence. "I suspect a shorthand ex
pert and possibly McCain."
The early morning solved that mysterious disappear
ance, when movie cameramen appeared with camera
equipment. An electrician, and later McCain arrived.
Lights were arranged about Deamati's table and chair
and tested. The stage was detailedly arranged, then
suspense and doubt were in evidence until ten o'clock
brought Sempf, who, after securing his machinery meas
urement details, walked over to the chair, drank the
glass of wine placed for him, leaned back in comfortable
position and was fast asleep.
Deamati placed a hand on his forehead as if to
seal that sleep and said, "Sleep, a long, deep sleep, but
the inner consciousness hears and answers my ques
tions."
The operator arranged his camera, the stenographer
a desk, and those assembled waited with tense breath.
Then came the first question:
Q. "Where were you the night Mr. Morton was
killed?"
A. "I was in Lancaster."
Questions were asked and answers given exactly as
the day before. Franz whispered one other question to
Deamati with the result.
Q. "Why did you go with that man to the bank and
insist that the check be cashed that day ?"
A. "It was near closing hours, and Bauer wanted the
evidence of that date, the 17th, on the check."
i68 THE OPAL MATRIX
Q. "Bauer ordered you to be sure that the check went
through that date—the 17th ?"
A. "Yes, I was to see that it went through."
Q. "Do you know who killed Mr. Morton ?"
There was tense waiting for Sempf's reply. At last
it came, less promptly than the other replies.
A. "I was in Lancaster. Bauer wanted control of the
factory."
Suddenly Deamati turned to the shelf, secured the
little object which she handed to Sempf, saying slowly,
"Look this over carefully and tell me what it is."
A. "It is Bauer's saw."
McCain here suggested one more question.
Q. "Sempf will you swear that all your answers are
the truth?"
A. "I swear they are true."
Deamati nodded—the end —and all present with
drew. When the camera vanished and the lights turned
off Deamati said, "Sempf, you have had a good sleep.
Wake up."
She made an upward pass with both open hands and
snapped her fingers in his face, and although he looked
perfectly normal as he sat up and looked fixedly at
Deamati during the entire procedure, at the summons
and snap of her fingers he came to with a violent jerk,
as if he had landed from another world. He looked
vaguely around and rather dazed.
Deamati said, "Here, Sempf, is a bottle of wine. It
is for you this time. Telephone Mr. Grayle when the
machinery is ready to put together." Sempf departed.
XVII
A VISION OF LAW
'HE FOLLOWING evening after Sempf's hyp
notic disclosures there was a conference in the li
brary of the Grayle home to decide on a method of pro
cedure against Bauer and the freeing of Morton from
the law by establishing his innocence. There were pres
ent Franz, Barbara, Deamati, George Morton, McCain,
Judge Alvin, and Godfrey Ranier. All the details of evi
dence which Deamati had been instrumental in disclos
ing were gone into and considered as to their importance,
their weight, and their admission at Court as evidence.
After all details had been discussed, everyone turned
to Judge Alvin for his final decision.
Judge Alvin said, "It is not possible, according to exist
ing law and procedure to bring this evidence before
either Judge or Jury, although we, who understand
these things realize the existing facts of the case regard
ing innocence and guilt. This conclusive evidence can
be used in establishing the innocence of George Morton
without Court or Jury, but I have a strong feeling that
by delaying action there will develop other features in
this unusual case. I would advise to perfect all details
and wait."
"And," added McCain— "watch."
169
170 THE OPAL MATRIX
Everyone realized the wisdom of his decision, and his
suggestions were adopted and the gathering adjourned.
Ranier hastened over to Deamati. He had not called
since the delivery of that wonderful lecture.
"It would look," he said, as he drew up a chair for a
more intimate talk, "as if I did not fully appreciate the
renewed interest which you awakened in those people.
A minister has so many calls on his time. Everyone is
talking of that lecture. Some failed to connect up the
ideas expressed with what they consider religious ideals.
Some say 'radical,' others say 'revolutionary,' but the in
terest of all of them is aroused. They are doing some
original thinking."
"No, my friend, I am not educating your congrega
tion. Education and adoption of new lines of thought
and new methods of thinking is a slow process. It is
only the arrived and the dissatisfied with the old, that
can readily adopt the larger view. What I accomplished
Sunday was the sowing of many seeds, the harvest of
which you may reap through proper cultivation. Your
attraction to the knowledge is evidence of your former
abilities, which, with the opportunity for a larger ex
pression, eagerly accepts the new version, and the new
freedom of expansion. But you must acquire based
knowledge, familiarity with the plan of evolutionary
progress to be a leader of your people, by gradual ap
proach, to broader conceptions, to larger visions.
"You are not responsible for their growth. Mother
Nature is dealing effectively with the education of each
one of her children. Each individual decides his own
growth by self-decision, and the result of his decision
A VISION OF LAW *7*
is the most effective teacher. All that an ordinary teacher
can do is to point the path and to a very limited extent,
direct the growth, point to fairer visions, greener pas
tures, and enlarge intellectual conception, but the in
dividual by self-decision decides his growth."
"Deamati," he laughed, "your ability and your visions
are discouraging to a would-be teacher of new ideas."
She held up a detaining hand, "My friend, if you
will ignore mythology, miracles and the supernatural,
and center your mind on existing law and its interrela
tions, and realize that law is spirit force or God, and that
all existing visible life in nature is God percolating
through matter—that all" these things are a part of
law and that all things are related; when you once fully
realize this, then you will realize that the interrelations
and involvements are simply inexhaustible."
She continued, "As you study and realize law, you
become law. In my lecture Sunday I simply took an
atom of spirit force and drew for them a picture of its
evolution. It was something which they all knew, with
which they were perfectly familiar, but they did not
realize and I visualized the realization."
Silence reigned for a while. He was letting the idea
sink in, and Deamati gave ample time for the permea
tion.
Finally she said, "The interrelation of law is the im
portant theme of life. It is the golden stair in the ascent
to wisdom."
Suddenly Ranier said, with a sudden light of realiza
tion, "I am beginning to see. The Idea is so simple and
it has been made so complex."
172 THE OPAL MATRIX
"Yes," answered Deamati, "a child could understand
the idea. Man has made of God—that essence force in
nature, the mysterious sphinx of the universe, the great
unsolvable enigma of life."
Suddenly she looked up and asked, "Mr. Ranier, to
whom do you pray?"
"Why," he answered, with a frown of bewilderment,
"to God, of course."
"Oh, no," she smiled, with a look of tolerance. "You
pray for what you want, and a sufficiently strong de
mand from the magnet of desire may attract from that
universal supply the desired necessity to supply your
need.
"Directed desire is a magnet. A vaporish wish gets
nowhere. It is the dominant demand that attracts re
sponse.
"Mr. Ranier, I will give you a cue to guide your re
search. Everything in existence is vibration. As you learn
to key in to different vibrations, you attune yourself to
response. Another key to progress is that you can con
sciously begin to dominate co-operation between your
conscious mind and your sub-conscious bank account."
After another mental reactionary process, Ranier said,
"Deamati, I begin to see a plan—new relations," he
hesitated.
"Yes, and as that plan unfolds all your old estimate of
values will change. Things you once considered im
portant will become trivial, secondary. And as you pro
ceed you will find everything, like the pieces of an in
tricate puzzle, will fit into the plan."
As Ranier arose to depart, she laughingly said, "I am
A VISION OF LAW 173
informed that you are to introduce the speaker giving
the address for the girls' college commencement exer
cises."
"Yes, I have been accorded that privilege. I wouldn't
miss it for anything. I am curious regarding just what
you will say to those girls."
Deamati laughed, "Well, as Mrs. Antoine, who in
fluenced the invitation to me to speak to this graduating
class, said, 'We know that you will not lecture on the
possible outcome of Russian civilization, or Greek men
tality,' so I will keep you in suspense regarding my sub
ject until the delivery of the lecture."
"That's a mean trick," he declared, but the light of ad
miration was in his eyes.
XVIII
DESCENT INVISIBLE
COMMENCEMENT
day dawned clear and cool.
Showers of the preceding night had moderated the
heat of the early summer. In the corridors hurrying to
and fro were bright faces and pretty gowns. Friends ar
ranged for other meetings and future correspondence.
A mild excitement pervaded the atmosphere, proclaim
ing the end of work and routine. Groups talked over
what kind of a message would be given them by a lady
from India. The lecture given by Deamati and repro
duced in the college paper had caused much comment.
Long before the speaker appeared the spacious hall was
filling up. Friends and relations of the students, friends
of the college, filed in until all desirable seats were oc
cupied and late comers must be content with rear seats
or hastily produced chairs.
Presently the President and speakers filed in, and the
opening ceremonies commenced—the exercises which
placed the final period at the end of the long months
of study and routine.
Finally Ranier arose to introduce the speaker and at
once the audience were attentive with interest and curi
osity.
"Friends of the College, students, and graduates. To
174
DESCENT INVISIBLE 175
day you are gathered together to hear the final official
message of instruction, hope and encouragement from
your college. And from the speaker you have chosen for
the closing address you will receive visions of future pos
sibilities.
"I congratulate you on your choice of speaker, a lady
from far-off India, who came to America on an im
portant mission. My contact with the speaker has given
me new visions of life and law, a new optimism. I have
the honor to present to you Deamati Korali, of India."
Deamati arose and stood before them, silently look
ing over the audience a moment before speaking.
"Dear children — When I say 'children,' that includes
all of us—the teachers, the instructors, and the faculty.
I would be sorry for everyone who could not be classified
under that head —children.
"I, a visitor from India, was pleased with the com
pliment conferred, when I was chosen to deliver to you
a message of congratulation on your completion of one
stage of your life's journey. Your equipment in knowl
edge which you have received here at this college, your
familiarity with the various branches of learning, these
are the tools which you have learned to handle. Their
purpose is to enable you to live life scientifically and
efficiently.
"But— It is well, before engaging in the future ac
tivities of life, to know something of your ancestry and
your lineage. You know the daughters of a King have a
dignity to maintain. The daughter of a King can never
permit herself to consider trivial things of paramount
importance. She efficiently handles everything which
176 THE OPAL MATRIX
requires her attention, because a King's daughter should
have superior ability and possess superior initiative for
management of any condition which requires efficient
handling.
"Once upon a time there was a King who had a re
markably intelligent son. An only son, whom he greatly
loved. He decided that his son should never know such
a thing as sickness or sorrow, disease or death. He sur
rounded that son with servants, trained to guard him
from any knowledge or contact with any of these
things. This son was surrounded with happiness, pleas
ure, philosophy, constructive knowledge, and all things
optimistic. But of all these he eventually became tired.
They proved insufficient for lasting happiness. He felt
deprived of knowledge of life.
"One night he ordered the gates of his palace grounds
opened, and on a fleet horse he fled to another kingdom.
Years passed by and that son who fled a palace to gain
knowledge of life, returned to his father's kingdom, a
teacher of law. When his father heard that a great
teacher approached his kingdom he rode out to meet
him. When he saw that it was his own son he said,
'Why is this ? The heir to a throne approaches his king
dom in a yellow robe, with a beggar's bowl ?'
"The son held out a welcoming hand, 'Father, my line
did ever thus.'
"
'Your line,' replied the King, 'your line comes of a
thousand Kings, but no deed like this.'
"
'Father, I spoke of descent invisible.'
"Now every one of you is the daughter of a King. You
came from descent invisible. You were attracted to your
DESCENT INVISIBLE 177
earthly parents through vibratory affinity. You are ages
old; you have traveled the long, long path of evolution.
You came up through instinct, emotion, up to primitive
intelligence, and up and up to more advanced stages of
intelligence, and you finally arrived at your present in
tellectual standard. And what are the standards of a
King's daughter? Honor, faith, rectitude of conduct,
integrity of character, dignity of ancestry. She has passed
through the period of action, through impulse, through
the period of instinctive urge. These primitive impulses
belonged to that long, long past instinctive period, when
she had to fight for her progress. But with the dawning
recognition of her queenship, those old forces which
once dominated her action and desire became her useful
servants to guard and direct her progress.
"Those old directors of her early actions, those old
guides to her early progressional growth, elemental in
stinct and emotion are now her faithful servants, the
prompters, the suggestors, the pilots of intelligence.
Now her intellect rules her decisions and directs her ac
tions. The daughter of a King has standards to main
tain. And she demands and requires standards in her
associates, and in her relations. For a Queen is a Queen
in her kitchen or in her palace, in rags or in robes. And
all this experience of that long, long journey, the ages
of lessons, the infiltering results of action, has all that
gone into the discard? Oh, no! She has the record en
tire ; the bookkeeper of all bookkeepers, her subconscious
mind, holds the record of that past, a record which she
can dip into for a knowledge of past experience to meet
present requirements.
i;8 THE OPAL MATRIX
"This bank account of all her past which she can
dip into, her subconscious mind, her tree of life, grow
ing up into eternity, this wonderful depository of past
experience, has another name—her Soul. Yes, your soul
is your subconscious mind. Your soul has always been
considered a mysterious something, illusive, ethereal,
something apart from the individual, but somehow re
lated, in some way indefinably connected invisibly with
the individual. But when you realize that your subcon
scious mind is your Soul, you have a practical base of
procedure, for you will learn that the conscious mind
and the subconscious mind constitute a most wonder
fully complete instrument.
"Your subconscious mind contains the record of your
past experiences, the memory of your evolutionary jour
ney, and your conscious mind can call up these past
records for present use.
"The possible interrelations and reactions between the
conscious mind and subconscious mind is the most
amazing fact in the universe. The possibilities of ac
complishment by a mind trained in knowledge of these
interrelations is almost beyond belief. Now you can
learn to dominate and consciously draw on this won
derful bank account of yours. And this talk to you is for
the purpose of telling you that secret. Everything in the
world is vibration. Everything in existence is vibration.
Heat, light, electricity, thought, is a vibration. Vibra
tion is a key to the secrets of the universe.
"Every experience of your past is recorded in your
subconscious mind—vibratorily. And when you want a
record in your subconscious mind, you put in the vibra
DESCENT INVISIBLE 179
tion which calls to that vibration and it responds. Like
attracts like, vibration responds to vibration. And how
do you put in the call? By naming your subject. Just
say —'what had I better do about this subject?' And
name your subject. Then wait, and the subconscious
mind hands up everything relating to that subject and
you look over the aggregate and choose.
"Yes, your subconscious mind exists as a tabulator of
your progressional actions, and you can establish con
scious relations with your bank account of recorded
knowledge. And remember, it is the vibratory key that
makes the connection.
"Ignorance is non equipment, and knowledge is
ability in every phase and condition of life.
"Above all things, this world needs intelligent women.
Women who realize progressional law. Did you ever
realize that upon the women of this world depends the
task of carrying on humanity to a final graduation ? Did
you ever think that seventy years without children this
world would consist of old, discouraged people, waiting
to die?
"Now, I am going to tell you of an important fact in
progressional life. As you relate yourself to knowledge
of law and its interrelations, as you raise yourself in the
vibratory scale, you will attract to yourself as your child
an advanced entity seeking association with advanced
parents in a harmonious environment. Just as a medi
ocre, undirected life attracts a plebeian element attuned
to emotional activities, a highly evolved woman attracts
an advanced entity as her child. That is law. Like at
tracts like.
180 THE OPAL MATRIX
"Do you get the vision? Do you see the reward for
constructive, directed effort ?
"No, I have not talked to you of the possible outcome
of Russian civilization. The Lords of Karma are attend
ing to their development. I am talking to you of life,
and your ability to co-operate with constructive progress.
"If time permitted, I might tell you of pranic energy
and its importance in life; of vibratory affinity of foods
—but—too many visions blend in obscurity. Conse
quently, the last advice —build a strong, healthy body;
cultivate a mind receptive to constructive knowledge.
Do not give paramount importance to trivial matters,
and maintain the traditions of a daughter of the King."
XIX
OCCULT KNOWLEDGE SOLVES CRIME
JUDGE
ALVIN had advised waiting for other de
velopments regarding the Morton murder, and his
advice proved to be wisdom derived from experience,
as a series of quickly following events commenced with
Sempf's delivery of the damaged machinery.
One morning Bauer telephoned that he had obtained
all missing parts of the broken machinery and would
send Sempf over to attach them this morning, then he
added, "if it is convenient."
Franz had replied, "Send them over this morning,
together with your bill of expense and I will send you a
check by Sempf."
Deamati and Barbara had just returned from a morn
ing walk down by the lake. As they entered the house,
Franz was telephoning Bauer. When they gathered
around the breakfast table, Franz repeated the telephone
conversation.
Deamati replied, "Now we have an opportunity of
obtaining more evidence, if you can get McCain and
ask him exactly how Bauer's name was signed on those
Lancaster checks."
"Of course," cut in Franz, "and then compare my
check's signature for detection of variations."
181
182 THE OPAL MATRIX
He found McCain in and obtained the needed in
formation.
"Now," said Deamati, who seemed conversant with
all the evidence of the case, "we will see how Mr.
Sempf's conscious mind confirms his subconscious as
sertion regarding that little object. You remember that
when I handed it to him and asked him what it was, he
replied, 'that's Bauer's saw.'
"
As they arose from the breakfast table Sempf's car
swung in at the rear entrance and noisily ground to an
abrupt stop. Barbara said, "He must be in a hurry."
Barbara and Deamati went to witness the replace
ment of the new pieces of machinery while Franz
wrote out his check, following McCain's instructions
regarding Bauer's signature. Sempf quickly and ex
pertly attached the various pieces and demonstrated
how perfectly they all fitted. He then handed Franz
Bauer's bill for repairs and as Franz inspected the bill
and filled in the amount due, Sempf saw the little ob
ject placed to attract his attention. He did not pick it
up at once, but stood looking at it as if it were a gold
piece and he could not believe the evidence of his eyes.
Then he picked it up and examined it minutely.
Deamati, watching the drama, asked, "What have
you found so interesting?"
"Why—it's a—," returned Sempf, rather confused.
"Yes," helped out Deamati.
"It's a—, Oh, it's just a little pocket piece belonging
to the boss. He lost it a while ago and has looked every
where for it. You see," he continued, explaining the rea
OCCULT KNOWLEDGE SOLVES CRIME 183
son for Bauer's search, "he's had that pocket piece a
long time. He brought it from Germany."
Deamati, taking possession of the little article, asked,
"Is the boss that lost this Mr. Bauer?"
Sempf answered, "Yes—sure Bauer is the boss. Where
did you get that thing?"
"I believe," answered Deamati, "that one of the men
picked it up somewhere and gave it to Mr. Grayle. I
will tell him you say it belongs to Mr. Bauer. He will
see about returning it."
As Sempf was turning to leave, Franz called, "Here,
Sempf, just mark this bill paid. Here is a check for Mr.
Bauer."
Sempf marked the bill paid, signed his name, and de
parted.
As they entered the room, Deamati said, "Sempf
tried to protect Bauer, but he made a slip. In the hyp
notic state he told the truth. He said, 'that is Bauer's
saw.' Hypnotic subjects cannot lie. If there has been a
strong suggestion against revealing a fact, they may
refuse to answer, but they simply cannot lie. Sempf said
to give an impression of non-importance to that ob
ject, 'just a little pocket piece the boss lost.'
"
"Yes," agreed Franz, "all the evidence of Bauer's
guilt is conclusive, but the question
is,
how can that
evidence be brought before
a
jury
?"
However, events were rushing to
a
climax. Three
days after Sempf had said, "that's just
a
little pocket
piece belonging to the boss," Zimmer had called at Mc
Cain's office. He had telephoned in the afternoon that
184 THE OPAL MATRIX
he would see him about eight. So McCain had waited,
for Zimmer never called unless he had news to impart
of importance. Zimmer was the German detective that
McCain had managed to have employed in the factory.
He was a good workman, a German who had Bauer's
approval. His wages were satisfactory, so he held his
job and kept his eye on Bauer and his activities. It was
McCain's oft-expressed belief that if you watched a crim
inal long enough he would in some way betray himself.
So, when Zimmer showed up promptly at eight Mc
Cain was ready to receive news. Zimmer commenced
without delay.
"McCain, there is something wrong at the factory. I
don't know what it is. It started three days ago when
Sempf returned from the Grayle Estate. I know about
that job, as I made some of the parts, so when Sempf
drove up I happened to be passing and I paused near
the office to hear his report. I heard Sempf say, 'Well,
Bauer, here's a nice little check for that job, and what
do you think I found there? Well, you couldn't guess.
It was your saw. It was laying on the ground by a piece
of machinery.' Bauer said, in an even tone, 'You didn't
touch
it,
did you?'
'I
sure did.
I
picked
it
up.
It
was
yours all right, and the lady—the one we showed
through the factory that day —asked me what
I
had
found so interesting, and
I
answered her, "just
a
little
pocket piece the boss lost."
'
"Then Bauer flamed, 'And you said that? You fool!
You dumb fool! You easy mark! You are not double-
crossing me, are you?'
"Well,
I
hurried away, as
I
didn't want to be seen.
OCCULT KNOWLEDGE SOLVES CRIME 185
That blow-out occurred about one o'clock. I kept an
eye out whenever I could. Sempf kept away from the
office all the afternoon, and he must have left that night
for he has not been seen since then. Sempf lived in a
one-room affair at the end of the yard. He had fixed it
up with some furniture and after hours I would often
see Sempf and his dog. He fixed up a hammock under
some trees at the side of the shack and I would see him
in the hammock and the dog curled up near by. When
Sempf was busy, the dog kept the house. All the next
day after Bauer's explosion that dog was walking
around the grounds as if he had lost something. It was
in the middle of the afternoon when I saw Bauer run
ning across the yard. He was running toward flying
dirt, and then I saw it was Sempf's dog digging a hole.
Bauer kicked the dog, threw sticks after him, then
called a boy to bring a shovel, and he stood by until
that hole was filled up. A load of lumber was coming in
and Bauer had it piled up in a hollow square over the
place where the hole was. I thought no more about the
matter, but after closing hours I saw Bauer with his
head lowered, walking toward that pile of lumber, and
there, trying to dig a hole under that pile of lumber,
was Sempf's dog.
"Bauer is a dead shot, and he always carries that little
revolver. He approached the dog, gave a low whistle.
The dog raised his head —one shot, and the dog was
dead. Bauer dragged the dog out of the yard and threw
him on a pile of rubbish.
"Well, it looks queer. Sempf has not returned yet. I
asked Bauer this morning where Sempf was and he re
i86 THE OPAL MATRIX
plied, 'That's just what I'd like to know myself. I called
Sempf down the other day, and I guess he has one of his
wandering spells.'
"
"Well," answered McCain, "it looks fishy to me, and
we'll run down your clue later, but tomorrow morning
there is going to be the strangest investigation ever
pulled off in this world. I guess you have a right to horn
in on this. You have done a lot of work on this case, so
you can show up at the Capitol at nine-thirty and tell the
policeman at the door that McCain said to admit you.
He will know to what. The room is being rigged up to
day for a new kind of a show."
The next morning at nine-thirty Zimmer presented
himself and asked for admission. However, he was ad
mitted only after McCain was called to confirm his
right to admission. There were present at that strange
gathering about thirty people. The governor, two Su
preme Court Judges, the Judge of the Trial Court, who
passed sentence on George Morton, two of the jurors,
who gave the verdict, Judge Alvin, Franz, Barbara,
Deamati, a man who answered to the name of Vincent,
together with several prominent lawyers of the City.
Facing the small gathering was a screen for display
ing pictures, and a small platform for a presiding officer.
Silence reigned with the exception of an occasional low
conversation.
Finally Judge Alvin arose and tapped the desk for
attention. "Ladies and Gentlemen: We today inaugu
rate a new technique in semi-legal procedure. This
meeting, I believe to be the first ever held for legal
opinion to decide guilt by occult methods. To briefly
OCCULT KNOWLEDGE SOLVES CRIME 187
acquaint your mind with the legal aspect of this case,
the facts presented to the Court at the trial were as
follows:
"On March 17th, three years ago, Leonard Morton
was shot and killed in his office. A porter opening the
office door saw his nephew, George Morton, standing
over his uncle with a bloody hand. On the floor lay a
revolver. A bullet from this revolver had killed the man.
The finger prints on the handle of that revolver were
those of George Morton.
"Every person who could be suspected of having any
motive for the murder had a perfect alibi. The case went
to the jury. A verdict of guilty was unanimous on the
first ballot. George Morton was sentenced to twenty
years in the penitentiary.
"That disposed of the case, as far as the State was
concerned, but George Morton had one friend who be
lieved in his innocence. This friend secured a skilled
detective to prove that innocence, and this man, against
his own judgment, and believing Morton guilty, took
over the case.
"He eliminated every possible suspect, one by one,
until he came to one Bauer, a lawyer who had assumed
control of the Morton factory by Court sanction after
the murder of Morton, who was in charge of the fac
tory when he was murdered. This uncle was also the
guardian of George Morton. This lawyer, Bauer, had a
pal, a confederate, named Sempf. They had been to
gether for years. Systematic investigation proved these
men were criminals with past records. Bauer was a
skilled machinist, and their criminal records extended
i88 THE OPAL MATRIX
to other countries. Bauer produced a perfectly proved
alibi for himself and Sempf. They had been in a neigh
boring city the day of the murder. The hotel register
proved the fact. Checks given for merchandise that day
also proved the fact of their absence from the neighbor
hood of the crime on the day of its commission.
"It was an impasse; months of search failed to show
Bauer's connection with the murder or a defect in his
alibi. In spite of all this total lack of evidence, McCain
was convinced that Bauer was involved, but he failed to
find any actual proof of the fact. It seemed that one per
fect crime had been successfully managed.
"All ordinary means having failed, Mr. Grayle de
cided to use the developed power of the human brain to
solve the mystery of that murder. He cabled to a lady
he met while in India, who knew the intricate mecha
nism of the human mind, and how to penetrate its hid
den secrets. She, realizing that a message from America
meant a drastic need, came at once.
"Gentlemen, she has solved that mystery, established
the innocence of George Morton beyond any doubt and
produced evidence which will convict Bauer of the mur
der. You are about to see and hear a portion of this evi
dence produced before your eyes on the screen. This is
the evidence of Sempf, Bauer's confederate. This is prob
ably the first time in the history of the world that hyp
notic evidence has been produced on the screen to estab
lish the fact of innocence and guilt. Bauer has been
arrested and he will be conducted to this room to witness
and hear Sempf's evidence, and we hope that his re
action to that evidence will be a confession of guilt.
OCCULT KNOWLEDGE SOLVES CRIME 189
"Before turning on the screen display, I wish you to
meet this lady from India, who will herself explain to
you something of the ability of the human mind and
its action. I present —"
"Just one moment, Judge," interrupted Franz. "Al
low me to make a statement. Gentlemen, Judge Alvin
neglected to mention one important point. When
George Morton recovered consciousness from the blow
which nearly finished him, and saw his uncle slumped
over in a chair, his first impulse was to ascertain if his
uncle was alive. He felt of his heart, as his uncle gave
one last gasp and died. At that moment the porter
opened the door, as George stood over his uncle with
a bloody hand. The porter said, 'So you shot your un
cle,' and went to call the police. While he waited the
arrival of police, he looked about the room for any
clue, anything unusual. At his uncle's feet he found a
little round object like a sea bean. All through his trial
and imprisonment he retained possession of this little
bean. I found it among his possessions. He was, I found,
absolutely ignorant of the nature or use of the thing he
possessed. I had seen one of these in Europe and on
examination it proved to be a similar construction, a
cleverly concealed saw. This object is referred to in the
screen pictures you are about to see. Under hypnotic
questioning Sempf states, That is Bauer's saw.' In his
waking state he carefully said, 'Oh, that is just a little
pocket piece belonging to the boss.' This is a very im
portant item and is referred to on the screen."
Franz resumed his seat, and the Judge said, "Gentle
men, Deamati Korali."
190 THE OPAL MATRIX
She arose and commenced. "To understand the ra
tional of operative hypnotism requires much study and
a knowledge of the internal mental instrument, also
the operator must possess the ability to project pranic
energy. However, to simplify a hasty glance at the
subject, I will say that man has two interacting divisions
of mind—his objective mind which plans, directs and
carries on all the details of his daily active life. Then he
has another mind, the subconscious mind which is the
bookkeeper of all his activities, the depository of his
mental experiences. Man's subconscious mind exists as
a tabulator of his progressional actions. When the op
erator can induce sleep of the conscious mind, he can
draw up the recorded events in the man's subconscious
mind. The best way to induce sleep is to centralize the
subject's attention on some object; when the mind is
centralized a wave of energy will throw the mind into
a sleep.
"This Sempf was suspected of being Bauer's confeder
ate. Mr. Grayle arranged with Bauer to repair some
broken machinery at his home. He sent Sempf. I showed
him which machinery to repair and we watched and
talked to him while he did the work. When the work
was finished Sempf was attracted by a fire opal which
I had displayed for that purpose. He picked it up and
asked me what it was. I explained that it was used to
centralize the mind and that some people could see
visions by gazing into the fire. I offered to show him
how to manage it. When his mind was centralized by
gazing into the fire, I threw him into a hypnotic sleep.
His work required that he return the next day, and I
OCCULT KNOWLEDGE SOLVES CRIME 191
ordered his line of action after this work was finished,
viz: that he should sit in the same chair and go into
the sleep.
"When Mr. Grayle realized that Sempf would abso
lutely comply with my orders he prepared to make a
photographic film record of Sempf's subconscious evi
dence. This evidence, gentlemen, is about to be pro
duced. Before proceeding with the film, I want to im
press on your minds the fact that a witness may lie,
that he may debate regarding giving out damaging evi
dence, but any statement drawn from a subject's sub
conscious mind, while in a hypnotic sleep, is absolute
truth. His statements are simply a revelation of recorded
events. That is all." Deamati resumed her seat.
Judge Alvin said, "Officer, bring in the prisoner."
Bauer was brought in handcuffed and seated beside
the officer in two arranged chairs. The lights were
turned low for the coming picture. A few minutes were
allowed for eyes to adjust to see objects in the dim light
and also to see the prisoner himself. Then the pictures
were turned on.
They showed Sempf sitting in a chair beside a little
table answering the questions asked by Deamati. At the
first glance of Sempf, Bauer attempted to rise and in a
stupefied surprise muttered "Hell." He was pulled back
by the officer and he stoically watched and listened to
Sempf and his answers to the end.
Deamati could not be seen in the filmed picture. Only
Sempf sitting there with fixed gaze answering ques
tions. His answers were very clear. The whole repro
duction was like life.
i92 THE OPAL MATRIX
First question : "Sempf, you are a great friend of Mr.
Bauer. You have done many favors for him. Does he
appreciate all these things you have done for him?"
A. "I guess so. He pays my expenses."
Q. "Have you saved up much money ?"
A. "Not a cent."
Q. "Then he has not paid you well."
A. "No. He promises to pay if the factory pans out."
Q. "Sempf, where were you the night Mr. Morton
was shot?"
A. "I was in Lancaster."
Q. "How did you go to Lancaster?"
A. "In a car."
Q. "You mean in an automobile?"
A. "Yes —in a gas wagon."
Q. "Who went with you?"
A. "Bauer."
Q. "You mean he started with you?"
A. "Yes, he started with me."
Q. "How far did he go with you?"
A. "He got out of the car at the edge of town."
Q. "He told several people he was going to Lan
caster?"
A. "Yes, several people knew he was going to Lan
caster."
Q. "Then he left you at the edge of town and re
turned to the city ?"
A. "Yes, left me at the edge of the city and returned."
Q. "Why did he leave you ?"
A. "He said, 'I forgot a little job I have to do.'
"
Q. "What did you do in Lancaster?"
OCCULT KNOWLEDGE SOLVES CRIME 193
A. "I bought some things for Bauer."
Q. "Did you pay for these things in money?"
A. "No, I paid with checks."
Q. "Bauer gave you signed checks before you left?"
A. "No, I signed Bauer's name."
Q. "How could you sign Bauer's name ?"
A. "I wrote his name till he said it was perfect."
Q. "Here is a pencil. Write Bauer's name as you
signed it in Lancaster."
Sempf takes pencil and writes Bauer's name.
Q. "You signed Bauer's name and your name in the
hotel register?"
A. "Yes, I signed both names."
Q. "Why did you go with the man to the bank and
insist that the checks be cashed that day ?"
A. "It was closing hours. Bauer wanted the evidence
of that date, the 17th, on the check."
Q. "Bauer ordered you to be sure that the checks went
through on that date, the 17th ?"
A. "Yes, to see that they went through."
Q. "Do you know who killed Morton ?"
A. "I was in Lancaster. Bauer wanted control of the
factory."
Q. Handing him a little round object. "Look this
over carefully and tell me what it is."
A. Sempf takes object, looks it over and promptly
says, "It is Bauer's saw."
That was the last word or glimpse of the screen that
that little gathering ever had. With the last statement
of Sempf, "That's Bauer's saw," Bauer had leaped to his
feet and brought his two handcuffed hands down on the
i94 THE OPAL MATRIX
officer's head, who toppled over as if shot. Bauer made
a break for the door, but McCain was before him. Some
one shouted "Lights!" and almost immediately a glow
was turned on. It showed Bauer backing against the
wall and McCain advancing.
"Keep back, or I'll kill you. I should have done that
job before —you yellow spy."
McCain had stopped and was watching the des
perate man as he backed against the wall. Sempf's state
ment, "that is Bauer's saw," seemed to paralyze him at
first, then rage took possession of him.
"Say!" he hissed at McCain, "What did you give
Sempf to come across? The yellow cur! Say!" he hissed
again at McCain, as McCain produced his revolver and
seemed about to shoot him, "What do you want any
way? You've got the whole show. Do you want me to
say that I shot that old fool who thought he could run
a factory, or his damned nephew who wanted to show
his ears at the business?" Then, getting more violent
and excited, "What in the Hell did they know about a
factory?"
"Yes," said McCain, who was racking his brain for
means to keep the excited man talking, "yes, Bauer, you
pretty near pulled a perfect crime. A perfect crime," he
emphasized, "but for one little slip, when you dropped
that saw at Morton's feet. If it hadn't been for that slip,
you'd have pulled it off."
"Yes," acknowledged Bauer, "when I reached for
that gun and dropped my saw, I queered the game."
Then his mind seemed to go over the cause of his
OCCULT KNOWLEDGE SOLVES CRIME 195
failure. "The little saw and Sempf—the double-crossing
fool, but I got him."
Then he looked up and into the black barrel of Mc
Cain's revolver, and the prospect of sudden death cooled
his brain. His hands slumped as far as his bracelets
would allow and he said, "Oh, what the hell do I care?"
And he took one step toward McCain, a self-surrendered
prisoner. McCain conducted him out of the room.
Everyone was standing looking at his neighbor,
amazed at the success of the scheme. The Governor and
the Judge who had given the sentence had been invited
to hear the evidence for a pardon of George Morton, but
evidence which could not be brought before a jury. They
were all standing half-stunned at the sudden climax.
Judge Alvin was the first to break the momentary
static silence. He turned to the Governor, "I will pre
pare papers for the pardon of George Morton."
"At once," cut in the Governor. "That man has suf
fered enough at the hands of a scoundrel."
The Judge who had pronounced sentence on George
Morton, nodding his head at the thought of an agree
able duty, said, "It will probably be up to my bench to
send that scoundrel to the chair, where he belongs."
"The chair?" asked Deamati. "Send him to the chair?
What does he mean ?"
"Why," answered Barbara, "they execute criminals
in this State by electricity."
Deamati turned hurriedly to Judge Alvin. "Will you
please ask that Judge to come here a minute. J wish to
speak to him."
196 THE OPAL MATRIX
Judge Alvin called, "MacFerrin?" The Judge paused
and looked back, and Judge Alvin beckoned. The Judge
returned and was presented to Deamati. He said, "A
wonderful exposition, a new way to deal with crime."
Deamati replied, "Yes, there are many ways to detect
and deal with crime which are absolutely outside of your
cumbersome, indirect methods, but I heard you mention
the chair for Bauer. Is it possible that you could consider
such a crime as giving this man his freedom by death ?
Freedom to continue his vindictive career? Oh, no!
Not such a crime as freedom by death for such a man as
that! Confine him, put him to labor, rub the lesson in
well, but never give freedom to such vindictiveness as
he exhibits."
The Judge looked at Deamati in blank astonishment,
then he said with some heat. "Do you protest against
killing such a criminal as this scoundrel and ending his
career ? He has no hesitancy in murdering."
Deamati cut in, "Death does not end his career —it
continues his criminal propensities, and as to the man
shot, how do you know but that that man merited
death? Or what development his death may promote.
How do you know?"
"Say, these ideas are revolutionary. I never heard of
such opinions."
"I would advise," said Deamati, with emphasis on the
"Advise"—"that you let those ideas sink in. They are
vital. I will also give you another fact to debate over
thoroughly before discarding, and that fact
is,
as long
as
a
criminal
is
alive, you can confine him, and limit his
OCCULT KNOWLEDGE SOLVES CRIME 197
capacity for evil acts. But kill him and you liberate his
capacity for evil, which would wear out through con
finement. You are now in possession of this knowledge
and you will be held responsible for your decision."
The Judge looked antagonistically at Deamati and
replied, "I am not in the least impressed with the fact
that such ideas constitute knowledge."
"No?" she replied, with a rising inflection. "Then I
will place it in this way. The weight of the possessed
idea will have its influence in the balance of justice."
As he passed out, he remarked to Judge Alvin, "That
woman exhibits the possession of brains."
"Yes," coincided the Judge, "and you could have ap
propriately added to that—'Wisdom.'
"
He looked inquiringly at the Judge out of the corner
of his eye, but passed on in silence.
Ranier had stood by during this conversation between
Deamati and the Judge. He fell in step as she started to
join Franz and Barbara, who waited for her. He said,
"The Judge did not seem pleased at the introduction of
a new idea."
"No," she answered. "His brain is so full of statistics
and precedents that a new idea is an unwelcome visitor.
He has no foundation for the affinitized association of
a new idea. It is a troublesome factor."
She looked up at Ranier with a glint of humor in her
eyes and said, "I gave him some facts which he can't
get rid of, and those ideas will be called up every time
he renders a verdict, gives a sentence. Those ideas will
bob up and play gymnastics with his mental capacities."
198 THE OPAL MATRIX
As they were about to join her friends he asked, "May
I run out tomorrow night for another talk ? I want to
ask more questions."
She nodded assent, and Ranier turned to join his
friend, Vincent, who very shortly will cease to exist as
Vincent.
XX
GLEAMS OF ANCIENT WISDOM
THE
FOLLOWING evening Ranier called on Dea-
mati, and his first words were, "And to think that
my belief in my friend's innocence has resulted in all this.
Why, it is rather stunning to think of! Freedom, and
established innocence for George Morton, conviction of
the real murderer, all brought about by the capacity of
the human mind. It is really amazing to think of! And
then the bi-products of the affair are just as wonderful.
Your coming from India with your new visions."
He paused to think of their talks, Deamati's sermon,
her lecture to the girls, and the hypnotic revelations she
had drawn from Sempf .
Deamati cut in on his line of thought. "No, my friend,
I brought you old visions—so old that you could not
think of the time when they did not exist. What is new
is the vision of the student when he begins to break into
the realization of the existing realities of life, and starts
on the path which leads to the flowering of abilities.
The wonder of the realities are what you are breaking
into, but the vision is old, old.
"Thousands of years before a white man touched
American shores, thousands of years ago when Europe
was only tribes of semi-barbarians, thousands of years
199
200 THE OPAL MATRIX
before that time, the knowledge and the plan was old in
India and China. Wait a moment. I will give you a
glimpse of the ancient philosophy of China."
She soon returned with a book. "Given me before
sailing," she said.
"These things are being dug up and published. They
show you there is no new vision. The plan is old, but the
realization is new to every arrived student. Listen to this
old Chinese Philosopher :
"
'There are many things of which it is best not to
speak, for knowledge in the hands of those who do not
know how to use it is a curse. But counseled by those
who have greater wisdom than myself, it is right that I
should set down certain things which they have told me,
so that those whom they concern may read them. Others
also have received the Teachings of the Lords of Wis
dom, so there is nothing new in what I shall write here ;
these truths are as old as the Universe, and there shall
come a time when all must understand them, even
though now they fill men with fear. Yet those who are
unable to face Truth had better remain in ignorance. A
brilliant light will blind eyes not strong enough to gaze
upon
it.
"
'Only those who are emancipated from slavery to
possessions shall find the path. The Lords of Wisdom
will accept only those who are free of attachments to
possessions, for the entrance
is
so small that those who
would enter must leave possessions behind, but absence
of wealth does not always mean poverty. One may be
unattached, yet be
a
lord over many lands.
"
'For those who prize possessions, truth
is
unwelcome,
GLEAMS OF ANCIENT WISDOM 201
for it proclaims the dissolution of those things they
most value, death and decay of the body. Yet this is no
cause for despair. When the fool is faced by death, he
is afraid, being attached to the body he thinketh, "I shall
die." When the Lords of Wisdom proclaim that all
things are subject to change; that the body, the senses,
and the self are destined to pass away, the unattached
man is not afraid, for he knows that "I" is none of these
things. It is not the body, nor the senses; it is not affected
by pleasure or pain.
"
'It is an old truth that if a man act, the consequences
of his action will return to him as inevitably as night
follows day. For many this is a terrible teaching. Un
willing to face
it,
they call
it
"Platitude" and pass on their
way, but though they ignore this law, they are slaves to
it. There cannot be birth without death, action without
reaction; one event shall give birth to another. It
is
in
the ever present NOW that you must live
if
you would
be in harmony with life. For here there
is
only reality,
as the illusions of pleasure, pain, fear, are the result of
clinging to what has gone
by
and grasping for that
which
is
to come. Those who do evil for personal gain
will inherit ill fortune. Those who do good will inherit
good fortune, and those who are slaves to self will be
slaves to the effects of their deeds, which will come back
to the self.
"
'The prayers of
a
whole world could not stand be
tween
a
deed and its consequences. However your re
morse, you must inherit the destiny you have made for
yourself, for no power in all the seven realms can undo
what you have done, and not even the Lords of Wisdom
202 THE OPAL MATRIX
can force you to take a single step forward or backward
on the path.
"
'You can give a fool food but you cannot make him
eat. You can teach a man wisdom but you cannot make
him learn. Wisdom is not a gift. Wisdom is an achieve
ment.
"
'Beware of words. He who puts one sentence of this
book into practice is greater ten thousand times than to
remain satisfied with words. Words are not truth. They
are the finger which points the "Way." Pass on.'
"
She closed the book. "Consequently, you see there is
nothing new. Only to each student comes the new reve
lation of the old knowledge. And to the awakened every
thing brings a glowing admiration of the plan.
"One of the most important lessons in life is the dual
activity and interrelation of the various divisions of the
human mind, and knowledge of which division of the
mind dominates on the different planes as we proceed.
In physical life the conscious mind dominates, but on the
astral plane the next condition after the physical life,
the subconscious mind is the dominating faculty. Now
this is very important knowledge. Your subconscious
mind is the spiritual You—it is the sum of all your past.
It is what you have built into it throughout the evolu
tionary ages. And as your intelligent physical mind, on
the physical plane, has realized law, order, facts, truth,
exactness, beauty, honor, qualities of character, knowl
edge of—any subject —as you have built in the contents
of your subconscious mind, so you are, physically, men
tally, morally, and spiritually.
"Your real status classifies you in your next plane of
GLEAMS OF ANCIENT WISDOM 203
existence. If you have built haphazardly, blindly, accept
ing allegories for truth, fiction for facts ; if you have built
in deceit, deception, or a veneer —as you have built, so
you are, in your next stage, your next sphere of develop
ment.
"When you shuffle off the physical garb, as you would
a worn-out garment, you gravitate by the law of affinity,
to that state of development to which you have evolved,
and to which you are affinitized through vibratory at
traction.
"Now here is the great importance of this knowledge.
Your subconscious mind does not reason; it relates all
things which your objective mind has taken conscious
notice of, on this physical plane. And in this next plane
of activity, beyond the physical, you can continue relat
ing all the things which you have commenced here,
but— 'You cannot go further than the records of your
subconscious mind permit.'
"The acquisitive faculty belongs to the earth plane;
and you cannot start a new line of knowledge there,
that you have not built in the foundation for here on
the earth plane; there is no affinity for continuity. Con
sequently, this vision enables you to realize the great
importance of a constructive life and the great im
portance of acquiring constructive knowledge. Yes,"
she said, "the individual grades himself by his choice in
direction of thought and action."
Ranier had listened intently. He tried to realize the
vast scheme, the evolutionary sweep, the mechanism of
the mind and the gradual growth in comprehension.
He had been silent for some time. Finally he said —
204 THE OPAL MATRIX
thinking of presenting such ideas to his congregation —
"It is so revolutionary."
Deamati, understanding the trend of his thought, cut
in. "I am not trying to educate your congregation. I am
simply giving you a vision. I am showing you some of
the inside wheels of the machine. With the vision you
can gradually enlarge their conception, widen their
angle of vision. You can give life to static ideas. You
can vitalize the old familiar knowledge with the new in
terpretations. But, you must remember that the ideals
of the various religions are very necessary to the in
dividuals holding those various ideals. They play a very
important part in the plan, and help people to hold un
consciously to the ideal of perfection, toward which all
are evolving. Remember this— 'The religious ideal is
the stabilizing factor to the emotional individual.' There
are many people in that stage of progress that have not
reached the analytical stage of growth. The scientist is
in the analytical stage and is building in knowledge
accurately.
"It is no disrespect to God to investigate the plan
thoroughly. Man is on earth to learn The Plan and be
come a co-partner in carrying on the evolutionary
scheme. The scientist is a higher evolved individual than
the one who receives growth only through emotional
inspiration. You see, The Plan is beyond finite compre
hension in its greatness, and everything that
is,
is
a
necessary part of the plan. There are many paths, but
they all lead to one final goal.
"You, my friend, were ready for visions.
I
have given
you one. You can enlarge that vision and the vista."
XXI
A VERDICT BY SUGGESTION
FRANZ,
coming home late one night accompanied
by the Judge, said as they were gathered about the
dinner table, "This case of Bauer has created much
interest. It has been handled with dispatch. His lawyer
advised him to plead guilty as his only hope to escape
the chair. He comes before the Judge for sentence to
morrow morning."
Barbara asked, "The same Judge that passed sentence
on George Morton ?"
Franz nodded, "The same Judge, in the same court
room."
"I think," said Deamati, with a look at Barbara, "that
we would like to be present when sentence is given."
"Two judgments against two different people for the
same crime," observed Barbara. "How fortunate for the
Judge that the first sentence was imprisonment instead
of the death penalty. With George Morton alive, the
law can at least apologize for its mistake."
"Yes," admitted Judge Alvin, "it does look something
like a parody on justice to pardon a man for a crime
which he did not commit. The machinery of law is
rather a cumbersome affair. It is the outcome of the old
English law which was a forced concession on reigning
305
206 THE OPAL MATRIX
authority, designed to obtain some sort of justice for
the ordinary citizen. It has been amended and patched
up to meet the requirements of modern civilization. If,
with our past experience, we could start over and
mould a new code of law and eliminate unnecessary
technicalities—"
"And," cut in Barbara, "precedents for procedure."
"That was an unkind thrust," laughed the Judge.
"Franz, you should train your wife better than to in
terrupt the expression of judicial opinion."
"It is all Jimsie's fault," Barbara informed the table.
"He has preached legal procedure to me ever since I
could walk. He used to set me up on the table and ad
dress the Jury. And when I was older, we argued many
a case out of Court."
"Oh, I see!" observed Deamati, as if she had just
solved an unaccountable quality in Barbara's character.
"I see the origin of Barbara's requirement that every
question must be settled according to legal finality."
"Yes," agreed the Judge, "women as a race are so
devoid of logic that I took Barbara as an experiment to
see if that lacking quality couldn't be ingrafted into
their character."
"Judge," laughed Franz, "you should start a young
ladies college. You would be a success nationally and
historically."
"Well, it is my opinion," laughed Deamati (and when
Deamati laughed it was infectious; it was contagious),
"that this pardon for George Morton, his taking over the
factory, the real joy of the men at the return of the son
of the founder, the culmination and solving of this mur
A VERDICT BY SUGGESTION 207
der mystery—all together it has gone to your heads like
nectar, and you are all—happily irresponsible."
Franz said, "Correct diagnosis."
The Judge said, "Judicial discernment."
The next morning activity was evident in the Grayle
home at an early hour. Deamati had expressed a wish to
be present in Court when Bauer was sentenced. Any
wish expressed by that quiet, gipsy-looking personality,
was promptly filled. Her expressed wishes were very
limited and they generally related to other people or
their affairs.
Barbara had asked her once, "Is there nothing you
desire for yourself, Deamati?"
She had received a sharp, quick glance—then the re
ply in a slow way, imitating one of the children. "Yes,
Monchien, I have, but I possess the ability to attain most
of my desires, which you, honey, are not ready to bother
your pretty head about."
And then the Judge came and Barbara sat with a
puzzled look while Deamati asked, "Judge, what is the
longest time sentence the Court imposes on a criminal ?"
He looked her over leniently and inquired, "Espe
cially blood-thirsty this morning?"
"Well," she replied, explaining the question, "at that
screen produced evidence, when Bauer betrayed his
guilt, the Judge —," she hesitated.
"MacFerrin," he supplied.
"Yes, Judge MacFerrin said to the Governor, 'It will
probably be up to my bench to send this man to the
chair where he belongs.' And it is possible that a wave
208 THE OPAL MATRIX
of emotional resentment may influence such a verdict."
He looked mockingly serious, as he replied, "It is
hardly possible that MacFerrin can be influenced by
emotion. He is well fossilized. He will probably decide
strictly by the Code, uninfluenced by any fluctuation of
sudden feeling prompted by personal animosity."
"But," she persisted, "is it not within his province
to send this man to the chair?"
"Yes, he can either send him to the chair or give him
from twenty to ninety-nine years."
She looked meaningly at the Judge. "And there is no
precedent for a longer sentence ?"
"In that question," replied the Judge, "I recognize the
contaminating influence of Barbara."
Deamati turned to Barbara. "Yes, we will be present
when the sentence is imposed."
When Barbara and Deamati arrived at the court
room they were met by McCain at the door and he pro
cured them desirably positioned seats. Prisoners were
being brought in to receive sentences; most of them re
ceived the sentence in sullen silence. Finally, after
some conferences among lawyers, a voice called, "The
State against Alfred Bauer."
All eyes were turned to the prisoner being conducted
in by two officers. They slowly approached the Judge's
bench and stood facing him. The audience curiously in
spected the murderer, for whose crime an innocent man
had been convicted. Then the Judge addressed the
prisoner:
"Alfred Bauer, have you anything to say why sentence
should not be passed against you ?"
A VERDICT BY SUGGESTION 209
The prisoner was stoically silent. The Judge con
tinued, "For the crime of murder, proved and con
fessed, and for which one innocent man was convicted
through your crime, I condemn you to"— Suddenly he
paused. He had seen Deamati and Barbara when they
were ushered in by McCain. He looked in their direction
and said, "Has anyone present any comment to make
why sentence of death should not be given this pris
oner?"
Deamati arose to her feet and held up a paper. The
Judge ordered a court attendant to secure it. When it
was handed in he read it carefully, and for a moment
considered its import. Finally he looked at the prisoner.
"As Judge of this Court, I hereby order you, Alfred
Bauer, imprisoned in the State Penitentiary for the term
of ninety-nine years and three hundred and sixty-four
days."
Court was dismissed. Bauer was taken out by officers
amidst murmurs of dissent against a verdict of imprison
ment. Judge MacFerrin pushed his way through the
confusion to intercept the daughter of Judge Alvin and
her unusual guest. He had not forgotten the conversa
tion on the day when Bauer was stampeded into a con
fession. As Deamati predicted, those isolated ideas stuck.
He had thought of them often. "Kill him, and you
liberate his capacity for evil." And its accompanying
threat— "You are now in possession of this knowledge
and you will be held responsible for your decisions."
Those statements persisted; they were annoying and
at hand was the opportunity for their explanation. "Oh,
Miss Alvin!" he called.
210 THE OPAL MATRIX
She turned, saw the Judge, smiled and said, "Mrs.
Grayle."
He laughingly said, "Oh, of course, Mrs. Grayle. I
had forgotten the fortunate husband's name, but you
are to me Judge Alvin's daughter. It all seems such a
little time ago. How the time does fly."
He had been studying Deamati, and asked, with a ris
ing inflection, "And your companion?"
Barbara introduced them. "This is Deamati Korali, of
India, Judge MacFerrin."
He extended his hand, as he said, "I'll never forget the
lady from India, but we busy men fall short on remem
bering names. Would you ladies come into my office
for a few moments ? I would like to ask this lady to ex
plain some of her statements."
It was Barbara who replied. "With pleasure, Judge."
They followed him into a very legal-appearing room.
Deamati glanced around at the well-filled shelves of
books and observed, "So this is where you keep your
records of all your precedents ?"
"Yes," replied the Judge, "our precedents and a few
laws."
The Judge spoke of Judge Alvin and their earlier
association and of general interests. At last he turned
to Deamati.
"Your arrival here was very fortunate for Bauer. I
was about to order him executed and rid the world of
such a scoundrel. Then, I suppose your presence brought
that statement of yours to my mind, 'Kill him and
you liberate his capacity for evil.' Then the suggestion
bobbed into my mind to ask if anyone present had any
A VERDICT BY SUGGESTION
comment to make against a death sentence for this man.
You accepted the challenge and sent me that paper.
"It is a fact that the human mind can debate a ques
tion in a split second. I read that paper and the thought
flashed into my mind— Ninety-nine years will finish
him long before his sentence ends. So I substituted for
my original intention, the chair, and changed the verdict
to ninety-nine years."
Deamati cut in. "Judge, don't forget that three hun
dred and sixty-four days. That was a part of the sug
gestion."
The Judge asked, with some heat, "Do you mean to
say that I gave a verdict on a suggestion?"
"No, Judge MacFerrin, you cannot realize with your
perception what a crime it would have been to have
killed that man."
The Judge cut in. "Not rid the world of such a scoun
drel?"
"Yes, but killing him does not rid the world of a
scoundrel. Killing simply frees him to commit crime."
"Is that so?" scoffed the Judge. "What possible crime
could a ghost commit?"
"Judge MacFerrin, a ghost, as you term a disembodied
entity, can suggest crime, and in many cases, can induce
crime. You, yourself, have just obeyed a suggestion to
the last detail, even to the ninety-nine years will finish
him long before the expiration of his sentence. You re
ceived well in that split second, Judge. In order to make
sure that my suggestion would be in line with a pos
sibility, I asked Judge Alvin before coming to hear your
verdict what the extreme limit of a sentence was. I
212 THE OPAL MATRIX
added the three hundred and sixty-four days as an
additional inducement, and you acted on the suggestion.
Your mental reaction to the suggestion worked about
as follows: 'The three hundred and sixty-four days are
original. I like the idea. He will die before sentence ex
pires. The law allows me the option of choice.' And you
obeyed the suggestion and decided on ninety-nine years
and three hundred and sixty-four days. Consequently,
don't think for a moment that a criminal liberated by
death has not a capacity to commit crime. I planted the
seed of the suggestion in our first conversation which
made my suggestion of today operative."
The smile had vanished from the face of the Judge,
as he asked, "Was your desire to obtain a life sentence
for this man actuated by any doubt of his guilt?"
"None whatever, Judge. Weeks ago we knew all the
details of the murder in the office. We knew the very
words of the conversation before Bauer fired the fatal
shot, We also have a scribbled card written by his un
seen hand as he faced the man about to shoot him.
That card stated, 'Bauer has just killed George Mor
ton.'
"
"And," asked the Judge, "you suppressed such evi
dence, such vital evidence?"
"No—they were facts which could not be presented
to a jury. I sent out an entranced man to witness the
events of that night when Morton was shot. I am simply
telling you all these things to impress upon your mind
the fact that an executed criminal is more of a menace
than a confined one, and also to have you realize that
the directed forces of the human mind can solve all
A VERDICT BY SUGGESTION
physical life problems. The evidence unfolded by that
moving picture demonstrates that fact. Sempf in pos
session of his objective mental faculties would protect
and carefully guard all Bauer's guilty secrets, but with
his objective mind asleep and dormant —his subcon
scious mind revealed the actual facts relating to the
crime, and the details of that carefully contrived alibi.
Bauer did not know that Sempf was in a hypnotic con
dition. He thought that Sempf had betrayed him, had
sold his information."
The Judge slowly scratched his head to induce
thought. He was up against a new proposition, with no
precedent for reference and guidance, no code to direct
his opinion. The ladies arose to depart. Barbara extended
her hand at parting and they left a very mystified Judge
looking at their receding forms.
As Barbara turned the car in the direction of home,
she remarked, "The Judge seemed wonderfully short on
ideas. He simply had nothing to say."
Deamati said, "The Judge simply had no subconscious
records of any relating knowledge. He had no accu
mulated fund of that nature to draw on. And a gentle
man of that type could not be rude to a daughter of
Judge Alvin, so he allowed us to depart in peace. But,"
she concluded, "he is not comfortable with those strange
ideas of that lady from India."
XXII
LIVE EXPECTANTLY
ONE
AFTERNOON Deamati and Barbara occu
pied a favorite long rustic bench down by the
lake. The pleasing view of water and forest was entic
ing. The air, perfumed from a clump of sweet-briar
roses in the near vicinity, contributed a completing es
sence to the perfection of the day and the environment.
The occupants of this bench had been silent for some
time. Barbara had some piece of lace work which was
slowly growing into an intricate pattern. Deamati
looked idly out over the lake. Occasionally she would
turn her head and contemplatingly look at Barbara.
Suddenly she gave voice to her trend of thought:
"Barbara, the ideal continued becomes the common
place. It is the changing variety of scene, of experience,
and of association which shapes and gives direction to
the character of desire, approval, and endeavor.
"Happiness and contentment is the lot of those in
possession of their ideal—for a certain period ; for the rea
son that the standard of ideals is constantly changing
through experience and enlarging vision.
"The Law of Life and growth is change. Civilization
of the past, contented and satisfied to continue a vege
table growth, a static, non-progressing existence, has—
214
LIVE EXPECTANTLY 215
through a law of necessity which regulates the progress
and growth of humanity —been broken up by war, to
inaugurate new and higher standards of ideals and new
trends of progress.
"The progress of the evolutionary sweep, and the
evolutionary means to promote development, are exceed
ingly interesting. When the orthodox religionist bows
his head and says
—'It is the will of God'—those words
bring up a vision to the student of the Law, a picture
of all the operative machinery of evolutionary progress
which exists behind the veil; and the orthodox concep
tion of God seems to be the veil hung before the eyes
with the injunction— 'Thus far shalt thou see and no
further.' It is certainly bewildering to an Easterner that
the intellect of a nation, which practically and efficiently
handles every problem of life, can not handle the most
important subject —man's relation and conscious co
operation with evolutionary law.
"Nothing contributes so much to ability as that knowl
edge. Unconscious conformity is well, but conscious co
operation with nature's laws is vastly better. One is
instinctive guidance prompted by recorded past experi
ence; the other is intelligent action based on a knowl
edge of existing, operative law.
"Barbara, I have been thinking of many things, lately.
I am going away; I have completed the work here, and
now I am called elsewhere. And before I go, I want to
talk to you about yourself, and about your future."
Barbara had laid aside her work and centered her at
tention on Deamati.
"Barbara, your life has been, to a great extent, in
2l6 THE OPAL MATRIX
stinctive, intelligent conformity to constructive growth.
Anything not constructive wouldn't be Barbara. You are
going forward to the perceptive period, to a natural
unfoldment of abilities and faculties.
"There are changes coming in your life, but they are
all formative, constructive, and you are to consider them
as such. The attitude of mind regarding any change de
termines whether the change is an asset or liability. Non-
constructive conditions could not come to you. There is
no affinity for any adverse condition. Your freedom
from adverse attractions is a most wonderful status to
have attained, for that means preparedness for the un
folding of faculties.
"Barbara, I am going to give you a personal present.
Put it away carefully. It is your individual property."
Deamati searched her hand-bag and handed Barbara
her fire opal. As she drew it from its wrapping, its center
glowed like a live coal of fire.
Barbara eagerly reached for its attractive brilliancy,
held it up and examined it from reflective angles, admir
ing its beauty, while Deamati watched her, as she turned
the stone.
She moved near Barbara and demonstrated how she
should use the crystal.
"You know, Barbara, there are many people who
possess rudiments of faculties, glimpses of abilities. But
the perfection of a faculty belongs to the perfecting in
dividual. When the time arrives, you will feel the call
to unfold your abilities."
"But, Deamati," broke in Barbara, "this is your prop
erty, your useful implement. You know its secrets."
LIVE EXPECTANTLY 217
"Barbara, it is a small thing to give a friend, and when
I know it will contribute to the development of a
faculty, it is a pleasure. And, Barbara, regarding friend
ships —friendships between affinitized people; people
whose feet are on the path—never lose the connecting
link. Consequently I will tell you to live expectantly.
There are invisible ties to affinitized strata. And there
are faculties which cannot be developed associatedly."
Suddenly she asked, "Barbara, how far from here is
San Francisco?"
"Why," replied Barbara, in a puzzled tone, "San Fran
cisco is a week's journey on a through train." Then—
"But why did you ask for San Francisco? So far from
the trend of our conversation ?"
"Because, Barbara, I have had a message and a mis
sion."
They arose and slowly turned toward home, when
Barbara said, "No cable, no letter?"
Deamati smiled. "No, Barbara, no cable nor letter,
but there are many ways of receiving messages, more
direct, more certain of delivery—messages that never
miscarry. And Barbara, remember that many important
faculties are developed and become operative in the
leisure of silence, when free from interruption."
They walked along in silence, Barbara trying to real
ize the void in the home without Deamati —her lec
tures, her instructions, her vitality, their early morning
walks.
"Deamati, it will be like losing one of the family."
"Barbara, I came here through a line of attachment,
and the line holds and strengthens."
2l8 THE OPAL MATRIX
She gave Barbara's hand a firm pressure of friendship
and nearness.
"Yes," answered Barbara, "but the hand clasps and the
smiles, the comprehending look of understanding, the
simple joy of the presence; these things count so much
in life's values."
"Yes, yes, Barbara, I know ; but all these personal ties
will merge into a larger vision of relationship, of kin
ship, a reality which is not transitory, or visionary. The
future holds wonderful possibilities for attuned desire."
Then Franz, leading one of the children, was coming
down the road to meet them, and near the house was
the Judge looking for the women, and a summons to the
evening meal.
Supper that night was rather a gloomy affair. That
message to Deamati cast a shadow over the harmonious
household. They had talked over the sudden and un
expected message.
Deamati said, "When Rotanla summons there exists
a necessity for action." So Franz called up officials, to
find that the most desirable connections would be ob
tained by taking the four o'clock express the following
day. That left hours for a final adjustment of plans.
"And," added Franz, "it affords ample leisure for ar
ranging the means for continuing cordial, international
relations."
Deamati laughed at the idea, as they all gathered
around the table, for the last supper with her.
Barbara remarked, "If people only realized the knowl
edge of the Masters—what a Utopia this world would
be!"
LIV» EXPECTANTLY 219
"Well," replied Deamati, "it would be a chaotic
Utopia for emotional people suddenly possessed of for
bidden knowledge. Well," she laughed, "it would be
something like giving dangerous weapons to children.
But there is no danger of such a calamity, for their ig
norance protects them, and life insists on acquisition
being sequential."
"Yes," said Judge Alvin, "in estimation of changing
conditions one must always take in consideration the
fact that the large majority of mankind are in emo
tional grades. Pomp, show, display, all such things ap
peal to emotional feeling. It is the few evolved who have
outgrown the emotional appeal, and are guided by in
tellectual decision."
"Yes," said Deamati, "emotional control of action is
too well known to comment on. The rhythm of the drum
beat, the regular tread, tread, tread of a marching regi
ment appeals to the martial spirit, slumbering in every
man, and recruits for war flock to the standard of the
attracting rhythm. Throughout history emotional ap
peal has been the tool for controlling the mass of hu
manity. And such methods of control will continue
until the majority have evolved into intelligent guidance
of action.
"And yet," she concluded, "people wonder why the
teachings of the masters are not broadcast to the world,
for all to profit by, little realizing that an emotional at
traction to knowledge would be a serious interruption
to their line of procedure—should that knowledge be
attained. But there is a law that insists that knowledge
must be acquired sequentially, built in and related."
220 THE OPAL MATRIX
During an interlude in the conversation, Franz said,
"Deamati, there will be one man very much disap
pointed at your sudden departure without notice. I met
George Morton a few days ago, a fine fellow, and very
happy in the regained possession of his factory, and in
being reinstated in the old honorable family position.
He said that he owes you name, home, freedom, and
prosperity, and has simply delayed calling to thank you
for all that you accomplished for him. He asked me
personally to let him know in what form his gratitude
could be best expressed."
"Well, you tell George that Deamati says to pass the
obligation along to some fellow who deserves
it,
and
that
I
wish him joy, prosperity, and posterity."
"No,
I
shall not," declared Franz. "George's feelings
are far from levity.
I
shall give him your address, and
whatever he sends you, you will receive as homage from
a
sincere admirer."
"The real trouble with George," said Deamati, "I be
lieve he
is
a
little bit afraid of me.
I
really did George
a
great service.
I
demonstrated his ability to travel—it
is
the ability of an advanced person. He could continue the
cultivation of that faculty
if
he so desired; you might
inform him of that fact."
The hours of Deamati's presence at the Grayle home
passed swiftly and Franz and Barbara stood alone on
the platform watching the receding train as
it
carried
their unusual visitor toward the West and her far-off
India. As the last view of the train vanished in the dis
tance, Barbara asked, "Franz, will we ever see Deamati
again?"
XXIII
A LETTER FROM INDIA
TWO
LONG years had passed since Deamati had
delivered her lecture from Ranier's pulpit that
Sunday morning— "The Evolution of an Atom." From
that lecture dated a series of sermons which stressed
operating, reigning Law, as it related to life and growth.
Interest in Ranier and his new ideas grew and wid
ened and his influence extended beyond the confines of
his admiring congregation. But—if Ranier's contact
with Deamati's knowledge created a ripple of expand
ing influence—her lecture to the graduating class of the
girls' college produced a lasting memory. Not one of
that graduating class ever forgot that she was "The
Daughter of a King" and came from "Descent In
visible," and that her action must maintain the tradi
tion of her ancestry. Who shall say where the influence
of a lecture ended? So—the memory of Deamati lived
in the hearts of her friends and in the knowledge she
sowed in receptive minds.
One day when the oldest boy was eight years of age,
Franz received a letter with a foreign postmark, which
read:
Franz Grayle:
The ideal marriage which provides a suitable en-
221
222 THE OPAL MATRIX
vironment for the incarnation of advanced souls,
also requires the suggesting influence which will
awaken those latent capacities in consciousness that
will later blossom into fruitage, which will feed the
necessities of progressional development.
I send you X-22. Take him into your home and
family, lend a listening ear to his guiding sugges
tions, consider him an older brother, a longer
traveler, whose abilities and knowledge may guide
young minds into paths which lead to green pas
tures.
ROTANLA.
Affix and bear in mind, ever the possibility of a
future call.
Long Franz held and considered that letter. It brought
vivid memories of all his associations of the hidden val
ley, memories which were overlapped by years of happy
and purposeful life. The letter recalled freshly to mind
all the teachings and lessons which had so colored and
directed his life's activities. He could see Rotanla sitting
at his desk, quietly telling him of the laws of develop
ment and growth. Then into his mind flashed his last
glimpse of X-22 and his last words, "We are destined to
meet again."
Did destiny move a step every ten years? It was ten
long, happy years since destiny had pitched Barbara
into his arms on that steamer deck. It was ten years
since Deamati's laughing face had said, "Oh, no; I
would not mar the luster of one future experience by
foretelling its occurrence."
A LETTER FROM INDIA 223
This meant a new element in the home life and the
perplexing question was —what would be Barbara's at
titude toward X-22? Should he show her the letter—
the letter which brought her into relation with the
fraternity ? That thought let in a light on the problem.
Barbara's relationship with the fraternity.
He found her in the library reading a book the Judge
had recommended. "Dry?" he asked.
"No, Franz, it promises to be interesting. But, Franz,
what is it? What has occurred?"
"Something unusual, Barbara. Come by the lake. I
want to talk."
They went on in silence for some time, he thinking
how to broach the subject, she waiting for the revela
tion.
Finally he commenced:
"Barbara, there exists a fraternity which few people
ever dream of, and which members never speak of. In
the United States during the past ten years I have met
two members only."
She asked quietly, "Is Jimsie one?"
He nodded his head in reply.
"Yes," she said, "I have often thought some unusual
knowledge bound you together."
"Yes, Barbara, knowledge, ideals and status of de
velopment are binding ties. Knowledge can be given to
those ready for
it,
but the source and the fraternity are
a
sealed letter to all but initiates. But, Barbara, when the
plans of the fraternity are concerned with the develop
ment of our children, the mother
is
to be intrusted with
some knowledge of the existence of that fraternity
224 THE OPAL MATRIX
which has reached toward her through her children."
He handed her the letter he had received from Ro-
tanla. She read it through and then re-read it from a
new angle, and considered its importance —directing the
unfolding minds of her children. Then—
"Franz, this letter implies that you know X-22."
"Certainly I know him." And his enthusiasm in the
exclamation could have been used by a desert traveler
in talking of springs of cool water.
She was bewildered by his indorsement of X-22, con
veyed by that one statement, "Certainly I know him!"
"Franz, would Jimsie indorse X-22?"
"Unqualifiedly."
"Then, Franz, I trust in your judgment," and she ex
tended her hand to confirm her decision.
It was late in the afternoon when one of the children
told her, "Grandpa wants you on the phone."
She hurried in to hear Jimsie's animated voice. "Bar
bara, I'm running out this evening, bringing a friend
with me. A surprise for you. No more legality this
week," and he shut off before she could ask questions.
She told Franz, "Jimsie is coming out with a friend,"
and delayed supper until the arrival.
He came up the steps with the buoyancy of a boy,
followed by a tall, straight, pleasant-faced man, whom
Franz hastened forward to meet. A long hand-clasp
and he turned to Barbara. "You must know this friend,
Veryan Rayland, referred to as X-22. Mr. Rayland, this
is my wife."
He bowed low, a deferential, foreign mannerism, and
the friendly reassuring look of his keen eyes conveyed
A LETTER FROM INDIA 225
to Barbara a great relief, and her preconceived idea that
his presence would involve an unnatural restraint, an
awe of his superiority, was replaced by a feeling of kin
ship, of fellowship.
The cool fall evening made the cheerful fire in the
large old-fashioned fireplace, with its back log and
andirons, very acceptable and Rayland gave a quick
glance around the unusual room as they all sought chairs
in a circle which faced the fire.
Franz indicated to his guest that he select one of the
chairs. He chose a comfortable rocker, but before occu
pying
it,
he turned to Barbara, "Am
I
permitted the
honor of this
?"
"Certainly!" she replied, puzzled at "the honor."
He noticed her hesitancy and explained. "Deamati —
you have heard of Deamati?" She nodded assent.
"Well, she has some of these chairs, claims they are
the only ones in the province. She
is
very proud of her
chairs and an honored guest may occupy one."
"I
thought," put in Franz, "that anyone was honored
that Deamati talked to."
A
quiet laugh. "Then we will amend that
by
saying
—not all of her visitors are favored with the privilege
of her chairs."
They had been facing the fascinations of
a
wood fire
for some time, talking of general interests, Rayland tell
ing of the incidents of his voyage, the peculiarities of
localities, the people he had met, when he turned to Bar
bara with— "I understand, Mrs. Grayle, that these men
have been keeping secrets from you."
"Yes, they have," she acknowledged. "I have always
226 THE OPAL MATRIX
suspected it and I never thought it exactly fair to have
information between them which I could not share."
She ended with, "I never could understand a fraternity
keeping important knowledge from people."
"Well," he explained, "I wouldn't put it that way,
exactly. Keeping knowledge from people —you might
say
—'withholding knowledge.'
"
"Yes," chimed in the Judge, "for an incarnation or
so," and Rayland threw back his blonde head and
laughed in musical notes of merriment at the Judge's
joke.
"Anyway," he consoled Barbara for her deprivation,
"from now on I am going to confide to you some of
their secret knowledge. Did you get a letter from Ro-
tanla ? He said he would apprise you of my coming."
"Yes," she said, "Franz showed me the letter this
morning."
"Only that short notice," he said in surprise. "Why
that letter must have waited to come over on the boat
with me."
He spoke of things as if they had intelligence.
Then the children came trouping into the room from
their play—dirty, flushed little faces and inquiring eyes
that inspected the stranger. Rayland interestedly in
spected the children, as he was told each one's name,
and presently he had the little girl curled up in his lap,
and the others about his knees, and the older boy on a
stool drawn close, as he commenced to tell them of the
Jeni and the spirits which lived in the fireplace, in the
flame, and as he centralized their interests in his story,
A LETTER FROM INDIA
he said in an aside to Barbara, "The first secret of the
fraternity."
He told the children of the spirits which made the blue
flames and the spirits which made the yellow flames,
and the rivalry of which one could make the brightest
flame. Then he told them of the Jeni who governed all
the spirits of the different flames. Then, how the spirits
in wood hated the tribe of spirits that lived in coal. And
little eyes grew big with interest as they watched the
rivalry of the different colored flames and the exploding
rockets that sent bright sparks up the chimney.
A grotesque face seemed to form out of the smolder
ing smoke, and grin out from a dark corner. Presently
little heads grew drowsy and the younger children were
taken off to the children's room and the older boys to
bed.
Rayland watched the children until the last one had
disappeared behind closed doors; then he turned to the
group, each one of which had been interested in his
fairy tale.
"One of the most important necessities of childhood
is to awaken and cultivate the imagination, for the im
agination is the pilot of unfolding possibilities."
"Yes," agreed Barbara, "but it is a terrible disappoint
ment when children are older to learn that the spirits
of the flame are fairy tales and Santa Claus is possibly
one's parents."
"Ha!" exclaimed Rayland, "that is what is wrong
with this materialistic age. It reduces the spirit of the
flame to a combustion of gasses and disposes of Santa
228 THE OPAL MATRIX
Claus as an excusable fraud against trusting childhood.
The dreams of the alchemists come nearer to spiritual
perception than the chemical laboratories of modern
science. Behind invisible barriers the august fraternity
demonstrates to worthy seekers the truth of spirit force
imprisoned in all forms of matter. Spirit force was the
forming medium of every object in nature. Nature it
self is a revelation of spirit activity. You remove the
imprisoned spirit force of any condensed form and it
simply ceases to exist. The initiate sees and becomes con
scious of this reality back of nature. But the chemist
sees no further than the bricks which compose matter
and build up material forms.
"No, the spirit of the flame is the central reality and
the combustion of gasses is its liberation. The food we
eat goes through a form of combustion and liberates its
spiritual content which is absorbed into the cell structure
of the body. Living forms are a part of divine spirit. In
animate nature—as you term non-moving objects —are
imprisoned spirit force, and the initiate learns through
patient endeavor to control material nature by manipu
lation of subtle forces.
"The Jeni and nature spirits are the reality behind
forms."
He finished and laughed at Barbara. "So, Mrs. Grayle,
you enter into the secrets of the fraternity, and you com
prehend something of the all embracing nature of the
universal energy which you call 'God,' and when in the
dim future all this spirit force which animates life
forms, and all the imprisoned spirit force, in what you
term inanimate matter, is reabsorbed into its original
A LETTER FROM INDIA 229
source —there will be nothing left but the dead ashes of
an extinct world, to be swept away into the vastness of
universal space.
"Mrs. Grayle, you must understand that imprisoned
spirit force is the essential essence of everything in exist
ence, and the vast storehouse of chemical elements, the
electrons, the numerous ethers, as yet unlisted by chem
ists, are the bricks which spirit force uses to build into
myriad shapes.
"Yes," he smiled, "I know it is difficult for the finite
mind, with dormant sense perceptions, to realize the fact
of spirit life divorced from material encasements, but
it is possible for ordinary sight to perceive under certain
conditions."
He suddenly turned to Barbara. "What do you know
of a rather large dog, a cream-colored dog, with wavy
fur, some big brown spots and one black ear?"
"Why," exclaimed Barbara, in amazement, "that's
Bruno, our dog that disappeared mysteriously a few
months ago. What do you know about Bruno?"
"Come, Bruno," he called, and held out his hand
toward an empty space. "What do I know about Bruno ?
Why, Bruno is an excellent subject to demonstrate to
you the reality of spirit form, divorced from his material
body. Ha! Old fellow," and he again held out his hand.
Barbara looked at Franz. But the summons to the
delayed supper deferred the demonstration of Bruno's
real ethereal existence for several days.
Thus Veryan Rayland drifted into the family life. He
became the central interest of each member of the fam
ily, including Jimsie, whose week-ends at times length
23o THE OPAL MATRIX
ened into encroachments on other days. At times the
Judge carried Rayland to the city for days, where they
visited clubs, met prominent men of dominant influence,
and ever some charm drew all men to Rayland.
Once the Judge remarked, "Rayland, your influence
could soon dominate the policy of the community." At
which he replied, "Each individual is busy weaving his
own destiny. Why should I interfere with the pattern
or mar its design?"
XXIV
THE VAPOR TRAP
AFEW days after his arrival his baggage and
trunks were delivered and carefully placed in his
room, at which he remarked:
"Now the program for Bruno's appearance will pro
ceed as soon as the Judge arrives with the last ingredi
ent."
So when the Judge arrived for the week-end visit, a
mysterious looking, small jar was placed in warm water
near the fireplace. Later in the evening, when the chil
dren had gone to their rooms, Rayland asked for a dish
similar to the one that had been used in feeding Bruno.
Having the dish, he produced a large cord which he
proceeded to immerse in some fluid and then arranged
it in a circle not far from the fireplace, explaining as he
proceeded!
"This is a trap for Bruno. From ancient times, witch
doctors, sorcerers and black magicians have used blood
to attract into visibility the denizens of the lower regions.
So we use their old bait to catch Bruno.
"There is a weird potency in blood, a mysterious at
traction for all the blood-eating tribe. The pagan priest
of mythology knew the spell of blood. The Voodoo doc
tor used fresh blood in his conjuring feats of mystifica
231
232 THE OPAL MATRIX
tion, but we only want to catch Bruno in our circle of
vapor. Here, Bruno, old fellow—come!"
He placed the dish in the center of the circle and
pouring the blood into the dish, backed out of the cir
cle. The ends were parted to admit Bruno and the dish.
As he backed out he closed the ends of the circle, ap
plied a lighted match to the cord and instantly there
was a circle of faint blue vapor. And within the circle
the outline of an animal. It rapidly grew in detail to a
dog lapping at the odor of the blood.
"I see Bruno," exclaimed Barbara in excitement.
"Yes," echoed the Judge, "it is the identical dog—the
work of a magician."
"No," laughed Rayland, "it is the effect of the vapor.
Our task was to get Bruno in that circle and our only
sufficiently enticing bait was the odor of blood. No leash
can hold, no bonds can hold an astral form. It is as
illusive as a morning zephyr in sunshine, but it must
have some material medium to be perceptible to or
dinary sight."
They watched Bruno lap at the blood, but he soon
began to show concern at the wall of vapor, which en
closed him on every side. He grew restless as he realized
the trap. Then the vapor began to die out, and the dog
grew less distinct. Suddenly he looked at Barbara and
bounded out of the circle into invisibility.
"Well," breathed the Judge. "The most interesting
phenomena I ever witnessed."
"Yes," agreed Rayland. "It is an illumination of the
reality of the astral world, which is peopled with myriad
of life and forms. It is not a misty region of the imagina
THE VAPOR TRAP 233
tion. It is as solid a reality to its inhabitants as this en
vironment is to us, and to advanced initiates, a world
subject to his will and his commands."
"I wish the children could have seen Bruno," said
Barbara.
"No jumps for those children," advised Rayland.
"Their faculties of perception are gradually unfolding
naturally. They will both see and hear. And a word of
caution—never blunt a developing sense perception by
doubting its fragile existence."
In a short time Rayland had won the affections of
the children and he taught them innumerable things
through games; in fact, all learning became a game, or
the necessary rules for understanding a game. Even
grammar —that bane of youthful school experience —be
came one of the most interesting of games. Judge Gram
mar ruled the world of conversation and language and
the parts of speech were his subjects, and woe betide the
guilty one who encroached on the rights of a neighbor,
for Sergeant Syntax would arrest the culprit, bring him
before the court to adjust his offense or pay the penalty.
And when youthful imagination began to weave im
aginary fantasies into the field of reality, Rayland would
tactfully say, "Now wait a minute! I want to know if
this really happened, or is this make-pretend?" And the
little mind would pause and see the classification. Then
often in the future when describing some realistic air
castle, the child would pause, look shyly at Rayland and
volunteer, "Now this is make-pretend" —at which Ray
land would nod understandingly and say, "I am glad
you told, because I want to know if what you tell me be
234 THE OPAL MATRIX
longs to the really happened—or to the make-pretend."
So developing faculties of youthful minds were never
blunted by a doubt of their truthfulness, but they were
redirected into channels of rational classification.
Time slipped by, as time will do with growing chil
dren. Those unfolding minds were often a surprise to
their elders. Barbara often declared that they used words
and expressed ideas which they had never heard from
their parents.
Rayland not only guided and directed the unfolding
mental capacities of the children, but he developed their
physical bodies by games, exercises and stories of heroic
accomplishments. He taught them how to breathe; a
little revolving wheel registered breathing capacity.
This he used in a game of rivalry for lung development.
He would say, "Now here is a new game," and any game
he proposed was eagerly taken up and learned with in
terest and enthusiasm. And as he developed the latent
capacities in child consciousness, he at the same time
taught the parents the laws governing childhood. Some
of those important things were —
"The child is a human air plant. It is not planted in
the ground, but in the air. It absorbs its nourishment
first from the mother, then when physically independ
ent, its spirit is nourished from the atmosphere, its
parents radiate through thought and action."
"The blossom, the husk, the bark, the leaf—all fall
away when they have served their purpose, and the wind
carries them away; so, too, with children's bad habits."
THE VAPOR TRAP 235
"Parenthood is the nursery for the incarnating ego,
which is born with millions of potentialities, which
must come out. The good ones, finding kindred nour
ishment and recognition in parents, live. The bad ones,
finding no recognition or nourishment, will die."
"Infancy, babyhood, and young childhood are the
springtime of life. The conditions and influences re
ceived then last through life, and are powerful in the
summer and fruit-time of life."
"The necessity exists for allowing the child to build,
even if it builds wrongly. It is exercising the creative in
stinct, opening the channel to the coming in of future
forces for growth."
"The important thing in parenthood is to watch the
intent, and not the result. If the intent is all right, never
mind the result."
"The ideal environment is one which, by suggestive
ways, helps the child to unfold through desire which
will eventually realize possession."
"Do not be a disciplinarian of the child. Remember,
you are a gardener. And only by providing right en
vironment can you be a disciplinarian spiritually."
236 THE OPAL MATRIX
"The impulse of the parent has always been to pro
vide a perfect physical body, but only the perfect physi
cal body can be realized through a perfect spiritual body.
Thought unfolds spiritually and builds physically."
XXV
DESTINY MOVES ANOTHER STEP
THE
DEVELOPMENT of the children proceeded
rapidly, but it almost seemed more like recalling to
their minds knowledge which they possessed, rather
than presenting them new ideas. As they grew older
and developed specialized interests, Rayland would
stimulate an interest by talks, lectures, books, and always
he showed the relation of subjects to universal law.
He stressed the importance of thorough, detailed
knowledge. He said, "At the end of every line of study
is the consciousness of spiritual law."
Thus interestedly occupied, the years passed quickly
and the tenth year of Rayland's visit drew to a close,
when one morning Franz received a letter with a pe
culiar foreign postmark.
He studied that letter some time before opening, and
the writing was vaguely familiar. He had a sudden
premonition of change —of disturbing news—and when
Barbara came to meet him with some problem, some
item of interest, he put the unopened letter in his pocket,
and it was later in the day when alone down by the lake,
that he opened the letter to find that it was from Ro-
tanla.
237
THE OPAL MATRIX
Franz Grayle:
Ten years ago I sent you X-22 to assist in establish
ing contacts, and opening avenues which would fos
ter the development of those latent possibilities in
the inner-consciousness of those advanced egos—
your children —attracted to your environment and
committed to your care.
When you were sent out from the valley, back
into the world to round out your present incarna
tion, the fraternity knew of the rounded develop
ment which would result from the experiences of
your life. They also knew the opportunity your en
vironment would offer to advanced entities await
ing incarnation.
An advanced entity in a new earthly life, failing
to receive the vibratory call to its awakening, may
drift a lifetime to await a future summons. Conse
quently, I sent you X-22, to assist in giving the call
to non-active consciousness. He had the assistance
of interested, intelligent, family co-operation, and
his mission has been successfully accomplished.
Those purposeful young lives —responding to
awakening suggestions —will affinitize to their des
tiny.
Your cycle, rounded out in purpose, and by ex
perience, you may pause a while, or go forward. The
valley sends you greetings and a return welcome.
However —the choice is left to your decision.
The temporary severance of congenial ties must
be weighed against the opportunity for accelerated
DESTINY MOVES ANOTHER STEP 239
development, which development places the initiate
far in advance of the average human family on the
road to attainments on the path to the goal of illu
mination, from which advanced achievement of in
telligent perception, one can dip down into human
life and awaken young sleepers to a knowledge of
their inheritance.
Did it ever occur to you that the vast majority of
mankind are born to a life of conflicting progress,
but which life contains the elements of their educa
tional necessities?
The intuitive Mother instinctively guides her
child to limited intelligent perception. But compare
instructive guidance to illuminated, intelligent lead
ing.
I sent you X-22 to guide the awakening process.
Consider these matters. Think them over. And then
give your decision to X-22, who has received the re
turn summons.
Rotanla.
Affix: To the beautiful lady, the intelligent com
panion, the devoted mother, the human co-operator
in the Divine scheme, great is her reward in pro
portion to her promotion of the fraternal plan of
assistance.
R.
Franz read and re-read that letter for light on de
cisional action. His two absorbing interests in life were
the fraternity, its mysterious knowledges, and his home,
24o THE OPAL MATRIX
family ties, Barbara and their children. He thrilled as he
read, "Greetings and a return welcome." His call. This
greeting to him from Rotanla.
Then memory bridged ten years to the last line of
Rotanla's first letter —"And ever in mind, the possibility
of a future call."
So it had come at last, and the priceless privilege was
his, to know the joy of going on. But at what a cost!
What a sacrifice! How could he make a decision be
tween these conflicting interests?
In his dilemma he glanced up and saw Rayland com
ing down the path toward the lake. He had a sudden
gleam of assurance that Rayland could, in some way,
help him, and as he came up, Franz extended a hand
with Rotanla's letter, which Rayland took, glanced
casually at the writing, the postmark on the envelope,
and returned it with the statement:
"Yes, I know. I am informed and you are unable to
decide the wise course to pursue. Come! Let us talk it
over from my viewpoint."
He turned into a path which led by a winding way
into the wooded portion of the estate. After a silence of
some minutes, he said:
"Yes, Franz, it is a difficult choice for you to make
without my help. Your inclination would decide for
the home, fireside and companionship, but the illu
minated view sees the accruing results from the necessity
of self-decision by those children.
"They have been led into awakenment by cleverly
baited interests, love, rivalry, curiosity, and an instilled
desire for acquiring knowledge. You noticed that I
DESTINY MOVES ANOTHER STEP 241
omitted the word 'coercion?' They do not know the
meaning of that word. And do you realize what that
means to a child life—being led to do what you want
them to do, through attraction, through skillfully-
planted seeds of desire? In consequence they have ar
rived free agents.
"Now, let reaction of procedure be a finishing school,
and the impulsed promptings of past incarnations will
direct their paths of life to achievement. If they lean on
you to sanction their directing endeavors, they fail to
grow that fiber of character which alone comes from
personal initiative.
"Now the mother, Barbara, that gracious, beautiful
character, who has taken me in unqualifiedly as a mem
ber of her home, would you retain her in the apex of her
vitality, her active intellect, her force of personality —
or would you choose to go down the years of age
with failing faculties and dimming perceptions? You
will acknowledge that is the fate which awaits all hu
manity.
"On the other hand, will you choose to further round
out your present cycle of life by a double achievement in
a single incarnation? Gain the ability to spiritually ap
preciate and value the occupants of those physically at
tractive bodies of wife and children —for the physical
body is the objectized evidence of spiritual status."
He paused, then continued:
"Yes, there are innumerable reasons why you should
accept the call, why you should exchange a few fleet
ing years, which hasten to an endurance of physical
infirmities, for the realities of spiritual perception, which
242 THE OPAL MATRIX
ever retains the vital past, but transformed into spiritual
equations.
"You gain the heights, and you attain the ability to
assist and lift your affinitized loved-ones to your eleva
tion.
"You see," he smiled, "it is very difficult to explain
the limited perception of all the benefits that will accrue
to you in obeying the call."
They returned to the house without conversation.
And as they separated at Barbara's rose garden, Franz
said, "Rayland, in a few days I will give you my an
swer."
And Rayland nodded in assent.
######
Franz went to the library, locked the door to be free
from any intrusion, and wrote the record of events to
date, including Rotanla's letter and Rayland's counsel.
With the manuscript in his hand he sought Barbara.
He found her with their fair young daughter, busily
engaged in arranging the details of the daughter's birth
day party—her fifteenth birthday. How like Barbara
she was! And what a pleasant scene they presented, sit
ting at a desk busy with letters.
Franz felt a pang of sadness as he watched the eager
young face, arranging her list of invitations, with Bar
bara's assistance.
Barbara looked up, arose and came toward him. "Yes,
Franz."
They walked out into the warm spring air before he
spoke.
DESTINY MOVES ANOTHER STEP 243
"Barbara, another period of time draws to a close,
and destiny, it seems, moves a step every ten years. An
other decision is necessary, another change faces us."
He handed her the manuscript.
"Read it and you will understand all. It is a personal
record, so preserve it from all observation."
He left her and turned into a path, while her eyes
followed until some shrubbery hid him from view.
Then, with his record, she went to her room.
######
The day following, Franz, Barbara, and the Judge had
a long talk and decided many changes. Franz would
accompany Rayland on his recall to the hidden valley.
The Judge would discontinue his official duties and
come out and live with Barbara and the children.
"For," he said, with a smile, "my monetary accumu
lations, together with Franz' larger financial interests,
will keep me from sighing for commercial activities."
There followed pleasant days "to speed the parting
guest." Rayland, by his remarks, seemed to be familiar
with all their arrangements, for all his remarks seemed
to coincide with the arranged plans.
One evening they were talking over business manage
ment during Franz' absence, when Rayland broke in:
"I nearly failed to remember the commercial prob
lem regarding the children, and it is of great importance.
The lack of restricting the expenditures of boys and
young men has been the source of endless regrets by
parents and of remorse to boys. A full purse and the
high spirit of youth is a combination that invites ex
244 THE OPAL MATRIX
cesses. And the text of my remark is found in the truth
of the quotation: 'A virtuous man whom poverty has
preserved from vice.' A restriction is often a prevention
to instinctive action 'of that dormant savage slumber
ing in every youth.'
"
"Yes," agreed the Judge, "I recognize the wisdom of
such a restriction, and the management of an allowance
will—besides being a safeguard —teach many valuable
lessons."
The day before sailing, Franz spent most of his time
alone with Barbara. She understood his struggle in
choosing between the conflicting interests, and she sup
pressed her own desires in furthering his advancement.
Not once, during the ten years Rayland had been a
member of her family, did she doubt Rotanla's wisdom
in sending him to direct the awakening intelligence of
her children. Consequently she had a founded faith in
his intelligence. And the hints of things mentioned in
his amazing letter —she held her breath when she
thought of such possibilities. She trusted unreservedly
to the future.
Franz could not comprehend Barbara's absolute trust,
but he was greatly relieved. All stress and tension at the
idea of separation vanished. They re-read Rotanla's let
ter together and talked over the possibilities of its veiled
promises.
Barbara said, "Franz —Rotanla said, 'Your cycle
rounded out in purpose, and by experience. You may
pause a while, or go forward,' and we choose to go for
ward, to trust the future and Rotanla's wisdom."
DESTINY MOVES ANOTHER STEP 245
"And, Barbara, treasure that manuscript as a family
inheritance, and when you consider the time ripe, let
each child read and absorb its knowledge, for it is in
reality a road map of life and guidance."
Several days after Franz and Rayland had departed on
their journey to the hidden valley, Barbara called Rich
ard, her eldest son, to her room. She looked in admira
tion at the fine face, and tall, manly form, as she said:
"Richard, your father has gone on a long voyage. He
left this letter for you. And this manuscript which you
may read. The other children will read it when I think
the time has arrived for them to know what it contains.
You are soon going to college, out into the world, to
learn the phases of life, which your home cannot teach.
And I think you should have this, as a basis for your
judgment of values."
Richard took his letter and the manuscript. Later he
gave Barbara his father's letter, which read:
My dear son Richard:
I am called to continue some portion of my de
layed education and you will understand somewhat
the nature of this education when you read the
manuscript which your mother will intrust to your
care. This manuscript, these notes, this partial diary
of certain significant events in my life, commenced
over thirty years ago. They were written down at
the time of occurrence, to keep fresh in memory the
important knowledge conveyed.
I have talked over with Rayland my intention to
246
THE OPAL MATRIX
allow you to read this record, and he agrees that this
matter to a certain extent belongs to our family.
And he is confident that certain information—that
portion pertaining to the fraternity —will be con
sidered an obligation of a personal nature, not to be
revealed outside of our family.
Confine your talk regarding these matters to your
mother and Judge Alvin, wise counselors in all
things.
I would not give you knowledge which would
make your association with your friends difficult.
Simply consider that you have received advanced
knowledge, which others are not yet ready for.
You have been so well trained by Rayland regard
ing mental receptivity, regarding discrimination of
vital knowledge, that extra instruction from me
will seem like a repetition. However, I will say an
asset to ease of living is a quiet happiness of life, a
listening attitude of expectancy, and an orderly exe
cution of arrived at intentions.
First, the vision; then its concretion; and con
creted visions is the road to progress.
Happiness is that reflex glow which comes with
the acquisition of new knowledge —new visions.
Lastly, mould your life on ideals which constitute
a suitable preparation for a possible call to you, in
the future, from the hidden valley.
Your affectionate father,
Franz Grayle.
P. S. These events in my life, which have so shaped
my destiny, I have written down in the form of a
DESTINY MOVES ANOTHER STEP 247
story. It is easier to write in that form and more
pleasant to read. Besides, it is much better should
this manuscript ever fall into the wrong hands that
it be considered merely a story.
Tke Opal Matrix
247 Pages
BY W. Jerome Chambers
- Price $2.00 Postpai
"The Opal Matrix" is enthusiastically indorsed by readers. The folio*
ing are extracts from personal letters written to the Author letters fro
New York, San Franciso, Detroit and Pasadena.-
"The Opal Matrix brings one new visions of high ideals.*'
"It is one of the most interesting books I ever read; A book I have read an
reread with both pleasure and much profit.''
The Renaissance Book Company States- "The theme is excellent, it
engrossing from start to the finish."
"The Opal Matrix is as charming a peice of fiction as I ever read; ai
I am not so sure that it is all fiction."
"For a really fascinating book; I will recommend The Opal Matrix."
Following lines from the book, gives some idea of its original contents.
"The fetters of ignorance."
"A pauperzed life here, devoid of educational contacts, means an ir
poverished heaven."
"Heaven is a realm of freedom to those not held in bondage by the sorrow i
of their friends."
"People are busy paying past contracted obligations, and until tl
obligation is paid, the vision is obscured."
"Jamsie gave me a Diamond, and told me to convert that Diamond in
an Engagement Ring, and to wear that ring until he without coertion-consig:
ed me to a Mate of his approval,"
Copies may be obtained at local Book Stores,
Southern Distributor
W. J. Chambers 627 South Court Street Montgomery Alabama
