{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__carrington___the_psychic_world.pdf","mytitle":"The Psychic World","mylang":"de"}
The Psychic World
By
Hereward Carrington
Director of the American Psychical Institute;
Member of the "Scientific American" Committee;
Permanent American Delegate to the
International Psychical Congresses.
GP-PUTNAM'S SONS
NEW YORK
1937
COPYRIGHT, 1937, BY HEREWARD CARRINGTON
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AT THE VAN REES PRESS
Dedicated to
Marie
my collaborator in life,
love and letters ;
Without whose presence I could never
have begun this book; without
whose absence I could never
have finished it.
M15 1.59
Preface
The recent marked revival of interest in psychic
topics has prompted me to submit this book to the
reading public. In it will be found, I believe, a con
siderable amount of new material, which has thus far
not been covered by other books dealing with this
subject —much of it representative of my own thought,
after having devoted more than thirty-five years of my
life to this interesting question.
The book falls naturally into two parts, the first
being composed of discussions of particular problems
connected with psychical research; the second dealing
with psychic phenomena among primitive peoples. The
latter subject is of interest for the reason that it has
in the past rarely been touched upon from any point of
view other than that of the anthropologist, who almost
invariably regards such cases as necessarily fictitious,
and as representative, merely, of the erroneous beliefs
of primitive minds. If such phenomena have any actual
bases in reality, however, and can be found paralleled
in our own society, this throws an entirely different
light upon the whole problem, since they are at once
removed from the realm of folk-lore and placed into
that of psychic science. The changes which this would
necessitate in anthropological research are obvious.
In Part I, devoted to modern psychic phenomena in
our own civilization, some of the more difficult prob
lems are dealt with —in a semi-popular fashion, how
ever, rendering them (I hope) of interest to the gen
eral reader. The solution of some of these riddles in
viii Preface
turn throw light upon the primitive phenomena, so that
the two parts of the book thus fit together like a jig
saw puzzle.
Some of these Chapters have already appeared in
psychic Journals, and thanks are due their Editors for
permission to reprint them here.
Also to The Macmillan Company, for permission to
quote from Dr. William McDougall's Body and Mind;
to Henry Holt and Company, for permission to quote
from Bergson's Mind Energy and from Giles' Civiliza
tion of China; to G. P. Putnam's Sons, for permission
to quote from Jevons' Personality ; to Harcourt, Brace
and Company, for permission to quote from Seabrook's
Magic Island; to Houghton Mifflin Company, for per
mission to quote from Percival Lowell's Occult Japan;
and to various publishers for the shorter quotations
included.
H. C.
Contents
FAGS
Introduction : The Tyranny of Dogmatism xi
Part I
Psychic Phenomena in Modern Civilization
i. The Confessions of a Psychical Researcher 3
2. Some Personal Psychic Experiences 1 1
3. What Constitutes a Psychical Researcher 24
4. The Psychology of Genius 37
5. Personality and Personal Identity 77
6. Deja Vu; The Sense of the Already Seen 98
7. The Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 109
Note: On the Uncertainties of Memory 136
8. Animal Psychism 142
9. Concerning Levitation 157
10. Yoga Philosophy 181
Part II
Psychic Phenomena 'Among Primitive Peoples
Introductory—Telepathy and Clairvoyance
—Cases of Prediction —Apparitions and
Haunted Houses —Poltergeist Cases —
Mediumistic Phenomena —Psychic Phe
nomena in China —Occult Phenomena in
Japan — Siberian Shamanism — Malay
Magic and Spiritualism —In Tibet: The
tz
Contents
Astral Body — The Fire Walk — Rain
Making and Rain Makers—Secret Oc
cult Societies —Voodooism —Magic and
Witchcraft—Conclusion 197
INTRODUCTION
The Tyranny of Dogmatism
A history of popular opposition to new ideas or new
truths would fill a volume of many hundred pages, and
would constitute a melancholy human document. This
opposition is doubtless almost as old as human thought
itself. Plato, in his Republic, tells us that when Socrates
stated his conviction that only philosophers should be
appointed rulers of the people and of the state, his
listener, Adeimantus, replied:
"Socrates, what do you mean? I would have you
consider that the word which you have uttered is one
at which numerous persons, and very respectable per
sons too, pulling off their coats all in a moment, and
seizing any weapon that comes to hand, will run at
you might and main, before you know where you are,
intending to do heaven knows what; and if you don't
prepare an answer, and put yourself in motion, you
will be 'pared by their fine wits,' and no mistake."
It is hardly necessary to remind the reader of the
bigotry and intolerance of the Middle Ages when men
burned, tortured and killed one another because of the
slightest difference in point-of-view, the interpretation
of a word or the rendition of some Biblical text. Those
days, we trust, have gone forever; but the spirit which
inspired that opposition and those cruelties is still
strong, and the basic resistance to any ideas running
counter to those of the Herd is still a fundamental
part of human nature. Nowadays this usually takes
the form of ridicule or attempted disproof of the ideas
zi
xii Introduction
offered, but the psychological mechanism involved is
fundamentally the same. Let us take a few examples of
this, drawn from our own times —or within the past
century—and we shall see that scientific truths which
today are accepted by us as a matter-of-course were at
first received with the utmost incredulity and aroused
the greatest opposition —largely from the scientific
men of the time.
When railways were first constructed, engineers pre
dicted that they could never become practicable; and
that the wheels of the locomotives would simply whirl
round and round without moving forward. In the
French Chamber of Deputies, in 1838, Arago, hoping
to throw cold water on the ardor of the partisans of
the new invention, spoke of the inertia of matter, of
the tenacity of metals, and of the resistance of the air.
'M. Prudhom said that "it is a ridiculous and vulgar
notion, that railways will increase the circulation of
ideas." In Bavaria, the Royal College of Doctors hav
ing been consulted, declared that railways, if they were
constructed, would cause the greatest deterioration in
the health of the public, because such rapid movement
would cause brain trouble among travelers, and
vertigo among those who looked at moving trains.
I myself remember that an expert mathematician
once explained to me how heavier-than-air flying ma
chines could never become practicable, because gravity
would overcome any possible upward pull by the en
gines and wings of the machine.
It is a matter of history how the banks of the Hud
son River were lined with jeering crowds, to see the
utter failure of Fulton's steam boat, which neverthe
less steamed majestically up the river.
Introduction xiii
When it was first proposed to lay a submarine cable
between Europe and America, in 1855, one °f tne
greatest authorities on physics, Babinet, a member of
the Institute, wrote:
"I cannot regard this project as serious; the history
of currents might easily afford irrefutable proof that
such a thing is an impossibility, to say nothing of new
currents that would be created all along the electric
line, and which are very appreciable even in the short
cable crossing from Calais to Dover. . . ." (Revue des
Deux Mondes.)
The first bathtub in the United States was installed
by Adam Thompson, a wealthy grain and cotton dealer
of Cincinnati, in 1842. He had lately returned from
London where he had heard that the Prime Minister
had such a device. On December 20, 1842, he had a
party of gentlemen to dinner, all of whom tried out the
new invention. The following day, the story was in the
papers and Thompson was attacked both by doctors
and politicians. We do not find that Thompson was
required to pay a fine, but the discussion in connection
with the bathtub resulted in various measures for the
restriction of its use. The Common Council of Phila
delphia considered an ordinance to prevent any such
bathing between the months of November and March !
Virginia had a tax of $30.00 a year on all bathtubs and
extra heavy water rates. In Boston there was an ordi
nance forbidding their use except on medical advice !
Camille Flammarion tells us :
"I was present one day at a meeting of the Academy
of Sciences. It was a day to be remembered, for its
proceedings were absurd. Du Moncel introduced Edi
son's phonograph to the learned assembly. When the
xiv Introduction
presentation had been made, the proper person began
quietly to recite the usual formula as he registered it
upon his roll. Then a middle-aged academician, whose
mind was stored—nay, saturated—with traditions
drawn from his culture in the classics, rose, and, nobly
indignant at the audacity of the inventor, rushed to
wards the man who represented Edison, and seized him
by the collar, crying, 'Wretch ! We are not to be made
dupes of by a ventriloquist !' This member of the Insti
tute was Monsieur Bouillard. The day was the nth
of March, 1878. The most curious thing about it was
that, six months later, on September 30th, before a
similar assembly, the same man considered himself
bound in honor to declare that, after a close examina
tion, he could find nothing in the invention but ven
triloquism, and that 'it was impossible to admit that
mere vile metal could perform the work of human
phonation.' The phonograph, according to his idea of
it,
was nothing but an acoustic illusion."
Murdoch, who invented the gas light, was ridiculed
by
a
Committee of the English Parliament, because he
was so "crazy" as to claim that
a
lamp could burn with
out
a
wick. Galvani was called the "frog's dancing
master," because of his experiments on frogs' legs,
stimulated
by
weak electric currents. Harvey was
ridiculed and professionally ostracized because of his
advocacy of the circulation of the blood.
It
is
a
matter
of history that no physician more than forty years of
age at the time of his discovery ever accepted it. The
inventor of the umbrella barely escaped from being
killed by an angry crowd because he was interfering
with "God's rain." Only by running through
a
shop
was he enabled to escape his pursuers. In 1890 doubts
Introduction xv
were still expressed as to the reality of thunder-bolts,
and the "Specter of the Brocken" was said not to ex
ist, because it could not be explained.
Lavoisier, one of the most learned men of his day,
wrote a report to the French Academy, asserting that
stones could not fall from the skies —it was contrary to
common sense to think so. Gassendi asserted the same
thing. In Provence, in 1627, an aerolite weighing thirty
kilograms had fallen. Gassendi saw
it,
touched
it,
ex
amined
it
—and attributed
it
to an explosion of the
earth in some unknown region.
The evidence afforded by fossils, evolution, and
a
thousand other things, had been opposed and ridiculed
in the same manner. Indeed,
it
would be possible to
fill many pages with illustrations of precisely the same
character. Animal Magnetism was utterly condemned
by the French Academy of Sciences and by the Faculty
of Medicine. Men waited before they would believe
in
it
(and even after
!)
to see the result of an operation
by Jules Cloquet, for cancer of
a
woman's breast, which
was performed without pain, after she had been pre
viously "magnetized." The early advocates of mes
merism and hypnotism were ridiculed and attacked on
all sides
in
a
most shameful manner.
It
was said that
the subjects of these painless operations were merely
"hardened rogues" who submitted to the ordeal for
pay. When Dr. Tanner fasted forty days, medical men
said he was
a
humbug, and few believed him. Now,
scores of like cases are on record, and have been
studied by nutrition experts. For years psychologists
opposed the theory of the subconscious mind, contend
ing that everything was the result of "unconscious cere
xvi Introduction
bration." And so it goes; the list could be continued
almost indefinitely.
And this same opposition exists today, in a greater
or lesser degree, to all forms of psychic phenomena !
We still see them ridiculed, misrepresented, maligned
by press and public. Very few psychologists today
would accept the reality of telepathy—to say nothing
of more startling manifestations ! Even many psychical
researchers will not accept the reality of "physical
phenomena." Only very gradually are these phenomena
gaining acceptance and becoming recognized by official
science. It is our duty to continue piling-up well authen
ticated cases of the type until their reality can no longer
be doubted. This, however, can only be brought about
by well-controlled, scientifically-conducted researches in
which no loop-hole for fraud or possible error can be
found. This is a fundamental requisite, if our subject
is to gain ultimate acceptance. The Societies for Psy
chical Research have made great headway in this di
rection; we should see to it that the work is carried
on in such a manner that the scientific world, press and
public will eventually be forced to acknowledge its
reality and authenticity. When that turning-point has
been reached, there can be no question that adequate
funds for the work will be forthcoming, and that rapid
progress will be made in all branches of this investiga
tion. Implications and interpretations will follow. Our
prime need, still, is well-observed, thoroughly authenti
cated facts.
PART I
Psychic Phenomena in Modern
Civilization
The Confessions of a Psychical Researcher
Every one, I suppose, has some hobby or special inter
est. My own interest happens to be psychical research
—and I believe that I am not generally considered a
"crank." Why, then, should I be interested in Psychics,
and such oddities as ghosts, astral bodies, ectoplasm,
clairvoyance, and possible spirit-communications? And
what's more, seriously interested? Well, I suppose it
is for the same reason that one man is interested in
politics, another in antiques and a third in astronomy.
It is a sort of innate thing, dependent partly upon
heredity and early environment, no doubt, but also
upon some instinctive desire, which psychologists have
not yet succeeded in fully analyzing. An incident which
I vividly remember may help to illustrate this.
When I first came from England to America, I was
about eight years of age. My mother, my sister and
myself were crossing on the North German Lloyd boat,
the Elbe, afterwards wrecked on the coast of Ireland,
if I am not mistaken. On the boat were three enor
mously fat men, who said that they had traveled back
and forth several times because they liked the food
served on it better than that in hotels ! From which the
reader may gather that they were not excessively
esthetic, and that they did not altogether despise the
material pleasures of this life. Nevertheless these men
had a keen interest in psychic phenomena. That famous
book, Phantasms of the Living, had just been published,
and I vividly remember them discussing it with my
3
.A. .... .
"'
..-. The Psychic World
- :' :
.'mother: the evidence for telepathy, the fact that a large
number of apparitions had been found to coincide with
the death of the person thus represented, and so on. I
sat there, open-mouthed, drinking in this conversation,
absorbing it. It left a vivid and never-to-be-forgotten
impression upon me. Yet I was only eight! Which
makes me feel that some innate mental predisposition
must have been present, as I have said, in order to ac
count for the curious interest thus aroused. For my
interest had not been at all in the "ghostly horrors"
discussed, but in the scientific marvel of it all.
When any fairly normal and intelligent man becomes
in any way publicly identified with spiritualism or
psychic investigation, the general public immediately
endeavors to discover why, in order to "explain" his
odd interest or belief. This man is getting old and
doddering, perhaps in his second childhood. That man
lost a son in the war, and of course was emotionally
biased, because of his desire to "communicate" with
him. Another was "always rather religious." And so it
goes. Doubtless, many of these criticisms have an ele
ment of truth in them. But it is by no means true that
the majority of scientific investigators are in any way
influenced by such factors. They are interested in
psychic investigation just as they would be in any other
scientific problem, and do not let their feelings run
away with them in the least. They do not desire to
prove —or to disprove —anything! They desire only to
ascertain the truth, to discover some new and hitherto
unsuspected facts.
It is a great mistake to assume that, just because
some man is interested in these investigations, there
fore he is unduly credulous, or overly anxious to "com
Confessions of a Psychical Researcher 5
municate" with some loved one who has died. Such may
be the case, but it is not necessarily so. Nor need one
be in any sense "religious," in the orthodox sense of
the word, in order to be interested in this field. One
may be a "Rationalist," and yet a sincere student of
psychic phenomena.
To take my own case, for example. Both my parents
were (I am inclined to think) Agnostics; at all events
I never heard any talk of religion at home, and received
no training in any orthodox sense. They had lived in
the Orient for many years, were strongly anti-mis
sionary on that account, and were, I am inclined to
think, more Buddhists than anything else; though of
this I am not sure. At all events, they always took the
stand that, just because I happened to be born in a
Christian country (so-called) I need not necessarily
be a "Christian" when I grew up; I might choose to
become a Mohammedan or a Confucian, or anything
else, for all they knew. The result was that I grew up
with practically no religion at all, and no instinct for
or belief in it. I had a perfectly open mind upon the
subject; more or less interested in all religions from
the purely historical or anthropological point-of-view,
but by nature and feeling a rationalist and an agnostic.
Nevertheless, as the result of my researches, I have
become quite convinced of the reality of some super-
physical or psychic world of some sort, and of the
actuality of supernormal (psychic) phenomena. But
this belief has been based solely upon evidence —upon
facts. What are these facts and how did I become in
terested ? Let me answer the second of these questions
first, since this has a rather curious history.
Early in life I became an amateur conjuror, interested
6 The Psychic World
in the history and technique of magic. I gave my first
"performance" when I was thirteen. The literature of
the subject I read with avidity. When I was eighteen, I
picked-up a few books dealing with what are tech
nically known as "pseudo-spiritualistic tricks"—imita
tions, by conjuring, of certain alleged mediumistic
marvels. This line of reading I followed up assidu
ously, and for many months thought that any one who
believed any of these alleged marvels was simply igno
rant of how they were done, and that I was particularly
"clever" and knew! (Many conjurers today take the
same attitude.) Then I happened to run across a book
entitled Essays in Psychical Research, by Miss X—
now out of print. The author wrote in an eminently
fair, sane, judicial style, it seemed to me; she was not
an out-and-out spiritualist; nevertheless, she had ex
perienced many of these strange happenings herself, in
her own person, and wrote of them impartially and
intelligently.
"Well," I thought, "if an apparently sensible woman
such as she asserts these things to be true, there may be
something in it after all ! I shall join the Society for
Psychical Research, read their publications, experiment
for myself, and see !" I accordingly did so. This was
in 1900. I have been a member, and actively engaged in
this research work ever since—for my reading soon
convinced me that many of these phenomena were un
doubtedly supernormal, and that the general character
and tone of the Society's publications were eminently
scientific and skeptical, as well as fair and open-minded.
And I think that any impartial student of their Reports
must agree with me.
This, then, was how I became interested in psychical
Confessions of a Psychical Researcher 7
investigation: not through the death of some loved
one; not through any desire to communicate; not be
cause of any religious belief, nor the "will to believe."
Nothing of the kind. I became interested through
magic. I am just as skeptical now as ever, when it comes
to any individual case. But my own personal investiga
tions have convinced me that many of these things do
occur. Therefore I consider their investigation impor
tant, and the subject unduly misrepresented and neg
lected. This, it seems to me, is a logical conclusion to
reach, in view of the general attitude toward these
questions.
But is not the public attitude perhaps justified? Is
there not much fraud, illusion, hysteria and error in
this field? Every other sphere of human activity has
been subjected to a rigid process of "debunking" of
late. Is not the public constantly being imposed upon
by fraudulent mediums and self-styled Teachers of
Truth?
Indeed it is ! The credulity, superstition and nonsense
which one encounters is simply amazing. Yet the fault
lies largely in the public, and not in the subject itself.
We encounter the same sort of credulity, stupidity and
sheepish belief in religion, politics, business —in every
walk of life. All this has nothing to do with the repu
table psychical investigators and their methods. One
must judge a subject by the best minds which it attracts,
and not by the worst. Unfortunately, this particular
subject attracts more silly people than any other, be
cause of the element of wonder in it; and the crowd
often follows because of mere curiosity. All of which is
fully realized by the leading men in this field; but if
the reader should care to spend a little time glancing
8 The Psychic World
through the publications of the Society, he would find
nowhere any mention of the numerous fortune-tellers,
clairvoyants and advertising mediums which are just
the ones which the amateur investigator would be apt
to encounter in his preliminary quest. We know as well
as any one else that nothing of value is to be found
here.
Good mediums are rare—probably much rarer than
great singers or painters or etchers, who are rare
enough. What our Society has always done has been to
concentrate upon two or three promising cases, more
or less to the exclusion of all others. Thus, Mrs. Piper,
of Boston, has been under constant observation and
subjected to test seances since 1885. In a lesser degree
the same is true of other cases. But nowhere will the
reader find mention of the hoi-polloi of mediums which
the average investigator is liable to encounter.
Have I in any degree succeeded in convincing the
reader that a psychical researcher may be a sane, sen
sible person, and yet vitally interested in this particular
subject? If so, I shall feel that I have accomplished
a great deal ! One need not be a credulous dupe merely
because he investigates certain odd facts, and analyzes
and subjects them to every conceivable test —instru
mental and otherwise —before accepting them. Further
more, facts and the interpretations of those facts are
two very different matters. Many psychic investigators
admit the reality of certain phenomena, admit that they
are supernormal, yet do not admit their spiritistic in
terpretation ; or they hold their judgment in abeyance.
Professor Richet belongs to this group. The same may
be said of many others. On the other hand, there are
psychic investigators who are spiritualists. It is largely
Confessions of a Psychical Researcher 9
a question of individual interpretation of certain facts.
But the facts themselves are invariably granted.
Spiritualism and psychical research, then, are two
very different things. The former is a religio-philosoph-
ical scheme, built upon certain alleged phenomena;
the latter is merely a scientific attempt to investigate
and interpret these phenomena —to expose them,
if fraudulent; to record and file away all doubt
ful cases, to study at length all apparently genuine
cases. And the methods employed in doing so have been
as accurate and careful and scientific as the newness and
difficulty of the investigation has rendered possible.
Let me emphasize this point: the most critical acumen
has been displayed in analyzing and sifting this ma
terial. Years ago, Professor William James wrote:
"Were I asked to point to a scientific journal where
hardheadedness and never-sleeping suspicion of sources
of error might be seen in their full bloom, I think I
should have to fall back on the Proceedings of the
Society for Psychical Research."
The first President, Professor Henry Sidgwick, was
described as "the most incorrigibly and exasperatingly
critical and skeptical mind in England."
More exposures of fraudulent mediums have been
made by members of the Society than by all the con
jurers combined. And when skeptics wish to quote au
thoritative exposes, they almost invariably have to fall
back on our publications, or upon books published by
psychical researchers themselves ! It is a curious situa
tion, and one very little realized by the public.
Nevertheless, we psychic investigators believe that
certain supernormal facts exist —both physical and
mental .
io The Psychic World
Have I myself seen any such manifestations, which
I consider genuine ? I certainly have, and I am as sure
that these things occur as I am that I write these pages.
But—let me make this very plain—genuine phenomena
are rare, and for every real case one encounters,
one is liable to encounter a hundred worthless im
itations. However, the mere fact that "old mas
ters" can at times be so skillfully imitated that no
one but an expert can detect the difference, does not
prove that there are no old masters. On the contrary
it proves, if it proves anything, that there are some
genuine old masters to imitate. So, here. There are
individuals in the world possessed of unusual and ex
traordinary powers, and, in our commercial age, they
often decide to capitalize them. Seeing which, clever
and shrewd knaves decide that they will do the same
thing, by trickery, and set up an establishment of their
own, in which they practice their arts, until exposed.
This is the sort of thing we encounter all the time, and
that is why investigation is so difficult and so annoying !
It is obvious that every Tom, Dick and Harry is not
competent to pass judgment upon these phenomena,
or the subject in general. An expert in psychic investi
gation is slowly and painfully evolved. We go to an
expert chemist for an opinion upon some technical
chemical problem; and the public should be educated
to believe that expert opinion is just as necessary in
this question as in any other. For, in our opinion, this is
a new branch of science, and a most difficult and baf
fling one, at thatl
II
Some Personal Psychic Experiences
It
is,
I
believe, highly probable that practically every
one—no matter how "normal" he may be —has had
a
certain number of odd psychic experiences
in
his life,
which would make an interesting collection,
if
he were
to take the time and trouble to record them. Heaven
knows, no one
is
naturally more "unpsychic" than my
self, and my friends are frequently upbraiding me for
my critical attitude toward mediums and psychic phe
nomena generally! When first
I
became interested
in
this subject,
I
spent hours upon hours trying to develop
automatic writing, crystal-gazing,
a
psychometric fac
ulty, trance, or anything that might come along, but
the results of these experiments were, generally speak
ing, nil.
It
is
true that
I
worked quite hard at Yoga
for some two years, during which time
I
lived entirely
upon fruits and nuts (uncooked), spoke to no one, and
lived completely alone. In this,
I
obtained some curi
ous and interesting results, mostly of
a
physiological
nature. While
I
did not actually attain the state known
as Cosmic Consciousness
I
approached
it
sufficiently
closely, on some occasions, to convince myself that
there
is
some real state of the kind, which various
writers have tried to express in words.*
It
was soon
after this that
I
experimented considerably with "astral
projection,"
in
which
I
seemingly attained some degree
•
See Cosmic Consciousness, by
J.
M. Bucke
;
Cosmic Consciousness,
by AH Nomad
;
Higher Psychical Development, by H. Carrington
;
also
a
number of Oriental works dealing with Tantra, Yoga, etc.
ii
12 The Psychic World
of success on at least one occasion. I have recorded this
in the Preface to our book The Projection of the Astral
Body, pp. 34-35, so that I shall not do more than refer
to it here.
Soon after this, however, I decided that I would no
longer try to develop psychic powers myself, and for
two reasons: first, because such scant results had hith
erto been forthcoming; but second (and mainly) be
cause I deemed it a wise policy not to do so. I said to
myself: "Here I am, a psychic investigator, carrying
on inquiries in a scientific field. Suppose I should de
velop a certain psychic faculty in myself? Suppose I
should then attend a seance, and bring in a report,
stating that such-and-such phenomena occurred. I might
lay myself open to a certain type of criticism, from
various individuals. They might say: 'Oh, well, Car-
rington has hallucinations ; his testimony is no good !'
"
So, in order to prevent this, I shut-off all further at
tempts at psychic development—this permitting me
to say: "I am as normal as you arel If you had been
there, you would have seen the same things I did, just
as I saw them."
Under the circumstances, I think it wiser that I took
this course —though it was only for the above reason,
and not because of any "fear" connected with the sub
ject. I have often thought that many people are ter
rible cowards, when it comes to this question of psychic
experimentation —an attitude with which I have but
little sympathy. On the other hand, I should be quite
ready to admit that a sound, well-balanced physical
and mental constitution is essential to any one taking
up this line of inquiry, and that the neurotic, the
Some Personal Psychic Experiences 13
psychotic and the weak-willed had best leave it severely
alone.
All this, however, is by way of introduction, and
merely to give the reader an idea of my mental back
ground and ordinary lack of psychic ability. Notwith
standing this, I have had quite a number of striking
spontaneous experiences —a few of which I propose
to give here very briefly, together with an account of
some "cases" which have come under my observation,
or which I have from time to time investigated.
The first case is one which made a deep impression
on me at the time, and which I have ever since remem
bered vividly. It was in connection with the death of a
friend of mine, whom I shall call Ida P. She was at the
time a woman in the prime of life, and so bubbling over
with health and animal spirits that one could never
associate her with death or illness. The last time we
had met was on the street, nearly a year before.
I was seated at my desk, writing, when I suddenly
had the impulse to call her up on the telephone. I did
so, and a woman's voice responded. I asked for Ida P.
The reply was, "Why, didn't you know? Mrs. P. passed
away yesterday !" I was so thunderstruck that I do not
remember what I said in reply, but hung up the
receiver.
Soon after this, the feeling of a presence (not her
presence particularly, but a presence) made itself very
manifest in the apartment. I could "sense" it now here,
now there, but most frequently in a particular spot,
a dark alcove, just inside the front door. It was so
"strong" here that I caught myself, on several occa
sions, momentarily hesitating before passing this spot !
On the afternoon of the second day, a neighbor of mine
14 The Psychic World
stepped just inside my front door to say a few words
(I had left it open, as the weather was extremely hot)
when he suddenly turned sharply, exclaiming, "Oh, I
thought some one was standing there!" (Naturally I
had said nothing to him about the experience.) Yet
the spot he turned to was that little dark alcove, where
I had so frequently sensed my "presence."
This lasted for nearly three days. During those three
days, I had "rappings" at irregular intervals all over
the place —on the walls, the floor and the furniture.
These were sometimes quite loud and utterly unlike
anything heard before or since. On the afternoon of the
third day, I was sitting at my desk, writing, when a
note on the piano in the next room was distinctly struck.
I immediately rushed into the next room, and picked
out the note on the piano with my finger. I was quite
alone at the time, and had no cat or other animal in
the apartment. I was busily engaged when this occurred.
From that moment nothing further was noticed—no
more "presence," no more rappings, nothing! What
appeared to be happening was that some invisible entity
had endeavored to attract my attention, and, when it
had finally succeeded in doing so, in an unmistakable
manner, had been "satisfied" and taken its departure!
At least, I gained the very strong impression at the
time that this was the case, and I have come no nearer
any other solution of the problem since then.
These "rappings" are very curious phenomena. They
are quite unlike any other raps or sounds which may be
noticed on other occasions, and totally unlike the
"creaks" often noted when a draught of cold air strikes
some door, for example, causing it to contract. I have
occasionally noted these raps just as I was falling
Some Personal Psychic Experiences 15
asleep ; a sharp rap would then resound, waking me up
suddenly. I observed a certain coincidental relationship
here. Just as I would "let go," preparatory to falling
asleep, a rap would occur. I found that I could in some
measure control the rap by "hanging-on" to myself, as
it were, and not relaxing completely for some little
time. Then, as soon as I thoroughly relaxed, bang
would go the rapl I was forced to the tentative con
clusion that there was a certain relationship between
the rap and the release of control over the bodily
energies. This
is,
I
think,
a
point well worth studying,
and bears
a
distinct analogy to the famous Karin case,*
concerning which
it
was said
:
".
. . the various attempts made by Karin to influence
the phenomena (rapping)
by
her will seem to show
that such influence, when
it
took place, never could be
exercised directly, but only by way of
a
subconscious
mental state that lay beyond the control of her will."
Mr. Wijk, the author of the article, suggested that
such influence might perhaps be exercised by means of
hypnotism. (Dr. Osty's later observations
in
this direc
tion are of great value here.)
One other instance of
a
very mysterious character
should perhaps be included. At the time
I
was living
in
a
studio apartment, on the fourth floor. A large
brass knocker was on the door,
a
sort of Sphinx head.
One morning
I
was awakened from
a
sound sleep
by
the knocker being rapped violently.
I
jumped out of
bed, put on
a
dressing gown, and was standing
by
the
front door, tying the rope about my waist, when
it
was knocked again, as insistently as before. Immedi-
• "Karin: A Study of Spontaneous Rappings," Annals
of
Psychic
Science, Sept., 1905.
1 6 The Psychic World
ately I opened the door. The hall was empty ! Not two
seconds had elapsed between the knock and the open
ing of the door. It is hardly necessary to say that I
was wide awake when the second knock was heard,
though the first one had awakened me from a sound
sleep. I explored the hall and the stairway; no one was
to be found. This happened only once, and I have
never been able to find a satisfactory "explanation"
for this extraordinary occurrence.*
Speaking of raps reminds me of another curious ex
perience I once had—though this time the phenomenon
was certainly subjective or interior, being inside my
own head. It was a peculiar "snap," which I distinctly
heard, just as I was awakening from sleep. In those
days I was always fully awake the moment I opened
my eyes. On this particular occasion, however, I felt
dazed and confused for some considerable time, and it
took me three or four minutes to regain normal con
sciousness. I could not help thinking of the "head-
snapping" so frequently reported by Mrs. Piper, when
emerging from trance, and I imagine the phenomenon
was very similar in the two cases—whatever it was. I
have however reported this case in full in the Journal
S.P.R., Jan., 1925, where similar experiences were
also reported by Miss H. A. Dallas and Miss Eleanor
B. Kelly.f
Before leaving this subject of quasi-physical phe
• It should perhaps be added that this happened on the third morn
ing of my Ida P. "haunting," and seemed somehow to be connected
with it.
t The author of that remarkable book The Maniac dwells upon
this phenomenon, and is inclined to believe that it is in some way
closely connected with insanity, and with the severance of the "astral"
from the physical body. The interest of several psychiatrists has lately
been aroused in this question.
Some Personal Psychic Experiences 17
nomena, I might mention a curious case, which I was
called upon to investigate,. some twenty-five years ago,
in which I succeeded in curing a poltergeist by means
of hypnotic suggestion.
A most circumstantial account had been furnished
by the mother, and, upon visiting the house, I found a
most peculiar child there, about fifteen years old, who
nevertheless appeared to be eleven or twelve—so
under-sized and almost abnormal was she. The disturb
ances centered about her, taking the form of articles
thrown around the house (even inkpots, with imagi
nable results!) and small "apports." It did not take
long to discover that the girl was responsible for the
mischief, and that she skillfully threw these objects at
a moment when no one was looking. Nothing was said
to her at the time, but that night, after the girl had
gone to sleep, her mother and I quietly entered her
room, and I took a chair beside her. I then "suggested"
to her that she could no longer throw things about,
that she would feel no desire to do so, that she would
feel a restraining influence, preventing her from doing
so, whenever she made the attempt, etc. This was
continued for some twenty minutes. The next day the
"phenomena" materially decreased, and the following
day ceased altogether. They have never, I believe,
recurred since. This is rather an interesting case, in
view of its possible implications.
We now come to a few dream cases of an unusual
nature. The first involves a sort of "cross-correspond
ence," inasmuch as three persons dreamed a very
similar dream the same night, and by a fortunate coin
cidence met and compared notes the following day. To
take my own dream first : I dreamed that I was walking
1 8 The Psychic World
along a country lane, a tall hedge on my right and a
curious, barn-like structure on my left. From this barn
projected a large, iron hook, and from the hook hung
a black baby, the hook passing through its clothes.
The baby was yelling and screaming—which was per
haps only natural ! As I looked, the clothes of the
baby gave way, and it fell to earth, being dashed to
pieces and killed instantly. The thing which struck me
particularly, in my dream, was the curious "plop" sound
of the impact, which I likened (in my dream) to a
paper bag filled with water, and dropped from some
considerable height. Although there was much blood,
this somehow did not seem to offend me —as it certainly
would have in life, under similar circumstances.
That same night Miss Elizabeth Smythe, connected
with the . . . Hospital, dreamed of a black baby falling
and being smashed to bits, and she awoke to hear her
own lips reciting a curious little verse, in which this
incident was described.
My friend Mr. Fred Keating also dreamed the same
night of two black bears, one of which fell from the
roof of the Woolworth Building —where they were
playing —and was killed on the sidewalk below. Both
Miss Smythe and Mr. Keating commented on the
peculiar "plop" sound made by the impact of the
bodies. We compared notes the following day at tea.
In connection with the next dream was associated a
remarkable coincidence —if coincidence it was. During
all the years that I had known Dr. Hyslop, I had never
once dreamed of him, to the best of my recollection,
except on this particular occasion. I then had a very
vivid dream, apparently lasting for some time, during
which we discussed the work of the S.P.R. I awoke,
Some Personal Psychic Experiences 19
the dream still fresh in my memory. Within three
seconds of my awakening, a clatter-clatter was heard
in the next room, as though some picture had fallen
from the wall. "Well," I thought to myself, "if that
is Hyslop's photograph, it will certainly be a remark
able thing !" I jumped out of bed and ran into the next
room. Sure enough, Dr. Hyslop's signed photograph
was lying on the floor, the string having broken ! Did
he inspire the dream, and subsequently produce the
"phenomenon"? Was it a mere coincidence? It must
be conceded as remarkable that the only dream I ever
had of him—and an exceptionally vivid one—should
have been thus associated with the fall of his picture,
which had been hanging on the wall for years. I made
a written note of the occurrence at the time, which I
still have.
The next case is a delightful example of the type
of "wit" perpetrated by the subconscious mind. It took
the form of an amazing series of pirns. I dreamed that
two white, phantom forms were standing, one on either
side of me. They were talking to one another, quite
regardless of my presence. One of them said:
"What nationality is Pola Negri?"
To which the other replied: "She is Pole and egg-ri."
The first held up his hand and said : "Enough !" (An
oeuf.)
*
Here is another curious case of dream-punning. I
dreamed one night that I was playing Bridge, and that
I played a card—a curious looking thing, covered with
green swirls and dragons' heads, differing from any
thing I had ever seen before in any illustration, so far
as I could remember. At the same moment that I
• Oeuf, of course, being the French for egg.
20 The Psychic World
played the card to the center of the table, I also bid ! I
said: "I bid one George." That is all the dream that I
remember.
The next day I puzzled my brains for a solution of
this seeming mystery. A partial explanation was forth
coming when I recalled the famous "Grypholife" story,
often told by my friend Sidney S. Lenz, in which he
describes a card (the Grypholife) bearing these same
curious green scrolls. [It had figured in a dream phan
tasy of his own.] So far, so good; the design on the
card might thus be accounted for. But why "one
George"? Looking through the New York Times, the
next day, my eye happened to light upon a large adver
tisement by "George the Tailor," and in big type the
words "New Suits and Overcoats." Looking back, I
found that the previous day's issue had also carried this
same advertisement. Here, then, we have the solution
of the mystery. The card I played evidently belonged
to some new suit; it was not one of the traditional four
—Spades, Hearts, Diamonds and Clubs. And this "new
suit" was sponsored by George the Tailor! When I
played and bid, therefore, I said "one George," there
by combining the elements of the advertisement, which
I had doubtless unconsciously noted, in looking through
the paper, the day before.
In the Journal A.S.P.R., August, 1908, I reported
an interesting case, in which abnormal and supernormal
phenomena seemed to go hand in hand—as they so
often do. It was that of a young lady who spontane
ously developed clairvoyance, during a period of con
valescence, but woke up one morning, feeling much
better, only to find that her clairvoyant faculty had com
pletely gone, never to return ! This is in some ways
Some Personal Psychic Experiences 21
analogous to the famous case of Molly Fancher. It
has also been stated that the mediumship of Eusapia
Palladino dated from an accident, in which she fell
against a cart wheel and cut her head open.
In any event, this interesting connection between the
abnormal and the supernormal must not be lost sight
of. The mistake of the psychiatrist lies in attempting
to explain the supernormal by reason of the abnormal
—which of course he can never do. One might readily
grant any amount of hysteria, dissociation, actual in
sanity, or whatever you like. The problem still remains:
How account for the actual supernormal knowl
edge displayed? No purely physiological explanations
can ever do that. The same objection applies to many
of those curious "obsession" cases, where the abnormal
mental state is very evident, and yet occasionally,
coupled with
it,
undoubted supernormal elements are
displayed.
I
have, during the past thirty years, observed
a
great many cases of this character—and
I
am happy
to say
I
seem to have been instrumental
in
helping sev
eral of them to recover
a
normal equilibrium again—
but such cases must be handled "just so," and the pos
sibly supernormal elements of the case kept constantly
in mind.
I
do not doubt that suggestion
is
an enor
mously important factor, even when the subject
is
cured by some "spiritualistic" means, but all this ma
terial dovetails
in
so complex
a
manner that
it
is
often
most difficult to disentangle
it
—just as
it
is
difficult to
designate the point where subconscious play-acting ends
and possibly genuine "communications" begin.
Speaking of the extraordinary powers of suggestion
reminds me of
a
most interesting case which
I
have
had
in
my possession for many years,
in
written form,
22 The Psychic World
but have never yet published. I do so now, copying
the original document as it lies before me. It runs as
follows :
"On the afternoon of May I, 191 6, I was standing
in my hall, preparing to go out, when I saw the knob
on my front door slowly turn. I stood still, awaiting
developments; gradually the door opened, and I saw
a man standing there. As he saw me, he quickly closed
the door, and ran down the stairs and out of the front
door. (He was in fact a burglar, trying to enter my
apartment.) The interesting thing about the experi
ence is this: that, during the moment he was standing
in the door, although he did not actually move, I had
the distinct impression that he had run up the hall,
and grasped me firmly by the arm, and I was for the
moment petrified with fear. The next day my arm was
black-and-blue, in the exact spot where I thought he
had pinched me; and this mark continued for several
days, until it finally wore off. I told Dr. Carrington
about this two days later, when he called, and showed
him the mark."
(Signed) LOUISE w. kops.
"I remember hearing the story as above narrated,
and Miss Kops showing me the black-and-blue marks
on her arm at the time."
(Signed) HEREWARD CARRINGTON.
The above
is,
doubtless,
a
sort of transition case
between the normal physiological effects of suggestion
and instances of real stigmata.
It
would be impossible for me to begin to enumerate
the scores of public and private mediums with whom
I
Some Personal Psychic Experiences 23
have obtained sittings. "The hours I spent with thee,
dear heart" are nothing to the hours I have spent
with amateur mediums claiming to produce extraordi
nary phenomena.
And such phenomenal Complete Levitations, which
turned out to be mere tippings of the table; remark
able Spirit Messages, which turned out to be the veriest
drivel; and so on. Well, I suppose that is part of the
penalty one pays for being a psychical researcher !
However, one is rewarded, from time to time, by
stumbling upon some really remarkable case, and then
all the fruitless labor of the past is forgotten, and one
becomes absorbed in observing these baffling phe
nomena, and in endeavoring to discover the laws and
causes underlying them, and instigating them. No study
could then become more thrilling. No astronomer in his
observatory, seemingly on the eve of some great dis
covery, could be more enthralled than the true psychic
investigator witnessing a series of phenomenal happen
ings, of the supernormality of which he has become
convinced. No biologist, performing some daring ex
periment, could seemingly touch life so intimately. No
religious enthusiast could come more closely in touch
with some spiritual world. It is that Great Possibility
which always lures us on. For, in the words of Frederic
Myers :
"That which lies at the root of each of us lies at the
root of the Cosmos too. Our struggle is the struggle
of the Universe itself; and the very Godhead finds
fulfillment through our upward-striving souls."
Ill
What Constitutes a Psychical Researcher
There is probably only one thing more difficult than
defining an ideal psychical researcher—and that
is,
being one! For whatever attitude one may assume,
it
is
sure to be wrong
in
the estimation of
a
large number
of persons interested
in
this subject. If he be some
what hyper-critical, he
is
attacked by those convinced
of the truth of spiritualism;
if
he be
a
virtual spiritual
ist, he
is
similarly attacked by those who desire to main
tain the ultra-scientific attitude hitherto maintained by
the S.P.R. —one which has,
it
is
true, been instrumental
in
influencing various eminent men of science, and even
forcing the newspapers and general public to pay some
respect to this subject. If, finally, he be on the fence,
holding his final judgment
in
suspense, and endeavor
ing to see both sides of any question with rigid impar
tiality, he
is
attacked from both sides—neither of
which
is
satisfied with his non-committal attitude. One
group regards him as too critical and negative; the
other as too credulous and positive. Even William
James, one of the sanest and most balanced minds who
ever lived, was subjected to criticism of precisely this
character.
Intellectual honesty
is,
I
believe, one of the most
difficult things
in
the world to maintain
in
this subject.
There
is,
in
the first place, always the tendency to be
swayed
by
the opinions of the majority, instead of
standing up for what one considers the truth, even
in
the minutest detail. This fear of opprobrium or un
24
What Constitutes a Psychical Researcher 25
popularity tends to sway the verdict or cloud the judg
ment. The fear of social ostracism is a most important
factor in the lives of many. The Almighty Dollar
proves itself to be powerful, here as elsewhere, and
many are influenced by the fear of possible loss, which
might result were their true convictions known. It is
undoubtedly true that there are many men in the coun
try today who are only prevented from publicly stating
their views because of this practical consideration. This
applies especially, perhaps, to men connected with our
Universities.
A true psychical researcher must determine, first of
all, to set all these considerations to one side. He must
remain impervious to the opinions and criticisms of
others; he must have the courage of his own convic
tions, no matter how unpopular these may be, and he
must be unswayed by any pecuniary interests. Above
all, he must be loyal to the truth, wherever that may
lead him,—no matter if this result in the exposure of
some fraudulent medium, or in the frank admission of
some incredible supernormal occurrence.
There have been investigators in this field, as we
know, who were undoubtedly hyper-critical in their at
titude. I mean by this, unreasonably so. They stressed
every negative argument and minimized every positive
account. They ignored much of the most striking and
evidential matter, in order to make out a case and write
a Report which would sound plausible and redound to
their own credit. There is perhaps a certain tendency
to do this with nearly all of us, under certain condi
tions. Thus, suppose a certain medium is being investi
gated : ninety-eight per cent of the phenomena are
unquestionably fraudulent. Two per cent remain inex
26 The Psychic World
plicable. There is always the tendency to throw-in the
two per cent, and make the Report one hundred per
cent negative ! This, in my opinion, is not honest. A
frank statement should be included in the Report re
garding this two per cent, together with the writer's
opinion as to why they were possibly valid. Any critical
remarks concerning this material may rightly be in
cluded in this section of the Report.
Take, on the other hand, the convinced spiritualist.
He is often indignant when any one dares to raise the
question of fraud, in connection with the phenomena
produced by his pet medium. He insists that the con
ditions imposed by the medium (no matter how pre
posterous these may be, obviously intended to facilitate
fraud) are perfectly right and justifiable. He roundly
accuses the investigator of unwarranted skepticism, of
blatant materialism, of wishing to expose every medium
who may come under his scrutiny. He is so intent upon
proving the continuity of life, and the reality of his
"spirits" that he has no patience with and no respect
for any one who may venture to question the conclusive
ness of his "messages" or the accuracy of his control.
He closes his mind to anything which might tend to
interfere with his set convictions. Worst of all, he even
refuses to listen to certain definite, negative evidence,
which may run counter to his preconceived opinions
and beliefs.
Both of these attitudes are, in my opinion, equally
fallacious, misleading, and intellectually dishonest. The
true researcher should not endeavor to prove or to
disprove anything; his sole aim should be to arrive
at the truth, whatever that may be. His duty is to
record facts, and draw logical deductions from those
What Constitutes a Psychical Researcher 27
facts. If the observed facts seem to indicate a positive
conclusion, this should be given fully and frankly. If
they point in the opposite direction, this should be
stated with the same impartiality. The will-to-believe or
the will-to-disbelieve should never be allowed to influ
ence the judgment in one way or the other.
Dr. Richard Hodgson expressed what I am en
deavoring to say very clearly when he wrote (Proceed
ings, IX, p. 366) :
"There is no royal road to sound opinions on such
matters generally; there is nothing for it save to ex
amine each narrative on its own merits, and with close
individual care; the mind meanwhile prepared for
either fate —whether to prick some bubble of preten
sion into empty falsity, or to discover beneath some
unpromising envelope a germ of inexplicable truth."
That is the attitude of the psychical researcher who
endeavors to occupy some middle ground and main
tain a rigid impartiality with regard to these phe
nomena. In my estimation it is the only correct attitude
—though it is undoubtedly the most difficult and un
comfortable one. There are two sides to this question,
and every competent and experienced researcher knows
there are genuine phenomena, and also that there are
spurious imitations. It becomes a question of sifting
the wheat from the chaff. This is often a most difficult
thing to do, and that is why, as I have often said,
psychical research is the most fascinating and the most
annoying topic in the world. Just when one feels that a
definite decision may be arrived at, some little incident
crops up which entirely upsets the apple-cart. And this
is true no less of positive than of negative conclusions.
Take, for example, the difficult question of spirit com
28 The Psychic World
munication. There are many, as we know, who accept
all communications of the kind as genuinely spirit
istic—messages through mediums of all sorts and de
scriptions, automatically written books, etc. In the
opinion of other spiritualists, this is far too inclusive
and positively erroneous. They would contend that,
while veridical messages are undoubtedly received at
times, they are relatively rare, and that the vast major
ity of messages received are obviously subconscious in
their origin. This is the attitude of the more intelligent
spiritualists, and is doubtless correct, so far as it goes,
inasmuch as many of these messages have been traced
to their source or origin, and shown to be such.
There are those again who, while freely granting the
supernormal character of much of this material, are
inclined to doubt the spiritistic source of any of it. A
number of prominent investigators were of this opinion
—men like Schrenck-Notzing, Morselli, Richet, Sudre,
Flournoy—and, though constantly quoted by spiritual
ists, yet wrote strongly against it ! They doubtless real
ized the enormous psychological difficulties involved,
and also the problems presented by such cases as that
of Gordon Davis (Proc. 35, pp. 560-90) and that of
Mme. Dupont (Spiritism and Psychology, pp. 72-82),
where long and most circumstantial communications
were received from the soi-disant communicators —who
subsequently turned up alive and well !
In these instances, the source of the information was
certainly not spiritistic; yet the general tenor and ap
pearance of the communications were precisely similar
to many of those which are said to be so. No definite
conclusions can be drawn from such cases beyond the
one which I desire to stress, viz., that they enormously
What Constitutes a Psychical Researcher 29
complicate the problem. They justify a certain reserve
of judgment with regard to this question, and permit
the cautious researcher, who is in possession of these
facts, to avoid any rash jumping to conclusions.
In all psychical investigation, we should, I think, be
governed by two general propositions. These are :
1. All is possible.
2. The strength of the evidence should be propor
tioned to the strangeness of the facts.
The first of these indicates a certain open-minded-
ness : the willingness to grant the theoretical possibility
of any fact, no matter how bizarre it may appear, and
to accept it upon sufficient evidence.
The second deals with the sufficiency of that evidence.
The more unusual and seemingly impossible the al
leged phenomena, the stronger the evidence should be,
before accepting it. This is perfectly logical, and as it
should be. If a certain alleged fact departs only a little
from the generally accepted facts of science, the mind
can more readily assimilate
it,
and
it
appears to us
a
priori more credible. If, on the other hand,
it
totally
violates (seemingly) some of the very fundamentals
of modern science, the evidence for the actual occur
rence should be proportionately strong,
in
order to
overcome our natural mental resistance to it.
As an example of this latter type,
I
might cite
lycanthropy, that
is,
the alleged ability of certain men
to transform themselves into wolves, hyenas, or other
animals. Any one who may care to look up the existing
evidence for this will find an extraordinary mass of
case-records
in
its support
;
yet no one,
I
imagine, seri
ously believes
in
it
today. Why? Because of its seeming
impossibility. The first-hand, circumstantial evidence
30 The Psychic World
is not sufficiently strong to warrant our belief.
Similarly, many psychic phenomena appear relatively
incredible to different minds: telekinesis and material
ization to the physicist and the biologist; clairvoyance
and spirit communication to the psychologist. The first
set of alleged facts run counter to the experience of the
former, and the second set of facts run counter to the
philosophy and experience of the latter. Hence their
mental resistance or opposition to them. This is quite
intelligible, and is a constituent part of our human
nature.
And why should the spiritistic theory prove so diffi
cult of acceptance by the psychologist? The religiously
or mystically-minded man finds little difficulty in ac
cepting it. To him it appears quite reasonable and
rational, and only what we should expect. To the ordi
nary physician or psychologist it is a fact "most
strange." Why? Because he realizes that so much of
our mental life is indubitably bound-up with the func-
tionings of the brain. Not only are there certain definite
areas wherein sensory impressions are received, and
motor impulses given forth, but whole sections of our
memory (so to say) seem to be stored in certain definite
areas of the brain structure—the memory of names, of
written words, of musical notes, of spoken words, etc.
—so that an injury of that localized area will destroy
the memories connected with it.
For example, a man can no longer read and under
stand musical notes, while he can still read the printed
word perfectly. Now, inasmuch as our personality de
pends largely upon memory (there is an old saying:
"no memory, no personality") and inasmuch as
memory seems to be so intimately bound-up with the
What Constitutes a Psychical Researcher 31
activities of the physical brain, it is almost unthinkable
to the psychologist that the human personality can ex
ist and remain intact in the absence of a physical brain
altogether. It is considerations such as these which
have caused men such as Richet, Sudre, Schrenck-
Notzing, etc., to reject the spiritistic hypothesis, while
accepting the supernormality of the facts.
It must be admitted, of course, that this argument
is purely a priori, and if the facts prove survival, it must
be accepted, and physiological theories adjusted ac
cordingly. I merely state the case here in order to show
why it is not possible for the psychologist to accept the
idea of survival easily, and why he is so insistent upon
absolute demonstration before conceding it to be a
proved fact. His natural mental resistance to the idea
is very great, and can only be overcome by an over
whelming mass of facts for which there seems to be no
other reasonable explanation.
Every fair-minded student of this subject must ad
mit that there is a great deal of very respectable evi
dence in favor of survival. Evidence, however, is not
the same thing as proof, and the average scientific man
wants proof before accepting it. This, as we know, is
difficult to obtain, and the number of clean-cut cases
is relatively rare. On the other hand, there is a great
mass of seemingly spiritistic material which is certainly
not due to that source (spiritoid, as Boirac calls it)
which fact has been emphasized over and over again
by Hyslop, James, Lodge, and every investigator of
note. In view of these facts, it obviously behooves us
to exercise due caution, when dealing with this material,
and not to "swallow everything" offered us in the name
of spiritualism.
32 The Psychic World
I trust that the reader will understand that I am not
attacking the validity of the spiritistic theory, in any
thing that I have said. There is much to be said in
favor of
it,
and many eminent and fair-minded men
have declared themselves spiritualists, after carefully
weighing the pros and cons of the subject.
I
think there
is
a growing mass of evidence
in
its favor, and
a
gradual tendency to accept
it
as the correct explana
tion.
I
myself have written strongly
in
favor of the
theory of spiritualism,
in
reply to certain critics of our
evidence.
It
is
a
perfectly justifiable working hypothesis.
I
am only contending that the attitude of balanced,
suspended judgment is perfectly logical, and
is,
in
my
estimation, the correct attitude for the average psychi
cal researcher to take in the present state of our
knowledge.
I
am inclined to think that our general mental atti
tude toward this question
is
largely determined
by
our
early religious training. If the mind has been imbued,
from early childhood, with the reality of
a
spiritual
world,
a
certain set predisposition toward that belief
is
almost inevitable. If, on the other hand, the child
is
brought up with little or no orthodox training, this
attitude
is
frequently lacking. The "craving for im
mortality," which so many feel keenly,
is
not experi
enced
in
these cases. This "craving"
is,
I
am convinced,
often the deciding factor,
in
making our decisions in
these matters. Given the same set of facts, they will
prove conclusive to one mind and not to another. The
psychological background or setting
is
responsible for
the final choice. There
is
rarely any certitude
in
mat
ters psychic. There
is
always
a
balance
of
probability
:
whether this interpretation or that one be the more
What Constitutes a Psychical Researcher 33
reasonable, in view of the recorded testimony. As Wil
liam James said:
"We all live on an inclined plane of credulity. The
plane tips one way in one man, another way in another;
and may he whose plane tips in no way be the first to
cast a stone!"
It may be next to impossible to find any one possessed
of this perfectly balanced mind: but the point I wish
to emphasize is that this was held up as an ideal to be
attained by no less an authority than William James,
and certainly no man can be censured for trying to at
tain it. On the contrary it is,
I
believe, the very essence
of
a
psychical researcher to achieve this end—allow
ing himself to be swayed
by
no emotions, and holding
his mind perfectly open to the reception of new truths.
In my Story
of
Psychic Science
I
endeavored to sum
marize what
I
considered were the chief essentials of
a
competent psychical researcher.
I
then said:
" A specialized training
is
necessary for this
work; our ideal investigator must have
a
thorough
knowledge of the literature of the subject; he must
have
a
good grounding
in
normal and abnormal psy
chology; in physics, chemistry, biology, photography,
and some laboratory experience; he must be
a
keen
observer,
a
good judge of human nature and its mo
tives; he must be well trained
in
magic and sleight-of-
hand; he must be shrewd, quick of thought and action,
ever on the alert, patient, resourceful, open-minded,
tolerant, rapid
in
his observations and deductions, sym
pathetic, and have
a
sense of humor
!
He must be free
from superstition, and at the same time unswayed by
bigotry, theological or scientific. In short, our ideal
34 The Psychic World
investigator is hard to find, and it is probable that such
a man is born rather than made. . . ."
I can see no reason to change the views therein ex
pressed. This attitude of open-mindedness, of sus
pended judgment, seems to me to be the soundest and
the best—not only because of the fact that one's own
decisions are probably more accurate on that account,
but also because the general public has, as a rule, more
confidence in such a man and his leadership. It must
always be remembered that each individual case stands
on its own merits, and that because a certain set of
phenomena, occurring through the instrumentality of
one medium, may be accepted as genuine, that by no
means proves that the same phenomena produced
through the instrumentality of another are genuine
also. That is far from being the easel It is also true,
on the other hand, that negative results may be ob
tained time after time, and that positive results may
ultimately be forthcoming, in the presence of another
medium. This has been my own experience, and has
doubtless been the experience of many other research
ers also.
Thus, before attending my first seance with Eusapia
Palladino, I had sat with dozens of "physical medi
ums," every one of whom had turned out to be fraudu
lent. Yet I became thoroughly convinced of the
genuineness of her phenomena, and so stated. The
result was that my "conversion" carried due weight —
Professor Flournoy being kind enough to say, when
reviewing my book Eusapia Palladino: and her Phe
nomena:
What Constitutes a Psychical Researcher 35
". . . It is hardly necessary to add that this dif
ference of theoretical interpretation between Mr.
Carrington and myself does not in the least diminish
the value which I attach to his researches; and that,
in particular, I hold his report on Eusapia to be the
most valuable contribution to the subject in the whole
history of the supernormal, and the one which pleads
the most powerfully in favor of the authenticity of
the Palladino phenomena. . . ."
I cite this for no personal reason, but merely to
justify an attitude—the attitude, namely, of the man
who decides to hold his final judgment in suspense,
with regard to the ultimate interpretation of these
baffling phenomena. The man who is always "on the
fence"
is,
I
am fully aware,
a
source of constant an
noyance to his fellow workers —who are always urging
him to get off the fence on one side or the other!
[As
a
matter of fact "the other" (complete negation)
does not enter into their calculations at all. What they
really want him to do
is
to come out flat-footed in
favor of spiritualism.] But—as
I
have tried to show
—there are many reasons why certain individuals can
not bring themselves to do so. They may ultimately
arrive at this conclusion, and
a
number of them have,
but there are many who prefer still to hold their final
verdict
in
suspense, while continuing their accumula
tion and study of facts. And this
is,
it
seems to me, an
attitude which cannot reasonably be criticized.
Much that
I
am saying here has been said
in
other
and doubtless better words by F. W. H. Myers,
in
his
paper on "Resolute Credulity"
in
the S.P.R. Proceed
ings. And, as Dr. Hyslop has reminded us: "Faith no
36 The Psychic World
longer charms with her Magic Wand, except among
those who do not accept or appreciate scientific method,
but whose flimsy standards afford no criteria for de
fense against illusion and deception." Dr. Hodgson
maintained his critical attitude to the day of his death,
when called upon to investigate any new medium. Emo
tional cravings should not be allowed to sway the
judgment, nor should any particular philosophy of the
Universe which one may care to hold. Psychical Re
search consists, or should consist, of much more than
evidence for survival —though this
is,
naturally, the
central and most absorbing topic to the majority of
investigators.
The scoffer and the critic are, on the other hand, far
more easily disposed of. They have on their side as
a
rule no evidence, no facts and usually no logic
!
They
know nothing about the subject and are merely igno
rant. Such critics often make themselves ridiculous,
without
in
any way affecting the evidence or influencing
those who happen to know what they are talking about.
Serious criticism
is
always valuable, but this has rarely
been attempted: the majority of such criticisms have
merely served to display the bias and prejudice of the
critics themselves. All of which reminds me of Dr.
Hodgson's old saying that "if we could only get the
scientific men to attack us, our case would be won
!"
What
is
needed above all else
is
helpful criticism, pa
tient investigation, and the constant accumulation of
new facts.
IV
The Psychology of Genius
CONTENTS
What is Genius?
Is Genius Originality?
Is Genius Concentration?
Is Genius Patience?
Is Genius Common Sense?
Is Genius Constructiveness ?
Is Genius Anticipation?
Is Genius Breadth?
Is Genius Merely Hard Work?
Is Genius Character?
Genius and Insanity.
Classical vs. Romantic Geniuses.
Genius and Talent.
Precocity and Genius.
Age and Genius.
Musical and Arithmetical Prod
igies.
Environment, and Other Factors.
Racial Experiences and Memories.
Physiology and Genius.
Genius and Talent: (continued).
Myers's Theory of Genius.
Genius and the Supernormal.
Intuition and Inspiration.
The Source of the Information.
Conclusion.
What is Genius f
Genius may roughly be defined as original, brilliant
and creative work of some sort, and the man of genius
as one who has the faculty or ability to produce results
of this character. But it will be realized at once that
this definition is superficial and tentative, and that it
does not attempt in any way to define the nature of the
product, far less the modus operandi of its production.
Yet, from the psychological point-of-view, that is the
interesting problem which confronts us ! How account
for such extraordinary powers? Whence do they
originate? What happens inside a man when he is in
the throes of some creative effort? Is the man of genius
a normal individual? Is there any traceable connection
between the inspirations of genius and other super
normal powers? These are a few of the questions which
at once come to mind as soon as we begin to discuss this
37
38 The Psychic World
question, and seek to discover its inner nature. In view
of the scarcity of material available, and the scant
references to it in the literature of borderland psy
chology, an analysis of this problem can hardly fail
to be of interest.*
In the first place, then, what do we mean by genius?
Is this word to be used as synonymous with talent?
With intellectual brilliance? With original, creative
work? With musical or artistic or scientific ability?
With inventiveness? With originality? Are the various
musical and arithmetical prodigies to be counted as
geniuses? Are all geniuses necessarily erratic, defective
or mad? Or are they superior individuals? Is genius
merely hard work? Each of these questions must be
considered in turn before we can hope to come to any
clear understanding of the problems involved.
The first serious attack upon this vital problem was
made by Sir Francis Galton, in his book Hereditary
Genius. His inquiry was however largely statistical, and
constituted an attempt to show that genius probably
was hereditary, inasmuch as a brilliant man frequently
had a brilliant father, or various members of a family
showed marked ability, if one of them did. The number
of families that had served as the basis of the work was
about 300, and included nearly 1,000 men of note, of
whom 415 were illustrious. Taking judges, statesmen,
generals, men of letters, scientific men, poets, artists
and divines, as the basis for his calculations, Galton
concluded that "the probability that a man of mark
would have remarkable kinsmen
is,
on the average, for
•
For example, the word "genius" does not even appear in the Index
of McDougall's Outline
of
Abnormal Psychology; only the most fleet
ing references are made to the subject in William James' Principles
of
Psychology, etc
The Psychology of Genius 39
his father thirty-one per cent; brothers, forty-one per
cent; sons, forty-eight per cent; grandfather, seventeen
per cent ; uncle, eighteen per cent ; nephew, twenty-two
per cent; grandson, fourteen per cent;" etc.
Galton's figures have been considered problematical
for various reasons, though they do seem to indicate,
in general, that genius of a sort may often be heredi
tary, just as other psychological factors are.* Galton
apparently made genius more or less equivalent to in
tellectual brilliance, or outstanding artistic merit, but,
as we shall presently see, this conception is far too
limited in its scope, and not nearly comprehensive
enough to include all types and varieties of genius. We
shall return to this question, and also that of the pos
sibility of hereditary genius, however, later on.
Let us now, first of all, examine a few of the various
tentative definitions of genius which have been given
in the past, in order to discover, if possible, in what
genius consists, and what it is and is not. We shall re
serve our general discussion of the question until later.
These definitions, and a brief discussion of them, each
in turn, will at least serve to clear the air and perhaps
enable us to arrive at some sort of understanding of
the nature, functions and peculiarities of genius.
Is Genius Originality?
Undoubtedly a genius, in order to be such, must be
original. Royse says: "We can not conceive of genius
except as something extraordinary, and of this quality
originality is the very essence." Doctor Johnson, in his
essay on Milton, says that "the highest praise of genius
is original invention." Emerson says: "Every great
• Cf. Ribot, Heredity, A Psychological Study, etc
40 The Psychic World
man is unique. . . . The highest merit we ascribe to
Moses, Plato and Milton is that they set at naught
books and traditions, and spoke not what men, but
what they thought." George Eliot declares: "Genius
itself is not en regie; it comes into the world to make
new rules." Hazlitt, in his Table Talk, says : "Genius,
or originality, is for the most part some strong origi
nality of the mind, answering to and bringing out some
new and striking quality in Nature. . . . Originality con
sists in seeing Nature differently from others, and yet
as it is in itself." Lowell asserts that "to make the
common marvelous, as it were a revelation, is the test
of genius." Bain contends that "the principle of like
recalling like, through the disguises of diversity, this I
count the leading fact of genius." William James, in
his Principles of Psychology states that "the most ele
mentary single difference between the human mind and
that of brutes lies in this deficiency on the brute's part
to associate ideas by similarity . Genius is identical
with the possession of similar associations to an ex
treme degree" (n, p. 360). Such opinions and quota
tions could be multiplied almost indefinitely.
It is undoubtedly true that where there is no origi
nality there is no genius; hence originality is an essential,
constituent factor. But does this serve in any way to
explain the genius? Or does it not rather define its
quality —one of its qualities? We are assuredly no
nearer a solution of the main problem : what constitutes
genius —why and how the original ideas come into the
man's head, where they come from, and why he should
see similarities and associations which another man
does not see. Certainly this does not consist in mere
intellectual clarity or in profound learning. Many men
The Psychology of Genius 41
have exceptionally clear and logical minds who are not
in the least original, and there are many men of great
erudition who do not show the slightest indications of
true genius. Nor does the sparkling, versatile mind, as a
rule, make any real mark in the world; it is usually a
pseudo-genius rather than a true one. Invention shows
originality; but this is often only on one line, and the
man is otherwise anything but a genius; he is more
likely to be a mere crank. Franklin was a real dis
coverer when he drew lightning from the clouds; so
was Edison when he invented the electric light bulb ; yet
the great scientifico-philosophical geniuses (Darwin,
Laplace, Kant) must surely rank as the greater.
Artistic, musical and literary geniuses each shine in
their own sphere. Finally, such definitions of genius as
those given above do not in the least explain or help us
to understand why such men as those already men
tioned possess the originality they do, or why they are
enabled to perceive differences and make associations
other men do not. In short, all they do is to point out
and emphasize one essential element of genius, with
out in the least making plain to us the underlying
psychological factors involved, or what happens in
the mind of the genius when his original ideas are cre
ated or brought into being.
Is Genius Concentration?
Goethe, Johnson, and others, defined genius as con
centration, but it is very evident that thousands of in
dividuals concentrate, none of whom are geniuses ! It
is probably true that genius of a certain type (as we
shall see) is brought into action by means of con
centration, but there are geniuses of another type who
42 The Psychic World
do not have to concentrate in the least, and their best
work is produced when their minds are more or less
blank and seemingly inactive. Some artistic and musical
geniuses are of this type, and the same is true of arith
metical prodigies, etc. It cannot be said, therefore, that
concentration is essential to genius, though may gen
iuses have possessed unusual powers of concentration.
Is Genius Patience?
Buffon gives us this definition, but in many ways it
is precisely the opposite of the truth. The slow plodder
is,
as
a
rule, just what he appears to be, and
is
such be
cause of his lack of the true spark. Hard work may
prepare the soil of the mind, so to say, and cultivate
it,
so that genius may sprout
in
it,
if
the germs are really
there. But
it
is
a
palpable truth that there are tens of
thousands of hard workers for every true genius, and,
as we shall presently see, genius
is
not the result of
work but rather the cause of it. This definition, there
fore, places the cart before the horse, to a
certain ex
tent, and
is
in
no sense
a
true definition of genius.
Is Genius Common Sense?
To ask this question
is
to answer it. Genius consists
essentially
in
WMCommon sense,
in
originality,
in
the
ability to think differently from other people. This
is
precisely what genius
is
not.
Is Genius Constructiveness?
Emerson says
:
"Genius
is
intellect constructive"
;
and
Matthew Arnold and Taine seem to agree with him.
But,
in
order for the mind to construct anything,
it
must first of all have
a
vision of the thing to be con
The Psychology of Genius 43
structed. Every engineer must possess this faculty to
some degree: but every engineer is not a genius ! It
represents, rather, a special talent which has been
trained; and as we shall see more fully later on talent is
not at all the same thing as genius. Also, there are
many types of genius which are not at all constructive,
in the ordinary acceptation of that word, and are even
altogether unconscious of how their results are ob
tained. It cannot be said, therefore, that this is in any
sense a true definition of the essential constituent of
genius. .
Is Genius Anticipation?
Longfellow, in his "Hyperion," says: "It has be
come a common saying that men of genius are always
in advance of their age; which is true. There is some
thing equally true, yet not so common; namely, that,
of these men of genius, the best and bravest are in ad
vance not only of their own age, but of every age. . . ."
Macaulay says much the same thing, and so do Richter
and Alison.
What has been said above, with regard to originality,
applies here also to a great extent. In order for the pos
sible future to be in any way envisioned, there must be
originality and fertility of imagination. Every man pos
sesses this to some degree. But the vast majority of our
prophets fall hopelessly by the wayside, and the degree
of originality they possess is soon found to be far
from surprising. The true genius anticipates because he
is a genius, but anticipation does not make him such.
In short, the cart has again been placed before the
horse, here as elsewhere.
44 The Psychic World
Is Genius Breadth f
Grant Allen, in one of his Essays, has this to say :
"The peculiarity of a genius is that he possesses in
some one department a few more elements of mind than
most other people, his contemporaries; that he com
bines in himself a certain large number of mind-factors,
all, or nearly all, of which are to be severally found in
other people, but which are not to be found in any
other one person in the same combination."
Much this same thought may be found expressed in
the writings of Carlyle, Emerson, Lowell, DeQuincey,
and others.
This vast, almost cosmic, sweep of the mind is to be
found in many geniuses, such as philosophers, great
generals, etc. If it is not "shallow breadth," it un
doubtedly constitutes a variety of genius. Such minds
cannot be bothered with details, with minutiae. But just
because of that fact the majority of men of this stamp
fail to become geniuses: they cannot gather and pa
tiently assemble vast quantities of facts, as Darwin did.
Many of them are, therefore, their own worst enemies,
and the peculiar constitution of their minds prevents
them from becoming geniuses. True, the majority of
geniuses probably possess great breadth of mind, but
breadth of mind does not in itself constitute genius.
The "divine spark" is not present, and it is that which
constitutes the very essence of the state we are con
sidering.
Is Genius Merely Hard Work?
There are many, as we know, who hold this view,
but we have very largely answered it in what has been
The Psychology of Genius 45
said before. Hard work per se will rarely develop the
genius, though it may prepare the soil in which genius
may sprout—especially genius of a scientific character.
But there are many other varieties of genius of which
this is not at all true, and any definition of genius which
we may be tempted to give must be more or less in
clusive of all types. The spark of genius may cause a
man to work hard, but hard work is more likely to de
velop a (more or less) latent talent, rather than de
velop true genius. The God-given fire is lacking, and it
is that which constitutes the true essence of the genius,
as we are attempting to define it.
Is Genius Character?
John Burroughs was of the opinion that the former
depended to a large extent upon the latter, but this is
directly contradicted by Lowell who, in his essay on
Rousseau, stated that "genius is not a question of char
acter." And it may be said that the whole experience
of mankind is against this view; for many men of ir
reproachable character have been anything but gen
iuses, while, on the other hand, some of the greatest
geniuses the world has ever known have been men
whose character was deplorable. It cannot seriously be
contended that there is any essential connection be
tween the two.
Having now cleared the ground of much of the rub
bish and under-brush growing about this subject, and
having shown that the various definitions of genius
which have been attempted in the past do not really
define genius in any true sense, we may now pass on to
46 The Psychic World
a more general theoretical discussion of our problem,
considering various aspects of it in turn, and see what
light, if any, may be thrown upon
it,
before advancing
any explanatory hypotheses or attempting to draw any
conclusions or similes. Let us begin with
a
brief discus
sion of that moot question—the possible connection or
inter-relationship between
Genius and Insanity.
This aspect of the problem was brought prominently
to the fore by Max Nordau (Genius and Degenera
tion), Lombroso (The Man
of
Genius), F. Nisbet
(Insanity and Genius), and many others. Nordau and
Nisbet attempted to show that the "eccentricities of
genius" were often so glaring that they bordered upon
true insanity, while Lombroso endeavored to prove
that certain definite "stigmata" were invariably pres
ent, just as they were claimed to be present
in
the cases
of criminals —
a
theory now almost entirely abandoned.
The idea that there
is
some connection between the two
dates back from the veriest antiquity. Both Plato and
Aristotle drew attention to the fact, as did Pascal,
Diderot and Lamartine. Perhaps the oft-quoted lines
of Dryden sum-up this point-of-view with precision
:
"Great wits are sure to madness near allied,
And thin partitions do their bounds divide."
One of the best summaries of this theory
is
doubt
less that of Dr. James Sully, who endeavored to prove
the point by
a
collection and analysis of numerous
in
cidents
in
the lives of well-known men. Thus
:
we find
instances of extreme abstraction, amounting almost to
absence of mind—Archimedes, so absorbed
in
a
prob
The Psychology of Genius 47
lern as not to be aware of the approach of his Roman
slayer; Newton, judging from the plate that a prankish
friend had emptied that he had really eaten his dinner;
Beethoven standing in his night-clothes before an open
window, etc. The persistence of vivid ideas has also
been noted in men of genius : Peter the Great afraid to
cross a bridge; Johnson's repugnance to certain alleys
in London ; Pascal's fear of a gulf yawning in front of
him; Marshal Saxe terrified at the sight of a cat; Schil
ler keeping a row of rotten apples in his study as a
necessity of living and working, etc. Hallucinations
were experienced by Luther, Malebranche, Descartes,
Goethe, Pope, Byron, Napoleon, Shelley and many
others. Extraordinary violence of temper was common,
while melancholy and hypochondria were frequently
noted in men of this type. In a number of cases, this
terminated in clearly developed mental disease. Whim
sical and erratic ideas were frequently noted, while in
consistencies and contradictions were observed in many
instances. Dr. Sully thus sums-up his argument:
"Our conclusion is that the possession of genius car
ries with it special liabilities to the disintegrating forces
which environ us all. It involves a state of delicate
equipoise, of unstable equilibrium, in the psycho-phys
ical organization. Paradoxical as it may seem, one may
venture to affirm that great original power of mind is
incompatible with nice adjustment to surroundings, and
so with perfect well-being.* The genius is a scout who
rides out well in advance of the intellectual army, and
who by this very advance and isolation from the main
• Psycho-analysis has, of course, thrown considerable light upon this
question, of late years.
48 The Psychic World
body is exposed to special perils. Thus genius ... is a
mode of variation of human nature which, though un
favorable to the conservation of the individual, aids in
the evolution of the species. . . ."
It is doubtful, however, if most of these charges
against men of genius can seriously be maintained.
How many tens of thousands of cases of violence of
temper, irrationality, hallucinations, temptation to
commit suicide, hypochondria, irritability, etc., might
not be cited in cases of men who were not at all gen
iuses? These are semi-morbid traits which occur in all
walks of life, and the mere fact that a few men of
genius similarly displayed these traits does not in the
least prove that they were the cause of the genius, or
even necessary concomitants of it. Rather, the man was
a genius in spite of these handicaps of temperament!
The mere fact that the man was a genius made him a
marked character—one subject to public criticism and
analysis. And the mere fact that one or more of these
peculiarities was found in him by no means proves that
they were, of necessity, connected with his original,
creative powers. Many geniuses appeared to be emi
nently sane; while many, possessing not a spark of
genius, exhibited them in a striking degree. The only
charge which might perhaps "hold water" would be
that of occasional fits of abstraction; but these were
surely due to extraordinary concentration upon the
problem in mind, and represent a supernormal, rather
than a sub-normal, mental functioning.
It is obvious, therefore, that no logical connection
exists between genius and insanity, as commonly under
stood ; however, we shall return to this question again
The Psychology of Genius 49
in due course, after having made a more systematic
psychological analysis of the whole problem. This we
shall now accordingly attempt; and I shall begin by
calling attention to a very illuminating distinction be
tween the various types or kinds of genius —first advo
cated, if I am not mistaken, by Prof. Ostwald, the
famous physicist, of Germany, noted for his theory of
"energetics."
Classical vs. Romantic Geniuses
There are those, as we know, who contend that gen
ius consists mostly in hard work, while there are others
who contend that work has little to do with
it,
but that
the flashes or inspirations of true genius come quite un
sought. Well, says Professor Ostwald, there
is
a
cer
tain amount of truth
in
both these theories. But they
apply to different types of genius. There are
in
reality
two distinct types, and not one. We have what might
be called the "classical" type of genius, and we have the
"romantic" type. Most of the well-known geniuses are
of the classical type. They were masters of their genius,
while,
in
the romantic type, their genius
is
master of
them. The classical genius
is
centralized, and has pur
pose; he
is
intent upon producing, rather than upon
recognition. He
is
not so flighty and passionate. He
adopts the Greek motto
:
"Nothing
in
excess."
*
The
classical geniuses, as
a
rule, live apart from people and
work hard.
The romantic geniuses, on the other hand, are more
"fluid"
in
type —as against the more "solid" type of
the classical geniuses. They get their ideas with less
'Robert Louis Stevenson said that Art consists largely in "knowing
what to leave out."
50 The Psychic World
effort. They live in the fire of enthusiasm, while the
classical genius does not get so fired or excited. The
romantic genius is more intuitional. As a rule, the
classical genius produces his work relatively late in life
(40 to 50), and the romantic genius early in life. The
romantic genius is the suffering type —melancholy, ex
citable, erratic, etc.
The romantic genius works in fits and starts, while
the classical genius works more continuously. Hence,
it is only of the classical genius type that it may be said
that "genius is nine-tenths hard work." Work is not the
cause of genius, but the result. So, the "capacity for
taking infinite pains" is due to the fact that the genius
must work, and is naturally industrious. The genius of
the classical type cannot be lazy. The genius of the ro
mantic type, even when he is working, can be lazy when
the mood is on. The old adage "genius is born and not
made" is only partially true: the genius is born and
made. The cause of work is the genius. The great artist
is absorbed in his work; the lesser artist, or pseudo-
genius, in the product.
Genius and Talent
What is the essential difference between them?
Work is the key. Genius makes a man work; talent does
not. Talent is the result of work, while genius is the
cause of it. The work of the true genius is unconscious ;
the work of the talented is conscious. Thus, the true
genius may be said to be in the grip of a higher power
of spirit. The genius sees associations which other peo
ple do not see ; he combines old things in new ways ; he
blazes new trails.
Talent is subject to training and can be cultivated.
The Psychology of Genius 51
Talent grows by external accretion, like a crystal ; while
genius springs from within, like true growth.
While it is probably true that "every genius is a
crank," not every crank is a genius! Mrs. Carlyle re
marked that "no woman should ever marry a genius,"
which may be true from her point-of-view, but may
perhaps be set against Nietzsche's remark that "a mar
ried philosopher is ridiculous !"
The genius runs counter to the traditions of the
times in which he lives; he is "different." Therefore, we
make him suffer —because of his differences! The ro
mantic genius loves beauty most, while the classical
genius loves truth most. Hence, philosophers and sci
entists are of the classical genius type, while artists and
poets are of the romantic genius type.
The romantic geniuses are the ones who often verge
on insanity, and supply the majority of cases which
have been quoted. Possibly, this theory is a half-truth.
Classical geniuses are probably further from insanity
than the average person. Lombroso contended that the
"inspiration of genius" resembles an epileptic fit, charac
terized by unconsciousness, visions (usually weird) and
exhaustion. St. Paul, Mohammed, Napoleon, Caesar,
Peter the Hermit, Swift, Moliere, Handel, etc., were
all epileptics. Lombroso's theory applies, at best, to a
few representatives of the romantic type of genius.
Examples of this could certainly be found: Coleridge
was a drug fiend; Mozart had delusions of persecution;
Swift became insane, and prophesied on the streets of
Dublin, where the people came to consult him like an
oracle ; Baudelaire dyed his hair green and wrote erotic
poems to a negress, etc.
This theory of the relations of genius and insanity
52 The Psychic World
did not, of course, originate with Lombroso. Aristotle
pointed out that men of genius were usually sad, and
were of the melancholic temperament. Horace said
that a natural genius either becomes insane or a poet!
He becomes either a genius or a fool ! He does not be
come both, as we have been told. While it may be true
that many geniuses are sad, this may be due to tem
perament—or because they see more of the truth than
other people !
We are inclined to class together the half-witted and
the one-and-a-half witted. In the latter case, we see
only a third of their wits, their powers. Hence, we tend
to class them with the half-witted.
Genius and insanity are both egotistical. Precocity
occurs in the romantic genius type; rarely in the clas
sical genius type. In both genius and insanity we find
erotic irregularities; they are both original; both dif
ferent; both suffer from wanderlust; both are fearless
(we speak of insane courage); both are passionate;
both are awkward; both are insufficiently adapted to
their surroundings; both believe themselves inspired —
but the genius produces original work, while the insane
man does not !
Genius, then, is not a form of insanity—though the
genius may become insane. When the central control is
lost, this occurs. The mind of the genius is more com
plex (as opposed to simple) in structure, and hence
more easily destroyed. Geniuses are the advance-guards
of civilization; they forge ahead, they make original
experiments and try out new theories. They take risks
and develop themselves further along certain lines.
They are more highly strung, and "the tauter the string,
the more readily it breaks."
The Psychology of Genius 53
The genius has to repress himself more than the ma
jority of people, to fit into his environment ; hence there
is a greater "pressure" on him, as psycho-analysis has
shown us. This, of course, is especially true of the ro
mantic genius type.
Every normal child is to a certain extent a potential
genius, inasmuch as he could give one new idea to the
world, one original suggestion, if he were properly
trained. We often bring up children in a way calculated
to squash and stifle all originality, and hence all genius.
For "differences" make genius. Hence, we should let
the child develop and cultivate any "differences" which
he may exhibit, allowing him to be original, within the
bounds of rationality.
Precocity and Genius
At what age does ordinary genius begin to manifest
itself? The answers to this question are difficult and
contradictory. But, as a general rule, genius of the
romantic type begins to manifest at an early age, while
genius of the classical type only becomes pronounced
fairly late in life. Thus, to take but a few examples :
Aristophanes, the great comic poet of Greece, gained
his first prize when but nineteen years of age. Cowley
received the applause of the great at eleven, and Pope
at twelve. Byron's general information, as a boy, was
unusually large and varied, and the list of works, in
divers compartments of literature, which he had pe
rused before his fifteenth year, is astonishing. His first
known poetical effusion was penned at twelve, and at
eighteen he published his first volume of poems. Burns
was a poet at sixteen, his first recorded poem having
been written in memory of a fair girl companion of the
54 The Psychic World
harvest fields, from whose hands he was wont to re
move nettle-stings and thistles. Henry Kirke White was
but seventeen when his first volume of poems was given
to the public; Schiller published a poem on Moses when
only fourteen; Klopstock began his "Messiah" at sev
enteen; at eighteen Tasso wrote "Rinaldo"; Calderon,
the famous Spanish dramatist, penned his first play at
fourteen; Goethe composed dialogues when only six
or seven; Alfred de Musset wrote poems when only
fourteen; Victor Hugo, called the "infant sublime,"
versified when a school boy, and at sixteen produced
work of permanent value; Beaumont composed trag
edies at twelve; Coleridge revealed his poetic genius at
sixteen ; Mrs. Browning began writing poetry at eight,
and published an epic at twelve, while Mrs. Hemans
published a volume of poems at fourteen.
Leonardo da Vinci, the most comprehensive and
versatile of all the great Italian masters of art, when
but a small boy, puzzled his teachers by his original
remarks and searching inquiries. In his first effort at
drawing, he surpassed in grace and naturalness of out
line the models of his experienced instructor. When
Michaslangelo was placed at a grammar school, pre
paratory to his entering one of the learned professions,
he spent his time chiefly in drawing, much to his fa
ther's disgust! Apprenticed to an eminent artist, his
progress was so rapid as to excite the latter's jealousy,
and to compel the confession that his pupil had no
further need of him. Raphael, before he was sixteen,
copied the illustrations of Perugino's designs so per
fectly that his copies were frequently mistaken for the
originals. Gainsborough became a painter at twelve,
and Turner exhibited creditable work at fifteen. Sir
The Psychology of Genius $$
Christopher Wren, at the age of thirteen, had invented
an astronomical apparatus, a pneumatic machine, and
several curious, if not useful, instruments.
At the age of nine years, Handel composed "motets"
and other pieces which were sung in the Cathedral;
and, when only two years older, he provoked the
mingled applause and envy of the foremost composer
and organist of Berlin by his astonishing instrumenta
tion. When but a choir boy at St. Stephen's, Haydn
composed a mass, and was only twelve years old when
he wrote his first opera.
Mozart, when barely able to reach up to the key
board of the piano, would pick out thirds and other
chords while his older sister was taking her lesson, and
at the age of four began to compose. At nine he wrote
sonatas for violin, viola, 'cello, horn, oboe, bassoon and
harpsichord; also a small oratorio; and at twelve, in
the presence of the whole imperial family of Austria,
he wielded the conductor's baton at the performance of
a mass composed by himself for the consecration of a
new church.
Charles Dickens, when but a small boy, became fa
mous among his playmates as the writer of a tragedy
called "Misnar," and also as the relator of impromptu
stories. Bonaparte was very young when he displayed
his extraordinary military genius. Alexander the Great
was only twelve when he assumed the head of the
Macedonian government; Peter the Great became
Czar at seventeen.
Many similar instances could be cited, showing that
numerous great men displayed their genius at an early
age. On the other hand, many of the world's greatest
geniuses did not become famous until they were long
56 The Psychic World
past middle age. To mention but a few cases of this
character :
Age and Genius
The world-famed Cervantes developed no special
brilliancy as a student, and was fifty-eight years of age
when the first part of Don Quixote was given to the
public. Bunyan did not write Pilgrim's Progress until
he was more than forty years of age. Virgil's AZneid
was written between his forty-third and fiftieth years.
yEschylus, the founder of the drama, won his first
prize at forty-one. Dante was thirty-five when he began
the composition of his Divine Comedy. Chaucer's
Canterbury Tales were the product of his old age.
Wordsworth did not gain renown until after forty.
Scott was forty-three before he began to attract at
tention by his writings. Daniel DeFoe was fifty-eight
when he produced his masterpiece Robinson Crusoe;
Milton was sixty when he began to compose his famous
"Paradise Lost." Bach did not compose until he was
past forty. Columbus was fifty-six when he planted his
flag on San Salvador. Franklin was more than forty
when he began his investigation of electricity. Harvey
published his discovery of the circulation of the blood
at fifty. Darwin did not begin to write his Origin
until long past forty, and his Descent of Man was
published some ten years later. Descartes and Leibnitz,
the great philosophers, did not achieve distinction until
they were past fifty; and Kant was forty-six. "Had
Cromwell died at forty-three, England would never
have known a Commonwealth."
It is obvious, therefore, that genius —and particu
larly genius of the classical type —often does not mani
The Psychology of Genius 57
fest itself until late in life, and that the age-expressions
of genius are extraordinarily elastic, extending from
the earliest years to advanced age.
Musical and Arithmetical Prodigies
It will be observed that, in the above discussion, I
carefully limited myself to the manifestations of nor
mal genius —meaning by that, mental output of some
sort of a high order, bearing the stamp of originality
and brilliance. And, while several of the musical and
poetic geniuses (especially) began composing at a very
early age, hardly any of them (with the exception of
Mozart) could rightly be defined as "infant prodigies."
Curiously enough, this seems to be the rule rather than
the exception, in cases of arithmetical prodigies, where
one would expect the result to show much later on in
life! Yet this is not the case. Mr. F. W. H. Myers
compiled a Table (with the help of Dr. Scripture's col
lection) in which he showed that, in thirteen cases of
the sort, the gift was first observed, in all instances,
before the tenth year, and in several at three or four
years of age. Thus, in the cases of Colburn, Prolongeau,
Safford and Van R., it was noted at six; in Mangiamele
and Mondeux at ten ; in Whately at three ; in Bidder at
ten; in Ampere at four; in Gauss at three; and in the
other cases in early boyhood. In practically all in
stances, the gift lasted but a few years, then disap
peared. In some of these cases the adult intelligence
was good, in others average, and in still others low.
In after years, none of these men could remember the
means they employed to solve the problems set them.
The answers "just seemed to come into their heads";
58 The Psychic World
they gave them, and they turned out to be right ! So,
of Van R., it is said :
"He did not retain the slightest idea of the manner
in which he performed his calculations in childhood."
Of Colburn it was stated:
"He positively declared that he did not know how
the answers came into his mind." And so on. Thus of
Bidder:
"He had an almost miraculous power of seeing, as
it were, intuitively what factors would divide any large
number, not a prime. Thus, if he were given the num
ber 17,861, he would immediately remark it was
337X53. • . . He could not, he said, explain how he did
this; it seemed a natural instinct to him." *
(These cases of arithmetical prodigies, of course, in
which the results are obtained quite without the co
operation of the conscious mind, have an interesting
bearing upon the reported cases of calculating animals,
such as the Mannheim dogs, the horses of Elberfeld,
etc. The literature upon this subject is already fairly
voluminous, but, inasmuch as it is not the province of
this book to touch upon this question, I shall not do
more than refer to it in passing.)
In addition to these arithmetical prodigies, how
ever, there are, as we know, prodigies of other types —
• It is tnie that there are many ingenious "systems" and short-cuts
by which a number of apparently complicated problems may be solved;
see, e.g., The Master System of Short Method Arithmetic, by Joe
Bond, Chicago, 1924. These are doubtless known to expert mathema
ticians. It may be taken as certain, however, that such methods are
quite unknown to mathematical prodigies —partly because many of
these systems have only been evolved of late years, and partly be
cause a thorough knowledge of arithmetical principles is necessitated
before these short-cut systems become intelligible ; and, in the majority
of cases, the subjects themselves had no idea as to how the given
results were obtained.
The Psychology of Genius 59
artistic, musical, etc. Nowhere have I been enabled to
find a psychological analysis of any of these cases which
would prove illuminating or helpful in solving the prob
lem in hand. A late work of the kind, The Psychology
of a Musical Genius, by G. Revesz (1925), I found
most disappointing. Aside from the fact that the young
genius in question (Erwin Nyiregyhazi) was shown to
be some three years more advanced, mentally, than
his age would warrant (as shown by the Terman tests)
I can find nothing of much value in the book, from the
psychological point-of-view. And, as against this, we
have such cases as "Blind Tom," who was practically
an imbecile, yet, when placed at the piano, played like
an angel. It can hardly be contended, therefore, that
Erwin's mental precocity proves anything, since, in
other instances, this was notoriously lacking. The ex
planation of these cases is obviously yet to find; *
they
form part and parcel of the general problem of genius,
and we shall accordingly have occasion to refer to them
again when we come to our discussion of the mecha
nism of genius —how genius works. Before doing so,
however, a further discussion of the peculiarities and
general psychological characteristics of genius will be
in order.
Environment, and Other Factors
The environmental influences which might be thought
to have some influence upon the development of genius
are, probably, ( 1 ) Early training, home and school ;
(2) Geographical surroundings; (3) The race to which
one belongs, and (4) The age in which one lives.
• It need hardly be pointed out, perhaps, that the Theosophists
and many others see in such cases clear evidence of the theory of
"reincarnation."
60 The Psychic World
( i ) One would be inclined to believe that this might
have a profound influence upon the budding genius;
such, however, does not appear to be the case ; many of
the world's greatest geniuses have come from poor
families, and have risen to great heights despite educa
tional and social handicaps. They were, moreover,
trained for some trade or profession utterly different
from that in which they ultimately made their mark.
Paradoxical as it may seem, this influence seems to be
very slight, in the majority of cases.
(2) This, on the other hand, appears to be con
siderable—beauty of surroundings and an equitable
temperature seeming essential factors. Royse indeed
goes so far as to assert that "no genius has ever been
known to have sprung up in a country of pronouncedly
unfavorable physical conditions." It is possible, of
course, that this may be due, in large part, to the lack
of educational facilities and the need of devoting all
the energies to the practical affairs of living.
(3) Race again has an important influence upon
genius; the best and most progressive stock has as a
rule produced geniuses —which represent the best of
that stock. But race itself
is,
in
great part, the natural
outcome of geographical environment; and so the
in
fluence of race upon genius resolves itself ultimately
into the prior consideration of the influence of geo
graphical conditions upon genius.
(4) The enormous influence upon the genius of the
age
in
which he lives has long been recognized.
Macaulay,
in
his essay on Dryden, goes so far as to
say that "it
is
the age that forms the man, not the man
that forms the age. Great minds do indeed react upon
the society which has made them what they are; but
The Psychology of Genius 61
they only pay with interest what they have received."
The scientific genius flourishes only in a scientific age;
the artistic genius in an artistic age; the literary genius
in a literary age, etc. There is doubtless a great truth
here; but it must be remembered that many of the
world's greatest geniuses (witness Roger Bacon) ex
pressed themselves in a spirit directly contrary to their
age, and in opposition to it. Progress has certainly been
rendered possible by reason of scientific discoveries, but
more particularly because of intellectual freedom, in
ridding the mind of grotesque beliefs and fears. It may
be largely true that "great geniuses and great epochs
go together," but the mainsprings of the individual
genius seem just as hard to find as ever, even granting
the greater facilities for its expression. And it must
never be forgotten that the genius, in turn, helps to
mold the environment in which he lives. In the words
of William James: "Both factors are essential to
change. The community stagnates without the impulse
of the individual. The impulse dies away without the
sympathy of the community."
Many facts which have in the past been held to be
proofs of hereditary genius may thus doubtless be ex
plained by environmental influences and the spirit of
the age in which such men dwell. Many geniuses have
been driven into their ultimate career as the result of
pure accident. Having thus discovered the vital center
of their lives, they have henceforth devoted themselves
to it with passionate devotion.
While it is true that many men have only achieved
greatness as the result of continuous mental effort, it
is also true that many others have done so with but
slight conscious direction. With them, ideas seem to
62 The Psychic World
spring up spontaneously in the mind, being flashed into
it with lightning-like speed and clarity. At the same
time, a certain devotion to work is always necessary —
giving objectivity to the ideas thus implanted. When
this is not the case, the man remains nothing more than
a dreamer, a visionary. He may be truly inspired, but
he must give expression or external form to his inner
conceptions. This necessitates application, and the
driving force back of this is usually the power of genius
itself.
Racial Experiences and Memories
In her book Everyman's Genius, Mary Austin at
tempts to account for genius by the theory of "racial
experiences." She says:
"Genius is primarily a type of psychological activity.
. . . Genius itself is an inborn capacity for utilizing racial
experience in meeting immediate exigencies. ... It is the
free play of man's inheritance ."
This idea of some sort of a racial memory has played
a large part in modern psycho-analytic literature, as we
know —Dr. C. G. Jung dealing with it extensively in
his book The Psychology of the Unconscious. Dr.
Eugenio Rignano has also discussed it from a totally
different angle in his Biological Memory. How this
can be held to account for genius, however, I cannot
see. The outstanding and essential characteristic of the
genius is that he is different from the rest of humanity,
and does not share with them a common viewpoint.
To take one tentative definition of genius, as "a man
who sees similarities which other men do not," how can
racial experience account for that? The composition
of masses, operas and sonatas, the instantaneous solu
The Psychology of Genius 63
tion of complicated mathematical problems, the dis
covery of new scientific truths, the sublime rendition
of music by a man totally devoid of mentality —how
can racial memory account for these things? This theory
has, it seems to me, been pushed to absurd extremes by
various investigators, even to the extent of accounting
for our "flying dreams" by supposing that they repre
sent a sort of memory, inherited from our ape-like
ancestors, when they lived in trees ! Much of Jung's
material is purely fantastic. There is undoubtedly a
grain of truth in this idea of a racial memory; we prob
ably inherit a set of mental patterns, a sort of psycho
logical groundwork, just as we inherit certain phys
iological stabilities, or even peculiarities, but this in
no wise serves to explain genius. Such racial memories
would tend to make all men very much alike (as indeed
they are) but the essence of the true genius is that he is
different from other men, this constituting the basic
quality of his genius. It is doubtless true that a large
percentage of our conscious mentation is rooted in the
subconscious mind; but not all that rises into the con
scious mind is of equal value ; some of it is good, while
some of it is the veriest rubbish. That is a mistake
which many spiritualists are inclined to make: they
believe that just because writings or messages have
been obtained, by automatic writing or otherwise, that
therefore these messages must necessarily come from
some higher spiritual source, and are to be believed in
consequence. Precisely the reverse of this is usually the
case; they emanate from a lower level of mind than
the normal consciousness, in many instances, and are
accepted as revelations from the beyond merely because
the subjects have hypnotized themselves into the belief
64 The Psychic World
that they must necessarily be so ! If they used ordinary
common sense, in estimating the value of these revela
tions, they would at once see that this is a fact. It
is,
of
course, true that many striking communications have
been received
in
this manner, apparently beyond the
power of the individual to produce normally, in which
information
is
given unknown to the scribe, but these
cases must be judged on their own merits. They repre
sent apparently supernormal phenomena, and are not
characteristic of the normal output, or manifestations
of genius
in
the ordinary acceptation of that word. We
shall have occasion to return to this aspect of the prob
lem later on, however, when discussing the mechanism
of genius and its possible causation.
Physiology and Genius
Inasmuch as the mind
is
in
some manner undoubtedly
dependent upon the brain for its manifestations in this
life, various daring and ingenious theories have been
advanced, from time to time
in
the past, to explain
genius from
a
semi-physiological standpoint. One of
these
is
that advanced by Mr. Aleister Crowley,
in
an
article entitled "Energised Enthusiasm" in Volume IX
of The Equinox. The theory
is
there advanced that,
in
addition to the gross secretion of the sex glands, there
may also be formed (provided the suitable "magnetic
relations" be established)
a
more subtle, secondary
secretion, which
is
poured into the blood stream,
stimulating the nerve cells, and particularly the brain
cells, thus constituting, as
it
were, the physical basis
of
genius.
It
is
to be observed that, at the time when this
article was written, next to nothing was known of the
endocrine glands. Today, this secondary secretion
is
The Psychology of Genius 65
known to exist —though its functions have not been
finally determined. There is doubtless much material of
interest in this connection, which might be obtained by
making a careful, systematic and comparative study of
the whole subject. Inasmuch as so little is known of this
aspect of the question, however, it would be useless to
discuss it further. I mention it here mainly for the sake
of historical completeness, and because of the ingenuity
of the idea.*
Genius and Talent
Before coming to our final discussion of the nature
of genius, a few words must be said as to the essential
differences between true genius and mere talent—a
topic which has been touched upon before, but only in
a superficial manner. Frequently they are confused, but
there is a great difference between them, from our
present standpoint. Many men have possessed and de
veloped great talent; relatively few of them have been
great geniuses ! Thus, in those ages of the world's his
tory when wars were of almost constant occurrence,
there were many expert generals; they possessed un
doubted talent, which was developed by the spirit of the
age in which they lived. Caesar, Napoleon and Alex
• In his Goetia of Solomon the King, Crowley has pursued this line
of suggestive inquiry, particularly with regard to magical ceremonies
and invocations, and he there says:—
"What is the cause of my illusion of seeing a spirit in the triangle
of Art? Every smatterer, every expert in psychology, will answer:
'That cause lies in your brain '
These unusual impressions, then,
produce unusual brain changes; hence their summary is of unusual
kind. Its projection back into the apparently phenomenal world is
therefore unusual. The spirits of the Goetia are portions of the human
brain. . . . Our Ceremonial Magic fines down, then, to a series of
minute, though of course empirical, physiological experiments. . . ." He
elsewhere speaks of "inflaming the brain" by means of magical cere
monies, etc.
66 The Psychic World
ander the Great were, however, military geniuses.
Many men have written upon evolution, but there was
only one Darwin. Tens of thousands of men have com
posed music, written poetry and painted pictures, but
the great geniuses in all these fields stand out like
beacon lights, and have become household words. The
same is true in any department of human endeavor.
The output, intellectual or artistic, of the merely
talented man is easily understood by us, and requires
no stretching of ordinary psychological theories in
order to account for his results. The same cannot be
said of the products of true genius —particularly if we
take into account, as we must, the results obtained by
the various musical, arithmetical and other prodigies.
For, in their cases, as we have seen, no intellectual
background or training has usually been present:
"Blind Tom," a virtual idiot, who could nevertheless
play the most difficult musical compositions divinely,
when placed at the piano ; children extracting cube-roots
and stating the number of seconds they had lived, al
most before knowing their mathematical tables;
veritable infants composing great music before being
taught the elements of harmony and composition.
These are the cases which are difficult to explain by
means of normal psychological principles, and these
are the cases which represent, in the «'* degree, those
flashes of inspiration which constitute the essence of
true genius. In practically all these cases, the conscious
mind does not seem to participate in the results, the
ideas being seemingly flashed into it with lightning-like
celerity, from some apparently external source. What
is this source, and how may we explain genius of this
character ?
The Psychology of Genius 67
Myers's Theory of Genius
The credit for the original attack upon this problem
must be given to Mr. F. W. H. Myers who, in July,
1892, published his article on "The Mechanism of
Genius" in the Proceedings S.P.R. (Vol. VIII, pp.
333-61). At the time when Myers wrote, practically
nothing of value had been written upon the subject,
and the daring originality of his views must always be
given due credit. His article constituted one of a series
of nine brilliant papers on "The Subliminal Conscious
ness," contributed to the publications of the Society.
Myers' views may be summarized, in his own words, as
follows :
"I suggest that Genius . . . should be regarded as a
power of utilizing a wider range than other men can
utilize of faculties in some degree innate in all ; a power
of appropriating the results of subliminal mentation
to subserve the supraliminal stream of thought ; so that
an 'inspiration of genius' will be in truth a subliminal
uprush, an emergence into the current of ideas which
the man is consciously manipulating of other ideas
which he has not consciously originated, but which have
shaped themselves beyond his will, in profounder
regions of his being. I shall urge that there is here no
real departure from normality; no abnormality, at least
in the sense of degeneration; but rather a fulfillment of
the true norm of man, with suggestions, it may be, of
something supernormal; of something which transcends
existing normality as an advanced stage of evolutionary
progress transcends an earlier stage. . . . The differentia
of genius lies in an increased control over subliminal
68 The Psychic World
mentation. . . . When the subliminal mentation forces
itself up through the supraliminal, without amalgama
tion, as in crystal-vision, automatic writing, etc., we
have sensory or motor automatism. . . ."
Genius and the Supernormal
Myers's theory of genius is not only original and
ingenious, not only does it enable us to understand much
of the mechanism actually involved, but it also dove
tails nicely into a series of supernormal facts. Assume
a stream of subconscious intellection of a far-reaching
character—a subliminal consciousness —rushing along
and maturing ideas of its own.* Normally, this process
remains unconscious; occasionally, however, the final
end-products, so to say, are flashed into the conscious
mind, by reason of the pressure of the psychic energy
lying behind these ideas. They then emerge into con
sciousness, much as a bubble might burst upon the sur
face of water, when liberated from some reservoir in
the depths beneath. The finished product is thus brought
vividly into consciousness, in the form of the solution
of some problem, the explanation of some puzzling
question, etc., constituting an inspiration of genius, or
some intuition, or hunch, and so on, as the case may be.
The elaboration or working-out of the problem has
been effected in the depths beneath, and the product of
the subliminal mentation has emerged into conscious
ness in some more or less clearly defined form.
This final product may take one of various forms —
visual, auditory, etc., if it emerges in the form of some
• It is hardly necessary, at this late date, to adduce evidence that
such subconscious mentation goes on ; the literature of normal and
abnormal psychology is filled with such material, aside from any evi
dences furnished by purely psychic phenomena.
The Psychology of Genius 69
"sensory automatism;" automatic writing, typtology,
etc., if in some motor form. Or it may appear as a
purely mental product —as some "idea" which emerges
into consciousness. In all these cases, the result is given,
but not the means by which this result is obtained. The
intermediate steps, the working-out of the problem, has
all been purely subconscious.
It is right and normal that our subconscious func
tions should remain such; too easy access to these
depths of our being is not usually to be desired. Just
as there is a physical diaphragm across the middle of
our body, separating the lungs and heart from the
viscera below, so there seems to be a sort of "psychical
diaphragm," if I may so express it, separating the con
scious from the subconscious mind. In the majority of
normal, healthy individuals, this psychic diaphragm
is
more or less thick or impervious, preventing
a
too-
ready flow, back and forth, of this mental material;
but,
in
some cases, this barrier seems to become thinned
or pervious, or overly porous, allowing
a
relatively free
flow between these two streams of mentation. When
this
is
the case, more extensive portions of the subcon
scious mind are tapped, or overflow into the conscious
mind. The result
is
an influx of new material, good or
bad, as the case may be. For
it
must be remembered
that, as Mr. Myers put
it
:
"Hidden
in
the deep of our being
is
a
rubbish-heap
as well as
a
treasure house; degenerations and insani
ties as well as beginnings of higher development; and
any prospectus which insists on the amount of gold to
be had for the washing should describe also the mass
of detritus
in
which the bright grains lie concealed. . .
."
The quality of the output will therefore depend upon
70 The Psychic World
the layer of subconsciousness which has been tapped,
whether this be normal and healthy, or the reverse. In
the one case, we get the inspirations of genius; in the
other abnormalities and insanities. The close connec
tion between the two is thus evident, and we are en
abled to see why these connections should exist. If mere
rambling thoughts emerge, semi-personalized and
loosely held together, we obtain the rubbish character
istic of insanity and many of the so-called spiritualistic
"messages." If, on the other hand, some portion of a
well-ordered stream emerges, we obtain meaningful,
clear-cut communications, flashed from the subconscious
to the conscious mind, which may take one or other
form, as outlined above.
It all depends upon the stratum of the subconscious
mind from which these thoughts originate, and the
character and activity of that stratum. Thus, to take a
typical example : Ulysses, by James Joyce. Read as an
ordinary book, it is a more or less meaningless jumble
of erotic inanities; looked at from another point-of-
view, it is a most remarkable psychological document.
As I regard
it,
the book represents the output of
a
morbid subconscious mind, the author having unusual
access to that mind, and viewing what
is
taking place
within it. His "psychical diaphragm" was evidently ex
tremely porous, allowing
a
relatively free flow, through
it,
of these subconscious thoughts and ideas. That
is
the
unusual factor. We can readily assume that we should
only have to descend the slope
a
little further
in
order
to reach the level of sheer insanity. The revelations of
Blake and many others of his type indicate the border
land realm from which their inspirations were obvi
ously derived.
The Psychology of Genius 71
On the other hand we find, fortunately, many in
stances in which helpful and lofty messages have been
given—the true inspirations of genius. These emerge
from a wholesome, normal stratum of the mind, which
is active and integrated within itself. The end-products
of this subliminal mentation have been flashed into the
conscious mind, either as original ideas, or as some
form of automatism. The former, of course, are the
more common. The latter border upon other super
normal phenomena. These messages from the subcon
scious mind may take one of various forms, as before
stated, and Mr. Myers must again be given the credit
for showing just how this may come about, and showing
the relationship between all sorts of apparently unre
lated phenomena. Dreams, ghosts, premonitions, clair
voyance, automatic writing, crystal-gazing, warning
voices, ghostly touches, hysteria, genius, hallucinations,
telepathy—what an apparent chaos from which to
bring order ! Yet Myers showed that all these were
in some way related; that many of these curious phe
nomena had a common source, and he succeeded in
showing what that source was.
Thus, said Myers, automatisms may be either motor
or sensory. If motor, we find the subconscious express
ing itself in automatic writing, or in radiating energy,
as exemplified in certain cures, or in the movements of
objects without contact, etc. If sensory, this may take
various forms, or methods of externalization, accord
ing to the sense affected. Thus, supposing an individual
be walking across a dark moor at night; suddenly an
apparition rises before him, with uplifted hand, and as
suddenly vanishes. Investigation proves that another
step would have carried the voyager over the edge of
72 The Psychic World
a precipice. Need we assume that this was some
guardian angel sent to warn him in time? By no means !
We may assume that the subconscious mind perceived
the danger, and expressed its knowledge in this dra
matic and symbolical form. In this case, the impression
was visual in character. But again, the subject may hear
a voice, warning him not to proceed. In such case, the
sense of hearing had been appealed to. Or the subject
might have felt a restraining hand. Here, the sense of
touch was affected. These are but the various ways in
which the subconscious mind expressed or externalized
its knowledge. And similarly, throughout the whole
realm of these phenomena, Myers showed that the
subconscious mind might be the primary factor at work,
inter-connecting and blending them all into a harmoni
ous whole. As Professor James expressed it: "What
ever the judgment of the future may be on Mr. Myers's
speculations, the credit will always remain to them of
being the first attempt in any language to consider the
phenomena of hallucination, automatism, double per
sonality, and mediumship as connected parts of one
whole subject." {The Will to Believe, p. 316.) It will
thus be seen that the subconscious mind and its prob
lems form an integral part of all psychic investigation,
and have thrown a flood of light upon the mechanism
of many of these curious phenomena.
Intuition and Inspiration
Intuition has been variously defined, from varying
points-of-view. Perhaps one of the best definitions is
that contained in Walter Newton Weston's book Intui
tion, namely, as "that sense or faculty in the human
mind by which man knows (or may know) farts of
The Psychology of Genius 73
which he would otherwise not be cognizant —facts
which might not be apparent to him through process of
reason or so-called scientific proof. This faculty is called
intuition."
When we come to inquire into the mechanism of in
tuition, however, we discover that very little has been
said upon the subject in the past of any real value.
Nearly everything which has been written can be boiled-
down into a single sentence : a prompting from the sub
conscious mind. But just how the subconscious mind
obtained its information is not always clear ! Sometimes,
this is clearly traceable, it is true: slight incidents,
unnoticed observations and comparisons, inferences, un
conscious perceptions, etc., these all play a part in form
ing the ultimate product. However, there are many
cases on record where such explanations do not explain,
and in these instances we seem to have evidence of some
supernormal faculty at work, acquiring the necessary
information, and subsequently imparting it to the con
scious mind, in some more or less vague manner. It is
indeed hard to draw the line between intuition, as thus
understood, and other supernormal faculties.
Inspiration may mean either one of two things:
religious inspiration —which is the sense in which the
word is generally used; or non-religious inspiration.
With the former we are not concerned. The latter is
more closely connected with our subject. But when we
seek for a definition for this kind of inspiration, and
find it expressed in such words as the following, "a
belief in an inner or occult sphere of the mind which
can be influenced in other ways than through the
senses," * it is obvious that we are merely stating one
• The Psychology of Inspiration, by George L. Raymond, pp. 55-56.
74 The Psychic World
of the many problems of psychical research in other
words!
The Source of the Information
Assuming, then, that the flashes or inspirations of
genius represent uprushes from the subliminal con
sciousness, emerging into the conscious mind as finished
products, the question still remains: Whence did the
subliminal obtain this information, which was thus im
parted? Here we come to the crux of the problem, and
it must be admitted that any answer we may make to
this question must be merely tentative and theoretical.
It is possible that some of these ideas may have been
telepathically acquired, from other living minds—as
in those instances when two or more people have had
the same idea (say for an invention) at the same time.
The number of cases of this character would probably
be unexpectedly large, if they could be collected; no
sooner does an original idea strike one man than it
strikes another also, and both begin working upon the
problem at the same time. Others seem to have been
acquired by some kind of clairvoyance—cryptssthesia,
in the larger sense. Others cannot be thus explained.
It would seem, in many cases, as though some larger
reservoir of mind were in some way tapped, and the
vast storehouse of its potential knowledge drawn upon.
This is doubtless what Myers meant when he spoke of
the multiplication-table being, as it were, "in the air."
All minds may perhaps ultimately be unified at some
common source, this forming the common spiritual
Soil of humanity. Thus : just as every tree of the forest
is undoubtedly a separate living entity, (yet their roots
are planted in a common soil, unifying them in Mother
The Psychology of Genius 75
Earth) so it is possible that humanity may be in some
manner unified in some larger spiritual world, from
which we draw our mental sustenance, and from which
we emerge as seemingly separate beings, just as the
sun's rays emanate from a central source. In this vaster
Cosmic Mind, all knowledge, all wisdom, may be con
tained, and the individual human being has only to
induce within himself, consciously or unconsciously, the
proper mental attitude, in order to open the doors of
his inner vision, and receive this influx of knowledge
and power.
Were some process of this kind really involved (as
the Yogis have long taught) it would but remain for
us to discover the proper technic, in order to receive
or command this Universal Knowledge at will. This
is,
perhaps, the state of Cosmic Consciousness, of which
so many artists and poets have tried to tell us,
in
words
which evidently fail to convey the true inner meaning
and vastness of their experience.
One further theory must not be lost sight of,
a
theory which
is
indeed, to many, an obvious truth. This
is
the possibility that other minds, possessing superior
knowledge, are indeed contacted telepathically, but
minds no longer in the flesh, spiritual entities of
a
higher order, whose wisdom transcends our own, and
whose knowledge
is
imparted to living beings, who
have voluntarily or otherwise placed themselves
in
a
suitable attitude for the reception of these truths. On
this view, the flashes of inspirational genius would
represent thoughts and ideas imparted from some other
mind,
in
which they originated, the man of genius being,
on this view, merely
a
channel through whom these ex
ternally initiated ideas might flow.
76 The Psychic World
All is possible! We do not know the ultimate solu
tion of the majority of problems which confront us in
this complex living Universe. We must leave our minds
open for the reception of all new truths. Certain it is
that the central problems of genius still remain largely
unsolved, and will probably only be solved when a
clearer knowledge is obtained of the baffling problem
of the connection of mind and matter. Possibly, as
Myers suggested, these higher powers and faculties are
not the product of terrene evolution, but are intended
for use in some other sphere or world. Some day, per
haps, we shall know. Meanwhile, we can but continue
our investigations, firm in our belief that the Universe
must ultimately be rational, and that Truth, which is
said to be mighty, shall at last prevail !
V
Personality and Personal Identity
It would be impossible, within the limits of one Chap
ter, to summarize the various psychological and meta
physical views regarding such terms as "self," "per
sonality," "soul," "ego," "consciousness," "personal
identity," "individual," "mind," "subject," "psyche,"
etc., which have been advanced in the past. Some of
these terms are now practically discarded by psy
chologists ; some of them have been given specific mean
ings by differing schools of thought; some of them
are vague and ambiguous, and are used in one sense by
some men and in another sense by others. Thus, the
word "soul" has been practically abandoned by psy
chologists (being left to the theologians) and is re
placed by other terms which, it is contended, more
accurately express the facts. Formerly, it was more or
less synonymous with mind, and Aristotle speaks of a
"vegetative soul," an "animal soul" and a "transcen
dental soul." * "Mind," again, was used to define "con
sciousness"; but it was found that mind, in its broadest
sense, must mean much more than this since we have
subconscious and unconscious minds, and we attribute
mind to many of the lower animals, which certainly
have no self-consciousness.
The word "consciousness" is itself discarded by the
majority of our modern psychologists, who fiercely
resent its use. The term "psyche" has been largely ap
propriated by the psychoanalytic school; the word "in-
• Cf. Hammond : Aristotle's Psychology.
77
78 The Psychic World
dividual" is most frequently used as synonymous with
"organism," while "personality," "the self," etc., either
involve metaphysical discussion, or are resolved into
other terms.
All in all, enormous difficulties at once present them
selves the moment we begin to use any of these terms;
and while the man-in-the-street may feel that he knows
very well what he means when he speaks of his "per
sonality," his "personal identity," etc., the psychologist
does not, demanding a more accurate and up-to-date
definition of his terms before discussing them.
We must first of all endeavor, therefore, to define
our terms somewhat—enough for our present purposes
—before proceeding to utilize them in connection with
psychic phenomena ; for if we speak of the survival of
personality and the proof of personal identity we must
know at least what we are talking about, and what is
supposed to survive and in what personal identity con
sists. After we have come to some agreement on these
points, it will be time to consider the evidence afforded
by psychical research as bearing upon these problems.
In order to clear the air as rapidly and effectually as
possible, I propose, first of all, to summarize very
briefly what William James has to say upon these ques
tions, in his Psychology. After doing so, some of the
later views may be taken into account. James's masterly
presentation is everywhere acknowledged to be the best
up to that time, being embodied in his chapters on
"The Stream of Thought," and "The Consciousness
of Self." A brief epitome and a few quotations will
doubtless serve to summarize his argument.
Five characteristics of thought at once present them
selves, upon slight reflection. These are :
Personality and Personal Identity 79
(1) Every thought tends to be part of a personal
consciousness; thought tends to personal form; it is not
merely a thought, it is my thought.
(2) Thought is in constant change. No mental state
once gone can recur and be identical with what it was
before.
(3) Within each personal consciousness, thought is
sensibly continuous. Hence, we may call it a stream of
thought.
(4) Human thought appears to deal with objects
independent of itself; it possesses the function of know
ing. Thought may, but need not, in knowing, discrimi
nate between its object and itself. However complex the
object may be, the thought of it is one undivided state
of consciousness.
(5) It is always interested more in one part of its
object than in another, and welcomes and rejects, or
chooses, all the while it thinks.
This stream of thought, then, possessing these
peculiar characteristics, constitutes the basic ground
work or substratum of consciousness and the Self —us
ing these terms, for the present, in a purely popular
sense. We must now analyze this consciousness of self
in greater detail.
The Empirical Self, or Me, in its widest possible
sense, "is the sum-total of all that a man can call his."
This Self has certain feelings and emotions—self-feel
ings —and gives rise to certain actions: self-seeking and
self-preservation. The Self also has certain constituents,
which may be sub-divided as follows :
(a) The material self: the body, its possessions,
etc.
(b) The social self: relations to other people.
80 The Psychic World
(c) The Spiritual self, which may be called the
"self of selves." This requires a more detailed analysis.
It seems to be the active element of consciousness. This
self is felt. But what is felt? In what does the feeling
of this central, active self consist? James believes that,
if introspection be carried on carefully enough, it will
be found to consist in certain subtle bodily processes,
mostly taking place in the head. So, concludes James, if
this be true and sufficiently inclusive, "it would follow
that our entire feeling of spiritual activity, or what
commonly passes by that name, is merely a feeling of
bodily activities whose exact nature is by most men
overlooked."
However, over and above these, there is an obscurer
feeling of something more. What this is may be left
for the moment; nor need we stop to consider self-
seeking, self-feeling or self-preservation. These all
constitute part of the "Phenomenal Self." We accord
ingly turn to our greatest problem —that of the Pure
Ego.
The first thing that strikes us here is the sense of
Personal Identity—the feeling that "I am the same
Self that I was yesterday." All thoughts which we have
relating to this Ego have a certain warmth and in
timacy which other thoughts do not. This feeling of
sameness, however, is not unique; it is a frequent phe
nomenon. It is probable that the perception of same
ness, with regard to personal identity, is like any other
perception of sameness by the mind. Resemblance
among the parts of a continuum of feelings . . . this con
stitutes the real and verifiable "Personal Identity"
which we feel.
Consciousness, while fluent, nevertheless seems to
Personality and Personal Identity 81
flow in a series of pulsations. Each of these pulses rep
resents the passing thought, the thought of the moment.
But each thought inherits or appropriates the previous
thought, as it comes into being. "Each thought is thus
born an owner, and dies owned, transmitting whatever
it realized as its Self to its own later proprietor."
The passing thought then seems to be the Thinker;
and, though there may be another non-phenomenal
Thinker behind that, so far we do not seem to need
him to express the facts. Consciousness, in short, is ap
parently made up of a series of passing thoughts, which
are themselves the thinkers; and the sense of personal
identity is felt because of the feelings of warmth and
intimacy before mentioned, associated with these
thoughts, which are connected with this Thinker. On
this view, it will be seen, a transcendental Thinker is
done away with; it is not needed, and we do not need
any Consciousness, as such, behind and beyond these
thoughts, since it is composed of them and nothing but
them. (This theory has been elaborated in great detail
by Dr. Henry Rutgers Marshall, in his work on Con
sciousness, and by other writers.)
Having arrived at the above conclusion, James then
passes on to review the history of the theories which
have been advanced as to the nature of the Pure Self,
or inner principle of Personal Identity. These are three
in number, viz.:
( 1 ) The Spiritualistic theory.
(2) The Associationist theory.
(3) The Transcendentalist theory.
Let us consider these in turn.
The first of these postulates a Soul—a non-material,
thinking entity. We here encounter, of course, all the
82 The Psychic World
difficulties connected with the problem of the connec
tion of mind and matter, into which it would be im
possible to enter now. James concludes that "the soul
is at all events needless for expressing the actual sub
jective phenomena of consciousness as they appear. . . .
The soul-theory is a complete superfluity, so far as ac
counting for the actual verified facts of conscious ex
perience goes. . . . The soul, when closely scrutinized,
guarantees no immortality of a sort we care for. . . .
My final conclusion . . . about the substantial Soul is
that it explains nothing and guarantees nothing. ... Its
successive thoughts are the only intelligible and verifi
able things about it. . . ."
Coming, now, to the Associationist theory, this fares
no better at his hands. James points out that conscious
ness cannot be a mosaic, merely stuck together, or tied
together in some way, but is a unique, whole thing —
explicable, he thinks, on the theory previously advanced.
We need not stop to consider this highly controversial
matter at length.
The Transcendentalist theory, due largely to Kant,
is similarly disposed of by James
—his conclusion being
that it is unnecessary, in so far as it is intelligible. He
concludes that, "we may sum-up by saying that person
ality implies the incessant presence of two elements, an
objective person, known by a passing subjective thought
and recognized as continuing in time Let us use the
words ME and I for the empirical person and the
judging Thought."
The ME constantly changes throughout life; there
is only a relative identity maintained, while there is a
slow shifting, in which some common ingredient is
seemingly maintained. There are changes in the ME,
Personality and Personal Identity 83
recognized by the I. These changes may be slow and
slight, or they may be rapid and grave. The latter may
be called mutations of the self, and consist (a) of
alterations of memory (lapses, diseases of memory,
etc.) ; or (b) of actual alterations in the self. These in
turn consist (i) of insanities; (ii) of alternating and
multiple personalities; and (iii) of mediumships or
possessions —which are thus regarded as types of alter
nating personalities. All these must of course be re
garded as abnormal, though the last may merge into
the supernormal.
This concludes James's argument and his lengthy dis
cussion of the consciousness of self. He ends by saying,
however, that the question of the "ultimate knower"
remains a metaphysical question, and that "room for
much future inquiry lies in this direction."
Illuminating as it
is,
this theory of James's has been
severely criticized
by
several writers, e.g., Professor
F. B. Jevons,
in
his Personality.
I
cannot do better,
perhaps, than quote
a
few passages from his book,
in
which this criticism appears. He says
:
"If proof be wanted to show that James does, with
out knowing
it,
postulate
a
subject or person,
it
can be
found in his own words. The sense of our personal
identity, he says, 'is grounded on the resemblance of
the phenomena compared.' If phenomena are compared
they must be compared by somebody. ...
A
subject or
person
is
simply indispensable. If nobody makes com
parisons, no comparisons will be made. If nobody draws
inferences, no inferences will be drawn. . . .
"It
is,
however, not our personality alone, but our
personal identity which James seeks to explain away.
He explains
it
first by substituting resemblance for
84 The Psychic World
identity; and next by seeking for it in the phenomena,
and not in the mind to which the phenomena are pre
sented and by which the phenomena are compared. But
by the very meaning of the words 'resemblance' is not
the same as 'identity.' Things which resemble one an
other are things which, though they resemble one
another, are different. If they were not different, they
would not resemble one another. They would be iden
tical. What is asserted by the upholders of personal
identity is not that the phenomena presented to the
subject or person are identical, but that the subject or
person to whom they are presented, and by whom they
are compared, is identical. . . .
"It would seem to be quite plain that, if the pass
ing thought is the thinker, then there are as many
Thinkers as there are passing thoughts. . . . But if our
personal consciousness is a stream of thought, a unity,
and a whole, then all that psychology, or psychological
analysis, can do is to attend to each of its various phases
or parts separately. But though the psychologist may
attend to them separately, the fact that he attends to
them separately does not give them any separate ex
istence. . . . Moments —separate moments —are pure
abstractions : time is continuous and unbroken. And the
momentary thinker, for that very reason, if for no
other, is a pure abstraction, scientific —convenient and
even necessary for scientific purposes—but to be found
only in the domain of science, not in the actual world of
fact" (pp. 49-77)-
While all this may be true in one sense, it is certainly
not true in another ! If we desire to analyze personality,
we obviously cannot take the whole life of a man into
consideration, but only a very small fraction of
it,
and
Personality and Personal Identity 85
preferably the present moment. Immediately-past
states, reproduced by recent memories, also constitute
the subject of analysis. We are more or less limited to
these, in any investigation which may be made. The
object of any analysis of the Self is certainly to find out
how it is composed or made-up, its essential constit
uents. And, just as some of our complex emotions
have been shown to be compounded of simpler ones, so
the more complex elements of the human mind may also
be shown to be compounded, as it were, of similar men
tal material.
Thus, to illustrate, by way of the emotions. McDou-
gall, in his Social Psychology, has shown that Admira
tion is compounded of wonder and negative self-
feeling; Awe, of admiration and fear; Reverence, of
awe and gratitude; Scorn, of disgust and anger; Con
tempt, of disgust and positive self-feeling; Loathing,
of fear and disgust; Hate, of anger, fear and disgust;
Envy, of negative self-feeling and anger; Reproach, of
anger and tender emotion; Anxiety, of tender emotion,
pain and anger; Revenge, of anger and positive self-
feeling; Sorrow, of tender emotion and negative self-
feeling; Pity, of tender emotion and sympathetically-
induced pain; and so forth.*
Now, in the same way that our emotions can be
split-up, and shown to be due to more primary and
simple emotions, the complex structure of our mental
life may also be similarly analyzed. Before attempting
such an analysis, however, a few commonly-used words
must first of all be defined, or explained, so that the
• This analysis has since been modified in various directions, but
it left intact, inasmuch as it is only the principle which is involved,
and not the psychological details.
86 The Psychic World
reader may follow the jargon of the modern psy
chologist without undue difficulty. Only a few such
definitions will be necessary for our present purposes.
An affect is a specific kind of feeling or emotion.
A complex is any group of factors in the mental con
stitution. As used especially by the psychoanalysts, a
system of emotionally-toned ideas which have been
"repressed" —thus frequently giving rise to morbid be
havior.
A sentiment is an idea of an object, with which one
or more emotions are organized. (Prince: The Uncon
scious, p. 449.)
Cognition may be defined as "any process by means
of which one arrives at knowledge or awareness of an
object." (English: A Student's Dictionary of Psycho
logical Terms.)
Conation. When a present mental state tends by its
intrinsic nature to develop into something else, we have
conation.
Organization. An ensemble, formed of different
parts which cooperate. This may apply to the body (as
an organism) or to the mind.
With these preliminary definitions in mind, we may
now briefly summarize Prof J. W. Bridge's article, "A
Theory of Personality," published in the Journal of
Abnormal Psychology, January, 1926. He says in part:
"Personality is a psycho-physiological concept. This
is meant in the sense that consciousness and bodily re
sponse are subjective and objective aspects of the same
thing, in accordance with the double-aspect theory of
mind-body relation.* . . . The personality has three
• We shall come to a discussion of this point later on.
Personality and Personal Identity 87
parts or divisions; cognition, affection and conation. . . .
Some components of personality are original, some are
acquired. The original components or elements are
probably sensation and image. More complex, derived
components are perception, memory, association, judg
ment, reasoning, etc. . . . From the standpoint of con
sciousness the basic element is probably impulse (urge
or drive). . . . An important component of personality
occurring in all three of its divisions is intelligence, or
the capacity to learn, which on analysis is probably re
ducible to the capacity to form and to change associa
tive bonds. ... By organization of personality is meant
the formation of associative bonds among the various
elements and the arrangement of the various compo
nents into a hierarchy of more or less complex
levels. . . .
"Cognitive organization may begin with simple sen
sations and images. These are organized into percep
tions and ideas. These are further organized into cogni
tive attitudes, information, and systems of knowledge.
. . . Affective organization may begin with simple feel
ings and emotions, which are modified, conditioned and
organized into compound emotions, moods, affective
attitudes, sentiments, loyalties, interests and aversions.
. . . The organization of affective elements may be
called the temperament. The temperament is thus the
total affective make-up Cognitive organization may
begin with simple impulses which are conditioned, modi
fied and integrated into more and more complex im
pulses These are coordinated into motor attitudes
and habits. . . . The organization of conative elements
may be called character.
88 The Psychic World
"The personality as thus described varies greatly
from individual to individual. . . . There is individual
difference in the complexity of personality. . . . There is
no doubt marked variation in the degree of integration
of the personality. . . . Organization is a slow process,
but it is a measure of the strength of the personality as
a whole or in any of its parts. . . . Disorders of person
ality are merely extreme forms of variations. . . . Weak
ness of personality may be used to mean poor organ
ization and development. . . . Since the development of
personality depends in part upon environmental influ
ences, it behooves education to assist in affective organ
ization as well as in cognitive and motor. ..." *
Dr. Harold I. Gosline, in an article on "Personality
from the Introspective Viewpoint," (Jo. Ab. Psy.,
April, 1920), asserts that: "Activities of the personal
ity may all be grouped under the will, the attention and
the thought process. The common factor in all of these
is the feeling of impulse." Sidis, on the other hand, has
contended t that the personality cannot be thus
broken-up ad lib., but that "mental life is not simply a
series of mental states; it is an individuality in which
the psychic series occurs." This position, it will be
observed, is directly opposed to that of James, so that
•Cf. also Morton Prince: "The Structure and Dynamic Elements
of Human Personality," Journal of Abnormal Psychology, Dec, 1930,
wherein very similar views are expressed. Also his book The Un
conscious. The "motor theory" of consciousness —monistic —will be
found defended at length in E. B. Holt's Concept of Consciousness ;
while, as we know, the Behaviorists have tried to do away with it
altogether, in a most radical form: see Watson, Psychology from the
Standpoint of a Behaviourist, etc Cf. also Berman: The Glands Reg
ulating Personality for an exposition of the "glandular" view. It
would be unprofitable to enter into a discussion of these theories now,
since they would take us too far afield. Dorsey and many others
express much the same views, in varying forms.
t The Foundations of Normal and Abnormal Psychology.
Personality and Personal Identity 89
the views of these two psychologists may be set off one
against the other.
Summing-up, now, these views of modern psycholo
gists, regarding the nature of the human personality,
they may I think be stated somewhat as follows:
Instead of being a simple, indivisible thing (as Plato
contended) it is rather a compound, a composite, an in
tegration, something achieved; it represents the sum-
total of our mental and bodily activities. As such, it is
subject to splits, dissociations, mutations of all kinds.
A good analogy would perhaps be a rope, the strands
of which are normally held or bound together by at
tention, concentration, education—all those factors
which tend to unify and integrate the self. At times,
certain strands of the rope (as the result of illness,
emotional shock, etc.) tend to split-off, forming inde
pendent selves, and then we have cases of alternating
or multiple personality.
Consciousness represents one portion of the mind in
action; in the words of Mr. Wakeman, it is a "go"
and not a "thing." On this view, the older conception
of consciousness is done away with. Similarly, the per
manent and lasting nature of personality becomes ques
tionable, if it is not altogether destroyed. Hence, the
difficulty of the modern psychologist in accepting the
hypothesis of survival! He wants to know what sur
vives, and what can possibly survive !
Let us see what may be said in answer to these argu
ments.
In the first place, if consciousness is a "go" and not
a "thing," as stated—that
is,
an action, an activity —
90 The Psychic World
it must be something which acts, something which is
in activity. One cannot have movement without some
thing to move. A cannon-ball moves with great rapid
ity ; but it is the ball which moves. Light travels more
swiftly than anything in the Universe ; but again some
thing moves —ether waves, or corpuscles, or a com
bination of both! One cannot have action, in short,
without postulating something in action; something
which moves. Similarly, one cannot logically contend
that the activity of the mind represents or explains the
mind; rather, one would be forced to the conclusion
that the mind in action represents, phenomenally, the
activity we perceive.
Hence we seem driven to conclude that the mind is
some sort of an entity, whose passing activities are
noted. We may agree to discard the older conceptions
of consciousness, but every one save the extreme Be-
haviorists would agree that something exists, corre
sponding to what used to be called consciousness. What
that something is still has to be explained.
Our Personality, again, seems to be a composite
thing. It is subject to fluctuations, mutations, changes,
dissociations into various selves. There are certain types
of spiritualists, it is true, who dispute this—contending
that whenever such a self is noted, it is in very truth
an independent spirit, seeking more or less vainly to
express itself. Such a contention is of course preposter
ous. It is opposed to the whole massive data of modern
psychopathology; and moreover many of these selves
can be seen building themselves up, as it were, before
our eyes.* In the majority of such cases, nothing in the
• Flournoy gives a pretty illustration of this, in his Spiritism and
Psychology, p. 127 (note) : "Here are the details of this little episode,
Personality and Personal Identity 91
least suggestive of spirits is to be noted. Yet how can
anything which is so apparently unstable have the qual
ity of permanence? And how may it hope to survive
the shock of death—since even minor accidents and
mal-adjustments seem to upset it so completely?
Various answers have been suggested to this diffi
cult question, by psychic students. Mr. F. W. H. Myers,
for example, in his Human Personality, has said:
"In favor of the partisans of the unity of the Ego,
the effect of the new evidence {i.e., psychic phenomena)
is to raise their claim to a far higher ground, and to
substantiate it for the first time with the strongest pre
sumptive proof which can be imagined for it:—a proof,
namely, that the Ego can and does survive not only the
minor disintegrations which affect it during earth-life
but the crowning disintegration of bodily death. . . .
For the conscious Self of each one of us, as we call
it,
does not comprise the whole of the consciousness or of
the faculty within us. There exists
a
more comprehen
sive consciousness,
a
profounder faculty, which for the
most part remains potential only so far as regards the
life of earth, but from which the consciousness and
the faculty of earth-life are mere selections, and which
reasserts itself in its plenitude after the liberating
where we see, as often, the naive subconsciousness, not at first giving
itself to be
a
separate spirit, hastening, nevertheless, to accept the
suggestion which was made to
it
by one of the company. M. Leduc
says, 'Who
is
there?' (No reply.) 'Is
it
a
spirit?' 'No.' M. Leduc keeps
silent
a
moment, then asks, 'Are you always there?' 'Yes.' New silence.
I
request M. Leduc to ask
if
it
is
a
part of himself, or an independent
spirit. He appears
a
little astonished, and asks only the second part
of the question, 'Are you an independent spirit?' 'Yes!' An amusing
effect of this episode was the change of tone in the table toward M.
Leduc. Before
it
had called him thou, but after
it
accepted the sug
gestion that
it
was an independent spirit
it
called him you—as
if
it
were speaking to
a
strange person!"
92 The Psychic World
change of death I conceive that no Self of which
we can here have cognizance is in reality more than a
fragment of a larger Self, revealed in a fashion at
once shifting and limited through an organism not so
framed as to afford it full manifestation."
Mr. Myers, it will be observed, here depends in the
first place upon facts (psychic phenomena) tending to
prove survival —contending, very rightly, that if these
actually prove the continuity of personality, then the
personality must be more stable than commonly sup
posed —even permitting it to withstand the shock of
death. This is an appeal to actual fact, and cannot be
gainsaid, or disposed of by any a priori argument. And,
in the second place, Myers contends that our empirical
self is somehow rooted in a deeper Self, of which it is
a mere temporary expression; and, though mutations
and dissociations may affect this empirical self, the
larger Self is left relatively unaffected thereby—ulti
mately rectifying, synthesizing and unifying these
disordered portions when the opportunity to do so pre
sents itself, in some spiritual world. Naturally, the
validity of his views would depend primarily upon the
proof of survival.
Dr. William McDougall has, again, and from a dif
ferent standpoint, met the various objections which
have been raised to the unity of personality —based
upon the observed cases of mutations, multiple person
ality, etc., in his book, Body and Mind, as follows:
"We must maintain that the soul is in some sense
a unitary being or entity distinct from all others; for
we found that prominent among the facts which com
Personality and Personal Identity 93
pel us to accept the animistic hypothesis are the facts
of psychical individuality —the fact that consciousness,
as known to us, occurs only as individual coherent
streams of personal consciousness, and all the facts
summed-up in the phrase 'the unity of consciousness.'
We found that these facts remain absolutely unintel
ligible, unless we postulate some ground of this unity
and coherence and separateness of individual streams
of consciousness, some ground other than the bodily
organization. . . .
"It may be that the soul that thinks in each of us is
but the chief of a hierarchy of similar beings, and that
this one alone, owing to the favorable position it oc
cupies, is able to actualize in any full measure its capaci
ties for conscious activities; and it may be that, if the
subordinated beings exercise in any degree their psychic
capacities, the chief soul is able, by a direct or tele
pathic action, to utilize and in some measure control
their activities. . . . These alternating personalities may,
therefore, properly be regarded as formed, not by the
splitting of the normal stream of consciousness, but by
the alternation of two phases of the empirical self, or
of the organic basis of personal consciousness, each
of which brings back to consciousness only memories of
experiences enjoyed during former periods of its
dominance. ... I submit that we have no sufficient
ground for the assumption that the co-conscious per- .
sonality is formed by splitting-off from the normal
personality; that rather the facts justify the view that
they are radically distinct. The facts may therefore be
reconciled with the animistic hypothesis by assuming
that a normally subordinate being obtains, through the
weakening of the control of the normally dominant
94 The Psychic World
soul, an opportunity for exercising and developing its
potentialities in an unusual degree. . . ."
It will be seen, therefore, that we have, in these
alternate possibilities, means of escape from the prev
alent notion that such mutations of the self prove ( i )
its complete disintegration, and (2) its total depend
ence upon the brain. For, if the empirical self be re
garded as but a fragmentary portion of the total Self,
and it is this empirical self which suffers mutations, we
obviously have no right to assert that the total self is
thus affected; indeed, many facts might be cited to the
contrary.
Again, as to the dependence of the mind upon the
brain: The chief and most important part of the per
sonality, let us say, consists in the feeling of personal
identity; and James and others have attempted to show,
as we have seen, that this feeling consists largely of
subtle changes taking place within the head.
But what is felt at such times? Changes, it is true,
but how caused? If mind were somehow manipulating
the brain, and expressing itself through
it,
as an instru
ment, would not these changes be perceived also? As
Prof. F. C.
S.
Schiller has expressed it: "If the ma
terial encasement be coarse and simple, as
in
the lower
organisms,
it
permits only
a
little intelligence to per
meate through it;
if
it
is
delicate and complex,
it
leaves
more pores and exits, as
it
were, for the manifestations
of consciousness." (Riddles
of
the Sphinx, p. 294.)
If something of this sort were going on, within the
brain, surely changes would result, and these changes
might be felt, upon attentive introspection; the sluice
gates would be felt on being opened. But these inner
Personality and Personal Identity 95
feelings would not by any means prove that conscious
ness, or the sense of personal identity, was actually be
ing produced by these changes; that would be merely
assuming the creation theory of consciousness, and thus
begging the question ! The process of the transmission
or the manifestation of consciousness might indeed be
felt, upon close introspection; but this would involve
(a) an observer, and (b) the psycho-physiological
facts, as such, without any particular theory as to the
explanation of those facts.*
It will be seen, therefore, that the arguments which
have been brought to bear upon survival, based upon
the complex nature of human personality, while weighty
within their own sphere, do not, nevertheless, prove by
any means conclusive ; for these arguments can be met
by others—offering us alternative explanations of the
observed facts. The feeling of the unity of self, and the
feeling of personal identity, may not, then, be illusory;
they may be based upon actual fact—and may be sub
ject to scientific demonstration ! The central core of
our psychic being may thus be a permanent and abiding
entity—possessing the consciousness of self, and knit
together by a chain of memory which (innumerable
observations seem to prove) is far more inclusive than
any conscious self could possibly embrace. Indeed, the
very essence of memory seems to be that it remains
unconscious; we are never aware of more than an
infinitesimal fraction of our memory-self. Yet some
how, somewhere, these memories are conserved !
•Compare Bergson, Creative Evolution, p. 270: "Consciousness is
distinct from the organism it animates, though it must undergo its
vicissitudes. As the possible actions which a state of consciousness
indicates are at every instant beginning to be carried out in the
nervous centers, the brain undergoes at every instant the motor
indications of the state of consciousness. . . ."
96 The Psychic World
Mechanistic physiology contends that they are recorded
in the brain. Against his view Bergson has vigorously
protested (Cf. his Matter and Memory) ; and if con
scious survival of any sort be proved, it is of course
refuted by the actual facts. Memory would then be
shown to reside in some mental reservoir (individual,
not necessarily Cosmic), from which they could be
drawn by the self-activity of the reflecting mind.
Psychic facts, then, once established, must settle and
determine this question, as they would determine many
another philosophical problem. For, if it be proved
that the mind of man —his personality —actually sur
vives bodily death, and continues its functions and ac
tivities in some spiritual world, then all theories as to
the relation of brain and mind which have been ad
vanced in the past, based upon this assumed and in
evitable relationship, would have to be abandoned, and
be replaced by some form of animism, or interactionism
—as Dr. McDougall has so forcibly contended.
The monistic mind-body relationship (mentioned
earlier in this Chapter) would thus be shown to be
untrue.
As for Parallelism, which contends that mental and
bodily activities are equally real, but run along with
out (as it were) ever touching one another, Hyslop has
shown that this virtually admits the activity of the
mind, in its own sphere, independent of the physical
organism. (See his paper "Parallelism and Material
ism," in Proceedings A.S.P.R., Vol. I, No. 1 ; and his
Problems of Philosophy. See also, in this connection,
Hans Driesch, Mind and Body.)
Mechanism, however —the materialistic conception
that "thought is a function of the brain"—
is,
in
the
Personality and Personal Identity 97
opinion of the majority, still the great stumbling-block
to the acceptance of psychic phenomena : and it is inter
esting to note that Dr. McDougall admits that "psy
chical research has, in my judgment . . . established the
occurrence of phenomena that are incompatible with
the mechanistic assumption."
Let survival once be proved, then, and a world-view
of an entirely different order will be possible. Human
Personality will once again be raised to its position of
dignity and value, and the Soul of man will once more
be enthroned on its former seat of glory.
VI
Deja Vu
The Sense of the Already Seen.
Almost every one, at some time or another in his life,
has had the experience of suddenly feeling that he has
lived through the present moment before —that he has
seen the same sights, heard the same words, performed
the same actions, etc.; that everything is somehow
familiar to him, and that he can almost tell just what is
about to happen next. Among psychologists, it is in
variably assumed that this sense of familiarity is an
illusion; they speak of "false recognition," and classify
this feeling under the general heading of "paramnesia"
(false memory), in opposition to "agnosia," which is a
sense of the "never known."
There can be no doubt that, in the vast majority of
cases, this explanation is the correct one; the apparent
sense of familiarity is illusory, and can be very largely
explained by known psychological principles. Here and
there one encounters cases, however, which are not so
readily interpreted, and these give us food for thought.
They seem to embody supernormal information —facts
which the subject could not possibly have known. These
cases require some other explanation. However, the
whole problem is a most interesting one, and it will be
worth our while to review, very briefly, the various
theories which have been advanced by way of explain
ing this odd phenomenon.
Dr. Alfred Gordon, in an article upon this subject in
the Journal of Abnormal Psychology, (Vol. XV, Nos.
9«
Deja Vu 99
2-3), gives seven curious cases of this type which came
under his own observation. In some of these, the il
lusion of the "already seen" and of the "never seen"
were found in combination in the same individual. He
also refers to cases observed by Hughlings-Jackson
(Brain, XI, 1889), in which this illusion was associated
with attacks of epilepsy; to an instructive case of
"Petit Mai," with a paramnesic aura and illusion of
false recognition cited by J. Seglas, (Revue Neurol.,
1909, No. I, p. 1); to a somewhat similar case re
ported by Collin (ib., 19 13, p. 147) and to observa
tions by Ribot (Diseases of Memory) and Pierre
Janet (Les Obsessions et la Psychasthenie). He con
cludes that:
"Irrespective of which of the two phenomena is
present, there is a common characteristic in all the cases
of this category, namely, an inability for the time being
to distinguish reality from unreality, the objective from
the subjective. On the other hand, a fundamental dis
tinction is evident in both sets of phenomena. In the
illusion of the "already seen," there is a transient and
a very brief sensation of going over again a part of
one's own life; the individual merely finds in the pres
ent his own personality of the past. There is conse
quently no fundamental alteration of judgment. In the
illusion of false recognition, on the contrary, we are
dealing with an erroneous belief of a continuous char
acter, not with a vague impression. The perception is
definite and determined, it concerns a person or group
of persons, an object or group of objects, which of
course implies a radical alteration of judgment. . . .
The disturbance of the sense of 'recognition' in psy
ioo The Psychic World
choses is a common phenomenon, and finds its raison
d'etre in a fundamental change of the personality. . . ."
A frequently noted concomitant of illusions of this
character is the sense of unreality, of dreaminess, in
which the clear sense of personality is temporarily lost.
Dr. Frederic H. Packard has an interesting paper on
this subject, "The Feeling of Unreality," in the Jour
nal of Abnormal Psychology, June, 1906. It
is,
of
course, also characteristic of post-hypnotic states
(Bramwell, Hypnotism, p. 11
1,
etc.).
It
is
also char
acteristic of many psychic experiences.*
The illusion of the "already seen" has been discussed
at great length by psychologists and psychiatrists; an
enormous number of articles having appeared
in
tech
nical journals, etc., which
it
would be impossible even
to enumerate. In addition to these Ribot, William
James, Bergson, Bernard-Leroy, Sully, Janet, Kraspe-
lin, Grasset, Wigan, Proctor, F. Myers, and others
have discussed this question in books and monographs,
and
a
few quotations from the more important of these
will serve to show the various theories which have been
advanced
in
the past
in
order to explain this curious
phenomenon.
Dr. Wigan,
in
his famous work on The Duality
of
the Mind, was among the first to study this illusion. His
explanation was purely physiological. He believed that
there was some temporary dissociation of the action of
the two hemispheres of the brain, and that one of them
* See in this connection the curious article by Dr. Hendrick Hensoldt,
in the Occult Review, December, 1905, "Among the Adepts and
Mystics of Hindustan," in which he tells of these strange alterations
going on within himself, during the production of seemingly illusory
phenomena.
Deja Vu 101
became conscious of some fact a fraction:of ;»: ae'c^nd
before the other. A somewhat similar view was .also
defended by R. H. Proctor. These theorie* fere ^riow,
however, given up.
G. H. Lewes *
suggested that the result noted might
be produced by "the recurrent effect of a shock, the
echo of a passing sensation," or else an actual experi
ence, previously undergone and forgotten. It is obvious
that these theories can explain only a very small per
centage of the recorded cases. Ribot, in his Diseases of
Memory (pp. 1 86-9 1 ) , puts forward the theory that the
sudden hallucinatory state is accepted as the real one,
and the real impression is relegated into the past, as a
recollection. Why this should be so is not at all clear,
nor does Ribot make it so ! James t says, "I have over
and over again in my own case succeeded in resolving
the phenomenon into a case of memory, so indistinct
that, whilst some past circumstances are presented
again, others are not. The dissimilar portions of the
past do not rise completely enough at first for the date
to be identified. All we get is the present scene with a
general suggestion of pastness about it. . . ." While it
is true that the precise time of the supposed past ex
perience is nearly always indefinite and impossible to
locate, James's theory also certainly fails to account for
a large number of recorded instances, in which the ex
perience is far more vivid and striking than in the cases
recorded in his own experience.
Kraepelin, Pick, Forel, Arnauld and others regard
the phenomenon as purely pathological; but the cases
quoted by them were all insane people, suffering from
• Problems of Life and Mind, Vol. V, pp. 129-31.
t Psychology, I, p. 676.
102 The Psychic World
hallucinations and systematized delusions, and entirely
different from. ordinary cases of so-called paramnesia.
.Pierre! Janet
* contended that this illusion of memory
was merely a symptom of more serious mental trouble
—a view which certainly cannot be sustained. James
Sully t attempted to prove that dream experiences
might explain the facts—as indeed they might, a cer
tain number of them. Hoffding, J on the contrary, holds
that past waking experiences serve to explain many
such cases. Grasset rather vaguely places the past mem
ory in "the unconscious mind" ; while Myers § put for
ward the theory that this phenomenon might be ac
counted for by supposing that the subliminal con
sciousness noted a certain scene or event a fraction of
a second before the conscious mind; so that, when the
latter caught-up with
it,
as
it
were, the sense of having
already having experienced the event would naturally
result, since
it
had actually been already experienced
only
a
fraction of
a
second before. This explanation of
Myers doubtless serves to cover many cases of this
type; but again, there are certainly others which can
not be thus accounted for.
The great difficulty we encounter,
in
all these the
ories,
is
why one impression should thus be thrown back
into the past, constituting
a
pseudo-memory, and why
the illusion should be continuous. Bernard-Leroy
clearly pointed out these difficulties, and attempted to
overcome them by supposing that, instead of
a
duality
of images, we have merely an "intellectual feeling" of
the "already seen," which
is
sometimes superadded to
*Les Obsessions et la psychasthenic, Vol.
I,
p. 287 ff.
^Illusions, p. 198.
X
Psychologic, pp. 166-67.
§
Proceedings S.P.R., 1895, 343.
Deja Vu 103
our perception of the present, making us think that it
belongs to the past.* This feeling of vague familiarity
is, however, quite different from those cases
in
which
the subject feels that he has definitely lived through
a
certain experience before, and can almost predict what
is
about to happen,
in
view of the past events. These
are the cases which are difficult to account for, on
theories such as those outlined above.
Bergson
in
his Mind Energy, has attempted to ac
count for this illusion of the "already seen"
by
means
of his theory of memory, and
a
lowering of the psychi
cal tone, accompanied
by
general inattention to life. He
says,
in
part
:
"I hold that memory
is
never posterior to the forma
tion of perception;
it
is
contemporaneous with it. Step
by step, as perception
is
created, the memory of
it
is
projected beside
it,
as the shadow falls behind the body.
But,
in
the normal condition, there
is
no consciousness
of
it
—just as we should be unconscious of our shadow,
were our eyes to throw light on
it
each time they turn
in
that direction. . . . The memory will be seen to dupli
cate the perception at every moment, to arise with
it,
to
be developed at the same time, and to survive
it
pre
cisely because
it
is
of
a
quite different nature. . . . The
memory seems to be to the perception what the image
reflected
in
the mirror
is
to the object in front of it. . . .
It
is
of the past
in
its form and of the present in its
matter
"I turn now to the problem why this memory
is
ordi
narily concealed, and why
it
is
revealed
in
extraordi
nary cases. In
a
general way, or by right, the past only
*
Villusion de Fausse Reconnaissance, 1898.
«
104 The Psychic World
reappears to consciousness in the measure in which it
can aid us to understand the present and to foresee the
future. It is the forerunner of action We hardly
notice the extent to which our present consists in an
anticipation of our future. In these conditions, ought
we not to look for the initial cause of false recognition
in a momentary stop of the impulse of our conscious
ness?. . . Perception is less in the present than in the
future. Suppose now the impulse suddenly to stop;
memory rejoins perception, the present is cognized and
recognized at the same time. . . . False recognition
seems then to be, upon the whole, the most harmless
form of inattention to life. A constant lowering of tone
of the fundamental attention is expressed outwardly by
actual disorder or disease. ... As soon as the arrest
occurs, false recognition results from the natural func
tioning of these two faculties, each allowed its own
way. It would take place every moment if the will, un
ceasingly striving towards action, did not prevent the
present falling back on itself by continually pressing it
forward into the future. The darting forward of con
sciousness, which reveals the life-impetus, escapes anal
ysis by its simplicity. . . ."
It is probable that this theory of M. Bergson's will
explain a large number of cases of deja vu —probably
the majority of which relate to incidents occurring in
ordinary daily life. In all these cases, however, it is
obvious that the explanation depends upon one primary
fact: that the remembered experience has just been
lived through actually, but a moment before. It does
not at all serve to explain those cases in which descrip
tions are given, e.g., of places, scenes, etc., which are
Deja Vu 105
only verified subsequently. Here we verge into the
supernormal; for such cases Myers proposed the term
"promnesia" —"memory beforehand" —to express this
paradox. M. Lalande (Revue Philosophique, Nov.,
1893) quotes some striking cases of this character, sug
gesting that telepathy from other living minds might
account for some of these incidents. As Myers pointed
out at the time, however, there are not many of the
more advanced promnesic cases which telepathy would
explain. Generally there is no other mind apparently
involved, and it simply seems as though the promnesic
either enjoyed at the moment a wider than ordinary
percipience, or had already visited in some super
normal way the scene which he feels that he remem
bers. These are actually two possibilities of which we
have well-attested examples.
I have elsewhere *
suggested that, in certain rare
cases, the subject may perhaps have actually visited the
locality in question in his "astral" body, while partially
conscious. Some instances seem difficult to account for
on any other theory. Thus, in one case known to me, the
subject in question walked through a certain castle, and,
while doing so, stated that a certain door had formerly
been situated where there was now only a brick wall.
Investigation proved that a door had been there, at one
time, but had been built-up, years before. Cases such
as these give us pause, since they are certainly not to
be accounted for on the ordinary theories. If one might
assume some supernormal mode of perception, how
ever, a case such as this might be understood. A clair
voyant vision would hardly explain the facts. Retro-
cognition —supernormal knowledge of the past —seems
• The Story of Psychic Science, p. 100.
106 The Psychic World
largely inter-blended with many of these cases of pre
cognition, and, while they usually apply to individual
lives, they do not invariably do so.
Of this impersonal type of experience, one of the
most striking cases on record is that contained in the
book An Adventure. It was issued under the names of
Elizabeth Morison and Frances Lamont, but the real
names of the authors are well known to psychic stu
dents, and the accuracy and genuineness of the record
was vouched for by the publishers (Macmillan & Co.).
Briefly, their experience was this : While visiting
Versailles, in August, 1901, these ladies walked
through the grounds, visiting especially the Petit Tri
anon. Everything seemed quiet and deserted to them;
the trees and general landscape appeared flat, as
though cut out of cardboard ; they both felt dreamy and
curious, though neither of them mentioned this to the
other at the time. They saw people wearing old-fash
ioned clothing; ancient gardening tools lying about: an
old wheel-barrow, a broken plow, guards in costume,
a kiosk, a bridge, a water-fall, a cottage, a cascade, a
small wood, etc. Now, subsequent investigation showed
that none of these things were in existence at the time
of their visit ! When next they examined the grounds,
everything was different; visitors and tourists were
everywhere about; there was no kiosk, no cottage, no
bridge, no guards, no cascade, etc. Exploration and in
quiry revealed no such places. Initiating a thorough his
torical research, they then discovered that they had
seen the Petit Trianon and the grounds not as they are
today, but exactly as they had been in the time of
Marie Antoinette ! The account should be read in full
to be appreciated,
Deja Vu 107
Here, then, we seem to have an extraordinary case
of knowledge of the past, supernormally acquired—
just as, in cases of precognitions, we have instances of
supernormal knowledge of the future. This is not the
place in which to summarize any of the material which
has been collected with regard to premonitions in gen
eral. I am merely referring to certain incidents which
seem to indicate supernormal knowledge both of the
past and of the future; and drawing attention to the
fact that, if this wider and more extensive fore-knowl
edge be evidenced in such cases, it might certainly be
employed as an explanatory hypothesis in those simpler
cases in which some knowledge of the future seems to
be evidenced. Flashes of genuine premonition may in
fact be operative in such cases—just as Mr. J. W.
Dunne may have induced supernormal knowledge of
both past and future by experimental means.
My suggestion
is,
then, that while many of these re
ported cases of the "already seen" may be accounted
for along purely psychological lines, and by known
principles, some of them suggest genuinely premonitory
flashes,* in which knowledge of the future
is
super-
normally acquired, being then vaguely perceived by the
conscious mind as
a
sort of hazy memory, which event
is
actually lived-through subsequently. This fore
knowledge might be of some scene or event but
a
few
moments
in
the future, or of some event which
is
only
realized hours, days or weeks after the premonitory
warning.
It
is
merely
a
question of degree, not of kind.
Granted the reality and genuineness of premonitory
experiences
it
is,
after all, less strain upon our credulity
to believe that the immediate future can thus at times
be perceived rather than the distant future —since these
108 The Psychic World
cases are far more difficult to understand ! There are,
however, as we know, a number of well-attested cases
of this character on record; and, this being so, we may
well invoke the same supernormal premonitory faculty
to explain the simpler cases also. We should then no
longer deal with an illusion, but with reality.
VII
The Psychology of "Spirit
Communication"
(Some suggestive facts, drawn from the field of Psy-
chopathology, which may serve to throw light
upon this alleged process, and upon the
mental state of the "Communicator,"
while communicating.)
Both Dr. Hodgson and Dr. Hyslop were, as we know,
firm believers in the idea that a spirit entity, during the
actual process of communication, was in a more or less
abnormal mental condition —this fact accounting for
much of the error and confusion noted during the sit
tings. Both men were quite convinced of the persistence
of human personality, and of the actual fact of spirit-
communication. To them, there was no longer the
slightest doubt upon that point. Dr. Hyslop, particu
larly, had declared, some years before his death, that
he regarded the matter as settled, and that he intended
devoting the remaining years of his life, so far as pos
sible, to the study of the problems and difficulties in
volved in the process. He had, as we know, already
written quite extensively upon this topic; but he was
doubtless prevented, by the pressure of work and by
his lingering illness, from devoting the time he would
have liked to this particular question, which was so
near his heart. The object of the present chapter is to
continue this line of investigation —so far as I am en
abled to do so—in the spirit and from the point-of-view
from which he would probably have carried it on. I
109
no The Psychic World
shall not, therefore, stop to question the validity of the
spiritistic hypothesis, but shall assume that this has
been taken for granted ; that the accumulated evidence
is now sufficiently strong to force adhesion to this
belief, and that actual communication has been estab
lished between the two worlds. With this as a starting-
point, innumerable fascinating problems at once present
themselves for solution; and of these the most interest
ing are probably those connected with the actual proc
ess involved —the mechanism employed—and the prob
able difficulties which would be encountered, and would
have to be overcome, by any spirit attempting to send
or communicate messages to those still living. It is this
series of problems with which the present chapter
deals.
In order to obtain a suitable perspective, however,
it will be necessary for us, first of all, to go back to
certain fundamentals. There are, normally, three ways
only in which living, human minds communicate with
one another. These are ( i ) Air vibrations —sound,
speech; (2) Marks made upon paper—writing, print
ing; and (3) Sign language—gestures, etc. It is to be
noted that these are all roundabout, indirect and sym
bolic. We never come into contact with another mind
directly, so to say. If the man to whom we are speak
ing reacts in a certain manner to our words, we merely
infer that he has a mind, that we have somehow
reached and influenced
it,
and that the meaning of our
thought has been conveyed to his mind, by reason of
his reaction to our remarks. He may show some visible
emotion
(a
subtle sign language), or he may respond
by
a
series of sentences, which
in
some manner reach
and influence our mind,
in
the same way that ours
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 1 1 1
reached his. It will be seen at once that, even in the
normal interchange of thought between living human
beings, the process is by no means so simple and obvi
ous as had been supposed; but that a number of
assumptions must be made, and a certain amount of
metaphysical speculation indulged in, before we can
begin to grasp what is apparently actually taking place
before our very eyes. Consider, with Professor Bowne,
what happens when two people converse together and
know each other's mind.*
"No thoughts leave the mind of one and cross into
the mind of the other. When we speak of an exchange
of thought, even the crudest mind knows that this is a
mere figure of speech. . . . To perceive another's
thought, we must construct his thought within our
selves; this thought is our own and is strictly original
with us. At the same time we owe it to the other; and
if it had not originated with him, it would probably not
have originated with us. But what has the other done?
This: by an entirely mysterious world-order, the
speaker is enabled to produce a series of signs which
are totally unlike (the) thought, but which, by virtue
of the same mysterious order, act as a series of incite
ments upon the hearer, so that he constructs within
himself the corresponding mental state. The act of the
speaker consists in availing himself of the proper in
citements. The act of the hearer is immediately only
the reaction of the soul against the incitement All
communion between finite minds is of this sort. . . .
Probably no reflecting person would deny this con
clusion, but when we say that what is thus true of per-
• B. P. Bowne: Metaphysics, pp. 407-10; Cf. alio Lotze: Logik, pp.
308, 3*6-27, etc.
H2 The Psychic World
ception of another's thought is equally true of the
perception of the outer world in general, many minds
will be disposed to question, and not a few will deny it
outright. Yet there is no alternative but to affirm that
to perceive the universe we must construct it in thought,
and that our knowledge of the universe is but the un
folding of the mind's inner nature. By describing
the mind as a waxen tablet, and things as impressing
themselves upon
it,
we seem to get some insight until
we think to ask ourselves where this extended tablet
is,
and how things stamp themselves on
it,
and how the
perceptive act would be explained even
if
they did. . .
."
The immediate antecedents of sensation and percep
tion are
a
series of nervous changes
in
the brain. What
ever we know of the outer world
is
revealed only in and
through these nervous changes. But these are totally
unlike the objects assumed to exist as their causes. If
we might conceive the mind as
in
the light, and
in
di
rect contact with its objects, the imagination at least
would be comforted
;
but when we conceive the mind as
coming
in
contact with the outer world only
in
the dark
chamber of the skull, and then not
in
contact with the
objects perceived, but only with
a
series of nerve-
changes of which, moreover,
it
knows nothing,
it
is
plain that the object
is
a
long way off. All talk of pic
tures, impressions, etc., ceases because of the lack of all
the conditions necessary to give such figures any mean
ing.
It
is
not even clear that we shall ever find our way
out of the darkness into the world of light and reality
again. We began with complete trust
in
physics and the
senses, and are forthwith led away from the object into
a
nervous labyrinth, where the object
is
entirely dis
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 1 1
3
placed by a set of nervous changes which are totally un
like anything but themselves. Finally, we land in the
dark chamber of the skull. The object has gone com
pletely, and knowledge has not yet appeared. Nervous
signs are the raw material of all knowledge of the
outer world, according to the most decided realism. But
in order to pass beyond these signs into a knowledge of
the outer world, we must posit an Interpreter who shall
read back these signs into their objective meanings. But
that Interpreter, again, must implicitly contain the
meaning of the Universe within itself, and these signs
are really but excitations which cause the soul to un
fold what is within itself. Inasmuch as by common con
sent the soul communicates with the outer world only
through these signs, and never comes nearer to the ob
ject than such signs can bring
it,
it
follows that the prin
ciples of interpretation must be
in
the mind itself, and
that the resulting construction
is
primarily only an ex
pression of the mind's own nature. All reaction
is
of
this sort
;
it
expresses the nature of the reacting agent,
and knowledge comes under the same head. This fact
makes
it
necessary for us either to admit
a
preestab-
lished harmony between the laws of nature and the
laws of thought, or else to allow that the objects of
perception, the universe as
it
appears, are purely phe
nomenal—being but the way
in
which the mind reacts
against the ground of sensations.
A certain working dualism must, therefore, be
granted—no matter what view of the universe one may
ultimately hold. This,
it
would seem, cannot be escaped.
It
is
to be understood, of course, that the above re
fers only to normal methods of perception, and normal
methods of communication between living minds and
ii4 The Psychic World
takes no cognizance of supernormal methods, such as
telepathy, on the one hand, and clairvoyance, on the
other. In the former, we seem to have direct communi
cation of thought, independent of the recognized chan
nels of sense ; and in the latter, direct perception of the
outer world, likewise independent of the senses.
Whether or no the material brain cooperates in these
processes we do not know; they may be functions of
the astral senses—that
is,
the sense-organs of the astral
body—or they may be purely mental or psychic, as
Myers believed. These are problems which remain as
yet absolutely unsolved.
It
will not be necessary, for our present purposes, to
deal with general biological or psychological problems,
or of the evolution of mind, self-consciousness, speech,
etc.—though much of considerable interest could be
said
in
this connection, bearing upon the matters
in
hand. Here,
it
need only be pointed out that the gen
eral physiological objection to mind existing as "an
independent variable
in
the world," apart from brain
activity, has been met, theoretically,
by
William James's
"transmissive theory" of consciousness (advanced
in
his Human Immortality), in which he showed that the
alternate possibility
is
always open to us—the brain
being, on this view, an organ for the transmission
rather than the creation of thought; and
by
Dr. Wil
liam McDougall's contention that the meaning of
thought probably has no physiological correlate (Body
and Mind)
.
These alternatives leave the field open, so
to say, permitting the question to be settled by fact. If
facts can be produced, showing that consciousness does
indeed exist apart from brain-activity, then all physi
ological and metaphysical theories will have to be ad
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 1 1
5
justed to them in consequence. It is merely a question of
evidence, of fact, as to whether or not the spirit of man
continues to live after the destruction of the physical
brain. For our present purposes, as we have said, we
shall assume that this is a fact ; also that communication
with it has been established. The actual problems and
difficulties involved in the process must now be con
sidered. We have already seen the roundabout and
symbolic method by which communication between
minds is carried on, and we know that this normal
process is frequently subjected to difficulties and impedi
ments, even in this life. We may now turn our atten
tion, with these facts in mind, to the possible difficulties
which may exist during the process of spirit communica
tion. -
I began this chapter by stating that, in the opinion of
both Dr. Hodgson and Dr. Hyslop, the communicator,
during the actual process of communicating, was in a
more or less dreamy, hazy or abnormal mental state.
This would not, of course, imply that these individuals
were necessarily in this condition all the time —during
their normal lives, so to say. They might be perfectly
clear and rational at all times, save during the actual
process of communication. Only on such occasions
would they tend to lapse into this peculiar mental con
dition; and there are, certainly, many analogies which
might be drawn in this connection.
To take one, of a simple and obvious character. A
man is being swept along the middle of a river, and in
imminent danger of drowning. He spies a floating log,
and clings to it for dear life. As he is thus being carried
down-stream, his whole mental energy would be con
centrated upon the simple process of hanging on to that
1 1 6 The Psychic World
log. Certainly his mind would be in no condition to
evolve some new scientific truth or indulge in meta
physical theories. However fine a mind he might have,
at other times, he would be in no fit state to display it
now. He would be intent, merely, upon clinging to that
life-saving log.
Similarly, if the mere process of governing and con
trolling the medium's organism be exhausting and con
fusing (as we have been told is the case), there is
every reason to believe that this would more or less
absorb the mental energies of the communicator, and
render his mind incapable, for the time being, of re
membering past details, responding to rapid-fire ques
tions, or bringing into evidence the whole force of his
personality. He would tend to become hazy and con
fused, to drift away from the organism, lose control of
it,
and finally, perhaps to leave
it
altogether for the
time being,
in
order to collect his thoughts and gather
his mental energies together, for
a
further attempt at
communicating.
Let us recall Dr. Hodgson's description of what
actually happens (or
is
alleged to happen) during the
production of automatic writing through Mrs. Piper's
hand. He says
:
"The consciousness controlling the hand holds
a
con
versation with the sitter by writing, but, so far as
I
have been able to ascertain,
it
is
not directly conscious
of
the act
of
writing. The writing seems to be an auto
matic registering which
is
produced by the nervous
mechanism of Mrs. Piper's organism, and of which the
consciousness communicating
is
as little aware as the
ordinary person talking into
a
phonographic mouth
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 117
piece is aware of the registration on the revolving cyl
inder. . . . The statements of the communicators as to
what occurs on the physical side may be put in brief
general terms as follows. We all have bodies composed
of 'luminiferous ether' enclosed in our flesh and blood
bodies. The relation of Mrs. Piper's ethereal body to
the ethereal world, in which the communicators claim
to dwell, is such that a special store of peculiar energy
is accumulated in connection with her organism, and
this appears to them as a 'light.' Mrs. Piper's ethereal
body is removed by them, and her ordinary body ap
pears as a shell filled with this 'light.' Several 'commu
nicators' may in turn be in contact with this 'light' at
the same time. ... If the communicator gets into con
tact with the 'light' and thinks his thoughts, they tend
to be reproduced by movements in Mrs. Piper's organ
ism. Upon the amount and brightness of this 'light,' —.
caeteris paribus, the communications depend. When
Mrs. Piper is in ill health, the 'light' is feebler, and the
communications tend to be less coherent. It also gets
used-up during a sitting, and when it gets dim there is
a tendency to incoherence even in otherwise clear com
municators. In all cases, coming into contact with the
'light' tends to produce bewilderment, and if the con- \
tact is continued too long, or the 'light' becomes very
dim, the consciousness of the communicator tends to
lapse completely." *
The communicator would tend, in other words, to
lose his grasp on the 'light,' and drift away—only re
gaining his normal faculties after a period of partial or
complete rest ; he would then be enabled to return, com
municate clearly again for a certain time, and then
'Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XIII, pp. 398, 400.
1 1 8 The Psychic World
undergo the same process of gradual confusion, until
he once more lost contact with the organism and drifted
away, as before. This might be repeated several times
during a single sitting.
Were some such process as this actually undergone,
during trance communications, (and it is stated that
such is the case), it would enable us to understand,
very largely, the confusion and haziness so often noted
during these communications. It must always be re
membered that, on any theory, the shock of death must
be the greatest shock which the living consciousness can
ever undergo. It is suddenly wrenched from its physical
moorings, and plunged into a new environment, a new
world—which, on any theory, must be a mental world,
as opposed to the physical world, in which we now live.
A simple analogy will help make this clear. Suppose
you are traveling in a railway train. The train is
wrecked, and you are almost killed —being knocked un
conscious in the collision. As you gradually recovered
consciousness, your vision would at first be blurred and
uncertain; you would "see men as trees walking."
These dim figures would gradually resolve themselves
into recognized entities. Similarly, you would hear
vague and meaningless sounds; these would, in turn,
ultimately become intelligible words and sentences,
finally reaching your consciousness as meaningful ex
pressions. As you slowly regained possession of your
faculties, the outer world would once more take-on its
normal aspect, and you would become oriented to your
surroundings; your memory of past events would grad
ually return. A few moments and (provided you had
not been seriously injured in the mishap) you would be
yourself once again.
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 119
At death, very much the same experience must be
undergone. But, on recovering, you would find your
self in a new world, instead of the one familiar to you.
Everything would at first appear strange and somehow
different to you. If the death had been sudden, this in
itial shock would certainly be all the greater —and it
has frequently been stated that suicides suffer from a
prolonged period of mental confusion before becoming
adjusted to their new environment. Further, the mind
would doubtless tend to suffer from delusions and
hallucinations —owing to the greater creative power of
thought —until these were realized and overcome. All
this was fully perceived by the Tibetans hundreds of
years ago, and was dealt with very fully in their Book
of the Dead. Unlike the Egyptian work (of the same
title) it is a most suggestive psychological treatise. For
in it we read that the dying man is constantly warned
that he will be liable to illusions of all kinds, and that
he must rid his mind of these, so that he may pass
through the Vale of Illusion, and emerge into the Clear
Light of the Void. Once there, he will realize that what
he has seen were merely thought-forms, having no sub
stantial reality —being but the creations of his own
mind. The analogy of dreams must strike every one
reading these accounts ; in fact the next sphere has been
described by one eminent authority as a "rationalized
dream world."
Dr. Hodgson, in his Second Report on Mrs. Piper
(1898) said:
"That persons just deceased should be extremely
confused and unable to communicate directly, or even
at all, seems perfectly natural after the shock and
120 The Psychic World
wrench of death. Thus, in the case of Hart, he was un
able to write the second day after his death. In another
case, a friend of mine, whom I will call D., wrote, with
what appeared to be much difficulty, his name and the
words, 'I am all right now, Adieu,' within two or three
days after his death. In another case, F., a near rela
tive of Madame Elisa, was unable to write on the
morning after his death. On the second day after, when
a stranger was present with me for a sitting, he wrote
two or three sentences, saying, 'I am too weak to artic
ulate clearly,' and not many days later he wrote fairly
well and clearly, and dictated also to Madame Elisa, as
amanuensis, an account of his feelings at finding him
self in his new surroundings. Both D. and F. became
very clear in a short time. D. communicated later on
frequently, both by writing and speech."
From any point-of-view, it must be obvious that, in
view of the relative rarity of evidential messages, the
difficulties in the way of their reception must be great.
It is quite possible that every deceased person is not a
good communicator; it may be that the ability to send
clear messages is just as rare as the ability to receive
them on this side. Indeed, there is a certain amount of
direct evidence that such is the case—some individuals
constituting good communicators, while others would
always be relatively bad ones. Precisely what factors
would go to make a good or bad communicator we do
not know —any more than we know the essential con
stituents of mediumship. Probably very much the same
essentials which would be required in the one case
would be required in the other also. It is highly prob
able that health, morals, mentality, etc., have little or
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 121
nothing to do with the matter ; but that this ability con
sists primarily in some vital factor, just as it does in the
case of mediumship. Perhaps some light may be thrown
upon this in our subsequent discussion.
There is considerable evidence, in any case, that
those on the other side do not come into direct contact
with our material world, any more than we do with
theirs. We can glimpse a spiritual world only occasion
ally, fitfully, through the instrumentality of specially
gifted seers; and it is possible that something corre
sponding to mediumship may be required by those on
the other side to enable them to come into any sort of
contact with our world, and communicate with it.
Even when they do, it would seem probable that the
conditions are so different, on the other side, that com
municating intelligences would find it difficult, if not
impossible, to describe things to us as they are, or to
make us understand and appreciate them. Were a deaf
man to try and explain the physical world to a blind
man, or the blind man the nature of sound to a deaf
man, each would find his task next to an impossibility.
He would have no language with which to express his
thoughts and ideas: and, however hard he might try,
it is improbable that the other would ever have any
real conception of that which the former described. It
is probably the same in this case. When spirits under
take to explain to us the nature of the next life, and
what it is that goes on there, they have no language
with which they can express, their thoughts, and thus we
can never get a clear idea of what their world may be
like. Again and again this is stated to be the case by
those communicating, and it is certainly possible that
such is the case.
122 The Psychic World
Still another difficulty, in communicating, would be
the fact that the nervous mechanism of the medium,
which the spirit supposedly controls, more or less indi
rectly, is unfamiliar to the operating intelligence; and
he or she has to learn to use it before any clear and sys
tematic messages can be sent or received. We find no
difficulty (normally) in operating our own nervous
mechanism, when in health, because it is educated to
our needs, and we understand it thoroughly; but it must
be remembered that, even in this life, such education is
a long and tedious process, and that very little is re
quired to bring about a condition which prevents the
proper operation of that nervous mechanism. How
much greater must be the difficulty experienced by a
spirit in working, or operating, the nervous mechanism
of another organism entirely! Little habits, checks, in
hibitions, etc., to which we are unaccustomed, would be
noted, and would prevent the free expression of
thought through the organism being manipulated.
Some etheric intermediary doubtless exists between
the mind and the brain, and this would require ma
nipulation, consciously or unconsciously, also. It seems
highly probable that the flow of thought is far more
automatic and spontaneous with them than it is with
us, and that the function of the physical brain may be
largely that of a checking or inhibiting organ. Suggestive
analogies here are those cases in which men, while
drowning, have lived through years of their lives in a
few seconds —seeming to show that, when the mind is
partially detached from the control of the brain, it
can think with extreme celerity. And there is consider
able evidence tending to show that these spontaneous
or automatic thoughts and ideas all tend to be regis
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 123
tered on this side —being unconsciously registered by
and through the medium's organism, and expressed in
automatic speech or writing here.
It must also be remembered that the communicating
entity does not only have to deal with the physical or
ganism of the medium, but also with his subconscious
mind, which keeps intruding itself into the stream of
thought projected by the communicator (coloring and
influencing it) and also, in all probability, with the
telepathically conveyed thoughts of the sitter which,
consciously or unconsciously, are being introjected into
the mental stream. It has been stated, indeed, that one
of the chief functions of "Rector," Mrs. Piper's main
Control, was to shut-off this telepathic influence from
the sitter, so as to allow a more unimpeded flow of
thought from the communicator, without this mental
interference from the living mind. All sorts of subtle in
fluences would thus be brought to bear, during the proc
ess, of which we can have only the faintest conception,
but all of which would tend to complicate the results
and render the actual process of communication more
difficult.
Certain it is that the subconscious mind of the me
dium plays a part in all these communications—no mat
ter how direct they may appear to be, and it seems
highly probable that all such messages come more or
less directly through the subconscious mind of the me
dium, just as they must be expressed through the bodily
organism of the medium. And, just as there are phys
iological traits, habits, tricks, inhibitions, etc., con
nected with the functioning of the nervous mechanism,
so there must also be trends of thought, memories,
associations, mental habits, etc., connected with and
124 The Psychic World
constituting an integral part of the mentality of the
medium, which would tend to be incorporated in the
messages —just as our dream-consciousness would
pick-up a sense impression, resulting from some ex
ternal stimulus, and weave it into a dream.
This was Professor William James's theory of com
munication : that a series of "dips down," so to say, were
made by the external intelligence, imparting super
normal information, making contacts at a series of
"points," which were immediately gathered-in by the
medium's subconscious mind, and elaborated and dram
atized therein—so that, while we should have, in
truth, a series of actual communications, these com
munications would not be so consecutive and systematic
as generally supposed, but on the other hand relatively
disjointed and fragmentary. And it must be said that
this is the appearance of the facts, in a large number of
cases, where the fragmentary nature of the messages
is most marked, and is interspersed by a large amount
of chaff, which is obviously of subconscious origin.
• William James's Theory—graphically illustrated.
X = Potential Communicator (spirit entity) : A, B, C, D = Points of
"contact" with the subconscious mind of the Medium, E, F,
which is functioning, in time, in the direction of the arrows. At
the points A, B, C, D, etc., supernormal information is imparted.
Between A and B, B and C, etc., however, the subconscious mind of
the medium continues to function, picking-up the supernormal knowl
edge imparted at A, B, etc., and elaborating and dramatizing it—aa
we do every night in our dreams.
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 125
Were some such process as this indeed involved, it
would enable us to understand, at least in part, the
curious fusion of genuine supernormal knowledge and
subconscious chaff which we see in so many of these
communications.
Shortly before his death, Dr. Hyslop arrived at the
conclusion that a very important difficulty consisted in
the nature or structure of the mind which was said to
be communicating at the time. Thus, we know that cer
tain types are good visualizers, others poor; some are
what are known as natural audiles, etc. Now, if the
communicator be a good visualizer, and the medium a
poor one, there might be great difficulty in conveying
messages of the visual type through such a mind. The
communicator might attempt to give his message in
pictorial form—what is known as the pictographic
method. These the medium might be enabled to sense
only very imperfectly or not at all; and, if seen in part,
might be very fragmentary and hazy, and their symbol
ism might be quite misunderstood and thus misinter
preted. Erroneous statements might thus be made by
the medium, while the communicator himself might
have been quite clear as to what was meant, and may
have given the message correctly.
The alleged unusual or abnormal mental state of the
communicator, at the time of communicating, is how
ever the most fundamental of all difficulties, and doubt
less the one most responsible for the confusions and
errors so often noted. A very good illustration of this
is to be found in an incident recorded by Dr. Hodgson,
occurring in one of Mrs. Piper's sittings. Here the
communicator told a number of facts (supposedly)
relating to his past life. Inquiry showed that these
126 The Psychic World
statements were entirely false—but it turned out that
he had made the same statements in the delirium of
death! Hence it would appear that very much the same
sort of mental confusion which had supervened in the
former case had supervened in the latter also; and that
there was a certain resemblance between the state of
the man's mind during his last delirium and the con
fusion attendant upon his efforts at communication. Dr.
Hyslop says, in this connection :
"It is especially noticeable in certain forms of com
munication of the 'possession' type that the last scenes
of the deceased are acted over again in their first at
tempts to control or communicate. The mental con
fusion relevant to the death of my father was apparent
in his first attempt to communicate through Mrs. Piper,
and when I recalled this period of his dying experience,
this confusion was repeated in a remarkable manner,
with several evidential features in the messages. Twice
an uncle lost the sense of personal identity in the at
tempt to communicate. His communications were in
fact so confused that it was two years before he became
at all clear in his efforts. He had died as the result of a
sudden accident. Once my father, after mentioning the
illness of my living sister, and her name, lost his per
sonal identity long enough to confuse incidents relating
to himself and his early life with those that applied to
my sister and not to himself. The interesting feature of
the incident was that, having failed to complete his mes
sages a few minutes previously, when he came back the
second time to try it again, Rector, the control, warned
me that he was a little confused, but that what he
wanted to tell me certainly related to my sister Lida.
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 127
Then came the message, claiming experiences for him
self, when living, that were verifiable as my sister's. On
any theory of the facts, a confused state of mind is the
only explanation of them, and when associated with
incidents of a supernormal and evidential character
they afford reasonable attestation of the hypothesis
here suggested."
We may well suppose, therefore, that the process of
coming back produces an effect similar to the amnesia
which so often accompanies a short or sudden interfer
ence with the normal stream of consciousness. The ef
fect seems to be the same as that of certain kinds of
dissociation, and this is the disturbance of memory
which makes it difficult or impossible to recall in one
mental state the events which have been experienced in
another. The various disturbances of the normal con
sciousness or personality in the living offer clear illus
trations of the psychological phenomena which are
advanced as evidence of spirits when these phenomena
are supernormally produced.
But there are other factors also which might tend to
produce confusion in the mind of the communicator, at
the time. One of these is the more or less unusual con
dition of the medium, mental and physical. The medium
through whom the messages purport to come is in a
trance condition, and when not in a trance the condi
tion is one which is not usual, and perhaps in the broad
sense may be called abnormal, though not technically
so. This condition offers many obstacles to perfect trans
mission of messages. It is illustrated in many cases of
somnambulism, in which the stream of consciousness
goes on uninhibited, and when this is suppressed, as it
128 The Psychic World
is in deep trances, the difficulty is to get systematic com
munications through it. Add to this the frequent sim
ilar condition of the communicator, according to the
hypothesis, and we can well imagine what causes trivial
ity and confusion. We should have here a condition
totally unlike that which we are accustomed to associate
with the transmission of intelligent messages, telepath-
ically or otherwise. The mental limitations of the me
dium would similarly have considerable influence.
This modifying influence of the medium's mind must
never be lost sight of, as it is an important factor, and
accounts for words, expressions, etc., which may be em
ployed, but which would be quite uncharacteristic of the
alleged communicator, were he normally active, and
freely communicating in a state of clear consciousness.
Characteristic phrases employed by the medium fre
quently crop up, and are sometimes repudiated by the
communicator afterwards, as not expressing his
thoughtl Thus, Dr. Hyslop's father invariably re
ferred to Sunday as Sabbath, and never anything else,
but the word Sunday was twice put in his mouth by
G. P.—who was communicating for him at the time —
to Mr. Hyslop's evident annoyance! Similarly, in the
case of Mrs. Chenoweth, a communicator once re
marked: "I don't like those 'whys'; they are hers, not
mine."
It must also be remembered that, even in normal life,
many people suffer from lapses of memory, temporary
confusion, etc., just as these communicators apparently
do while communicating. Many people are easily con
fused by sudden questions, or interruptions, which tend
to interfere with the easy flow of unbroken thought.
When such occurs, their whole chain of thinking is
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 129
broken and disrupted. If the flow of thought, with
those on the other side, is more fluent and automatic
than it is here —as certain facts would seem to indicate
—it is quite understandable how a series of rapid-fire
questions aimed at the communicator might so confuse
him as to render any rational replies and clear thinking
on his part temporarily impossible. We find instances
of this very thing occurring among living individuals.
In cases of abstraction, day-dreaming, etc., we see
how the mind frequently flows along in a trivial and
erratic manner, when the central control has been re
moved, and the current of thought is allowed to take its
own spontaneous course. Sensory experiences, seem
ingly trivial incidents, etc., frequently come to the fore,
for no apparent reason, since they have been com
pletely forgotten by the conscious mind, and represent
totally unimportant events. They are events, neverthe
less, which have somehow made an indelible impression
upon the subconscious mind, and. which might easily
come to the fore, when the subject began to lapse into
an unusual mental condition. These facts, often trivial
in the last degree, might then be communicated perhaps
quite without the knowledge of the communicator, and
be repudiated by the sitter as having no real value, and
quite uncharacteristic of the person said to be com
municating at the time. Mr. Bird and I both published
instances of this character, drawn from our own mem
ories, in the Journal S.P.R., Sept., 1929.*
Finally, it must be remembered that the medium
is,
during these communications,
in
a
trance state, or some
other peculiar mental condition; and that the process
involved
is
probably some indirect telepathic method,
•
See note at end of Chapter.
130 The Psychic World
with which the communicator is not familiar. Taking
all these difficulties into consideration, therefore, it
cannot be wondered at that the messages so often re
ceived are fragmentary and confused; it would be
miraculous, indeed, if they were not ! Were difficulties
such as those above outlined actually operative, we can
only wonder that some of the communicators have done
as well as they have !
In the Journal S.P.R., May, 1925, Miss G. Tubby
printed an account of the various attempts made by Dr.
Hyslop, during the last weeks of his life, to pronounce
certain words, and his failure to do so. His memory was
perfectly clear at the time, but his physical organism
would not respond to his thought. Thus, when trying to
say Smead, he would say instead, Sithin; instead of Car-
rington, Sitheneer; instead of Friend, Presen; instead
of Hodgson, Chonson, Choneer or Hodgman; instead
of Huxley, Shupney; instead of Myers, Maynard; in
stead of endowment, sivener, etc. Commenting on this
"Dr. Hyslop" said: "No one could understand what I
meant. And this was my own organism. I wasn't guess
ing at all, not for one instant My mind was per
fectly clear. . . . What if I had been a poor medium?
some outside influence trying to express the same thing
through another's organism might have fared the same
way. . . . Tell them that, tell them that ! It's a pretty
illustration."
As Miss Tubby remarked at the time: "This should
throw a flood of light on mediumship and proper name-
getting."
The inability of the organism to express thought is
therefore a most important factor to be taken into con
sideration, as well as the mental state of the communi
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 131
cator at the time. Both are essential aspects of this
problem, and both of them must be taken into account.
Any analogies which may be drawn here, between the
seeming difficulties of communication and the difficulties
of expressing thought, through a living organism, can
not fail to be of interest; and a number of striking and
suggestive parallels may be drawn in this way. With
this in mind, I made a search through the literature of
abnormal psychology, and propose to epitomize here
some interesting analogies which have been unearthed
in consequence. These all bear more or less directly
upon the problem in hand. In doing so, I wish to men
tion especially Dr. C. S. Bluemel's Stammering, and
Cognate Defects of Speech, in two volumes, from
which several of the following passages have been
drawn.
As Ribot has appropriately remarked, we have
memories rather than memory. We have, as it were, a
number of separate and individual minds—an auditory
mind, a visual mind, a kinesthetic mind, a tactile mind,
and so on. A person possessed of all the different senses
is able to experience sensations of every type. It does
not follow, however, that he can think equally well in
all types of mental imagery. One man is eye-minded,
thinking in terms of sight; another is ear-minded, think
ing in terms of sound; still another is motor-minded,
thinking in terms of muscular movements. The eye-
minded man is called a visile, visual, or visionaire; the
ear-minded man, an audile, an auditaire, or auditeur;
the motor-minded man is a motile, moteur, or motaire.
There is also a type called the tactile. This type is
found frequently among the blind. One who can recall
one type of image readily may find it very difficult to
1
3 2 The Psychic World
recall an image of another type. Rarely, words are re
membered in visual or kinesthetic terms. The average
person is of the audito-moteur type. "Muscular move
ments are controlled indirectly. . . . Whatever views be
held concerning the fiat
—the decision to act—the ad
mission must still be made that the mental imagery
alone determines the nature of the performance. . . ."
Auditory imagery is an important factor —though
again never the sole factor —in mimetic performances.
Frequently the ear-minded person can give faithful im
itations of a brogue or a dialect, or he may be able to
imitate the timbre of another person's voice.
"A lesion in the angular gyrus annihilates the visual
images of printed and written words. When the in
jury is profound, the patient is unable to recognize
words that he sees, and the resulting condition is one
of word-blindness,* in addition to the visual verbal
amnesia and agraphia (inability to write) ... In agra
phia while attempting to write, the patient may produce
a jumble of letters. This perversion of the faculty of
writing is called paragraphia."
We now come to the consideration of cerebral dis
turbances that more directly affect the faculty of oral
speech. Aphemia is a disturbance of speech due to lesion
of the purely exterior motor mechanism. It usually
manifests itself in complete mutism. There
is,
how
ever, no disturbance of internal language—either vis
ual, auditory or kinesthetic. There
is
no word-deafness
or word-blindness.
Motor aphasia
is
due to the total or partial oblitera
tion of the kinesthetic images or articulatory move-
• Word-blindness
is
sometimes called alexia.
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 133
ments. It is caused by lesion of the posterior part of
the third frontal convolution of the left hemisphere.
In this form of aphasia, it is to be noted that articula
tion is somewhat labored and spasmodic; but there is
no similitude between the sounds uttered and those ap
propriate for the expression of the thought. The
speaker can tell at once whether or not the sounds ut
tered are appropriate. The amount of amnesia that
exists with a lesion in the auditory or kinesthetic mem
ory-center varies with the prominence of the different
types of imagery in verbal thought.
A peculiar condition known as optic aphasia is pro
duced by interruption of the fibers that convey stimuli
from the visual memory-center to the verbal memory-
centers. There is no object-blindness. The patient
recognizes objects with facility; but the stimulus cannot
pass to the verbal memory-centers ; hence the patient is
unable to recall the names of objects that he sees.
In echolalia, the patient reechoes almost every word
that he hears, frequently attaching no meaning to it.
In the case of a woman seen at the Saltpetriere by
Bateman, the mimetic tendency was very strong. She
even reproduced foreign words with which she had
never been familiar !
One patient could pronounce the word "cow" so long
as he held his eye fixed upon the written letters; but the
moment he shut his book it passed out of his memory
and could not be recalled, although he recollected its
initial, and could refer to it when necessary. He could
not even recollect his own name unless he looked out
for
it,
nor the name of any person of his acquaintance
;
but he was never at
a
loss for the initial of the word he
wished to employ. [There
is
obviously an interesting
134 The Psychic World
analogy here with those cases in which mediums are en
abled to secure an initial of a proper name, but no
more.]
Lichtheim records a case,* in which the patient was
able to read fluently, although he was aphasic for spon
taneous speech. The patient could repeat quite ac
curately.
"In the case of the stammerer, inasmuch as his dif
ficulty is to produce the vowel, and is not to produce
voice per se, it is evident that his difficulty is to produce
the vowel-color, or vowel-quality. . . . The stammerer's
difficulty is transient auditory amnesia: he is unable to
recall the sound-image of the vowel that he wishes to
enunciate. . . . The stammerer is an 'audito-moteur.' He
relies for his speech-cues upon both kinesthetic and
auditory images. When he stammers in enunciating a
word, it is because there is complete failure of the audi
tory image. . . . Stammering resembles aphasia in its
mode or origin. Broadly, it may be stated that any
cause that induces aphasia can also produce stammer
ing. . . . Like aphasia, stammering often begins with a
period of complete unconsciousness. . . ."
In many cases of stammering, the impediment is in
large part due to confusion or inhibition of thought, t
Dr. de Fursac, in his Manual of Psychiatry, says :
"A recollection of an occurrence, once evoked, is
usually easily localized by us as to its position in the
past. The power of localization disappears in certain
psychoses. The patients cannot tell on what date or
• Brain, 1885.
t Speaking of inhibition in general, William James says: "Inhibition
is not an occasional accident; it is an essential and unremitting ele
ment of our cerebral life."
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 135
even in what year some fact occurred, an impression of
which they have, however, preserved."
Kraepelin, in his Clinical Psychiatry (p. 100), speaks
of cases observed by him in which there was a "want of
clearness in the ideas of time and place, with almost
complete collectedness."
It would be possible to extend this list of references
and suggestive analogies almost indefinitely; but
enough has been said, perhaps, to establish the main
point here made, viz., that there are interesting con
nections between abnormal mental states in the living,
and those peculiar conditions into which the mind of
man may also lapse post mortem, when temporarily
suffering from the effects of shock, confusion, exhaus
tion, or the diminution of that psychic energy upon
which clear-cut communications apparently depend.
And that, just as we have cases of inability to recall
names, dates, memories and events which should, the
oretically, be clearly and forever lodged in the mind of
the discarnate entity, so we have similar forgetfulness,
confusion, loss of identity, inability to express one's
thoughts, etc., on the part of living persons, whom we
know to exist, and who are certainly still in possession
of their physical brains, and living in a physical world
to which they are accustomed.
If, therefore, the human mind is so delicately poised
that slight physical, emotional or mental accidents tend
to upset
it,
to interfere with its proper functionings and
to prevent the free expression of normal thought,
it
seems only natural to suppose that, under novel and
difficult circumstances, while attempting to communi
cate through an organism unfamiliar to
it,
like causes
136 The Psychic World
should produce similar results; and, were this the case,
we should have, here, an explanation of the majority of
those mistakes and confusions which have so frequently
been noted in communications, seemingly emanating
from the spiritual world.
Note:
On the Uncertainties of Memory
In discussing the Margaret Veley case * M. Sudre
made the remark that "the spirits of the dead, who,
we are informed, are full of high thoughts, descend
to very low ones in calling back memories of their ter
restrial past." He cites, in support of this contention, a
number of more or less trivial communications of the
Margaret Veley personality. There is nothing unique
in this, and many instances of like nature might be
quoted. On the spiritistic theory, why should these
things be ?
Certain tentative suggestions may perhaps serve to
throw light upon this difficult and vexed question. At all
events, it may be of interest to see whether this may
not be the case.
The anti-spiritistic critic always demands that the
memory of an alleged communicator function with an
accuracy exactly proportional to the importance of the
material which is being remembered. It is my personal
experience that memory does not behave in this way at
all. I find a conspicuous tendency to retain various dis
connected, trivial, meaningless incidents, while losing
others of the same temporal period whose importance
under any conceivable scale of measurement must have
'Proceedings S.P.R., 38, pp. 281-374.
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 137
been much greater. A few examples from my own ex
perience will illustrate this. Take, e.g., the following.
I was about five years of age. Some athletic events
for children had been arranged on the sands near
Gorey, Jersey, where we were then living. I was
running a race with another little boy about my own age.
I accidentally put my foot into a hole in the sand, fell
on my face, and of course lost the race; but afterwards
I boasted to my father that I would have won
it,
if
I
had not caught my foot! Naturally, the things
I
re
member from this period of my life are relatively few;
but among them this episode stands out as
a
most vivid
memory-picture. There seems no reason why
it
should
do so;
it
was of no particular importance;
it
had no
especial emotional value, since
I
was not immensely dis
tressed over it. Why
it
should assume rank as
a
mile
stone of memory baffles me completely.
It will be understood that, when
I
speak of this epi
sode as constituting today
a
vivid memory-picture,
I
mean just that. Plenty of things happened to me around
my sixth year, of which
I
can now give some account.
This one
is
not on any such flimsy basis. The complete
sensorial picture of my fall, and my boasting to my fa
ther remains with me.
I
do not merely remember that
I
did this
:
/
remember doing it.
It
is
living memories of
this sort with which
I
here deal, memories which exist
in
the form of detailed pictures constituting re-pres
entations of the past acts.
Another picture of this sort, from approximately my
twelfth year. We were then living
in
Minneapolis, and
after school my boy chum and
I
used to meet regu
larly.
It
is
self-evident that of most of our specific meet
ings
I
retain no memory whatever. Of one such
138 The Psychic World
occasion, however, on which we encountered one an
other, running along Highland Avenue, and on which
we shouted and waved our arms at each other, I retain
the vivid type of memory-picture of which I am
speaking.
Still another comes to me from about my sixteenth
year. I was engaged in a football match, and was
dribbling the ball, when a team-mate called out to me
to pass, as he was clear of his field. This situation must
have occurred repeatedly in such games —it is a com
monplace in any game in which one confronts the choice
between dribbling the ball and passing it. Why does the
pictorial image of this particular occasion live on so
vividly in my memory?
These are but three incidents out of a dozen com
parable ones that I could mention, all of which are
among the very clearest of the memory-pictures that I
possess. Why? All are trivial incidents, meaningless in
themselves, disconnected from any context of impor
tance sufficiently commonplace to insure the fact that
many similar episodes which I have forgotten must have
occurred without even any outstanding emotional value
to account on this basis for their preservation. Never
theless they have been preserved: there they are. Why?
I think this question, with the answer that I have
left hanging in the air because I do not know in what
terms to give
it,
may have considerable bearing upon
one of the major difficulties of the spiritistic hypothesis
as an explanation for the conventional communication
matter with which psychic research deals. For
if
it
be
true (as both Hodgson and Hyslop were inclined to be
lieve) that the process of communicating
is
a
most
difficult and confusing one, and that the flow of thought
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 139
becomes largely automatic at such times, then it seems
quite reasonable to suppose that incidents such as the
above might be automatically given and reproduced,
while far more important and self-identifying material
might fail to get through. In this connection, Hyslop
has said (Science and a Future Life, p. 335) :
"I do not say or imply that the past is not clearly
recallable in the normal state beyond, but that as time
elapses it seems that it cannot be recalled for 'communi
cation.' We can well understand, therefore, why this
recall involves a dream-like and delirious stream of
trivial incidents, which usually characterize the auto
matic action of our minds when the stress of attention
is removed and the current of thought has its own
spontaneous course."
I have elsewhere emphasized the fact that a drown
ing man clinging to a floating log for dear life would
hardly be in a good condition to discuss metaphysical
subtleties or evolve new scientific truths ! And it has
been contended that the communicator, during the
process of communicating, is in much the same situa
tion; he is clinging onto the "light" —the medium's
psycho-physical organism —and in danger every mo
ment of becoming confused and slipping away. The
process of thought, at such times, would certainly be
largely unconscious and automatic, and would strongly
tend to run in any grooves which might be established.
If certain important elements out of the personal back
ground tended not to come instantly and automatically
to mind, and certain other sporadic unimportant ones
tended to do so, we can easily understand that the same
thing might occur on the other side, and that many
140 The Psychic World
trivial and disconnected incidents might thereby be
communicated—perhaps without the communicator's
knowledge. The particular incidents which I have cited
from my own life—which are all of course unverifiable,
and which I surely hope are below the level of com
munication which I should send from the other side,
were I wholly conscious and in full control of the
process of transmission —might naturally and inevitably
flow through, in place of the things I should prefer to
send.
At such times of stress or crisis as I have pictured,
the functioning of the mind, living or dead, must cer
tainly be for the larger part unconscious and au
tomatic; and
if,
when communication from the other
side
is
attempted, these are the conditions under which
the communicator works, we can well understand that
these sporadic thoughts from among his long-standing
mental habits might tend to be automatically registered
and reproduced on our side. Under these circumstances
we can well see that many trivial and disconnected
in
cidents might be thus communicated—without the
knowledge of the communicator.
But
it
may be contended that, while all this
is
pos
sible,
it
is
nevertheless inconceivable that an individual
could forget important and significant incidents
in
his
life, while apparently conscious and wide-awake at the
time.
I
may perhaps cite another incident which has
some bearing upon this. Many years ago
I
induced my
sister-in-law to write out for me and seal-up
a
letter,
which was intended to be
a
post mortem test-message.
Some years later,
I
asked her whether she remembered
the contents of this letter. Not only had she forgotten
it
entirely, but she absolutely denied ever having writ
Psychology of "Spirit Communication" 141
ten any such letter at all ! Yet I have it in my possession
today, still sealed and intact !
If an incident such as this can be completely for
gotten, might not other less important incidents be for
gotten also? Might it not be peculiarly plausible to
imagine that such things as names and dates, whatever
their importance, might, in view of their unpictorial
character, fade into the background and be obscured
behind pictorial memories of the sort I have been de
scribing? And then, too, we must always remember
that what seems important to one person at a given
time might not seem half so important to another, or to
the same individual at a different time and under dif
ferent conditions; so that, of two persons knowing a
given item, one might vividly remember it and give it
a place of extreme importance, while the other would
do neither of these things. As Gellett Burgess once
remarked: "A woman remembereth an anniversary to
the day thereof." Yet mere man proverbially forgets
his anniversaries —to his great embarrassment—be
cause, try as he will to assign them the same impor
tance which they possess for the feminine mind, he
cannot make them assume this place in his mental life.
So, incidents which might appear trivial and silly to
us might have made a deep impression upon the alleged
communicator for no reason at all, or for none that he
himself could state, as I have tried to make clear in the
above examples. If these tend to come to the surface of
the mind, during the process of communication, and
tend to be automatically registered on this side by
virtue of that process, we have here I think an explana
tion of a common type of communication which has
puzzled psychical researchers.
VIII
Animal Psychism
There are many cases on record which seem to prove
that telepathic communication between animals fre
quently takes place, and that this may also occasionally
be noted between animals and human beings. Rider
Haggard, for example, reported a case which came
under his own notice, in which he apparently perceived
the apparition of his dog, Bob, at the very moment it
was killed by a railway train. (Journal S.P.R., October,
1904.) Numerous instances could be quoted, again, in
which animals have behaved in an extraordinary man
ner when taken to so-called haunted houses. They have
whined, cowered under articles of furniture, slunk away,
their hair has bristled with rage for no assignable
cause, etc. A number of such cases might be quoted,
which would constitute a collection of considerable in
terest. The object of the present chapter, however, is
not to touch upon these points, but rather to deal with
two seemingly neglected phases of the subject, namely,
hypnotizing animals, and animal tricks—meaning by
this various methods which have been devised to trans
fer information to animals in a manner undetected by
the onlookers. Let us consider these, briefly, in turn.
Hypnotizing Animals
So far as I can discover, very little has been written
upon this subject in the past, though it is a topic of
considerable interest. Carl Sextus, in his Hypnotism,
has a brief chapter on "Animal Hypnotism," and Dr.
14a
Animal Psychism 143
J. Milne Bramwell has offered a few speculations (in
his Hypnotism) as to the various nervous centers prob
ably involved or affected when animals feign death,
hibernate, etc. But the literature on the subject is very
scant, and I have been unable to find any account of the
methods employed by stage hypnotists, or any study of
the actual modus operandi involved.
It is generally known that music affects certain ani
mals, and even reptiles, in a curious manner. The Hindu
Fakirs make use of this in their exhibitions —charming
cobras during the actual performance. Turtles are said
to be influenced by the rhythmical beating of a tom-tom,
and so on. Very few of the higher creatures seem to be
seriously influenced by this means, however, and other
more direct methods are resorted to.
Many of the lower animals can be rendered totally
immovable merely by placing them on their backs.
Ducks, chickens, rabbits, etc., can be influenced in this
manner, and will stay put for some little time after
being placed in this position. Dogs and cats are far
more difficult to handle in this manner, though they
will remain still for several seconds as a rule. Even wild
birds such as owls, eagles, etc., will remain still when
suddenly turned over onto their backs, in this manner.
A slight tap on the top of the head will generally re
store them immediately, and they will spring up, full
of animation.
Chickens are readily influenced through the eye. An
old experiment, very well known, is to place a hen
with her head close to the ground and draw a chalk
line on the floor directly outwards from the tip of the
beak. The bird's eyes seemingly converge and it will
remain still for as long as may be desired. Or, the bird
144 The Psychic World
may be held by the feet (in one hand) and gradually
brought nearer and nearer the operator's face, keeping
the eyes fixed intently on the eyes of the bird through
out. At first it will cluck and flap its wings wildly; these
movements will gradually die-down, however, until it
becomes quite still. It may then be grasped by both
wings, with the other hand, and placed on its feet,
where it will usually remain quietly, in a roosting posi
tion. As soon as it is picked up again, it will complain
as loudly as before. This method is quite spectacular
and effective, when well done.
Small alligators, when placed on their backs, will
normally turn over instantly, showing great activity.
Contrary to general belief, these creatures are by no
means slow and sluggish, but on the contrary move with
extreme rapidity when after food or when frightened.
The feat of placing a small alligator on its back, and
causing it to remain there for some time, is due to a
trick device. Strong pressure is exerted on a certain spot
in the neck, which serves to paralyze the creature for
the time being. It then remains quite still until the
finger is drawn smartly along the under surface of the
body, when it will at once turn over onto its feet
again.
Large crocodiles and alligators are handled in a dif
ferent manner. The creature must first of all be caught !
This is not always as easy as it sounds, especially if the
alligator is a large one, as it has a powerful tail and
moves with lightning-like rapidity when attacking. The
safest method is to approach the creature from be
hind, and grasp the tail with the right hand, then im
mediately retreat a few paces, pulling the alligator
along the ground as you go. The left front foot should
Animal Psychism 145
then be grasped in the left hand and held securely. Held
in this manner the creature is helpless. The right foot
will not do. For some curious reason, the alligator is
unable to turn round when held by the left foot, where
as it can if held on the other side. Grasped in the man
ner described, it may safely be lifted onto the table
where the experiment is to be performed.
With a smaller and less powerful creature, the upper
and lower jaws may now be grasped, thumb on one
side and fingers on the other. The jaws are now pulled
apart by main force, the head and upper part of the
body being raised in the air for this purpose. Thus held,
the open throat becomes visible. Watching it closely,
the observer will note a certain physiological click take
place in that region. As soon as this occurs, the left
hand is immediately removed, the right hand still re
taining its hold on the sides of the upper jaw. The
alligator may now carefully be replaced on the table,
when it will be found that it will remain there quite
immobile, with its jaws wide open. This condition will
last for the greater part of a minute. During that in
terval the operator has time to place a live guinea-pig
or other small animal on its back, directly in front of
the creature's mouth, leave it there for a few seconds,
and again remove
it,
before the alligator returns to its
normal condition. As soon as
it
does so,
it
will move
and snap.
Larger and more powerful alligators cannot be
handled
in
this manner, and pressure must be exerted
on the sensitive spot on the side of the neck. This will
produce temporary paralysis, as before explained, and
the guinea-pig may be placed
in
front of its mouth, as
146 The Psychic World
in the last case. So long as the spell lasts, the alligator
will remain quite immobile.
When placing the guinea-pig in position, and in re
moving
it,
the operator must exercise the utmost cau
tion. So long as the alligator
is
under the influence,
the pupils of the eyes will remain narrowed, like
a
cat's, visible as narrow lenses. The instant the normal
condition is
reestablished, however, the pupils expand
to their normal dimensions. The operator watches the
pupils of the eyes while making all his movements, and
the moment he sees them begin to expand, he must
snatch his hand away instantly —otherwise the alliga
tor, and not he, will possess
it
!
Quickness of action and
keenness of perception are his only salvation. As an
added precaution,
it
is
advisable to pull back the two
front feet of the alligator, immediately the state
is
induced, so that
it
has to pull these into position before
it
can make
a
spring. When giving public performances,
the operator usually makes
a
rapid downward stroke
with his fingers over the creature's back, at the very
moment the eyes expand. This tends to restore the
alligator more rapidly, and at the same time gives the
impression that the hypnotic pass was the real cause of
the creature's return to
a
normal condition.
Performances of this kind with crocodiles and alliga
tors are always dangerous, involving serious risk to the
operator. They should never be attempted except under
the supervision of an expert.
Lions, tigers, etc., cannot be hypnotized or influ
enced, in the true sense of the term. They can be
soothed and quieted, but training must be depended
upon for the rest.
It
should always be remembered,
however, that wild animals of this type, "while they
Animal Psychism 147
can be trained, are never tamed," in the words of
Bostock, the famous animal trainer. The human eye
certainly has an effect upon them, and they are keenly
sensitive to human emotions, such as fear, etc. Nearly
all wild animals seem to sense these states by a species
of telepathy. It must be remembered, also, that there
is a natural tendency on the part of all wild animals to
chase anything which is moving or running away from
them. The instant you run from an attacking animal,
your fate is sealed !
Coming now to snakes, the python seems to be the
one most easily handled. It is of course non-poisonous,
since it kills by crushing. These snakes must always be
carried in pairs, since a single male or female snake
will die very shortly.
When attempting to hypnotize a snake of this sort,
the operator removes it from the box and places it on
the table. In doing so, he coils it up into three or four
coils, intertwined as much as possible. The head of the
snake should if possible face him. He should then im
mediately place the fingers of one hand below the
snake's head and lift it a foot or more into the air,
holding the head steady and looking intently into the
eyes. The instant the snake moves its head away, it
should be caught again by placing the fingers under
the "chin," so to say, and held up as before. This im
mobilizes the upper part of the body, and the snake
will have less tendency to move the lower part of it. If
the head can be held stationary in this manner for a
minute or two, it will be found that the snake has a
tendency to remain rigid for some little time —since, as
soon as a snake of this type is absolutely motionless,
it will tend to remain so for a number of seconds. Dur
148 The Psychic World
ing this time, the operator has had time to place a live
rabbit an inch or so in front of its mouth, hold it there
for a few seconds, and then quickly remove it. The
instant the snake moves, however, the rabbit must be
snatched away, for the natural tendency of the snake
would be for it to strike, and the effect of the hypnotic
control would be visibly depreciated! A movement of
any part of the snake's body is invariably followed by
undulatory movements of the rest, and the whole
process would then have to be gone through again—
picking up the snake, coiling it on the table, and so on.
Often this has to be done several times before it be
comes still enough for the rabbit to be held before it a
few seconds, as above described.
If, when the snake is coiled on the table, the head is
not directly facing the operator (this cannot always be
exactly gauged) it should be allowed to rest flat on the
table, and the opened hand should be placed directly in
front of its face, covering the head like a sort of cup.
If the snake begins to move, the hand should be held
in the same relative position, being moved backwards,
so as to keep it an inch or so from the reptile's head.
No fear need be felt that the snake will bite, for even
if it does so no harm will result beyond a slight flesh
wound (treated immediately with mercurochrome).
Or, the fingers of the hand may be spread apart, and
the hand placed over the snake's head like an inverted
cup. The natural tendency of the snake would be to
stop as soon as it saw some obstacle in its path (such
as the grating formed by the fingers) and when once at
rest it usually remains so for half a minute or more
before moving again.
Hypnotic demonstrations with animals, reptiles,
Animal Psychism 149
birds, etc., are therefore based as a rule upon three
fundamental principles: bodily posture; fixation of the
eye; and pressure upon certain nerve-centers. It is only
natural that any state into which these creatures may
be thrown should be caused by physical and physio
logical, rather than psychological, means. Having
practically no mind to which to appeal, any form of
suggestion would be out of the question. The effect pro
duced
is,
however, very striking,
in
many cases, and
creates the impression in the mind of the audience
that the animal has actually been hypnotized, in the
strict sense of the term, and the effect
is
proportion
ately extraordinary.
Animal Tricks
That many animals possess what might be termed
a
sixth sense has long been believed. Wild animals, par
ticularly, are thought to show signs of this, and
it
is
even manifest occasionally
in
our domestic animals,
such as the dog and the horse. Bostock,
in
his book
Wild Animal Training, has given several examples of
this. One case
is
especially interesting —
in
which his
lions and tigers all refused to eat, one evening, and
some hours later,
a
fire broke out,
in
which
a
number of
them perished. William
J.
Long, again,
a
practical
naturalist, has cited several striking examples
in
his
writings, which seem to indicate that there
is
some form
of natural telepathy operative between wild animals,
by
means of which communication
is
established, and
the alarm given,
in
times of danger. Even our cats and
dogs show signs of possessing this higher sense, at
times. The cases of Rolf, the Mannheim dog, and Lola,
are well known, as are the talking horses of Elberfeld.
150 The Psychic World
It is possible, therefore, that some such form of subtle
communication exists, and we must certainly keep an
open mind with regard to its possibility.
At the same time, it is undoubtedly true that the vast
majority of performances given by animals are ex
plicable by purely natural means, and that such exhibi
tions are rendered possible because a clever code has
been worked-out, by the trainer, enabling the animal to
perform seemingly miraculous feats. Whenever an ani
mal is publicly exhibited, one may be fairly sure that
such is the case. Real telepathic communication—grant
ing that it exists —is not on tap in this manner. It is
always uncertain in its operation. I now propose to ex
plain just how these various code systems are employed,
and how they operate. In this I shall be as brief as pos
sible, merely indicating the modus operandi in each
case, without going into unnecessary details. My notes
for this have been gathered from various sources —
talks with practical animal trainers, circus men, etc., as
well as various articles upon the subject. I might par
ticularly mention, in this connection, a valuable article
by Charles H. Burlingame, published many years ago
in the Chicago Examiner ( 1899).
A typical performing animal would doubtless be the
dog. Cats are far harder to train; horses are unwieldy;
other animals do not as a rule possess the necessary
mentality and obedience. A certain psychological back
ground is necessarily postulated, in all animal training;
keen observation and perception, association, memory,
simple reasoning, etc. Without this, training of any sort
would be impossible. This is quite a different thing,
however, from assuming that the animal possesses
highly developed mathematical powers, or that it is
Animal Psychism 151
normally capable of complicated intellectual flights !
However, the simpler elements of mind are readily
shown to exist. That a dog can remember many words
is proved by the simplest training. For instance, when
we say to a dog "stand up," "sit down," "shake hands,"
etc., he soon learns very well what is meant, and re
members his lessons. He will follow the glance of his
master with surprising accuracy, and learn to interpret
his bodily movements. He is a splendid judge of dis
tance, and keenly sensitive to the emotions of any one
near him at the time.
Let us consider the simplest method of training first.
This is by means of the eye —the dog understanding
what he is to do by following the glance of his master.
In order to bring the dog, by means of eye-training, up
to the point where he will find or pick-up any desired
letter or number, from an alphabet or a series of num
bers, it is first of all necessary that he be taught how
to retrieve well. When he has learned this simple feat
—and all clever dogs learn it quickly —he should be
placed on a table with a row of cards in front of him.
The cards should be of heavy cardboard, and one
end of each card must 'be turned-up a little, in order
that the dog may grasp it easily with his teeth.
At first, only five or six cards should be used. Accus
tom the dog to sit quietly on the table, his head well
up and his eyes fixed on those of the trainer. In some
cases, this will be a relatively easy matter; in others,
it is more difficult, and will require patience on the part
of the dog's master. The natural tendency is for the
dog to turn his eyes away, after a few seconds; but
every time he does so he must be lightly punished, while
every time he keeps his eyes upon those of the trainer
152 The Psychic World
for some little time he should be rewarded. A scrap of
meat or biscuit will serve this purpose best.
When the dog has succeeded in sitting still, and
keeping his eyes fixed upon those of his trainer for some
seconds, the latter should then cast a rapid but force
ful look at one of the cards, without letting his eye-lids
droop, and stare with immovable eyes at the selected
card, at the same time giving a sharp word of com
mand, such as "find it," or "fetch it." Inasmuch as the
dog, in this respect, has a sharper eye than the man, he
sees at once on which card or article the eye of his
master is concentrated, and he accordingly picks it up.
When the dog has learned that a glance or look is a
sign to pick up the card, his training is nearly com
pleted. It is now only necessary to add more cards,
letters or numbers until words can be formed or exam
ples solved. It is hardly necessary to say that this
method is fairly obvious, and limited in its scope. It
constitutes, however, excellent preliminary training for
more complicated methods to follow later. Also, the
dog can be taught by this means to bark any given num
ber of times, in answer to questions. He merely con
tinues to bark until he receives the cue to stop —by a
slight change in his master's eyes or some slight facial
movement.
The mnemonic or memory system is far more com
plicated, and necessitates great patience on the part of
the trainer, coupled with considerable intelligence on
the part of the dog. It
is,
however, well-nigh inde-
tectable when well presented.
It
depends upon
a
set of
cue words, or positions of the trainer's body, or both.
The preliminary training —learning to sit still, to ob
Animal Psychism 153
serve his master, to retrieve, etc., must first of all be
taught, as in the last case.
The dog is seated on a large table, with a number
of lettered or numbered cards in front of him, at a dis
tance of about nine inches from his front paws. The
trainer takes up his position directly in front of the
first card, at a distance of about eighteen inches from
it. The cue words for the first three cards, let us say,
are "which," "where," and "quick."
When the trainer wishes one of the first three num
bers picked up, he first of all points to it with his
finger, to make the dog understand that in this position
lies the article which is to be picked up. At the same
time he speaks the first cue word "which." This is
repeated several times, in a sharp tone of voice. In
order to have a more perfect understanding with the
dog, he stands directly in front of the card. After the
dog has picked up this card several times, being re
warded each time, the trainer passes on to the second
card, giving the cue word "where." If the dog attempts
to pick up the first card, he must be reprimanded. As
soon as he picks up the right card, he is rewarded with
a small piece of meat. The trainer then passes on to
the third card, giving the cue word "quick." He should
then pass from one to the other, over and over again,
until the dog has learned these three cards perfectly,
so that every time he hears the word "where," for
example, he will invariably pick up the right card.
After the first preliminary trials, these cue words
may be incorporated into short sentences, such as,
"Which is the right card, Carlo? Which is it? Which
is it?" Or, "Quick, Carlo, give me number seven,
quick." After the first few trials, it will be found that
154 The Psychic World
it is no longer necessary to point to the numbers. The
dog will pick out the correct one when he hears the
proper cue word. This must be repeated over and over
again, using very few cards at first, and being careful
not to tire the dog during these early lessons. A more
substantial piece of meat and a little petting will soon
have the effect of making the dog look forward to his
lessons, instead of avoiding them.
More cards are now added to the first row, a suit
able cue word being given to each, such as "can," "tell,"
"now," and so on. The dog should be trained to pick
up these cards first of all, irrespective of the first ones
laid down; then the cards of the entire first row should
be given, jumping from one to the other. These should
be learned thoroughly before any more cards are added.
A few cards are now added to the second row. These
should be placed directly above those in the first row,
and about two inches from them. A string is tied
loosely about the neck of the dog, the other end being
held by the trainer, who should stand a few inches
further away from the table than in the last case. The
cue word for the first card is now given. The dog
naturally attempts to pick up the customary card, but
as he does so the trainer pulls the string, and the dog
is compelled to pass over the first row of cards, and
pick up the first card of the second row. He is suitably
rewarded. After a number of trials, the dog will begin
to understand that the distance of the trainer's body
has something to do with this. Centering attention upon
this first card, the trainer stands in position number i,
then in position number 2, giving the same cue word
each time. Every time the dog makes a mistake he is
punished, while every time he is correct he is rewarded.
Animal Psychism 155
After a time, it will be found that the string is no
longer required as a prompter, for the dog will asso
ciate the distance of the trainer's body with the correct
row of cards. The same thing must be gone through
for each card in the second row.
A third row of cards is now added, and the same
method employed—the trainer standing still further
from the table, in position number 3. Finally a fourth
row. This will be found sufficient to complete the let
ters of the alphabet, and any numbers which may be
required. By picking them up one at a time, any given
word may be spelled, or the result of any mathematical
problem which has been set for the dog to work out.
The question may sound complicated, but the answer is
usually simple. Thus, if the trainer asks, "how many
years has this gentleman been married?" and the dog
picks up 13, it is only necessary for the dog to pick up
first the 1 and then the 3. These numbers have been
given him by means of the proper cues.
The principle of this system should now be clear.
The relative distances of the trainer's body, together
with the cue words, have supplied the dog with all the
information necessary to enable him to spell out any
answers that may be necessary, or the solution of any
problem which may be set him. An intelligent dog or
horse is a very good judge of distance, and soon learns
just what his master wants, and what is expected of
him, and will respond to his slightest wishes or move
ments. The dog can be trained to pick out flowers or
small flags in the same way, by attaching these to
wooden stands, so constructed that the dog can pick
them up readily with his teeth.
This fundamental system can be extended in various
156 The Psychic World
directions, and can be taught to an intelligent horse or
pony also. It
is,
I
believe, unquestionable that the feats
accomplished
by
the vast majority of performing ani
mals may be explained by means of such simple code
signals. The horses of Elberfeld and the Mannheim
dogs certainly remain
a
problem, and
I
am not contend
ing that the above explanation covers their sensational
accomplishments.
I
am merely endeavoring to sum
marize, very briefly,
a
few of the simple code systems
which have been devised, and to show how they have
been employed
in
the training of performing animals.
IX
Concerning Levitation
Levitation may be of two kinds : ( I ) the lifting of
the human body from the earth or floor, or (2) the
lifting of some inanimate object, such as a table. So
far as I know, there are but few cases on record where
in the body of an animal, or some other living creature,
has been thus levitated —except, of course, birds !
Levitation, however, implies that the body thus lifted
has been raised from the earth by some supernormal
means.
As to the lifting of inanimate objects, we are here
at once plunged into the much-disputed question of the
physical phenomena of spiritualism. Personally, I have
no doubt whatever that such phenomena exist, and that
they are genuine. I have seen innumerable perfectly
magnificent levitations in the presence of Eusapia
Palladino, perfectly controlled, in good light, when
every conceivable form of trickery was effectually
eliminated. The armchair criticisms and polemics of no
living man could shake my faith in them! Further, I
feel quite assured that equally good phenomena have
been observed in the presence of many other mediums.
Telekinesis, however, is what we ordinarily observe;
and telekinesis does not imply levitation, since objects
may be merely moved in a horizontal direction, without
actually being lifted from the surface on which they
rest. A mere sliding, in other words, would constitute
evidence for telekinesis, if genuinely supernormal. And
it need hardly be pointed out that the evidence for
157
158 The Psychic World
telekinesis and the levitation of inanimate objects is
very much stronger than the evidence for human levita
tion—the former phenomena having been observed far
more frequently, and under far better conditions of
control.
The question of the levitation of the human body
has, however, again been brought to the front by the
publication of M. Oliver Leroy's book upon this sub
ject.* Being an orthodox Catholic, M. Leroy naturally
discusses the evidence, historic and contemporary, from
that point of view, and with special reference to in
stances of levitation in the lives of the saints. He makes
a careful comparison, however, with cases of alleged
levitation of certain mediums, wizards, demoniacs,
magnetized persons, etc., as well as the reported cases
of yogis, fakirs and holy men of the Orient. It may be
said at once that, in many respects, M. Leroy has
written an eminently fair, critical and judicial book,
and the historic evidence which he has collected is of
the utmost value. He has taken the pains to consult
original documents and sources, and to publish the evi
dence of eye-witnesses, whenever possible. At the same
time, of course, one cannot but feel the inevitable bias
of the author, in his strained attempts to differentiate
the levitations of Catholic saints from those of
mediums, and to show that they are of quite a differ
ent nature or character. These arguments I shall
presently discuss. First of all, however, a brief sum
mary of the book is in order.
M. Leroy divides his book into three parts: dealing
respectively with the traditions, the facts and the
'Levitation: An Examination of the Evidence and Explanations.
By Oliver Leroy. London, 1928.
Concerning Levitation 159
theories. The first section is again divided into two
parts: Non-Catholic Traditions, and Christian Hagi-
ography. In the former, he summarizes the older his
toric evidence to be found in the Greek beliefs, Bud
dhism, Taoism, Chinese Buddhism, Islamic Mysticism,
among savages (the levitations of wizards and demo
niacs), and of mediums and magnetized subjects. In
dealing with Christian Hagiography he summarizes
the evidence contained in the Old and New Testaments,
in the Coptic Greek and Russian Churches, and finally
in the Catholic Traditions. One remark of considerable
interest should perhaps be quoted here (p. 35) : "As
regards the Protestant Churches, I have not found any
traditions as to the levitation of their mystics. It may
be noticed here, in this respect, that the ardent atmos
phere of their revivals has not brought forth any belief
of the kind —at least, to my knowledge."
Passing, then, to Part II, M. Leroy enters into a
critical discussion of this evidence. He concludes —quite
rightly, I think —that there is almost no scientific evi
dence for the levitation of savage wizards, demoniacs,
etc. He thinks that the same is true of Oriental cases —
yogis, fakirs, etc. Personally, I feel that the evidence
here is considerably stronger than M. Leroy makes out,
and this section of the book shows the least research
and the poorest documentation. I know of several in
stances which seem to rest on good, first-hand evidence.
However, I shall not stress the point. After a some
what brief summary of the evidence for the levitation
of certain mediums —Home, Stainton Moses, Eusapia
Palladino, etc.—M. Leroy concludes that there is suf
ficient evidence here to warrant our belief, and that,
while much of the evidence is poor, some of it is ex
160 The Psychic World
tremely good, resting as it does upon the first-hand
testimony of men of science. A few typical instances of
this character are quoted. I shall have more to say con
cerning this evidence later on.
Coming, now, to the evidence for the levitation of
Catholic saints and mystics, M. Leroy has accumulated
a mass of circumstantial data, and this portion of his
book is by far the most valuable. He has enumerated
dozens of instances, and has unearthed the testimony
of eye-witnesses in a large number of these, thereby mak
ing immediately available a mass of material from the
most widely scattered and inaccessible sources. Special
attention is of course given to the cases of St. Theresa
and St. Joseph of Copertino. It must be admitted that
much of this evidence is very striking —the witnesses
in many instances verifying the actuality of the levita
tion by passing their hands under the body of the
levitated saint, as well as observing it carefully and
without apparent emotional bias. Eliminating all doubt
ful cases, M. Leroy concludes that the evidence for the
genuine levitation of many of these saints and mystics
is undoubted and conclusive, and consequently that
the occasional levitation of the human body is a fact.
Having arrived at this conclusion, M. Leroy then
proceeds to compare the physical and psychological
characteristics of levitation in the cases of (a) Catholic
mystics, and (b) mediums. He concludes that there are
certain analogies, but also certain differences. The prin
cipal analogies which he sees are : the upward or hori
zontal movement of the body; the fact that it can be
lifted in any position; the fact that inanimate objects
(such as chairs) are sometimes lifted with the body;
the fact that the descent is usually slow and gentle ; the
Concerning Levitation 161
fact that a peculiar organic state is generally noted; the
fact that an invisible power seems to be present, pro
ducing the levitation. Further, the phenomenon is in
both cases relatively rare.
Coming now to the alleged differences between the
levitations of mediums and those noted in Catholic
hagiography, M. Leroy has listed these in tabulated
form; the most important being the following:
i. The levitations of mystics are conspicuous and
intense, whereas those of mediums are coy and elusive.
2. In the cases of mystics, the body seems to have
lost weight, while with mediums "the body seems to
rest on some invisible support !"
3. The mystic's body is often irradiated during a
levitation; this is never noted during the levitations of
mediums.
4. The levitations of mystics are lasting; those of
mediums brief and fleeting.
5. In the former the locality is immaterial; in the
latter it is always in a seance room.
6. The one takes place in any degree of light ; the
other only in darkness or semi-darkness.
7. No change of temperature; frequent lowering
of the temperature.
8. Illness no obstacle; illness inhibits the phe
nomena.
9. Spontaneous ecstasy; provoked trance condition.
10. No cooperation of those present; seeming vital
cooperation.
11. Private demonstrations; public occurrences.
12. Personal faculty; alleged hereditary power.
13. Moral perfection of the life; indifferent
morality.
1 62 The Psychic World
14. Asceticism; no asceticism.
15. Repugnance to displaying power; eager display
of power.
16. Unexpected; purposely invoked.
Such are the main differences which Mr. Leroy finds
between the levitations of mystics, on the one hand,
and mediums, on the other. It may be admitted that—
judging from the relatively scant accounts available in
both sets of instances —some of these differences seem
to exist. Others, on the contrary, seem to be very
forced, and impress one with the conviction that M.
Leroy is trying to make out a case, by placing undue
emphasis upon dubious or unessential details. After all,
the levitation itself is the important phenomenon ! The
impression made upon me by this portion of the book
is that, having been forced to admit that the evidence
for the levitation of mediums is at least as good as that
for the levitation of Catholic saints, M. Leroy feels
himself bound to accentuate certain apparent differ
ences, in the hope that the reader will be forced to con
clude that the modus operandi is really different,
though apparently similar. This, however, brings us
to Part III of his book, devoted to theories.
After having disposed of the a priori objections of
skeptics, M. Leroy summarizes the three types of
theories which have been advanced in order to explain
levitation. These are: the naturalistic, a "qualified
supernaturalism," and absolute supernaturalism.
Considering, first, his qualified supernaturalism, we
have (a) the view that levitation results from some un
known condition of the organism, depending in turn
upon a special gift of the Holy Ghost. Aside from this
Concerning Levitation 163
latter element, it will be seen that this is merely a
form of qualified naturalistic explanation, (b) : The
spiritualistic explanation —that disembodied spirits
actually lift the body into the air. It is certainly prob
lematical how many intelligent spiritualists would now
adays hold this crude view. M. Leroy naturally rejects
both these theories—as well he might.
In the section devoted to absolute supernaturalism,
M. Leroy gives the orthodox Catholic view of levita
tion—which
is,
to my mind,
a
beautiful example of the
way
in
which word-juggling can be made to mean any
thing and nothing. Here
it
is,
from p. 247
:
"Levitation may be supposed to be
a
non-objective
phenomenon,
in
the common acceptance of the word,
but no less fraught with superior reality.
It
may be
termed hallucination, but
a
divine one, infinitely truer
than the short sight of the non-hallucinated people.
According to this explanation, levitation
is,
in some
cases, not
a
charisma of the levitated person, but of
him who
is
granted the sight of it; and this interpreta
tion accounts for some difficult cases . . . where
a
very
sincere and trustworthy testimony does not receive
from other circumstances
a
satisfactory confirma
tion. . .
."
If this means anything at all,
it
means that levitation
is
not to be considered
a
physical phenomenon, but
a
hallucination —the hallucinated person being
in
a
pecu
liar psychological condition. Of course this view
is
di
rectly contradicted
by
the facts that (a)
in
numerous
instances, several individuals have witnessed
a
levita
tion at the same time; (b)
in
many instances the wit
164 The Psychic World
nesses have actually placed their hands under the body
and verified the levitation in question; (c) that such
levitations have occasionally been photographed
(Richet, Thirty Years of Psychical Research, p. 549) ;
(d) these witnesses were, in the majority of cases, un
emotional scientific men, whose conduct at the time
showed not the slightest trace of having been halluci
nated; and (e) in some instances, partial levitations
have been registered by means of scales, balances and
other laboratory apparatus. This theory of M. Leroy's,
therefore, breaks down completely in the face of the
available evidence, and we are forced to the conclusion
that levitations are physical phenomena, that the body
has actually been lifted from the floor or earth, either by
normal or by supernormal means.
Contrary to the opinion of M. Leroy, I must re
gard the evidence for the levitation of mediums as in
finitely stronger than the evidence for the levitation of
saints. It is newer, better attested, more circumstantial,
and verified by men of science in a scientific age, rather
than by religious enthusiasts in a superstitious age. I
need not here enter into any summary of this evidence,
some of which has been given by M. Leroy, but in far
greater detail by Richet (op. cit.). I should like to
quote one account, however, which seems to have been
overlooked by nearly all writers upon this subject,
though it is one of the most striking accounts on rec
ord. At a meeting of the English S.P.R., October 26,
1894, Sir Oliver Lodge read his paper upon the phe
nomena witnessed by himself, Richet, Myers and
Ochorowicz in the presence of Eusapia Palladino, and
at the conclusion of his paper Sir William Crookes
made the following statements concerning the alleged
'
Concerning Levitation 165
phenomena he had witnessed in the presence of D. D.
Home. He said:
"The best cases of Home's levitation I witnessed
were in my own house. On one occasion he went to a
clear part of the room, and, after standing quietly for
a minute, told us he was rising. I saw him slowly rise
up with a continuous gliding movement and remain
about six inches off the ground for several seconds,
when he slowly descended. On this occasion no one
moved from their places. On another occasion I was
invited to come to him, when he rose 18 inches off the
ground, and I passed my hands under his feet, round
him, and over his head when he was in the air
"On several occasions Home and the chair in which
he was sitting at the table rose off the ground. This was
generally done very deliberately, and Home then some
times tucked his feet on the seat of the chair and held
up his hands in view of all of us. On such an occasion
I have got down and seen and felt that all four legs
were off the ground at the same time, Home's feet be
ing on the chair. Less frequently the levitating power
extended to those sitting next to him. Once my wife
was thus raised off the ground in her chair. . . ."
Now, in the first place, I challenge M. Leroy to pro
duce any evidence equal to this in value, reported by an
eminent man of science. And in the second place testi
mony such as this disposes of all theories of hallucina
tion, divinely inspired or otherwise. Home, on this oc
casion, as on many other occasions, was very evidently
raised from the floor by some means; and other
mediums seem to have been levitated also, under ex
1 66 The Psychic World
cellent conditions of control, by what we must take to
be the same means. There can be no question, I think,
as to the genuine character of many of these levita-
tions; they are well verified, supernormal physical phe
nomena. They actually occur. Such being the case, we
are forced to seek some explanation, and are of neces
sity, as scientific investigators, forced to fall back upon
some more or less naturalistic theory—which M. Leroy
rejects.
In cases of bodily levitation, there is certainly no
actual loss of weight, in the sense that the organs and
tissues of the body are disintegrated, as they are as
serted to be in certain cases of dematerialization. The
human body remains intact. What seemingly occurs is
that the pull of gravity is in some way partially or
wholly neutralized or overcome for the time being.
This must, seemingly, be due to some force generated
within the medium's body, or the immediate environ
ment, or both, counteracting in some way the gravita
tional pull. We must remember, in this connection, that
weight is a relative, and not an absolute, thing. Weight
is not an inherent attribute of an object, as most people
think, but is solely due to the attraction of gravitation.
Thus, a pound weight does not weigh the same at the
equator and at the North Pole, for the simple reason
that the weight is further from the center of gravity
(the center of the earth) at the equator than it is at
the pole, and hence is less. On the moon it would
weigh somewhat less than three ounces, because of the
moon's smaller mass; on the sun, nearly 28 pounds for
a converse reason. Alone in a universe of chaos it would
have no weight at all. Whatever particular numerical
modification of the theory of gravitation we may ulti
Concerning Levitation 167
mately be forced to accept, due to Einstein's views, and
whatever theory we may ultimately adopt for the causa
tion of gravitation, we must always admit that falling
bodies act as if they were being subjected to some
genuine pull —which is all that Newton claimed. If this
pull, this attractive force, could be in some measure
counteracted, therefore, the attracted body would ap
pear to lose weight, and might actually float in the air,
as though it had practically no weight for the time be
ing. We should then have a levitation of the body in
question.
Now we know that this can actually be accomplished
experimentally, using a metal ball as the object to be
raised. A sort of repulsive magnetism is generated in
the metal plate on which the ball rests, and the ball is
repelled from the plate, so that it floats some distance
in the air above it. This is a simple physical experiment
which has often been accomplished. I do not, of course,
for one moment contend that there is a direct analogy
here; the human body is not a metal object, and there
is no known magnetic or electrical energy which would
act upon it as it acted upon the metal ball, in the above
experiment. It is possible, however, that we may have
here an indirect analogy, which may afford us some clue
as to what occurs when a human body is levitated.
Let us for the moment omit consideration of the
Relativity theory, and assume that the weight of any
body or object is due to an actual gravitational pull—
to a force as postulated by Newton. This is constant
and invariable, and the laws governing it are definitely
known. Such being the case, there seem to be only two
ways in which this pull could be neutralized or over
come : ( 1
) Some screen must be introduced between
1 68 The Psychic World
the earth and the body, shielding it from the pull in
question; or (2) some repulsive energy of force must
be generated in the body itself, tending to offset the
pull of gravity, in somewhat the same way that light
waves can neutralize each other, resulting in darkness.
It is hardly necessary to emphasize the fact that such
a hypothetical energy can be neither electricity nor
magnetism, but some energy unknown to modern
science and as such distinctly supernormal in character.
As to supposition Number 1 : There is no known
substance which is in any sense opaque to gravity, in the
way that certain substances are opaque to other known
forces or energies. Thus, glass is transparent to light
while it is opaque for electricity, while a sheet of iron
is opaque for light while it is transparent for electricity,
etc. But there is no substance known which in any way
screens or shuts-off the pull of gravity. Furthermore,
in cases of levitation, no such screen was employed, the
body being freely suspended in space. We may there
fore disregard this supposition, and fall back upon
Number 2, as the only conceivable one consistent with
the older Newtonian theory of gravitation.
According to this view, some unknown force is spon
taneously generated within the body, tending to offset
or neutralize the attraction of gravitation, and hence
causing it to lose weight. What the nature of this force
may be we have not, of course, the slightest inkling.
It is obviously supernormal, unknown and mysterious.
If such a force exists, it is one of the duties of psychical
researchers of the future to attempt to isolate and study
it. Without entering into this theoretical question at
greater length now, however, let us first of all consider
Concerning Levitation 169
one or two points which may be thought to have some
bearing upon the problem under consideration.
It is probably fairly well known that the Fakirs and
Yogis of India claim to be able to produce levitation
experimentally by means of certain breathing exercises
which (it is asserted) facilitate the intake and distribu
tion of prana —the subtle, vital essence which is imbibed
during the exercises in question. In my Higher Psychi
cal Development (p. 57), I touched upon this ques
tion, remarking that :
"As you practice these breathing exercises, in con
nection with concentration, you are said to pass through
four stages. (1) The body breaks out into perspira
tion; (2) everything appears to go black before you.
That passes off, and then you experience the sensation
of (3) hopping about like a frog. If you are sitting
cross-legged, this is a curious feeling. Physically, peo
ple do not move —although apparently in some cases
they do—but the theory is that you only hop about like
this because the body is not properly balanced. If, they
say, it were properly balanced, then, instead of hopping
about, you would go straight up into the air—which is
(4) levitation. .. ."
The theory
is,
of course, that levitation
is
thus
in
duced by breathing exercises, which increase the flow of
prana through the body, which
in
turn neutralizes the
pull of gravity.
Without, now, stopping to discuss this Oriental
theory, let us pass on to certain facts more or less con
nected with
it,
which
I
myself have observed. These
observations
I
included
in
my paper read before the
170 The Psychic World
First International Psychical Congress: Copenhagen,
1
92 1. I quote herewith a portion of this Report.
"You all know the old lifting game, in which four
persons lift a fifth, by placing their fingers under the
arms and knees of the fifth seated person. All four
persons doing the lifting bend forward several times,
in unison, inhaling and exhaling deeply together. The
person seated in the chair also inhales and exhales at
the same time. On the fifth count, say, all five persons
hold their breath; the fingers of the four lifters are
rapidly inserted under the arms and legs of the seated
subject, and the lift is made. It is a fact, which prac
tically every one will attest, that, under these circum
stances, the person lifted seems to lose weight. A heavy
man, whom it is found impossible to lift at first, will
be lifted with apparent ease upon the lifters' four fin
gers, after the breathing and bending exercises have
been undertaken. That is the subjective impression of
the lifters. The question of course is: Is there really
any loss of weight, or is this simply a subjective im
pression—an illusion ?
"Although this test has been tried by many thousands
of persons, it is curious that no one ever seems to have
thought of putting the matter to the test by trying it
upon registering scales, upon which the combined
weight would, every moment, be in evidence. This test
we undertook. On the afternoon of July 25 (1921),
we tried this experiment a number of times upon the
platform of one of the large, self-registering scales,
manufactured by the Toledo Scales Co., built to reg
ister up to 2,000 pounds. This scale had been especially
adjusted with the greatest exactitude for our test, and
Concerning Levitation 171
its accuracy was checked off before and after the ex
periment.
"Those doing the lifting were Mr. William Russell
(electrical expert), Mr. Burling Hull (conjurer), Mr.
Albert Poyner, of the Toledo Scales Company, and my
self. . . . The reader of weights recorded during the
various lifts was Mr. W. J. Mahnken, an expert
engineer.
"A chair was placed in the center of the weighing
platform. Upon this the subject to be lifted was seated.
The four lifters took up their positions upon four cor
ners of the platform. Our combined weight (five per
sons) was exactly 712 pounds. Movements upon our
part produced only slight oscillations of the needle on
the recording dial. Deep breathing produced almost no
appreciable effect.
"Under these circumstances, the necessary bendings
and breathings were undertaken. On the fifth count, the
lift was made slowly, lasting about five seconds. The
experiment was performed five times. On the first lift,
the recorder stated that the needle on the dial had
fallen to 660 pounds—a loss of 52 pounds. On the sec
ond lift, there was an apparent loss of 52 pounds. On
the third lift, of 60 pounds. On the fourth lift, of 60
pounds. And on the fifth lift, of 60 pounds. These
losses tallied with the subjective feelings of the lifters,
who also felt that weight had been lost. How account
for these remarkable results ?
"If I lifted a chair, while standing upon the plat
form, the dial showed first of all a sudden increase of
weight, then a lessened weight, and finally swung back
to normal. If I squatted on my toes, and suddenly rose
to an upright position, a similar gain and then loss of
172 The Psychic World
weight was observed. In our lifting tests, however, no
gain of weight was at any time reported, invariably a
loss, which however slowly returned to normal, as the
subject was held for some considerable time in the air.
... I have no theory to offer as to these observations,
which I cannot fully explain. I do not for a moment
assume that any actual loss of weight occurred in the
body of the lifted subject. I merely give you the facts
as recorded, hoping that others may check off these re
sults, and discover what freak in the laws of mechanics
was responsible for the results we obtained.
" *
It should perhaps be added that flash-light photo
graphs of the dial were taken at the time, showing
these losses; and also that I repeated these tests, some
two years later, in Toledo, with more or less similar
results, save that considerably smaller losses were then
noted.
Let us compare these curious results with some ob
tained by the Milan Commission (1892), during their
experiments with Eusapia Palladino. Here we read :
"Eusapia, seated on a chair, was placed on the plat
form of a weighing machine, and her feet were strongly
bound together by a handkechief. One of us, M. Finzi,
was told-off to read the weight. M. Schiaparelli and I
employed ourselves in watching closely the balance and
its surroundings, so as to be sure that Eusapia did not
touch with hand or foot the ground, or any object in
the neighborhood.
"Her weight with the chair was nearly 58 kilograms
[nearly 128 pounds] ; we placed on the scale a weight
of 500 grams, at a point where it would be equivalent
• See my Story of Psychic Science, p. 228.
Concerning Levitation 173
to 50 kilograms, and then the rider was placed at the
figure eight. Eusapia's weight was thus exactly bal
anced. Then, though Eusapia did not move her chair,
we had, in order to maintain equilibrium, to shift the
rider first to six, then to four, and then to two, and
finally to zero, and further, to obtain exact equilibrium,
it would have been necessary to take away a little of the
weight of 500 grams which represented 50 kilograms.
It will be seen, therefore, that Eusapia dimin
ished her weight in this experiment by at least 8 kilo
grams (17^ pounds). We are certain that she threw
nothing away . . . and equally certain that she derived
no support from any neighboring object. And finally,
the movement was sufficiently slow—it occupied from
ten to twenty seconds —to make it possible to attrib
ute it to any jump, or quick movement of any kind. . . ."
It is true that the experimenters did not consider
these tests conclusive, because of the crudeness of their
scales, and later tests undertaken with more delicate
balances yielded striking and positive, but not such re
markable, results. "Upon one occasion, when the bal
ance was placed some ten inches behind Eusapia, in
response to an urgent movement of her (controlled)
hand, the rider oscillated violently, while the hands,
feet and knees of the medium were being securely held.
This effect, as of some heavy weight's being thrown
into the scale, was however never repeated."
At the conclusion of our tenth seance in New York,
I myself saw Eusapia step upon the platform of the
scale, and apparently lose four pounds within a very
few seconds. This occurred on December 9, 1909, and
is noted in the (as yet unpublished) records of the
174 The Psychic World
American Palladino seances. It may be stated, in pass
ing, that I have frequently seen Eusapia make tables,
stools, and other objects light or heavy, at will, merely
by placing her hands over them, and willing them to
become so.
Although these apparent losses of weight cannot, of
course, be considered in any sense true levitations, they
may perhaps be held to be partial levitations —effects
which, if more pronounced, would have resulted in
total levitations. The lifting of inanimate objects has
interest, in this connection, because of the fact that the
chair or stool on which the medium was sitting was
occasionally said to have been levitated with his body,
at the same time.
Now, we have more or less accustomed ourselves to
the idea that telekinesis is effected by means of some
externalization of energy from the medium's body,
which can become sufficiently solid to affect matter. In
other words, a sort of energized, invisible teleplasm.
There is a great deal of direct and indirect evidence
that this explanation is the true one. The vital energy
issues from the medium's finger-tips, particularly,
charging the material objects on which the hands are
laid, affecting instruments and photographic plates, in
fluencing the human body, and so on. Doubtless the
cold breeze which issued from various spots on Eu-
sapia's body was closely allied to this—a current which
was certainly objective, as we verified to our complete
satisfaction during the Naples experiments, when we
observed that a small flag fluttered actively when
placed in its path, notwithstanding the fact that the
medium's mouth and nose were effectually held. Craw
ford apparently saw the process of the gradual con
Concerning Levitation 175
densation of this vital current into visible teleplasm.
Finally, we have teleplasm itself, shaped and formed
into definite materializations. Here, then, we seem to
have a graduated series of stages all the way from in
visible energy to solid matter. During normal dema-
terialization the reverse process apparently takes place ;
the visible substance returning to invisible energy,
which is reabsorbed into the medium's organism.
Often this externalized energy seems to act as an
attractive force, drawing objects toward the medium.
More often, seemingly, it acts in the reverse manner,
propelling objects from the medium. In the physical
world, whenever such action is noted, there is always
a corresponding reaction; whenever an apple falls to
the ground, the earth also rises to meet the apple, the
distance being proportional to the difference in mass
between the earth and the apple. The same law doubt
less applies whenever supernormal physical phenomena
are produced. There is a reaction upon the body of the
medium, and indeed such corresponding reactions have
frequently been noted in muscular twitchings, contrac
tions, etc., coincidental with the movement of the ob
ject. This was frequently noted in the case of Eusapia.
In such cases, then, we have an invisible energy acting
and reacting between the medium's body and a mass of
matter—the object moved. Inasmuch as the object is
generally much lighter than the body of the medium,
the object is moved while the subject's body remains
relatively stationary. But, supposing that the object
were much heavier than the body of the medium, being
practically immovable. Might not the reaction then
have the effect of moving the medium's body away
from the object, which would remain stationary? And
176 The Psychic World
if this outflowing of telekinetic energy were more or
less constant and continuous, might not the medium's
body be repelled backwards in space ?
Suppose, now, that such an outpouring of telekinetic
energy occurred, directed downwards, i.e., toward the
earth. The latter would then act as an immovable body,
while the medium would be propelled upwards into
space—that
is,
levitated
!
This would continue as long
as the expenditure of force continued, and, when
it
began to diminish, the medium's body would gradually
sink to earth again, as
is
usually the case. A slight or
sporadic externalization would thus result in lessening
the weight of the subject, while
a
powerful and continu
ous exudation would induce
a
genuine levitation. No
weight would actually be lost, from the physiological
point of view; the attraction of gravitation would be
just as uniform and law-abiding as ever, but
a
levita
tion would result nevertheless, because of this external
ization of telekinetic force, powerful enough to offset
it
for the time being. We have here, perhaps, some
faint clew as to the modus operandi of such levitations,
enabling us to formulate
in
our minds some definite and
not too irrational picture as to what may occur on such
occasions. Granting their actuality, some explanation is
certainly needed, and
it
seems to me that the theory
formulated above covers the observed facts in
a
fairly
satisfactory manner.
What
is
the nature of this telekinetic energy, and
what are the factors which are instrumental
in
causing
its externalization? As yet we know very little concern
ing
it
;
still less of the conditions which facilitate or
in
sure its exteriorization.
It
seems to be allied to, though
not identical with, the neural energy of the body.
It
Concerning Levitation 177
does not seem to be radiated from the plexuses or great
vital centers, though it may be generated within them.
It is probably connected, in some subtle way, with the
sexual energies.* It can affect matter and the material
world, and become more or less substantial or "solid," t
for the time being. It is sporadic and uncertain in its
manifestations; it is occasionally externalized spontane
ously (poltergeist phenomena), but more often volun
tarily and experimentally. Its activities are usually
associated with a peculiar psycho-physiological condi
tion of the medium (trance, etc.), and it is the basis of
physical mediumship. Beyond this we can hardly go.
Now, although there is at present no scientific basis
for this belief, it is certainly conceivable that the human
body may be at times "polarized," permitting a greater
flow of energy through it than at other times. We have
examples of this in the physical world. The copper wire
does not generate the electricity which it carries; the
electric energy merely flows through it (or around
it). The magnetism in a bar-magnet is not generated
within the magnet, but is permitted to flow through it,
when all the atoms
in
the iron bar are pointed
in
the
same direction. Heat the magnet red-hot, and
it
is
no
longer
a
magnet, since its contained atoms no longer
point in one direction but
in
every direction. The flow
of magnetism through
it
is
thus prevented until the bar
of iron
is
again magnetized, when
it
will be found that
its atoms once more point
in
the same direction. Sim
ilarly,
it
has been contended, the human body can be
• See my Story
of
Psychic Science, pp. 145-47, for
a
discussion of this
question of the possible connection between the Sexual Energies and
Psychic Phenomena, on the one hand, and the Subtle Energies men
tioned by the Yogis, on the other. Also later in the text.
fEusapia was wont to say that she could move objects
if
her will
were sufficiently solid.
178 The Psychic World
thus polarized, to a certain extent, enabling a greater
flow of vital energy through it to take place. Diet is
said to facilitate this ;
* so does bodily posture ; so do
right feelings and emotions; while the Yogis claim that
certain breathing exercises have an enormous influence
in this direction. I am inclined to believe that rhythm
also has a remarkable effect—the study of which has
been almost entirely neglected. I will tell of a remark
able experience I once had, in this connection, when I
was about eighteen years of age.
At that time in my life I was always in excellent
physical condition, constantly engaged in cricket, foot
ball, tennis, gymnastics, boxing, running and so on.
During one summer vacation, my chum and I walked
from London to Exeter in a week—a distance, count
ing side-trips, etc., of approximately thirty miles a day.
On the evening of the seventh day, we both of us had
an identical experience : we both felt that we could rise
into the air and float with only the slightest extra exer
tion; that we almost had difficulty in keeping on the
ground ! This feeling of physical ecstasy (for I can only
call it that) lasted for about ten or twelve minutes; but
it was noted by both of us at the same time, and lasted
in both cases for about the same length of time. It was
a unique and never-to-be-forgotten experience, unlike
anything I have experienced before or since. It was not
due to mere excellence of physical condition, as I have
emphasized the fact that I was, at the time, nearly
always in perfect training. We both of us attributed
it,
at the time, to the constant rhythm imparted to the
body by the walking, and the deep breathing which we
• See my article on "The Occult Side of Diet," in the Occult Review.
Concerning Levitation 179
frequently practiced in unison. Perhaps we were wiser
than we knew !
It is all very well for the strictly scientific investi
gator to turn up his nose at these suggestions ; but the
fact remains that, if levitation is a genuine phenome
non, it is a most extraordinary one, and a phenomenon
which no one has ever attempted to explain in any de
tail, so far as I know. The only recourse for such a
critic is to assert that genuine levitation never occurs at
all—which is certainly an easy way of disposing of the
difficulty ! But there is an enormous body of evidence
tending to prove that genuine levitation of the human
body does in fact occur; M. Leroy has accumulated
much of this, and much more might easily be cited from
spiritualistic sources. Many of these incidents are
vouched for by eminent men of science, who have ob
served the phenomenon in a leisurely and dispassionate
manner. Doubtless many cases have never been
recorded. For instance, two acquaintances of mine have
positively assured me that they have been levitated,
while remaining perfectly rational and wide-awake.
Both instances occurred in the afternoon, while they
were dressed and more or less busily occupied. The evi
dence for many of Home's levitations seems incontest
able. If, therefore, levitation be a fact, it requires some
explanation, and I have attempted to suggest one in
the preceding paragraphs, which may or may not con
tain within them some element of truth. As to this,
time alone can tell !
Finally, it should be pointed out that I have dis
cussed the problem of levitation purely from the point
of view of Newtonian gravitation, and have said
nothing concerning the relativity theory which, as we
180 The Psychic World
know, has thrown an entirely new light upon many
physical problems, and especially upon the nature of
gravity. I do not know to what extent some theory of
lcvitation might be worked out from the relativistic
point of view, which substitutes gravitational field,
curvature of space-time, etc., for the traditional theory.
Mr. J. M. Bird gave some attention to this idea (Jour
nal A.S.P.R., March, 1928) ; I quite join him in leav
ing its detailed development to some more specialized
investigator. I have merely attempted in the above to
discuss this interesting problem from the psychical re
searcher's point of view, to offer some possible theoretic
interpretation, and to call attention to the existing mass
of evidence for genuine levitation, which seems to have
been strangely overlooked.
X
Yoga Philosophy
Is there not much that psychical researchers might learn
from the teachings of the Orient? I believe that there
is. They have frequently returned disappointed, it is
true, because they have sought objective and material
miracles, paying little attention to the hidden and sub
jective phenomena—those mental and psychic phe
nomena which are rarely exhibited to strangers and
mere mystery-mongers. They have witnessed certain
conjuring tricks, snake-charming, and the feats of per
forming Fakirs, and concluded that nothing beyond
these is to be found. The practitioners of Yoga are
rarely accessible; but they have developed a remark
able system of metaphysics, and doubtless know much
more concerning certain aspects of psychic phenomena
than do we.
"East is East and West is West, and never the twain
shall meet," wrote Kipling. The reason for this prob
ably is that East and West hold such diametrically op
posite views of life. To us Westerners, this material
world is everything; this life is all. We are inclined to
look upon the Hindus as visionaries, never in touch with
reality, wrapped in transcendental vaporizings. To
them, we are the dreamers, the visionaries, lost in a
world of illusion ; we are the ones who are devoting our
lives to ephemeral baubles, just as a child might value
its dolls. To them, this life is brief and fleeting; spirit
is eternal; nothing else matters. To us, matter is the
important thing —goods, chattels and possessions !
181
1 82 The Psychic World
Here, then, is the basic reason for the lack of under
standing and mutual appreciation between East and
West. Is man essentially body or spirit? That is a very
important question, and one which we are all called
upon to solve. Is spirit as real, as actual, in its own
sphere, as matter is in its? Experiments, observations,
experiences, alone can prove this. Those who have
traveled this Road say to us: "Do so and so, and you
will see for yourself that what I say is true." The
skeptic replies: "No, show me objectively, and I will
believe." The other rejoins: "I cannot show you ob
jectively; experience this state of which I speak, for
yourself, and you will then realize its actuality." Thus
the controversy rages ! The only way to settle it is for
the skeptic to experience enough of the mystical state to
know that it exists, and that there is a great Truth
here which is urging to be expressed.
Yoga Philosophy is built upon the fundamental
postulate that there is an omnipotent, omniscient In
telligence, throughout the Universe, which is not, how
ever, a personal Deity. It is Absolute Consciousness.
.With this Consciousness it is possible to merge. The
object of Yoga
is,
very largely, to blend the individual
consciousness with this Absolute Consciousness; then
Sgmadhi.
is
attained^-unutterable bliss and peace. In
this, however, the individual
is
not totally lost, as gen
erally believed. The Drop
is
not poured into the Ocean
;
the Ocean
is
poured into the Drop. We acquire its
powers and potentialities, while retaining the self as
a
sort of background of experience. We lose our individ
ual consciousness, to
a
certain extent; but that
is
not the
true man. This can best be exemplified by pointing out
that when, e.g., we are lost
in
excitement, or in some
Yoga Philosophy 183
great emotion, we do not think "/ am excited" ; we feel
the excitement. We are lost in something greater than
ourselves; we become part of it; yet we experience it !
We are greater than we know. . . .
This process of blending or merging the individual
consciousness with the Absolute Consciousness is at
tained in eight steps or stages. It is a perfectly grad
uated system, and is so logical and systematic that one
must acknowledge its theoretical perfection.
* The first two steps are known, respectively, as Yama
and Niyama. In these stages, a highly ethical mode
of life is taught—control, indifference, detachment,
renunciation, charity, etc., as well as such physical re
straints as strict vegetarianism, abstemiousness, cleans
ing the body inside and out with water, etc. In these
stages the man must learn to overcome the desires and
temptations of this world—learn detachment —so that
he may be prepared for the strenuous work that is to
follow.
The third step deals with the body; it is known as
Asana. It has to do with bodily posture. Any one who
experiments will soon find that, after a very few min
utes, the body will begin to make its presence known;
it will become restless and irritable. This is bad for
long-continued meditation, when absolute stillness and
peace are required. So, the Yogis experimented for sev
eral hundred years, and finally settled upon eighty-four
positions or postures, which can be retained almost in
definitely without interrupting the flow of thought.
These are the Asana postures. Some of these are prac
tically impossible for Europeans to assume ; others can
be attained with more or less practice. Once assumed,
the body sinks into its required state of passivity, with
1
84 The Psychic World
the same sense of relief that a man might sink into a
warm bath. The body can then be held immobile for
hours. The flow of thought will proceed uninter
ruptedly. The body is steadied and poised. These are
some results of Asana.
But there are other results. These positions are also
favorable to the free circulation, within the body, of
certain vital currents, which are said to circulate to and
fro, from and to certain centers, which will be men
tioned presently. The channels are left free and clear,
so to say; this results from Asana.
The fourth stage also deals with the body; it is
known as pranayama. The Yogis believe that, in addi
tion to the chemical constituents of the air, there is also
within it a vital fluid known as prana. This prana is
imbibed when air is taken into the lungs, and circulated
within the body, by means of suitable breathing exer
cises. Pranayama means literally prana control. Breath
ing exercises of various specific kinds are therefore a
part of this system. By holding the breath, prana is
said to be retained within the body, and it can be sent
or directed to various parts of the body, by means of
innumerable, vital channels known as the nadi. These
nadi are not physical nerves, but analogous to them.
They more nearly resemble vital currents. Hence we
do not find them when dissecting the body. Slow, deep
breaths accumulate more of this prana than a number
of shallow ones. Hence the Yogis attempt to regulate
the breath, and make the intervals between inhalation
and exhalation as long as possible. There is much that
might be termed mythical physiology in all this ; but it
should be remembered that subjective as well as ob
Yoga Philosophy 185
jective phenomena are being portrayed in all such
descriptions.
To return, however : there is another use for prana.
There are said to be in the body certain vital centers,
known as Chakras, or lotuses, which are inactive in un
developed persons, but which can be stimulated into
activity by means of pranayama. A current of prana
is directed to one of these centers, which is aroused into
activity. We shall come to these Centers presently.
Along with pranayama, in this stage, goes Mantra-
yoga, or yoga by means of chants or mantras. Mantras
are rhythmic sentences or words, the pronunciation of
which is said to set-up a certain vibratory activity
within the body and mind which facilitates psychic man
ifestations, and assists in further inner development.
The translation of these mantras does not matter par
ticularly; it is the pronunciation of the words them
selves which counts. All languages have such rhythmic
mantras. There are certain English words which are
more or less similar. The Greeks and Romans also
knew the power of words in this respect. The Mo
hammedans have several mantras—the most famous
being "Ishhad la Allah ilia 'Hah," —"there is no God
but Allah," and so on.
The value of Mantras is therefore well known. The
basis of nearly all the Yoga Mantras is the sacred word
OM, or more properly AUM. There is much symbol
ism connected with this word ; the A. is formed in the
throat, the U. in the middle of the mouth, and the M.
by the lips, symbolic of the creation, maintenance and
destruction of the Universe. If properly pronounced,
this word will be found to produce a peculiar effect
upon the point between the eyes, at the root of the
1 86 The Psychic World
nose. It should be pronounced with a hum at the end,
like the hum of a bee. It should be repeated many
times, and as many times as possible with one breath.
This number may be increased greatly by constant
practice.
The word AUM is usually combined with others,
so as to form complex mantras. Thus: "Aum Mani
Padme Hum," "Aum Tat Sat Aum," etc. These Man
tras are said to generate a real power, and the power of
the Mantra is considered very great. It may be used for
aggressive purposes, attacking a man by means of
Mantras, using the term here as almost synonymous
with spells. The Yogis are taught the power of such
Spells, and also how to construct shields (Grahana) to
protect themselves from Mantras thus directed at
them.
These Mantras are pronounced continuously at cer
tain stages of development; incense is sometimes
burned to increase their effect.
We are now ready to begin the fifth stage of de
velopment, known as Pratyahara. We begin to work
with the mind. The body having been stilled (asana),
the vital forces circulating (pranayama), a definite
rhythm of the body having been set-up {mantrayoga),
the mind is free to turn its attention upon itself.
But before we can begin to do anything with the
mind, it must first be cleared and steadied. If you close
your eyes and turn your attention inward, you will
probably find that your mind is turning and tossing
about, like an angry sea-serpent; it is never still for one
moment; and, further, that the senses keep impinging
upon
it,
so as to keep
it
in
constant agitation. For these
reasons, silence
is
necessary; the eyes must be closed or
Yoga Philosophy 187
fixed upon some immovable object (such as the tip of
the nose, which also completes the "reflex arc") ; smell,
taste and touch must be eliminated. With the sense-
organs thus shut off, the attention is turned inward,
and attempts must be made to still the mind, so that it
may become quiet and calm. It must be made empty, to
a certain extent. The Yogis contend that, if you wish
to write anything upon a blackboard, the blackboard
must be clean; if you wish to write in the sand, that
sand must be quiet and still. Hence, before you can
begin to use the mind, for purposes of concentration,
etc., you must first make it still and quiet. This is ac
complished by means of meditation —pratyahara. Rigid
and prolonged self-analysis will enable one gradually
to acquire this condition.
When this state has been reached, we are ready for
the next step, Dharana which means Concentration.
Holding the mind still, we begin to do something with
it. An object of contemplation is held fixedly in the
mind ; it must not be allowed to waver, change its form,
color, etc., as it will have a tendency to do. Interrup
tions of consciousness of this sort are technically known
as "Breaks" —i.e., breaks in consciousness. A rigid self-
analysis will reveal an astonishing number of such
Breaks. Every time the mind is allowed to wander
away from the object of contemplation, a check must
be made, so as to enable the neophyte to ascertain how
many Breaks there may have been, in a given length of
time. A little check-mark may be made upon paper, or
a bead pulled over by the fingers —which beads are
threaded upon a string. (This is the origin of "telling
the beads," which thus originated many hundreds of
years B.C.).
1 88 The Psychic World
Having trained the mind thus far, we are ready to
begin the seventh stage of training, known as Dhyana.
This means Unification. It now becomes increasingly
difficult to express in few words the inner meaning of
these practices. When we are looking at some object,
we are aware of at least two things—the object, and
one's self. This, however, is illusory, and is based upon
the fatal Duality of the mind. All is ultimately One;
the object and ourselves are but fractions of the Abso
lute Consciousness. We must realize this. Accordingly,
an attempt is made to unify one's self with the object
of concentration. Holding it in mind, this attempt at
unification must be made ; when suddenly an extraordi
nary phenomenon will take place. A sort of "click" will
occur, and you and the object are no longer two, but
one! You and the object have merged: Dhyana has
been attained !
Various mental and spiritual results can be attained
in Dhyana; but it is not the ultimate goal; that is
Samadhi, the eighth stage. This consists essentially in
unification with the Absolute Consciousness. Then
Cosmic Consciousness is attained; ecstasy is reached;
the Yogi is no longer of this earth; he dwells in a
sphere apart; he is possessed of all the great Siddhis
(psychic powers) ; he can free his spirit and exercise
powers undreamed of. He is possessed of all knowl
edge, all wisdom, for he has the Absolute Conscious
ness to draw upon.*
This, then, is the goal of attainment: this is the
climax towards which the Yogi has been steadily pro
gressing. In this state, happiness and bliss are said to
• It must be understood that, in all this, I am merely summarizing
the teachings of Yoga and not my own views regarding it.
Yoga Philosophy 189
exist; ecstasy is constant, beyond anything attained
upon this earth.
But, in reaching this goal, several other phenomena
have been noticed. Psychic powers have been inci
dentally gained. They are off-shoots, as it were, like
the branches of a tree. We have been following the
main trunk, up to the top, "where the bird perches";
but, branching from the tree, are big and little
branches, psychic phenomena of various kinds, gained
incidentally; and these powers are developed by the
awakening of the Kundalini, and the arousing into
activity of the various Chakras.
This Kundalini is a mysterious, secret Energy, which
is said to reside in the lowest of the seven Centers, lo
cated at the base of the spine. It resembles a Serpent,
in three-and-a-half coils, with its tail in its mouth.
Hence it has been called the Serpent Power. It is doubt
less closely related to the sexual energies, but is not
identical with them.* This power is said to be resident
in all of us, but is not aroused into activity except by the
measures prescribed in Yoga. To arouse
it,
the prana
must be directed forcibly against this lowest Center,
striking
it
as one would strike
a
nail with
a
hammer.
It
then begins to move, to stir. Finally,
it
becomes aroused
into vital activity. The lowest Center
is
then vivified;
it
becomes active. By continuing the process, each of
the seven Chakras or lotus-centers
is
aroused
in
turn;
and when all of them are aroused and active, all
psychic powers are said to belong to the Yogi
;
he can
command animals and control matter
;
he can leave his
body at will; he can levitate himself; he can overcome
illness and death; he
is
clairvoyant, telepathic; he
is
•
See Note, ante.
190 The Psychic World
conscious of his dreams; he can create by thought; it is
then that "miracles" are performed.
There are seven of these Chakras or vital Centers in
the body. The first is the Muladhara, situated at the
base of the spine, having four "petals." On these Petals
are various Sanscrit letters. It is in this Center that
Kundalini sleeps, until aroused.*
The second Chakra is known as Svadisthana; it is
situated at the base of the sexual organ; it has six
petals, and is blood-red.
The third Chakra is the Manipura, just below the
Solar Plexus; it is of a golden color, and has ten petals.
It is said to be "lustrous like a gem," and is the Seat of
the "Lord of Fire."
The fourth Center is the Anahata Chakra, which is
situated in the heart. It is blood-red, has twelve petals,
and is the Seat of the Prana. The Yogis have a saying
that "He who has awakened this Chakra can walk in
the air" —that
is,
he experiences levitation. The mystics
are supposed to have unconsciously aroused this Cen
ter; hence their ability to levitate.
It
is
in
the Anahata
Chakra that the "Sound"
is
heard—the Pulse of Life.
In this Center
is
the "Tree which grants all desires,"
and beneath
it
the "Jewelled Altar." This Chakra is
the critical point
in
Yoga development.
The fifth Chakra
is
Vishuddha. This
is
situated
in
the throat, just below the larynx;
it
is
of
a
golden
•
A great deal of symbolism must be understood to exist in all this.
There are not, of course, any actual Sanscrit letters on the Petals,
because there arc no physical Petals either. The vital Centers have
been likened to lotuses—hence the number of Petals said to exist. They
are doubtless thought to correspond to vital radiating-points. In all
that follows, the reader must remember that these Centers are thought
to correspond more to vitality or energy than to any definite anatomical
structure.
Yoga Philosophy 191
color, has sixteen Petals, and is the Seat of the Akasa
Tattva (Ether). In Vishuddha is the Moon, "the Gate
way of the Great Liberation." Here, it is said, "the
three forms of time" are perceived.
The sixth Chakra is Ajna, which is situated between
the eyebrows. This has a connection with the Pineal
Gland; it has two Petals, and is said to possess three
Mystical Principles.
The seventh Chakra is Sahasrara, known as the
sacred thousand-petaled lotus. It is situated at the top
of the head, and is white-gold in color. Herein is
achieved the "Great Bliss." Herein is the Supreme
Light—the ultimate goal of Yoga.
Now, it must not be thought that these various Cen
ters actually reside in the organs or parts of the body
mentioned. They correspond to such organs or parts,
but are actually in the spine —to the extent that they
can be said to be in space at all. Up the center of the
spine is said to be a hollow tube, the Sushumna, and up
this the Kundalini passes. In its path are the various
Chakras. On either side of the Sushumna are two other
passages, Ida and Pingala, into the functionings of
which we have not space to enter now.
Doubtless, the Allegory of Eve and the Serpent, the
Tree of Life, etc., originated in this conception of the
Hindus ; for here we have the Serpent Power—Kunda
lini, and the various psychic powers (knowledge)
which may produce disastrous results by reason of their
premature awakening.
As one is practicing pranayma, and the necessary
concentration, in order to arouse Kundalini, certain
forces will begin to develop—certain phenomena will
be observed. One of them is a peculiar internal sound;
192 The Psychic World
this is known as the "Voice of the Nada." This is heard
internally; it is the so-called "Soundless Sound," "The
Voice of the Silence," etc., of which so much has been
written. Various preliminary sounds are heard first of
all: a nightingale, a cymbal, rushing waters, a flute, a
trumpet-blast, thunder, etc., until finally all these die
away, and the Silence reigns supreme. These sounds
are doubtless associated with physiological phenomena,
connected with the deep breathing exercises. Many
other phenomena may also be noted in the various
stages, which have been discussed in detail by numerous
authorities upon Yoga.
Such, in briefest outline, is this system of training. It
will be seen that it is at once systematic, clear, concise.
It begins with the body and ends with the highest psy
chic and spiritual powers. Most of the development is
inner; exterior manifestations are purely incidental.
Thus, true Yoga has no connection with the feats of
Fakirs, who torture their bodies, hold aloft their arms
until they wither, etc. The true Yogi is one who main
tains his body in perfect health and beauty; he does not
despise
it,
for he realizes that upon
it
his powers
largely depend. But
it
is
completely subjected to the
dictates of the Will.
It
is
the slave, and not the master.
By these means perfection
is
ultimately attained. . . .
Such
is
the system formulated by Patanjali, several
hundreds of years B.C.—
a
system which has counted
thousands of adherents, and has produced some of the
most noted saints of India.
• •••••■
In this teaching, and the psychic phenomena which
are said to result in consequence, there
is
assuredly
a
field for profound study. Various attempts have been
Yoga Philosophy 193
made of late to correlate these teachings with normal
anatomy and physiology; to discover the physical bases
of the Kundali Yoga. In a work entitled The Mysteri
ous Kundalini, Dr. Vasant G. Rele—amplifying a
paper read before the Bombay Medical Union in July,
1926
—attempted to show that the various Chakras
correspond to the important plexuses in the body, and
that Kundalini typifies the function of the right vagus
nerve. With this conception Sir John Woodroffe
("Arthur Avalon"), who writes a Foreword to the
book, cannot agree. He contends that it represents
some superphysical force or power —which
is,
of
course, the view taken by the Yogis themselves. How
ever, the attempt to bring the phenomena of Kundali
Yoga within the realm of orthodox science
is
an
in
teresting step
in
the right direction, and
a
sign of the
times. And Dr. Rele's further contention—that many
of these phenomena are due to bringing under conscious
control processes and functions normally unconscious —
is
a
real contribution to the subject, and one which
should be followed up
by
open-minded physiologists.
Mrs. Alice Bailey, in her book The Soul and its
Mechanism, has also attempted to show the relation
ship between the Chakras and the main nervous plexuses
in
the body, and the ductless glands.
For further information upon this interesting sub
ject, the reader may be referred to the writings of
Swamis Vivekananda and Abhedananda; Geraldine
Coster's Yoga and Western Psychology; Felix Guyot's
Yoga for the West; my own Higher Psychical Develop
ment; Dr. Evans-Wentz's Tibetan Yoga and Secret
Doctrines, and Arthur Avalon's great work The
Serpent Power; etc.
PART II
Psychic Phenomena Among
Primitive Peoples
Psychic Phenomena Among
Primitive Peoples
A Resume of the Evidence for Genuine Psychic Man
ifestations in Africa, India, China and the
Islands of the Eastern and Western
Hemispheres
Introductory
Few modern students of these problems, who have
made a really careful, first-hand investigation of the
evidence, would doubt that genuine psychic phenomena
occur, that both mental and physical manifestations of
a supernormal character actually have been observed
and recorded. Scattered throughout the pages of his
tory, they are as plentiful today as ever, despite the
mechanistic philosophy behind modern science which
is more or less directly opposed to such happenings. In
the great centers of our civilization, in London, New
York, Paris, Berlin, in our own critical and skeptical
age, these phenomena are now being observed, and are
being studied more intensively than ever, by the aid of
instrumental checks and psychological analysis. And if
this be true, if such manifestations actually occur, is it
not highly probable that similar phenomena have like
wise occurred in so-called uncivilized countries, and
that many such instances might be noted among these
more primitive peoples, if pains were taken to observe
and record them impartially and accurately? We know
that many such accounts are to be found in the books
of explorers, who often "went to scoff and remained to
197
198 The Psychic World
pray." Is there any valid reason for disregarding this
evidence, merely because the alleged facts were noted
in some far-off land and among primitive peoples? The
uniformity of these accounts, and the apparent similar
ity of many of the phenomena to those observed in our
very midst should at least give us pause, and make us
wonder whether there must not be some fire where
there is so much smoke.
As Mr. Andrew Lang remarked in an article on
"Ancient Spiritualism" many years ago:
"Is it not stretching probability almost beyond what
it will bear, to allege that all the phenomena, in the
Arctic circle as in Australia, in ancient Alexandria as
in modern London, are, always, the result of an im
posture modeled on savage ideas of the supernatural?
If so we are reduced to the choice between actual ob
jective facts of unknown origin (frequently counter
feited of course) and collective hallucinations in given
conditions. On either hypothesis the topic is certainly
not without interest for the student of human nature.
Even if we could, at most, establish the fact that people
like Iamblichus, Mr. Crookes, Lord Crawford, Jesuits
in Canada, professional conjurors in Zululand, Span
iards in early Peru, Australian blacks, Maoris, Eskimo,
cardinals, ambassadors, are similarly hallucinated, as
they declare, in the presence of priests, diviners,
Home, Zulu magicians, Biraarks, Jossakeeds, angakut,
tohungas, and saints, and Mr. Stainton Moses, still the
identity of the false impressions is a topic for psycho
logical study. Or, if we disbelieve this cloud of wit
nesses, if they voluntarily fabled, we ask, why do they
all fable in exactly the same fashion? Even setting aside
Psychic Phenomena ■
199
the animistic hypothesis, the subject is full of curious
neglected problems."
Such is undoubtedly the case ! And it is also true that
many of these native rites and ceremonies are rapidly
disappearing before the march of modern civilization,
so that, unless they are studied soon, the opportunity to
study them will have gone forever. As savages cease to
be savages, our opportunities for learning their mystic
lore must decrease. I have often thought what a won
derful experience it would be to organize an expedition
to travel round the world, and study these native
magicians, rain-makers, voodoo doctors and wizards in
their native haunts, making notes, photographs and mo
tion pictures of their magical ceremonies in actual oper
ation! The resulting material would assuredly be of
great value, scientifically, and also from the purely
historic point-of-view. Perhaps, some day, such an ex
pedition will be organized.
Meanwhile, it is admittedly difficult to obtain first
hand, accurate accounts of such happenings, partly
because white men are seldom admitted to these cere
monies, and partly because they do not bother them
selves to investigate the accounts which they do hear,
being content, as a rule, to set down all such stories as
mere superstition on the part of the natives. Then, too,
there is the natural shrinking from appearing credulous
and ridiculous in the eyes of one's fellows, so that it is
more than probable that for every account which has
been published there are a hundred which have been
observed and secretly believed in by visiting Euro
peans. However, many such accounts have been pub
lished, and a number of these will be cited presently.
200 . The Psychic World
A few preliminary words may not be out of place,
however, regarding the inherent difficulties often in
volved in securing such evidence, and the even greater
difficulty in sifting and analyzing
it,
once secured. For,
even assuming that genuine psychic phenomena may at
times occur,
it
is
also true that savage peoples are ex
traordinarily credulous, superstitious, and inclined to
attribute any unusual natural happening to the agency
of spirits, ghosts, gods or demons. They are often fear-
ridden, priest-ridden and full believers
in
the most pre
posterous legends and traditions. All this must be taken
into account in estimating the evidence. The line of
demarcation
is
a
most difficult one, and can only be
drawn
in
a
most tentative and uncertain manner. Re
ports which might call for serious consideration,
if
given
by
white men, must often be discredited entirely
when given
by
credulous savages. At the same time,
there
is
no reason to disbelieve them a priori, as many
seem to think. They should be investigated impartially.
And when that
is
done,
it
is
often found that they rest
upon
a
substantial foundation of fact. This has often
been verified by open-minded investigators. Thus, there
is
no doubt that the American negro
is
extremely super
stitious; he
is
also very psychic.
It
becomes our task to
sift the wheat from the chaff. Our closest analogy prob
ably lies
in
the phenomena of Witchcraft, which were
reported
in
civilized communities,
in
relatively modern
times, and at the same time
in
a
highly uncritical and
superstitious age. An impartial survey of the evidence
might permit us to conclude that, while the vast bulk of
the material can be accounted for by modern psy-
chopathology and abnormal psychology, there never
theless remains an inexplicable residuum, which seems
Psychic Phenomena 201
to indicate very strongly the existence of genuine
psychic phenomena; and I may add that this was the
conclusion arrived at by Mr. Edmund Gurney, after
perusing more than two hundred and sixty books on the
subject, as he states in his celebrated "Note on Witch
craft," published in Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I,
pp. 172-85. Here he said:
"The part of the case for witchcraft which is now an
exploded superstition had never, even in its own day,
any real evidential foundation; while the part which
had a real foundation is now more firmly established
than ever."
It is my belief that a very similar state of affairs will
be found to exist with regard to psychic phenomena
among primitive peoples.
Before entering into a summary of the available evi
dence, however, one or two further remarks are neces
sitated as to the character of the material itself. It is
not my province to discuss in this paper any of the
actual beliefs of primitives, such as their ideas of the
soul, of a future life, demonology, etc. That would in
itself necessitate an enormous treatise, and the subject
has been ably covered by anthropologists before. Au
thorities such as Frazer may be consulted in this con
nection. Nor shall I attempt any outline of their various
religious philosophies, their secret organizations nor
the various schools of Occult training which flow from
them as a natural consequence. Thus, in China we find
the Golden Orchid Society, the Heaven-and-Earth So
ciety, etc., which—while they are partly Masonic and
Occult in character—are also largely political organiza
202 The Psychic World
tions. In Africa, the system of magic, demonology and
witchcraft is extremely complicated, and the same may
be said of the various islands scattered throughout the
Indian and Pacific oceans. In Africa and among the
natives of Haiti Voodoo is very prevalent —of which
more later. In India there are three or four distinct
categories of occult exponents, and a word or two may
not be out of place with regard to these, as there seems
to be so much confusion in the public mind with regard
to them, jumbling them all together in one common
class, whereas they are in reality quite distinct. We
have in the first place three kinds of Fakirs : The first
are little more than beggars who sit by the wayside and
are fed by the credulous populace; the second torture
their own bodies, lie upon beds of spikes, hold their
arms aloft until they become withered, permit them
selves to be buried alive while in a state of catalepsy,
etc. The third are the traveling conjurers or magicians,
who perform various tricks such as the mango tree
trick, the basket trick, the rope trick, snake charming,
and so forth. Lastly, we have the Yogis or holy men
who are genuine ascetics and hard to approach. They
are exponents of one of the various Yoga systems, prev
alent in India, the object of which is to arouse latent
psychic powers and ultimately to attain Cosmic Con
sciousness. The methods by which this is to be accom
plished are detailed, complicated and laborious. For
those who may be interested, I may perhaps state that I
have given an epitome of this system in my Higher
Psychical Development, while the various tricks of the
Hindu Fakirs are explained in my little book on Hindu
Magic. The feats of the Egyptian Fakirs are very
similar, and it may be said that their control of the
Psychic Phenomena 203
functions of the body is genuine and very remarkable,
while the state of catalepsy (in which they are buried
alive) is also real and worthy of prolonged physiologi
cal investigation. I have had the opportunity of study
ing several of these Fakirs at close range, and over
considerable periods of time, and feel assured that the
state of self-imposed catalepsy is a genuine and very
extraordinary one. (See The Story of Psychic Science,
pp. 1
83-91.)
All these systems, however, are peculiar to the peo
ples involved, and would require extensive treatment in
themselves. As before stated, it is not the province of
this book to deal with these questions at length (though
it would be improper to avoid mentioning them) but
rather with instances of telepathy, clairvoyance, pre
monition, etc., which bear close analogy to similar cases
reported and published by the various Societies for
Psychical Research. We may then be in a better posi
tion to judge their points of similarity and their possible
differences. These cases are all summarized or quoted
from various sources, and in every instance seem to
rest upon respectable authority. Confirmatory evidence
is given wherever possible.
Telepathy and Clairvoyance
Let us first of all consider certain cases of apparent
telepathy and clairvoyance which have been reported,
placing these together, because it is often difficult to
distinguish them, owing to the nature of the accounts
themselves. Indeed, it has often been found difficult
even in new and well-attested cases, occurring in our
midst, which are of visual or pictographic character,
and Mr. Gurney, as we know, was often forced to
204 The Psychic World
speak of "telepathic clairvoyance," while as shrewd a
critic of the evidence as Mr. Theodore Besterman came
to the conclusion that much of the material commonly
classed as telepathic may be in reality clairvoyant in
character. These occurrences may all be distinguished,
however, from prophetic or premonitory cases, on the
one hand, and apparitional cases, on the other, while
the mediumistic phenomena constitute a class in them
selves. We may accordingly consider them somewhat
in that order.
By way of introduction, I may perhaps quote a few
sentences from an article by J. Shepley Part, M.D.,
Late Assistant to the Gold Coast Colony, who, in an
article entitled "A Few Notes on Occultism in West
Africa," says:
"When I first went to Africa, few men probably were
more skeptical on such subjects as clairvoyance, appari
tions and the so-called supernatural generally; I had of
course heard the popular smatterings of these things
and, when I did, had, in the usual style, put all down to
fiction, over-excited brain, suggestion or auto-sugges
tion and the like. I hope to advance some evidence . . .
that phenomena do at times occur that are not explain
able by ordinary scientific methods, and that certain
men can avail themselves of forces which are beyond
the ken of the ordinary individual. It is certain that
when I was first brought into contact with such things
I was incredulous, and, as a consequence, put them on
one side for a considerable time as not worth investiga
tion—much to my subsequent regret. . . .
"I have repeatedly been told by well-educated and
broadminded natives (and such do exist) that it is pos
Psychic Phenomena 205
sible for certain trained individuals to 'project their
consciousness' to a distance irrespective of time and
space, and to do so while retaining a continuity of con
sciousness with that in their ordinary condition. We
also hear the fact stated in this way : that the individual
has the power to go to any place without regard to time
or distance, etc., and it is not an uncommon remark to
hear that so-and-so has been to such-and-such a place
'during the night,' or 'yesterday afternoon,' or 'this
morning,' such journey being out of all possibility by
ordinary means. . . .
"Towards the end of the last Ashantee expedition I
happened to be stationed on the coast at the termina
tion of the shortest route from Kumassi to the coast.
A day before the expected entry of the expedition into
Kumassi, I was informed by my boy that the Governor
had entered the town at noon (this was about 1.30).
About an hour later I was told the same thing in the
town by an old chief, an educated man, who, when I
laughed at
it,
remarked that native means of communi
cation were much more rapid than ours.
I
may mention
that the upper portion of the line was
in
charge of the
Royal Engineers, and the coast lines under reserve for
Government wires only. The news was confirmed the
following evening
by
official wire. The head of the mili
tary wire was some 30 to 36 hours distance from
Kumassi, so this excludes irresponsible chattering
by
the operators. As to runners, we were five days at the
shortest for special runners from the front. The route
is
entirely through forest country, and,
in
regard to
water transit of sound from drums, there
is
no direct
access to the coast from Kumassi
by
water. . .
.
With
regard to the means by which these phenomena are ob
206 The Psychic World
tained —these are secret, and their professors are mem
bers of a secret society. But I was informed on good
authority that the process gone through to obtain the
power of clairvoyance as exemplified above is purely
physical, and requires —when the means have been
taught—but constant practice to bring the several
stages to perfection, but that special means are used
in each stage, initiation being necessary to each stage
of development, and then only on approval of the
chiefs of the order, which is very stringently guarded.
Only a very few are initiated into the highest develop
ment.
"The stages may be divided as under:
"i. Simple clairvoyance.
"2. The paying of 'astral visits' or projection of
the consciousness only.
"3. The same as 2, with power to materialize the
entity projected or ... to affect material objects. ... In
conclusion, I can only reiterate that, as to ways and
means in detail, I am in the dark. . . ."
The first case is taken from Mr. R. W. Felkin's book
From Khartoum to the Source of the Nile. He writes :
"I had not received any letters from Europe for a
year, and was of course very anxious to get some. I
knew quite well that a good many must be waiting for
me somewhere, but it was hardly likely that they would
come to hand for some time, because the Nile was
blocked by the floating islands of grass. One morning,
however, a man came into our tent in a state of great
excitement. The local m'logo, or wizard, he said, had
been roaming up the country the night before in the
Psychic Phenomena 207
form of a jackal. He had, the messenger went on,
visited a place called Meschera-er-Rek (which was
some 550 miles distant from Lado, our camping place)
and had seen two steamers, one of them with mails for
our party. Also, the steamers were commanded by a
white pasha, who was minutely described. Now, in the
ordinary course of nature the man could not possibly
have covered so vast a stretch of country in one night
nor even in twenty nights. I ridiculed the whole thing
as absolutely absurd. We were having our coffee at the
time, and Emin seemed inclined to give credence to the
story, for he suddenly rose up and said he would have
the man brought before him. In due time the wizard . . .
was marched into our tent, and Emin at once addressed
him in Arabic saying, 'Where did you go last night?'
"
'I was at Meschera-er-Rek,' he replied in the same
tongue.
" 'What were you doing there?'
" 'I went to see some friends.'
"'What did you see?'
"
'I saw two steamers arriving from Khartoum.'
" 'Oh, this is nonsense! You could not possibly have
been at Meschera-er-Rek last night.'
" 'I was there,' came the tacit rejoinder, 'and with
the steamer was an Englishman —a short man with a
big beard.'
" 'Well, what was he doing —what was his mission?'
"
'He says that the great Pasha at Khartoum has sent
him, and he has got some papers for you. He is starting
overland tomorrow to come to you, bringing the papers
with him, and he will be here about thirty days from
now.'
"As a matter of fact ... the m'logo's statement
208 The Psychic World
proved absolutely correct. In thirty-two days an Eng
lishman did arrive in our camp, bringing letters for us
from Khartoum. More than this, we knew from the
wizard's description that Lupton Bey, and none other,
was the man who was coming."
The next case was reported by Mr. David Leslie,
S.A., a well-known hunter and explorer, to Cyril Camp
bell, former war correspondent of the London Times
during the Balkan troubles. Mr. Leslie says :
"I had sent out my native elephant hunters with
instructions to meet me on a certain date at a selected
spot. I arrived there at the appointed time ; but none of
my hunters had put in an appearance. Having nothing
much to do, I went to a native doctor who had a great
reputation, just to amuse myself and see what the man
would say. At first the doctor refused to tell anything
because, he said, he had no knowledge of white men's
affairs. At last he consented and said he would 'open
the gate of distance and would travel through it,' even
though it would cost him his life. He then demanded
the names and number of the hunters. I demurred at
first but finally did as he requested. The doctor then
made eight fires, one for each hunter, and cast into
them roots which burned with a sickly-smelling smoke.
The man took some medicine and fell into a trance for
about ten minutes, his limbs moving all the time. When
he came round from the trance, he raked out the ashes
of his first fire, and described the appearance of the
man represented by
it,
and said 'This man has died of
fever and his gun
is
lost.' He then said the second
hunter had killed four elephants, and described the
Psychic Phenomena 209
shape and size of the tusks. He said the next had been
killed by an elephant, but that the gun was coming home
all right. Then he described the appearance and for
tunes of the next, adding that the survivors would not
be home for three months, and would travel by a route
different from that agreed upon. The affair turned out
correct in every particular, and, as the hunters were
scattered over a country over two hundred miles away,
the man could hardly have obtained news of them from
other natives. Nor did the diviner know that he was
going to be consulted
"
Here is another example of native clairvoyance.*
"An English wild-rubber buyer lost a dispatch box,
containing business papers of great importance. It dis
appeared in the course of a day's march. The trader
made inquiries, searched the trail, but found nothing.
The box had evidently been stolen. At the sea-port he
confided in an English friend and he suggested con
sulting a witch-doctor. The magician was produced : he
was taken to the district where he placed the palms of
his hands over the boy's eyes. Both stood up. The witch
doctor lifted a hot pot and placed it on the subject's
head. Neither seemed to feel the heat —apparently suf
ficient to sear flesh. The old man then proceeded to
grip the boy's hands firmly over the pot's rim, then
smear his face with the simmering mixture. It cooled
and hardened, and apparently closed the boy's eyes,
nostrils and mouth. No breathing was discernible. The
old man began to talk, the youth to sway. No one
understood his words, which were uttered with emo-
• Occult Review, March, 1909.
210 The Psychic World
tional enthusiasm. A final shout and the boy suddenly
became alive, ran three times round the ring, and
brought the pot down on the head of an inconspicuous
negro in the crowd. The victim fell moaning; the pot-
bearer started running to the near-by woods, followed
by all. He stumbled, fell head-long, tore his skin on
briars, careened against tree trunks, but kept on. For
three hours he ran. At last, still in a state of trance,
and faint from exhaustion, he fell prostrate over a log
at the edge of the swamp, and did not get up. Under
his head, half buried in the mud, was the dispatch box.
. . . Thief, witch-doctor and boy all denied collusion. To
the Englishman's queries, he replied with the empty
word he had learned from the white men—magic !"
Under the title of "Extraordinary News Transfer
ence," Mr. R. M. Bloch records the following experi
ence which occurred in his own life (Occult Review,
December, 1918) :
"Some years ago I was up in the interior of Ashanti,
a goodish distance from civilization, as represented
even by a stray magistrate. On the Monday evening I
and my partner had a difference of opinion, and we
agreed to part, so next morning I made tracks for
Cape Coast Castle, about 150 miles distant. Now, with
the exception of Government runners, a white man,
traveling light, i.e., without much baggage or a ham
mock, covers the ground considerably faster than any
native, and I got down to the little town shortly after
Saturday noon. I dropped into the first store and had a
drink, when to my surprise the man in charge re
marked, 'Sorry to hear your partner pegged out.' I
Psychic Phenomena 211
replied it was nonsense, since I had left him only five
days before perfectly fit, but the store-keeper assured
me the news had come through on the Thursday eve
ning, X having died the day before. And within a week
his boys struggled down with his kit.
"The amazing part of this case is the fact of the
news coming down to the coast, without filtering
through to the boys who accompanied me, for, had they
known
it,
they would infallibly have told me, and
I
naturally would have turned back. This obviously pre
cludes the possibility of runners carrying the news,
while even
if
we postulate drums or other forms of
signaling,
it
seems strange that
I
should only hear of
the tragedy at the end of the journey, and not at any
of the intermediate villages where
I
stopped the night.
...
I
am at
a
loss to explain the incident."
The following are two or three instances of the same
character which were investigated by Mr. Blackburn
of Johannesburg, and sent to the same periodical.
While
I
can see no reason for doubting the sincerity or
accuracy of any of these accounts, they are perhaps less-
well evidenced, and
I
shall accordingly be content to
summarize them briefly:
1. A magistrate at King Williamstown during the
border wars stated that one day the son of the chief we
were fighting against came into court with his head
shaved. (This native was
a
clerk
in
the office.) The
magistrate quickly recognized the sign of mourning,
and asked what relation was dead. The youth stated his
father had at last been killed
in
the war, and even men
tioned the spot where the body was lying. The magis
trate thought the whole thing strange, for he had heard
212 The Psychic World
nothing by telegraph : but soon after, a telegram came,
giving details of the news, which fitted in with the de
scription given by the native.
2. At 9 A.M. on a Monday, a Kafir herd-boy was
attacked by a bull. He defended himself with a crow
bar. Kafir and bull were dead by io A.M. At 12 the
same day B, a farmer residing forty-two miles from the
scene of the tragedy, appended this postscript to a busi
ness letter: "My Kafirs are saying your herd-boy
stabbed your red Devon bull with a long knife and that
both are dead. Hope it is only a Kafir yarn." The
letter was dispatched by mounted messenger before
12.30 the same day.
3. A Kafir was being tried for manslaughter at
Johannesburg. At 5 in the afternoon an old Kafir
woman on a Boer's farm thirty-eight miles from
Johannesburg stated that the boy had been acquitted,
and that the principal witness against him had been
taken to prison. As the Kafir had pleaded guilty at the
preliminary hearing, and was to be undefended, this
result seemed extremely improbable. Later it was
learned that the Kafir was given counsel at the last
moment, the plea of guilty withdrawn, and he was
acquitted at 3.15 P.M. At 4 that afternoon the princi
pal witness was knocked down by a cab in the street,
and taken to the jail hospital, where he died. In each
of these cases the accurate news traveled in less than
half the time that would have been required by the
fastest horse. Mr. Blackburn sums up as follows :
"That news is sometimes transmitted under condi
tions unknown to Europeans
is,
I
am satisfied,
a
fact;
but the explanation lies neither
in
the legs of
a
horse
nor the lungs of
a
Kafir."
Psychic Phenomena 213
What is meant by the last remark is simply this.
One of the "explanations" commonly advanced for
cases of this type is that a native stands upon some hill
top and shouts aloud the news to a native upon the
next hill-top, and so on over a great stretch of coun
try. That natives can convey information over great
distances in this way is undoubtedly true, and in times
of great national excitement might well be the case.
But such a system would require a pre-arranged chain
of receivers, alert and ready, and to assume that such a
chain exists for the transmission of trivial and unex
pected incidents seems far-fetched indeed. Further
more, the nature of the country itself often prevents
any such system from operating; for example, the inter
vention of dense forest, etc. This explanation must be
very limited in its scope. Normal methods of news-
transmission, by men afoot or on horseback, have fre
quently been excluded, and their possibility denied by
numerous careful investigators.
Doubtless, one of the commonest forms of news-
transmission, and one of the most difficult to eliminate
effectually, is that of signaling by means of drums or
columns of smoke. It is well known that such
means are frequently employed. However, experienced
colonials assert that this is limited, almost exclusively,
to matters of importance, such as native unrest or the
passage of a white man through the country. To as
sume that, e.g., the news that a Kafir herd-boy had been
hurt by a bull should have been transmitted in this
manner seems incredible indeed, for such an event must
be a common occurrence in that country. Further, de
tails are often given which no amount of signaling
could satisfactorily account for—such as the personal
214 The Psychic World
appearance of a man, what he was doing at the time,
in what position his body was lying, etc. Such details
would hardly be transmitted over hundreds of miles,
since they would doubtless be considered of no con
sequence by the natives themselves. Finally, we have the
specific assurance, in many cases, that no drums were
available —as in the above instance of the lost elephant
hunters. Doubtless, news is occasionally transmitted by
this means, but to attempt to account for many of the
recorded incidents, with all their details, by means of
smoke columns, tom-toms, etc., seems little short of pre
posterous, and is an example of the lengths to which
skeptics will go before admitting the possibility of some
genuine telepathic faculty which may be evidenced at
such times. That some sixth sense is employed by the
natives, upon occasion, seems beyond reasonable doubt;
and this
is,
indeed, their own explanation of such mat
ters. They call this sixth sense "The Ear of the Great
Mother."
Let us not wander too far afield, however,
in
theory,
but rather continue our narration of specific instances.
We shall come to explanations, and their own formula,
later on.
Mr. Carveth Wells (in his Six Years in the Malay
Jungle, pp. 205-6) has narrated an interesting case of
experimental clairvoyance,
in
which he tested
a
native
magician, Tok Sami, who accurately divined for him
the colors of dice contained within
a
brass box —not
once, but several times; and repeated the same feat for
his wife some months later.
From Africa and Malay we turn to North America,
and find similar incidents narrated about the American
Indians. The following account, for example,
is
given
Psychic Phenomena 215
by General Browne, of the U.S. Army, being originally
published by him in the Atlantic Monthly, xviii, pp.
118 seq. (See also D. G. Brinton, The Myths of the
New World, p. 270.)
"The medicine-man whom I knew best," says Gen
eral Browne, "was Ma-que-a-pos (the Wolf's Word),
an ignorant and unintellectual person. I knew him per
fectly well. His nature was simple, innocent, and harm
less, devoid of cunning, and wanting in those fierce traits
that make up the Indian character. His predictions
were sometimes absolutely astounding On one oc
casion a party of voyageurs set out from Fort Benton,
the remotest post of the American Fur Company, for
the purpose of finding the Kaine, or Blood Band of the
northern Blackfeet. Their route lay almost due north,
crossing the British line near the Chief Mountain and
the great lake Omax-een. . . . The expedition was
perilous in its commencement, and the danger increased
with each day's journey. . . . The party of adventurers
soon found that they were in the thickest of the Cree
war-party operations, and so full of danger was every
day's travel that a council was called, and seven of the
ten turned back. . . .
"On the afternoon of the last day, four young In
dians were seen who, after a cautious approach, made
the sign of peace, laid down their arms, and came
forward, announcing themselves to be Blackfeet of the
Blood Band. They were sent out, they said, by Ma-que-
a-pos, to find three whites mounted on horses of a pecu
liar color, dressed in garments accurately described to
them, and armed with weapons which they, without see
216 The Psychic World
ing them, minutely described. The whole history of the
expedition had been detailed to them by Ma-que-a-pos.
The purpose of the journey, the personnel of the party,
the exact locality at which to find the three who per
severed, had been detailed by him with as much
fidelity as could have been done by one of the whites
themselves. And so convinced were the Indians of the
truth of the old man's 'medicine,' that the four young
men were sent to appoint a rendezvous, for four days
later, at a spot a hundred miles distant. On arriving
there, accompanied by the young Indians, the whites
found the entire camp of Rising Head, a noted war
chief awaiting them. The objects of the expedition were
speedily accomplished, and the whites, after a few days'
rest, returned to safer haunts. The writer of this paper
was at the head of the party of whites, and himself
met the Indian messengers.
"Upon questioning the chief men of the Indian camp,
many of whom afterwards became my warm personal
friends, and one of them my adopted brother, no sus
picion of the facts, as narrated, could be sustained.
Ma-que-a-pos could give no explanation beyond the
general one—that he 'saw us coming, and heard us talk
on our journey.' He had not, during that time, been
absent from the Indian camp.
"A subsequent intimate acquaintance with Ma-que-
a-pos disclosed a remarkable 'medicine' faculty as ac
curate as it was inexplicable. He was tested in every
way and almost always stood the test successfully. Yet
he never claimed that the gift entitled him to any par
ticular regard, except as the instrument of a power he
did not pretend to understand
"
Psychic Phenomena 217
Under the heading of "Savage Telepathy," an inter
esting case was published in the Journal S.P.R., Janu
ary, 1926. It was reported by Commander R. Jukes
Hughes, R.N., through Mr. Theodore Besterman.
Commander Hughes says :
"In the year 1878, I happened to be serving under
a Govt. Commission in the Transkei (S.A.). Our Chief
was Col. J. T. Eustace, R.M., with Kreli the Chief of
the Gealakas, and the third member was Capt. T.
Sansom. At the time I am writing of, our work was
near the right bank of the Bashee River The
Geaike-Gealaka war was recently over and the Transkei
was absolutely clear of natives. The Commission em
ployed about a dozen natives, but their work for the
same kept them from roaming the country.
"One day they came to us rather excited and an
nounced that there had been a great disaster in Zulu-
land, that our troops had been overwhelmed by the
Zulus, who were pouring into Natal. We had an im
mediate consultation as to what we should do, as if the
rumor was correct it was possible that a general rising
of all the Kafirs west of the Tugela River would take
place, in which case we should have to scuttle for the
Old Colony with our horses and leave the wagons to
their fate ; but within a few hours we had further news
through the same agency, stating that the strain had
been relieved—this was the result of the noble stand
made by the handful of troops at Rorke's Drift.
"News of the disaster did not reach us officially until
two days after the event.
"We were roughly speaking some 300 miles (as the
crow flies) from the scene of the disaster, with some
218 The Psychic World
very rough country between, including several rivers.
For some years I lived under canvas in those parts, so
had a fair knowledge of the difficulties of travel."
In reply to further questions, Commander Hughes
states :
"The events occurring in Zululand were reported to
us within an hour or so, if not quicker, of their occur
rence. ... In my opinion it was absolutely impossible
for natives to have obtained the information by normal
means, certainly not by water communication."
In his "International Notes," (Journal, A.S.P.R.,
April, 1926, pp. 233-36), Mr. Harry Price quoted an
interesting article by General Sir James Willcocks en
titled "Second Sight in the East," which appeared
originally in the London Evening News, in which
several cases are given of apparent clairvoyance. In
one of these, a child was saved from premature burial
by the advice of a Brahmin; in another a lost article
was found, while the third is an example of the seem
ing glamour cast over spectators by the visiting Yogi.
This last instance is of particular interest because of
its possible bearing upon one of the best-known and
most-disputed feats performed by Oriental Fakirs: I
refer to the celebrated "Rope Trick," in which a rope
is thrown into the air, a boy climbs up and is lost to
view, and (in some of the more dramatic versions) his
limbs and trunk fall to earth, where they piece them
selves together again, leaving him as smiling and happy
as before ! There seems to be hardly an individual who
does not know this story, and narrate it with great
Psychic Phenomena 219
gusto (however skeptical he may be otherwise) to
gether with the still more incredible sequel, that a
camera failed to record anything of the sort, when its
exposed plates were developed ! Ergo, the spectators
were hallucinated!
Now, a number of investigators have tried in vain to
see this performance, or even to obtain some first-hand
evidence from those who claimed to have seen
it,
but
always without success. My own father (who was quite
interested
in
such things) lived for ten years
in
India,
but while he saw the stock feats many times, he was
never enabled to see the famous rope exploit, or to
discover any one who had seen it. This,
I
may add,
is
the opinion of many competent observers, such as Kel-
lar, Thurston, Bertram, Seeman, Major Branson, Dr.
Richard Hodgson, and others. Hodgson,
in
his paper
on "Indian Magic and the Testimony of Conjurers,"
traced back this story to the fourteenth century, and
it
has been repeated by many others since. The theory
usually advanced
is
that the spectators were
in
some
way hypnotized by the Fakir, and that what they
thought they saw was merely the product of their own
imagination. There
is,
however, scant evidence that col
lective or mass hypnotism of this sort
is
practicable;
there
is
no analogy
in
the annals of hypnotism which
would entitle us to believe such
a
thing possible. On the
contrary, there are many indications that the tradi
tional story
is
merely
a
yarn—such as the fact that
some of the "photographs" which were published
in
support of the story turned out, upon investigation, to
be woodcuts
!
Since the above was written, however,
it
is
only fair
to say that one form of this famous exploit has been
220 The Psychic World
seen and photographed by Mr. Harry Price, and he
has given us the details, together with an excellent
photograph, in his book Confessions of a Ghost
Hunter, pp. 344-54. The performer in this case,
Karachi, was assisted by his son Kyder, and the demon
stration was given in a large field at Wheathampstead,
England, in January, 1935. A number of well-known
persons witnessed the feat, in which a rope, about eight
feet in length, apparently ascended of its own volition
skyward, and was climbed by the magician's son, who
was photographed in the act of doing so ! To be sure,
this was not the traditional rope trick, but it repre
sented the nearest approach to it which has been seen
under what might be called test conditions. I refer the
reader to Mr. Price's interesting account for further
details of this historic and fascinating episode. Below
is appended a list of the more important references to
this feat, in which the reader will find the subject thor
oughly discussed.*
It may be thought that I have dwelt at undue length
upon this famous rope exploit, but, as I have indicated,
it is of extreme importance because it bears upon the
question of collective hallucination, a theory which has
from time to time been advanced to explain the phe
nomena observed in the presence of D. D. Home,
Eusapia Palladino, and other mediums. From the above
• Indian Conjuring, by Major L. H. Branson; Around the World
with a Magician and a Juggler, by Baron Hartwig Seeman; Up and
Down and Round About the World, by Harry Kellar; Hindu Magic,
by Hereward Carrington; Hindu Magic, by Howard Thurston; The
Fraud of Theosophy Exposed, by John Nevil Maskelyne; The Con
fessions of a Ghost Hunter, by Harry Price; Indian Magic and the
Testimony of Conjurers, by Dr. Richard Hodgson ; Proceedings
S.P.R., Vol. IX, pp. 354-66; Journal S.P.R., Vol. IV, p. 107; V, 8o,
84, 195; XIX, 124; XX, 401-2; XXIV, U4, 137-38, 311, 34s; XXV,
179-80, etc.
Psychic Phenomena 221
it will be seen that there is little respectable evidence
for such extraordinary mass hypnotism, and conse
quently that the objective character of the observed
phenomena in the presence of these mediums receives
an added, independent verification. The hallucination
theory receives little support from our study of Orien
tal magic and mystery.
Cases of Prediction
To return, however, from this digression to our ac
count of apparently genuine psychic experiences among
primitive peoples. I may next give a small group of
cases of prediction, in which some future event was
foretold, or supernormal knowledge was displayed of
occurrences about to happen. Several interesting cases
of the kind have been published by Mr. Theodore
Besterman, in the Occult Review, November, 1926,
and January, 1927, and I am indebted to him for sev
eral valuable references. Also to an article in the same
periodical for February, 1923. It is interesting to note
that such occurrences are scattered throughout the
world—one being reported in Central Africa, another
in India, a third in Australia, a fourth in Fiji, and so
on. . . . Yet these accounts bear a striking similarity one
to another! This only bears out what has been said
above regarding the universality of such phenomena.
Thus, in the cases which follow, it will be observed that
the first is from South Africa, the second from Central
Africa, the third from Mesopotamia; while others
come to us from New Guinea, Borneo, Sumatra, Java,
North America, India, the South Sea Islands, etc. Yet
all these cases seem to be indicative of genuine super
222 The Psychic World
normal occurrences of the same general type. Let us
first take a case from South Africa.
The Rev. Canon (afterwards Bishop) Callaway,
M.D., gives an interesting case in his book The Reli
gious System of the Amazulu, thus summarized by Ed
ward Lawrence, F.R.A.I.
A number of natives having a quarrel with their own
tribe on the Tukela river settled with a relative
among the Amahlongwa, and lived with him as de
pendents in his village. Soon after settling there, a
young child was seized with convulsions, and, thor
oughly alarmed at his condition, some young men,
cousins of the child, were deputed to consult a "Witch,"
who divined correctly by the aid of "familiar spirits."
After waiting in her hut a long time in dead silence a
voice, as of a very little child, was heard, as if pro
ceeding from the roof, and saluted them. Then "the
spirits" began by saying: "You have come to inquire
about something." The woman said: "Tell them. They
say you have come to inquire about something." So they
smote the ground in token of assent. The spirits de
clared that the matter which brought them there was
of great importance; an omen had appeared in some
one. Smiting the ground once again, the inquirers
asked: "How big is the person in whom the omen has
appeared?" The spirits answered: "It is a young per
son." Then the spirits went on to say that the omen
was bodily; that the person affected was a boy, that the
boy was still young—too young, in fact, to attend to the
herds. "There he
is,
we see him;
it
is
as
if
he had con
vulsions." The spirits then went on to detail
in
a
most
minute and correct manner the time when the first
convulsion took place, and the character of the attack,
Psychic Phenomena 223
and what was done and said by the mother and others.
They declared the suffering boy was the only child of
his father. He was their brother, but really not their
brother but their real cousin. The cousins were told
to return home and sacrifice a white he-goat and then
pour its gall on the invalid, and give him a certain
medicine to drink. The lads went home, sacrificed the
goat, poured the gall over the child, and gave him the
medicine. Dr. Callaway declared : "And the child never
had an attack of convulsions after, and is living to this
day, a strong, healthy young man." He adds that the
wise woman lived a considerable distance from the
kraal of those who inquired of her, and they had never
seen her before.
Dr. Callaway also instanced the case of a native
named Umpengula, who was in service at Pietermaritz-
burg. He had a dream and in it saw his brother Un-
dayeni, dressed in his finest attire and dancing at a
wedding. On awakening he had a strong impression
that his brother had died. Unable to shake this im
pression off, he repeatedly burst into tears, and looked
constantly in the direction by which a messenger must
come with the news. During the morning the messenger
came. On seeing him, he said, "I know why you are
come. Undayeni is dead." He was dead!
Sir Harry Johnston, in his work on British Central
Africa, relates that on one occasion his journey on
Lake Nyasa was held up on account of the non-arrival
of the steamer. To soothe his anxiety, "Jumbe" of
Kotakota —a Coast Arab and Wali, or representative
of the Sultan of Zanzibar —sent for his necromancer,
who was to ascertain, by means of sand, what the fu
ture held in store for him as regards steamer com
224 The Psychic World
munication. The necromancer informed them that the
steamer the Ilala, had run aground on the rocks, but
that another steamer, called the Charles Janson, would
shortly call for the great traveler. Sir Harry Johnston
states: "This information turned out to be perfectly
correct," for eventually the Charles Janson, with Arch
deacon Maples on board, came to fetch him and convey
him on his journey.
The Reverend W. A. Wigram, D.D., lived for ten
years with the tribes of Eastern Kurdistan, spoke their
language, and understood their traditions and super
stitions. From this out-of-the-way corner of the world,
from the "Cradle of Mankind," as he called
it,
he has
given us some remarkable illustrations of second sight.
He mentions the case of
a
seer whom his fellow tribes
men consulted on all matters of importance, and who
foretold
a
certain disaster that would befall them
in
a
special raid which they contemplated. "If you go to
battle now," said he, "you will flee seven ways before
the Mussulmans; and, though you yourself, chief, will
be saved
by
a
willow tree, death will be my portion."
The raid took place, the Christians being routed by
the Mohammedans and scattered. A random shot put
an end to the life of the seer, whom the Kurds intended
to spare; the chief himself took to flight, his own life
being saved through clinging to
a
projecting branch
of
a
willow which over-hung the river Zab he was at
tempting to swim.
Dr. Wigram narrates
a
still more remarkable case,
in
which
a
certain Nwiya,
a
Prophet, came running to
him
in
the morning, telling him that two expected
travelers would arrive that day, coming up
a
certain
valley; that one of them would wear
a
black hat and the
Psychic Phenomena 225
other a white one, and giving other details. That after
noon the two travelers arrived up the valley, one wear
ing an astrakhan fur cap, the other a sun-helmet. Dr.
Wigram concludes : "Any suspicion of confederacy may
be ruled out of the question without hesitation, for it
was a physical impossibility; and clairvoyance, or some
form of thought-transference, seems to be the most
natural explanation of so strange a coincidence of state
ment and fact."
This, indeed, seems the conclusion to which many
observers have been forced, after having obtained a
first-hand knowledge of the facts. Thus, the late Samuel
Pollard, who lived as a missionary among the aborig
ines of Western China for many years, states that he
watched native mediums at work many times, only to be
convinced that, in many cases, the phenomena were false
and made to order. "But," he continues, "do what you
will, you cannot always be sure that there is not some
real phenomenon here, though you are not so sure that
you can explain it."
Again, Mr. Edward Lawrence says {Open Court,
February, 1919, p. 78) :
"Travelers who relate these stories are unable to ac
count for them or find any satisfactory explanation.
But coincidences like those narrated continually occur,
and make one think that there must exist a side to sav
age superstition which requires further elucidation, and
which the white man has been unable to fathom."
The Reverend C. E. Fox, of San Cristobal, Solo
mon Islands, asserted that spiritualism in all its forms
was much practiced by the natives. All sorts of phe
226 The Psychic World
nomena —apparently well authenticated—had been
reported. Levitation, movements of physical objects
without human agency, mysterious lights, second sight,
mediums, appearances of burns on a wizard when a
brand was thrown at his wraith, ghostly smells and other
startling manifestations were declared to have occurred.
Mr. Carl Lumholt, M.A., gives an account of a proph
ecy by a native of Central Mexico, fulfilled four days
later; and Mr. Joseph F. Woodroff, who spent eight
years in the upper Amazon, narrates another, in which
his boat was wrecked, as foretold by a native diviner.
Mr. Grahame Houblon has narrated a psychic in
cident in Mesopotamia, (Occult Review, March,
1925), in which a native named Balloo told him of a
battle and who had been killed and injured. The account
is,
however, second-hand. Mr. Houblon concludes that:
"Telepathy ... would seem to be nature's first con
trivance for the exchange of ideas, and what we see of
it
among civilized humans
is
an insignificant survival,
just as the little tuatera lizard of New Zealand
is
the
insignificant surviving representative of the once om
nipresent order of dinosaurs."
Apparitions and Haunted Houses
We now turn to
a
consideration of
a
small group of
apparitional cases, in which
a
ghost has been seen under
conditions which render ordinary explanations difficult
if
not impossible. Curious as
it
may seem, these are ap
parently the rarest of all—at least
I
have found
it
next
to impossible to unearth well-authenticated cases. The
reason for this
is
certainly not because of the paucity
of material, since ghosts are so frequent among primi
tive peoples as to be taken almost as
a
matter-of-course.
Psychic Phenomena 227
However, occurrences of this type may usually be ex
plained as due to hallucination, expectancy, suggestion,
etc., and are different from our own well-authenticated
cases of veridical apparitions. Coincidental cases of this
type are hard to verify, even in our own country, and
it is probable that white men have rarely deigned to in
vestigate reported instances of this type, dismissing
them off-hand as mere superstitions. Cases of clear-cut
prediction are not so easily dismissed, and doubtless
made a greater impression upon the white men present
at the time. It is probably because of this fact that
greater numbers of them are available.
The following account comes to us from New
Guinea, giving the writer's experience in a haunted
house. It contains several points of unusual interest,
particularly the item of the visible foot-prints. The
reader will, perhaps, be reminded of a similar incident
in Bulwer Lytton's The House and the Brain.
Captain A. W. Monclcton, F.R.G.S., F.Z.S., tells the
following story in his book Some Experiences of a New
Guinea Resident Magistrate (p. 109). "I tell the story
for what it is worth," he writes, "and I leave my
readers who are interested in psychical research to
form what opinion they choose. All I say is that the
story, as narrated, is absolutely true."
The author was staying alone in the house of a man
named Moreton, at Samarai, Moreton being elsewhere
at the time ; he was Resident Magistrate of the Eastern
Division.
Captain Monclcton tells us that he was sitting, writ
ing, one evening, busily engaged on his work, when he
suddenly became aware that the doors leading onto the
front and back verandas of the house were both wide
228 The Psychic World
open. Almost unconsciously, he got up and closed them.
Soon thereafter he heard foot-steps on the coral walk
outside, which crossed the palm-floored veranda, and
stalked across the room. He glanced up, saw no one,
but was so preoccupied that he paid no particular atten
tion to them, thinking it was one of the native servants.
This, however, occurred a second time; the foot
steps first being heard on the walk, then on the veranda,
and finally in the room in which he was writing. The
steps seemed perfectly solid and natural, and it never
occurred to Captain Monckton that they were in any
sense supernormal. They squeaked on the palm-floored
veranda and resounded on the boards in his room. This
time they appeared to pass directly behind his chair.
More alert to the situation, Captain Monckton
looked up, and noted with surprise that the doors were
again open —the doors he had closed but a few moments
before. This time he made sure that he shut them se
curely; nor could he see anything in the room or on the
veranda to account for the foot-steps. No one was
visible !
Thoroughly interested now, Captain Monckton
called the servants, going out onto the porch to do so.
While he was there, the foot-steps resounded in the
room behind him, which was well lighted by the read
ing lamp. Still nothing visible !
The servants (who had also heard the steps) were
told that they must find the intruder, as Captain Monck
ton did not wish to be disturbed in this manner ! They
said that they had seen no one but that they would
look. Exploration of the house and surrounding
grounds failed to disclose any one, or any reason for
the disturbances.
Psychic Phenomena 229
A third time, the same thing was repeated. Despite
the watchers, the foot-steps were heard advancing up the
coral walk, across the veranda, and finally across the
brilliantly lighted room ! The most interesting feature
of the case, however, is that, on this third occasion, the
depressions made by the "invisible feet" could be dis
tinctly seen on the palm-floored veranda, which "gave"
slightly, under each step !
Whatever Captain Monckton may have thought,
(and he offers no opinion or explanation) he moved to
the ship for the night and slept on board. Nothing of
the sort ever happened again, and a year later the house
was pulled down. Before this, however, the author had
sat up in it on purpose, with a man named Armit,
Health Officer and Collector of Customs, but the in
vestigation produced no results. Armit, on this occa
sion, mentioned that Moreton, the former occupant,
had once or twice hinted at something queer having
happened. Moreton himself was therefore interviewed
on the subject. He also admitted hearing foot-steps on
former occasions, when he occupied the house.
A somewhat similar case is narrated by Oscar Cook,
late District Officer, North Borneo Civil Service, in his
enchanting volume, Borneo: Stealer of Hearts. Here,
also, foot-steps were heard walking about the house,
but in this case the phantom was seen independently by
two other witnesses —one of whom shot at the figure !
No normal explanation was forthcoming.
Poltergeist Cases
Our next case is a poltergeist, in which physical phe
nomena occurred, similar to our own instances of this
type. In poltergeist cases, it will be remembered, bells
230 The Psychic World
are rung, crockery broken, objects thrown and moved
about by no visible agency, and so on. The number of
reported cases of this type is considerable—some of
them being quite recent and well-authenticated.* One
of the commonest phenomena, in cases of this sort, is
the throwing of stones —frequently from outside the
house, but often from within it also. This was the type
of manifestation in the following case, where the phe
nomena seem to have been carefully observed at the
time of their occurrence. It was reported in the Journal
S.P.R., May, 1906, being witnessed by an Associate
of the Society, Mr. W. G. Grottendieck, in Sumatra.
He says:
"It was in September, 1903, that the following ab
normal fact occurred to me. Every detail of it has been
examined by me very carefully. I had been on a long
journey through the jungle of Palembang and Djambi
(Sumatra) with a gang of 50 Javanese coolies for ex
ploring purposes. Coming back from the long trip, I
found that my house had been occupied by somebody
else, and I had to put up my bed in another house that
was not yet ready, and had just been erected from
wooden poles and hiking or kadjang. The roof was
formed of great dry leaves. ... I put my bullsack and
mosquito curtain on the wooden floor and soon fell
asleep. At about 1 o'clock at night I half awoke hearing
something fall near my head, outside the mosquito cur
tain on the floor. After a couple of minutes I completely
awoke and turned my head around to see what was
• See, in this connection, Bulletin II of The American Psychical
Institute, wherein more than 300 such cases are summarized, dating
back to the year 530 a.d.
Psychic Phenomena 231
falling down on the floor. They were black stones from
% to y$ of an inch long! I got out of the curtain and
turned up the kerosene lamp, that was standing on the
floor at the foot of my bed. I saw then that the stones
were falling through the roof in a parabolic line. They
fell on the floor close to my head-pillow. I went out
and awoke the boy, a Malay-Palembang coolie, who
was sleeping on the floor in the next room. I told him to
go outside and to examine the jungle up to a certain
distance. He did so whilst I lighted up the jungle a little
by means of a small ever-ready electric lantern. At the
same time that my boy was outside the stones did not
stop falling. My boy came in again, and I told him to
search the kitchen to see if anybody could be there. He
went to the kitchen and I went inside the room again,
to watch the stones falling down. I knelt down near the
head of my bed and tried to catch the stones, while they
were falling through the air toward me, but I could
never catch them; it seemed to me that they changed
their direction in the air as soon as I tried to get hold
of them. I could not catch any of them before they fell
on the floor. . . . They came right through the kadjang,
but there were no holes in the kadjang. When I tried
to catch them there, at the very spot of coming out, I
also failed. I did not notice anything particular
about the stones except that they were warmer than
they would have been under ordinary circumstances. . . .
The next day, when awake again, I found the stones on
the floor and everything as I had left it in the night. . . .
Altogether there had been about 18 or 22 stones
"
In reply to questions, Mr. Grottendieck states that,
"In the Dutch East Indies this phenomenon seems to
happen pretty often; at least every now and then it is
232 The Psychic World
reported in the newspapers, generally concerning a
house in the city."
Mr. Northcote W. Thomas gives an account of "A
Javanese Poltergeist" in the Occult Review, for No
vember, 1905; while an Egyptian case is reported in
the same periodical, June, 19 12.
Mediumistic Phenomena
(a). Physical
We now come to a group of cases, in which the
phenomena were experimentally induced—as opposed
to the spontaneous phenomena previously recorded.
These, therefore, more closely resemble our own seance
phenomena observed in the presence of mediums,
rather than the sporadic cases reported by individuals,
such as apparitions coincidental with death. We may
consequently regard these phenomena as similar to
those produced by native mediums.
When it comes to the citation of cases of physical
phenomena really analogous to those of our Occidental
mediums, it must be admitted that such cases are ex
tremely rare. Indeed, I have been enabled to unearth
only a few, as the result of a fairly lengthy and labori
ous research. Magical results, on the one hand, and
spontaneous cases, such as poltergeist phenomena, on
the other, do not come within this category. One of
the most representative accounts
is,
perhaps, that con
tained
in
William Howitt's History
of
the Supernat
ural, Vol.
I,
pp. 429-31, where he says:
"The Indians have always been great spiritualists,
ghost-seers, table-rappers, and perhaps, too, magnetiz
Psychic Phenomena 233
ers. . . . The lodge which their jossakids or prophets,
or, as the Canadians term them, jongleurs, erect for
their incantations, is composed of stout posts, con
nected with basket-work, and covered with birch-bark.
It is tall and narrow, and resembles a chimney; it is
firmly built, and two men, even if exerting their utmost
strength, would be unable to move, shake, or bend it;
it is so narrow that a man who crawls in has scarcely
room to move about in it.
"
'Thirty years ago,' a gentleman told me who had
lived among the Indians, and was even related to them
through his wife, 'I was present at the incantation and
performance of a jossakid in one of these lodges; I saw
the man creep into the hut, which was about ten feet
high, after swallowing a mysterious potion made of a
root. He immediately began singing and beating the
drum in his basket-work chimney. The entire case began
gradually trembling and shaking, and oscillating slowly
amid great noise. The more the necromancer sang and
drummed, the more violent the oscillations of the long
case became. It bent backwards and forwards, up and
down, like the mast of a vessel caught in a storm and
tossed on the waves. I could not understand how these
movements could be produced, by a man inside, as we
could not have caused them from the exterior. . . .
"The drum ceased and the jossakid yelled that 'the
spirits were coming over him.' We then heard through
the noise, and crackling, and oscillations of the hut,
two voices speaking inside, one above, the other below.
The lower one asked questions, which the upper one
answered. Both voices seemed entirely different, and I
believed I could explain this by very clever ventrilo
quism. . . .
234 The Psychic World
"Thirty years later, the Indian had become a Chris
tian, and was on his death-bed. 'Uncle,' I said to him,
recalling that circumstance, 'Uncle, dost thou remem
ber prophesying to us in thy lodge thirty years ago,
and astonishing us, not only by thy discourse, but by the
movements of thy prophet-lodge? ... Now thou art
old, and hast become a Christian; thou art sick, and
cannot live much longer; tell me, then, how and
through what means thou didst deceive us?'
"My sick Indian replied, 'I have become a Christian,
I am old, I am sick, I cannot live much longer, and
I can do no other than speak the truth. Believe me, I
did not deceive you ; I did not move the lodge ; it was
shaken by the power of the spirits. Nor did I speak
with a double tongue; I only replied to you what the
spirits said to me. I heard their voices. The top of the
lodge was full of them, and before me the sky and
wide lands lay extended; I could see a great distance
round me; and I believed I could recognize the most
distant objects.' The old jossakid said this with such an
expression of simple truth and firm conviction that it
seemed to me, at least, that he did not believe himself
a deceiver, but had full faith in the efficacy of his magic
arts, and the reality of his visions."
From another part of the world entirely —India—
accounts have been published of phenomena very sim
ilar to those witnessed in the presence of our own
mediums. M. Louis Jacolliot, Chief Justice of Chan-
darnagar, in his Occult Science in India (pp. 199-274),
gives an account of a number of curious manifestations
produced in his presence by a native medium or Fakir
named Covindasamy. Among other phenomena were
Psychic Phenomena 235
raps, movements of objects without contact, lights,
partial materializations and the levitation of the Fakir
himself —on one occasion for eight minutes, as timed
by Jacolliot —while the Fakir sat cross-legged on a low
stool, both feet being well removed from the floor. All
these manifestations were produced in Jacolliot's own
home, in fair light. His account of the raps produced is
particularly interesting. He says :
"The Fakir was ... in position with both hands ex
tended towards an immense bronze vase full of water.
Within five minutes the vase commenced to rock to and
fro upon its base, and approach the Fakir gently and
with a regular motion. As the distance diminished,
metallic sounds escaped from
it,
as
if some one had
struck
it
with
a
steel rod. At certain times the blows
were so numerous and quick that they produced sound
similar to that made
by
a
hail-storm upon
a
metal roof.
... At one time, at my command, the blows changed
into
a
continuous roll, like that of
a
drum; at another,
on the contrary, they succeeded each other with the
slowness and regularity of the ticking of
a
clock
"
Compare with this the account of Sir William
Crookes (Researches in Spiritualism, p. 39)
:
"Presently percussive sounds were heard on the
parchment, resembling the dropping of grains of sand
on its surface. ... At each percussion
a
fragment of
graphite which
I
had placed on the membrane was seen
to be projected upwards about i-50th of an inch.
Sometimes the sounds were as rapid as those of an
induction coil, whilst at others they were more than
a
second apart."
236 The Psychic World
Take again the following account of certain mate
rializations which were observed in Jacolliot's own
house —he and the native medium alone being present.
"A slightly phosphorescent cloud seemed to have
formed in the middle of my chamber, from which
semblances of hands appeared to go and come with
great rapidity. In a few minutes, several hands ap
peared to have lost their vaporous appearance and to
resemble human hands; so much so, indeed, that they
might readily have been mistaken for the latter. Singu
lar to relate, while some became, as it were, more ma
terial, others became more luminous. Some became
opaque, and cast a shadow in the light, while others
became so transparent that an object behind them
could be distinctly seen. I counted as many as sixteen.
Asking the Fakir if I could touch them, I had hardly
expressed a wish to that effect, when one of them,
breaking away from the rest, flew toward me and
pressed my outstretched hand. It was small, supple and
moist, like the hand of a young woman
"
Compare, again, the account given by Crookes (ibid.
p. 92):
"The hands and fingers do not always appear to be
solid and life-like. Sometimes, indeed, they are more
like the appearance of a nebulous cloud partly con
densed into the form of a hand. This is not equally
visible to all present. For instance, a flower or a small
object is seen to move; one person present will see a
nebulous-looking hand, whilst others will see nothing
at all but the moving flower. I have more than once
Psychic Phenomena 237
seen, first an object move, then a luminous cloud ap
pear to form about
it,
and lastly, the cloud condense
into shape and become
a
perfectly-formed hand. At this
stage, the hand
is
visible to all present.
It
is
not always
a
mere form, but sometimes appears perfectly life-like
and graceful, the fingers moving and the flesh appar
ently as human as that of any
in
the room. At the wrist,
or arm,
it
becomes hazy, and fades off into
a
luminous
cloud. To the touch, the hand sometimes appears icy-
cold and dead, at other times, warm and life-like,
grasping my own with the firm pressure of an old
friend.
I
have retained one of these hands
in
my own,
firmly resolved not to let
it
escape. There was no strug
gle or effort made to get loose, but
it gradually seemed
to resolve itself into vapor, and faded
in
that manner
from my grasp.
.
.
."
I
may perhaps add that
I
myself have witnessed and
experienced similar phenomena
in
the presence of Eu-
sapia Palladino.
It
will be seen, therefore, that there are many strik
ing similarities between these phenomena, witnessed by
Jacolliot
in
India, and those observed
by
psychical re
searchers
in
London and New York. That
is
one of the
interesting and significant points which
it
is
the inten-
tention of this chapter to emphasize and bring out more
clearly, perhaps, than has been realized
in
the past.
Dowsing (i.e., water finding by means of the Divin
ing Rod) has been utilized in the Orient for many
years, and the Government of Bombay has now ap
pointed an official water-finder, issuing an annual "Re
port" on his work, which has so far been eminently
successful. In the "Report on the Work of the Water
238 The Psychic World
Diviner" it is stated that, of 81 wells which have been
sunk, water was found in 79 cases, and that "on 16
additional sites situated in 'precarious tracts,' prelim
inary bores were sunk. Every bore was successful, eight
of them being certified by the engineer of the District
Local Board, the others having apparently been made
privately. . . ." As Mr. Theodore Besterman says, in
commenting upon these facts: "Subject to verification
. . . the figures given above undoubtedly make a con
siderable step forward in the regularity and reliability
of the dowsing faculty. . . ." (Journal S.P.R., July,
1929, pp. 129-30.)
Enough examples of various types of psychic phe
nomena have now been given, perhaps, to emphasize
the fact that these are substantially the same all over
the world ; that, no matter where we may go, we shall
find practically identical manifestations being observed
and recorded (subject to slight local variations) and
that these are more or less identical with those ob
served in our midst. Mr. Gerald Arundel, it is true, in
his article on "Spiritualism in Tropical America," (Oc
cult Review, February, 19 14), attempted to prove that
there are certain differences, —attributing these to the
variations of temperature and climate. He says :
"Why is it that the psychic phenomena of the tropics
are distinct from those of cold climates? In my opin
ion, one climate
is,
generally speaking, more favorable
to
a
particular class of phenomena; and another
climate to
a
different class; that psychic phenomena
depend, not only on individual psychic force, not only
Psychic Phenomena 239
on temperament, character and certain bodily peculiar
ities, but in a noticeable degree on locality and climate
as well. . . ."
I am unable to discern any essential differences,
however, either in the experience he himself relates, or
in those of other investigators. On the contrary, I am
constantly struck by their great similarity —the slight
differences being due, as I have said, to local customs
and traditions. We find the same bodily and mental
conditions, the same phenomena, the same results, and
the same causes. As Mr. Andrew Lang expressed
it,
in
his Cock Lane and Common Sense (p. 356)
:
"All the world over . . . the same persons are cred
ited with the rejected phenomena, clairvoyance, dis
cerning of spirits, powers of voluntary telepathic and
telekinetic impact. Thus we find that uniform and re
current evidence vouches for
a
mass of phenomena
which science scouts. Science has now accepted
a
por
tion of the mass but still rejects the stranger occur
rences.
.
.
. These facts, at the lowest estimate, must
suggest that man may have faculties, and be sur
rounded by agencies, which physical science does not
take into account
in
its theory of the universe and of
human nature."
(b). Mental
Turning, now, from these physical phenomena to
those purely mental or psychic, we find many instances
in which supernormal knowledge has apparently been
displayed
by
a
native medium,
in
trance, resembling
the communications of our own mediums. Sometimes
240 The Psychic World
these are written automatically, in sand; more often
they are spoken through the mouth of the entranced
medium. Such communications may relate to the sitter's
health, to some object he has lost, to some friend or
relative, or may represent direct messages from the
spirit of the dead man. These communications may be
spoken automatically, or may be given by means of the
direct voice, as in the instance cited above. The follow
ing is typical of the former method.
In the December (1929) number of The Realist an
article appeared by Mr. B. Malinowski, dealing with
psychic phenomena in the South Sea Islands. He says :
"The distance between living men and ghosts is not
so great in Melanesia. To the Trobriand Islander the
spirit world is quite near at hand. ... I was interested
to know in what form the medium was transported to
the spirit world. I received the following answer:
'T-yoseuo, the fallow part of me remains here; I my
self go out. I, the man, go away. . . .' On one occasion,
the chief of a tribe happened to die while I was in the
vicinity, and when night came every one (including the
visitors) had to prepare to join in the vigil. I sat with
a number of other travelers to overlook the scene, and
near at hand was a reputed medium, of whom it was
said 'great things were expected that night.' I tried to
exchange a few words with the medium, who was sit
ting next to me, but he was by no means talkative. He
was not himself, but in a state of excitement, mumbling
words, at times twitching, at times falling into a rigid
trance, his eyes glistening and fixed. ... As the night
wore on, the natives became more and more excited,
and the medium slowly went under control. . . . Sud
Psychic Phenomena 241
denly, he stood up, and with a powerful, full-throated
voice I never expected him possessing, he began to in
tone the song. He paused, and then came an answer
through the medium, spoken in an entirely different
voice. At times there was a strange effect as of several
voices striving for an audience; his sentences became
shorter, more and more jerky, ending in gasping,
gurgling sounds, until at last he sank back on the plat
form, evidently exhausted. Only afterwards did I learn
that the dead man's spirit had spoken through Tom-
waya (the medium), and everybody present had un
mistakably and unhesitatingly recognized his voice —
stronger and somewhat different, yet fundamentally
the same. . . ."
The parallel here between this savage seance and the
seances given by our so-called voice mediums is evi
dent; it is also characteristic of many direct-message
mediums, in which a change of voice and personality is
noted, corresponding to the alleged change of com
municator. In the majority of instances, when inde
pendent voice phenomena are noted, it has usually
been assumed that ventriloquism was employed—the
medium "throwing his voice" and merely impersonat
ing the dead man or god supposedly communicating at
the time. There are, however —as we have seen—cer
tain cases in which this explanation seemingly fails to
cover the facts, cases in which definite supernormal
knowledge is shown—of events, languages, etc., un
known to the medium at the time. Were these instances
more numerous and better authenticated, they would
doubtless constitute a striking body of evidence. How
ever, here as elsewhere, accurately recorded, first-hand
242 The Psychic World
accounts are few and far between; and we must be
content, for the time being, to leave this question still
sub judice. The time will come, it is to be hoped, when
occurrences of this type will receive the attention they
deserve.
Turning, now, to other psychic phenomena anal
ogous to our own: An interesting case of crystal-gazing
in Tahiti is reported by M. Jean Dorsenne, in the
Revue Metapsychique (1926, No. 3, p. 226) in which
he was enabled to see in the crystal used by the sorcerer
a vision already seen by a native consultante.
Let us now turn, for a few moments, to certain
countries, and endeavor to ascertain, so far as possible,
the particular types of psychic manifestation peculiar
to them. It is to be noted that, while the characteristics
of these psychic phenomena are everywhere funda
mentally the same, they nevertheless differ from one
another in striking and interesting ways, with regard to
their details. These dissimilarities seem to be due to
differing environmental psychological settings or pe
culiarities, giving to the resultant phenomena charac
teristics essentially their own. We may first of all
consider China, Japan, Siberia and Malay, as examples
of this, before passing on to more general considera
tions.
Psychic Phenomena in China
Many years ago, Lafcadio Hearn wrote a charming
little book entitled Chinese Ghosts. The stories were
of course entirely fiction, but were based upon current
beliefs and superstitions of the people, much as our
own ghost stories are ! The interesting point about the
book, which I wish to emphasize, however, is this : that
Psychic Phenomena 243
the type of ghost story in China and Japan is entirely
different from our own. Instead of the fleeting, nebu
lous visitant with which we are familiar, in our own
ghost stories, Chinese ghosts stay materialized for con
siderable periods of time; or else they are grotesque,
monstrous and horrible. Doubtless, there are many in
stances of veridical hallucinations, similar to ours,
could such be obtained; but the traditional ghost story
is certainly very different in character from our own;
and this
is,
to
a
certain extent, true of the ghost stories
of many primitive peoples.
Writing of psychic and occult matters generally
among the Chinese, Dr. Herbert A. Giles, Professor of
Chinese
in
the University of Cambridge, and sometime
H. B. M. Consul at Ningpo, says,
in
his Civilization
of
China (pp. 65-71)
:
"Divination and fortune-telling have always played
a
conspicuous part
in
ordinary Chinese life. Wise men,
of the magician type, sit
in
stalls
in
street and market
place, ready for
a
small fee to advise those who consult
them on any enterprise to be undertaken, even of the
most trivial kind. . . . The omens can be taken
in
vari
ous ways, as by calculation based upon books, of which
there
is
quite
a
literature, or by drawing lots inscribed
with mystic signs, to be interpreted by the fortune
teller
"Of all Chinese superstitions, the one that has been
most persistent, and has exerted the greatest influence
upon national life,
is
the famous Wind-and-Water sys
tem {feng shui) of geomancy. According to the prin
ciples which govern this system, and of which quite
a
special literature exists, the good or evil fortunes of
244 The Psychic World
individuals and the communities are determined by the
various physical aspects and conditions which surround
their everyday life.
"In some parts of China, planchette is frequently re
sorted to as a means of reading the future, and adapt
ing one's actions accordingly. It is a purely professional
performance, being carried through publicly before
some altar in a temple, and payment made for the re
sponse. The question is written down on a piece of
paper, which is burnt at the altar apparently before
any one could gather knowledge of its contents; and
the answer from the god is forthwith traced on a tray
of sand, word for word, each word being obliterated
to make room for the next, by two men, supposed to be
ignorant of the question, who hold the ends of a V-
shaped instrument from the point of which a little
wooden pencil projects at right angles.
\ "Another method of abstracting information from
the spirits of the unseen world is nothing more nor less
than hypnotism, which has long been known to the
Chinese, and is mentioned in literature as far back as
the middle of the seventeenth century. With all the
paraphernalia of altar, candles, incense, etc., a me
dium is thrown into a hypnotic condition, during which
his body is supposed to be possessed by a spirit, and
every word he may utter to be divinely inspired. . . .
"This same influence is also used in cases of serious
illness, but always secretly, for such practices, as well as
dark seances for communicating with spirits, are
strictly forbidden by the Chinese authorities, who re
gard the employment of occult means as more likely
to be subversive of morality than to do any good what
ever to a sick person, or to any one else. All secret so
Psychic Phenomena 245
cieties of any sort or kind are equally under the ban of
the law. . . ."
The subject of obsession or possession by evil enti
ties in China has been made the subject of an extensive
work by Dr. John L. Nevins (Demon Possession and
Allied Themes) who came to the conclusion, after an
extensive investigation of the subject, that genuine pos
session was a fact, and that the occurrences could be
explained in no other way. Dr. Nevins was, for forty
years, a missionary to the Chinese, and while we must
grant his thorough familiarity with the people, it is
questionable to what extent his theological bias influ
enced his judgment of the facts.
Occult Phenomena in Japan
Probably in no country in the world is the saying
"the old order changeth" as true as it is of Japan,
which country has, in a few years, transmuted itself
from a relatively primitive state to a powerful, modern
nation, equipped with all implements of modern sci
ence. Whatever may be said here, therefore, relates
not to the modern country, but to the older Japan of
fifty years ago and more, when many of these practices
were still in existence, as they probably still are in rural
communities, just as we find all sorts of odd supersti
tions and beliefs in our own remote hamlets.
Some forty years ago, Mr. Percival Lowell, the
eminent astronomer, visited Japan and wrote a book
upon his observations, Occult Japan. It is a fascinating
and apparently little-known work. Herein he describes
many of the older traditions, ceremonies and beliefs.
The "Ordeal by Boiling Water" was then in vogue,
246 The Psychic World
and is graphically depicted. This is followed by the
"fire-walking ceremony," very similar to that observed
in other countries. (This I have treated at some length
later on.) The ceremony of climbing a ladder of
swords with bare feet is next described; it bears, of
course, a suspicious resemblance to many of our "side
show" performances, —many of which I have explained
in a little book entitled Side-Show and Animal Tricks.
"Bringing down fire from Heaven" was a spectacular
feat, in which a fire was kindled apparently by super
normal means —Mr. Lowell thought by means of a
concealed magnifying glass, as the priest refused to
attempt the miracle except on clear, sunshiny days.
Finally, we are told much concerning incarnations and
possessions —the latter very similar to those observed
in China. By Incarnation is meant the personal em
bodiment of a God.
One or two extracts will be of interest, describing an
incarnation of the kind; it will be observed that many
of the symptoms are strikingly similar to those noted
in our own mediums. Students of Hodgson's and
Hyslop's Reports on Mrs. Piper will be particularly
struck, doubtless, by these analogies. Thus we read :
"We now come to the subjective side of the trance,
the first point being the getting into it; the cause, that
is,
as distinguished from the occasion. Entrance
is
ef
fected, in fact, in the simplest possible manner.
It
con
sists of shutting the eyes and thinking of nothing. From
the moment the nakaza takes the gohei-wand into his
hands, at which time he closes his eyes, he makes his
mind as much of
a
blank as he can.
Psychic Phenomena 247
"The ability to think of nothing —not the simple
matter even to the innately empty-headed it might be
imagined—has been increased by the previous ethereal-
izing process of the austerities. . . . Some nakaza, in
order the easier to enter the trance, rest one end of
the gohei-wand upon the ground, and, leaning forward,
throw their weight upon the other, pressing against the
forehead at the base of the nose between the eyes. The
act is thought to be helpful to a speedy possession. It is
an interesting fact that this zone hypnotique should
have been discovered by the Japanese long before the
thing was scientifically known in Europe. . . .
"Of the trance itself most, if not all, of the possessed
remember afterwards nothing. One man indeed said
that it was like dreaming, only more vague —the dream
of a dream, which certainly is very vague indeed. Even
here I think he mistook the feelings fringing the trance
state for the trance state itself. For certainly the aver
age nakaza is quite emphatic on the point, and this
particular man was not a specially able specimen.
"All agree in the sense of oppression which is their
last bit of consciousness before going-off and their first
on coming to. . . . Possession begins, they say, at the
gohei. The hands that hold it are the first part of the
man to be possessed. In the incipient cases they are all
that are visibly affected. As the control deepens, the
cataleptic condition creeps on like paralysis, till it in
volves all the body not actually in use by the god. Pos
session ends much as it begins. The subject's arms and
hands are the last part of him to lose their induced
catalepsy. After the man is well waked, and to all in
tents and purposes himself again, it is difficult to take
248 The Psychic World
the wand away from him. Only after being rubbed and
kneaded will the fingers let go their hold.*
"In the trance itself the anaesthesia is usually
marked. I have repeatedly stuck pins into the entranced
at favorably sensitive spots without the god's being
aware of the pricks. In some cases, however, where I
had no reason to suspect fraud, the pin was felt. So that
apparently want of feeling is not invariably produced
in the state ; but it is certainly a usual concomitant of it.
"The pulse is quickened to a varying extent. . . .
During the height of the possession the subject's body
is in a constant subdued quiver; evidence of the same
nervous thrill that produces the initial spasm. Not till
the comatose condition comes on does this cease. And
it is capable of being revived to greater or less fury by
reincantation, at any moment. . . .
"The development of the voice is always an acquired
art; dumb possession preceding the ability to converse
in the trance. It takes the god no inconsiderable time
to learn to talk. When he does do so the tone is pecul
iar. It is not the man's natural voice, but a stilted sort
of voice, one which a god might be supposed to use in
addressing mere mortals. It would be theatrical were
it not sincere. It is the man's unconscious conception of
how a god should talk, and commends itself artistically
to the imagination."
Mr. Lowell, of course, writes as a complete skeptic,
but his observations are shrewd, accurate and illuminat
ing. He has preserved for us a valuable account of
traditional Japanese psychism, permitting us to draw
• These points are of particular interest because of their connection
with the phenomena of "dowsing."
Psychic Phenomena 249
analogies between these facts and the more closely
studied psychic phenomena in our own countries. If
more of this had been done in the past, we should be
richer in knowledge today.
From Japan we now turn to Siberia, and shall con
sider, briefly, the magic and sorcery of the Shamans, or
necromancers, concerning whom a few scattered re
ports have come to us.
Siberian Shamanism
Throughout Mongolia and Siberia a variety of Sor
cery exists which is generally known as Shamanism. It
consists partly in a form of primitive religion and
partly in a series of magical rites performed by a caste
of priests who maintain that they are enabled to com
mune with the world of spirits. Absurd and degraded
as some of these ceremonies are, they are nevertheless
of considerable interest because of the light they throw
upon the mechanism of the primitive mind, and also by
reason of their connection with certain forms of
spiritism. The Shaman is really a necromancer and
sorcerer, the literal meaning of the word in Manchu
being "one who is excited," evidently because of the
epileptoid fits into which the Shaman falls while
prophesying. Jochelson says that "people who are
about to become Shamans have fits of wild paroxysms,
alternating with a condition of complete exhaustion.
They will lie motionless for two or three days without
partaking of food or drink. Finally they retire to the
wilderness, where they spend their time enduring hun
ger and cold in order to prepare themselves for their
calling."
250 The Psychic World
Mr. Lewis Spence, writing upon this subject in the
Occult Review (November, 1923), says:
"When the Shaman accepts the call he also accepts
the guardianship of one or more spirits by whose means
he enters into communication with the whole spirit
world. In this he resembles our own spiritualists, who
are usually under the guidance of at least one, and
sometimes as many as four or five, 'controls.' But the
Shaman receives his call through the agency of some
animal or plant or other natural object, which he en
counters at the critical period when he is meditating on
the life shamanic. This is, of course, precisely what the
Red Indian does when he goes out to seek his totem,
and
it
seems to me as
if
this analogy might throw
a
very considerable light upon the nature and origin of
Totemism, regarding which there is at present great
dubiety
in
scientific circles. Totemism, we know, has
a
root connection with spiritism, and
is
also connected
with ancestor worship. The spirit often appears and
addresses the would-be Shaman, precisely as does the
totem among the American tribes
"
Part of the training of the Shaman (which
is
ex
tremely long and arduous) consists
in
learning to play
the drum with the right rhythm and power, which
is
said to be
a
difficult procedure. Long fasts are essential.
The initiation of the Shaman
is
in
nine steps or stages,
and, according to the grade of the sorcerer, are his
powers revered. There are great, middling and little
Shamans
;
there are also black and white Shamans, the
former dealing with evil spirits and the latter with
beneficent ones only. The Shaman usually begins op
Psychic Phenomena 251
erations by putting out the lights in the house in which
the manifestations are to take place. He then com
mences to beat his drum softly, accompanying it by im
itations of the howling of the wolf and other animals.
These sounds then appear to come from various parts
of the room (probably ventriloquism) and the drum
playing suddenly ceases. When the lamps are re-lighted,
the Shaman is found in a deep trance, in which condi
tion he utters his prophecies and predictions. Various
observers have reported that the Shaman frequently
speaks in a tongue unknown to him, when in the trance
state. -Jochelson, for example, tells of a Tungus Sha
man whose spirits were of Koryak origin, and who de
clared that, although they spoke to him in that tongue,
he was ignorant of the meaning of what they said. "At
first," writes Jochelson, "I thought he was deceiving
me, but I had several opportunities of convincing my
self that he really did not understand any Koryak."
Sieroszewski (O. R., p. 290) gives a vivid account
of a seance given by a well-known Shaman. The prep
arations were made at dusk, the floor of the hut was
carefully swept, and those who were to witness the cere
mony ranged themselves along the walls, the men on
the right and the women on the left. The Shaman, who
was secured to the onlookers on either side by strong
cords, "lest the spirits should carry him away," un
wound his plaited hair, muttering the while. His eyes
were steadily fixed upon the fire, which was allowed to
die out.
The room was now almost entirely dark. The Sha
man put on his wizard's cloak. Then he was given a
pipe of narcotic tobacco, at which he puffed for a long
252 The Psychic World
time, inhaling the smoke. A white mare's skin was
placed in the middle of the room and the Shaman asked
for water. This he drank, and, going to the center of
the room, he knelt, bowing solemnly to all four points
of the compass, and sprinkling the ground about him
with some of the water which he had retained in his
mouth. A handful of white horsehair was then thrown
on the fire, putting it quite out. The audience scarcely
breathed, and only the unintelligible mutterings of the
Shaman could be heard. Then the silence was broken
by a loud yawn, "like the clang of iron," followed by
the piercing cry of a falcon. The drum was once more
beaten gently and with a sound resembling the hum
ming of gnats on a summer's day. The music swelled
until it reached the highest pitch, the small bells on the
tympanum jingled, a cascade of strange sound fell on
the ear. Silence came once more, to be broken shortly
by the chanting of the Shaman invoking the spirits, the
Mighty Bull of the Earth, the Horse of the Steppes.
Wild shouts and meaningless words followed. Com
munication was now established with the spirits. The
amagyat came down. The Shaman rose and began to
leap and dance in wild excitement, first on the white
horse skin, then in the middle of the room. Wood was
quickly piled on the fire and the Shaman was seen danc
ing in wild gyrations, those who held him with the
cords having the greatest difficulty in adapting their
movements to his. More and more maniacal he grew.
"His fury ebbs and rises like a wave. Sometimes it
leaves him for a while, and then, holding his drum high
above his head, he solemnly and calmly chants a
prayer and invokes the spirits until the cause of the
sick person's illness is revealed by them."
Psychic Phenomena 253
It is interesting to note that the Shaman does not
take on the personality of a deceased human being,
during the trance state —in this sense differing from the
spiritistic type of manifestation. Some, who have wit
nessed these performances, are inclined to attribute the
resultant phenomena to sub-human intelligences, of the
type operating in so-called poltergeist cases. The de
gree of validity in this hypothesis depends, of course,
upon the degree of certitude attained that poltergeist
phenomena are ever instigated by such extraneous en
tities, in the historic cases known to us.
From the icy steppes of Siberia we fly on the wings
of imagination, to the sun-baked tropics, and find our
selves in Malay !
Malay Magic and Spiritualism
A leading authority upon this subject is undoubtedly
Mr. Walter Skeat, who has written an extensive book
on Malay Magic, and contributed an illuminating ar
ticle upon the subject to the S.P.R. Proceedings, (Vol.
XVII, pp. 290-304). (See also "Folk-Lore," June,
1902; Journal S.P.R., Vol. X, p. 259, etc.) Mr. Skeat
says:
"The first class of spiritualistic ceremonies . . . con
sists of a simple form of automatism, as represented by
the movement of inert objects. . . .
"A second class of automatisms includes a large
number of ways of divining by means of the apparently
intelligent movements of inanimate objects in contact
with the magician.
"A third class, which requires to be distinguished to
some extent from automatic phenomena, consists
254 The Psychic World
mainly of ceremonies by which certain demons, animals
or even inert objects are made to act upon persons at
a distance. This kind of ceremony corresponds to what
is usually known as a 'sending.'
"The fourth and last class of ceremonies includes
such rites as are intended to induce possession, either
for divinatory purposes or for that of exorcism. . . ."
It will be seen from the above that classes one and
two consist of phenomena allied to table-tipping, the
divining rod, etc., and possibly telekinesis. The third is
a variety of witchcraft, while the fourth includes pos
session-phenomena and also the curing of those who
have been possessed by evil spirits—the supposed cause
of most diseases.
We need not dwell at length upon these various
classes of alleged phenomena, since they differ but little
from those found among primitive peoples everywhere.
We shall come to a discussion of native magic and
witchcraft later on. The following remarks upon pos
session are, however of unusual interest, inasmuch as
they illustrate the seeming analogies between these
savage phenomena and those observed in the presence
of our own mediums. Mr. Skeat says (pp. 302-3) :
"Of the ceremonies of the fourth class, viz., Pos
session and Devil dancing, I have seen, perhaps, alto
gether about half a dozen performances, though I need
scarcely remark that it is a most difficult task for a Eu
ropean to obtain permission to attend such ceremonies
at all, and it can only be done by possessing a strong
friend at court.
"At these performances, the magician and a large
Psychic Phenomena 255
number of his friends and relations being assembled in
the sick man's house, the magician seats himself on the
ground facing an attendant who chants an invocation,
accompanying himself upon the Malay three-stringed
viol. After much burning of benzoin and scattering of
sacrificial rice, the spirit descends, entering the ma
gician's body through the fontanel. The magician is at
once seized with convulsive twitchings, which seem to
spread all over his body, and these are accompanied by
a rapid rotary motion of the head which he makes
rotate from right to left at a tremendous pace, shak
ing at the same time his shoulders and thighs, and get
ting more and more violent until the whole body is
quaking like a jelly, thus producing an almost painfully
vivid imitation of an epileptic fit. Soon, however, he
falls down in a state of what is doubtless real exhaus
tion, and after an interval rises again and commences
to dance. The entire process is repeated several times;
and a quiet interval then follows, during which the ma
gician, sitting on the ground, replies in a high, speaky,
unnatural voice to any question that may be put to him,
not merely as regards the welfare of his patient, but
even as regards private and personal matters, which
are of interest only to the patient's friends and rela
tives. In the course of this catechism the magician ex
pounds the cause and nature of the sick man's illness, as
well as the remedies which should be adopted for his
recovery. . . ."
It will be seen, from this, that clairvoyant diagnosis
is very old, and has been practiced by medicine men
from the earliest times, in all countries. To what extent
such diagnoses are accurate has never been definitely
256 The Psychic World
ascertained, so far as I am aware; it would necessitate
a large statistical inquiry to settle that point. It will be
observed however, that such diagnoses are interblended
with general information, apparently supernormal in
character, dealing with the subject's own life; also, that
the method of giving the message is identical with that
noted in other countries. The magician, or medium, is
entranced and the voice is different from his own, sug
gestive of another personality. It would be unprofitable
for us to pursue this line of inquiry further, however,
at the present time; for, if we have such difficulty in
deciding upon the authenticity of the communicators
and communications received through our own me
diums, who have been subjected to such prolonged
analysis, it is hardly to be expected that we should be
enabled to arrive at any definite conclusions as to the
character of the messages received through savage
mediums, concerning whom such scant reports have
been obtained ! We must accordingly be content to leave
the matter here for the time being.
In Tibet—The Astral Body
Aside from the Shamanism, magic and witchcraft
common in Tibet, one factor of particular interest is
to be noted in connection with this country and its
mystical beliefs: that is the detailed teaching concern
ing the astral body which has been in existence for hun
dreds of years, and which today constitutes an integral
part of their religious teachings. Just as the ancient
Egyptians believed in the KA, its wanderings and trials
being traced in detail in the Book of the Dead, and
other writings, so, in the Tibetan Book of the Dead, we
find stated in great detail the belief in the astral body,
Psychic Phenomena 257
and precisely how it leaves the physical body, at death.
This valuable book has lately been translated by Dr.
W. Y. Evans-Wentz, and published by the Oxford Uni
versity Press (1927). This work—the Bardo Thodol
—was probably first committed to writing in the eighth
century A.D., and embodied teachings much older. The
manuscript from which the present translation has
been made is judged by experts to be between 150 and
200 years old. As the reader may have surmised, it
deals with the same general topic as the ancient Egyp
tian work; but, from our modern point-of-view, is far
more rational, and many of its teachings correspond, in
a remarkable way, with those of Occult and Psychical
Science. A brief summary of those portions of the
book which deal more or less directly with our theme
will doubtless prove of interest.
When a man is about to die, a Lama is called in,
whose duty it is to attend to the dying man and usher
him properly into the next world. The arteries on the
sides of the neck are pressed. This is done to keep the
dying person conscious, with the consciousness rightly
directed. For the nature of the death-consciousness de
termines the future state of the "soul-complex,"
existence being the continuous transformation of one
conscious state to another. The pressing of the arteries
regulates the path to be taken by the out-going vital
current (Prana). The proper path is that which passes
through the Foramen of Monro. "If the expiration is
about to cease, turn the dying one over on the right
side, which posture is called 'The Lying Posture of a
Lion.' The throbbing of the arteries on the right and
left sides of the throat is to be pressed. If the person
dying is disposed to sleep, or if the sleeping state ad
258 The Psychic World
vances, that should be arrested, and the arteries
pressed gently but firmly. Thereby the vital energy will
not be able to return from the median nerve and will
be sure to pass out through the Brahmanic aperture.
Now the real setting face-to-face is to be applied. At
this moment, the first glimpsing of the Bardo, of the
Clear Light of Reality ... is experienced by all sentient
beings."
All the time the patient is dying, the Lama urges
him to keep his mind tranquil and poised, so that he
may see and enter into the Clear Light of Reality, and
may not be troubled with hallucinations or thought
forms, which have no objective existence, save in his
own mind. The Lama superintends the whole process
of the withdrawal of the astral body from the physical
at death. "It is commonly held that the process (of sep
aration) takes from three and one-half to four days,
unless assisted by a priest called hpho-bo [pron.
pho-o], or extractor-of-the-consciousness-principle; and
that, even if the priest be successful in the extracting,
the deceased ordinarily does not wake up to the fact of
being separated from the human body until the said
period of time has elapsed."
If the mind of the dying person has not been prop
erly concentrated upon the Clear Light, he is liable to
see scores of devils and demons of all sorts ! But it is
emphasized over and over again in the book that these
demons have no actual, objective existence; they are
merely hallucinations, or thought-forms, having no
actuality, save in the mind of the seer. They are all
purely symbolical. The mind is capable of manufactur
ing these, or creating them, just as we do every night
in our dreams. He must cleave his way through these
Psychic Phenomena 259
into the Clear Light of the Void. The sooner he can do
this, the sooner is "liberation" attained. .
Readers of the Projection of the Astral Body, by
Sylvan J. Muldoon and myself, will see how closely all
this tallies with the latest discoveries and findings of
psychic science, based upon actual experimentation in
this field. The teachings are likewise in conformity with
those of modern Spiritualism, and the communications
received through Mrs. Piper and other well-known me
diums. In our book will also be found a reproduction
of an old Chinese print, depicting the projection of the
astral body, during trance, and the "cord" or "cable,"
connecting the two bodies. It
is,
Ithink, of no little sig
nificance and interest that statements made by Tibetan
priests,
a
thousand and more years ago, should have
been quite independently verified by
a
young man liv
ing in
a
small Western town
in
the United States
!
It
seems incredible indeed that all this should be mere
coincidence, and leads us to
a
belief
in
the actuality of
the astral body, which, of course, has been believed
in
by primitive peoples
in
all times, and constitutes, as we
have seen, an integral part of their magical doctrines
and ceremonies.
We may now turn our attention to two particular
aspects of savage magical practices which have no pre
cise parallel
in
our own countries
:
I
refer
(
1
)
to the
Fire Walk Ceremonies, and (2) to Rain Making and
Rain Makers. In the former, the priest or celebrant
seemingly walks through fire or over red-hot stones
unscathed; in the latter the witch-doctor professes to
control the elements, and "make rain" or cause its cessa-
260 The Psychic World
tion, at will. We may briefly consider these in turn, sum
marizing very rapidly the accounts which have been
published concerning them.
Let us first consider
The Fire Walk
It is perhaps not generally known that the Fire Walk
Ceremony yet exists in Southern India, Fiji, Japan,
Tahiti, Trinidad, The Straits Settlements, Mauritius,
and elsewhere —the ceremony, that
is,
of walking un
scathed and uninjured, through or over red-hot stones
or through flames. Tylor, in his Primitive Culture, has
touched upon the subject
in
several places (Vol.
I,
p.
85; Vol. II, pp. 281, 429, etc.), but evidently did not
consider
it
of sufficient interest to treat
it
exhaustively,
or to inquire what actual foundation there might be
for these stories. As
a
matter-of-fact, numerous first
hand and recent accounts are available, supplied by eye
witnesses and may be verified by any one sufficiently
interested to visit the localities
in
question, and see for
himself. Mr.
S.
P. Langley, of the Smithsonian Institu
tion, witnessed the Ceremony
in
Tahiti
in
1901, and
published an account thereof (rather non-committal)
in
the Smithsonian Institution Reports (1348, pp. 539-
44), and also
in
Nature, August 22, 1901. Mr. Andrew
Lang published
a
lengthy paper on the subject
in
the
Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XV, pp. 2-15, and to this
paper
I
am indebted for several of the extracts which
follow. Subsequent lengthy correspondence on the sub
ject took place
in
the Society's Journal (Vols. IX and
X). Mr. Harry Price contributed
a
"Note" upon the
subject
in
the Journal A.S.P.R., September, 1928, p.
530. A splendid first-hand case may be found
in
the
Psychic Phenomena 261
Journal of the Polynesian Society, March, 1899, and
a further account in the Transactions of the New Zea
land Institute, Vol. XXXI, 1898. Mr. Percival
Lowell's accounts, in his Occult Japan, have been re
ferred to elsewhere in this paper. Colonel Andrew
Haggard also witnessed the fire-walk ceremony in
Japan, publishing his account of it in The Field, May
20, 1899, p. 724. With regard to the fire-walk cere
mony in India, I may refer the reader to the accounts
given by Mr. Stokes, in The Indian Antiquary (II. p.
190) ; Dr. Oppert, in his Original Inhabitants of India,
(p. 480), and Mr. Crookes, in Introduction to Popu
lar Religion and Folk-lore in Northern India (p. 10).
In Tonga, the fire walk was witnessed and described
by Miss Teuira Henry (Journal of the Polynesian So
ciety, Vol. II, pp. 105-8). As to Fiji, one of the best
accounts is that given by Mr. Basil Thomson, son of
the late Archbishop of York, in his book South Sea
Yarns (p. 195 et seq.). Photographs of the fire-walk
ceremony in operation were published by Mr. S. P.
Langley, in his Report, before referred to, and also in
the Folk Lore Journal, September, 1895. A lengthy
article on this subject was contributed by Dr. Th.
Pascal to the Annales des Sciences Psychiques, July-
August, 1899, entitled "Les Dompteurs du Feu."
Many similar references could be given, but the above
will suffice to show the universality of the ceremony,
and the fact that first-hand reports have often been
published concerning it by trustworthy and competent
witnesses.
And what do these accounts say? A few extracts will
serve to show the type of performance witnessed, and
262 The Psychic World
its general characteristics. Dr. H. M. Hocken, F.L.S.,
for example, in his account of the Fiji fire ceremony
says:
"In this remarkable ceremony a number of almost
nude Fijians walk quickly and unharmed across and
among white-hot stones which form the pavement of a
huge native oven —termed Lovo—in which, shortly
afterwards, are cooked the succulent sugary roots and
pith of the Cordyline Terminalis, one of the cabbage
trees, known to the Maoris as Ti, and to the Fijians as
Masawe. . . .
"So far we had seen nothing of the main actors. . . .
Now they came on, seven or eight in number, amidst
the vociferous yells of those around. The margin
reached, they steadily descended the oven-slope in
single file, and walked, as I think leisurely, but, as others
of our party think, quickly, across and around the
stones, leaving the oven at the point of entrance. The
leader who was longest in the oven, was a second or
two under half a minute therein. Almost immediately
heaps of the succulent leaves of the hibiscus, which had
been gathered for the purpose, were thrown into the
oven, which was thus immediately filled with clouds of
hissing steam. . . .
"Whilst walking through the fire, Dr. Colquhoun
thought the countenances of the fire walkers betrayed
some anxiety. I saw none of this; nor was it apparent
to me at either examination. The stones, which were
basaltic, must have been white hot, but due to the bril
liance of the day this was not visible ."
Mr. Thomson states that :
Psychic Phenomena 263
"The pit was filled with a white-hot mass, shooting
out little tongues of white flame. . . . The bottom of the
pit was covered with an even layer of hot stones . . . the
tongues of flame played continually among them. . . .
The walkers planted their feet squarely and firmly on
each stone
"
Similarly, Mr. Hastwell states that: "The stones
were heated to a red and white heat. . . . The natives
walked leisurely across five times; there was not even
the smell of fire on their garments." *
Three questions at once arise in the mind, in con
nection with these performances. ( 1 ) Were the stones
across which the natives walked really hot? (2) Were
the soles of the feet treated or prepared in any way to
render them partially immune to fire? (3) Were the
participants in an ecstatic or abnormal mental state at
the time? A brief discussion of each of these points may
be in order.
( 1 ) There can be no question that the under layers
of stones, in all these cases, were practically white-hot,
and the upper layers quite hot also. The accumulated
testimony is unanimous as to this. The question is:
Were the uppermost stones as hot as they appeared to
be ? There is confliction of evidence on this point. Pro
fessor Langley took some of these stones with him
and analyzed them in his laboratory, coming to the con-
• Other accounts of a like nature are given by Mr. Henry K.
Beauchamp, F.R.H.S., Fellow of the University of Madras, Journal
S.P.R., Vol. IX, pp. 312-21; Mr. George Ely Hall, Vol. X, pp. 132-34;
Mrs. G. S. Schwabe, Vol. X, pp. 154-5 ; Mr. John Piddington, X,
pp. 250-53; Mr. J. A. Sharroclc, X, p. 298, etc Inasmuch as these
and other accounts are very similar, it would be useless to quote
them at greater length. The latest report is that by Mr. Harry Price:
"An Account of Two Experimental Fire Walks," in which every
scientific precaution was taken.
264 The Psychic World
elusion that the stones employed were of extremely
low conductivity, and that it was even possible to hold
one end of a small stone in the hand without discom
fort, while the other end was repeatedly heated in the
flame of a blow-pipe. The lower surface of the layer
might be red-hot, provided stones of this type were
used. At the same time, there is evidence to show that
the general and radiated heat issuing from the furnace
must have been very considerable. Dr. Hocken tested
this out, by means of a thermometer, and states :
"Our thermometer was suspended by a simple de
vice over the center of the stones, and about 5 ft. or
6 ft. above them; but it had to be withdrawn almost
immediately, as the solder began to melt and drop, and
the instrument to be destroyed. It, however, registered
28 20 Fahr., and it is certain that, had not this accident
occurred, the range of 4000 would have been exceeded,
and the thermometer burst."
The general degree of heat over the improvised fur
nace, therefore, must have been very great—much too
hot for comfort ! Mr. Thomson states that a handker
chief was dropped on the surface of one of the stones,
and that it was immediately charred. Dr. Oppert like
wise states that "the heat is unbearable in the neigh
borhood of the ditch." Further, natives are occasionally
badly burnt, either through some accident, or be
cause they have not suitably prepared themselves be
fore attempting the fire walk. The evidence is in some
ways conflicting, but may perhaps be summed-up by say
ing that, while the surfaces of the uppermost stones
are not generally red-hot, in these ceremonies, never
Psychic Phenomena 265
theless the heat must be very great, and the whole per
formance extraordinary and often difficult to account
for by purely normal means.
It must also be emphasized that native fire-walking
ceremonies do not invariably follow this routine. In
many cases, no stones were employed; the celebrants
walked through beds of glowing charcoal or live
embers —far more extraordinary performances! Such
a test was recently underaken, in England, by Kuda
Bux, under excellent conditions of scientific control.
This test was arranged by Mr. Harry Price, the de
tails being given in his Bulletin, "Two Experimental
Fire Walks," published by the University of London
Council for Psychical Investigation (1936). The feet
of the fire walker were carefully examined both before ^
and after the walk, the temperature of the oven tested,
etc., by well-known physicists and medical men. No
normal explanation was forthcoming. A summary of
this recent case is given in Price's Confessions, pp. 355-
80, together with photographs.
(2) As to the possible preparation of feet, many
skeptical Europeans have examined the feet of the
participants, both before and after the ceremony, and
have asserted that no special preparation was at
tempted. It has been suggested, and even asserted, that
the soles of the feet were previously rubbed with a
solution of alum, or the juice of the aloe, just before
the ceremony. This, however, is denied by other in
vestigators. Further, in certain cases, Europeans have
walked across, without injury. Certainly, the feet of
the natives are probably much tougher than those of
white men, but Dr. Hocken (who examined them)
asserts that they were not leathery, while the feet of
266 The Psychic World
one of the Europeans who walked across were particu
larly tender. In some instances, it is true, little pools of
wet mud were prepared, in which the natives stepped
immediately before and after crossing the hot stones;
but if these were sufficiently hot they would certainly
scorch the soles of the feet, even if moist or subjected
to chemical preparation —which some observers are
emphatic in saying they were not.
(3) As to our third question —the mental condition
of the priest or performer at the time —this is a purely
subsidiary one, for, as Mr. Lang points out, "it is con
ceivable, barely, that in certain abnormal states of
mind, men might be insensible to the action of fire. But
no such state of mind would prevent fire from doing its
normal work on the body." In other words, an exalted
mental condition might make an individual insensible
to pain (as appears to have been the case with numer
ous martyrs, burnt at the stake) but this would not pre
vent the tissues of the body from being burnt and
destroyed. Why the natives' feet are not actually injured
during these fire-walking ceremonies is the problem !
These phenomena are of course analogous to those
witnessed in the presence of the medium D. D. Home,
whose celebrated "fire tests" are well known. In these
cases there can be no reasonable doubt that the coals
(not stones) handled were actually red-hot. The Earl
of Crawford, for instance, writes :
*
"I have frequently seen Home, when in a trance, go
to the fire and take out large red-hot coals, and carry
them about in his hands, put them inside his shirt, etc.
Eight times I have myself held a red-hot coal in my
• Report of the Dialectical Society, pp. 208-9.
Psychic Phenomena 267
hands without injury, when it scorched my face on
raising my hands. Once, I wished to see if they really
would burn, and said so, and I touched the coal with
the middle finger of my right hand, and I got a blister
as large as a sixpence ; I instantly asked him to give me
the coal, and I held the part that burnt me in the mid
dle of my hand, for three or four minutes, without the
least inconvenience. . . ."
Sir William Crookes, again (Proceedings S.P.R.,
Vol. VI, p. 103) states that:
"Mr. Home again went to the fire, and, after stirring
the hot coals about with his hand, took out a red-hot
piece nearly as big as an orange, and putting it in his
right hand, covered it over with his left hand, so as to
almost completely enclose
it,
and then blew into the
small furnace thus extemporized until the lump was
nearly white hot, and then drew my attention to the
lambent flame which was flickering over the coal and
licking round his fingers
;
he fell on his knees, looked up
in
a
reverent manner, held up the coal in front, and
said,%'Is not God good? Are not his laws wonderful?'
"
It
might be suggested, of course, that Home made
use of some non-conducting substance, such as asbestos,
while handling the coals, but how are we to account for
those instances when the sitter took the red-hot coals
in
his own hands, holding them there without injury?
The same fatal criticism might be leveled at the sug
gestion that the hands of the medium were in some way
chemically prepared.
I
have given
a
number of these
formulae
in
my Physical Phenomena
of
Spiritualism,
268 The Psychic World
pp. 402-5, (and in Side Show and Animal Tricks), but
Sir William Crookes, who tried a number of them out,
asserted that many of them do not actually work, and
that, in any case, the hands of the sitters were certainly
unprepared. We are thus left with an unexplained prob
lem on our hands. These fire tests of Home certainly give
us pause, and prevent us from coming to any too-hasty
conclusion with regard to the fire-walking ceremonies,
such as those we have described. If the one set of phe
nomena are genuine, the other may be also. We can only
hold our judgment in suspense. There may be an ex
traordinary, supernormal element in these fire-walk cere
monies, but only a prolonged, first-hand investigation can
settle this matter one way or the other.
[Note: It may perhaps be of interest to the reader
to know that a tentative explanation of these fire tests
was put forward many years ago by students of the
Occult : this was that the body is protected, in all such
cases, by a semi-fluidic emanation or aura, which thus
acts as a sort of protective coating or sheath, prevent
ing injury to the surface of the body. I merely give the
theory, as stated, adding that this same explanation has
been independently advanced in many different quar
ters, and that some such theory seems to be held
by the natives undertaking the fire walk.]
Rain Making and Rain Makers
We now come to our consideration of rain making
by native magicians —a universally believed-in magical
phenomenon among primitive peoples. The reader may
perhaps be inclined to become impatient that I should
even stop to consider anything so manifestly preposter
ous, judged by our Western standards. Considering the
Psychic Phenomena 269
question merely from the psychological point-of-view,
however, it has great interest, and, at the very lowest
estimate, throws a valuable side-light upon the work
ings of the primitive mind. Further, in psychical re
search, we should accustom ourselves to consider
accounts of reputed phenomena of every character im
partially, no matter how impossible they may appear to
us a priori. These accounts, on any theory, have a defi
nite historic interest, and should be considered accord
ingly.
A careful distinction must be made between the sav
age rain maker, who endeavors to influence the ele
ments by means of his magic, and the modern, scientific
attempts to produce the same results by physical and
electrical methods. There is a wide-spread belief, for in
stance, that rain can be produced by explosions, and
that, because of this "rain almost invariably follows a
battle." Much money has been spent in experiments
along this line, but it may be said that this idea is no
longer credited, and the belief is now given up by
meteorologists. The same may be said of the numerous
chemical and electrical methods which have been tried.
Neither will great fires, nor the liberation of great
clouds of smoke or dust produce rain. In fact, the con
sensus of expert opinion today is that there is no known
method by which rain can be produced artificially and
at will. All experiments along this line have ended in
disappointment and failure. (See, in this connection:
"Weather Making, Ancient and Modern," by Mark
W. Harrington, Smithsonian Institution Report,
1004, pp. 249-70; Meteorology, by Charles F. Tal-
man, of the American Meteorological Society, pp.33 2-
45 ; Weather Science, by R. G. K. Lempfert, etc.)
270 The Psychic World
It is rather surprising, therefore, to say the least, to
learn that there are, in Africa, America and elsewhere,
certain witch-doctors, medicine-men, etc., who claim ac
tually to control the elements and to make rain ! They
do not rely upon any of the above methods, but depend
for their results upon magical ceremonies alone ! The
natural reaction of common sense
is,
of course, that
such claims are preposterous, and we cannot seriously
believe that these men interfere with the processes of
nature and cause the downfall of rain. Nevertheless,
the belief
in
this power among primitive peoples has
been almost universal, and there are many facts con
nected with
it
which are at least striking and curious.
The belief of the average man, for instance,
is
that,
whenever there
is
a
drought,
a
witch-doctor
is
called
in, and he performs the customary ceremony. Some
times
it
rains shortly afterwards, and sometimes
it
does
not;
it
is
all
a
matter of luck or chance; those occasions
in
which he was successful are remembered, while those
when he was not are forgotten or overlooked. This
is
far from being the case.
It
is
a
serious matter indeed
for the professional rain maker to fail, when called
upon by his tribe. The first failure may be perhaps over
looked —though even then the magician "loses face" to
a
greater or lesser extent. The second failure, however,
almost invariably means death to the rain maker.
I
have
looked up the records of many tribes, and
I
find that
this
is
the all-but-universal rule. Yet many of these
medicine-men are very old, and have been making rain
for many years! They seem rarely to have failed.
These facts are, as
I
have said, at least curious and
in
teresting, and should at any rate justify our tolerant
examination of the evidence. A few extracts will illus
Psychic Phenomena 271
trate the methods employed. Sir J. G. Frazer, in that
great storehouse of myth and folk-lore, The Golden
Bough, says :
"Of the things which the public magician sets him
self to do for the good of the tribe, one of the chief
is to control the weather and especially to insure an
adequate fall of rain. In savage communities the rain
maker is a very important personage ; and often a spe
cial class of magicians exist for regulating the heavenly
water supply."
Frazer devotes some ninety pages of his work to a
rapid survey of the methods of controlling the weather
that have found credence among the various races of
mankind. These range all the way from the most com
plicated ceremonies to the summary expedient of
throwing a passing stranger into a river to bring rain !
In America, many Indian tribes have attempted to
produce rainy or dry weather, according to require
ments. Among these may be mentioned the Mandan,
the Muskingum, the Moqui, the Natchez, Zuni, Choc-
taws, and others. For this purpose pipes were smoked,
tobacco was burned, prayers and incantations were of
fered, arrows were discharged towards the clouds,
charms were used, and various other methods were em
ployed.
Catlin, in his Life Among the Indians (p. 78), says
that he found that the Mandan had rain makers and
rain-stoppers, who were respected medicine men "from
the astonishing facts of their having made it rain in an
extraordinary drought, and for having stopped it rain
ing when the rain was continuing to an inconvenient
length."
272 The Psychic World
Heckewclder, in his Account of the Indians of Penn
sylvania (p. 229) says:
"There are jugglers, generally old men and women,
who get their living by pretending to bring down the
rain when wanted. . . . An old man was applied to by
the women to bring down rain, and, after various cere
monies, declared that they should have rain enough.
The sky had been clear for nearly five weeks, and was
equally clear when the Indian made this declaration;
but about 4 o'clock in the afternoon the horizon became
overcast, and, without any thunder or wind, it began
to rain, and continued to do so until the ground became
thoroughly soaked."
Heckewelder adds that "experience had doubtless
taught the juggler to observe that certain signs in the
sky and in the water were the forerunners of rain."
Among the Blackfeet Indians, according to W. P.
Clark, in his Indian Sign Language (p. 72) :
"The Medicine Man has a separate lodge which
faces the East. He fasts and dances to the sun, blow
ing his whistle. . . . The dance continues for four days,
and should this medicine man drink it is sure to cause
rain, and if it does not rain no other evidence of his
weakness is wanted or taken. He is deposed as high
priest at once." *
• See also, in this connection, E. A. Smith, Myths of the Iroquois ;
Father Charlevoix, Voyage to North America, Vol. II., p. 203; J.
Owen Dorsey, "Third Report of the Bureau of Ethnology," p. 227;
John Frost, The Indians of North America, p. 109; Schoolcraft,
History, eta, Vol. III., p. 208 ; Capt. J. G. Bourke, The Snake Dance
of the Moqui, p. 120; Stevenson, "Second Ann. Rep. Bureau of
Ethnology," p. 371 ; Acosta, History of the Indies, Hakluyt Society
Edition, Vol. II., pp. 312, 313, etc.
Psychic Phenomena 273
Turning now to Africa, we find the following graphic
account of a native rain maker in active operation in
Charles Beadle's book Witch Doctors (pp. 5 5-60) :
"As a pallid moon rose, as if fearfully, above the
deep ultramarine of the banana fronds, was a magic
potion brewed from certain herbs in enchanted water,
with which the King, Zalo Zako, his son, and the King's
wives were laved. Amid a tempest of screams and
drums rose Kawa Kendi purified, to be driven by the
wizards back to the hill of his father, leaving the as
sembled chiefs squatting humbly and in dread of the
spirits abroad in the night. . . .
"The Keeper of the Fires came forward upon his
hands and thrust the other sacred gourd in front of the
King, a deep one containing water, and a wand made
from a sacred tree which had upon the end a crook.
To the groaning of the magicians, the King took from
the one gourd two stones of quartz and granite, the
male and the female, and spat upon each one, thus
placing part of his royal body upon them Save for
the distant wailing, there was the silence of those wait
ing for a miracle. In the sky, at the back of the idol,
was the paling of dawn. . . . Suddenly, as if exasper
ated by the non-obedience of the elements, Kawa Kendi
sprang to his feet, with the magic wand in his right
hand, turned and stared apparently into the face of the
idol. For a full two minutes he stood as if carven, while
the doctors and the chiefs moaned dismally. Around
him like a pall still hovered the smoke of the magic
fire. . . . Then, shooting out his right hand, Kawa Kendi
made gestures as if hooking something invisible, and
began to scream furiously. ... In a slight puff of wind,
274 The Psychic World
the smoke, lace-edged with the dawn-light, swayed,
seeming to twine about the figure of the King as he
stood with the wand outheld, as if firmly hooked in the
guts of the recalcitrant elements. . . . Against the rose
of the dawn appeared a dark line which increased as
the magicians and chiefs moaned and groaned in sym
pathy with the furious efforts of the rain maker, who
threatened and pulled with the magic crook, so that
everybody could see that he was indeed dragging the
reluctant clouds from over the end of the earth. As the
dark mass swelled the more he wrestled and screamed
abuse at the dilatory spirit of the rain.
"And behold, within half an hour, the great black
spirits sailed across the scarlet sunshine and wept ex
ceeding bitterly ; while from the village went up a great
shout of praise to the triumphant King, still prancing
and cursing to such good effect up on the hill. . . ."
The above account, of course, is intended to be
merely descriptive of the general character of a rain-
making ceremony —without intending to be in any way
evidential of the phenomenon itself. As such, however,
it has (it seems to me) no little interest, enabling us
to obtain a sort of bird's eye picture of the ceremony in
active operation. Actual instances of alleged rain mak
ing have rarely been investigated or recorded —which
is greatly to be regretted, in view of the universality
of the belief. At all events, a brief mention of rain
making and rain makers must necessarily be included
in the present account, which aims to present a fairly
comprehensive summary of savage psychism and magic.
Psychic Phenomena 275
We come, now, to a study of magical rites and cere
monies, properly speaking. It must not be thought that
the belief in Magic is limited entirely to savages: on
the contrary, many learned men in all ages have be
lieved in and practiced it; and in our own day it finds
representatives such as Eliphas Levi, Papus and
Aleister Crowley. Even the belief in witchcraft is still
very much alive—as Theda Kenyon showed in her book
Witches Still Live. Limiting ourselves, for the present,
to primitive peoples, however, we may first of all con
sider the Secret Organizations wherein such magical
practices flourish.
Secret Occult Societies
In all ages and countries students of the Occult have
more or less banded themselves together in secret or
ganizations. In former times, this was doubtless due
largely to fear of punishment, torture and death, in
flicted by the ecclesiastical and civil authorities, for
their unorthodox "prying into the secrets of Nature,"
or "the Mysteries of God." The "secrets" imparted
were evidently considered precious and dangerous by
those imparting them! While many of these were
doubtless natural phenomena —now included as a mat
ter-of-course in our text-books on physics, chemistry
and biology —there is evidence that some of these
secrets related to psychic phenomena, and that what
we might call seances were regularly held in these
meetings. Such Societies still exist, in all parts of the
world, and it is only natural that they should be found,
also, among primitive peoples.
Captain F. W. Butt-Thompson has recently pub
lished an exhaustive work upon the subject: West
276 The Psychic World
African Secret Societies, in which he has furnished us
with much valuable information concerning them, and
here we find (as we might have suspected) that initia
tion into mediumship constitutes one of their most im
portant rites. Many cases of psychic phenomena are
given, which compare with those investigated by our
modern scientists. These include augury, crystal-gazing,
geomancy, sortilage, clairvoyance, clairaudience, psy-
chometry and even direct voice. Trance is common and
telepathy taken almost as a matter-of-course. It is in
teresting to note that "if any one dares to practice as a
'doctor' unless properly initiated, he is executed —un
less in territory governed by Europeans. . . . That is
their way of disposing of frauds and keeping medium-
ship pure. . . ." Many interesting cases are given in this
book, as well as in the same author's Black Magic.
But why, today, the need for such secrecy? Perhaps
the answer to this question is that given by Mr. John
W. Vandercook who, in an article on "The Case for
Magic Science in West Africa," *
says:
"Since the white aggression began its swarming
slaughter over the lands beloved by the Blacks, they
have felt with ever-increasing force that their one last
hope for survival is to keep their wisdom hidden. They
realize —and state frankly —that if magic, too, passed
into destroying hands there would be nothing left at
all."
And he continues :
"There is perhaps nothing genuinely magical, i.e.,
inexplicable in either cure of disease or hypnotism. But
• Harper's Magazine, February, 1928.
Psychic Phenomena 277
telepathy—still for the want of a better word—as
practiced in West Africa, attains reaches of sheer
marvel that defy explaining, surely till we have learned
far more than we at present understand. The most
straight-forward and common telepathy in the jungles
. . . survives, namely, the uncanny prewarning of a
visitor's approach relayed invisibly from one witch
doctor to another Many natives can deliberately
convey by mental projection the most elaborate and
minute details of an event of importance, or of a per
son for whose arrival preparations are to be made. . . .
The magicians admit the gift, say it can be taught to
any intelligent pupil —but never of course to a white
man. . . .
Of the secret Orders which exist, none perhaps is
more fascinating than the Dervishes. This order still
flourishes in Northern Africa, Arabia, Turkey and
along the southern strip of Asia adjoining India. There
are said to be twelve original Orders : the Rufaee, the
Sadee, the Suhraverdee, the Shibanee, the Mevlevee,
the Kadiree, the Nakshibondee, the Vaisee, the Jel-
vettee, the Khalvettee, the Bedawee, and the Dus-
sookee. Of these, the Mevlevee, or dancing Dervishes,
and the Rufaees, or so-called howling Dervishes, are
the best known in the Occident. The Dervishes would
doubtless characterize themselves as a religious body;
as a matter of fact, they are also ascetics, Fakirs,
fanatics, priests, followers of Yoga, students of the
Occult Sciences, and a dozen other things combined. A
lengthy study of their customs and beliefs was made
by Mr. John P. Brown, late Secretary of the U. S.
Delegation at Constantinople, and he published his
278 The Psychic World
findings in a work entitled The Dervishes: or, Oriental
Spiritualism —to which I would refer the interested
reader for further particulars.*
The interesting thing about these Dervishes, from
our present point-of-view, is that they are apparently
enabled to inflict severe pain and injury upon them
selves, without suffering in consequence —stab them
selves with knives and daggers, eat live spiders and
scorpions, and permit themselves to be bitten by poison
ous snakes, without any ill effects ! Such, at least, are
the tales of numerous eye-witnesses. All these things
take place when the performer is in an exalted or
ecstatic state of mind. Several accounts of this nature
were collected and published by Mr. Campbell Homes,
in his Facts of Psychic Science and Philosophy (pp.
482-86), and also in my own book The Story of Psy
chic Science. What credence can be attached to these
accounts is a matter for debate. That these men have
an extraordinary control over the general functions of
the body there can be no doubt; further, it is highly
probable that they possess much secret knowledge con
cerning antidotes for poisons, as well as of poisons
themselves. The point is: to what extent may such ex
planations be carried before admitting anything defi
nitely supernormal? For my own part, I must be
content, for the present, with having no opinion —leav
ing my judgment in suspense.
The Dervishes are great users of Hasheesh, a drug
which is known to produce visions and hallucinations of
all sorts. It is certainly possible that Hasheesh and
similar drugs may, in addition to their normal physio-
• See also an article on the "Dervishes" in the Occult Review,
June, 1912.
Psychic Phenomena 279
logical and psychological effects, enable the subject to
become genuinely clairvoyant, as the natives themselves
believe. Some recent experiments with Peyotl seem to
indicate this quite strongly.* This, however, is a subject
about which a whole article could be written, and we
have not time to consider it now. Suffice it to say that
many savage sorcerers combine drug-taking with their
other magical ceremonies —just as the medieval witches
rubbed their bodies with "witches' unguent," and the
Pythoness of Delphi inhaled the vapor issuing from a
cleft in the rock, before uttering her famous Oracular
discourses.
Voodooism
We now come to a particular branch or aspect of
magical practices, which has, of late years, received
considerable attention from students and travelers, and
concerning which a good deal has been said in the pub
lic press and elsewhere. I refer to the Voodoo rites
and ceremonies, which have from time to time caused
the authorities no little anxiety. While blood sacri
fices undoubtedly play an important part in any Voodoo
ceremony, it is now generally admitted that human
sacrifice is exceedingly rare; being limited, in all prob
ability, almost exclusively to certain savage tribes in
Central Africa. The Spell cast by a Voodoo doctor is
known as a "hoodoo"—a word which has found its
way into the English language almost without our be
ing aware of the fact ! A brief summary of Voodoo
witch-magic will doubtless suffice for our present pur
poses.
• See Journal, A.S.P.R., November, 1925, pp. 661-3, and November,
1926, p. 666.
280 The Psychic World
Voodooism may roughly be defined as a form of
witchcraft, in which the voodoo doctor seeks to influ
ence, or cast a spell upon, another person by means of
black magic. Certainly, voodooism is more than this;
it is a vitally active religion also, in which ceremonials
play a prominent part, and altars, incense, songs, etc.,
are included. It is a religion in much the same sense that
witchcraft originally was. However, voodooism is in
variably associated in the public mind with its practical
aspects, and it is in this sense, and not as a religion,
that we are to discuss it. The word is of doubtful
origin, but as Mr. Theodore Besterman points out (in
his article on "Voodooism," in the Occult Review, July,
1927) it is probably derived from the Ewe (West
African) word vodu, god. It originated in Africa and
was carried to Haiti by the slaves, and also into the
Southern States of America. Haiti is now considered
the headquarters of voodooism, where it still flourishes
extensively, despite the efforts of the authorities to
stamp it out.
The voodoo doctors are often known in Africa as
Wonder Workers, Black Magic Men, Necromancers,
The Devil's Own, and by similar titles, and are greatly
feared by the natives. There can be no question what
ever that, after a voodoo doctor has cast a spell upon
a man, that man often sickens and dies; there are hun
dreds of well-authenticated cases to prove this. The
only question is: What causes this sickness and death?
Believers in voodoo, of course, say that it is the spell
which the witch doctor has cast, but powerful auto
suggestion may be credited with a large share of the
result, while it is practically certain that many of their
victims are merely poisoned. That these natives possess
Psychic Phenomena 281
an extensive knowledge of subtle poisons is certain, one
of them, I understand, being made from the intestines
of a certain caterpillar, native to Africa. To what ex
tent telepathy, hypnotism and genuine supernormal
powers may be associated with voodooism is of course
a problem. Mr. W. B. Seabrook, after living with the
voodoo people for several months, and after having
been allowed to witness certain of their ceremonies,
came to the deliberate conclusion that genuine Magic
was at work—as we shall see presently. For the mo
ment, however, let us take a sample case of voodooism
from Africa, by way of illustration. I quote from an
article in the Occult Review (September, 19 14), on
"Voodooism in West Africa," by Irene E. Toye
Warner, Member of the British Astronomical Associa
tion—being narrated to her by an eye-witness.
"One day," (the account runs) "whilst at a place
called Axim, on the Gold Coast, Prince Karatsupo
came to me and asked if I had ever seen the voodoos
at work, to which I replied that I had not. 'Then,' said
he, 'a marvelous opportunity presents itself for you to
see them, and with my introduction I do not think
there will be any difficulty in allowing you to witness
their work. Mind you, a lot of their business is what
you would call hellish, beastly and repugnant, but that
they accomplish results there is no doubt on this earth!'
"Accordingly that afternoon I was conducted to the
hut of a woman, who might have seen forty-five sum
mers, and what seemed to me two daughters, aged
eighteen and twenty-three respectively. The woman
eyed me very suspiciously at first, put two or three
questions to me, and then said 'He'll dol' for evi
282 The Psychic World
dently I was considered worthy to be allowed to ob
serve their ceremonies intact. . . .
"Through the Prince, they explained to me that
they were being paid a large sum of money by a na
tive exporter to remove a certain white man, who was
fast supplanting him in the palm oil business on the
Gold Coast. . . .
"Accordingly, at about 3 o'clock, the hellish work
commenced. Herbs were burnt by way of incense, and
to any one standing by, they would quickly have known
that the devil had got his own, for the stench was un
bearable! Then certain chants and incantations took
place, and, to look at the faces of those three women,
the elder one especially, you could easily conceive that
hell and hate were typified therein. A poor innocent
cockerel was then seized: I think three feathers were
pulled out over his heart, and his neck wrung off in very
quick time. What incantations took place I am unable
to say, but I am sure they were diabolical.
"Then the younger girl tore open the skin over the
heart and plunged the feathers into the blood, soaking
them thoroughly. After which she proceeded to the
residence of the white man, and, being in touch with
his servant, a Kroo-boy, got into his hut and safely
planted the feathers, with their cursed weight of vil
lainy and murder, in a crevice near the bed.
"To all intents and purposes this man was well and
healthy at the time to which we refer. This at least was
the unanimous opinion of the public In the middle
of the night the doomed man was reported to have
yelled with excruciating pain, which continued at inter
vals until morning, when he seemed to have revived.
During the day he had the pains at intervals and con
Psychic Phenomena 283
suited a medical man who was located at Axim, on one
of the Gold Company's concessions. . . . On the third
day at the same hour the man died."
Several similar instances are given in the article re
ferred to, and might be amplified from other sources.
A striking and graphic account of a voodoo cere
mony is given in W. B. Seabrook's The Magic Island
before referred to. After describing the preliminary
ceremonies —the chants, invocations, the sacrifice of
cocks, doves, a white turkey, etc.—Mr. Seabrook con
tinues :
"The ceremony of substitution, when it came, was
pure effective magic of a potency which I have never
seen equaled in Dervish monastery or anywhere. . . .
The girl was now on her hands and knees in the atti
tude of a quadruped, directly facing the goat, so that
their heads and eyes were on a level, less than ten
inches apart, and thus they stared fixedly into each
other's eyes, while the papaloi's hands weaved slowly,
ceaselessly above their foreheads, the forehead of the
girl and the forehead of the horned beast, each wound
with red ribbons, each already marked with the blood
of the white dove. By shifting slightly I could see the
big, wide, pale-blue, staring eyes of the goat, and the big,
black eyes of the girl, and I could have almost sworn
that the black eyes were gradually, mysteriously be
coming those of a dumb beast, while the human soul
was beginning to peer out through the blue. But dismiss
that, and still I tell you that pure magic was here at
work, that something very real and fearful was
occurring
284 The Psychic World
"While the papaloi still wove his spells, his hands
moving ceaselessly like an old woman carding wool in
a dream, the priestess held a twig green with tender
leaves between the young girl and the animal. She held
it on a level with their mouths, and neither saw
it,
for
they were staring fixedly into each other's eyes as en
tranced mediums stare into crystal globes, and with
their necks thrust forward so that their foreheads
al
most touched. Neither could therefore see the leafy
branch, but as the old mamaloi's hand trembled, the
leaves flicked lightly as
if
stirred by
a
little breeze
against the hairy muzzle of the goat, against the chin
and soft lips of the girl. And after moments of breath
less watching,
it
was the girl's lips which pursed out and
began to nibble at the leaves. Human beings, normally,
when eating, open their mouths and take the food
di
rectly
in
between their teeth. Except for sipping liquids
they do not use their lips. But the girl's lips now nib
bling at the leaves were like those of
a
ruminating ani
mal. ...
It
sounds
a
slight thing, perhaps,
in
the de
scribing, but
it
was weird, unnatural, unhuman. . .
.
"As she nibbled thus, the papaloi said
in
a
hushed
but wholly matter-of-fact whisper, like
a
man who had
finished
a
hard, solemn task and was glad to rest, 'Ca
y
est' (There
it
is).
"The papaloi was now holding
a
machete, ground
sharp and shining. Maman Celie, priestess, kneeling,
held
a
gamelle,
a
wooden bowl.
It
was oblong. There
was just space enough to thrust
it
narrowly between
the mystically identified pair. Its rim touched the goat's
hairy chest and the girl's body, both their heads being
thrust forward above it. Neither seemed conscious of
anything that was occurring, nor did the goat flinch
Psychic Phenomena 285
when the papaloi laid his hand upon its horns. Nor did
the goat utter any sound as the knife was drawn
quickly, deeply across its throat. But at this instant, as
the blood gushed like a fountain into the wooden bowl,
the girl, with a shrill, piercing, then strangled bleat of
agony, leaped, shuddered, and fell senseless before the
altar."
It must be understood, of course, that the above ac
count represents merely a part of Mr. Seabrook's ini
tiation into the Voodoo Cult, and is not intended to
depict the usual Voodoo magical rite, in which some
individual is bewitched, or has a spell cast upon him,
by the native practitioner. It gives us, however, a vivid
picture of a savage magical ceremony, and, inasmuch
as Mr. Seabrook
is,
I
believe, one of the few white
men who have ever been initiated into the Voodoo
Cult,
it
constitutes
a
document of first-rate historic and
psychological importance.
As to the actual results obtained
by
Voodoo doc
tors, these have been, of course, very imperfectly
studied by intelligent observers; partly, no doubt, be
cause of the secrecy of the natives, and partly because
of the intolerant skepticism with which white men have
invariably regarded such practices. That strange re
sults are obtained by Voodoo doctors there can be no
doubt
:
these results are probably due,
in
large part, to
fear, anticipation, and the baneful effects of auto
suggestion, working upon superstitious and credulous
minds.
It
has been pretty conclusively established, also,
that poison
is
extensively used, as
a
means of doing
away with the intended victim. It
is
largely because of
this fact that such drastic measures have recently been
286 The Psychic World
adopted to suppress Voodooism in Africa, wherever
the native population has come under European sway.
Magic and Witchcraft
(General Discussion)
"You will hardly find a white man who has lived
long alone in West Africa who does not think there
may be something in Fetish," writes Miss Mary H.
Kingsley, in her article on "The Forms of Apparitions
in West Africa," (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XIV, pp.
331-42). According to Tylor, Fetishism consists essen
tially in "The doctrine of spirits embodied in, or at
tached to, or conveying influence through, certain ma
terial objects,"—hence the employment of charms,
talismans, etc., and the basis for much of the belief in
witchcraft. "In many cases," says the Encyclopaedia
Britannica, "the fetish-spirit is believed to leave the 'god
house,' and pass for the time being into the body of the
priest, who manifests the phenomena of possession."
The trance-like sleep—whether induced or sponta
neous—plays an essential role in many forms of
Magic, and has been known to the natives of many
countries for centuries. It is in this trance state that
many of their prophetic utterances are given.
It is only natural that abnormal states of body and
mind should have been associated with supernatural
powers by primitive peoples; that certain forms of in
sanity should be revered, and that epilepsy should have
been regarded as a god-given gift. The abnormal and
the supernormal are closely allied. The connections be
tween genius and degeneration have formed the theme
for more than one learned monograph ! Lombroso, who
of course had a special nose for such things, expatiated
Psychic Phenomena 287
at considerable length upon these connections. In his
book After Death —What? (Chapter: "Mediums and
Magicians in Savage Tribes") he says:
"Among the Zulus, the Bechuanas, and the Walla-
Wallas the profession of medicine is hereditary, there
fore the fathers choose certain sons, to whom they give
counsel. . . . The same is true with the Siberian
shamans. . . . Among the Kafirs, before electing a
diviner, it is necessary to test his skill in the discovery
of malefactors, finding lost articles, and recognizing a
disease and its cause. . . . With the Aleout, as among
the yogis and fakirs of India and the shamans of
Siberia, their supreme aspiration is to attain the rapt,
trance-like state of ecstasy. They exhibit symptoms
which may be classed with epilepsy. They possess
strange lucidity of mind and hyperesthesia, and believe
in the persecution of demons who come to torment
them. . . . During their prophetic fury they abandon
themselves to strange convulsive fury, contortions, to
unearthly howlings, foaming at the mouth, with face
and eyes so congested that for the time they lose their
sight Another method is to incite convulsions by
rapid motions of the head and by intoxicating sub
stances. . . . Thus the pathological, epileptoid origin of
the medium is attested by the universal consensus of
all ancient and barbarous peoples. ... In the case of the
Bilculas the initiation into medicine is accomplished
with fastings and prayers; among the red Pollis, with
fastings, dreams, and withdrawal into the forest and
into solitude ; among the black aborigines of Australia,
by solitary search for the spirit of a dead doctor. . . .
It is the custom of the Indians of Gamina to have their
288 The Psychic World
candidate for the 'doctor's degree' eat leaves of a spe
cial kind and live alone in the forest until the spirit
appears. . . ."
At the same time, Lombroso was among the first
to call attention to the fact that these abnormal condi
tions open the doors, so to say, very often, to the in
flux of genuine supernormal phenomena, for he says:
"The special conditions of the trance . . . give to the
medium at a stated moment extraordinary faculties,
which she certainly did not have before the trance and
which ordinary persons do not have. Above all, the
action of the unconscious is intensified. Those centers
which seem dormant in the ordinary life come into
activity and predominate. Matters forgotten years ago
are recalled. The thought of persons present is divined
and assimilated. . . . When she (i.e., Eusapia) is about
to enter the trance state, she lessens the frequency of
the respiratory movements, just as do the fakirs, pass
ing from 1 8 inspirations to 15 and 12 a minute; while,
on the other hand, the heart-beats increase from 70 to
90, and even to 120. The hands are seized with jerk-
ings and tremors. The joints of the feet and the hands
take on movements of flexure and extension, and every
little while become rigid. The passing from this stage
to that of active somnambulism is marked by yawns,
sobs, perspiration on the forehead, passing of insensible
perspiration through the skin of the hands, and strange
physiognomical expressions. Now she seems a prey to
a kind of anger, expressed by imperious commands and
sarcastic and critical phrases, and now to a state of
voluptuous-erotic ecstasy.
Psychic Phenomena 289
"In the state of trance she first becomes pale, turn
ing her eyes upward and her sight inward and nodding
her head to right and left ; then she passes into a state
of ecstasy, exhibiting many of the gestures which are
frequent in hysterical fits, such as yawnings, spasmodic
laughter, frequent chewing, together with clairvoyance.
She comprehends the thought of those present when
they do not express it aloud. . . . Toward the end of the
trance, when the more important phenomena occur, she
falls into true convulsions and cries out like a woman
who is lying-in, or else falls into a profound sleep,
while from the aperture in the parietal bone of her
head there exhales a warm fluid, or vapor, sensible
to the touch. . . . Politi, when out of the trance, does
not exhibit any anomaly : in the trance this medium has
convulsions, anaesthesias, terrific zoomorphic hallucina
tions, delirious ideas of persecution.
"
The point to be emphasized, in the above quotation,
is that abnormal mental and bodily states and condi
tions may frequently be associated with supernormal
powers, but that the latter are in no way explained by
the former. That is a point which is frequently con
fused or overlooked by our modern psychiatrists —as
I have endeavored to show at considerable length else
where.*
When we encounter these same abnormal conditions
in savage mediums, magicians and witch-doctors, there
fore, we are not entitled to dismiss them as mere
epileptics or madmen—as is usually done —but must
study the phenomena produced through their instru-
• Modern Psychical Phenomena, pp. 14-35: Ch. "Abnormal vs.
Supernormal Psychology."
290 The Psychic World
mentality, to see whether or not supernormal knowl
edge may at times become manifest through them also.
This, it will be observed, is a new method of regarding
the facts, and throws an entirely new light upon these
manifestations. We must study them impartially, as
we must (or should !) study our own mediums.
With these thoughts in mind, then, let us turn our
attention to a few accounts of magic and witchcraft,
as practiced by native magicians in Africa, India,
Afghanistan, Australia, the Fiji Islands and elsewhere.
A rapid summary of this will be sufficient.
According to the Rev. J. A. Chalmers, there are six
classes of witch-doctors among the Kafirs, and careful
distinction must be made between these men and the
wizards or sorcerers, such as those found on the West
Coast of Africa, for instance. The latter work harm
and evil, and cause death, while the witch-doctor is
trusted by the natives, and regarded as their friend. He
is the one who cures them of sickness and smells out
the guilty one when, for instance, a theft or a murder
has been committed. This ceremony of smelling out the
guilty man is very curious and interesting. It consists
essentially in having all the men of the village
brought together, while the witch-doctor walks amongst
them, often with a small rod in his hands, resembling a
divining rod. He is almost invariably enabled to select
the guilty man, who thereupon confesses. He rarely
fails in his selection.*
•See "Black Magic in South Africa," by I. E. Toye Warner,
The Occult Review, October, 1914; "Psychic Faculties of the Kafirs,"
by I. T. Warner-Staples, F.R.A.S., ibid., February, 19*9; "Some
African Occult Doings," by Oje Kule Kun, May-June, 1907; etc.
In modern Egypt, we also find the distinction between High and
Low Magic, or Divine and Satanic. (O. R., April, 1916.)
Psychic Phenomena 291
Writing on "Algerian Magic," Mr. Vere D. Shortt
says:
"Algerian professors of magic are divided into three
classes. The Dervish, who is solely a religious magician,
and claims to hold his powers direct from Allah; the
white magician, who is very often little more than a
hakim, or doctor, with a considerable knowledge of the
properties of herbs, and whose stock-in-trade consists
of this knowledge and a few inconsiderable tricks de
signed to impress the ignorant; and the black magician,
who claims to hold his power solely from his own per
sonal mastery over the evil forces of nature .
Powers of some kind, which are at present unknown
to the Western world, these men certainly have
In all magic, white as well as black, it is an understood
thing that thought is force, and under certain circum
stances is capable of creating an entity or entities. Ac
cording to Eastern belief, a practitioner of magic can
by following prescribed rules, and by concentrating his
thought in a certain way, actually either liberate from
another sphere, or even actually create an entity which,
under strictly regulated rules and within certain limits,
will do his bidding. This entity may be either good or
bad, its malevolence or otherwise depends entirely
upon its creator, but if used for malignant purposes,
and if set to do a task beyond its powers, or especially
if used against any one in the possession of a stronger
spirit, it will infallibly return and destroy its master,
afterwards becoming free, and one of the host of
afrites, or evil spirits, which according to Eastern be
lief, are everywhere. . .
"
(O. R., July, 1914.)
292 The Psychic World
Much the same extraordinary powers are credited
to the Marabouts of North Africa and Morocco, con
cerning whom Mr. L. Grant says:
"Their wonderful and mysterious power of occult
telegraphic communication with each other is a fact,
and in the case of a general uprising might be a source
of serious import. . . ." (Ibid., June, 1921.)
In Africa as elsewhere, however, careful distinction
must be made between the higher and lower forms of
magic and witchcraft, for the lowest forms are de
graded and crude indeed. Mr. Frank H. Melland has
drawn a lurid picture of this type of magic for us in his
book In Witchbound Africa. The magicians are said
to traffic in elementals and transform themselves into
animals (lycanthropy) . Helen M. Boulnois, F.R.A.I.,
has narrated the tale of a "leopard man" in her article
on "Sorcery in France and Africa," (O. R., March-
April, 1926). Curious and incredible as it may appear,
some accounts of animal transformations of the kind
have recently been forthcoming from otherwise credi
ble witnesses. In the Cornhill Magazine, for October,
19 1 8, appeared an article entitled "The Hyenas of
Pirra," by Richard Bagot. A summary and comment
on this article by John Mostyn Clarke appeared in the
Journal S.P.R., July, 1919. Mr. Clarke writes:
"The subject of this article is the supposed power of
some individuals of a race in No. Nigeria to change
into animal form, —a somewhat startling proposition
though not unknown to legend. Mr. Bagot's article de
scribes some experiences reported by Lieut. F. person
Psychic Phenomena 293
ally, and an experience of the late Capt. Shott, D.S.O.
With variation of detail both narratives deal with the
killing of natives when in the form of supposed hyenas.
There is so much in the details which excludes common
place explanations, and the officers to whom the ex
periences happened seemed so deeply impressed with
what they learned, on further inquiry, that one is led
to wonder whether here is not some new psycho
physiological phenomenon. . . .
"Of the accounts themselves the main facts are as
follows. Raiding hyenas were wounded by gun-traps,
and tracked in each case to a point where the hyena-
traces ceased and were succeeded by human footprints,
which made for the native town. At each shooting a
man mysteriously dies in the town, all access being
refused to the body. In Lieut. F—'s experiences the
death wail was raised in the town almost immediately
after the shot; but Capt. Shott does not mention this.
In Capt. Shott's experience the beast was an 'enormous
brute,' readily trackable, which after being hard-hit
made off through the guinea-corn. It was promptly
tracked, and a spot was come upon where 'they found
the jaw of the beast lying near a large pool of blood.'
Soon after the tracks reached a path leading to the
native town. The natives next day came to Capt. Shott
—and this is the curious part of the affair—and told
him, without any regrets, that he had shot the Nefada
—a lesser head-man —who was then lying dead with
his jaw shot away. The natives gave their reasons as
having seen and spoken to the Nefada, as he was, by
his own admission, going into the bush. They heard
the gun and saw him return with his head all muffled
up and walking like a very sick man. On going next
294 The Psychic World
morning to see what was the matter . . . they found him
as stated. . . ."
In response to further inquiries, Mr. Bagot, who
was himself a member of the S.P.R., replied :
"In the article in question I merely reproduced
verbatim the reports and letters sent to the said of
ficial ... by British officers well known to him, and said
that the authenticity and good faith of the writers can
be vouched for entirely. I have evidence of precisely
similar occurrences that have come under the notice
of Italian officials in Eritrea and Somaliland ; and in all
cases it would seem that a gravel patch thrown up by
the small black ants is necessary to the process of
metamorphosis. I drew the attention of Sir James G.
Frazer (author of The Golden Bough) to this coin
cidence, and asked him if he had come across in his
researches anything which might explain the connection
between gravel thrown up by ants and the power of
projection into animal forms; but he informed me that,
so far as he could recollect, he had not done so. Italian
officials and big game hunters assure me that it is con
sidered most dangerous (by natives in Somaliland,
Abyssinia, etc.) to sleep on ground thrown up by ants;
the belief being that any one who does so is liable to be
'possessed' or obsessed by some wild animal, and that
this obsession once having taken place, the victim is
never afterwards able entirely to free himself from
it,
and
is
compelled periodically to assume the form and
habits of some beast or reptile.
.
.
."
Here we have
a
modern case of reputed lycan-
thropy!
It
is
perhaps hardly necessary to assure the
Psychic Phenomena 295
reader that I cannot believe, any more than he does,
that a man can transform himself into a leopard, a
wolf or a hyena ; but the puzzling question once more
arises—Why do such stories come to be told? The evi
dence, in the above cases, evidently proved impressive
to the narrators, and the facts are certainly most curi
ous. It is hardly necessary, again, to remind the reader
that this belief —that a human being can, under certain
conditions, transform himself into an animal—is wide
spread and extremely old. The wer-wolf (the hup-
garou of the French) is a standard tradition. How it
came into being is a question of extreme importance and
interest. It is well known that there are subjects of
lycanthropia, an imitiative madness, in which the un
fortunate individual believes himself thus transformed
into a wolf or other animal. M. Morel, in his Etudes
Cliniques (Vol. II, p. 58) gives such a case, coming
under his own observation :
" 'See this mouth,' he cried, touching his lips with
his fingers, 'it is the mouth of a wolf, and see the long
hairs which cover my body and my paws. Let me bound
away into the woods so that you may shoot me there !'
When his family endeavored to caress him, he cried
out that they were embracing a wolf. He asked for raw
meat, the only food he could touch, but on tearing it
apart he found it not to his liking, as it had not been
freshly killed. Thus he went through the tortures of
the damned until released by death."
In many cases, the subject merely wears the skin of
the animal, prowling about at night and terrifying the
inhabitants, for it is believed that merely wearing the
296 The Psychic World
animal's skin imparts to the wearer some of the at
tributes and characteristics of the animal. Such trans
formations were of course common in witchcraft cases,
as well as instances of repercussion, or the injury re
ceived by the witch, after the animal's body had been
injured, which the witch occupied for the time being.
Much could be said concerning this question of
lycanthropy —still implicitly believed in by the African
Blacks—but we have perhaps already devoted too
much space to
it,
for the purposes of the present review,
and
I
shall have to content myself by giving,
in
con
clusion,
a
few of the more important references, where
the interested reader may find the subject fully dis
cussed: Frazer,
J.
G., The Golden Bough, Vol.
I,
pp.
IS5_S6; Hamel, Frank, Human Animals; O'Donnell,
Eliott, Werwolves, and Animal Ghosts; Fiske, J.,
Myths and Myth Makers; Levi, Eliphas, Mysteries
of
Magic, pp. 237-8; D'Assier, Adolphe, Posthumous
Humanity; Salverte, E., The Philosophy
of
Magic,
Vol.
I,
p. 289; Human Leopards, by K. J. Beatty;
The Ethiopian, by Major T. C. Grant; etc.
Let us now return to our study of magic and witch
craft among primitive peoples, from
a
more general
point-of-view. Mr. Theodore Besterman,
in
an article
on "Evocation of the Dead and Kindred Phenomena
among the Natives of Madagascar," {Proceedings
S.P.R., Vol. XXXVIII, pp. 209-21), gives an account
of the general ceremonies,
in
which the spirit of some
dead ancestor
is
evoked and talks through the mouth
of an entranced medium, concluding that "one cannot
Psychic Phenomena 297
help feeling that the immensely long and troublesome
preliminaries a medium has to go through, before being
recognized as a channel through which supposed spirits
of the ancestors are willing to manifest, put deliberate
fraud out of court as a general explanation of the
phenomena of mediumship among the easy-going
Malagasy
"
I may perhaps conclude this rapid summary of magic
in Africa by the following quotations from an article
by Mr. John W. Vandercook, which appeared in
Harper's Magazine, February, 1928. It is entitled
"The Case for Magic Science in West Africa," and in
it Mr. Vandercook says :
"Magic among the Negro tribesmen of West Africa
seems to include a variety of practices. Under this
heading, first of all, comes their science of healing.
Closely allied to therapy, and branching off into in
numerable other departments, is hypnotism. Then
comes telepathy, which the witch-men seem to have
lifted to a status of a literal, teachable technic. And
lastly there is that wholly mysterious craft which deals
with man's transmutation into animal shapes, and
man's friendly fellowship with trees, night and
wind. ..." *
Turning now to New Zealand, we find very similar
beliefs and practices among the Maoris. "Although a
• Before leaving this subject of magic and witchcraft in Africa, I
should like to call the reader's attention to Mr. Harry Price's "Notes"
on this subject, which have appeared from time to time in issues
of the A.S.V.R. Journal. I merely give the dates and pages for ready
reference: January, 1926, pp. 55-58; October, 1928, p. 598; July, 1929,
p. 401; August, 1929, p. 456; October, 1929, p. 567; November, 1929,
p. 629, etc.
298 The Psychic World
chief might lose his temporal power," says Mr. Horace
Leaf, in an article on "Tapu Among the Maoris,"
(Occult Review, May, 1924), "he never could lose his
spiritual powers by means of which he often held the
exalted rank of upoko-ariki (high priest). In common
with ordinary chiefs and priests, an upoko-ariki was
believed to possess the mysterious power of 'mana.' . . .
Mana may be regarded as a mediumistic quality, as it
was derived from ayua (ancestral spirits), and through
their agency increased, diminished, or even made to
cease. ... It is well known that all forms of psychic
phenomena familiar to spiritualists and psychical re
searchers have long been practiced by the Maoris. . . ."
In Australia, black magicians were said to have been
very plentiful until the arrival of the white man, when
they rapidly decreased in numbers. (See The Native
Tribes of South-East Australia, by A. W. Howitt,
D. Sc.) "The chief articles used in the making of
charms appear to have been mainly as follows : human
fat, kangaroo fat, quartz crystal, human fibula bone,
sinews, black and white round pebbles, wood of the
oak-tree, human hair, eagle-hawk's feathers, etc. These
articles, or any other substances used as charms, are
known as Joias, and the 'throwing of a Joia' is the
projection of a magical substance invisibly, on the
victim by a magician. ... If the chief material used by
the Egyptians, and other races, in their black magic,
was wax, the primary substance of the Australian
sorcerer was certainly fat ."
In an article entitled "Black Magic in Australia," I.
E. Toye-Warner, F.R.A.S., says (Occult Review, Sep
tember, 19 16) :
Psychic Phenomena 299
"As a rule a boy is selected for training because of
the psychic power seen in him by a magician, i.e., he
may be clairvoyant and have described the spirits of
ancestors ; or have dreamed, whilst sleeping at a grave
side that the deceased had visited him. Clairvoyance
either before or after initiation seems to have been the
rule ; levitation during such ceremonies was also firmly
believed to take place. Much occult knowledge was re
vealed to the initiate in dreams, and it is a remarkable
fact that psychic power left a man if he took to drink
or became ill Whatever is fanciful about the
method by which a man becomes a magician, one thing
is certain, and that
is,
he completely believes
in
the
reality of his own power.
.
.
.
"The belief that evil may be wrought by magical
means seems to have some foundation
in
actual fact,
if
we take into consideration the power of the human
will when properly concentrated and directed.
Ibelieve
that much actual evil and sickness has been produced
by
the black magician when his will has been sufficiently
powerful. The faith
in
evil magic
is
too widespread and
long continued to be absolutely without some sub
stratum of truth. The power of hypnotic suggestion
throws
a
flood of light upon the methods and practices
of the Black Art. The latter's successes and failures can
be accounted for
by
the supposition that all are not
sensitive
in
the same degree to the psychic force of the
magician.
"Another point to notice
is
the fact that the
magician, when casting
a
spell, usually becomes partly
hypnotized himself, so that he can come into rapport
with the victim.
"Except
in
cases where real poison
is
used, my
300 The Psychic World
opinion, after careful study of the various methods, is
that evil magic works harm by the psychic power di
rected by the concentrated will of the operator on to
the sub-consciousness of the victim. If my theory be
correct, then the most certain cure for such cases will
be found in counter-hypnotic suggestion, and indeed we
find traces of this also in the fact that a more powerful
sorcerer can 'break the spell.'
"
We find precisely the same form of magic and witch
craft in Dutch Guiana, (see "White Magic and Black,"
by John W. Vandercook, Harper's Magazine, October,
1925), with some interesting additions, while similar
practices are to be found in numbers of the small islands
of the Pacific and Indian oceans (see "Black and White
Magic," by Rosita Forbes, Fortnightly Magazine,
January, 1928; etc.).
In India, as might be expected, magical practices are
very common, and implicitly believed in by the natives.
(See Omens and Superstitions of Southern India, by
Edgar Thurston, CLE., and "Black Magic in India,"
by Ethel Rosenthal, Occult Review, November, 1927.
An interesting account of certain hill sorcerers may be
found in Borderland, Vol. I, pp. 477-79.) Regarding
psychic phenomena in India generally, Mr. S. Eardley-
Wilmot, Inspector-General of Forests to the Govern
ment of India, says:
"Can it be possible that these people . . . possess in
some little measure the powers attained by their more
pious ancestry ? How otherwise can we explain the fact
that they can converse with each other at distances far
beyond the reach of the human voice; that they can
Psychic Phenomena 301
to some extent foretell the future, whilst the possession |
of these faculties is sufficiently common to create no
surprise amongst their fellows ? . . . For my own part I
would not willingly incur the ill-will of one who claims
supernatural powers ; I treat him with respect and con
sideration, and am glad to see him go in peace
"It is best to acquiesce outwardly in his theories, for
only by so doing do you learn much that would be
otherwise hidden from you; only by so doing can you
hope to succeed in gradually gaining the confidence of
your companion, though the penalty may be that your
own skepticism is shaken." (O. R., October, 1908.)
Regarding the belief in, and occurrence of, psychic
phenomena generally among North American Indians,
the following excerpts from an article by Miss Alice C.
Fletcher, of the Peabody Museum, will be of interest.
They are quoted from her article entitled "The Super
natural Among the Omaha Tribe of Indians," pub
lished in the Proceedings of the (Old) American
S.P.R., pp. 135-50. A point of particular interest, per
haps, is that the typical ghost of the Omahas is audible
rather than visible—thus differing from the ghost of
more civilized white races, where the contrary seems to
be the case. Miss Fletcher says :
"The Omahas believe that after death the spirit
travels four days seeking for the path that leads to the
home of the dead. . . .
"Heaven is thought to be a place like this world.
Each one enters heaven as he left this world ; the adult
is still an adult, the child a child. Friends welcome each
other and relatives are united. . . . There is said to be
302 The Psychic World
a succession of heavens, each one better than the pre
ceding. How many heavens there are no one could state
to me. Each succeeding heaven is reached as was the
first, the person dying in the heaven where he may be,
and entering the next above him.
"The knowledge of the hereafter seems to have been
received by visions coming to persons in a swoon.
Those having such visions declare they remain several
days where the dead live, but are finally forced to re
turn from loneliness; for, although they see their
friends and watch them at their occupations, these will
not speak to the newcomer, and ignore his presence
There are men in the tribe who spend much of their
time in seeking by fasts and other rites to have visions,
and a few persons become adepts in obtaining them.
Their dreams are supposed to have a peculiar hold
upon the supernatural and there are those among them
who profess to have constant dealings with the spirits
of animals and men. . . . The sick, when about to die,
see their deceased relatives, who bid the dying ones to
hasten and join them. . . . Among this tribe ghosts are
more frequently heard than seen. The presence of a
ghost is made known by a whistling sound. ... It may
be stated as a rule, among this tribe of Indians, that the
potency of a supernatural appearance depends upon
the physical presence of something that belonged to the
apparition in its natural existence. This, and the fact
that the folk-lore of the people has much to do with
the peculiarities of the phantasms that appear among
them, may explain why the manifestations of the super
natural fail to transcend the experience and vocations
pf daily life, , .
Psychic Phenomena 303
The above remarks are of peculiar interest in view
of the fact that the beliefs expressed (based upon seem
ing experiences) are so closely paralleled by the tenets
of modern spiritualism, and by sporadic psychic phe
nomena, as noted, throughout the world.
Conclusion
We have now completed our brief summary of meta-
psychic phenomena among primitive peoples. I cannot
claim, of course, that it is in any way exhaustive. I pos
sess neither the data nor the erudition of a Frazer or
a Tylor, and in any case the subject is doubtless well
nigh inexhaustible ! But I have endeavored to give a
fairly comprehensive summary of those practices and
beliefs, among primitive peoples, which bear more or
less directly upon our own psychical investigations —
backed-up, whenever possible, by the citation of cases
which appear to be well authenticated. Studies by
academic anthropologists in the past have all been
made on the assumption, seemingly, that of course none
of these phenomena could possibly be genuine —that
they represented, merely, the mythical beliefs of savage
minds. That was largely because these men had no
actual knowledge of genuine supernormal phenomena,
and no belief in them. (Mr. Andrew Lang was a
worthy exception.) This attitude is greatly to be re
gretted, since it doubtless influenced their conclusions,
to a great extent, and deprived us of much valuable in
formation which we might otherwise have acquired.
My object, in the present book, has been to show that
genuine phenomena of the type well known to us have
also been noted among primitive peoples, in all times
and in all countries, and that these phenomena bear a
304 The Psychic World
striking resemblance to our own. If genuine psychic
phenomena exist, and are frequently reported in civi
lized communities, it is surely only natural to suppose
that they may exist in savage countries also, and our in
vestigation of the subject —cursory as it may have been
—has, I think, shown us that this is in fact the case.
Amid the mass of myths, traditions and superstitions
of primitive peoples, therefore, we find a residuum of
genuine, supernormal facts, comparable in every way
to our own, and strikingly similar in their reported de
tails. Cases of telepathy, clairvoyance, prediction,
apparitions, haunted houses, poltergeists, physical man
ifestations, mediumistic phenomena —we find them
all, just as we find them in our midst. If the one set
of phenomena be true, the other may be also ! Just
because they occur among savage peoples is no excuse
for disbelieving them a priori. They should be impar
tially investigated, just as we investigate our own.
These phenomena seem to be quite independent of cul
ture, locality and general environmental conditions,
save to the extent that they are colored, in minor de
tails, by such influences, as we have seen. The actual
magical practices and ceremonies are doubtless limited
to the members of various secret Cults and Organiza
tions; but the spontaneous phenomena are noted
everywhere, and the possession of some sort of psychic
power seems to be far more common among primitive
races than among the more highly civilized. This
is,
perhaps, only what we should expect. Professor
Charles Richet,
in
his book The Sixth Sense, has en
deavored to show that psychic faculty
is
far more gen
eral and universal than has been commonly supposed;
and,
if
this be true of practical, skeptical Europeans
Psychic Phenomena 305
and Americans, it is doubtless still more true of the
so-called uncivilized races. At all events, I have en
deavored to show that psychic phenomena of the type
known to us may be found among these peoples also;
and I can only hope that this preliminary survey will
serve to draw the attention of other students to these
questions, to the end that a more detailed and ex
haustive study may be made of them at some time in
the future.*
• Since the above was written, several valuable additions have been
made, notably M. Caesar de Vesme's two volumes, Primitive Man
and Peoples of Antiquity, and Mr. Mar Freedom Long's Recovering
the Ancient Magic —all of extreme value to the student of psychic
phenomena.
INDEX
Index
Algerian Magic, 291
Allen, Grant, 44
Arago, zii
Archimedes, 46
Aristotle, 46, 77
Arnold, Matthew, 42
Arundel, Gerald, 238-39
Asana, 183-84
Austin, Mary, 62
Avalon, Arthur, 193
Babinet, ziii
Bagot, Richard, 292, 294
Bailey, Mrs. Alice D., 193
Bain, Alexander, 40
Beadle, Charles, 273-74
Bergson, 95, 96, 100, 103-4
Bemard-Leroy, 102-3
Besterman, Theodore, 204,
221, 238, 280, 296-97
Bird, J. Malcolm, 129, 180
Blackburn, M., 211-12
Bloch, R. M., 210, 211
Bluemel, Dr. C. S., 131
Boirac, Emile, 31
Bostock, 149
Bond, Joe, 58
Boulnois, Helen M., 292
Bowne. Prof., Ill, 112
Bramwell, Dr. J. Milne, 143
Breathing, 169
Bridges, Prof. J. W., 86-88
Browne, Gerald, 215-16
Buffon, 43
Burgess, Gellett, 141
Burlingame, Charles H., 150
Burroughs, John, 45
Butt-Thompson, Capt. F. W.,
76
Callaway, Bishop, 222-23
Carlyle, 44
Catlin, 271
Chakras, 189-91
Chalmers, Rev. J. A., 290
Chenoweth, Mrs., 128
Clark, W. P., 272
Clarke, John M., 292-94
Crawford, Earl of, 266-67
Crawford, W. J., 175
Crookes, Sir William, 164, 235,
236-37, 267, 268
Crowley, Aleister, 64-65, 275
Dallas, Miss Helen A., 16
Darwin, 44, 66
Dervishes, 277-79
DeQuincey, 44
Development, question of, 12
Dharana, 187
Dhyana, 188
Diderot, 46
Dowsing, 237-38, 248
Dreams, 17-20
Driesch, Prof. Hans, 96
Drum, signals by, 213-14
Dryden, 46
Dunne, J. W., 107
Eardley, Wilmot S., 300-01
Ecstasy, physical, 178-79
Einstein, 167, 180
Eliot, George, 40
Emerson 39, 42, 44
Emotions, 85-86
Evans-Wentz, Dr. W. Y., 257-58
Felkin, R W., 206-08
Fetishism, 286
Flammarion, Caraille, xiii
Fletcher, Miss Alice C, 301-02
Flournoy, Prof. Th., 28, 34-35, 91
Fox, Rev. C. E., 225-26
Frazer, Sir J. G, 271, 294, 296,
303
Fursac, de, Dr., 134-35
Galton, Sir Francis, 38, 39
Genius, 38-76
Giles, Dr. Herbert A., 243-45
Goethe, 41
Gordon, Dr. Alfred, 98-99
309
3io The Psychic World
Gosline, Dr. Harold J., 88
Grant, L., 292
Grasset, Dr., 102
Grottendieck, W. S., 230-32
Gurney, Edmund, 201, 203
Haggard, Rider, 14a
Hamel, Frank, 296
Hastwell, M., 263
Hazlitt, 40
Hearn, Lafcadio, 242
Heckewelder, 272
Hensoldt, Dr. Hendrick, 100
Hocken, Dr. H. M., 262, 264, 265-
66
Hodgson, Dr. Richard, 27, 36, 109,
115, 116, 119-20, 125, 138, 219,
246
Hoffding, 102
Holmes, Campbell, 278
Holt, E. B., 88
Home, D. D., 159, 165, 179, 220,
266-67
Houblon, Grahame, 226
Howitt, William, 232-34
Hughes, Commander, 217-18
Hughlings-Jackson, Dr., 99
Hull, Burling, 171
Hyslop, Dr. James H., 18, 19, 31,
35, 3*. 96. 109, H5, "5, 126,
128, 130, 138, 139, 246
Inspiration, 73-74
Jacolliot, M. Louis, 234-35, *3*,
237
James, Prof. William, 9, 31, 33,
38, 4°. 61, 72, 78, 80, 82, 83, 88,
94, 100, 101, 114, 124
Janet, Dr. Pierre, 99, ioo, 102
Jevons, Prof. F. B., 83
Jochelson, M., 249-51
Johnson, Dr., 39, 41, 47
Johnston, Sir Harry, 223-24
Joyce, James, 70
Jung, C. G., 62, 63
Karin Case, 15-16
Keating, Fred, 18
Kelly, Eleanor B., 16
Kenyon, Theda, 275
Kingsley, Miss Mary H., 286
Kops, Miss Louise, 22
Kraepelin, ioi, 135
Kundalini, 189, 191
Lamartine, 46
Lamont, Frances, 106
Lang, Andrew, 198-99, 239, 260,
266, 303
Langley, Prof. S. P., 260, 261,
263-64
Lavoisier, xv
Lawrence, Edward, 225
Leaf, Horace, 297-98
Lenz, Sidney S., 20
Leroy, Oliver, 158 et seq.
Leslie, David, 208-09
Levi, Eliphas, 275, 296
Lewes, G. H., 101
Lichtheim, Dr., 134
Lifting Tests, 170-72
Lodge, Sir Oliver J., 164
Lola (dog), 149
Lombroso, Cesar, 46, 51, 286, 2S7-
«9
Long, Max Freedom, 305
Long, William J., 149
Longfellow, 43
Lowell, 40, 44, 45
Lowell, Prof. Percival, 245-48, 261
Lycanthropy, 292-96
Macaulay, 60
Malinowski, B., 240-41
Mantrayoga, 185-86
Marshall, Dr. Henry Rutgers, 81
McDougall, Dr. William, 38, 85,
92-94, 96, 97, 114
Melland, Frank II., 292
Monckton, Capt. A. W., 227-29
Morel, M., 295
Morrison, Elizabeth, 106
Morselli, Prof. Henry, 28
Moses, Rev. Stainton, 159
Mozart, 55
Muldoon, Sylvan J., 259
Myers, F. W. H., 23, 35. 57. «7.
68. 69. 7'. 7». 74. 91-92. 100,
102, 105, 164
Nevius, Dr. John L., 245
Newton, 47, 167, 180
Nietzsche, 51
Index 3"
Nisbet, F., 46
Nordau, Max, 46
Ochorowicz, Dr. J., 164
Oppert, Dr., 264
Ostwald, Prof., 49
Packard, Dr. Fred H., 100
Palladino, Eusapia, ax, 34, 157,
159. i«4, 172-73, I73"74, 177
Papus, 275
Part, Dr. J. Shepley, 204-06
Pascal, 46, 47
Piper, Mrs. L. E.„ 16, 116, 117,
119-20, 123, 125, 126, 246, 259
Plato, xi, 46, 89
Pollard, Samuel, 225
Poltergeist cases, 17
Pranayama, 184-85
Pratyahara, 186-87
Presence, feeling of, 13-14
Price, Harry, 218, 220, 260, 263,
265, 297
Prince, Dr. Morton, 86, 88
Proctor, R. H., 101
Prodigies, 57-59
Prudhora, M., xii
Rappings, 14-15
Raymond, George L., 73
Rignano, Eugenio, 62
Relativity, 167-68, 180
Rele, Dr. Vesant G., 193
Revesz, G., 59
Ribot, 99, 100, 101, 131
Richet, Charles, 8, 28, 31, 164,
304
Rolf (dog), 149
Rope Trick, 218-20
Royse, Prof., 39
Russell, William, 171
Samadhi, 188
Schiller, Prof. F. C. S., 94
Schrenck-Notzing, Dr. von, 28, 31
Seabrook, William B., 281, 283-85
Seglas, J., 99
Sextos, Carl, 142
Sexual energies, and psychic phe
nomena, 177
Shortt, Vere D., 291
Sidgwick, Prof. Henry, 9
Sidis, Dr. Boris, 88
Skeat, Walter, 253-55
Spence, Lewis, 250
Stevenson, Robert Louis, 49
Sudre, Rene, 28, 31, 136
Sully, Dr. James, 46, 47-48, 100,
102
Taine, 42
Tanner, Dr., xv
Thomas, Northcote W., 232
Thomson, Basil, 261, 262-63, 264
Tubby, Miss Gertrude, 130
Tylor, 260, 286, 303
Vandercook, John W., 276-77, 297,
300
Vesme, de, Cesar, 305
Wakeman, M., 89
Warner Irene E. Toye, 281-83,
290, 298-300
Watson, Dr., 88
Wells, Carveth, 214
Weston, Walter N., 72-73
Wigan, Dr., 100
Wigram, Rev. W. A., 224-25
Wijk, M., 15
Woodroffe, Sir John, 193
X., Miss, 6
