{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__bryan___the_i_am_doctrines.pdf","mytitle":"The I Am Doctrines","mylang":"de"}
THE
"I AM"
DOCTRINES
OF
MR. G. W. BALLARD
(Godfre Ray King)
An Analysis
by
Dr. Gerald B. Bryan
BROCHURE No. 3
First Edition
Copyright, 1937
Gerald B. Bryan, D.C.
FORMER PUBLICATIONS
Brochure No. 1, "The I AM Experiences of Mr. G. W.
Ballard" shows conclusively how dates and subject matter
in the Ballard books disprove these experiences.
Brochure No. 2, "The I AM Teachings of Mr. G. W.
Ballard" indicates how widely the Ballard teachings are
at variance with the Christ teachings.
The price is 35£ each, postage 4{f. Order from:
DR. GERALD B. BRYAN
10952 Weyburn Ave.,
Los Angeles, California
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
Foreword 5
Mr. Ballard's Reply 7
Who Created the Animals? 12
The Ballard Taboos 17
The Ban on the Color Red 21
Sacredness of a Pledge 22
Freedom of Will of the Individual .... 25
The Entity Decrees of the Ballards ... 27
Blasting with the "Blue Lightning" ... 31
The Psychology of Destruction 34
The Catastrophe Complex 37
Unfulfilled Predictions and Promises ... 44
God is Still in His Heavens 45
The Forthcoming Publication 48
DEDICATED
TO
LOVERS OF HUMANITY
AND TO ALL TRUE SERVERS
FOREWORD
After many months of close study and investigation of
the Ballard doctrines, the evidence before me proves that
these teachings have not originated from "Ascended
Master" sources as alleged, but are products of negative
psychism, imagination, and the wholesale appropriation
from the writings of other authors.
In Brochure No. 1 it was clearly shown that Mr. Bal
lard's experiences as recorded in his books could not have
occurred as alleged. Brochure No. 2 showed that many
of the Ballard teachings were not only fallacious, but
subversive of true Christ-like spirituality.
In the present work — Brochure No. 3 — some of the
most fantastic and spiritually paralyzing doctrines of the
Ballards will be considered. A forthcoming publication —
Brochure No. 4 — will show unmistakably the real sources
of the Ballard teachings.
I am, in these brochures, gathering together certain facts
which the Ballard system of mental narcosis has been able
effectually to conceal from many of their students. It is
my obligation to uncover and to present these facts, and
I am doing it in a legitimate, open, educational way. If
you cannot see this movement the way I see
it,
with its
grotesque impossibilities and absurdities, its willful giving
out as absolute truth that which
is
but fiction, then that
is
your privilege and
I
have no wish to impose these ideas
upon you. Your freedom of will
is
estimated more highly
by me than your personal acceptance — provided
it
is
real freedom and not
a
species of hypnotic slavery.
In this endeavor to call up within you the God-given
qualities of discrimination and intuition,
I
am not making
myself karmically responsible for anything but Good.
I
5
am but using the legitimate method of the educator, and
I am trying to do it as impersonally as if I pointed out
an error in a problem in a mathematics class. There is
feeling involved, but only, I hope, that which comes from
an ardent love of Truth, Righteousness, and Intellectual
Honesty, together with an earnest desire to do my part
to help others as I would in turn like to be helped by those
who have access to information which has not been ac
cessible to me. Godspeed you — and the Ballards —
toward the shining light of Truth.
6
MR. BALLARD'S REPLY
When Brochure No. 1 was published, I mailed Mr.
Ballard a copy of it by registered mail with the following
statement:
"If you are in any way able to explain these dis
crepancies of dates and inaccuracies of subject
matter, I will feel greatly obligated to make an
announcement of your explanation and publicly
apologize to you for having misjudged you or
your writings, and do everything in my power to
set matters straight."
Mr. Ballard's reply to this was not direct, but through
another individual. A nationally known teacher of mys
ticism wrote Mr. Ballard and asked him what answer he
could give to his many students regarding my brochures.
Mr. Ballard wrote him as follows:
"As to Dr. G. B. Bryan, I simply say this — all
our time, money and energy is being spent to
heal, illumine, protect and to help set free the
sincere students of Light who come to us. We
never concern ourselves with the ravings of ignorant
human beings nor with the self-created so-called
discrepancies which exist only in their own vicious
imagination. May their own Mighty I AM Pres
ence illumine their darkened minds with its
boundless light and set them free in the service
of the Light."
In the first part of this statement Mr. Ballard leads
one to believe that he is spending all his money "to help
set free the sincere students of Light."
7
Now where did all this money come from which Mr.
Ballard says he is spending to help the students? Did it
come from the gold mine mentioned in the "Magic Pres
ence," from which "millions of dollars had been taken"?
Did it come from the mine that was to be opened up upon
Mr. Ballard's "return" from the Far East over four years
ago and the ore used for the "blessing and illumination of
mankind"? Did it come from the fabulous wealth stored
in the various retreats? Did it come by the power of
precipitation which "Saint Germain" said was in such
easy reach?
No, it came not from any of those sources. It came
from the students. They worked and earned it by normal
human processes, and gave it to Mr. and Mrs. Ballard.
And by means of it the Ballard family has been lifted to
a scale of living unknown by it before.
This money came by the sale of merchandise at good
prices and from solicited "love offerings." The Ballards
practically make it a necessity for their "nearly 200,000
students" (estimated by "Saint Germain" himself) to
possess for themselves the four "I AM" books, at an
expenditure of approximately £10.00 per person. This of
itself amounts to Two Million Dollars, merely for the
sale of the books. But many purchase the "Chart of the
Presence" and subscribe to the Ballard magazine, an addi
tional expenditure of $3.50. Then there are other neces
sary items for many, such as pictures of "Jesus" and
"Saint Germain" at $2.00 each, to say nothing of victrola
records at $3.00 each, and rings, pins, bookmarks, folders,
seals, etc., ranging from $.10 to $12.00 for each item.
Then there are the "love offerings" made at their well-
attended classes, which they themselves usually say are
8
"large and crowded to the doors." And lastly there are
the "private donations" from wealthy persons to further
an "Ascended Master's Work."
Clearly the remunerative side of this so-called "work
of Jesus and Saint Germain" has tremendous financial
possibilities — for the Ballards. In two years time it
could well run into millions of dollars. There is no telling
what people would pay for their "ascension" and the
other marvels virtually promised by the Ballards. Yet
despite this, Mr. Ballard has insisted on the platform
many times that he and Mrs. Ballard own not a thing of
their own except their "personal effects," and that it all
goes back into the work. In his reply quoted above, he
says he spends it all "to help set free the sincere students
of Light." But we have definitely shown that it is the
STUDENTS who have spent their money on Mr. Ballard.
Then as to this "time" and "energy" that Mr. Ballard
says he is spending, this is hardly more than is spent by
millions of other people in pursuing their respective voca
tions — without, by the way, attended by such glory and
acclaim from the adoring multitude. And all this, he says,
"is being spent to heal, illumine, protect and to help set free
the sincere students of Light."
Now, I ask these students of the Light how much
they are being "set free" by the Ballard method of abso
lute subservience to the mandates of Mr. and Mrs. Ballard
and their "Ascended Masters"? I ask them how much
real "illumination" they are receiving when they are com
manded "not to question," or to use their God-given
powers of discrimination to help them in their search for
Truth? I ask them how much "protection" they are re
ceiving when by the Ballard method of development they
9
are negatively opening up their centers to psychic forces
from supposedly cosmic planes under the delusion that
these influences are wholly divine?
This part of Mr. Ballard's reply is clearly no answer
to the comments and revelations made in these brochures.
It simply tries to get over the idea that the Ballards are
giving all and receiving little.
With respect to the other part of Mr. Ballard's letter,
saying: "We never concern ourselves with the ravings of
ignorant human beings" this is simply the theatrical as
sumption of a lordly attitude. It does not prove in the
least that there were any "ravings" in the brochure in
question, nor that the author of it was "ignorant."
And when Mr. Ballard says that he does not concern
himself "with the self-created so-called discrepancies which
exist only in their own vicious imagination" that is only
a further evading of the question. But it does prove that
Mr. Ballard does not hesitate to criticise and condemn
human beings in a way that very few Truth students
would dare do. And this is done in total disregard for the
truth of the matter, as we shall show.
Those who have read former brochures of this series
know that I have taken Mr. Ballard's own statements to
prove the falsity of his claims. They were not "self-
created," as he says, nor did they exist in my "imagina
tion." They were down in black and white in his own
books. If they were imaginative, as he says they were,
then it was his imagination and not mine that brought
them into being.
It was Mr. Ballard's imagination, and not mine, which
concocted the story of setting sail on the S.S. MAJESTIC
for India and the Far East on August 28th, as recorded
10
on Page 297 of the "Magic Presence." The fact that the
Cunard-White Star Line (who had charge of the sailings)
wrote me that he did not sail on that day, nor during
that month, is not their imagination nor mine. It is sober
fact. And fiction against fact is hard to explain. Thus it
is with the many other discrepancies considered in Bro
chures No. 1 and No. 2.
Mr. Ballard had just two courses to take in answer to
my brochures and letter to him: (1) To acknowledge and
explain the real truth concerning his experiences and
teachings, or (2) to presume to ignore the evidence pre
sented in these brochures. He has chosen the latter course,
I am sorry to say; and therefore it becomes necessary to
heap up so many facts in this and forthcoming brochures
that it will give, if possible, overwhelming proof to those
of his followers who still have their devoted heads in the
unstable sands of illusion and personality worship. God
help him, and them, to understand that Truth is still
the most prized possession of mankind, and nothing that
is not based on Truth can survive.
II
WHO CREATED THE ANIMALS?
One of the most fantastic doctrines of the Ballards is
that animals are creations, not of God, but of Black
Magicians.
"Saint Germain" himself is authority for this. On
Page 22, in the October, 1936 issue of their official maga
zine, "The Voice of the I AM," he says:
"The last of the powerful black magicians have
been seized, bound and taken from the activity
of the earth forever . . .
With the seizing and binding of those two
powerful black magicians, the animal forms of
earth will withdraw ...
While it may hurt some, the Mighty Truth
is,
that animal forms were created in the beginning,
by
these powerful black magicians."
Now
if
this
is
true,
it
is
strange that Mr. Ballard's
first book, "Unveiled Mysteries," should have discussed
so freely these creations of evil. Mr. Ballard's friend, the
panther, was thought so much of by "Saint Germain" in
that book that he permitted
it
to guard the body of Mr.
Ballard while the latter was on
a
soul flight. And Mr.
Ballard, referring to this animal, said on page 31 of that
book.*
"This beautiful animal was
a
part of God's
Life ..."
*The dates, quotations, and page numbers are taken from the first editions of the
Ballard books. Later editions may or may not have page numbers corresponding
with these quotations.
The italicized and bold-face type
in
the quotations are our own, as also the use
of small capitals in the presentment of contrasting passages.
12
This statement does not fit in with "Saint Germain's"
idea that it was the Black Magician's life that created
it,
nor does this same animal's supreme sacrifice
in
saving
Mr. Ballard's life from the attack of the "mountain lion"
fit
in
with the notion that
it
was an evil creation.
The whole thing
is
a
hopeless contradiction. All this
talk about the love and devotion of
a
panther friend who
became Mr. Ballard's faithful companion, and then to be
told that
it
was
a
creation of evil!
In "Unveiled Mysteries," pages 232-33, the story
is
told by Mr. Ballard of this same panther saving his life
when
it
"locked
in
mortal combat" with
a
"mountain lion"
who had leaped at Mr. Ballard, and they "screamed,
rolled, tore, and clawed each other" until both were killed.
It may or may not be good fiction,
in
accordance with
one's idea about such matters, but that
it
IS fiction
is
proved by the fact that this "considerably heavier moun
tain lion" and "panther" are one and the same kind
of
animal in that part of the country, only known by differ
ent names. The Encyclopaedia Britannica says so, as do
other authors who know their North American animals,
and further, that
it
"rarely attacks man."
But let us go on to further statements about animals
in
general. Mrs. Ballard has told us many times from the
platform that:
"Animals are the condensation
of
evil of this earth
of the feelings and thoughts of the past."
I
took this down as she spoke, and
I
am sure
it
is
correctly quoted. "Saint Germain" says:
"Animals were not in existence upon this planet
during the first two Golden Ages . . . The first
13
creation described in Genesis, referred to these
two Golden Ages and they were described as
'very good'." (Page 145, "Magic Presence.")
Now this "first creation" story, referred to above,
is very definitely given in the Bible. There it says that
animals WERE in existence at that time, despite what
"Saint Germain" allegedly says, with an idea of proving
that the Bible agrees with him. It doesn't at all, for:
". . . God said, Let the earth bring forth living
creatures after their kind, cattle, and creeping
things, and beasts of the earth after their kind:
and it was so . . . and God saw that it was GOOD."
(Genesis 1:24-25.)
Evidently "Saint Germain of the Ballards" did not
know that in this "first creation" story in Genesis
there was a verse describing how GOD created the animals.
Man himself, according to this Bible story, was not created
until after the animals were created. How, then, could
man create animals when he himself had not been created?
Also the Bible infers in no way that the animals crea
tion was "evil." On the contrary it says: "God saw that
it was good." "Saint Germain" erroneously says above
that the "two Golden Ages" were described as "very
good," whereas the Bible specifically says that it was the
animal creation that was "very good." No really ascended
Master could make such a serious mistake in quoting
from a sacred book; neither would he change the meaning
around to suit his purposes.
Inasmuch as we feel that our animal friends have been
done a grave injustice, we wish to synthesize here the
"occult" and "Biblical" teachings concerning the Four
14
Kingdoms of Nature, in an endeavor to straighten out
these misconceptions regarding animals.
According to the teachings of many different occult
schools there are four separate and distinct creations on
this earth. We list them below:
1. Mineral Kingdom creation
2. Plant Kingdom creation
3. Animal Kingdom creation
4. Human Kingdom creation.
The Bible bears this conception out to the very letter,
as you will find if you read the 1st Chapter of Genesis.
We give it below in tabular form for purposes of com
parison with the above.
Verse 1. "In the beginning God created the heav
ens and the earth ..." (Mineral Kingdom.)
Verse 11. "And God said, Let the earth put forth
grass, herbs yielding seed ..." (Plant King
dom.)
Verse 24. "And God said, Let the earth bring
forth living creatures after their kind, cattle, and
creeping things ..." (Animal Kingdom.)
Verse 26. "And God said, Let us make man in our
image . . . and let them have dominion . . .
over all the earth ..." (Human Kingdom.)
Not only is there agreement here between the "occult"
and "Bible" teachings concerning these four kingdoms of
nature, but it is also in agreement with the modern scien
tific hypothesis of evolution, which conceives of graded
steps from the lower creations to the higher. If the animal
kingdom as a link in the evolutionary chain is taken away,
a gap is left which seems impossible to bridge.
15
In the face of all this evidence, both sacred and scien
tific, it is impossible to believe what the Ballards say-
about the animal evolution. They deny the idea of the
Overshadowing Presence of God working through His
third creation, and teach that man's evil thoughts and
feelings have created the faithful dog and the serving
horse. They make spiritual outcasts of the creatures of
the forest and fireside, and deny them any part in the
Great Evolutionary Plan of God. Even their most devout
followers hesitate about accepting it.
If they do accept
it,
then — to be consistent — the
Ballard students would have to stop using milk, butter,
ice cream, and other dairy products. These things are
"evil," having come into being because of the activity of
"Black Magicians" who created the contented cow and
other milk-bearing animals.
And certainly wearing
a
fur around one's neck just
for vanity's sake would be most inconsistent,
if
animals
are creations of Black Magicians.
If the "I AM" students do not accept the animal
creation dictum of "Saint Germain," then they are placed
in
the predicament of questioning the infallibility of an
"Ascended Master," which the students are warned not
to do.
It seems that the only way out
is
for them to
,
do
a
little thinking of their own — in this as well as other
matters.
16
THE BALLARD TABOOS
The Ballards during a comparative short time have
built up a system of taboos second only to the taboos of
some of the lower races of mankind. The student does
not get very far in the work before interdictions begin to
break in on his peace of mind, and he has to take pledges
and what not in order to be permitted to continue in his
"I AM" class work. His own freedom of will is held in
abeyance, and he begins to have his life ruled by the man
dates of others, by a system of "Do's and Don't's."
First of all he has to forswear all other teachings and
books. "/ urge the students everywhere, with all the Love
at my command, to forget everything else you have ever
studied.'' This taboo comes from no less a personage than
Jesus Himself
— so the Ballards inform us. And their
students take a sacred pledge to abide by it. Instead of
reading Jesus' own statements as recorded in the Gospels,
they are just to read the Ballard books!
Particularly is the mark of the taboo placed on astro
logical books. But it is best to burn them all up, to save
them from falling into the hands of the unwary. To be
consistent, the Bible itself — with its many astrological
references — would have to meet this fate.
Certain individuals are to be shunned, and the pledge
is taken "never to have anything to do with mediums and
so-called clairvoyants."
Any use of Tarot cards, numerology, or even the
ordinary "playing cards" for diversion or sociability is
sufficiently evil as to obligate the student to take a solemn
pledge "never to have anything to do with them."
Of course such unhealthful things as alcohol, narcotics,
17
and tobacco are expected to be banned. But we gasp with
astonishment to find that the lowly onion and its vigorous
cousin, the garlic bulb, also falls under prohibition, and
is made part of a sacred pledge:
"I shall not use garlic or onion, knowing that the
Ascended Masters will not come near me if I do"
Imagine it! As though onions could keep the Master
Jesus away when there was some service to perform.
After reading what "Saint Germain" had to say about
physical remedies, I had thought that such things as
onions, garlic, and drugs had no power over the "I AM"
students, much less over an "Ascended Master." I quote
from his own statement:
"... Whatever remedial agent they use, whether
exercise, drugs or anything else, has little effect,
IF ANY, except the quality and power they
have consciously given these agents." (Page 235,
"I AM" Discourses.)
Now if this statement is really true, then onions or
garlic have little effect, IF ANY — except the quality and
power students have consciously given these agents.
Logically then, the proper "I AM" method of contend
ing with this rising evil of garlic and onions would be
NOT to give conscious acceptance to the "quality and
power" of onions and garlic. Instead, the Ballards illog-
ically ban their use — for the reason that "the Ascended
Masters will not come near" if the students use them.
Certainly one would think that with the power that
"Saint Germain" has in tying up black magicians and
leveling mighty temples to the ground by merely concen
trating his mind, and many other wonderful feats of
18
magic, that he would not be particularly inconvenienced
if one of the faithful fell occasionally for a nice onion
sandwich.
Likewise, serums, narcotics, alcohol, meat, tobacco,
excess sugar and salt, and strong tea and coffee are taboo,
despite the inconsistency with the above quotation of
"Saint Germain." The student pledges that he will "never
again use" these things, notwithstanding that in certain
extremities of his life he may beforced to do so. The pledge
makes no provision for the unexpected eventualities of
human existence.
According to Mrs. Ballard's platform statement it
seems that all electrical treatment devices are banned
except the ultra-violet light. One other, of course, is
permitted — the wonderful Electronic Accelerator — but
no human, except Mr. Ballard, has ever said he has sat
in it. All these prohibitions are made despite the fact
that brilliant advances are being made in healing by
means of electricity and light.
It seems also that the time-tested value of exercise is
a needless effort, for there are better and easier ways of
keeping fit. "Saint Germain" says:
"I have in my students, many, many times en
abled them to produce powerful muscles in a
symmetrical, beautiful body without having taken
a single exercise to do it." {Page 66, "I AM
Discourses.")
Instead of old-fashioned methods of reducing, it is
only necessary to pass the hands down over the body with
"deep earnest feeling" and one "will be amazed at the
results." "Saint Germain" says of it that this "is the
greatest reducer in the world." (See Page 233 of the "I
19
AM Discourses.") We hope our obese friends have not
been too greatly disappointed in this method.
In order to become a member of a closed Ballard class
all students, without regard for individual spiritual de
velopment, must take a pledge to use the sex force "solely
for providing a physical vehicle for a brother seeking
physical re-embodiment."
In the early days of their work the Ballards published
instructions from "Saint Germain" as to "the conduct of
study groups." These instructions said:
"The only conditions through which the Ascended
Master, Saint Germain, and we as Messengers,
will work with study groups are as follows:"
The conditions that followed seemed very simple and
fair. They insisted on absolute harmony, meditation upon
the Mighty I AM Presence, and conscious projection of
the Light Rays, and credit and acknowledgment to the
Mighty I AM Presence at all times. There were to be
no large classes (restricted to 21) and there was no inter
ference with the personal lives of students and the taking
of pledges.
But now, only a year later, we find a system of bans
and privileges (all copyrighted by the Saint Germain
Press), which unless obeyed no student can attend the
closed class work. Instead of the beautiful freedom of the
"I AM" there is slavery to personality, and the taking
of pledges that are fearfully and wonderfully made. What
will the end be?
20
THE BAN ON THE COLOR RED
The Ballards instruct their students not to use red
because this color is "never, never, never used by an
Ascended Master." (See Page 4, April, 1936, "Voice of
the I AM.")
Now the vibration which we record as red is part of
God's creation, and has its function in the Divine Plan.
It makes up part of the Great Spectrum of the Universe.
It forms one of the septenary colors of the rainbow. It
has its reflections and overtones in the musical scale. As
such, it cannot be eliminated from the scheme of things.
The fathers of this Nation thought sufficient of it as
to make it part of the flag we love. Our Heavenly Father
uses it profusely in many of His beautiful creations of
Nature. It glows in the sunset, and it reflects in the deep
gorges and canyons of earth. It shines in the heart of the
ruby and reveals itself in the rose. The crimson plumage
of birds and the gaily colored leaves of autumn all help
to make an otherwise drab world beautiful with color.
Everywhere throughout Nature the Divine Artist has
with bold strokes worked the pigment red into His master
pieces, and the earth is more beautiful and glorious be
cause of it.
It is a sacrilege to denounce the God-created ray of
red and to place it under a special taboo. One cannot
annihilate red from the universe, and even the "Ascended
Masters" must make use of it in some degree. The Bal
lard students themselves, in their fetish for the color
violet, cannot escape using it—for is not violet a mix
ture of blue and RED? If God uses red to glorify His
creation, why cannot man learn to make use of it?
21
SACREDNESS OF A PLEDGE
The Ballard students, as we have shown, take solemn
pledges, some of which from the very nature of things
they must break every hour of the day.
I quote from the Ballards' copyrighted "DECREE
FOR THE ASCENSION," a document that is signed
in pen and ink by the students and then burned in a
sacred ceremony to make it more impressive:
"I hereby pledge and decree that I shall never
again recognize or enter into criticism, condem
nation, judgment, or DISCUSSION of the deeds
or words of any Group Leader or student of the
"I, AM" or any other individual or any thing."
In this decree they pledge themselves never to enter
into "discussion" of the "deeds or words" of any body
or any thing. In other words — if my understanding
of the English language does not fail me — the Ballard
students who take this pledge cannot discuss anything
with anybody!
Of course, if they are human beings at all, they cannot
possibly live up to it. They take the pledge merely to
break it. And a pledge
is,
and should be,
a
sacred thing.
I
quote part of the pledge that
is
taken by every
member of
a
closed class:
"I will refuse in the future to listen to any silly
human gossip, CRITICISM, condemnation and
judgment of anything or about anybody."
Now of course no sincere Truth student ever wants
to listen to "silly human gossip," but with respect to this
much maligned thing we call "criticism,"
it
is
a
legitimate
22
faculty of the human mind, which when properly used
will save us many griefs. We should, as a matter of fact,
thank God for the privilege of listening to fair criticism
instead of taking a sacred pledge never to listen to it.
If your best friend came to you in all kindliness and told
you that you were unknowingly doing something that
was wrong, that would certainly be a criticism. But ac
cording to the pledge you would have to walk away from
your friend and not listen to him. We learn more from
fair and just criticism than we do from unintelligent
applause.
There are two kinds of criticism as we all know. I
think a carping, nagging criticism is a real obstacle to
spiritual growth. But a fair-minded, critical survey of the
right and wrong of a thing is merely the exercise of our
God-given right of discrimination. And unless we use
it,
we are lost. There are too many who do not want any
analysis or criticism of their acts and teachings. The true
spiritual teacher, however, seeks to arouse within his
students a fair-minded and reasonable criticism of what
is
given them.
Those who demand pledges from students not to crit
icise are usually those who give themselves the utmost
license to criticise. We see
it
all through the Ballard
books and platform utterances. They criticise and con
demn astrology — and most of the other 'ologies. They
hold
a
judgment for other schools of thought, inasmuch as
they say they are the only ones who are receiving "As
cended Master" teachings. They write personal letters
to former students judging and condemning them because
they no longer see with the Ballard eyes, and they proph
esy dire happenings for them. They send forth terrific
23
decrees, and project the "Blue Lightning" into "any
activity that seeks to interfere with the success of the
'I AM' work," and they blast the "Communistic activi
ties, etc.," their cause and effect, from the face of the
earth forever.
Mr. Ballard in his San Francisco address made the
following decree:
"Mighty I AM Presence!" Seize! bind those two
black magicians in Europe THIS HOUR! Take
them! hold them bound that their influence touch
Europe or the world no more . . .
Seize their emissaries! seize all who do not serve
the Light! bind them and take them away from
humanity, the earth and its atmosphere. You
wretched creatures, who have sought to interfere
with the Light and Its Expansion — the Light of
the 'Mighty I AM Presence,' YOUR DAY IS
DONE TODAY." [Their capitals.]
(Page 19, October issue "Voice of the I AM.")
That is criticism, condemnation, and judgment to the
'nth degree, and the exercise of prerogatives that only
the greatest Beings in the universe would dare or have
any right to use. The Ballards require their students to
take a sacred pledge never even to use their critical faculty
to sanely judge a teaching or proposition; BUT for them
selves they reserve and exercise every right to criticise and
condemn anything and everything under the sun they
choose!
24
FREEDOM OF WILL OF THE INDIVIDUAL
It would be enlightening to the student to look up the
effect that taboos have had upon the races of mankind,
for both good and ill. Webster gives the following defini
tion:
"The taboo is a sacred interdiction laid upon the
use of certain things or words or the performance
of certain actions. The taboo is commonly im
posed by chiefs or priests . . . The use of taboos
is found among most races of low culture."
Taboos against certain harmful things have no doubt
served to keep the human race in line. But along with
this practise of the taboo has come the selfish use of it
by priest and king to control for their own ends the
people they ruled. It operated through fear. Frequently
the taboos were utter nonsense, made without regard for
the spiritual and material interests of the people. Because
of widespread superstition and credulity, taboos had a
terrific power to enslave, which the spiritual and material
rulers of those days well knew. And so the masses were
victimized by a system of bans and privileges, which
continues in some degree even to this day.
In this really more enlightened age, however, the taboo
operates in a much less crudely superstitious form than
of old. It is found in the creeds, dogmas, and doctrines of
all civilized races, and no doubt for a long time to come
these crystallized outer forms of conduct and belief will
necessarily have to play their part for good and ill. To
the extent that a man is able to rule himself, and obey
the Golden Rule, will these outer forms of restraint and
guidance be unnecessary.
25
The most valuable possession of man is his freedom
of will, and it is profoundly respected by all truly great
teachers. Others may direct him up to a certain point, but
there will come a time in his spiritual evolution when the
individual himself through his own Divine Wisdom must
decide what is right and what is wrong for him. No
external system of taboos can ever be of real, permanent
spiritual service to him. On the contrary such things
may well make for slavery to personalities, creeds, and
doctrines, which have dominated the human race for eons
of time and held it back enormously in evolution.
26
THE ENTITY DECREES OF THE BALLARDS
A large part of the time of the Ballard students is
taken up in concentrating upon the vicious entities of the
astral world and annihilating them from the face of the
earth.
In the August, 1936 issue of the "Voice of the I AM"
a long article is devoted to entities that hang around in
the earth's atmosphere and in people's auras. It begins
with this statement:
"The Ascended Masters on July 4th, 1936 gave
their Third Specific Decree for the Complete
Freedom of mankind and the earth . . . Before
It no discord nor sinister activity can longer exist."
(Page 14.)
Despite the fact that this decree is supposed to have
been given by the Ascended Masters and does not there
fore rightfully belong to any human being or organization,
the Ballards have had it copyrighted in their own name.
It seems they were able to tune in on this cosmic utterance
—and right away they proceeded to have it copyrighted! How
can the cosmic fiats of a God be copyrighted ? They belong
to no human individual, but to the universe. Does not
the copyright suggest that it might well be a Ballard
creation? Anyway, I quote this "Mighty Decree," in
part, as follows:
"Send Legions of Thy Angel Devas of the Blue
Lightning of Divine Love to seize, bind and re
move from within and around me and my world
all entities — carnate and discarnate forever; if
they be of human creation, annihilate them,
their cause and effect this instant; if they be dis-
27
carnate, take them out of the atmosphere of earth
and to the feet of the Ascended Masters; . . .
keep them bound until they willingly and gladly
serve the 'Mighty I AM Presence'."
Considering the all-powerful influence of the Ascended
Host and the Ballards' definite statement that "before
this MIG HTY DECREE no discord nor sinister activity can
longer exist" we would naturally expect that these enti
ties would soon be non-existent, if not instantly anni
hilated, for they end this copyrighted decree by saying:
"IT IS DONE THIS INSTANT!"
But it seems that this MIGHTY (?) DECREE has
not been that effective, nor were the "carnate entities"
annihilated INSTANTLY. The Ballards still have them
very much on their hands, and they stress the necessity
of the STUDENTS issuing this same Decree "at least
three times daily" to help the "Ascended Masters." And
each month since that "Mighty Decree" was issued (July,
1936) the tens of thousands of Ballard students have been
daily issuing decrees to "seize, bind, remove, and hold
inactive all entities — carnate and discarnate." And new
"entity decrees" with different wordings are being made
from time to time, as a perusal of their official magazine
will reveal.
In their extremity they even call upon the youth of
America to help them in making these "entity decrees."
They say:
"Beloved Young America! we call upon you to
help give a service to all mankind that has never
been given before on earth in any age. If you
will join us in sending forth the following De
crees . . . (Page 36, October, 1936 "Voice of the
I AM.")
28
Then follow two "entity decrees," only one of which
I shall take space to quote:
"Seize, bind and annihilate all fear entities within
and around every human being, the earth and
its atmosphere; BLAST their cause and effect from
existence this instant ..." (Page 36, October,
1936 "Voice of the I AM.")
Imagine it! Concentrating the susceptible minds of
the youth of America on "fear entities" and what not —
making them think they are doing a service to mankind!
No words are adequate to express the wrong they are
doing these young people.
And even for the grown-ups it is certainly not the
thing to go around thinking about vicious entities three
or more times a day. I do not deny that there are these
entities, any more than I deny that there are vermin in
the world. But you know if you begin to imagine that
there is a horrible, crawly insect down your collar, it isn't
long before you feel it actually there. And if you go
around looking for entities, it isn't long before you have
a suspicion that they are around your best friend, and
even imagine them around yourself.
Those who have been unfortunate enough negatively
to open up their psychic centers are likely to have the
lower astral world with its host of entities crowd in upon
their vision so much that it is difficult to keep them out.
They become "entity conscious," and fear comes upon
them. They begin to devise ways and means of getting
rid of these entities. But to suggest these things to normal
people and have them go around decreeing about entities
they cannot see, and getting into the vicious vortex of
29
the entity thought, is not a part of legitimate spiritual
training.
It is far wiser for the Ballard student to believe that
the entity matter is being taken care of by the Great
Ones who have charge of human evolution, and to stop
creating additional entities through fear. It stands to
reason that if the Ascended Masters' MIGHTY Decree
has not been able to contend with the situation, certainly
the student's little decree will not. Such decrees merely
direct his forces along negative channels. They habituate
him in looking for and imagining evil entities when he
should be positively looking out upon a wonderful world
seeking the Good, the True, and the Beautiful.
It is known and recognized among deep occult students
that actual cases of obsession and partial spirit control
are hard to handle by even the most advanced occult
investigator. It is said that even the Masters of Wisdom
exercise the greatest caution in these matters. If this is
true, then the ordinary student has no business using his
own forces ignorantly to free another person's psychic
world or to make demands that somebody else do it. That
is the work of the occult specialist, one who knows what
he is doing. The average student has no more right to
tackle a case of obsession and decree and demand that
the entity leave than he has in handling a case of smallpox.
As an antidote for a bad case of entity-//?;, I would
suggest that the Ballard student build up in his mind an
ever-present consciousness of the Christ Spirit, feel him
self bathed within and without in this downpour of Uni
versal Energy, Power, Wisdom, and Love. Then no
entity — carnate or incarnate — can gain access to his
being, and he simply forgets the whole subject of entities.
30
BLASTING WITH THE "BLUE LIGHTNING"
The projection of what the Ballards call the "Blue
Lightning" is said by them to be the most powerful use
of the "Rays." We quote excerpts from their "Outline
of an 'I AM' Study Group":
"You can use this in any vicious activity. Never
do it with a feeling of irritation . . . it always
consumes the discord . . . Do not disclose this to
anyone unless they are very sincere in the Serv
ice of the Light."
This latter warning about the danger of disclosing the
"Blue Lightning" to any but the sincere student is point
less when it is recalled that this Blue Ray instruction was
given promiscuously to many thousands of a mixed audi
ence at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles. Also the
definite use of it has been taught many times in their
official magazine, which is found in public book stores
and libraries. They admit that it is dangerous to use, and
yet they make it easily possible for anyone — whether sin
cere or not — to use it.
It is to be used, as they say, primarily for the destruc
tion of evil — "to blast its cause and effect from the face
of the earth forever."
Now in order properly to consider this doctrine of the
"Blue Lightning," it is well to consider for a moment this
thing we call "evil." We live in a dualistic world and
operate by means of an intelligence that is constantly
comparing one thing with another, saying, this is "good,"
that is "bad," and so on. We find, however, from sad
experience that we haven't the wisdom at all times to
judge properly what is good and what is evil. Sometimes
31
we find to our dismay that what we thought was "evil,"
and had condemned, we find later to be good.
To "BLAST," then, from the face of the earth a sup
posed "evil" when in reality it was "good" is simply a
method of becoming spiritually bankrupt. It is like hang
ing an innocent man — there is no bringing him back.
But let us overlook for the moment this human un
certainty of really knowing at all times what is good and
what is bad, and imagine that we know definitely that
a thing is evil and should be destroyed. The question
is then: "Shall we use the 'Blue Lightning' on it?"
Well, if we are absolutely convinced that something
has got to be destroyed, we would naturally want to make
certain of the efficacy of our weapon. According to the
Ballards, the "Blue Lightning" does seem to be the most
effective weapon we have, for, they say: "It always con
sumes the discord." That little statement means a hundred
per cent efficiency, and we could hardly expect that with
any other method.
So we start out with the wielding of the "Blue Light
ning," first in trepidation because of the power we are told
is in it. We fire it out with the greatest intensity we have,
and usually there are hundreds of others with us doing
the same thing. Like the hunter we can hardly wait to see
what happens after the shot is fired. But when the smoke
clears away we find nothing very much has happened
after all. Somehow the target has been missed, and the
evil in the world still continues. Then we settle down with
the realization that it is going to take time to accomplish
this "annihilating of evil," or perhaps we will have to
wait until the result of our work "precipitates on the
material plane of being." Anyhow, we like to continue
32
this "blasting with the Blue Lightning" because it does
arouse us emotionally, and we do want to feel we are of
"real service" in helping to save our blessed America and
the World from the "claw of the sinister force" — and
perhaps we feel called upon to use it on some of the lesser
"evil" in our own personal environment. Usually, how
ever, with the same deferred result.
Now, thank God! the "Blue Lightning" hasn't the
effect the Ballards say it has. Poison Gas and Cosmic
Death Rays wouldn't be in
it,
for each of us would have
an annihilating mechanism
in
our own craniums capable
of being used at any time that we had the will and desire
to use it. The Great Ones have seen to
it
that no such
power has come into our use. The effect of
it
is
mostly
on the individual that sends
it
out, and not on its recip
ient. But, of course,
if
somebody goes around thinking
that someone
is
directing the "Blue Lightning" at him,
and believes that
it
has real power to harm, then he
becomes affected by his own emotional state.
At every class of the Ballards throughout the Nation
they project the "Biue Lightning" at "any activity that
seeks to interfere with the success
of
the 'I AM' work."
Now these brochures, and myself as creator of them, come
under this barrage fire of "Blue Lightning," for these
publications do definitely "interfere with the success" of
the Ballard brand of the "I AM" work, inasmuch as they
seek sincerely and truthfully to reveal certain of the falla
cies and dangers of that work. If that fire were effective,
then the so-called "discord and sinister force" in me would
have long since been consumed and
I
could not continue
to use this "evil" force to reveal the Ballard fallacies.
I
say this for the encouragement of those who have
33
been so deeply involved in the Ballard teachings that
they really fear to withdraw, although they would like
to. They feel that their withdrawal would be construed
as a definite interference with the success of the "I AM"
work, and they would be in danger of having this "Blue
Lightning" directed at them. My friends, you are only
subject to the reactions of your own fear in this, and it
being your own creation you can absolutely rule it out.
Realize how powerless this "Blue Lightning" is even to
destroy the evil in the world, much less the Good in you,
which influences you to face the Light of Truth, instead
of continuing with practices that will bring grief and suf
fering, and loss of real Christ-like spirituality.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF DESTRUCTION
It should require but very little spiritual perception
to realize that the use of the "Blue Lightning" is a de
structive, negative process. The person who uses it is
seeking to destroy something, or demanding or decreeing
that another individual destroy it. We are not now con
sidering whether this thing which is to be destroyed is
good or bad. The point is that the student is seeking to
DESTROY, to annihilate from the face of the earth some
thing that is in God's universe, and he or she is using a
spiritual or mental power to do it.
There is a psychology about this desire to destroy
which is important for all metaphysical students to un
derstand. In order to bring it home to the student more
forcefully, I shall use the second person and speak directly
to you as if I were speaking to you personally and as if
you had been in the habit of using this "Blue Lightning,"
which you may or may not have.
34
Now, you know in your work in class that you were
told to decree with all the intensity of your being that
this "Blue Lightning" be sent to its objective. You com
manded the "Angel Devas" and your own "Mighty I AM
Presence" to do this work for you, as you were told it was
dangerous to draw the ray through your own body. But
you should remember, nevertheless, that you are the di
recting force back of it. It is you who are consciously
directing and demanding that this force be sent out, and
logically, then, you become karmically responsible for any
effect that it might have.
You also must know that in order to participate power
fully in this act of projecting the "Blue Lightning" you
have to arouse within yourself corresponding qualities of
emotion. You have to be dead in earnest about it. You
have to imagine this destructive Blue Ray sweeping irre-
sistably like lightning to its goal, to destroy the "fear
entity" or any other evil thing or "human creation"
against which it is directed.
Notice particularly that when you are in this state of
mind — wielding the "Blue Lightning of Destruction" —
you cannot at the same time hold the thought of Love,
or the other Christ-like emotions. Try
it,
and see for
yourself. Love cannot operate that way.
Individuals, therefore, who, indeed with the very best
of intentions, look out upon the world and see so much
that seems irreconcilably evil, may have their feelings
aroused sufficiently as to want to use their mental and
spiritual powers to destroy such evil, or to command that
God sweep His lightning down upon it. But do you not
see that when these people do this, they
in
reality become
part
of
the destructive force that they are directing? They
35
are swept into the vortex of the "evil human creation"
that has aroused in them this destructive emotional re
action.
The Ballards warn against this, it is true, and say:
"never do it with a feeling of irritation." But that is like
telling someone to put his hand in fire and not get burned,
or to jump into the water and not get wet. The psycho
logical law is that when one is aroused emotionally enough
to want to destroy something — it matters not what —
all his forces are aroused to that end. At the highest there
may be "righteous indignation," but when the thought
and feeling of destruction get under way, anything might
enter the person's aura to help out in the process of
destruction, and it would be far more than "irritation"
at that. If one jumps into the whirling astral vortex of
destruction, he is going to get "wet." Of that there is
no doubt, despite the Ballard admonition not to.
Fortunately, however, much of the Ballard decreeing
lacks power, simply for the reason that the average human
mortal has little mental and emotional control, lacking
one-pointedness. So don't worry about this if you have
practised it. It is like the prayers of some religious sects
— more repetition than power. The "Blue Lightning"
does not produce the powerful results claimed for
it,
but
nevertheless
it
is
a
bad psychological practise and ties the
individual up with astral forces and entities which are akin
to the destructive wave-lengths of life. It
is
far better to
tune in to cosmic vibrations of Love, and send out
a
positive affirmation, such as "Peace to all beings."
36
THE CATASTROPHE COMPLEX
The average "one-hundred per cent" Ballard student
is certain that a major cataclysmic activity is going to
take place in America. This idea has been built up by
statement after statement in the Ballard books, their
magazines, their decrees, and their public utterances.
Mr. Ballard in viewing the scenes of the future at the
Royal Teton, which he said affected the "whole earth,"
wrote back in 1930 that:
"They showed many changes to come in the
surface of the land itself." (Page 99, "Unveiled
Mysteries.")
On another visit to the Royal Teton during 1930 he
referred to changes along the Pacific Coast as follows:
"To the west, we could see the Sierra and Cas
cade mountains and still farther on the Coast
Range, whose shore line is all to be changed."
(Page 113, "Unveiled Mysteries.")
Again on Page 253 of this same book, he says, regard
ing the work of the Kumaras who are now becoming active,
that:
"Just preceding each of these Great Outpourings
extraordinary physical disturbances occur
>»
Then on the next page, referring again to "cataclys
mic action," and its cause, he says:
"We are approaching another such period ..."
Throughout the discourses of "Saint Germain" there
are a number of statements regarding impending physical
changes. In the one dated November 29th, 1934, he says:
37
"... Already great protection has been
given to the eastern coast from Philadelphia
to Maine. If this protection had not been given,
some ofyour cities would have been in ruins today."
(Page 337, "I AM Discourses.")
In the February, 1936 issue of the "Voice of the I
AM" there is printed "SAINT GERMAIN'S NEW
YEAR'S DAY DISCOURSE," which the Ballards claim
was dictated to them on January 1st, 1936. In this
discourse he says that the work of Cyclopea and the call
of the "I AM" students "have rendered tremendous serv
ice."
"... It has prevented a tidal wave striking
the western coast, which was thought would
have come into action the SECOND OF JAN
UARY, 1936." (Page 12.)
Now observe that "Saint Germain" spoke these words
to the Ballards on NEW YEAR'S DAY, i. e., January
FIRST. And yet he rejoices on that day about a tidal
wave that had already been prevented from occurring on
January SECOND — a day that had not even arrived when
he spoke those words!
The obvious conclusion is that this so-called "dis
course" was WRITTEN by the Ballards on a day after
January 1st with the idea of showing that the students
by their faithful following of the Ballard teachings had
really prevented a great cataclysm on the Pacific Coast,
but they made the damaging mistake of dating the tidal
wave as of January 2nd and the "discourse" as of January
1st. If the tidal wave had been staged for January 1st,
then "Saint Germain" on January 2nd could have logically
38
rejoiced about preventing it; but the other way around
is a ridiculous and impossible situation.
But let us go on and see how month after month the
Ballards build up the idea of impending catastrophes.
In the March, 1936 issue of the "Voice of the I AM"
they say that the work of the I AM Study Groups must be
carried on to help "Saint Germain" to protect America.
I quote as follows:
"... The assistance must be given, if America
is to have protection from the vortex of discord
across the Atlantic and from cataclysmic disturb
ances." (Page 29.)
They say that the attention must be held unwaver
ingly on the reading of the Ballard books, and that "this
is Jesus' own request because the need of the present hour
is so urgent."
In the June, 1936 issue of the "Voice of the I AM,"
Page 14, they issue a "definite warning":
"... Only that which is True, Pure, Perfect
and of the Light . . . can have protection,
guidance and supply over the period of change."
On Page 15, they say this is "the eleventh hour of its
greatest struggle." And on Page 16, under the heading of
"AMERICA'S PROTECTION," they say:
"The first of this coming July is a time of very
great importance to America ..."
Then on Page 17 they urge the students "to charge all
the energy in the gas belts within the earth," and they
say that this "I AM" instruction is . . .
"... focusing Mighty Pillars of Light through-
39
out America, to be maintained and expanded as
sanctuaries of protection and supply ..."
All these things, they insist, are vitally needed "when
world changes occur."
In the July issue there is still more about cataclysms,
•
prophecies, and warnings — and this from "Saint Ger
main" himself. He says:
"My personal opinion is that a cataclysm, which
is inevitable, is preferable to the coming forth into
physical action of the so-called Armageddon
..." (Page 9.)
Then in the August issue there is still very much more
about cataclysmic activities. The Ballards print "SAINT
GERMAIN'S SEPTEMBER 1ST, 1932 DISCOURSE,"
in which he says:
"The great prophecies of the centuries, in fact
the end of the prophecies and their fulfilment is
at hand." (Page 2.)
In this discourse of 1932 "Saint Germain" tells about
the stupendous changes that will take place within a very
few years. Regarding the impending upheaval, he says:
"The period of the struggle of creation, in the
throes of this new birth, will be swift and to
some terrible in its mighty manifestation ..."
(Page 2.)
We list below some of the other things that "Saint
Germain" in this discourse said would soon take place:
1. Weeds and vermin will be no more.
2. Flowers will be ever blooming.
3. No longer the rattle of the lawn mower.
40
4. Heaven will be practically on earth.
5. The axis of the earth will be changed.
6. The Kumaras will walk and talk with students.
And now most striking of all is the news when this
mixture of good and bad things will occur. In this there
is no hedging — no "if" — as in some prophecies. "Saint
Germain" says very definitely on page 9 of this 1932
discourse, that:
"THE CHANGES REFERRED TO ABOVE
WILL COME WITHIN THE NEXT TEN
YEARS."*
Think of it! By 1942 all these things mentioned in
this discourse are going to happen. And then referring
again to this much talked of cataclysm he says:
"This present coming cataclysm will end the
cataclysmic periods of the earth." (Page 9.)
We are now at the beginning of the year 1937. Already
nearly half of this ten-year period has come and gone —
and yet not a single one of the above prophecies has so far
come to pass!
In this short remaining period of a little over five years
think what must take place — if we believe in the infalli
bility of "Saint Germain." Let us repeat a few of the
impending events:
The Pacific Coast shore line is all to be changed and
there will be extraordinary physical disturbances upon
the earth. So far it has been possible to save the Eastern
*Note particularly that "Saint Germain" uses the phrase — "the changes referred
to above." Now if he had actually been DICTATING this discourse, he would have
said — "the changes I have just referred to."
Does this not show that this so-called "discourse" was WRITTEN instead of
dictated? And by whom?
41
Coast from ruins, and the Pacific Coast from a great tidal
wave. But the outcome is still uncertain, for the Ballards
still warn their students about that threatening cataclysm,
which "Saint Germain" says is inevitable.
Then the axis of the earth has to be changed, to say
nothing of the possibility of the coming forth into physical
action of the so-called Armageddon.
There is also the menace of Communism, sinister
forces, and black magicians, which has necessitated the
"Messengers" traveling to various points to draw pro
tective "Pillars of Light." We even observe in the Octo
ber, 1936 issue of the "Voice of the I AM" that in "Saint
Germain's HAWAIIAN ISLANDS DISCOURSE" (given
to the Ballards at their hotel room in Honolulu on August
2, 1936), he says:
"We brought the Messengers here at this time,
and are endeavoring to release a sufficient Power
of Divine Love, in order to change the course and
currents of these gas-belts." (Page 4.)
And in the next paragraph "Saint Germain" reveals
to us that:
"It might yet be necessary for the Messengers to
go to the Island of Suva,* to draw the Pillar of
Light there to complete the rendering of this
service." (Page 4.)
Evidently the decrees of two hundred thousand stu
dents and over two hundred "Ascended Masters," to say
nothing of the decrees of "Angel Devas" and the Mighty
Hosts of Creation, have NOT been effective in two years
time — so now it is necessary for the two and only human
*The Island of Suva is one of the Fiji Islands in the South Pacific Ocean — a long
ways from home.
42
Messengers to go personally to these places and really
finish it off!
"Saint Germain" in the next paragraph exclaims about
this:
"How great, how mighty ... is the service
being rendered by the Messengers." (Page 4.)
And there it is! I cannot think of anything that has
been missed — cataclysms, tidal waves, gas-belt explo
sions, Communism, black magicians, sinister forces —
with the "Messengers" aeroplaning and steamboating
around the country drawing protective "Pillars of Light,"
and two hundred thousand students issuing forth decrees
to stave off a cataclysm which "Saint Germain" says is
"inevitable" and even necessary to "cleanse" the earth
and atmosphere and "bring humanity back to the Original
Purity of Life." (See Page 254, "Unveiled Mysteries.")
It is a perfect picture of the cataclysmic jitters.
43
UNFULFILLED PREDICTIONS AND PROMISES
Just preceding last July there was much concern
among the Ballard students over the "Gas Belts." They
were urged to do special work upon them, and there would
be focused "Mighty Pillars of Light" as "sanctuaries of
protection and supply," so that the Ballard students could
be "consciously moved" into "localities where the pro
tective Power is and will be anchored." (See Page 17,
June, 1936 "Voice of the I AM.") And so the word went
out to make a maximum effort before July 1st. But this
date came and went — and nothing happened.
Then there was concern about the Pyramid date of
September 16th. This date also came and went, and
nothing happened.
And so it has always been among the Ballard students.
Promises on one hand, warnings on the other — but
"nothing ever happens."
Of course, it is claimed that "Saint Germain and his
family" have prevented these gas belts and other terrible
things from becoming active. Well, then, if they have
such power to prevent the bad things from happening, why
don't they use their power to bring about the good things
they really want to happen? Why don't they fulfill some
of their promises of Ascensions, Precipitations, Tangible
Ascended Masters, and the other transcendental things
they have been speaking and writing so confidently about
for six long years? If their decrees can check a huge tidal
wave and keep the gas belts from blowing up the Pacific
Coast, surely they can demonstrate at least one bona fide
ascension among two hundred thousand students, or one
tangible "Ascended Master," and perhaps even a "pre
cipitated dinner."
44
GOD IS STILL IN HIS HEAVENS
I do not doubt in the least the probability that catas
trophes have been prevented by the really GREAT ONES
who are in charge of earth's evolution. I have the faith
of the Psalmist in this, knowing that God's protective .
Hand is ever held over His creation. But who am I to
demand that THIS or THAT be done, or that the energy
of the gas belts be changed into GOLD as the Ballard
students have lately been decreeing? (See Page 40, No
vember issue "Voice of the I AM.")
Neither do I deny that certain changes to continents
and even to the axis of the earth may occur sometime
during the long course of earth's evolution. But I do
question this thing of injecting fear thoughts into the
minds of hundreds of thousands of people regarding calam
ities which nobody seems to know very much about. If
some changes are inevitable, then it is foolish to try to
prevent them. If they are not inevitable, I believe that
urging a lot of human beings to think and concentrate on
gas belts, and arousing subconsciously their primordial
fears concerning these things, is not going to keep them
from coming about. On the contrary, these fear thoughts
(which may lie deeply below the waking consciousness)
may indeed, as some students say, help to bring the
catastrophe about. Recall what happened to poor old
Job, when, too late, he lamented:
"The thing which Ifear cometh upon me."
Who really knows what is going to happen anyhow?
There have been in the past prophecies without number
which have not materialized. The early Christian, Paul,
had a name for them. He said they would fail, and they
45
have. The Law of Averages keeps them all from failing,
and so there is always hope for both the amateur and
professional prophesier of dire happenings. Those who
really know are not disturbing the public peace and con
fidence by sensational predictions.
Is there any real reason to believe that the Ballards
know what is coming? Their predictions and promises
so far about Ascended Masters appearing in the flesh,
precipitated dinners, Ascensions, and other transcendental
happenings have not materialized, and they have been
making these promises for six years. They cannot as yet
produce one individual who has done the things recorded
in "Unveiled Mysteries" and the "Magic Presence." Mr.
Ballard says he has, but he has offered not a single proof
of his abilities. The Ballards point to their large following
as proof, but that is no proof. It merely demonstrates
that Barnum was right. However, he was merely a circus
man, and knew nothing about the possibilities of the
psychic racket. In the light of what is happening today,
Barnum must be considered a conservative.
Friends, get out of the catastrophe complex if you are
in it. Have faith in God and in His Divine Messengers
who control this mighty solar system and its little earth.
Sing with the Psalmist:
"The heavens declare the glory of God;
And the firmament showeth His handiwork."
Look out upon the brilliancy of the heavens on a
star-lit night. Do you find any major catastrophies there?
For countless eons those mighty suns have been set in
the firmament of heaven. Narrow your vision to grand
old Jupiter up there so high, and beautiful Venus drawing
near to the source of her life in the solar radiance that
46
has descended below the horizon. Although hidden from
view we know that the Source of our own life will not
fail us, and in the morning the tinted heavens will light
with His glory.
And then look out upon this land of ours and sense
the wisdom of a loving Father who has given us all of
earth's treasures in such abundance. Is He not still at
the helm of things? — not really, you know, dependent
upon our little minds and wills to issue forth decrees that
seem so big, demanding that He do certain things for
us. Does a parent give the child the moon when it calls
for it? Neither does God, the source of our being, or His
Messengers before His Mighty Throne, give to us the
things we think we should have.
If Mother Earth needs to go through a little period of
growth and development, and here and there a continental
birth or death takes place — as in Atlantis or Lemuria of
old — let us accept it and know that a new and greater
Order of life will emerge, because "Onward, Upward,
Forever!" is the battle cry of the Spirit. And we are that
Spirit. There is no death!
"Therefore will we not fear,
Though the earth do change,
And though the mountains be shaken
Into the heart of the seas"
— Psalms, 46:2.
47
THE FORTHCOMING PUBLICATION
Brochure No. 4 of this series will soon be ready.
It will present documentary evidence showing unmis
takably that the Ballard writings have been extracted
in the main from the writings of other human beings,
and have not come to them, as alleged, from the
"Ascended Masters."
The evidence to be presented, therefore, will neces
sarily strike at the very foundation of the Ballard
teachings. For if their teachings are not from the "As
cended Masters," as they boldly claim they are, then
the whole gigantic structure of Ballardism falls, and
there is nothing left but a mass of tangled debris. The
real Masters of Wisdom, from the very nature of things,
could have had absolutely nothing whatever to do
with it.
48
AN ANALYSIS
By
Dr. GERALD B. BRYAN
D C.
BRIJI HLIU No. 3
