{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__bryan___the_source_of_the_ballard_writings.pdf","mytitle":"The Source Of The Ballard Writings","mylang":"de"}
THE SOURCE
of the
BALLARD WRITINGS
BROCHURE No. 4
First Edition
Copyright, 1937
Gerald B. Bryan, D.C.
FORMER PUBLICATIONS
Brochure No. 1, "The I AM Experiences of Mr. G. W.
Ballard," shows conclusively how dates and subject mat
ter in the Ballard books disprove these experiences.
Brochure No. 2, "The I AM Teachings of Mr. G. W.
Ballard," indicates how widely the Ballard teachings are
at variance with the Christ teachings.
Brochure No. 3, "The I AM Doctrines of Mr. G. W.
Ballard," a critical analysis of Ballardism —its "Blue
Lightning,".cataclysrns,. entities, and taboos.
The pTice.-ia;3^e\«2ch, .postage 4c. Order from:
DR. GERALD B. BRYAN
10952 Weyburn Ave.,
Los Angeles, California
TABLE OF CONTENTS
FOREWORD 5
A STRIKING PARALLEL 6
MEETING THE MASTER 7
THE GRIZZLY BEAR AND PANTHER STORES . . 9
THE OPENING OF THE TEMPLE DOORS ... 13
WITHIN THE MOUNT SHASTA AND TETON
RETREATS 14
THE "TWIN RAYS" OF PHYLOS 17
"GOLDEN AGES" AND OTHER SIMILITUDES . . 18
THE "LADY MASTER NADA" SINGING INCIDENT . 19
IS THIS THE GENESIS OF THE BALLARD
SAINT GERMAIN? 21
THE THRILLING ADVENTURES IN THE
"MAGIC PRESENCE" 23
MR. BALLARD'S TRIP TO THE FAR EAST ... 25
THE SPAULDING AND BALLARD PARALLELS . . 27
TALES OF THE GOBI AND SAHARA DESERTS . . 28
THE SPAULDING AND BALLARD "ASCENSION"
STORIES 30
THE "I AM" AND THE "DAZZLING LIGHT RAYS" . 31
THE RAYBORN FICTION TALES 33
SECRET LABORATORIES IN CAVES 34
"THE BROTHERS OF THE GOLDEN ROBE" ... 35
THE "ARABIAN NIGHTS" IDEA 37
NEOPHYTES BEFORE THE TEMPLE OF
INITIATION 39
THE THREE CRYSTAL CASKETS AT THE
ROYAL TETON 40
THE TRIP TO EUROPE AND THE EAST .... 42
THE SANCTUARY OF FLAME PARALLEL ... 43
AN ASCENSION STORY 45
THE ONE INESCAPABLE CONCLUSION .... 46
DEDICATED
To the souls who can look
with the eyes of the Spirit
behind the sham and pre
tense of this world and see
God's eternal verities.
FOREWORD
This fourth brochure of revealing facts concerning Bal-
lardism offers documentary evidence showing that the
Ballard writings, in the main, are a wholesale appropria
tion from the works of other authors. This statement is not
based on heresay evidence, prejudice, or impression. The
Ballards' own written statements are offered as proof.
Against these statements are set down, in black and white,
virtually identical quotations from other authors, pub
lished many years previously to the Ballard books. No
one who honestly compares these parallel quotations can
escape the conclusion that the Ballard claim to "Ascended
Master" instruction for everything they give out is un-
equivocably false.
An author may be forgiven when he unconsciously uses
the material of another writer. That can and does happen
at times, to the chagrin and embarrassment of the author.
When an author knowingly uses the work of another,
and changes and disguises
it,
that
is
reprehensible, and
there
is
a
well-known word for it.
But when an author not only gets his material from a
well-authenticated source, and yet disclaims any and all
connection with
it,
saying that his work in its entirety has
been given to him by "Ascended Masters" and that "there
are no human concepts or opinions in it"—then
I
have no
words for
it,
and am left speechless at its overwhelming
audacity.
5
A STRIKING PARALLEL
Mr. G. W. Ballard's first book, "Unveiled Myster
ies/' bears a remarkable resemblance to a manuscript
written in 1883-86, and published in book form in 1899
under the title: "A DWELLER ON TWO PLAN
ETS," by Phylos.
The general nature of these two books is very similar,
having to do with transcendental experiences in subter
ranean retreats of the Great Masters of Wisdom, and the
use of phenomenal powers impossible to the average mor
tal, including sojourns to the Inner Planes of Nature and
concourse with Mighty Beings from the planet Venus.
Even the writing of these two books is done under the
same environmental influences, as noted below.
The author of "A Dweller on Two Planets" recounts
in his preface how his book was begun :
"... Within full view of SHASTA, one of her
loftiest mountain peaks, this book was begun*
and almost finished under the inspiration of that
spirit of nature which speaks ever to those who,
listening, understand." (Page XI, "A Dweller
on Two Planets.")
The author of "Unveiled Mysteries" tells also in his
preface or foreword how his book was started:
"This book is written* in the embrace of the ma-
* In order to facilitate comparison between Mr. Ballard's words and those
of other authors I have freely used italicized, capitalized, and bold-face type.
Please note that the italicized type in the Phylos quotation will refer the reader
to italicized type in the Ballard quotation, showing sameness or similarity in
language. Bold-face type in one quotation will refer the reader to bold-face type
in the parallel quotation. And so on with the other differences in typography
which the reader will note.
6
jestic, towering presence of MOUNT SHAS
TA, whose apex is robed forever in that pure,
glistening white, the symbol of the 'Light of
Eternity'." (Page X, "Unveiled Mysteries.")
Then the author of "A Dweller on Two Planets" goes
on to state in his preface:
"Upon the ability of the perusers to so AC
CEPT this book as history and not fiction, much
depends, in lighting up the Path for their souls."
(Page XIII.)
Likewise the author' of "Unveiled Mysteries" proceeds
to say in his preface or foreword :
"The saying that Truth is stranger than fiction
applies to this book. It is for the reader to AC
CEPT OR REJECT as he chooses, but the As
cended Masters, whose help I have received,
have said to me often : 'The more humanity can
accept our Presence, the wider they open the
door for us to pour greater and greater help to
them'." (Page XII.)
So far we have in these two books the same essential
ideas stated in very much the same way. Both books are
written in view of Mount Shasta, and its towering pres
ence lends inspiration to the two authors. Both of them
say that it is Truth and not fiction, and that more "light"
or "help" can come to the reader if he accepts it as such.
Now let us notice further parallelism.
MEETING THE MASTER
The author of "A Dweller on Two Planets" in his ap
pendix to Book Second tells of his journeying up the
7
mountainside of Shasta before his transcendental experi
ences take place.
"The day is hot, but the waters of the branch of
McCLOUD RIVER are cold as the pristine
snows of Shasta from which they flow . . . We
recline on the brink of a deep blue CRYSTAL POOL
. . ." (Page 247.)
The author of "Unveiled Mysteries" starts his story in
a similar way, by telling how he climbed up the side of
the mountain before his own transcendental experiences
occur.
"Mount Shasta stood out boldly against the
Western sky ... Its snow covered peaks glis
tened. (Page 1.)
As the day advanced, it grew very warm and I
stopped frequently to rest and enjoy to the full
the remarkable stretch of country around the
McCLOUD RIVER, valley, and town ... I
sought a MOUNTAIN SPRING for clear, cold wa
ter." (Page 3.)
Again we note in the above the striking parallelism in
time and place. But what are the authors thinking, what
are their thoughts and reactions to their surroundings?
Let us see.
Author No. 1 says :
"What secrets perchance are about us? We do
not know as we lie there, our bodies resting, our
souls filled with peace . . . that that tall basalt
cliff conceals a doorway. We do not suspect this,
nor that a long tunnel stretches away, far into
the interior of majestic SHASTA . . . the home
8
of a MYSTIC BROTHERHOOD . . . (Page
248, "A Dweller on Two Planets.")
Author No. 2 says :
"Rumor said there was a group of men, Divine
men in Fact, called the BROTHERHOOD
OF MOUNT SHASTA, who formed a branch
of the Great White Lodge ..." (Page 1, "Un
veiled Mysteries.")
Very much the same thoughts were these two thinking
as they wend their way up the mountainside or stop by a
cool spring to rest.
Both authors write of the coming into their lives of a
mysterious character, who profoundly influences their
lives, as we shall now see :
Phylos, the author of "A Dweller on Two Planets,"
tells how at a gold mining camp in these mountains he
met a remarkable man, a Chinese by name of Quong,
whom he later discovers to be a member of the Mystic
Brotherhood of Mount Shasta. (Page 252.)
G. W. Ballard, the author of "Unveiled Mysteries,"
also tells how in these same mountains he met a mysterious
individual whom he later finds to be a member of the
Mystic Brotherhood of Shasta and of the Royal Teton
Retreat. (Page 3.)
Let us now note further parallelism.
THE GRIZZLY BEAR AND PANTHER STORIES
In "A Dweller on Two Planets" Phylos relates that,
one day, he wanders away from his friend Quong, and en
9
ters the fastness of the forest. For a long time he is lost in
contemplation, when suddenly, he is rudely awakened . . .
"... In my path arose a terror, a huge GRIZ
ZLY BEAR . . . Wildly I looked about for a
tree ... 7 turned to run and —stood face to face
with the Tchin! (Quong). Calm and cool him
self, he bade me have no fear.
Stock still I stood, amazed to see him walk
slowly up to the grizzly which, from its FIERCE-
EYED aspect, changed to docility of looks . . . Was
Quong insane? I expected to see him rent in
pieces; instead, he placed his hand on the head
of the animal and said :
'Lie down!'
The order was obeyed at once, and then Quong
sat down on the prostrate animal and fondled its
great, stiff ears! Very gently, the bear licked the
human hand . . ." (Page 257.)
In "Unveiled Mysteries" Mr. Ballard relates a similar
story—only that it is he who plays the part of the hero,
and the "fierce-eyed" bear becomes a "vicious-eyed"
panther. He, too, is lost in contemplation, when suddenly
he hears a twig crack . . .
"... Not fifty feet away, I saw a PANTHER
slowly approaching. My hair must have stood
on end. I wanted to run —to scream —anything
—so frantic was the feeling of fear within me . . .
Then came the thought that one part of God
could not harm another part . . .
A feeling of Love swept over me . . . The
stealthy tread ceased, and I moved slowly to
ward it . . . The VICIOUS GLARE in the eyes soft-
10
ened, the animal straightened up and came slow
ly to me, rubbing its shoulder against my leg. I
reached down and stroked the soft head. It . . .
rolled over like a playful kitten." (Pages 30-31.)
Quite similar, are they not—these two stories of Phy-
los' grizzly bear and Mr. Ballard's panther? But notice
in the following quotation that even Mr. Ballard's pan
ther is not original with him, for Phylos himself has a
"panther story." One day as he and Quong were walking
through the forest, "a doe and her fawn stepped into the
path ..." Then suddenly . . .
"... A puma, or 'CALIFORNIA LION' (Fe
lix Concolor) , leaped into our midst with the ev
ident intention of having venison for supper . . .
Quong . . . turning to the PANTHER, said
sternly, but in a calm, low tone: 'Peace!' And
there was peace, for the carnivore slunk down
. . . purring . . . (Pages 269-70, "A Dweller on
Two Planets.")
Is it not all too evident that Mr. Ballard has used these
"grizzly bear" and "panther" stories of Phylos? The
panther idea is retained, but the poor old grizzly is taken
out of the picture. However, it seems that later on there
was need for another wild animal in Mr. Ballard's ex
periences, and as it was seemingly too flagrant a steal to
use Phylos' grizzly, another wild animal had to be se
lected. But a variety of vicious wild animals in our Amer
ican forests is ever so limited, and the only one that could
apparently fill the bill seemed to be the "MOUNTAIN
LION." And so this "vicious" animal was made the bur
den of another wild animal story. But here, as we shall
see, Mr. Ballard gets into serious difficulty with fact.
11
In Phylos' account given above, the "puma, or Califor
nia mountain lion," is referred to also as a "panther"—
which is correct. In this second Ballard story, to be com
mented upon, two allegedly different kinds of animals —
a "panther" and a "CONSIDERABLY HEAVIER
MOUNTAIN LION"— have a terrible battle together,
and both are killed. (Pages 232-33, "Unveiled Myster
ies.") The fact of the matter is that all these animals, with
different names, are one and the same animal, as Phylos
has correctly stated. The Encyclopaedia Britannica says
it is "a skulking, cowardly beast," that it "rarely attacks
man," and is spoken of as the "American Lion." Mr. Bal
lard's apparent need to have another and more vicious
wild animal to attack the "panther" in order to build up a
good story has therefore led him into absurdities. And
this is not the last of this poor, pathetic, panther story, for
consider the following:
Mr. Ballard writes that a "panther" and a "mountain
lion" attacked him on separate occasions without provo
cation as he was moving serenely through the forest, or
sitting on a log, with his thoughts centered on the great
Ascended Master "Saint Germain." These animals —on
good authority —are "cowardly beasts" that "rarely attack
man." Therefore, to be attacked ONCE in a whole life
time by an American mountain lion is a real and unusual
experience—an event against which Lloyds of London
would no doubt like to insure every occasional forest wan
derer at very good odds. But to be attacked TWICE
within a period of only three months in one of our own
National Forests—-each time without provocation —is a
happening that even Ripley could not be able to find.
12
And yet Mr. Ballard has insisted that every word of this
story is true. Remember also that Mr. Ballard has brought
"Saint Germain" dominantly into these wild animal stor
ies. If these stories are not true, then his remarks about
"Saint Germain" in connection with them are not true.
And this alone should cause one to put a question mark
after everything else he has ever said about this so-called
"Ascended Master." The same imaginative tendencies
that could weave fantastic stories about panthers and
mountain lions could easily build up fanciful inventions
about "Ascended Masters."
THE OPENING OF THE TEMPLE DOORS
Having followed these two authors through strikingly
similar experiences in the manner of writing of their
books, the meeting with their respective Masters, and
their experiences with wild animals, we shall now follow
them to the entrances of their respective Temples in the
heart of the mountain. Is there parallelism here too? Let
us see.
Phylos relates how Quong, the mysterious one, takes
him to the Temple at MOUNT SHASTA. They reach
the unseen entrance on the mountain side . . .
"... We halted in front of a huge ledge of ba
saltic rocks, some hundreds of feet in height.
The ledge was broken and twisted as if by some
rending CONVULSION. All about the base lay
huge fragments broken off the face of the wall.
Against the cliff rested a giant block many tons
in weight . . .
13
. . . He touched the ENORMOUS quadrangu
lar block. Immediately it TIPPED on edge
and leaned outward over us. . ." (Pages 270-71.)
Mr. Ballard likewise relates how Saint Germain, the
"Ascended Master," takes him to the Temple, but in this
case it is the retreat at the ROYAL TETON*, situated
in the Wyoming Rockies. They halt, as did the former
pair, before an unseen doorway on the mountain . . .
"Going to a point where huge masses of stone
lay in CONFUSION, as if giants had hurled them
in a war upon each other, Saint Germain touch
ed a great boulder. Instantly, the ENORMOUS
mass TIPPED out perhaps four feet away from
its original position." (Page 76.)
Notice in the above two instances how word for word,
and thought for thought, the same story is told. Is this
not something more than a coincidence?
Now, let us go with the two neophytes into their re
spective retreats. As usual we shall quote from Phylos
first. He should be the first for his story was told way
back in 1883-86. Mr. Ballard's story is not told until for
ty years later.
WITHIN THE MOUNT SHASTA AND TETON
RETREATS
Phylos and Quong enter the Shasta retreat:
"He . . . SWUNG back the door-stone again
and stepped within the tunnel ... I followed;
* Phylos mentions the "THE TETONS" of the "famous Yellowstone region"
on page 173, saying that over twelve thousand years ago, during the Atlantean
civilization, a "TEMPLE" had been built on the highest peak of these mountains.
Is it not probable that Phylos was the inspiration for Mr. Ballard to locate hii
retreat in one of the Tetons instead of at Mt. Shasta?
14
the door was replaced, and I found that the pas
sage led into the mountain . . . All about me
shone a marvelous WHITE light . . . nothing
cast a shadow . . . After going about two hun
dred feet we came to a door made apparently of
bronze . . . This door gave entrance to a large
circular chamber not less than sixty feet across,
with domelike ceiling ten or a dozen feet high at
its junction with the wall, but over twenty feet
in the center. The same wonderful illumination
was OMNIPRESENT . . . The extreme beauty
of such walls . . . polished like glass . . . and bril
liant beauty of silver and gold. (Pages 272-74.)
Mr. Ballard and "Saint Germain" enter the Teton re
treat :
"The great mass of bronze weighing many
tons SWUNG slowly open, and admitted us into
a spacious chamber . . . We descended some two
hundred feet, and entered another space, circu
lar in shape. (Page 76. They then take a tube
elevator and enter a great council hall.)
This room was at least two hundred feet long
and a hundred feet wide, with a ceiling about
fifty feet high. A SOFT WHITE light, which
Saint Germain explained was an OMNIPRES
ENT force that the Great Ones always use for
light, heat and power, flooded the entire place.
. . . (Page 81.)
The surface of the walls, ceiling and floor had
been highly polished . . . The arched ceiling ris
ing some ten feet higher than the side-walls, was
inlaid with a most unique design. Directly in the
center was a disc of gold . . ." (Page 82) .
Here we have two startlingly similar accounts of the
interiors of two different places, one the Mount Shasta
15
Retreat, the other the Royal Teton Retreat. The two
neophyes, Mr. Ballard and Phylos, led by their respective
teachers, "Saint Germain" and Quong, enter the retreats
in the same miraculous way, i. e., the "tipping out" of an
"enormous" boulder or block. Both of them descend about
"two hundred feet" through a "bronze" doorway, and en
ter a "circular" chamber. The same "omnipresent" light
glows around them. The walls are highly "polished," and
have "gold" decorative effects. The "arched" or "dome
like" ceilings in both instances are said to be a certain
number of feet "higher" than the side-walls.
Within these two different retreats many similar ex
periences occur to the two neophytes, but we shall have
space only to mention a few of them.
While Phylos is in the midst of many revelations, a
marvelous personage from the planet VENUS gradually
forms in the Mount Shasta retreat out of a cloud of in
cense. This Being is called Mol Lang of Pertoz. He has
come to give Phylos instruction, and to take him to his
home upon the planet Venus. He is "the very personifica
tion of occult wisdom," tall, erect, and attired in a beau
tiful robe—a "commanding presence." (Pages 287-88.)
Likewise, at the Royal Teton, a marvelous visitor ar
rives. He comes from the planet VENUS, and is bourne
in on "light" rays with eleven others. He is unusually
tall, and therefore called "The Tall Master from Venus."
(Page 248, "Unveiled Mysteries.") The Venus visitor in
Phylos' book was called "Mol Lang." Lang is the German
for "tall," and therefore we see that Mr. Ballard perhaps
has gotten even the idea of Venusian "tallness" from Phy
los' Mol Lang of Pertoz.
16
THE "TWIN RAYS" OF PHYLOS
On page 350 of "A Dweller on Two Planets" occurs
the following explanation about Twin Rays :
"Each man we see, except those who have been
transfigured [ascended?], is but a semi-ego, and
each woman the same—two of these having one
spirit. When the PERFECTION TIME com-
eth, all halves shall unite . . ."
Phylos meets his "twin" upon the planet Venus, who in
a more "perfected" state awaits him there. But he has to
return to earth.
"Aye, beloved, we part, but it is for a little while,
and then for eternity we shall be one together."
(Page 352.)
Later Phylos is subjected to certain terrible trials and
tests. He draws a "MAGIC flame" around himself for pro
tection. His ordeals come. He surmounts them. Phyris,
his "twin," comes to him, and a Voice speaks :
"Thy souls shall unite. Behold, thou shalt pre
sently hereafter have no more two bodies, but
one only, and it thy Spirit body." (Page 393.)
Mr. Ballard, throughout his books, stresses the "Twin
Ray" idea to the point of satiety, and no doubt the Phylos
book has been the inspirational source of it. We find the
counterpart of the above happenings well represented in
Mr. Ballard's "Magic Presence." Nada, the "Twin
Ray" of Daniel Rayborn, on her cosmic plane of activity
as an Ascended Being, . awaits the coming of her other
Ray. Rayborn after some trials and preparations even
tually makes his ascension and is united to his heavenly
Twin. (Page 288.)
17
"GOLDEN AGES" AND OTHER SIMILITUDES
As a further evidence of the influence of Phylos' book
on Mr. Ballard's writings, consider the following:
The Phylos book tells of the destruction of the present
Sixth Age, and the coming of the SEVENTH AGE—
the New, or Golden Age. (Pages 414-15.) Now, occult
writers of practically every other school are agreed that
humanity is in the Fifth Age, and the new age that is to
be is the SIXTH. However, instead of following these
occult authorities, Mr. Ballard follows the Phylos book
—making the coming age the Seventh, or the "last and
permanent Golden Age."
Both Phylos and Mr. Ballard are privileged to look
over the scenes of the past and of the future in their books.
They see the submerging of Atlantis, and the destruction
of the earlier civilization of Mu, or Lemuria. They see
the close of the Sixth Cycle and the coming of the great
Seventh Cycle or Golden Age—when "America, and the
rest of the world, be more glorious than ever thou hast
dreampt." (Page 422, "A Dweller on Two Planets.")
Many more correspondences and similarities between
the writings of these two authors could be mentioned, but
enough has been given to show unmistakably to clear-
seeing individuals that Mr. Ballard has used the material
in the Phylos book for his own transcendental experiences.
The "marvelous inventions," the "spheres of violet and
blue light," the "perpendicular column of white light,"
the "Viviant Fire" that destroyed negative things" (page
282), the "Unfed Fire" (page 133), and many other
18
transcendental things all have their counterparts in the
Ballard writings and teachings.
On the whole, Mr. Ballard's work is a sort of modern
ized version of "A Dweller on Two Planets," with new
thrills and transcendental happenings to make it seem
different. These new thrills, however, generally have
their counterparts in other occult books, as we shall pres
ently see.
THE "LADY MASTER NADA" SINGING
INCIDENT
In Will L. Garver's book, the "BROTHER OF THE
THIRD DEGREE," published in 1894, there occurs a
remarkable duplication of one of the thrilling incidents
in Mr. Ballard's book. You will recall reading in the
"Magic Presence" how the ascended mother of Rex and
Nada surprised the "Saint Germain family" one evening
by appearing on the stage of an opera house in Washing
ton, D. C, "wearing a gown glittering with jewels," and
gave voice to a group of songs, after two other artists had
failed to appear because of illness.
Almost the identical incident is recorded in the
"Brother of the Third Degree." Alphonso and his sis
ter Esmeralda are two prominent characters in this book.
Their mother had, as they believed, died years before.
But one evening on the stage of the Grand Opera House
in Paris, after one of the regular artists had failed to ar
rive because of illness, she suddenly appears as one of the
"immortals," dressed in a "Grecian costume of purest
white," and thrilled her audience with a group of songs.
Note the following "deadly parallelism":
19
THE GARVER BOOK. Scene: Opera house in Par
is,
capital of France.
"It was on the night of the fifth of September . .
.
I
occupied
a
box at the Grand Opera House
where Mile. Vivani, the world-renowned prima-
donna, was to appear that evening.
The house was filled to its utmost capacity . . .
The audience was eager with EXPECTA
TION, when the manager appeared . .
.
'Ladies and gentlemen,' he said,
.
.
. 'Mile. Vi
vani has contracted
a
severe cold and will not be
able to appear this evening .
.
. But
I
am pleased
to announce that another will appear in her
place ... It
is
my pleasure, ladies and gentle
men, to present to you Mme. NINA, the un
known queen of song.'
As he spoke
a
beautiful and stately woman,
dressed in
a
Grecian costume of purest white,
appeared upon the stage. (Alphonso in great
surprise recognizes his long-lost mother.)
With wondrous power her voice rises and falls
in almost celestial harmony as she sings that
great love song, 'Utopian Lovers'
.
. .
For several moments after she had ceased
a
hush
pervaded all, as though too sacred for applause,
and then—
a
heavy breath, as from
a
thousand
souls at once, was followed by
a
deafening roar.
("Brother of the Third Degree," pages 60-62.)
THE BALLARD BOOK. Scene: Opera house in
Washington, capital of United States of America.
"Christmas Eve came, and the great auditorium
was packed to capacity. As the curtain rose .
.
.
all felt
a
curious state of EXPECTANCY, feel
ing that something unusual was about to take
place. (Rex, Bob, and other artists sing.)
20
. . . Then the manager stepped to the front of the
stage, and announced his surprise, for the clos
ing number.
'Allow me to present our Guest Artist of the eve
ning,' he said . . . 'Prima Donna NADA.'
We all gasped with surprise, as the mother of
Nada and Rex entered, wearing a gown glitter
ing with jewels.
She sang with tremendous power and glory . . .
It has spread like a mantle of peace and comfort
over America and the earth. At the close of her
song, the audience was gripped in silence for a
few seconds, and then burst forth showering
their deep appreciation . . ." (She closes with a
LOVE SONG CALLED: "I LOVE YOU" —"Magic
Presence," pages 244-45.)
Compare these two accounts and you will quickly see
there is no essential difference —other than one was writ
ten in 1894 and the other about forty years later. Even
the names of the long-lost opera singers are similar : Nina
in one book becomes Nada in another. If this isn't a bit
of plagiarized fiction on Mr. Ballard's part, then the only
way he can prove that it is not, is to have "Prima Donna
Nada" duplicate her performance. If it was possible for
her to appear once in public, there is now more reason
than ever to appear again to vindicate Mr. Ballard and
his Ascended Master, "Saint Germain."
IS THIS THE GENESIS OF THE BALLARD
SAINT GERMAIN?
The latter part of Mr. Garver's book, "The Brother of
the Third Degree," is devoted largely to the mysterious
21
influence of Saint Germain over Alphonso Colono, the
hero of the book. It is strikingly like the influence of
Saint Germain over Mr. Ballard. Saint Germain is de
scribed as follows in the Garver book :
"He was tall and sparely built, with long golden
hair and a light, curly, chestnut beard. . . His
pale, serious face was not marked by a single
wrinkle, yet I knew he was not young. His eyes
were blue and shone with a fiery luster . . . That
this personage may be no mystery, I will say that
he was the celebrated Count de St. Germain . . ."
("Brother of the Third Degree," page 290.)
The "long golden hair," fiery "blue eyes," and "chest
nut beard," together with "unlined face" and the "re
markable powers," all sound suspiciously like a Ballard
description; yet this was written forty years before Mr.
Ballard began his own amazing recital. The idea of
"Saint Germain" and his phenomenal powers might eas
ily have been taken from the Garver book and modern
ized and Ballardized to suit the imagination of those who
like to believe fiction rather than fact. The following is
a quotation, not from Mr. Ballard's writings, as it sug
gests, but is taken from the Garver book :
"Suddenly a VOICE commanded me to come with
him, and at the same instant I saw St. Germain
beside me. Without question or even surprise, I
obeyed, and felt myself going through space
with the rapidity of thought: my body had no
weight and was connected to that of St. Germain
by a violet thread of misty substance." (Page
353, "Brother of the Third Degree.")
Mr. Ballard, in his books, many times has said that he
22
traveled with Saint Germain in similar fashion. One eve
ning he hears a voice—the voice of "St. Germain":
"I heard his VOICE say distinctly: 'Come!' I had
learned to obey that call and immediately stood
outside of my body, passed quickly through
space, and in a few moments came to the Royal
Teton." (Page 128, "Unveiled Mysteries.")
The Ballard Saint Germain is in some respects similar
to the Garver Saint Germain. However, Mr. Ballard
dresses up his character more, arraying him in glittering
jewels, gold, and gorgeous robes —supposedly like a God.
Forty years ago the Garver Saint Germain had not suc
cumbed to the gold standard of the Ballards.
THE THRILLING ADVENTURES IN THE
"MAGIC PRESENCE"
In Mr. Ballard's "Magic Presence" there are thrilling
adventures which might easily have been inspired by sim
ilar adventures in the Garver book, as we shall now see.
There is in the "Brother of the Third Degree" a story
of Saint Germain's secret work to save France during the
time of Napoleon. It tells how the "man of destiny" was
influenced by Saint Germain in an effort to weld into be
ing a "United States of Europe."* Alphonso, the hero of
the book, is represented as a Government spy, and is an
agent of Napoleon and Saint Germain. There are recitals
of dangerous missions, secret messages, quick journeys,
veiled women, communication by means of thought, pro
tection by means of the White Light, with the members
* Mr. Ballard in his platform remarks has repeated this story of Saint Germain
and Napoleon.
23
of the Great White Brotherhood guiding and influencing
the issue in an effort to save France and Europe.
In the "Magic Presence" world powers are not at war,
but there is the "menace" of a world-wide communistic
danger and international "sinister force activities." There
are secret missions, "closely veiled women," spies, occult
reading of messages, "cloaks of invisibility," trips by aero
plane, auto, train, steamer, and even by means of "famous
racing camels."
Instead of the Napoleonic wars, as in the Garver book,
we have the war against "sinister force activities." In
stead of the influence of "Saint Germain over Napoleon,
we have his influence over high Government officials of
Europe, Asia, and the United States. His agent, or "Mes
senger," a Mr. Gaylord, and a "veiled lady," with the aid
of the councils of Arabia and India, successfully straight
en out an "impending crisis" in Arabia. Then the "Mes
senger" hurries back to America to report the results of
his thrilling work :
"We arrived in New York, and hurried at once
to Washington, where my friend presented the
results of the Arabian matter to the PRESI
DENT AND HIS CABINET. (Page 210,
"Magic Presence.")
The "veiled lady" he discovers to be his "Twin Ray."
Through a strange and remarkable coincidence, the
"veiled lady" of the Garver book likewise is a soul mate
of Alphonso, and helps him in his espionage work during
the Napoleonic wars. And both these respective sets of
twin souls worked under supposedly the same "Saint Ger
main." The parallelism is inescapable.
24
Many parallels between these two books might be men
tioned if there were space. However, I cannot neglect
mentioning Mr. Ballard's "tall man in an indigo cape"
(page 318), whom he saw come out of a hut, and later
discovers to be the great Master, "Saint Germain."
Lo and behold I almost the same identical phrase is used
in the Garver book (page 283). Forty years ago, Mr. Gar-
ver wrote of a "tall man with a long indigo-colored cape,"
whom Alphonso saw get out of a cab, and later discovers
to be his great Master 1
MR. BALLARD'S TRIP TO THE FAR EAST
It is not hard to find in the Garver book the analogue
of Mr. Ballard's alleged trip to the retreat in the Hima
layas in far away India.
Saint Germain, in the latter part of the Garver book,
informs Alphonso that he is to go to the Far East. He
tells him :
"The great hierophant sends me to call thee to
the East . . . Thy sister will meet thee at Calcut
ta and journey with thee through the forbidden
passes to Teshee Lumbo. (Page 368, "Brother
of the Third Degree.")
Likewise, Mr. Ballard toward the end of his recorded
experiences is informed by "Saint Germain" that he, too,
is to go to the Far East. Mr. Ballard and Alphonso re
spectively start out on their trips, and both tell of the joy
they had en route. Both arrive eventually at Calcutta, and
then journey on toward their Himalayan retreats.
"We reached Darjeeling, and from there jour
neyed as pilgrims on to Lhassa. Here St. Ger
25
main, the St. Germain of France, once more in
the body, met us to lead us across the unknown
country to the sacred home." (Page 369, "Broth
er of the Third Degree.")
The Ballard party also journey to Calcutta and Dar-
jeeling, and are met en route by "Saint Germain." Both
parties eventually reach their respective retreats in the
Himalayas. There Alphonso's Master tells him:
" 'Brother . . . after many weary incarnations
the wanderer has returned; gladly we welcome
his now purified and illuminated soul . . . An
other crisis is approaching in the new Atlantis
of the West, and as we never idle, you must be
prepared . . . You have now joined the immor
tals . . . Each being, IN A FLAME of the uni
versal Spirit, and with its creative power, can
make a form to suit its wants or needs in any
portion of the boundless universe.'
"
(Pages 272-
73, "Brother of the Third Degree.")
Alphonso enters the great "Sacred Chamber" of the
retreat, and, for his last and greatest initiation, sits in a
great "PEARL CHAIR."* Here in the presence of
Saint Germain and others, he becomes an "Immortal."
In similar fashion (pages 384-390), Mr. Ballard en
ters the "Great Council Chamber" of the retreat in India,
where his body is purified by a Great Master. He is then
taken to the "Cave of Light," where he is immersed in the
"ETERNAL FLAME" and given a body of "Immortal
Endurance."
Thus it would appear that Mr. Garver's popular hero,
Alphonso Colono, and his fictionalized version of Saint
• At the "Cave of Symbols" Daniel Rayborn sits in a great "GOLD CHAIR"
called the Atomic Accelerator, which enables him to become an "Ascended Being."
26
Germain have—after some forty years of bookshelf and
library experience —suddenly come to life. But despite
Mr. Ballard's extravagant claims for himself, it is evi
dent that he gets tired as do ordinary mortals, and has to
eat and sleep to keep up his "immortal" endurance.
THE SPAULDING AND BALLARD PARALLELS
Baird T. Spaulding's "LIFE AND TEACHING OF
THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST" has undoubt
edly been a prolific source of some of the Ballard ideas.
Compare the parallels now to be given, and you will im
mediately see that they are almost identical. Remember
that the first and second Spaulding books were published
years before the Ballard books—1924 and 1927, respec
tively.
On page 34 of the "Life and Teaching of the Masters of
the Far East," Vol. I, there occur these words:
"When Jesus said, 'I AM THE DOOR,' he
MEANT the I AM in each soul is the door
through which the life, power and substance of
the Great I AM which is God, comes forth into
expression through the individual/'
On page 219 of the "I AM Discourses" Jesus asserted-
ly says :
"When I said: 'I AM THE OPEN DOOR
which no man may shut, / MEANT humanity
to understand I referred to the 'Great I AM'
which is the Life of every individual manifest
in form."
In the Spaulding book, Vol. II, page 126, one of the
Masters says :
27
" 'When you have realized the Christ, you may
hold out your hand, and if it is gold you want,
the gold will be there.' Here he held out his
hands and there was a circular DISC of gold
somewhat larger than an English sovereign in
each hand."
In the Ballard book, Vol. I, page 4, the Ascended Mas
ter, "Saint Germain," says :
" 'Whatsoever I desire manifests itself when I
command in Love . . .
See ! I have but to hold out my hand and, if I
wish to use gold—gold is here.' Instantly, there
lay in his palm a DISC about the size of a ten
dollar gold piece."
On page 96 of the Spaulding book, Vol. II, one of the
Masters says:
"You must know that you are entitled to every
good and perfect gift of God. . ."
On page 5 of the Ballard book, Vol. I, "Saint Ger
main" says :
"... God's intent for every one of His children
is abundance of every good and perfect thing."
And yet, despite these "deadly parallels," Mr. Ballard
perpetrates the enormous sacrilege of having Jesus say:
"This work of Saint Germain and Myself is
entirely DIFFERENT from anything that has
been given forth to the Western World." (Page
351, "Discourses.")
TALES OF THE GOBI AND SAHARA DESERTS
Mr. Spaulding records in Vol. II that he and his party
visited the Gobi Desert, where they came to "the site of
28
three of the ancient ruined cities." They were told of "rec
ords" that "place the dates of these cities back over two
hundred thousand years (page 71). They learned many
things about this marvelous civilization :
"Gold was a very common metal . . . These peo
ple had absolute command of all the natural
forces . . . (page 71) ... written RECORDS that
have been carefully kept from generation to gen
eration for over seventy thousand years . . . Liv
ing was always dedicated to the Great Cause of
life . . . They accepted life's true SOURCE,
and it released its boundless treasures . . . (page
111).
Then an individual here and an individual there
began to wander away . . . there came a separa
tion as the love faculty had not been fully de
veloped by all" (page 113).
Mr. Ballard records in Vol. I how he and the Master
"Saint Germain" visited the Sahara Desert, also the
"sites" of two other "ancient cities," the Inca Civilization
and the Buried Cities of the Amazon. (Elsewhere is men
tioned a marvelous civilization of two hundred thousand
years ago.) The Etheric Records of the Sahara Desert
are revivified, and "Saint Germain" tells him:
"This civilization . . . rose to its apex seventy
thousand years ago . . . These people remem
bered their SOURCE and knew themselves as
Sons of God, hence were the possessors and oper
ators of power and wisdom . . . (page 39) . In the
ancient records, that have come down to the
present day, this former civilization is always
referred to as the Golden Age . . . (page 42).
Gold was a common commodity . . . (page 44).
. . . There was a portion of the people who be
29
came more interested in the temporary pleasures
of the senses . . . This caused them to lose con
sciousness of the God Power . . . (page 47).
In these two accounts very much the same story is told
—the chief difference being in the name of the deserts.
THE SPAULDING AND BALLARD
"ASCENSION" STORIES
Years before the advent of the Ballards, Mr. Spauld-
ing was writing about "the MISTAKE which so many
are making today, the mistake you call and look upon as
DEATH" (page 36, Vol. II). Likewise, Mr. Ballard
refers to death as a "mistake."
In Vol. II Mr. Spaulding gives a description of the
"raising" of an "old man" with "long snow-white locks"
(page 58). With "outstretched hands" Jesus is stated to
have said :
" 'Dear friend and brother . . . Your body need
not be left to mortal dissolution . . . You may
now arise and go to your Father . . .'
. . . As that form arose, the LIGHT seemed to
penetrate every object so that nothing cast a
shadow . . .
With every vestige of age gone, our friend,
whom we looked upon as raised from the dead
. . . began to speak . . .
'Dear Brothers, if I could lay a transforming
hand upon you and lift you to where I stand . . .
my joy would be multiplied manyfold . . .'
In a moment he had DISAPPEARED from
our view . . ." (Pages 37-40.)
30
Now compare the above with Mr. Ballard's descrip
tion of the "raising," as he says, of an "old man with
white hair and beard," given on pages 237-42 of "Un
veiled Mysteries." But instead of Jesus officiating, Mr.
Ballard himself is accorded that honor. "Raising his hand
in salutation," Mr. Ballard states that he said :
" 'Mighty God in man ... let whatever is to be
done for this Brother . . . come forth.'
As my hand came down, it held the Crystal Cup
filled with Living Liquid-Light. I offered it to
him . . .
'Drink without fear. Thy search is ended.'
. . . Every vestige of age disappeared . . .
'Behold! Thou art forever free from all earthly
limitation. Ascend now . . .'
Very slowly, he began to rise from the ground
. . . Then in a voice of deepest Love, he said :
*I shall return to thee, Beloved Brother. Well
shalt thou be repaid for this Transcendent Ser
vice . . .'
... He DISAPPEARED on a Radiant Path
way of 'LIGHT'."
Except for the "Crystal Cup" and the substitution of
Mr. Ballard for Jesus the Christ, these stories are very
similar. We cannot help but wonder what happened to the
Cup—whether it ascended with the old gentleman, or
whether Mr. Ballard held onto it.
THE "I AM" AND THE "DAZZLING LIGHT
RAYS"
Despite the alleged statement of Jesus that "Saint Ger
main, Myself, or any other Ascended Masters are not giv
31
ing out teachings of the "I AM" to the Western world,
except through Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Ballard and their
son, Donald, and those named to them and under them,"
Mr. Spaulding and a number of other writers, years ago,
were teaching and writing about the "I AM." The fol
lowing sound suspiciously like Ballard statements, but
they were published in 1924:
"It is only when I get rid of the outer entirely
and let the actual, the I AM speak . . . that I
can do these things that you have seen." (Pages
6-7, Vol. I.)
"This I AM, GOD BEING, which is power,
substance, and intelligence, is given form by con
sciousness . . . (Page 34.)
"When he knows I AM is the fulfillment of his
desire, the desire is filled." (Page 141.)
I am sorry that I haven't space for more of these "Be-
fore-Ballard" statements, but I assure you there are plenty
of them in the Spaulding books, and in a number of other
books which the Ballards have evidently drawn upon.
The Sun Publishing Co. of Akron, Ohio, back in 1914,
published a hundred and sixty page book, called "THE
Impersonal Life/' entirely devoted to an exposition of
the "I AM."
Mr. Spaulding's third book was copyrighted in 1935,
and is therefore contemporary with the three Ballard
books. In it there is much about the "White Light
Rays."
"You can send out the pure WHITE RAY of
God, so energized that your body actually glows
with a brilliancy far greater than that of the
noonday sun." (Page 39.)
32
"As Jesus ceased speaking a DAZZLING RAY
of pure White Light shot out from the center of
the solar part of His body." (Page 44.)
"Back of the form is pure crystal, DAZZLING
WHITE, light emanations." (Page 121.)
How like the Ballard statements all this isl Space is
too limited to quote the many other parallelisms in these
two series of books. There is much in the first and second
Spaulding books about the Declaration of Independence
and the Constitution of United States, which Mr.
Spaulding says are sacred, God-inspired documents, and
that "America is destined to be the guide to the whole
world" (page 65, Vol. I). Also, ". . . Your race will be
come a LIGHT to all other nations . . ." (page 30, Vol.
II). Again, how like the Ballard statements!
THE RAYBORN FICTION TALES
The reader will recall that in Mr. Ballard's book, "The
Magic Presence," he built up quite a fantastic story about
an American family by name of Rayborn. An absolutely
true story, so he says. David Rayborn was a rancher, and
his two children, Rex and Nada, were early in life in
structed by "Saint Germain." They were taken to various
retreats, first in a cavern in the Wyoming hills called the
"Cave of Symbols," and later taken to the secret temples
of the Far East.
Now we find a similar story appearing in a book called
"MYRIAM AND THE MYSTIC BROTHER
HOOD." Its author is Maude Lesseuer Howard, and it
was copyrighted in 1924 by Eleanor M. Reesberg. In this
book, published ten years before the Ballard book, we are
33
also introduced to an American family, a mother and her
two children, Harold and Myriam. They, too, lived on a
ranch in one of the western states, and early in life they
contacted a Mystic Brotherhood, which had its retreat in
a series of caves, which "had been hollowed out ages ago
in the solid rock of the hills" (page 34). This had been
accomplished "by a brotherhood of God-like men and
their disciples" (page 182).
Change the names of Harold and Myriam to Rex and
Nada, compare their experiences together, and the reader
cannot help but see the similarity between their adven
tures. Let us briefly run through some of these parallel
experiences.
SECRET LABORATORIES IN CAVES
The author of "Myriam and the Mystic Brotherhood"
recites how the children, Harold and Myriam, enter a
great laboratory in the "CAVE IN THE HILLS"
where they are shown . . .
" . . a blast FURNACE . . . forge ... and every
mechanical appliance for moulding, shaping
and finishing to the highest degree any instru
ment of metal. . ." (Page 268.)
Similarly the author of the "Magic Presence" tells how
the children, Rex and Nada, enter a great laboratory in
the "CAVE OF SYMBOLS," where they see . . .
". . . large electrical FURNACES, and huge
rollers for changing the various metals into thin
sheets." (Page 67.)
Compare the above similarity of mechanical equip
34
mcnt, and then note below the way the two authors de
scribe the inventions prepared in these two retreats:
The "Mystic Brotherhood" book says:
"There is scarcely an invention of a scientific
nature in the world that was not first originated
by some of our mystic brothers and frequently
worked out and perfected by them . . . Then the
image of it is thrown into the mind of some man
who has worked along that line in other lives
..." (Page 313.)
The "Magic Presence" says:
"Many discoveries and inventions are being
BROUGHT FORTH here, by awakening the past
memory within those who are doing the experi
mental work. By calling into the outer activity
of the mind that, which has been attained in
previous lives . . ." (Pages 60-61.)
There is no essential difference between these two quo
tations. Both say that the two respective Brotherhoods
"originate" or "bring forth" the inventions; and they
then "image" or "call" them into the outer mind, to be
used by those who have worked along these lines in past
lives.
"THE BROTHERS OF THE GOLDEN ROBE"
The St. Clair children learn many things from the
Brothers, which have their analogue in the Ballard books.
In this retreat in the hills they meet altogether nearly
"two hundred" members, some of whom are called the
"Brothers of the Golden Robe." Similarly, in the re
treat in India, the Saint Germain children meet "two
35
hundred" members of the Great White Brotherhood.
And Mrs. Ballard in her decree work has oftentimes
called on the "Brothers of the Golden Robe."
Harold and Myriam are frequently referred to as the
"Children of the Light." Likewise, in the Ballard books,
Rex and Nada and the others have this same designation.
The St. Clair "Children of Light" are arrayed in spe
cial robes. They see beautiful rays of "soft golden light"
in a "soft violet atmosphere," and rays of "DAZZLING
white." There are moving pictures of "living scenes in
action" (page 34).
The St. Germain "Children of Light" are similarly at
tired, but in "seamless" robes. They see beautiful colored
lights, and rays of "dazzling white." There are moving
pictures of "life after life" projected on a "Cosmic Mir
ror" (pages 121-23).
Harold and Myriam learn about an "EVER ILLUM
INATING SACRED FIRE" (page 320), which corre
sponds to the Ballards' "UNFED FLAME." They also
learn how to protect themselves from "physical and men
tal dangers" by forming an "ELECTRIC BELT"
around their bodies (page 355). The Brother tells them:
"This MYSTIC BELT, as some of you know, is com
posed of the same subtle matter as that of their
own subtle bodies . . . Hence, protection is al
ways given to the children of light . . ."
Similarly, Mr. Ballard refers to a Belt of White
LIGHT which originates from the more subtle body of
the "Presence." He describes it as an "ELECTRONIC
BELT" and sometimes as a "Pillar or Tube of Light,"
36
saying that it forms a "wall of protection" for the Chil
dren of Light.
A Master known as the "Brother of the Silence" tells
Harold and Myriam about the coming New Age (pages
158 to 167), with its marvelous labor saving devices,
noiseless machinery, perfected airships, and people who
are able to "absorb nourishment from the violet rays of
the sun."
". . . Flowers bloom in profusion the year
around, and the ANIMAL KINGDOM is ap
parently extinct." (Page 159.)
The Ballards have promised their adoring audiences
virtually the same marvels —from "ever-blooming flow
ers" and "noiseless lawn-mowers" to the labor-saving
"violet rays," which—by the way—will not only "clean
house" for milady but will clean up the karma of a thou
sand lives. And the "Beloved Saint Germain," who has
evidently never loved a pet animal in all his life, because
animals "were created by powerful black magicians,"
comes out most emphatically and says :
"With the seizing and binding of those two
powerful black magicians, the ANIMAL
FORMS of earth will withdraw." (Page 22,
Oct. 1936 "Voice.")
THE "ARABIAN NIGHTS" IDEA
The two St. Clair children marvel at all the wonderful
things they see and experience. This causes Harold to ex
claim that it seems like "a wild fairy story of the Arabian
Nights type." But the Brother replies :
37
"As for the Arabian Nights, there is deep truth
embedded in each story which only the initiated
are able to discover." (Page 199.)
Similarly, "Saint Germain" in his "I AM Discourses"
says:
"The Arabian Nights' Tales: They originally
came from the Masters, who gave them out as
Veiled Truth to help humanity. . ." (Page 205.)
Mr. Ballard himself goes further with this Arabian
Nights matter, and he actually stages a literal "Magic
Carpet" performance, with himself, Rex, Nada, and a
few other favored ones sailing away into the stratosphere:
"The two youthful attendants brought out a gor
geous Persian silk RUG of a most wonderful
golden yellow . . .
. . . We stepped upon it . . In a moment, we all
began to feel lighter . . . We glanced down, saw
that we were leaving the earth . . .
. . . We continued to rise, until we were fully
eleven thousand feet above the palace. (Page
381, "Magic Presence.")
In Baird T. Spaulding's book, "Life and Teaching of
the Masters of the Far East," Vol. Ill, there is a similar
story :
"Three of the company walked to a large flat
STONE and seated themselves as though in
prayer. In a very few moments, the stone began
to rise and all were carried to the temple on the
stone. (Page 117.)
There is no doubt but that Mr. Ballard has been en
thralled by the Arabian Nights idea. The word Arabia
itself is used many times throughout his books. He rides
38
to the Cave of Symbols in Wyoming on an "Arabian
steed," says that Nada (who sings "Arabian Love Songs")
in a past life was the "daughter of an Arab Sheik" and in
this life the grand-daughter of one, writes about the "fa
mous racing camels of Arabia" and the saving of the
"Arabian Government" from an "impending crisis," tells
of his own visit to the "Arabian Retreat" and of the work
of the "Arabian Council" —then sails off into the strato
sphere upon a literal "Magic Carpet" to prove to an un
believing world the truth about the tales of "Arabian
Nights."
NEOPHYTES BEFORE THE TEMPLE OF
INITIATION
Getting back to earth and to our two books again,
please notice the following parallelism :
In the "Mystic Brotherhood" (pages 176-77), Har
old, the youthful neophyte, had become ready for a cer
tain initiatory ceremony. Lucius, his sponsor, led him
down subterranean passages until they came to a "solid
wall."
"A VOICE from the other side called :
iJVho seeks admission?'
Lucius replied:
'A son of the Brothers of Light . . .'
'Give the final test.'
Then Lucius began to CHANT. . .
A long ladder was thrust through the square
opening above their heads . . . Then the wall
guard on the opposite side called:
•Enter, O Son of Light !'
Lucius went up first . . ." (Harold follows.)
39
In the "Magic Presence" (pages 389-90), Rex, Bob,
and the other youthful neophytes (with Mr. Ballard
among them), had also become ready for an initiatory
ceremony. Chananda, their sponsor, led them down a nar
row passage into a "cave of wondrous beauty" until they
came to "doors of solid gold." Then spoke . . .
"... A VOICE from the ethers . . .
'Who seeks entrance here?'
. . . Chananda answered instantly:
'Children of the Light . . .'
'Speak the Name! . .
Together, we spoke the 'WORD.'
'
Then the Doors of Gold slowly began to open
. . . and again the 'Voice' spoke :
'All who enter here leave forever their earthly
garments behind. Who dares to enter first?'
'I will,' Bob answered instantly . . ." (The rest
follow.)
Comment on these two parallels is hardly necessary.
Their similarity is all too evident.
THE THREE CRYSTAL CASKETS AT THE
ROYAL TETON
What seems like another "Arabian Nights" story is the
one telling about the "three crystal caskets" at the Roy
al Teton that contained the bodies of Mr. and Mrs. Bal
lard and their son Donald, which bodies had been pre
served for many thousands of years in a state of perfect
preservation —"life-like," with "golden hair" and "gold
en garments" (pages 123-24, "Unveiled Mysteries").
Then, as if this were not enough to strain our credulity,
Mr. Ballard goes on to recite about an experiment "which
40
has not been accomplished for over seventy thousand
years." He writes that as he and Mrs. Ballard, and son,
Donald (then a boy of about twelve years of age), stood
by these three caskets . . .
"... a Marvelous Radiance gathered and drew
close around the bodies and ourselves ... In a
few moments . . . the caskets were empty.
We stood there clothed in those bodies we had
laid aside so long . . ." (Page 249, "Unveiled
Mysteries.")
Now, in the book "Myriam and the Mystic Brother
hood," there is a "resurrection" story from which Mr.
Ballard could easily have gotten the idea of these bodies
coming to life. Myriam in this book tells how in a vision
she sees one of the initiations of Apollonius of Tyana in
the Great Pyramid of Egypt. I shall quote Myriam's
story in abridged form :
"I saw him . . . looking into a deep box made
in the form of an ancient Egyptian cross . . .
The shining figure then placed its dark coun
terpart (which now appeared to be dead) into
this black cross-like box . . . the form lying in
the stillness of death within the box.
Presently I noticed a CIRCLE OF LIGHT resem
bling a brilliant rainbow above the motionless
form . . .
This light rested upon the face and inanimate
form of Apollonius.
Perfect silence reigned. In a few minutes the
great one facing the East called out . . .
'Come forth, thou conqueror of hells and all
illusions.'
There was then a slight tremor of the body and
41
Apollonius arose glorious, beautiful beyond the
power of human description." (Pages 289-90.)
In a similar way—so Mr. Ballard says —the three
bodies comprising the Ballard family arose from their
caskets and were very beautiful to look at, for "those
bodies resembled the ones of the Visitors from Venus"
(page 250). These were "seven gentlemen and five ladies
—all extremely handsome" (page 248). In these fully
grown, handsome bodies Mr. and Mrs. Ballard and their
twelve-year-old son spent most of the New Year's Eve
night of 1930 at the Royal Teton—but, like Cinderella of
old, it seems they were transformed back into their less
beautiful garments at the stroke of twelve. And the seven
handsome gentlemen and the five handsome ladies from
Venus went back to their home in a blaze of "Light,"
which "took the form of an enormous eagle —its body vio
let and the head and feet of gold," while the "entire moun
tain trembled . . ." (page 259).
THE TRIP TO EUROPE AND THE EAST
After many transcendental experiences in the "Cave in
the Hills," Mrs. St. Clair was informed by one of the
Brothers that she and her two children were to go East,
and "immediately preparations were begun for their
journey and absence for an indefinite period."
"All business matters pertaining to the ranch
were satisfactorily arranged." (Page 322.)
In the same way "Saint Germain" informed the Ray-
born family that they, too, were to go East—and all busi
ness matters pertaining to the ranch were likewise ar
ranged.
The St. Clair party arrive at the "Silent Brotherhood"
42
at Buda-Pesth and stay there for a number of years. Har
old continues on to an Himalayan retreat, where for a
while he is lost to the world. The children learn that they
are to "prepare the conditions for the new race." The
Brother tells them:
". . . You, my children, must go forth and by oc
cupying positions of power and influence, man
age the affairs of the nation and save it from
utter annihilation. (Page 347.)
Harold through his contact with the Brotherhood had
become "six feet three inches in height" and of splendid
physique. He is told: "You must be guided by your own
inner self as to how to proceed" (page 348). Through his
persistent work and inner guidance he is lifted to the of
fice of the Secretary of State (page 353). He becomes
"aware of the dangers menacing his country," and learns
that "the nation would soon find itself under a most gall
ing yoke . . ." He is able to remove, however, "the wily
agents of this secret body," and replace them by "trusted
men of the order" (page 358).
One cannot escape from noticing, in the above, the sim
ilarity with Mr. Ballard's written and spoken statements
concerning the work that is to be done in America by
Rex and Bob; also of his own thrilling work with the
secret service agents of France and America. (See pages
177 to 241, "Magic Presence.")
THE SANCTUARY OF FLAME PARALLEL
Harold, during one of his initiation ceremonies, is im
mersed in the sanctuary of "AETHERIG FLAME" for
three days. He then enters the "Diamond Temple" and
stands before an "alabaster altar" over which hovered a
43
"marvelous oval light." Here he becomes one of the "Im
mortals" as the Brother announces . . .
"... For thee death cannot exist. Thou art
ETERNAL life." (Page 306.)
Similarly, in the "Magic Presence" Mr. Ballard re
cords that Rex, himself, and the other "Children of
Light" are immersed in the "ETERNAL FLAME".
They enter a "cave of wondrous beauty" encrusted with
"dazzling crystalline substance," and beyond "doors of
Solid Gold" it looked like the "white heat of a great fur
nace." In "two days and two nights" a marvelous change
takes place . . .
". . . We emerged from the 'ETERNAL FLAME'
wearing our new bodies of Immortal Endur
ance." (Page 390.)
Thus it is seen that both Harold and Mr. Ballard pass
through the "FLAME," and something happens to both.
Harold becomes an "Immortal," but Mr. Ballard only
achieves "immortal" endurance. The amazing thing,
however, is that he said on the platform that he had
been given the opportunity of making his "Ascension"
six years ago, but had refused it "in order to go back into
the world and serve." Quite illogical, we think, because
he also says that "an Ascended Being is able to serve bet
ter than an ure-Ascended Being." It is hard, therefore, to
understand why Mr. Ballard chose the lesser service
when he could have done a greater service, such as the
great "Saint Germain" is able to do. Besides, he says "As
cended Masters do not make mistakes." Becoming an
"Ascended Master," therefore, would have saved Mr.
Ballard from making all the mistakes and contradictions
we have revealed in these brochures, and it would not
44
also have been necessary for him to have made such free
and unauthorized use of the copyrighted works of un-
Ascended humans.
•
AN ASCENSION STORY
In the "Magic Presence/' pages 287-88, an account is
given of the ascension of the father of Rex and Nada. In
the "Mystic Brotherhood/' pages 367-68, an account is
given of the ascension of the mother of Harold and Myr-
iam. She calls her children together, and tells them:
" 'I have finished my work here in the body and
shall pass on to service and to bliss in other
realms ... I am to enter the Temple of Flame.
That will be my last initiation.'
Promptly at midnight on the day appointed
the Prince presented himself and with Harold
escorted Mrs. St. Claire to the Temple of Ini
tiation. When the outer ceremonies were con
cluded the lady serenely entered the great domed
Temple of Flame, walked to the center and
seated herself on the circular throne . . . Her face
was aglow with heaven's own light . . . Little by
little each tiny atom of physical matter was seen
to disintegrate and like glintings of fleecy gold
en light rise upward and disappear in space un
til only the beautiful network of mesh of the
golden life-web into which the physical matter
had been built remained.
. . . Just as the rays of the risen sun streamed into
the temple, with one sweet note of eternal joy
that overwhelmed all other music, the brilliant
FLAME or LIFE-WEB, ascending upward on the
slender, golden thread, disappeared.
'Ah,' breathed Myriam, 'blessed are the eyes
45
that can thus view that beautiful birth scene,
called death.'
"
I leave the ascension subject with this beautiful de:
scription without further comment, for it must be evident
that others have written on this subject before Mr. Bal
lard, and in more detail and beauty.
It is only right and proper to entertain fond hopes for
the transcendental things of life. It is fitting that we put
these aspirations of the soul into fiction and build up an
ideal existence with the hope of attaining it some day.
The author of "Myriam and the Mystic Brother
hood" has undoubtedly endeavored to do this. She has
given these things as fiction, not as absolutely true hap
penings, although there is much in it of a philosophical
nature that is doubtless true. But to write books of imag
inative experience, largely taken from other authors, as
Mr. Ballard has done, depicting himself as a most extra
ordinary individual in this and in former lives, and in
sisting that his readers accept every word of it as the Gos
pel truth—that is egotistical nonsense and must some day
have its inevitable denouement.
THE ONE INESCAPABLE CONCLUSION
To the reader of this brochure, I now ask this question :
If you had not read a single Ballard book, but merely had
read what is here quoted verbatim from the works of four
other authors —would you, or would you not, have an
astonishingly accurate outline of Mr. Ballard's own re
corded "experiences," from his asserted meeting of the
Master on Mount Shasta to his alleged immersing in the
"Eternal Flame" at the retreat in far-away India?
46
If your judgment tells you that these experiences are
remarkably similar—even to the very language in which
they are described —how are you to account for it? Would
the frequently over-used word "coincidence" explain it?
You know it would not. Would the flimsy excuse that "all
spiritual experiences are similar" solve it? How could
it,
in the face of Mr. Ballard's repeated assertions (backed
up by "Jesus" and "Saint Germain") that these "As
cended Master teachings and experiences" are all so dif
ferent? How could "similarity of spiritual experiences"
explain
it
in the face of Mr. Ballard's statement in the
very first sentence of "Unveiled Mysteries" that:
"The time has arrived, when the Great Wisdom,
held and guarded for many centuries in the Far
East,
is
NOW to come forth in America
.
.
."
This so-called "held" and "guarded" Great Wisdom,
which Mr. Ballard presumes to write about, had already
been recorded in books in our own America many, many
years before the Ballard writings—as we have shown—
and by many more authors than
I
have had the space to
quote. These additional sources will be given later.
There
is
consequently but one inescapable conclusion :
that Mr. Ballard got his material, in the main, from hu
man authors and not from "Ascended Masters."
As
a
further evidence that this
is
true, Mr. Ballard in
his official magazine, the "Voice OF THE
I
AM," has
sought to scare off any one making detailed quotations
from his books and comparing them with other books.
For six consecutive months since the publication of the
first brochure in this series, he has devoted one entire
page of his magazine with the following scare-head
:
47
PROTECTION OF OUR COPYRIGHTS
"We hereby notify all readers and individuals every
where, that everything in the books of the SAINT GER
MAIN SERIES . . . OUR PUBLIC LECTURES . . .
AND INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN TO GROUP LEAD
ERS is covered by our copyrights . . . [etc] .
This means, we will not allow this instruction and In
formation to be deleted, distorted, adulterated or diluted for
any purpose whatsoever and we shall protect them fully.
We are determined that this GIFT OF LIGHT,
TRUTH AND FREEDOM from the Ascended Masters to
mankind SHALL BE PROTECTED and kept PURE,
TRUE AND UNCHANGED FOREVER . . .
We shall use our Full Power and our Full Right to
maintain COMPLETE PROTECTION AT ALL
TIMES." [Their capitals.]
SAINT GERMAIN PRESS and
MR. AND MRS. G. W. BALLARD
"Our copyrights!" I wonder what the copyright own
ers of the four books quoted from will say about the "de
letion, distortion, adulteration, or dilution" of their copy
right material. If it comes to a matter of protecting copy
rights, one should be sure about who is the author and
who the plagiarist. It would be unfortunate to get these
two mixed. And as to this matter of protecting "their''
copyrights "FOREVER" I might refer them to the copy
right laws of our land which place a definite limitation
upon how long a copyright shall be in force.
Some day, every one of the Ballard students —if they
are really to worship at the Shrine of Truth instead of at
the feet of human personalities —will have to face the in
controvertible evidence of the Ballards' own writings.
We should write it on our hearts and minds that Truth
and Falsehood can never walk, hand in hand together,
toward the heights of Spiritual Attainment.
48
The
" I AM" Series
THE SOURCE
OF THE
BALLARD WRITINGS
By
GERALD B. BRYAN
BROCHURE No. 4
r
THE BALLARD SAINT GERMAIN
This is the title of Brochure No. 5 of this series, now in prep
aration. It will contain startling disclosures showing how the Bal-
lards have created —and are themselves influenced by—a fictitious,
imaginary, psychically-constituted "Ascended Master," whom they
have used to help build their system of metaphysical absurdities.
It will be shown that the Ballard Saint Germain is a sort of "psy
chic straw man," having no doubt some basis as an astral-plane
entity with purposes of his own, but made also to conform to the
Ballard fetish for Gold, Twin Rays, Ascension, and unreasoning
Transcendentalism.
In order to show the real character and influence of this so-
called "Ascended Master," whom thousands of students have
placed alongside of Jesus the Christ, one or more letters that were
sent through the mails under his typewritten "signature" will be
published, in an effort to save his deluded followers from going
on with practices that at the best are gray magic, and not white.
