{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__ballard___ascended_master_discourses.pdf","mytitle":"Ascended Master Discourses","mylang":"de"}
W W
ASCENDED MASTER
ftXAA JU j . V i-\
. ' i t a W . W . S a w ”
B Y THEASCENDED MASTERS
/ / I l i W W W
SAINT GERMAIN PRESS
POST OFFICE BOX 1133
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
1
COPYRIGHT 1937 BY
SAINT GERMAIN PRESS
All rights reserved,
including copy of Frontispiece,
color plates, foreign translations,
radio broadcasts and
all publications.
PRINTED IN U. S. A.
C
T
)
C
IA 1 0 6 8 4 0
JIil tbá7
T H E S A I N T G E R M A IN SERIES
OTHER BOOKS BY THE SAME AUTHORS
Unveiled Mysteries Vol. I
• • • • • •
T he Magic Presence Vol. II
T he “I AM” Discourses Vol. Ill
# * * • • •
The "I AM” Adorations and Affirmations Vol. V
D E D I C A T I O N
This series of books is dedicated in deepest Eternal
Love and Gratitude to our Beloved Masters, Saint
Germain, Jesus, Nada, the Great Divine Director, the
Great White Brotherhood, the Brotherhood of the
Royal Teton, the Brotherhood of Mount Shasta, the
Great Ones from Venus, and those other Ascended
Masters whose loving Help has been direct and with­
out limit.
T R I B U T E
I
N T H IS hour of world crisis, the Great As­
cended Masters are giving every Assistance pos­
sible to the “ I AM ” Students, and all who
sincerely seek the Light throughout America and
the world. This takes place through Their Projection
of Light Rays which are an Out-pouring of Light Sub­
stance from the Ascended Masters’ Octave of Life.
The various Ascended Masters, Who dictated
these Discourses, have Each One given His Own
Radiance in and through the Words themselves.
It does not matter who doubts this Great Truth,
Law and Activity, the Great Ascended Masters and
these Dictations are the Mightiest Law, Reality and
Blessing that have ever come to mankind in hundreds
of years. They come as a glad free Gift of Love and
contain only Perfection for all. They radiate the Feel­
ing to the student and reader that he too may become
Master of himself and his world and rise into the
full Freedom and Victory of the Ascension.
Each book is sent forth as a Blazing Golden Sun,
charged with the Ascended Masters’ Consciousness,
Substance, Love, Light, Wisdom and Perfection with
the Power of a Thousand Suns to illumine, set free,
protect, supply, bless and produce Perfection for all
who read or contact them.
vii
via T R IB U T E
Through these books all shall feel the Mighty
Truth and Activity of these Great Ones, to the ful­
ness of the Freedom and the Ascension of all man­
kind.
G odfre R a y K ing
F O R E W O R D
T
HIS book is given to the “ I AM ” Students
and readers, to help them feel the Closeness
and Reality of the Blessed Ascended Masters.
Through this feeling, these Great Ones will be able
to pour forth a Mighty Radiance of Light and Love
from Their Octave of Life. In this way, Ascended
Master Assistance can be given to all who will feel
the Reality of these Mighty Beings deeply; for that
feeling will enable the Student or reader to reach up
and make conscious effort and application for his
own Eternal Freedom—the Ascension.
The Discourses contained herein were dictated
in Words of Living Light to me, before thousands
of ‘‘I AM ” Students who felt the Closeness and Real­
ity of the Ascended Masters unmistakably, in their
own physical bodies and the atmosphere of the room.
They are given to the public in the same phrase­
ology as the students heard them, for they were con­
versations to help the students solve their problems
and gain Self-control in their efforts toward Mastery.
These Marvelous Discourses will convey the same
feeling and activity to all who read them, if the
reader will place himself in the position of the stu­
dents and feel the Masters are speaking to him di­
rect; because all mankind’s problems are similar and
X FOREW ORD
all need the same explanation to give them Mastery
over themselves, which means obedience of their
human feelings, and attention to the Great Law of
Life—
the “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
Each book is charged with the Light, Love, Sub­
stance, Energy and Vibration from the Ascended
Masters own Octave of Life and from Their Ascended
Bodies, to step up the vibratory action of those who
read or contact them, and through that, release As­
cended Master Qualities into all the physical experi­
ences of the individual.
The action of this is the same as that of our physical
sun upon the plant Life of our world. By Radiation
from above, the fulness of the Divine Plan is ex­
panded into the physical manifestation of this world
and the individual himself becomes an Ascended
Master, through obedience to the Law of Life, the
“ Mighty I AM Presence.”
G odfre R a y K ing
C O N T E N T S
DISCOURSES
Saint Germain’s ......................January 1,
The God Meru’s . . . .January 21,
Saint Germain’s ...................... January 24,
Saint Germain’s . . . . February 13, :
Great Divine Director’s . . March 18, :
Cha Ara’s ....................................March 19,
Lady Master Nada’s . . . March 20,
A rc tu ru s....................................March 21,
Mrs. Rayborn’s .........................March 21,
Tall Master from Venus’ . . March 21,
Mr. Rayborn’s .........................March 22,
Meta’s ..........................................March 23,
David Lloyd’s .........................March 24,
The Old Man of the Hills’ . March 25,
Our Precious Bob’s . . . March 26, :
Saint Germain’s ............................April 4, :
Great Divine Director’s . . . April 4, :
Our Precious Rex’s . . . . April 5, :
Our Beloved Nada’s . . . . April 6, :
Our Beloved Pearl’s . . . . April 6, :
ASCENDED MASTER
DISCOURSES
By T he A scended M asters
« * ■■ ------------------
S A I N T G E R M A I N ’ S D I S C O U R S E
SHRINE CLASS, LOS ANGELES
JANUARY 1, 1 9 3 7
B
ELOVED ones, there are a few announcements
I wish to make before I begin My talk to you.
' It seems pitiful that We should again have to
mention this. One, whom We have trusted, is being
tempted to go forth saying, he is receiving the Light
and Sound Ray from Jesus, when he is not. Unless
this thing ceases among the students, it will be Our
unhappy duty to report him by name. Now let this
cease forever. When such a thing comes forth it will
be unmistakable and We will know it.
As long as these Beloved Messengers go forth in
this Work, We shall not project any Tangible Vis­
ible Tube of Light to anyone and all the Ascended
Masters are One. This Work must be kept clean
and pure and We shall see that It is.
After this class, I have not had an opportunity to
x FOREW ORD
all need the same explanation to give them Mastery
over themselves, which means obedience of their
human feelings, and attention to the Great Law of
Life—the “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
Each book is charged with the Light, Love, Sub­
stance, Energy and Vibration from the Ascended
Masters own Octave of Life and from Their Ascended
Bodies, to step up the vibratory action of those who
read or contact them, and through that, release As­
cended Master Qualities into all the physical experi­
ences of the individual.
The action of this is the same as that of our physical
sun upon the plant Life of our world. By Radiation
from above, the fulness of the Divine Plan is ex­
panded into the physical manifestation of this world
and the individual himself becomes an Ascended
Master, through obedience to the Law of Life, the
“ Mighty I AM Presence.”
G odfré R a y K ing
C O N T E N T S
DISCOURSES PAGE
Saint Germain’s . . . . . January 1, 1937 1
The God Meru’s . . . .January 21, 1937 *7
Saint Germain’s . . . . •January 24, 1937 27
Saint Germain’s . . . . February 13, 1937 46
Great Divine Director’s . . March 18, 1937 62
Cha Ara’s ............................ . March 19, 1937 75
Lady Master Nada’s . . . March 20, 1937 93
A rc tu ru s............................ . March 21, 1937 110
Mrs. Rayborn’s . . . . . March 21, 1937 136
Tall Master from Venus’ . . March 21, 1937 152
Mr. Rayborn’s . . . . . March 22, 1937 167
Meta’s ................................. . March 23, 1937 184
David Lloyd’s . . . . . March 24, 1937 207
The Old Man of the Hills’ . March 25, 1937 226
Our Precious Bob’s . . . March 26, 1937 242
Saint Germain’s . . . . . . April 4, 1937 257
Great Divine Director’s . . .A pril 4, 1937 272
Our Precious Rex’s . . . .A p ril 5, 1937 282
Our Beloved Nada’s . . . . April 6, 1937 302
Our Beloved Pearl’s . . . . April 6, 1937 3l8
ASCENDED MASTER
DISCOURSES
By T he A scended M asters
* — -----------------
S A I N T G E R M A I N ’ S D I S C O U R S E
SHRINE CLASS, LOS ANGELES
JANUARY 1, 1 9 3 7
B
ELOVED ones, there are a few announcements
I wish to make before I begin My talk to you.
' It seems pitiful that We should again have to
mention this. One, whom We have trusted, is being
tempted to go forth saying, he is receiving the Light
and Sound Ray from Jesus, when he is not. Unless
this thing ceases among the students, it will be Our
unhappy duty to report him by name. Now let this
cease forever. When such a thing comes forth it will
be unmistakable and We will know it.
As long as these Beloved Messengers go forth in
this Work, We shall not project any Tangible Vis­
ible Tube of Light to anyone and all the Ascended
Masters are One. This Work must be kept clean
and pure and We shall see that It is.
After this class, I have not had an opportunity to
2 ASCENDED M ASTER DISCOURSES
announce My Request to the Messengers, but they
will have a month free for broadcasting, if they so
wish. Then, there will be a class in San Francisco
and in Dallas, Texas. The announcement of the dates
will be made as soon as the Messengers have time to
make the arrangements.
I want you precious Children of the Light, if you
will, to realize that We are Real Tangible Beings.
We know everything that is going on in your mind,
motive and intent; and We are standing guard over
This Work, make no mistake about it! You might
deceive the Messengers, but you will never deceive
Us, not one.
I tell you dear hearts, with such a Transcendent
Privilege before you, how can anyone allow the claw
of the sinister force to sieze upon him and make him
attempt to do unkind and mistaken things? Now be­
loved ones, stand guard over yourselves and your
worlds, with all the Power of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” I tell you, when students or other indi­
viduals become so unenlightened, that they can
criticise our beloved Messengers, they are making a
great mistake.
I tell you beloved ones, Law is Law, and We know
the Law in spite of any human opinion to the con­
trary! If you will not believe the Law after all the
Infinite Proof which stands before you, then We can
not help you, but remember there is no human being
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 3
so important in this world, that there are not plenty
ready to take his place.
You must understand, that I am speaking with
all the Love of My Being, in sending forth these
words; but I am firm and determined. Our be­
loved Messengers, the beloved Sindelars, and the
beloved Rogers’ have battled down walls of human
creation. They are not going to have to do it any
longer. If there are any battles on, We will take a
hand. Now dear ones, this is in all kindness, do not
go out and accuse Me of being a fighting Ascended
Master; but I mean business! These beloved Mes­
sengers, without a word of complaining, have battled
down human walls that have been set up against them.
They have won their Eternal Victory. I bless them
forever, for the strength and courage which I said
was in them in the beginning and it has been proved
true.
Therefore, dear hearts, I speak in this manner to
you in the beginning of this New Year, that you may
have the full power and conviction of My Words
active within you, which stand guard with you and
for you and your Eternal Protection.
Those, who will not control themselves and shut
out the human discord, criticism, condemnation,
jealousy or whatever the activity may be, cannot have
Our Help I tell you. We have pled, and pled and
pled, with the students all over America and said,
4 ASCENDED M ASTER DISCOURSES
that Self-control was the important thing to be main­
tained for their Freedom. Dear beloved, precious
ones, if you will not listen to Us, who know the Law -
having gone the way, every step of it you have to go
and in far more severe conditions than you have
to-day—then We cannot help you.
This Work will go on, do not worry about that;
but if you will allow Us, We want to protect you,
We want to help you; but We cannot help you, if
you are going to continue in this kind of thing. When
the beloved Messengers leave the cities in some
places, and I see disturbance comes in, how can the
beloved students permit it? One human being wants
to govern another and set up laws; when the Laws
are in the books. The Group Outline, the Divine Di­
rector has sanctioned and asked to be used. Some un­
happy individuals have accused Mr. Rogers of hav­
ing brought out that Group Leader’s regulation.
Every word of it is from the books or magazines. He
simply brought it together, and it was blessed and
sanctioned by the Divine Director.
Beloved Ones, who are visiting students and Group
Leaders from the different parts of the United States,
please carry this word from Me: Any Group Leader
who does not wish to follow that outline, please do
not be a Group Leader! We wish to bring a regulated
activity which will be a Mighty Focus throughout
the United States, for the Freedom and Blessing of
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 5
mankind and for its protection. If we cannot be
obeyed, when We know and through the kindness
of the Law bring before you, that which will enable
you to be free, then again We cannot help you. It is
so imperative at this time! Tremendous protection
has been given the coast of America. Do you want to
undo this, beloved students everywhere, and let
this cataclysm come forth and destroy you all; just
because you will not control your human impulses?
Precious ones everywhere, awaken! Oh awaken, to
the importance of this. You have become one with
this Mighty Stream of Light. Why will you not pro­
tect It instead of criticizing It? I am not speaking to
the precious ones who have not criticised, you know
that; but I am speaking everywhere to those in the
mental and feeling world who have done this.
Precious ones, let us come in as One Great Pillar
of Light in the future and make this year, one of
the most magnificent in the Victory of the “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” which has ever been known in the
history of the world. It can be and it will be done!
Will you join It or step aside?
Oh, that you could for one moment know the
Great Love that We have poured forth to you—the
whole entire Group of Ascended Masters. The Mes­
sengers have poured out Love and called It forth
from the “ Mighty I AM Presence” without limit.
You have poured forth so great a Love. I am speaking
4 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
that Self-control was the important thing to be main­
tained for their Freedom. Dear beloved, precious
ones, if you will not listen to Us, who know the Law -
having gone the way, every step of it you have to go
and in far more severe conditions than you have
to-day—then We cannot help you.
This Work will go on, do not worry about that;
but if you will allow Us, We want to protect you,
We want to help you; but We cannot help you, if
you are going to continue in this kind of thing. When
the beloved Messengers leave the cities in some
places, and I see disturbance comes in, how can the
beloved students permit it? One human being wants
to govern another and set up laws; when the Laws
are in the books. The Group Outline, the Divine Di­
rector has sanctioned and asked to be used. Some un­
happy individuals have accused Mr. Rogers of hav­
ing brought out that Group Leader’s regulation.
Every word of it is from the books or magazines. He
simply brought it together, and it was blessed and
sanctioned by the Divine Director.
Beloved Ones, who are visiting students and Group
Leaders from the different parts of the United States,
please carry this word from Me: Any Group Leader
who does not wish to follow that outline, please do
not be a Group Leader! We wish to bring a regulated
activity which will be a Mighty Focus throughout
the United States, for the Freedom and Blessing of
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 5
mankind and for its protection. If we cannot be
obeyed, when We know and through the kindness
of the Law bring before you, that which will enable
you to be free, then again We cannot help you. It is
so imperative at this time! Tremendous protection
has been given the coast of America. Do you want to
undo this, beloved students everywhere, and let
this cataclysm come forth and destroy you all; just
because you will not control your human impulses?
Precious ones everywhere, awaken! Oh awaken, to
the importance of this. You have become one with
this Mighty Stream of Light. Why will you not pro­
tect It instead of criticizing It? I am not speaking to
the precious ones who have not criticised, you know
that; but I am speaking everywhere to those in the
mental and feeling world who have done this.
Precious ones, let us come in as One Great Pillar
of Light in the future and make this year, one of
the most magnificent in the Victory of the “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” which has ever been known in the
history of the world. It can be and it will be done!
Will you join It or step aside?
Oh, that you could for one moment know the
Great Love that We have poured forth to you—the
whole entire Group of Ascended Masters. The Mes­
sengers have poured out Love and called It forth
from the “ Mighty I AM Presence” without limit.
You have poured forth so great a Love. I am speaking
6 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
to a few who have been critical. Oh beloved, precious
ones, take command of the human self and silence
its activity forever. It is only yourselves whom you
injure, precious ones. After all that has been said by
the Messengers, how can you fail to comprehend
that every discordant thing you send out is but
injuring yourselves? You cannot harm This Work
nor the Messengers, but you do harm yourselves
sometimes irreparably.
Our Love is so great for you and I say again, as
I did in the East, I have the confidence that My Love
is great enough to redeem every one. One day, when
they see the missed opportunity, the hearts of those
who have temporarily stepped aside, will cry out for
the Radiance which they have left.
Precious ones, Oh that you could understand and
feel the great, great Love which enfolds you. Our Be­
loved Nada, during this class, has performed one of
the most Transcendent Services for every one of you;
enfolding you in Her Infinite Substance of Divine
Love. Our Precious Nada—there has been very little
said about Her; but I am going to say something to­
night, which you will never forget. In civilization
after civilization, she has been the Inspiration and the
Power to lift them to the height. Such is the privilege
you have, in receiving the Radiance of Our Beloved
Nada, Who made the Ascension before Jesus.
Do you still feel, Oh my precious ones, that these
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 7
Great Beings are just an imagination of the Mes­
sengers? Is it possible that such still can be the case?
I trust not. The Service rendered to humanity is
inconceivable to one in the limitations of the flesh.
Still, you blessed precious ones, who have been drawn
under this Radiance by My Humble Efforts, have
serving you these Marvelous Beings, transcendent
beyond all concept of the average individual. Oh
every precious one, awaken and let your heart release
Its Feeling and Understanding of these Mighty
Truths for you.
Now then, We shall pass this matter by and in be­
half of Jesus, Beloved Nada and the Beloved Divine
Director, I extend Their and My Gratitude, Thanks
and Congratulations to the beloved students; to the
many who were able to reach the Royal Teton last
night. Ten thousand, two hundred and twenty-seven
were there last evening. It was a wonderful thing and
a Service was rendered heretofore unknown in the
history of the earth. This Service will continue for
the first seven days of the New Year from all of the
Retreats; the one North of Suva; the one in Arabia;
Chananda’s Home—the Cave of Light in India; the
Cave of Symbols; the Royal Teton and the various
Temples of Light.
As the beloved Messenger, Mrs. Ballard has said,
the earth is being drenched by these Great Rays of
Light and Energy. Every effort is being made to give
8 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
protection, blessing and Freedom to the earth. Why?
My precious ones, because of your Great Love poured
forth and that of the students throughout the United
States. This call has enabled things to be done which
were impossible without it. Make no mistake about
it, your Eastern Coast and your California Coast
would have disappeared, if this had not been done.
Now let the arrogance of the human mind deny that,
if it will.
Dear ones, how willing the human is to have
opinions; but remember those never change the Law
of Life. I will later give the Messengers the full de­
tail of the marvelous Activity at the Royal Teton last
night, so you all may have it.
Within you, Oh beloved ones, has been a trans­
cendent activity during the past year. One which
should be infinitely encouraging to all of you and
I am sure it is. Oh, the great volume of your Love
that has poured forth. How We rejoiced and en­
deavored in Our humble way to convey back to you
Our Love, Strength and Courage.
Beloved ones, your “ Mighty I AM Presence” is
your Infinite health, your Infinite strength, your In­
finite peace, happiness and courage, just waiting for
you to be harmonious enough; so Its Great, Its Mighty
Energy can pour forth unqualified by any discordant
feeling. Do not expect the energy from the Great
Presence to give you relief, if you refuse to harmonize
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 9
yourself enough, to stop qualifying that Wonderful
Energy as you call it forth. Do you not see, precious
ones, how simple it is and yet so majestic in its action?
Many, many call forth this Mighty Energy with
great earnestness and in an unguarded moment re­
qualify it; then wonder why they are distressed. Oh
precious ones, will you for your own sake, every time
something discordant occurs, stop! still yourselves!
and say: “ Now what did I do which caused that?
‘Mighty I AM Presence’ take it out of me! annihilate
the cause and effect of whatever did it! If it is some
past accumulation, ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ keep
me reminded to call You into action to use the Violet
Consuming Flame, to consume everything of the
past; so something destructive cannot rush forth into
outer activity.’’ It is because you do not do this, that
you get into difficulty.
I want to call your attention to another activity
also. Dear ones, sometimes part of a family accepts
this Great and Wonderful Knowledge and some of
them do not. Sometimes their criticism and disturb­
ance brings them into disaster. Oh, it seems so strange
that all will not see the Great Law which is acting-
all the time within you dear hearts. Do you not see,
that you become the Great Law of your world
through your visualization, your feeling and your
qualification? This Mighty Stream of Energy from
your Presence is constantly flowing through you filled
io ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
with Love, Kindness and Perfection; and you still
keep requalifying It with discordant feelings, com­
pelling It to take on the wrong qualities. Then that
discord spreads into your world. It cannot help it!
It is not the fault of your Presence; but your un­
controlled human keeps doing that and keeps you in
distress.
To-night, while I am talking to you in this heart
to heart manner, a Great Work is going on. We try
to help by strengthening you all, with that which
you require to become Master of your feeling; to
enable you to govern it; to cause it to come into
harmonious obedience to the Great Presence. Its
Great Stream of Energy is intensifying each day,
pouring forth through you, trying to bless and carry
Perfection into your world.
Oh my loved ones, try now to feel this so earnestly,
so vividly active within you, that never again will
anyone be tempted to feel unkind or give expression
to discord. You could be so quickly free, if you would
only do this. We cannot compel you, precious ones;
but We plead and plead with such earnestness for
you to understand, so you do call the Presence into
action to govern it.
Oh, We love you so greatly. We know what your
struggles are, even better than you do; because We
have gone through all of them. In My early expe­
rience you might be interested to know, precious
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES ii
ones, that sometimes things were so terrifying, my
hair fairly stood on end, in the experiences I had
to go through to gain the Victory.
To-day, you have the Infinite Assistance of the
Cosmic Law and the Great Ascended Ones, which
We did not have in Our day of Victory. I call this
to your attention for your strength and courage,
that you may rise in the strength of your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” and win your Victory quickly. It
is so easy now, and the Love is so great which is being
poured out to you from everywhere; not only the
Great Love of the Messengers but from the students
everywhere, as these classes are held all over the
United States. Their great Love is pouring out to
you from their “ Mighty I AM Presence,” like a
mighty river and the numerous telegrams are proof
of it. Individuals would not go to the expense of
sending telegrams, if they were not sincere in their
feelings. So dear ones, please awaken! realize that
such is the opportunity before you, for your great
Freedom, Glory, Attainment, Victory and Ascension.
To-day, when the Beloved Master Jesus spoke to
you what do you think was going on? The call had
been made by all of you here, that His Ascended
Master Consciousness of the Ascension be anchored
within your feeling world, and It was this afternoon!
Do you not see how, precious ones, your calls are
constantly being answered?
i2 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
In the fulness of this Great Light, the Infinite
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” We call It forth to clothe
you in Its Invincible Protection; in Its All-powerful
Self-control; in Its All-powerful Joy and Happiness
to enfold you this hour; that you may carry it
throughout the New Year, unto your Victory and
even the Ascension.
May I remind you again that when you call forth
your Presence, anything—even the Ascension, is pos­
sible for you to attain. Who shall say, in the outer
world, what is the Power of your Presence to act
in a given moment, when your human has receded
enough? This is the Truth which is before you. You
have made earnest call for many months. Do you
think that can go on, without having gained a power­
ful momentum? Then to-day, who shall say, I repeat
it again, what your Presence can do for you on a
moment’s notice. In a moment, when great Joy,
Serenity and Harmony fill your Being, who shall say
what your “ Mighty I AM Presence” will do for you?
Do not limit It I plead with you. Feel always: any
moment, your “ Mighty I AM Presence” may sweep
into action and perform the most Wonderful Service
for you. This is true. It can do it. I cannot say to you,
when It shall; but I do say to you with all Power, all
Truth, that your Presence is not limited in any sense,
when your earnest sincere call has gone forth; if you
will keep your feelings harmonized and keep using
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 13
the Violet Consuming Flame, so all past accumula­
tions are kept dissolved within your Tube of Light.
Behold that Chart! See that Tube of Light, which
is really about every one of you. If you keep discord
dissolved within that Tube of Light, by the use of
the Violet Consuming Flame to annihilate all past
discord and creations—then, who shall say what
moment your Presence will sweep into action, as it
did with this good brother; and render a Service
transcendent beyond description. I want you to feel
this! to know it is every bit true; and that it is possible
for every one of you. There is no limitation to the
action of your Presence.
Oh beloved ones, the Glory that fills this room
to-night, ought almost to lift all now into their
Ascension by Its Great Love, Its Great Light, Its
Great Substance, Its Great Power. Precious ones, will
you feel that everything We try to do and to which
We call your attention is for obedience, help and
assistance and is always done with the kindest Love
in the world? It is because We Love you so much, that
We offer correction through which you may be free.
I want you to just realize, Oh precious ones, this
beloved Messenger has been willing to write by the
hour (autographing books) to convey My Radiance
to you for your Assistance. To-night, he wrote for
two hours without cessation. Again, I marvel at what
these Beloved Ones are able to do; how they are able
i4 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
to govern the flesh to do these things; all for their
Love of you. Oh, how deep their gratitude is for your
Love to them. We see all that. We do not just only
feel It, We see Its action in and for them. It is
beautiful, It is wonderful, It is magnificent, Oh
precious ones.
To-night, let us feel the Glory of God, the “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” in full action within each one of
you, glorifying, purifying, dissolving and cleansing
all past accumulation of whatever discord there has
been. Great Infinite “ I AM Presence” ! at the call of
these loved ones, by the use of Your Violet Consum­
ing Flame; consume all discord now and set these
loved ones Free. “ Mighty I AM Presence” of these
blessed ones who are gathered here! seize all dis­
cordantly qualified energy of these beloved ones, of
the past and present! dissolve and consume it in Thy
Violet Consuming Flame! set these loved ones free
now! When they go forth at the close of this class,
send them forth Free—
wholly Free—from every dis­
cordant activity in the world. Clothe them with Thy
Great Feeling of courage, strength, happiness and
Energy. See that they never lack for any of it. Then,
with Thy Great Commanding Directing Intelli­
gence, sweep them forward into the Victory and
Glory of God, the Mighty “ Light of God that never
fails.” This is Our Love and Wish for you for the
New Year.
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURS1
Eternal Light, Eternal Love, Eternal IV
enter into the feeling world now of every one
loved ones. God the “ Mighty I AM Pre
through their feeling, give them full Maste
Dominion. Send them forth Thy Mighty .
Suns of Light, to pour forth such a Radianct
where they move, that people are healed, 1
prospered and enlightened everywhere theii
ance goes.
Oh “ Mighty I AM Presence” and Great I
Ascended Masters, glorify the “ I AM ” St
everywhere they move with such great Love,
harmony and kindliness that people will turn
at them in wonder. Such is the privilege of
AM ” Students throughout the world.
“ Mighty I AM Presence” guard these Chile
Light and give Us the opportunity to give all
ance that We love to give, to bless, to prosp
set them free. Glorify them now!
The Blessings of the Combined Ascended L
upon our two beloved ones (Don and Mai
May your path be one of happiness and the ‘
of God” victorious everywhere.
I extend to you all, and the students every
throughout the United States and the world, th
bined Love and Assistance of the Great Host
cended Masters, the Legion of Light and the i
of Blue Lightning, to act with full Power thi
i6 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
out this year for your happiness, comfort, prosperity
and blessing. T ry to accept this in the fulness of your
feeling and let the Mighty Law operate in your world.
In the fulness of My Heart, I Love you, I Love
you, I Love you, unto your Ascension and may that
Love lift you quickly into your Freedom and As­
cension.
T H E G O D M E R U ’ S D I S C O U R S E
ROGERS’ 1 0 0 % GROUP
JANUARY 21, 1937.
M
Y CH ILD REN of the Light, in your song
to-night acknowledging the Freedom of
America, you brought the release of a
Great Cosmic Power. As My Focus of Activity is in
South America, so do I join in the Freedom of the
Americas and the world.
Children of the Light, be forever certain and re­
minded by the Great Host of Ascended Masters, of
the majestic privileges you have in rendering a serv­
ice to the great mass, unknown in the history of man­
kind. A few have had this privilege, but you to-day
are Children of the Light from many civilizations
in which you have lived—sometimes higher, some­
times not so high. Yet, in this embodiment you enter
into the culmination, the balancing, of that which
your Inner Light has sought in every embodiment.
To-night, there is one in your city from South
America, whom I have been watching for some time.
As you may have observed, We never lose an op­
portunity to watch the expansion of the Light in
every one of the beloved Children of the Light; until
their Light expands to the point where We may give
17
i 8 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
Assistance to quicken It into the fulness of Its Mighty
Glory; that the individual may become a Blazing
Sun of Light wherever he moves, and that We may
envelope such an one and pour forth a Mighty Radi­
ance.
Precious ones of the Light, Oh that you might
fully, quickly, realize that you, even in the present
state of the expansion of your Light, can become a
Blazing Sun of Light wherever you move!
To our Beloved Children of the Light who are
soon to go to Norway, We thank you for carrying the
Light there. Remember you are rendering a tran­
scendent service. We watch the blessed ones going
here and there, and those who stand so loyally to this
Instruction which Saint Germain has brought forth.
Great will be that blessing to them. See how quickly
everything comes into Divine Order and is so sus­
tained!
Watch! Be alert, Oh Precious Children of the
Light! Silence every discord and inharmony that
attempts to find expression in your world, either
through yourself or outside. Then, you will find
great calm, peace and serenity filling your world,
filling your heart, until when you call there will
quickly come the answer from the Presence. The
Messengers have pled with you to do this, for there
is the imperative need of harmony and stillness in
your feelings. Once you realize this, you will find
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 19
that in the stillness there will come always—quickly
and clearly—the answer required. It cannot fail! Oh
beloved ones! Do you think that your Presence, the
Governor of the Universe, could fail? Do you not
see how incredible such a thing would be and that it
is only the human concept which longer prevents
you from entering quickly into the Freedom which
the Presence is?
Believe, Oh precious ones, the experiences of this
good brother on Mount Shasta where the Light de­
scended rendering a service so great! There is not
one in this room—and this is no exaggeration—there
is not one in this room, through whom that same
service might not be rendered. I tell you, precious
ones, your Presence is not limited to Its Activity in
and through you, except by your feeling world. If
you will feel the Full Authority and Power of your
Presence, and then just be still; you will quickly find,
that this Presence is a never failing release of all
that is required.
The happiness within your feeling is the great
Golden Key which the Light of your Being turns
and the door opens into your Freedom. In the Pres­
ence is all you require, not yet possibly in outer
manifested form; but the pattern or idea, the Intel­
ligence for its perfect manifestation in any required
form is there; within the conscious acceptance of
your Presence into your feeling world.
20 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
We wish all might feel this so clearly, so freely.
Now, during the remainder of the time that I am
speaking to you, because We always endeavor to
render at least one Service during a given period,
will you not feel with Me everything within your
being that has bound or limited you let go? I say:
“All human creation that has limited or bound these
Children of Light, L E T GO! All human creation
that has limited or bound these Children of Light,
L E T GO NOW ! and be replaced by the full Power
and Perfection of their “ Mighty I AM Presence”—
in full Power and Action! We accept this in the full
Power of Its Activity, for every blessed one and qualify
It to be eternally sustained in this Mighty Activity.
Please, in your mental and feeling world, accept that
this human creation is fully silenced.
From each Great Focus of Light in the atmosphere
of earth there are being released Mighty Currents of
Energy to help mankind set themselves free. One
comes from that Mighty Ancient Focus in South
America, the Great Province of Peru, which once
knew such Great Light in its outward expression. The
Great Light, Oh beloved ones, is still there and ere
long will stream forth in three Great Rivers of Light.
The world, in spite of its appearance, is being bathed
in the Glory of God, the “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
and ere long hundreds of thousands will know their
“ Mighty I AM Presence.”
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 21
In Norway, We once met many of those Great
Beings of Light whose Province it is to assist the
children of earth. We, seeing that this Knowledge
of the “ I AM ” is reaching so near Our Great Focus
once held there, I take this opportunity to thank
those who will go forth and expand It to those
people. In their quiet of the past months, I want
them to know it has been for the building up of
Energy to go forth in this service. May this blessed
trinity rejoice.
I wish to-night, that I might talk heart to heart
with each one of you and cause you to feel My Heart
throb, in that which I know is being quickened into
action for you. As Beloved Saint Germain’s Joy has
been so great recently, so too are We feeling and
pouring out to you Our Joy, that you have the
simplicity of expression which brings such majestic
action. In the simple words: “ The Power of your
Attention,” do you not see, Oh precious ones, that
it is the simplicity of thought and expression which
brings the great release of the powers of Freedom?
Only in the complication of expression is the Truth
so often hidden. Ever shall Saint Germain be blessed
for bringing this Knowledge of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence” forth in such simple language, that all may
understand and apply It. So, We are blessing Him as
greatly as you are for that Great, Great Service He
has rendered.
28 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
You know sometimes you are not always obedient.
Sometimes We are not, in this way: Saint Germain
has asked, that We refrain from commending Him.
Chananda said last night to Saint Germain: “ I Am
sorry to disappoint you, but I have got to do it.” So
you see, We too are sometimes disobedient, but We
too call on the Law of Forgiveness and try to do
better the next time. So will you not feel with Us
such great joy and happiness? Could you conceive
of anything that would give Us such Great Happi­
ness, as to see the expansion of your Light and the
Freedom that awaits you so near at hand? Oh, it is
no longer a long drawn out activity. Just forget that
part of it! It is not long any more. Just rejoice, Oh
with so great a rejoicing, in every day calling the
Power of your Mighty Presence into action to cleanse,
to purify your mind, body, world and your homes!
Oh those homes, Oh what a feeling! what a feeling
is in that word “ Home” ! Every home in the world
in outer manifestation should be a Sacred Altar of
God in Action. What a world! What a heaven on
earth that would be! Oh for that day—
do not feel
Me critical when I say this, but Oh for that day,
when once again mankind—notice this expression—
is unpiled from on top of each other. Then, they
will not worry whether their “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” is in someone’s else apartment. However, I
would advise all not to worry about that even in the
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 23
present state, let the Presence take care of it. You
may be sure the “ Mighty I AM Presence” is quite
able to take care of Itself.
We see from Our Great Field of Activity, the
vicinity of Lake Titicaca, from which one day shall
be released again Its Great Powers. Many of you will
see and know this of which I speak. Remember that
not so far from this Great Focus of Light there was
one of the greatest destructive activities on the earth.
There are caves in our Beloved Andes where one day,
there was broken up the greatest focus of darkness
on the earth. In that age, the final battle was won
between the Light and darkness. The Light of course
always wins, and so It will again in your Beloved
America; in Our Beloved America.
In your song to-night you touched deeply within
My Heart. Hence, Great is My Joy to have been
present with you and rendered a Service which it is
My Privilege to give. May I remind you, just at this
point, how great is this uplifting activity; how great
is your happiness, when you have rendered some serv­
ice to each other out here in your world of action?
Then, can you just imagine for a moment Our Great
Joy, when We find an opportunity, sometimes even
to Us wholly unexpected, to render a Service some­
times very far reaching? To-night it is far reaching,
from the Andes to the Sierras. Does that sound like
a long distance? Well it is not! That is the human
24 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
concept which says so. To Us who have forgotten, so
far as Our own Activity is concerned, that there is
time and space, is it any wonder We feel there is no
distance? It is possible for every one to become so
conscious of his “ Mighty I AM Presence,” that he has
no cognizance of time and space. To feel It or to be
so imbued with this Feeling, that you go through
the activities of a whole day as though it were an
hour or perhaps a few minutes, is joy unspeakable.
You know how often in your contemplation of the
Presence, one, two or three hours pass and it seems
but a few minutes? That is a slight intimation to
you of what it really means to transcend time and
space. The Great Cosmic Law is now permitting this
to be done more and more for the children of earth.
Thus it is hastening, quickening powerfully, your
own call for the Freedom of all mankind. You, who
are privileged to know your “ Mighty I AM Presence”
in this way, will find yourselves a Thousand Petaled
Lotus, Its Thousand Rays reaching out everywhere
to bless, to heal, to prosper and enlighten.
Our Precious Lotus, We thank and bless her for
her ceaseless service and her great happiness in that
service. I shall for One stand by and see that she
never lacks for energy and strength. Your Love is
Oh, so great pouring out to her, and I thank you
with deepest gratitude. Notice, dear hearts, how the
great earnest call to the “ Mighty I AM Presence”
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 25
dissolves and clears away all mist of human creation.
A great number of the earnest “ I AM ” Students are
fast surging forward into a Great Peace at first;
then, the feeling of their Mastery over their worlds;
then, the feeling of a Great Love and Kindliness
pouring out to all mankind which opens every door
before them into whatever activity is required.
Oh precious ones, do you not see that those who
have felt jealous and inharmonious, just fade out of
the Light; blaming others, when only within them­
selves is the fault? Oh precious ones, so many of these
are precious ones, whose Light is very great; but when
they become caught in that snare of jealousy, criti­
cism or condemnation, their own blessed door just
closes temporarily and they feel alone in the world.
I, with you to-night, call to the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” of each one of those precious ones, who have
for one reason or another allowed themselves to feel
unkind to the Messengers or critical: “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” dissolve once and forever every human
creation about them—cause and effect—and set those
blessed ones free in the Light, that they may have the
Freedom which is so near them.
If only mankind and the precious students could
see: that the moment a discordant feeling stirs within
them, it is just the sinister human creation which
would bind them longer in their limitations and
distress. Oh, that all might understand this and be
26 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
so firm in their refusal to speak or accept from others
any inharmonious expression! Then, their worlds
would quickly be at peace, filled with the Glory of
the Presence and the abundance of every good thing
they require for use, in the Service of the Light.
The God Tabor, the God Himalaya and the God
from the Swiss Alps join Me in pouring forth to­
night a four-fold Activity for your blessing, for your
Freedom. May I ask you to accept the fullness of It
to go forth and do Its Perfect Work for you?
We Love you, We Thank you, We Bless you.
S A I N T G E R M A I N ’ S D I S C O U R S E
ROGERS’ CLASS
JANUARY 2 4 , 1 9 3 7
M
Y PRECIO US Children of the Light, you
are My happy family. Justly I can claim
this, for great happiness has entered into
your world. It is building each day with a Glory and
certainty in the Onrush of the Light in, through you
and out into your world. Oh, it is so much greater
than yet you quite realize. To-night, while We have
a little heart to heart talk, will you not feel entering
into your being and world a Mighty Activity; first,
of the Quality of peace and rest; then of a Mighty
Activity so powerful that anything you have previ­
ously conceived would sink into insignificance in
comparison with it; for such is the Truth?
You have gained a power and momentum now,
in calling your “ Mighty I AM Presence” into action.
Will you allow Us to help you in this explanation
We offer? Precious ones, this is far more important
than you realize, for when We ask you to accept a
Quality, you are really accepting a Substance con­
taining that Quality, which makes it constantly active
within your Being and world.
I do not feel that it is necessary to longer prompt
27
28 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
you concerning any wrong activity; but rather to
encourage you, in the Strength of your Mighty I
AM Presence,” to flood your world with such a
Glory, that you wholly forget there is anything else.
We never prompt beyond a certain point; but you
will remember what was said to you in the Shrine
Class. Now, the Great Cosmic Law does permit Us
to fight some of your battles for you. I do not mean
by that, you are to lie down on the job. You must
make your application with firm determination;
firmer than ever for the next few months, but the
Great Cosmic Law does permit Us to give you As­
sistance; which We always stand ready to do, and
that is your great privilege at this time.
Never, now notice this, never in My Experience
have I, or any of the other Ascended Masters, known
such great Assistance to be given; or such an op­
portunity in the action of the Great Cosmic Law.
This means a very long time, for I have definitely
consciously ministered to bless all mankind during
many centuries. Let us take it from the seventy
thousand period. Seventy thousand years is a long
time according to the human sense; and yet you
blessed ones get discouraged in a few weeks or a few
months. Well, I will not say, I was not discouraged
during that time; but still I was able to surmount it,
if that was the case. So are you precious ones being
able to surmount anything that confronts you; be-
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 29
cause of your Presence which gives you Life and
beats your hearts.
Think of it, dear hearts, any moment that your
courage wavers just stop a moment, still yourself and
think: What nonsense! my “ Mighty I AM Presence”
is giving me Life with which I think and speak and
move about. Therefore, I give It the full Power to
take command in my world and produce Perfection.
Then, just become still and get your human self out
of the way a little more. Do you not see, that is
the principal thing required? If you could only make
the human be still and let the Presence flood forth
to do it, it would of Its own Volition do the things
you require and ask It to do. You must accept your
Presence. Use you ability and authority to call your
Presence into action to produce certain results. Then,
do you not see how very much greater are the results,
than if you did not know of your Presence?
Do you not see how tremendous your call to the
Presence is and what it means in the quickness of the
Freedom which you are seeking? That is the beauty
of it. Oh, the wonder of It, precious ones! to think,
you have come to know an Invincible Presence which
actually beats your heart. Whose Intelligence is lim­
itless, Whose Powers are limitless. Whose Powers are
Universal. It will answer your call—every detail of
it—
gladly, joyously and freely, only asking you one
thing: to keep your feelings harmonized enough so
3o ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
you do not re-qualify the Great Stream of powerful
Perfect Energy which is flowing in at your call, just
let It go forward into your world, to harmonize and
produce Its Perfection there.
It is wonderful you are getting this more power­
fully than ever in your Life to-night, and I rejoice
with you exceedingly. Your Presence cannot fail in
anything, Oh my precious ones. Your call—if you
were an invalid in bed—
your call is as powerful to
the Presence as one who is a muscular giant. Will
you not feel this Great Truth—this Mighty Truth?
If you could only whisper to your Presence your
need and then abide in it, It would rush Its Power
forth, to do that which was required.
Please, you precious ones here who have now
gained this momentum, do not ever feel that anyone
has any more power than you; to call your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” into action to flood your world with
Perfection; to solve any problem and release to you
the supply you require. Oh, it is the Truth. It is
only when you get discouraged that you momentarily
seem to shut the door; but even in that you really
do not. You have only just stayed the momentum a
little. Then again, as you enter into the Joy of that
Great Perfection of the Presence, again It will flood
forth, with Its great Joy of achievement. It is so very
beautiful.
I suppose, I am going to get a little sentimental
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 31
again to-night; but dear hearts, how We do love you
precious ones. When I see the great earnestness, your
great determination to have your Freedom, and the
wonderful application which you are making; I
just long to take you in My Arms and whisper in
your ear: “ Go on, My blessed one, you are gaining
your complete Victory.” Oh, many times, dear hearts,
when you least expect it, I do whisper in your feel­
ings that wonderful Courage and Strength.
There are those in this room to-night who will go
forth imbued with such Power and Strength, that
nothing will ever stop them again or even seem to.
They will go forward in the Strength of their “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” amplified by the Great Host of
Ascended Masters. They will feel forever sustained,
by the Mighty Glory of their “ I AM Presence,” as
the full commanding Activity, the Light of the world,
and Oh I rejoice.
There are many of you to whom I wish I might
speak individually; but you must feel My Feeling in
your hearts, because you are doing so wonderfully.
All of you are doing so wonderfully: When I see the
great change that has taken place in New York and
Philadelphia, it is wonderful. I see how the blessed
students of Cincinnati, and those various places in
the East where We were so recently, are standing like
Generals in the call to the Presence in this present
need (recent flood conditions). It is a very wonder-
32 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
ful thing, and I rejoice tremendously with them.
There are many things which I wish I might say
to you to-night; but you are not yet quite sufficiently
in position to do so. I say to you: glorious and wonder­
ful things are before you, who will stand deter­
minedly and call your Presence into action firmly.
To you the very Gates of Heaven, so-called, will
open.
If you could see, with the Inner True All-Seeing-
Eye, the difference in your city when the Messengers
first came here and now to-day from the Inner stand­
point, it is perhaps one of the most amazing things
anyone ever witnessed. You are transforming and
changing the whole city. You will see the evidence
of it in many, many ways. Go on, and on, and on, Oh
my precious ones, individually and in groups. Go
on with your wondrous Mighty Work.
I am just going to reverse the call with you to­
night. You have been calling for Us to come forth.
I say to you to-night, you could not want Us half as
much to come forth in the tangible, visible form as
We should love to come. That time is approaching,
and remember! We dare not come forth and re­
qualify powerfully your energy, until you have Self-
control enough not to requalify it! This is all that
stands between us. So keep on with your good work
and you will eventually find that you have complete
Self-control. Then, We can come forth the same as
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 33
the Messenger stands before you to-night, and will
he not be a happy chap then?
You know, precious ones, since the beginning of
the Shrine Class, We have drawn more closely into
your physical world of activity by far than ever be­
fore. Now that means a great deal.
I want you to all feel Our Indomitable Courage
within you which just sends you forward like a rocket
in all achievement, even in the small details of your
outer Life. Oh, just feel the glorious Joy from the
Presence, surging forth to do things and, when you
get there, all is right. Just feel It in the morning
when you get up. Hold your arms to the Presence
and say: “ Mighty I AM Presence,” I feel the Glory
of your Energy, Health and Strength today. Charge
them forth into my world; send them everywhere;
harmonize and bring everything into Perfect condi­
tion, and when I physically arrive see that all is pre­
pared. See that there is only joy, harmony and success­
ful achievement, when I arrive in physical form.”
Oh precious ones, if you would only do that, there
would not be a single thing touch you during the day.
It fills Me with such Joy, when I think of the
blessed Sindelar’s and their courage; how they have
gone forth putting out the Magazine so beautifully
and wonderfully; standing against a great avalanche.
I see the blessed Rogers’ who have stood, pouring
forth so great a Love that they cannot get places large
34 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
enough to hold the people. I thank and bless the many
Group Leaders, the blessed Ratana, Stanley and the
blessed Frank Lanning; all those blessed ones, who
have their Groups and are having such joy in drawing
them together. Oh, it is so wonderful. We bless all
the Group Leaders who are sincere everywhere.
They are all doing a wonderful work and We re­
joice so greatly in it.
Let Me remind you, because it is so wonderful,
and you must not mind if We do remind you of
this point often; because as you near it, Oh, what tre­
mendous things it means in your Life; to think, when
you have served the Light enough, the Light turns
and serves you. Is that not one of the most wonderful
things in all the Universe? It has only required a
short time in your conscious call to your Presence;
but suppose it were two years; suppose it were
five; suppose it were ten, that it were necessary for
you to call your Presence into action to gain the
point where in your service to the Light, It turns
and begins to serve you. Is it not worth every effort
the human being can make, to reach this point? So
many are nearing it.
Remember in your earnest call, that the Law of
your Being is: being the creator of the discord and
limitations in the outer world, you must through
Self-conscious call to the Presence dissolve and con­
sume it. When you have made enough application,
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 35
you come to a certain point—now notice this point
to-night—you come to the point where the Ascended
Masters say: “ You have fought the battle up to this
time, now We shall take a hand and fight the battle
for you.” Think of it! Do you fully comprehend,
precious ones, what that means? It means such As­
sistance as the average individual does not compre­
hend its importance to them as yet. Remember, the
power of your attention, precious ones!
This is one reason why I call your attention in
these heart to heart talks to these certain things;
because when your attention is upon a thing, then
the thing can be fully accomplished; but how can
you know a thing if your attention is not upon it?
Do you not see? In the outer world, you cannot know
a thing until your attention is upon it. You cannot
even become aware of it; because if your attention
is not upon it, even the intellect will sidetrack the
feeling; even though what you want is trying to get
through your feeling. Your intellect will say: “ Oh
that is something else.”
It is marvelous, precious ones, to realize and watch
your feelings to see what is accurate and what is not.
Finally, you will find that you will be able to recog­
nize the accurate promptings from the Presence, just
as definitely as you would distinguish a blue pencil
from a white one. It is training, precious ones, that
you need and is what you are going through. You
g 6 ASCENDED M ASTER DISCOURSES
are getting this training to make you alert to the In­
ner promptings of the Presence, through your Higher
Mental Body; making you quick and alert by Its
action through the Inner Wondrous Prompting.
This good brother rejoices in this one thing, per­
haps more than any particular thing; for there are
times when some outer thing requires attention, and
yet in the midst of it the great Inner Power begins
to surge forth. Then, he can do more in one day
than he could ordinarily do in a week. It is a joyful
wonderful thing to feel the Power surge through
with this speed and do everything—not a single move
out of place, until many things are accomplished.
Is that not wonderful? It can be just the same with
all you precious ones. This is why We say: call your
“ Mighty I AM Presence” into action to make you
alert to this prompting and feel always ready and
alert.
Oh, precious ones, do not keep your system too
full of food. Beloved ones, would you actually be­
lieve Me when I say: that most of the “ I AM ” Stu­
dents are still eating twice as much as they need?
Actually it is true. You might think I have been
around sometimes. I might have been, and it is not
eavesdropping either; but Our Love is so great for
you, dear hearts, that We want to give every one all
the Freedom We can, and help you in the quickest
manner possible. I do not mean you should starve
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 37
yourselves, that would be a great extreme, but do
not continue to eat, dear hearts, until you feel un­
comfortable. Just stop a little before that. You know,
I have recently been thinking that I shall have to take
this good brother in hand too.
Do you know this is a thing that does happen
many times? You go into an atmosphere where people
are very hungry and you will take on the same feel­
ing, if you do not watch out and guard against it.
Now believe it or not, that is true! and is why many
people who are sensitive eat more than they really
want. Watch out for this feeling, when you are eating
where there are a great number of people in Cafe­
terias and places of that kind. In these places, some
of the people may not have had so much to eat for a
few days. When they come in and you happen to touch
their atmosphere—you, who are sensitive—might
easily take on that feeling. Then, when you go out
you wonder why you ate so much. Do you see?
I tell you, precious ones, once you understand how
to guard yourself against all human suggestions, you
will feel a Freedom indescribable; for it is one of the
most wonderful things in the world.
Do you not see, precious ones, you are moving in
an atmosphere charged dynamically with human sug­
gestions of every conceivable description? If you do
not call the Presence to hold Its Guard about you,
the human feeling rides in and qualifies you and
38 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
your world with its activity. I am only mentioning
this one thing to-night; but there are dozens of
things—feelings of mankind—
which you will register,
if you do not stand guard and refuse acceptance to
all human feelings. Unless you call your Presence to
stand guard, you will, at least temporarily, be in­
clined to carry them out. It is the same thing, dear
hearts, with anger, with irritation, with sex condi­
tions or whatever it is.
For instance, you go into the street-car and sit
down by one whose idea is charged with one of those
things. If you do not refuse acceptance and call your
Presence to protect you, you will take on that feeling
and think it is your own. This is why many people
find such difficulty in correcting and dissolving the
sex desire; because they come into the atmosphere of
people in which that feeling is so heavily charged;
and they begin to accept it into their feelings un­
knowingly. Outwardly, there may be nothing in the
individual that would indicate it; but the feeling is
acting just the same.
Oh dear hearts, I tell you, “ I AM” Students watch
your feelings! I tell you beloved “ I AM” Students
do not go to any other “ I AM” Student with the
feeling of sex desire in your being, as you value your
progress. That thing has gone on among some of
the students. Watch out, dear hearts, that those do
not come into your midst, who are not especially
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 39
interested in the “ I A M ” ; but think they see an
opportunity to get their claws upon the students. I
warn you!
A student that will go into the home of another
and offer sex suggestions to anyone there, is not fit
to be called an “ I A M ” Student and We know all
that is going on! I tell you precious ones, your day
is short! Do not allow those things to govern you
longer. If you are determined to gratify your sex
in your own home, that is your own business; but do
not go to any other “ I A M ” Student with an atmos­
phere charged with that desire; and either through
feeling or otherwise offer that suggestion.
I am prompting you because of so great a Love.
You cannot yet possibly understand how We know
all that is going on in your feeling world. We have
to, dear hearts! How could We help you if we did
not? Do you think you can be drawn into Our Radia­
tion and We not know what is going on in your
mental and feeling world? It is impossible, dear
hearts! We do not seek it, but when you are seeking
the Light, Our Radiation and Assistance, We are
compelled to know what is in your feeling; not with
the slightest sense of criticism or condemnation; only
in loving Kindness to offer Our Assistance that We
may help you to be free.
Oh beloved ones, I have seen some of our blessed
students—a few only—who have been so earnest, have
4o ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
expressed and claimed the Great Blessing that they
have received from this “ I AM” Work; and then have
receded into the extreme sex gratification again. I
want to awaken them to what they are doing, for
it just deprives them and shuts the door of Light
before them. God, the “ Mighty I AM Presence” help
them and set them free!
To-night, Oh my loved ones, it is just like We
were sitting in My Home with all you precious ones
around Me; and We were just talking in this heart
to heart manner; just as though I were answering
the many questions besetting you. I feel just like
that to-night in the great Love which goes out, en­
folding you, for it enables Me to prompt you in these
things. Know, it is all in such great loving Kindness.
My precious ones, you are all very dear, so dear
to Our hearts. The Blessed Nada, the Beloved Master
Jesus, the Great Divine Director, Chananda, Leto
and Lanto all wish to convey Their Love and Bless­
ings to you to-night. It is just as though you were
together in Their midst listening to Them. Will you
not accept this Their Blessing and Radiation in your
feeling world; into your mental world; into your
outer world of activity; and let Its Great Radiation
go forth, to give you whatever Assistance is required?
In the great stillness of this wondrously charged
atmosphere, is that of which you have often heard
and yet mankind has so little comprehended: “ In the
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 41
Great Silence or Stillness is God’s Greatest Activity.”
As you have been so sweet and kind to give Me your
attention to-night, during this stillness of the outer
there has flowed into your beings, Our Wondrous
Substance which will become an eternally active
Presence within and for you. When you would lack
in courage, It will assert Itself and take you forward;
when you feel a little lack of energy, then It will
come into action and stimulate you, to make your
call and have Its Mighty Energy flow through.
Precious ones, believe Me to-night, when I say
there is not one of you in this room but who can raise
his hands to the Presence every morning when you
get up—not later than eight o’clock—
and through
your call to the Presence charge your mind and
body with Its Mighty Strength, Courage, Health and
Energy. Dear hearts, if there has been the slightest
intimation of any disturbance, say: “ Mighty I AM
Presence, pass your Violet Consuming Flame through
my mental and feeling body; sweep out and dissolve
all imperfection. Then pour Your Mighty Currents
through, filling my mind and body with your Mighty
Health, Strength and Buoyancy.” Oh my precious
ones, you can have perfect health and happiness,
joyous strength and energy filling your body every
day, if you will. If the first time you do not feel the
full result, go right on, and on and on, and suddenly
you will find when you make the call, the energy will
42 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
flow in and fill your body tremendously. You will
not have to make the call a second time that day.
Notice, you might easily and justly ask Me: “ Why
do I have to make the call each day”? Because, preci­
ous ones, you are moving in a seething vortex of
discordant feeling and suggestion from mankind;
and you must keep calling to the Presence, until you
have gained the momentum to be your sustained pro­
tection. Therefore, you must keep on calling until
your momentum becomes so great it acts involun­
tarily. Even then, until you have made the Ascension,
it would be far better to continue to make your call
every day, than to rest on the Presence and not make
it. Can you not make that effort at least? You see the
inclination of all human beings, dear hearts, is to
“ let George do it.” I am sure you all agree with
Me, that all have been inclined to let someone else
do it, because, “ I don’t feel quite like it to-day.”
That is just the time, dear hearts, you want to rise
up and say: “ Here, you cannot do this thing.”
Now I tell you frankly when you feel the slightest
touch of cold, rise up and say in the full conscious­
ness of your Presence: “ I will not have that! ‘Mighty
I AM Presence’ take it out of me-cause and effect!
fill me with your health, strength and energy and
stop this nonsense. Dear hearts, you can dismiss
it in just a few minutes. If you do this a few times,
you would stop that habit from acting in you, and
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 43
you would feel your ability to control such conditions
completely. You will dismiss it at once and not have
to go through several days of such experience.
Oh I tell you, dear hearts, My rejoicing is tre­
mendous, because I know you are gaining the full
consciousness of this. I know your feeling and you
must understand you can do these things. You are
shutting out these things with tremendously greater
firmness and preventing them from acting in your
world. It was the sinister thing that started this sug­
gestion of flu among mankind. It was nothing else
in the world. It is nonsense, dear hearts, do not accept
it into your world; just because that silly suggestion
starts and people succumb to it. Do you not see, it is
the power of suggestion that gets them down and
then treads upon them? Do not do it.
In this good brother’s practice, I have seen him
during those years of healing, go to patients who
thought they were so ill they could not raise their
heads. In a half an hour, they would be up and
dressed. Nothing in the world was the matter with
those people, but the suggestion which had been
driven into their consciousness. As soon as he re­
moved that, they were all right. This is exactly what
takes place with more than seventy-five percent of
the conditions mankind meets. It is but suggestion.
If mankind understood how to be quickly alert and
on the defense, it could not register in the feeling.
44 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
This is why to-night, I want to prompt you dear
“ I AM ” Students. I see there are several places where
some of the Groups have accepted the idea that they
have the flu. Well they have not! Just as though an
“ I AM ” Student could have the flu. If they accept it,
I do not! and I know I am stronger than they are.
I tell you and those blessed ones everywhere in your
Groups or among your friends whom you meet,
kindly try to prompt them to stand on guard against
these things.
Now to-night, precious ones, until We have the
opportunity to speak to you again, know that Our
Love, Blessing and Light enfold you always. When
there is an earnest need, send forth your call and
Help will come at once. You see when you call to
your ‘‘Mighty I AM Presence,” if outer assistance is
required it always goes forth. Call to your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” first, then the Great Host of As­
cended Masters, if you feel it is necessary and Help
will come. Do not accept anything else; but best of
all, stand guard every morning; draw those Mighty
Currents of health in to fill your body. Call the
Presence to draw around you the Mighty Tube of
Light, as an Invincible Protection, to repell every­
thing unlike the Perfection which It is. Then go
forth in your activity of the day a wholly free, happy,
blessed joyous Being, filled with the Glory of the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” and Ascended Masters and
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 45
just know, We are holding your hands all the time;
for in Our Love with which We enfold you, We are
holding your hands all the time until you are free.
The Love, Blessing and Light of the Great Host
of Ascended Ones, the Legion of Light and the
Great Cosmic Beings enfold you always unto your
Ascension. I thank you.
S A I N T G E R M A I N ’ S D I S C O U R S E
SAN FRANCISCO CLASS
FEBRUARY 1 3 , 1 9 3 7
T E R Our Experience of more than two years,
in the earnest endeavor to convey to you
the Understanding of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence” which is your Freedom, it is most gratify­
ing indeed, Oh beloved ones, to see the expansion
of the Light within your hearts and of all the stu­
dents throughout America and the world. Again, I
say, it is most gratifying to find those books have
found their way into all parts of the world, carrying
their Light and their Freedom to all points of the
We have been with you during the past ten days,
and have with the greatest of Joy felt the loving
response within your hearts. We, too, rejoice exceed­
ingly. I say this, that you may know It is only the
beginning of the great Joy, the great Light, the great
Freedom which is yours. So many have entered into
It sufficiently, to know there is really no limit to that
which they may attain. I say to you to-night—and I
try to put into it all the Love of My Being—I con­
gratulate you blessed ones in San Francisco on the
expansion of your Light, in spite of the seeming
globe.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 47
chaos which at times seemed to be in your midst.
Yet, steadily and surely have you gone forward, in
the greater and greater expansion and Perfection of
your Presence of Life, which is your “ Mighty I AM .”
In your future work here, precious ones, remember
that We are always pouring forth Our Radiance to
you, where there is harmony; but We cannot do it
where there is not. To those, who refuse to give
obedience to the simple things We ask, We cannot
give Our Radiance; for without obedience nothing
can be accomplished. Furthermore, We will not re­
lease great volumes of energy into the use of any
one, unless We are sure they will not re-qualify it
with anger, criticism, hatred or any of those qualities
which are destructive.
One day, you shall know how great Our Love is
for you and how earnestly We watch to guard every­
where. When the beloved Messengers are prompted
to warn and guard you, please do not feel that they
are interfering with your free will at any time. Such
is not the case, but as Messengers they must convey
the Truth. Always just remember, their Love is very,
very great for you, and they will stand by always to
give assistance. Oh, beloved ones of the Light, your
very heart-beat is a throb of delight from your
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” giving you Life! Life!
Life! more, and more, and more Life! As you gain
in your understanding and feel your authority to
48 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
call forth this Great Intelligent Energy from your
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” watch! stand guard! that
you do not requalify it.
I am sure in this class as never before, you feel
the greater and greater Reality of this privilege which
is yours; in receiving from your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” Its limitless Intelligence, limitless Energy
and greater and greater strength, more and more
perfect health. I say to you with full assurance that
no one can fail, if he has understood refusing ac­
ceptance of discordant appearances and conditions;
and will earnestly call the Presence into action. All
must have Perfect Health. It is the Law of your be­
ing, precious ones, no matter what the conditions
are, what the X-ray shows in anyone’s body. The
Presence releases those Mighty Currents of Energy
in and through the body and sweeps out every im­
perfection that is there. Will you accept it? Will you
believe it? Let the Power flow through, to bring you
Perfect Health! It is essential. If you are constantly
harassed by the feeling of pain and distress in the
body, you cannot give your fullest attention to the
Presence, so that It releases the greatest volume.
Therefore, sometimes one needs encouragement or
strength and I trust there is no “ I AM” Student, who
comes under this Radiation, that will not willingly,
joyously give that.
I say to all of you beloved students, never allow
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCO URSES 49
yourselves to be impatient with those who come to
you for advice or help. Do not ever answer them
impatiently and do not ever refuse help. Do not
ever say to one who comes to you: “ You have an ‘I
AM Presence,’ why do you not stand by It”? That
would be unkind. You do not know the forces play­
ing upon that one which might have discouraged
him. Instead, place your hand about that one’s
shoulder and say: “ My brother or my sister, my hand
is in yours in the strength of my ‘Mighty I AM
Presence,’ until you have won your Victory. Go
forth, call your ‘Mighty I AM Presence’ into action
and I will help you.” Send them forth feeling that
you are interested in their Victory.
We must know all that is going on, precious hearts,
in your lives. Do you know that? Having entered into
the Radiance of your “ Mighty I AM Presence” in this
Knowledge which I have brought forth, you invite
Us to observe your world, otherwise We cannot help.
Therefore, if We see you are impatient, We try to
pour forth the Radiation of Kindliness which will
give you patience and strength to assist. Do not ever
say anything or allow a feeling to go forth that would
be discouraging.
Remember! allow no one to come into your midst
individually or collectively who breathes a word of
discord or condemnation of This Work. If you do,
you will close the door. We do not wish you to do
5o ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
that, but We cannot prevent you; for every one under
this Radiation is wholly given his free will to choose
and always shall. We, with all the Love and Joy of
Our Hearts, want to give you Freedom; but you must
make your call to your “ Mighty I AM Presence” and
stand by it.
Then you give Us the opportunity to, through
your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” intensify all activ­
ities; until you have the courage, strength and power
to resist all outer suggestions, which would deprive
you or detain you from your full Victory. Will you
not stand so firm by your “ Mighty I AM Presence”
and in It, that We can always give the Assistance re­
quired, whether it is health, strength, courage or
Directing Intelligence?
I say to you, all of you precious ones here: Please
do not accept, that you cannot receive clear Directing
Intelligence from your Presence. I have a great reason
for saying this to you. There have been quite a
number of students, who yet do not feel that they
can call their Presence into action and receive the
direction clear enough to be sure. Now precious
ones, that is only because knowingly or unknowingly
there has been some anxiety within you which has
been disturbing you—disturbing the vibratory action
of your being, or your nervous system.
Therefore, if you will be still and say to your
Presence: “ Mighty I AM Presence! You help me to
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 51
be still, so that Your Directing Intelligent Energy
can get through; make me understand—through my
feeling or in some manner—make me feel clearly
what I should do.” As you do this, you will find in
some manner directly what is the thing to do; but
watch out! Be sure you do not in the feeling, first
begin to doubt that you are going to have the Di­
recting Intelligence from your ‘‘I AM Presence.”
If you do, you start that vibratory action which is
discouraging, through your feelings before you
actually know it in the intellect. That feeling of
yours is rather an unruly fellow, but you can govern
it—The Presence will.
This time in the class, Oh precious ones, so much
has been accomplished. I rejoice with all my heart
and I congratulate you. You will find that you will
all go forth in such a great calm, confidence and Vic­
tory from to-night, as you have not thought possible
to be attained in your outer activity. We have
offered to hold your hands until the Victory. May
We not do it? May We not hold your hands until
you are free, wholly free from, all limitations, feeling
clearly, powerfully, definitely your Victory? We
shall be so happy to do it—always through the Radi­
ation of your Wondrous Presence. Do you not under­
stand that We, as Ascended Beings, are One with the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” of you who are not yet
ascended; and that is how We must know all about
52 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
you, in order to give you the Assistance which is
necessary?
It is so very wonderful, you must get My Feeling.
With such rejoicing, I see how you have become
able to still yourselves. In this class, such a Radiance
has poured forth, although you are not yet aware of
it, but in a small way. Do you think, precious ones,
that the Divine Director would have come here in
your midst, pouring forth these Great Currents of
Energy into your minds and bodies, if He had not
seen that you were able to still yourselves enough,
to have the full Benefit of it? His Great Wisdom
would not do that unless it was time, was right, was
permanent. So I congratulate you of San Francisco
and those visiting here, that you called your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” into action which made the way
open and clear for you to be here. That in itself is a
great Victory. I wish you might see in the atmosphere
of mankind how many blessed ones have momentarily
had good intent, but been sidetracked from the Radi­
ation by some vicious suggestion. If you saw the
number who had been turned aside from this class by
the vicious suggestion from others, in which there
was no Truth, you would be surprised. If that had not
been the case, this lovely blessed place could not
nearly have held them. The tragedy is theirs. You,
who have had the strength to come in spite of all
opposition, have the Victory.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 53
Oh, that all mankind might understand, how all
progress is due to their own initiative. You must
choose, precious ones. I speak to all mankind—into
their mental and feeling world—you not only must,
but you are compelled to choose before the greater
energy and power will be released; to come into your
world and produce the Perfection which you wish.
If you are sitting on the fence you will not get much
help, but when you straighten up your spine and
say: “ Mighty I AM Presence! I am one hundred
percent or one thousand percent with You! release
Your Mighty Powers into action to free me and my
world” ! Do you think for one moment that Its
Energy will not come forth? Let Me tell you It will
and with no uncertainty; but if there is wavering
in your consciousness and doubt, do you not see that
is requalifying the energy and it cannot do for you
what it should, and what you would like to have it
do? Now many times, those things are acting in the
feeling of mankind, mostly unconsciously. The in­
dividual is not outwardly aware of it; but if you will
call your Presence into action, It will correct the
condition.
I say to those who have been here for the first
time: “ It does not matter what your doubts might be,
if you would call your Presence into action three
times daily, earnestly for five minutes, inside of ten
days you would have the evidence in your own ex-
54 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
perience so strong that nothing could turn you aside.”
The condition is, owing to the mass creation about
mankind; that those who are not anchored, unknow­
ingly listen to the falsehood about them which even
turns them temporarily aside. Will you not explain
this, Oh precious students, to those you contact who
are partially interested? Because mankind does not
understand the laws and forces acting upon them,
they are often deprived of the great Freedom, Joy
and Blessing which is waiting for them.
The Radiance in this class has surpassed anything
so far and I want you, precious ones, to know that.
In the fulness of My Love, I say to you, if you wish
Us to come twice a year—this year and next—We will
come to you. I say for your blessing and Freedom,
do not be worried about anything injuring This
Work. All the vicious gossip there is does not amount
to anything. Those unfortunate individuals are but
destroying themselves! They are not injuring you
nor This Work. They cannot do it, but the pitiful
thing is, that they still think they can.
I want to say to our blessed friends, the Christian
Scientists: in their churches, I am amazed that people
who pretend to pour forth Love, would turn in vi­
ciousness against this Love, this Radiation of the
Light and the Understanding of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” which is the Source of all Life. This is the
first time I have spoken My Opinion; but I say to-day
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 55
and you may carry My Word to them: “ It is pitiful” !
I tell you frankly—and you may carry this to all
Christian Science churches throughout America and
the world: “ Unless they stop that, they will destroy
every church and its attendance which they now
have.” I say this in all Love and Kindness. I wish to
stop such a thing coming on; for great good has been
accomplished through Christian Science; but I tell
you frankly, every source, whether it is Unity, Chris­
tian Science or whatever it is, that attempts to bring
disgrace upon This Work or condemns or criticises
It, will fail utterly and their churches will be empty!
This Work opposes nothing in the world. It goes
on presenting this Wondrous Presence—the “ Mighty
I AM ”—which every human being on earth should
be delighted to know about and understand; and
because they have allowed suggestions to enter their
ranks and fear that this would empty their churches,
they have turned in many instances in vicious hatred
to the Messengers and This Work. God alone pity
them!
Unity has done the same thing, through the claw
of the sinister force which has entered into their
heart center. I say this to you in all kindness, dear
hearts. Watch! every source that has presented some
part of the Truth, which condemns This Work, will
fail utterly! because the Messengers have never con-
, demned any activity and never shall. They have pre-
56 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
sented this Mighty Law of the “ I AM Presence” in
their humble kindness and if people do not wish to
come into this Mighty Truth of the “ I AM ,” they
should not condemn It. I stated in the Shrine Class,
that the Messengers have carried forth bravely thus
far and, by their powerful dynamic application, have
held their own protection and carried the Work
forth; now then, We shall fight their battles and they
shall hold their peace.
I marvel at the individuals among mankind who
are too stubborn to believe the Mighty Truths re­
corded in “ Unveiled Mysteries” and “ The Magic
Presence.” We never—an Ascended Being will
never—use a destructive force; but mark what I tell
you, as described in “ Unveiled Mysteries,” the
Mighty Host of Ascended Masters draw the Wall of
Light and when the viciousness of the individual
strikes It, their own viciousness rebounds upon them
and they must handle it, if they can.
That is the Law of every one’s being. We do not
wish to harm any one; but We shall not allow the
Messengers to be harmed nor This Work. When
those within humanity have been willingly strong
enough to carry forth to a certain point, then the
Great Law sweeps in and takes a hand. So I say to you,
precious ones, We love the Christian Scientists, We
love all Unity, We love all mankind; but the vicious­
ness that comes in their ranks, shall not harm these
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 57
loved ones, neither shall it harm the students of the
Light! I say to you, beloved Cora Wickham, here in
San Francisco: “ My hand is in yours for your firm,
unyielding stand in bringing the Light of the
‘Mighty I AM Presence’ to your friends, the Chris­
tian Scientists. One day you cannot care for them all,
so many will come. Your loving heart and kind­
ness will render a transcendent service and is ren­
dering it.”
Every blessed one of the students here and Group
Leaders! I enfold you in My Love, but do not feel
inharmonious to each other. Whenever a feeling of
discord or inharmony comes from one student to
another or from one Group to the other; remember,
you can always know instantly, it is but a claw of the
sinister force driving in, trying to destroy the great
good you are doing.
Now you will notice, precious ones, the Messen­
gers fear nothing. They are wholly unconcerned
about all this silly criticism and falsehood which is
spread by individuals, because they are not per­
mitted to drive into This Heart Center of Light. I
want you to understand here in San Francisco, you
blessed ones, that We are back of you—the Great Host
of Ascended Masters—and one day, you will know
that We are even more real than you are. One day,
you will know that We are not an imagination of this
good brother. You will find that We are very Real,
58 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
and We can be very tangible, but yet still invisible.
Do not forget that!
Some of these people, who have tried to claim and
prove discrepancies in those marvelous books, will
one day cry out for mercy. Mark what I tell you! We
abide our time, but mark what I tell you! You may
spread it to the world: No person, place or thing shall
ever harm or destroy this work. It shall go on, until
every one of mankind knows this “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” and through It, all have their Freedom.
I say this to you to-night, for your strength, courage,
power and Freedom. To Us, the silly falsehood, con­
demnation and criticism is silly nonsense and has no
power.
Remember, precious ones! To every appearance
that is less than the Perfection of the Presence say:
“ You have no power” ! mean it in your feelings; and
you will have no trouble entering your world or
disturbing you. It is true, absolutely true, the appear­
ances or discordant forces in mankind have no power,
except the thought and feeling which goes into them
and feeds them with the Life of the individual.
Look! precious ones, in your recent airplane acci­
dents. Do you not see that from everything which
has such an appearance, a momentum goes forth?
If it had not been for the Decrees which the blessed
students of America have given, that thing would
have gained a momentum, until a dozen or more
I .
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 59
planes would have been destroyed. The sinister
force wants just such a thing to start, so mankind
may not be in close contact. I thank the Messengers
and the students for issuing the Decrees to protect
the Radio; because there has been a deliberate at­
tempt which would try to interfere with the Radio
in America and the world; but it shall not do it! I
tell you my precious ones, in your Mighty Decrees
giving this protection for various activities, you are
rendering a service that will go down through eter­
nity. Then one day, when you are farther progressed
in your Life, you will see the service rendered and
the great intense protection, which has been given
America and the great industries. Precious ones, you
have no idea how those marvelous Decrees have gone
forth, to solve these conditions of strikes throughout
America. Go on with your Decrees. Call the “Mighty
Presence” into action that they may never have an­
other strike. Call Divine Justice to take place between
the men and Capital—between so-called labor and
Capital. There is no labor! There is only one thing—a
Divine Service. Beloved ones, please feel this in your
outer activity of the world, and you will release your­
selves from the feeling of labor or bondage. Wherever
you are, whatever you are doing, you are serving this
Great “ I AM Presence” to your Freedom. T ry to feel
this, and let it take from you all feeling of being in the
bondage of labor.
6o ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
You heard what Mrs. Ballard, our beloved Mes­
senger, read you to-night of My Activities, which are
rather the directing of Great Currents of Great
Forces and Energy, than taking any part in the polit­
ical activity. So it is! but America shall go forward!
all official places shall be filled with the Power of
Divine Justice! and great harmonious activity shall
enter into America and hold its Dominion here.
Mark what I tell you!
Do not, I plead with you, longer give power to
appearances of anything! whether it is in the gov­
ernment or your individual Lives. Say to every ap­
pearance: “ You have no power! ‘Mighty I AM
Presence’ sweep into it! produce your Perfection and
hold your Dominion there—
your Mighty Directing
Intelligence.” My precious ones, you can render a
service unparalleled in the history of the world. Will
you not do it, for your Freedom and the Freedom of
mankind?
I rejoice in the strength and power, which is com­
ing within many of the students—that strength drawn
of the acceptance of the “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
which makes them a Mighty Pillar of Light, moving
through the world and spreading Its Radiance every­
where. So I congratulate every earnest student
throughout America and the world. I pour forth a
Mighty Radiance to them for strength, courage and
power to go forward victorious, in whatever their
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 61
choice of activity is; that they may fill the world with
the Beauty, Harmony and the Glory of the “ Mighty
I AM Presence” in action.
In the fulness of My Love I enfold you, Oh be­
loved students with My Courage, with My Strength,
with My Perfect Health, filling your minds and
bodies until there is not a vestige of anything but
Love and harmony there, if you will allow Me. We
have now gone into the Heart of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” the Ruler of the Universe! Let Us abide
there and let Its Heart act through these humble
forms; that they may become electrified into the ful­
ness of the Conquering Presence of the “ Mighty I
AM ” ! Stand forth in Its great calm serenity, realiz­
ing, feeling that God, the “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
is henceforth their Director, their Victory in what­
ever choice their service might be.
G R E A T D I V I N E D I R E C T O R ’ S
D I S C O U R S E
ROGERS’ 1 0 0 % GROUP
MARCH 18 , 1 9 3 7
B
ELOVED Students of My Heart, how I rejoice
. that I may be instrumental in expanding, or
' assisting to expand the Light within your
heart which is increasing so beautifully. Since you
took part in this Closed Group, the rapidity of the
expansion of your Light has been so marked, that I
hold My Hand up to you in gratefulness for the serv­
ice rendered. You will all know it is a rare privilege,
when you understand what this has meant in the
willingness with which you have joyously entered
into this service. It is the greatest accomplishment
so far. Many of you feel and know it in your feeling
world and rejoice.
Notice this, dear ones, all of you who have entered
into this Great Special Stream of Life and Energy;
I shall tell you what your willingness has done. In
entering into this Special Service, the Great Ones
from Venus, Who have been the vanguard of the
humanity of earth so many hundreds of thousands
of years, have accepted your service. Do you realize,
Oh beloved ones, what that means to our Beloved
62
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 63
Saint Germain? He saw and had the Courage to step
forth, assuring all of Us that there were those who
could carry this Message successfully; that it must
be done now or never, if the earth and its humanity
were to survive. Then, there had to be someone
found who could carry this Message, and it was
achieved. Now the Great Work has gone forth; and as
this good brother has said to you so many times; he
found that in your midst to-day there is an oppor­
tunity to render a service which only the Ascended
Masters yet fully understand. Your being willing to
serve joyously, has made you a part of that Great,
Great Light. Will you not feel to-night while I speak
to you, this Great Reality? You made yourselves Am­
bassadors of That Light and in It you have the privi­
lege of not only allowing, but calling forth the Light
of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” to spread Its Radi­
ance everywhere you move. Think what it means as
you move about among mankind!
Oh often, you move among conditions which are
so discordant, and yet that Radiance, even without a
spoken word, is going forth. Oh precious ones, you
cannot imagine how great It is. That Radiance is
going forth at your charged call—notice! your charged
call! because the momentum you gain from your
constant call to your “ Mighty I AM Presence” be­
comes a charged call, a charged activity, going forth
everywhere spreading Its Radiance.
64 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
I know you do not yet see this in its fulness, phys­
ically speaking, but I see that Radiance going forth
vividly, powerfully, clearly. Some of you would be
gratefully surprised and even astonished, to know
how clearly and powerfully your Radiance is going
forth from your human forms. To-night, I want to
give you My Encouragement, My Strength and
Energy to electrify you into the full feeling of the
immensity of the work which you are doing.
Oh, Beloved Ones of the Light, you have heard
so often why there is the need of your call to the
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” in order to give Us the
privilege of releasing the Power and amplifying your
earnest sincere efforts to go forth and do the work
required in the world—the outer as well as the mental
and feeling world of mankind. Your call is showing
its activity throughout the earth.
We hope ere long, if not before, by the time the
Messengers return from the East, We shall have some­
thing very wonderful to convey to you. It looks
today, as if We would. I hope with All My Heart
that We may be able to convey that to you which
We wish. Then your hearts will leap with joy un­
speakable, for having been a part of this Service.
The human creation of mankind has so bound
blessed humanity, that only now are they bursting
those binding chains of their own creation. They are
beginning to stand forth within the Great Light.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 65
To-day, among your wondrous business men of the
outer world, there is coming a great desire to stand
in and for the Light. As these blessed books have
gone forth spreading their Radiance and Truth, Oh
how many feel the Great Truth and Wonderful
Reality which they convey! This last issue of the
Magazine which has the Chart will spread over the
entire earth.
Blessed ones, great, great is your privilege in being
in the vanguard of this Service, which will one day
set America and the world free. It will one day bring
the longed-for condition upon earth, when all man­
kind shall be at peace and all struggle ceases. Oh,
can you not feel, even as I speak the Words, the Joy,
the Reality of living in such a world? It has existed
many times before and will exist again—this time
permanently for the earth. Is it not well worth every
effort which mankind can make, to once again find
that established on earth?
I want you to feel to-night My Great Love and
Gratitude to this Group who have rendered such
great Service. I speak to you individually for a
moment. Do you realize what your being willing to
serve really means? Individually, it is setting you free
with great speed. I plead with you, dear hearts, who
have not or do not quite feel your financial freedom
yet—Oh please, do not be discouraged. You cannot
fail to have your supply! Please believe Me when I
66 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
say this to you, for you are so near your Freedom. Go
on, and on, and on, calling your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence’’ into action; realizing that your Mighty Pres­
ence which gives you Life is the Treasure-house of the
Universe; your Treasure-house! to Whom you can
call and have what you require released to-night.
Everyone in this room, who has not yet been able to
feel this full Reality of your financial freedom, please
take advantage of this opportunity and allow Me to
assist you to have that full Feeling right now!
I call the “ Mighty I AM Presence” forth to dis­
solve every doubt and question in your feeling, of
your ability to call the Presence into action to have
this released right now. Please feel, as I speak to you,
the Power of My own Accomplishment; to enter into
your consciousness and world and give you My Feel­
ing, the True Feeling of your financial release now—
at once—and forever; that you may go forth from this
room to-night, Master of your financial world,
whether you have a cent in your pocket or not. Your
“ Mighty I AM Presence” holds the wealth of the
Universe ready to release into your hands; when once
you can remove the doubts, fears and unbeliefs in
your feeling, of the Power of your Presence to release
it into your hands and use. Your Presence governs all
channels in the world. Oh, please do not doubt and
let your human intellect cause you to feel the un­
reality of your Presence.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 67
Your Higher Mental Body, precious ones, which
knows the Perfection of the Presence and knows your
needs, will answer your every call and does answer it.
But watch out! that in your feeling world, there is
not a lurking doubt which is obstructing the way!
or the feeling of your inability to call your Presence
into action. It only requires your earnest sincere call!
Keep it up, until you have the Power of your Pres­
ence acting everywhere. There is nothing in the
world to stop it! It knows no resistance or interfer­
ence, and you shall have the Power and the Freedom
which It holds for you.
Please accept this to-night and let everyone of you
go forth from this room, filled with the Electrifying
Consciousness and Acceptance of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence”—your Treasure-house; releasing from this
moment, all the money you require through the
Power of Divine Love; whether it be direct or
through channels; to supply you and give you the
happiness and comfort which you require; to render
the service which your heart desires.
There is only one obstruction to the Perfection
which the Presence holds and that is in your Feeling
World. Remember what the Messenger has said to
you so many times. If your application is not produc­
ing the results you require, then say: “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” take out of my feeling world every single
thing that seems to obstruct the way and release your
68 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
Mighty Intelligent Energy to go forth and produce
these results. “ Mighty I AM Presence” see that this
is done now! What could stand before that Great and
Mighty Presence, the Governor of the Universe?
Feel it deeply to-night, while this opportunity is
here! Oh, blessed ones, feel it! feel it! feel it!
Beloved ones, it will be My Privilege to either be
present each night when this Group meets; or send
My Direct Radiance into the room, for this Special
Work which is being done; and for that Special Work
which I wish to do, with your permission, for each
one of you who has had the courage to step forth and
join this 100 percent Group. It is not that We love
others less, Oh not at all. We love all so greatly; but
you, who are willing to do this, are you not entitled
to a Special Service? Would you not give a Special
Service to one serving you, who was willing to comply
with the requirements? Do you not often give a bonus
to those who have served well and unusually? Then,
why should We not offer an added Service to those,
who are willing to comply with that, which We know,
blesses them beyond words to express? Therefore, it
is My Privilege, and I offer to give you a Special
Service and Assistance in this Group, because you
have been willing to do as We have requested.
We pour forth Our Radiance to all Groups who
are sincere; but in this it is Our Privilege to give a
Special Service. If I wanted to give you a white silk
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 69
handkerchief and someone else wanted to give you a
blue one, is it not My Privilege? So, I want you to feel
how really close We have become. Oh no!—no! We
are not away off somewhere any more. Oh no! We
are right here with you, holding your hands to your
Victory. Will you not let Us? You know, We cannot
go chasing you around to hold your hands; but We
are willing to hold them to your Victory.
Oh beloved ones, to-night your hearts are beating
with Mine, do you realize that? I am sure you do;
but just the same your hearts are beating with Mine
to-night. Will you feel it and ask your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” to qualify it eternally sustained for you?
(Silence) Have you thought, precious ones, how very
wonderful and marvelous has been this experience
to-night? Those two precious ones are voicing the
Great Truth over the Radio and in the song which
is going forth; and these two blessed brothers here
rendering this service. Had you thought how very
wonderful that is?
Oh, how very wonderful it is, precious ones, when
personalities and personal desires can be set aside
for the Great Service of the Light. One day, you shall
all know what those words mean. As the blessed ones
in the Staff have been willing to serve; and their fami­
lies have been willing to let them serve in so happy
and joyous a manner; is it not an unheard of thing
in the history of the world? Our blessed Mr. Crouse
70 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
is serving all joyously and wonderfully, while his
family is here. Our blessed Mary Ketcham from West
Palm Beach serving with such devotion and power.
Dear ones, do you not see? I but mention these things
to show you how wonderful it is, when we can set
aside personal desires for the Great Light. When
we do that, shortly we find things opening before us,
wherein a Great Service can be rendered.
To-day you blessed ones, who have outer work to
attend to also have this privilege, in the great un­
paralleled Service which you have, in issuing these
Decrees which have been going forth for mankind.
Do you see how no one is deprived of any good thing
when rendering a transcendent, marvelous Service
which is, from the human standpoint, indescribable?
It is possible for the human of every one of you to
be sufficiently dissolved, so you will feel the flood
of your “ Mighty I AM Presence” filling yourself and
your world. Oh the joy! for it is so like the experience
of this good brother, whose anxiety and fear was so
great in those earlier years. To-day, it does not exist,
and so it is with you.
Ere long, you will find that no appearance of limi­
tation or discord will have any effect whatever upon
you. You will just say to it: “ Oh run along, you have
had your day! Do not bother me.” Precious ones,
it is with a joyous dismissal of the human appear­
ances, that you find your Mastery. It is not in resist-
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 71
ance, but with just that sort of indifference say: “ Oh
you human appearance you have no power! Run
along now! Do not try to bother me any more. You
are just wasting your time.” As you take that marvel­
ous attitude to those appearances, which not very
long ago were so terrifying, it becomes Oh so
wonderful.
This beloved brother wants you to feel his Free­
dom, Oh so much. See how in such a short time a
great transformation can take place. So it is within
each one of you. I say: “Each one of you’’ dear
hearts—every one who is here! The rapid change is
taking place! The human is dissolving. It has to, I
command it to do so and set you free forever!
Will you believe Me, when I say, I shall long re­
member this evening? Surely, you too will always
remember it; when once you come to understand how
all takes place from within out, in this Great Activity
and acknowledgment of the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence”—not from without in. Therefore, it is always
amusing to Me, when I touch upon this point with
students; because sometimes they think they are still
having a struggle, while to Me that is all past. Do
you just get My meaning? To Me your struggles are
all past! I am not speaking in riddles. Remember!
to Me your struggles are all past! Accept it will you
not?
Would you believe that sometimes We are
72 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
tempted? Shall I tell you how? The temptation is so
great to extend My hand and just lift you up. It
could be done! I say that, because it is true; so I may
try to convey to you the Accomplishment.
The Radiance released in this room to-night from
yourselves is the most astonishing thing you ever wit­
nessed, if you were to suddenly see It. That is what
it means, Oh beloved ones, to be obedient. Do you
think, there is anyone in the world who could pos­
sibly think that obedience to the Great Divine Law
meant privation of any kind? Oh how could anybody
in the world think such a thing. Yet some of human­
ity do. They think that being obedient means, they
are going to be deprived of some of their sense de­
sires. It will be well indeed, when all these sense
desires, all limitations are bound forever. Does any­
one want to hang on to them? I think not! This is
why I say to you, beloved ones, who have taken this
step, keep on, go on, to your Glorious Wondrous
Freedom.
Saint Germain insisted, that I speak to you to­
night. I convey His Love and that from the Blessed
Nada, the Blessed Master Jesus, the Beloved Lanto
from the Royal Teton, and that Group of Ascended
Masters in Arabia. They see among you, those to
whom they can give Great Assistance and I convey
Their Love and Blessing to you.
Dear hearts, you, who have entered into this one
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 73
hundred percent Group, please do not ever accept
one word, one thought, that We are not Real; that
the Ascended Masters are not Real. We are far more
Real than you are yet; for in that feeling of Our
Reality, of Our Closeness, it enables you to become
like Us. Do you know I just love to feel your heart
beat. When My Rays of Light go from My Heart to
yours, then you become a part of Me—not the Mes­
senger you see before you; but of MYSELF; and do
you know that for some time, this has been going on?
Oh, I want you to feel, beloved ones, We are no
long faced individuals. We are filled with Joy and
Happiness; that serene, clean pure Joy and Happi­
ness which is always bubbling over. Our Gratitude is
so great, even in Our Attainment—
a Gratitude so
great to the Principle of Life which We enjoy; of
which We are a part; in which to-day, We have be­
come a Perfected Part. This is what We want to do—
to help to assist you, to become That which WE ARE.
I suppose, We must consider time, but you know
I would just like to hold you in My Radiance, until
every one of you just dissolve those outer garments
of imperfection and then We go on together. That is
the way the atmosphere in the room is to-night. It is
so beautiful that in a moment’s stillness, the very
outer atmosphere throbs with the Joy of Freedom
which It is; that Joy of Freedom which is yours NOW.
Will you not accept It in Its fulness? Oh just think!
74 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
that Freedom which encompasses all Perfection.
Stand eternally glorified in Its Radiance forever!
To-night, I offer the Eternal Blessings of the Great
Host of Ascended Masters, the Legion of Light, the
Great Cosmic Beings, the Gods of the Mountains,
the Angelic Host, and My Own Love to enfold you
with Its Courage, Strength and Conscious Dominion;
to sustain you and quickly lift you unto Our Freedom
from every limitation and discord of every kind;
until you too, like this good brother, can say to all
limiting appearances of discord: “ You have no
power!” Then they have no power in your world.
Oh, if you could feel that! I know you can! You can
feel it—now! Say to all limiting appearances or dis­
cord of any kind: “ You have no Power! ‘Mighty
I AM Presence’ take command of my world! fill it
with Your Perfection! and hold Your Dominion
within it forever.” Then feel the Glory of It actually
operating.
The blessings of the Great Cosmic Light enfold
each one of you unto your Perfection and Ascension.
My Love enfolds you forever in Its Transcendent
Light.
C H A A R A ’ S D I S C O U R S E
RATAN A’s ALH AM BRA 1 0 0 % GROUP
MARCH 19 , 1 9 3 7
H
OW fortunate Oh beloved Ones of the Light,
that you have entered into this Great
Stream which is endless in Its onward
journey into your Perfection. We, Who have gone
the way and know the requirements of all mankind,
stand by always waiting the opportunity, to give all
possible Assistance at this time, in co-operation with
the Great Cosmic Law.
Think of the privilege you have to-day in This
Understanding of the Light; in being the Light; in
calling the Light into action; in calling your Mighty
Tube of Light into action from the “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” to hold Its invincible protection about
you!
How did We attain Our Freedom? By that very
identical Activity. First, by the acknowledgment of
Our Mighty God-Presence, the "Mighty I AM ” ; sec­
ond, by calling It into action to produce that Mighty
Tube of Light, invisible to all human discord and
creation. Then, We were able to hold Ourselves in
the balance between the human and the Divine, to
allow Our Mighty Presence to pour Its Mighty In-
75
76 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
telligent Energy through Our Bodies, out through
the heart, into our worlds and have the Perfection
which It is.
Beloved ones, only Those Who have gone the way
that all mankind must go into the Ascension, know
what your requirement is. The one who has not yet
attained, cannot possibly know. Therefore, your only
Intelligent Information must come from Those Who
have made the journey just a little ahead of you. We
have made that Journey and therefore, are able to
give you Assistance, as yet little understood. Even
the greatest of your heart’s comprehension of the
Assistance which is at hand is little, in comparison
with what you will ere long understand.
Please be aware of this, for only as you progress
by holding your attention to your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” and the Great Host of Ascended Masters,
will you steadily and surely ascend, ascend and as­
cend, until you pass the balance of the human into
the Divine. Then, will you suddenly become aware
of a clearness, an alertness and fulness of the Power
of your Presence within you and your world. Then,
will your decree—then will your call to the Presence
be answered instantly.
With Ourselves, no longer is there anything within
Our Consciousness or world that causes an effect of
anything but Perfection. Therefore, when We call to
the Presence, instantly it is done. If We require
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 77
something through a precipitated activity, it is there.
The world of Substance obeys Us in whatever octave
it may be. In your octave of human experience, the
substance is necessarily very dense; but as you ascend
from one octave into another, the substance becomes
more pliable, more easily brought into the form
which you decree. Therefore, with Us, We have but
to feel, express the Desire and It is there in mani­
fested form. You are rapidly approaching the time,
when you can extend your hand and receive the
manifestation.
Only as human doubts and fears have caused man­
kind, yourselves included, to limit the Power of the
Life, which beats your heart, to express more fully,
are you yet unable to call and have it answered in­
stantly. Yet, among the students all over America
there are those who are being answered almost in­
stantly. The Messenger before you has come to find,
that he can call and it is answered; he can decree and
it is fulfilled almost instantly. So to-day, We want to
convey this Truth to you—into your feeling world.
To-night while I speak to you, there will come forth
into your feeling world the Truth which I speak to
you, through the Power of Radiation. It will hold Its
Anchorage within your feeling world, to render you
the service required.
I know, it is not easy for the human to realize the
simplicity, the Power, with which these Great Laws
78 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
cause manifestation; or how you may manipulate this
Substance about you; and fulfill the requirement
which is your need to-day or in the future. There­
fore, as you continue to decree for greater and greater
Perfection to fill your world; through the momen­
tum, there gathers tremendous speed and you not only
gain in confidence, but in your activity. Therefore,
you will find as you go forth in your application, each
time it acts more quickly. But watch out! dear hearts,
that you do not try to make your application, until
you have reminded yourselves: that when you call
your Presence into action, It knows no resistance or
interference, but It proceeds with the Power of the
Universe to fulfill your requirements.
This is so imperative for you to keep before the
outer consciousness. Then your application will act
with tremendously greater speed; because the human,
through momentum and that which is within your
feeling world, of which you are unaware, will many
times seemingly obstruct your way; until you learn
that it is necessary to remind the outer intellect, that
no human creation is an obstruction in the way;
when you call forth the energy from the Presence,
into you, through you and out into your world.
Now then, you may call your Presence to project
forth a Ray of Light and the Presence fulfills the con­
dition for that service; but for your Victory, through
yourself must come the Radiance, which will one day
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 79
set you free. You can give great service, even now, by
calling your Presence to project the Rays of Light
and send the energy forth to perform the Service of
the Light; but for you to gain the Victory, remember
It must come through the purifying of your human
form, in order for you to have your Eternal Victory.
After these two years of close association with you,
do you realize how close has become that association?
Perhaps you do not see Us; but does that prove that
We are not moving about among you? Not at all.
Remind your outer intellect that many of the things
you are using in your outer world you do not see;
yet you accept them, do you not? Just to-night, when
you heard the Broadcast you did not see the speaker;
you did not see the lines or wires connecting you
with that which produced the action, did you? Yet
you heard it; you received its blessing and it was
quite natural to you. Why cannot mankind receive
the Reality, the Blessing of the Great Host of As­
cended Masters, as readily as they receive the blessing
of your radio; or the use of the airplane, whose pro­
peller becomes invisible in its power to carry you for­
ward. Yet it is there acting.
Therefore, dear ones, with your attention called
to these various Activities which are blessing you,
but yet invisible, you will see how practical is this
Understanding of the Ascended Masters. They alone
represent the Perfection of the “ Mighty I AM Pres-
8o ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
ence.” One day you will become as We are. It is not
a matter of can you, but you have to! Understand
that please, will you not? It is not a matter of your
choice. One day, you are compelled to enter Our
World, the Octave of the Ascended Masters. Your
acceptance to-day, of this Instruction and full Power
of the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” will enable that to
come about with a speed which will cut off many
embodiments.
Do you realize, Oh precious ones, that in this Un­
derstanding of your “ Mighty I AM Presence” and
the Blessing which the Ascended Masters, the Legion
of Light and the Great Cosmic Beings offer you; with
earnest attention to your Presence, you can acquire
in this embodiment what might take many? Remem­
ber, precious ones, when your attention is earnestly
given to your Presence, that instant your Ascension
has begun. Do not let the human, your own or any­
one’s else, be foolish enough to say to you “ That can­
not be.” I tell you it is! and who should know better
than We Who have gone the Way?
Now then, if the human intellect is too arrogant
to believe the Law of which We are the Fulfillment,
then We cannot assist; but those who will believe
the Truths We speak to them, because We are actu­
ally the Fulfillment of those Truths, then We can be
of almost limitless Assistance to them. This is what
We are offering the precious Children of the Light,
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 81
who have been drawn under the Radiation of Our
Beloved Saint Germain.
You know, it is said that I resemble Saint Germain.
Well I feel quite honored. Remember, Oh people of
America! Saint Germain is the One, Who has en­
abled this Freedom to come to you. No other one of
the Ascended Masters, dear hearts, came forth, stood
His ground and fulfilled that which He declared was
and could be. He has proved that He knew whereof
He spoke.
To-day, a great number of your blessed people of
America are proving for themselves, the great Truths
which He uttered. He has worked, has labored, for
more than two hundred years for your Beloved
America; My Beloved America. Do you not think
that We love America as well as you? Knowing, that
America must be the "Cup” that carries the Light
that lights the world, do you not think, We should
love your America, as only those who see with un­
limited vision can love?
While I give you beloved ones great credit for your
ability to love, Our Ability far transcends yours.
Does that sound strange to you? Not at all. Only as
you become free in the Light, do you realize how
fragmentary is your ability to release the unlimited
Power of Divine Love to bless everywhere. As this
good Messenger has told you when Saint Germain,
for his instruction, released that great flood of Love
8g ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
in his presence; he knew that he had never known
what Real Love was before. So it will be with you,
as you ascend, and ascend, and ascend—higher and
higher, into the Consciousness and Activity of your
Presence. Then too, will you understand that in your
greatest outpouring to those on earth you Love, it is
but a fragmentary part of that with which you will
flood the world, in the greater Understanding and
Acceptance of your “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
Mankind should not feel that they have to be with
each other in physical form to pour forth that Great
Love. As these two beloved Messengers have come to
know, their Love for each other is perhaps twenty
times greater, than it was before they entered into
this Great Stream of Light and Activity. Yet some­
times for days, they scarcely see each other in the
service they are rendering. So, We want you to know,
dear hearts, there is no absence in the Presence and
Power of Divine Love. Whether you are held within
each other’s embrace, or whether you are miles apart,
it makes no difference; and it should not make any
difference in the out-pouring of your Love and the
loyalty of that Love to each other.
We rejoice exceedingly in the privilege that We
have to be of assistance, Oh beloved ones. Your pre­
cious hearts are reaching out so intensely, not only
for Freedom, but for your Ascension. Just think what
has been accomplished in so short a time—a little
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 83
more than two years! Oh, precious ones here in
California, in a little more than one year, you have
gained within your precious hearts that wondrous
conviction, feeling and desire for the Ascension,
which it is possible for you to attain.
Think of it, people who have been in this Under­
standing of the “ I AM ” for only one year, before
coming into It, could not have even conceived such
a thing was possible. Yet to-day, thousands and thou­
sands have accepted, in the fulness of their feeling,
the Reality of their Ascension and are working
toward It with all earnestness.
As you have been told before, precious hearts, if
for any reason you do not accomplish your Ascension
in this embodiment; in your understanding, applica­
tion and powerful reaching forth for It, you would
be certain to make It in the next embodiment. Re­
member, you carry with you everything of the
achievement you have attained so far. Now with the
use of the Violet Consuming Flame, you can dis­
solve all discordant creations about you. Then, when
you return again, you have nothing to meet here,
but the Glory and Perfection which the Understand­
ing of this Presence holds for you. Its Perfection
waits to meet you. Then instead of your human crea­
tion, the Blazing Light meets you here, you go forth
quickly in that Blazing Light, into your Ascension
in the next embodiment.
84 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
Pardon Me, if I talk too rapidly. We rejoice to-day
in the Glory that is yours and in the great expansion
of the Light within your precious hearts. We see It,
dear ones, Oh as clearly as you see the faces of each
other. We see and know your achievement. This is
why in these wondrous days, We utilize every oppor­
tunity to convey to you Words of encouragement.
Not only do those Words go forth, but Our Radia­
tion pours out through those words and acts within
your feeling world, although you may not yet com­
prehend much of it. The Light is acting there just
as surely as I am telling you. In Our Radiance, even
now, many of you feel Its Glory within your heart—
the warmth and Radiance of the Divine Love from
your Presence. Even as I call It forth, the chest area
of the Messenger is almost glowing enough for you
to see it physically, and That Light is acting within
you. In your one hundred percent Groups, I say this to
you to-night: A Great Service is being rendered
America and the world; but do you know that some­
thing else is being done for you individually? Just
for a moment feel this deeply! We are trying in
many ways to bring your one hundred percent Groups
to a certain achievement. This is why you were im­
pelled to start them. We want to bring you to a point
where We can show you the Manifestation of these
Inner Powers, which will enlighten all tremendously
who are prepared for It.
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 85
This good Messenger has had to receive certain
preparation. Each One Who dictates must have that
One’s own Radiance established within and about
him, to enable Us to flash these Words before him
which he conveys to you. This has now become such
a natural activity. There is only a breath between
Our visibility and the Radiance which went forth
from his shoulders to the waist to-night, in this Light
which I have called forth into action within you.
As the one hundred percent Groups are more and
more prepared for It, who knows, when some very
delightful beautiful thing will suddenly show you
all the proof you want of that which the Messengers
have so earnestly endeavored to convey to you?
This is not an imaginary thing. We are not im­
aginary Beings. As the Great Divine Director said
last night, We are really more Real than you are.
Perfection is Real, more Real than that which con­
tains imperfection, is it not? Therefore, We are the
Reality.
Oh beloved ones, it is such a beautiful thing to
come into this closeness with you, wherein We can
reach into your heart and feeling world and give
the Assistance that you so much crave. All mankind
must have this, until they come to a certain point of
Self-mastery. As you understand this, deeper and
deeper gratitude comes forth. Then, you prepare
the way more and more, not only for the Greater
86 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
Flood from your Presence, but for That which We
can give to you.
We love to hold your hands and sometimes We
move about you, when you least expect it. From any­
where We are, We need but to direct Our Attention
to you to see what is required. When you give your
attention to Us—your Presence first and then to Us—
your Radiance, your Ray of Light comes to Us like an
arrow. We know it and come back on your Ray of
Light with all that is required or permitted.
Do you not see, Oh beloved ones, how practical is
all of this Mighty Activity? Now, while I am speak­
ing these words, try to accept the Feeling of how
practical is every particle of this so-called Tran­
scendent Activity. It is transcendent from the human
sense; but it is all so practical and natural! The Ac­
tivity of the Ascended Masters is the most practical
Thing in the world. As you come to feel that, you
will enable Us to do so much more for you. Then,
so much greater Assistance can be given, than if you
felt It was something too transcendent for you yet
to reach. Mankind has gone on throughout the cen­
turies since the time of Jesus and His Ministry, feel­
ing He was a Being so far beyond them, that He
could not be reached. His Heart has ached so many
times for mankind, when He wanted to come close
and give Assistance; yet the very feeling of individ­
uals held Him away at a great distance.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 87
Once you learn the Power of your feeling world,
what a transformation will take place in your Life.
Hold your feeling harmonious to the Great Presence,
call It with great determination, into action, to pro­
duce Its Perfection and hold Its Dominion in your
world. Oh then, the Joy, the Beauty, the Freedom
and the Happiness that is yours. Oh, dear hearts, you
do not need longer remain in unhappiness of any
kind. Oh, do not let the human any longer have
dominion to make you unhappy.
The Great Light which gives you Life and beats
your heart is free—Oh so free! Yet the ignorance of
the human tries to bind that Light, and to say, to
that which the Light produces: “ You are mine! You
must obey me!” What nonsense! Oh, the Freedom
of the Light to give every human being Freedom!
Once mankind learns to do that, then very great will
be the happiness mankind will experience.
Is it not a tragedy, dear hearts, when human beings
for any reason whatsoever, try to bind others to them.
It is not the Law of Life. Freedom is the Law of Life.
That does not mean license to do wrong things, not
by any means! but it does mean in the feeling world
each one should let every other one be perfectly free.
Just call their “ Mighty I AM Presence” into action
and feel it. Then all must be in perfect harmonious
accord. This does not mean that men and women
should go out and pick up with each other’s wives
88 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
and husbands or anything of the kind. That is not
freedom! It is worse bondage than ever; because
when mankind sets up causes, God alone knows how
far reaching are the effects. Freedom means in your
feeling world, to let every one feel the full Glory of
his own Presence. Wonderful! wonderful! wonder­
ful indeed! Only We Who have attained That Free­
dom know just how wonderful It is.
To-night, I wish to remind you how very wonder­
ful is the adoration in your songs to these Great Ones.
Oh, it is very wonderful! That harmony and rhythm
of your Love and Adoration pouring forth to Them
in song, enables Them to come back to you in a
transcendent manner, which words could not de­
scribe. To-night, you sang so wonderfully—
really.
You know there are two kinds of singing; one that
sings from the intellect and the other that sings from
the heart. You have heard singers who were as cold
as ice, haven’t you? Then, you have heard those
whose very Radiance glows with the loving Kindness
of the Wondrous Presence and Activity within them.
Those sing from the heart. You, to-night, sang from
the heart. You know the poetical phrase: “ Two
hearts that beat as one.” It is far more than that—
many hearts are beating as one to-night.
Oh dear ones, do you not see how in the acknowl­
edgment of the Great, the Mighty Presence, all the
world becomes an expression of Divine Love? All
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 89
the world becomes lovers—expressing Divine Love.
Do you not see how wonderful it is? These Beloved
Messengers have learned to do that—to pour forth
such a Power of Divine Love to the students, that It
gives them happiness, they never knew existed be­
fore in their Love to each other. Their Love before
was very great and yet, It was not a fragment in com­
parison to this Great Love of the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” which pours forth to flood the world of the
students everywhere.
Oh precious ones, you have entered into a world
of Light, Love, Freedom and Perfection. Accept it,
unto Its fulness in all activity of you and your world.
Remember, dear ones, no longer need you accept or
hold within you, the slightest inharmony in your
bodies; for you know now the Light in your heart,
your physical heart in your body, is your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” acting there. I leave this statement
with you to-night. Remember, your heart is your
“ Mighty I AM Presence” acting within your human
form. Therefore, Its Radiance pouring forth in every
cell of your body through the Threads of Light that
come forth and the Points of Light within those cells,
enables you to be a dynamo of the Energy from your
heart. Then to think, that mankind should ever have
thought any one could have heart trouble! It is never
the heart that is troubled, dear hearts, It is your feel­
ing. Just your feeling that is troubled, not the heart.
go ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
So remember, remind yourselves, Oh precious
ones, that your heart here, giving Life to your body
and circulation through it, is your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” in your human form. Do you not see then,
how you cannot help but feel the closeness, the Real­
ity of your “ Mighty I AM Presence” within you;
producing Its Perfection instantly at your command?
At your command, a great intensified Activity must
sweep out all imperfection of every kind.
Many times this good Messenger has been brought
to those who were so ill and weak that they could
not walk; and after twenty minutes got up and walked
with full strength, showing that the trouble which
was thought to be the heart, was only a human con­
cept, in the feeling world of that individual. As soon
as that was removed from the feeling world, the
strength of the Presence was there.
Oh do not limit yourselves again in any manner
whatsoever, precious ones. I plead with you. Your
“ Mighty I AM Presence” is your Storehouse of
Health, Strength, Supply, Money, Happiness, Joy—
everything you require, is here. The Fulness of it
is anchored there (above in the Electronic Body) ! It
is ready to pour forth without limit—
everything you
require! Will you not accept that? So far as your
money supply is concerned, will you not accept your
Presence as your Storehouse? Then, if channels are
necessary for your supply, those channels must work
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 91
in harmony for your supply. Do you not see how it
cannot fail?
If any of you are lacking for your money supply
in any way, it is because in your feeling world there
is the consciousness of your limitation. In the intel­
lect you are not aware of this obstruction acting in
your feeling. Then say: “ Mighty I AM Presence”
take out of me the feeling that is obstructing the
way! You release Your Supply of money I require, in
the Service of the Light.
Oh precious ones, do you not see it could not fail,
not for one moment? We want you to become fully
conscious, that your Presence holds ready to pour
forth at any given moment, everything that you re­
quire, for your happiness and comfort. After all, it
is through your joy and happiness that the release
comes quickly, of everything your Presence holds for
you. As you stand before the Chart of your Presence
each day, feel Its Joy and Happiness surging forth,
and filling your world and home. It will do it so much
more powerfully, than anything mankind has yet con­
ceived through the human activity.
To-night, Oh beloved ones, you shall go forth
carrying My Joy, My Happiness, My Consciousness
of your supply of every good thing which you re­
quire for use. It shall remain active there within your
feeling world. I so decree it. Will you not accept this
in its fulness for your Freedom? How do I know,
92 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
that which I desire to anchor within your feeling
world for your use, is acting there? By the Activity
of the Light within you. Even as I issued that Decree,
this moment, the Light expands within you in re­
sponse to My great Desire to help you. That is how
We know whether Our decree or desire for your As­
sistance is acting or not. I am grateful that you are
able to accept My Humble Service which I have
offered.
In the fulness of the Great Light, “ The Light of
the World,” I call Its Activity to hold you in Its
Wondrous Embrace, raising, raising, raising you,
until that moment when you suddenly feel yourself
wholly free from every limitation; and you call forth
through your greater Understanding this Blessing
for all mankind.
Do you realize, Oh beloved ones, to-night in this
hour, We have been in a heavenly, Eternal Sanctu­
ary of the Light? It will always continue to expand
for you. My Love enfolds you forever, and may your
acceptance make it ever more and more possible for
Our Assistance to come to you. I thank you.
L A D Y M A S T E R N A D A ’ S D I S C O U R S E
“ i a m ” school
MARCH 20, 1937
This Discourse is especially suitable for Schools.
B
ELOVED Children of the Light, of the “ Mighty
. I AM Presence,” My Joy is boundless to-night
' in pouring forth to you from My Heart, My
Love, Courage, Strength and Activity, which shall
always continue to act within your feeling world.
You perhaps understand, that besides this physical
body which you have, you have what is termed an
emotional body, or a feeling body, outside of your
physical body and penetrating it. Your feeling body is
your Powerhouse, or the means by which you are
supplied with energy which acts through your phys­
ical body. Now then, as you understand this and your
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” you will find you can call
your Presence forth to charge your minds and bodies
with all the energy and strength that you require; you
can call forth all the courage you need.
Call the Presence to give you confidence in your­
self to apply the Law of your Presence, which is your
Life. As you continue to call your Presence into
action, you will find each day you gain a greater con­
fidence; not only that your Presence is there and
93
94 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
does answer you; but you have a feeling of greater
Calmness and Peace within yourself, through calling
your Presence into action.
Having had long, long experience with the chil­
dren of earth, it is always My Great Joy to be of
service whenever the opportunity affords. The chil­
dren of Los Angeles have responded so wonderfully
to the Instruction which Saint Germain has brought
forth. Now, We shall do everything We can to make
the children of Los Angeles an outstanding pattern,
an example. Now notice! You are to be an example
for children everywhere; because your city is one
where children from all over America come to visit.
You know that and therefore, as children of the
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” you will be the example
for your visiting friends who come here, will you
not? You know that is considerable responsibility;
for you want to be a Shining Light and Example, not
only to the grown-up people; but to the visiting
friends who will come here. I tell you that in the
next two years many, many from various parts of
the United States will come here to visit you. You
see!
Therefore, you want to be so alert, so attentive to
your Understanding of the Presence by applying It
in all your school work, that when your visiting
friends come; you can with full confidence, stand
before the Chart and explain It to them just as this
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 95
good Messenger does. Will each one of you just feel
a great earnest desire to become so familiar with the
explanation of the Chart, that you can quickly and
readily explain it, any instant you might be called
upon to do so? It is a very wonderful thing, dear chil­
dren. Do you realize, precious ones, that children
for thousands of years have not had this privilege
before?
This Understanding of the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” which Saint Germain has brought forth, has
not been in the outer world for thousands of years.
That is a long time from the human standpoint, but
it is true. Now, that you have this privilege in the
Understanding of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” It
does make everything easy for you. It helps you to
maintain Self-control, Dominion of your feelings!
It enables the Power from your Presence to flood
forth to do the things you require.
As you go forth in this Understanding, you will
find as the energy continues to flood forth through
you, that It gains what We term momentum. I mean,
through the continuous use of a thing, you gain
Power by it. That is what We mean by momentum.
Often, you will find where there is a requirement,
that your Presence will suddenly charge Its Currents
of Energy through to bless you—even sometimes be­
fore you ask. This is what We want you to feel, dear
ones; that after you have called the Presence into
96 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
action for awhile, It begins to act, ofttimes even be­
fore you call. Then you will find that your Presence,
through the Higher Mental Body is always standing
on guard through you and for you. Do not forget, that
in your homes, you can render such a beautiful service
to your brothers, sisters, friends, father and mother.
Every night will you do this for me? Before you go to
sleep, will you take a copy of the Chart, either in the
Books, Magazine or some copy of the Chart, and speak­
ing to your “ Mighty I AM Presence” simply say:
“ Mighty I AM Presence” now You hold my body,
while it sleeps, in Your Wondrous Embrace of Light.
When I awaken in the morning, You take charge of
my mind and body! cause me to do the Perfect Thing
always which I should do, to produce the greatest
happiness for myself and those about me; and to
produce the greatest success in all I desire to do.
Remember, you are the one who must call the
Presence into action to govern your world. Do you
know that your world is just that which extends
around you, for say the distance across this room—
this part of the room here from the door forward
(about 20 feet)—in a circle, that would be the world
of the average individual. Now notice this closely! If
this were a complete circle, it would be what the
average person’s world consists of. Does that seem a
small world? Well you would be surprised how much
is contained within that world.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 97
Then your part, your objective or that which you
require, is to call your Presence into action; to not
only control your mind and body; but this world
which extends around you. It means to a large
extent your feeling world and that which you have
created.
Now blessed children, I wish to give this to you,
because it means so much. You see on the Chart the
Violet Consuming Flame. Call your Presence to pass
It from your feet up and consume every discordant
thing which you have ever created through the cen­
turies; because you have lived many times besides
this lifetime—in similar bodies. If you will call the
Presence to use the Violet Consuming Flame, you
will have very little difficulty in keeping your feelings
harmonized, and that is what all mankind requires
to-day.
The conditions, which exist about humanity
through so much inharmony, make it difficult for the
average person to control himself and keep harmoni­
ous; but it can be done easily in the Knowledge of
your Presence. Then, you can realize the need of
the Tube of Light about you, as you see there on
the Chart.
How many of you try to call the Presence into
action and form this Tube of Light about you? How
many of you do that? (many hands go up) Well that
is lovely. There are three things that are so important
g8 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
to you. First: to know your Presence is the Giver of
all Life to you and to the world. Second: to call the
Presence to use the Violet Consuming Flame and
take out of this world of yours every discordant thing
and accumulation of wrongly qualified energy.
Remember now, you are living in a circle of your
own world! As you call the Presence to pass the Violet
Consuming Flame through you—it is just within and
around your body. As you call the Presence to send
the Violet Consuming Flame from your feet up; and
also consume that which is around you (and will you
blessed grown-ups take note of this as well), every­
thing out here which would be discordant in this
circle of your world, is drawn in and consumed by
that use of the Violet Consuming Flame. Every dis­
cordant thing that you have ever generated or created
will be drawn into the Flame, dissolved and con­
sumed. It is a very wonderful thing, precious ones.
As you understand and in the Knowledge of your
Presence do this, you will free your world from every­
thing which has disturbed you up to the present
time. Then, when you call the Presence into action,
you will find a much more powerful Activity of your
Presence, than if It had to pour Its Energy through
the discordant creation which is there. Humanly with
your physical body you cannot do that; but when you
call your Presence into action to do it, It acts whether
you see It or not, for that is not necessary.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 99
The third thing, is calling your Presence to form
about you this Tube of Light, as you see It on the
Chart. Then, you can move in the world untouched
by the discord of human creation in the outer world,
which you must necessarily meet. If you draw such a
Tube of Light about you, do you not see that the
other people who come near you will feel the peace­
ful Radiance from the Presence pouring forth from
the Tube of Light; and they would not desire to be
discordant?
As you come to understand these simple things
and wonderful activities; you will find your Presence
will govern your world with such joyous, happy
Freedom, as you have never been able to maintain,
until you began to experience it; through calling
your Presence into action.
You see, while it is true, the Presence supplies
Life to your body sufficiently so you can move about,
yet that is not enough. The Presence waits and has
waited a long, long time for mankind to understand
the “ Presence” is there and that the individual must
make the call to It, to enable It to release a greater
volume of energy—a greater quantity of energy—to
flow in and through your body and out into your
world through your heart.
The first part of your physical body which is
formed is your heart; and that is where your Pres­
ence, through Its Ray of Light and Energy is
loo ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
anchored within your heart, within your body. This
is how God is within and God is without the “ Mighty
I AM Presence.” Only a very small part of God is
within the heart, until you consciously know the
Presence is there. It is very small and simply supplies
the ordinary use of Life to sustain the physical body.
When you know the Presence is there, you can
call It into action. As you practice It, you continue
to call forth a greater and greater volume or quantity
of the energy from your Presence; to produce Its
Perfection in your home, world, school room or
wherever it is. Will you not do this for me?
Just before you come into your school-room each
day, will you call your “ Mighty I AM Presence” into
action, to charge the school-room with this Mighty
Perfection and Understanding; so when you enter
into your school work, all will quickly grasp what is
said and be able to apply it successfully in your
studies? You will find such joy, if you will do that
and I will help you. Would you like Me to help you?
I will be glad to; if you will do as I ask and keep such
great harmony in your school-room, such great Love
and such great joy. Then the harmony makes it easy
for your “ Mighty I AM Presence” to give you Its
Comprehension and Understanding, in your studies
or in whatever is required for you to do during the
day. As you do this, you will find such a joy filling
your mind, body and world; such a happiness filling
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES ioi
your school-room, that you will just love to come
and enjoy it so much while you are here. You will
feel that Great Loving Desire to bless each other,
in all you do.
Sometimes you know, you have studied awhile and
all of a sudden you straighten up and rest, as it were,
for a few moments. In that moment, you can call forth
the Blessing of the “ Mighty I AM Presence’’ for each
one in the room; and do you know what that will
mean to you? Suppose there are a dozen students in
the room. If you will call the Blessing on the other
eleven, then you get eleven times the power of your
Blessing upon yourself, which you call forth for the
others. Do you understand that? When you call the
Blessing upon eleven other people, you get eleven
times for yourself the Blessing which you call upon
the others. Is that not worth while? It is very wonder­
ful, as you come to understand it.
To-night while I am talking to you, I am pouring
forth into your feeling world those Qualities which
will become active within you, which I see you need.
Can and will you remember, that at any time you
need extra Assistance, first send your thought—your
feeling—
your call, to your “ Mighty I AM Presence’’;
then if you wish to call to Nada, you will always have
My answer come back to you. As you try that out
for awhile and you find the response coming more
tangible each time, then such a great joy will fill your
102 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
heart; for you know, you have a friend to whom you
can call and always get the Help.
In your home, if the need gets very great, call to
your Presence first, then call to Me; and I shall al­
ways come back on a Ray of Light to you, to give
the Help that you might need for yourself, in your
home or your activity. As you do that, you will find
a Great Peace and Joy always abiding within you.
To-night, as I spread My Mantle of Pink over you,
which I have done while I have been talking, you
absorb It into your bodies, for It is Self-luminous,
Intelligent Substance. This means that It is Light
Substance—L I G H T —Light Substance, which you
are absorbing. It is the Ascended Masters’ Substance
which the human cannot qualify or clothe with any
discordant feeling. In that way, I shall be able to
give you Assistance, in your co-operation with Me,
to do many things that are very wonderful.
How many of you here are interested in art?
(many hands go up) Oh wonderful! Do you know,
that those little hands which you hold up are the
Hands of your “ Mighty I AM Presence”? Do you
know it is true and it is right. Your hands are the
Hands of the “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Then, if you
want to do some work in art you simply say: “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” now you take charge of my hands!
cause me to do Perfect Drawing; to produce Perfect
Designs or Pictures or whatever it is you wish to do.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 103
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” you take charge of these
hands! cause me to produce the most beautiful things,
even more beautiful than I can imagine from the
human standpoint. As you do that and keep calling
the Presence to do it, you will find you will be pro­
ducing the most beautiful things in pictures, designs
of flowers or whatever it is.
How many are interested in music, either instru­
mental or voice? (many hands go up) Splendid!
Then dear children, remember that your voice, your
vocal cords by which you sing, are those of the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” and you simply say: “ Now
‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ my throat is your Throat!
my voice is Your Voice. Therefore, you sing perfectly
through my voice.” If you will do that, you will be
astonished how wonderfully and quickly you will
begin to sing beautifully and perfectly.
You see, it is so in every activity of your physical
body in the outer world. For instance; Suppose you
wanted your body to become beautiful and Perfect.
If it is not as beautiful as you want it to be, simply
say: “ Mighty I AM Presence, take charge of my mind
and body! pour your Mighty Currents of Energy
through me with such intensity, that my body be­
comes as Beautiful and Perfect as You are.” Or in
a more simplified expression: “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence, make me Beautiful and Perfect” ! Then what­
ever is within your physical body that is not Perfect
104 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
will have to give place to that which is Perfect. You
see?
In these simple ways, you can call an All-powerful
Action of the Presence into your Life, to produce
the Perfection which you require; or that which
gives you happiness; because many times people,
and children especially, find one thing or another
which makes them feel disturbed or discouraged or
produces something that is not desirable. Therefore,
to anything that attempts to find action in your
world which is not Perfection, say: “ Mighty I AM
Presence, You take this out of my feeling world and
replace it by Your Satisfaction and Perfection, Your
Perfect Activity.” Then, you will be able to do the
things that you require quickly, easily, beautifully
and Perfectly.
Now, suppose you want your physical body and
its action to become Perfect, say: “ Mighty I AM
Presence, this is your physical body. You take Perfect
command of it! make it come into Perfect Order and
Perfect Action.” As you continue to do that, then your
Presence will produce Its Perfect Symmetry of body
and Perfect Action in your body which you require.
Do you know, precious children, in this Knowledge
of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” you can produce
in your body, through your body and into your world
whatever Perfection you wish to call forth?
Now, I am going to ask the Beloved Messengers
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 105
and Mrs. Mundy, if they will make copies of this
which I have said to you, so that each one of the
Schools can have it; to read to the children whenever
they feel so inclined. I shall be very grateful if they
will do that; because each time it is read, I will be
able to pour forth My Radiance through these Words
which I have spoken to you, the same as I have spoken
them to-night. That will give you a constant use of
My Ascended Master Consciousness and Feeling,
which I am pouring forth to you to-night.
After awhile, you will come to understand much
more clearly than you do now, what these Words have
meant to you to-night. As you keep calling it forth,
then clearer and clearer will come the Understanding
of That which I have anchored within your feeling
world to-night, to give you the Assistance.
I want you to know, how great are My Joy and Love
in this little talk to you, but I do not want to hold
you longer to-night. Just remember Nada was with
you in person to-night and dictated these Words to
you; because of My Great Love for you. Will you
remember that and feel, it is a part of your body and
your Life and your activity always? This will give
Me the greatest opportunity to give you all the As­
sistance that I can. Unless I can have your attention
upon Me, I cannot do so much for you.
Do you remember, sometimes, when you have
seen the man who sells balloons—how those little
106 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
balloons are fastened to strings? You have seen him
hold ever so many in his hand by the strings. In the
same way, there are threads of Light that go out from
Me to you to-night, by which I give you those Qual­
ities which I want to convey into your feeling world.
This is the way I am pouring out to-night, just like
threads of Light. Oh, through little tiny Rays that
go out. Will you sometimes remember that, how it
was done this night? Then, you will have tremendous
Assistance and Blessings.
I give you the Blessing of Saint Germain, Jesus,
the Great Divine Director and the Great Host of As­
cended Masters. They want so much to assist the
children of earth, to their Freedom and the Under­
standing of the Great Source of all Life, the “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” which every human being on earth
is seeking; but many do not yet know it in the physical
senses. All will one day come to know it! for the
Work which Saint Germain has brought forth, is
spreading so rapidly throughout mankind and the
world. One day all mankind will again come to know
this “ Mighty I AM Presence” and have the Blessing
which It alone can give and the Happiness which It
can produce.
Now, there is one more thing I want to say before
We stop and it is concerning the money you require
in your world now and in the future. So long as that
is the means of exchange, remember, dear children,
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 107
now is the time for you to anchor this firmly within
your consciousness. Your “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
which supplies Life to your body, is also the Treasure-
house. I mean by that. It is the Intelligence that opens
the way and gives the supply of money to you, which
you require for things in the outer world. There are
many grown-ups, who do not quite understand this;
but nevertheless, you as children to-day can under­
stand, that your “ Mighty I AM Presence” is your
Treasure-house—the means by which your supply of
money comes to you.
If you will always call to your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” to open the way and see that you are always
supplied with the money you require, in your Service
of the Light; then the Presence will provide ways
and means, through the Power of Divine Love and
Order; so you can and will always have the supply
of money you require, for the things you wish to use
in your outer physical activity.
This is the reason why I am asking Mrs. Mundy
and the Messengers to see that corrected copies of
this are given to whoever conducts the school; not
copies to be given out, but just to be read to the
students, whenever they feel impelled to do it; be­
cause this will carry the Radiation to you each time.
Now in the Blessing of the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” the Great Host of Ascended Masters, the
Mighty Legion of Light and the Great Cosmic Be-
io8 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
ings, I ask the Great Cosmic Light to hold you en­
veloped in Its Mighty Radiance; to produce Perfect
physical bodies; clean, pure alert minds; and firm
determined attention to your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” which will enable you to have the fullest re­
lease from your Presence, the most powerful Activity
possible. Your gratitude should always pour out to
your “ I AM Presence,” for everything that is given
to you for use in your Life.
I thank you, precious children, for this wondrous
attention which you have given to Me and your re­
ward shall be great in return for it. You precious
children! do you realize that you have given just as
perfect attention as any class of grown-up people?
That is a very wonderful thing. You know how some­
times children wiggle around and get restless? Well
you did not, and this has been quite a long time, that
I have been talking to you.
So, I just rejoice to see how you have already gained
in your LTnderstanding of your Presence. It proves
to Me, that you must have a very lovely teacher who
is teaching you in this work. Do you love your teacher
very much? Do all of you? (many answer yes) Fine!
Now just remember, that My Love enfolds each
one of you always, unto your Perfection and your
Ascension; just as I have Myself; and as all the As­
cended Masters have made Their Ascension. All
make It in the same way. Your Goal is not only to
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 109
perfect yourself; but to ascend eventually into this
Electronic Body—your “ Mighty I AM Presence”—
when you become an Ascended Being, the same as
I am to-day, as Saint Germain, the same as Jesus and
the Divine Director. So you see your Goal is two­
fold; to free yourself from limitations which the
human has created and then make your Ascension.
That will all come! and those who understand the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” in this embodiment, if
they do not accomplish the Ascension now, then in
the next embodiment they will with very great cer­
tainty. This is My Love and My Wish which I have
conveyed to you to-night. I trust it may be read to
you, so you will be reminded sometimes of this night,
in which We lived in a world not made with hands.
In the atmosphere of this room to-night is the
Radiance of your “ Mighty I AM Presence” amplified
by the Great Host of Ascended Masters. It has become
a new world while We are here. You have entered
into that new world which will continue to act
within and about you, the rest of your earthly pil­
grimage here. Will you just always feel that?
My Love enfolds you forever in Its Transcendent
Light. I hold you close in My Embrace of Love for­
ever, unto your Victory and Ascension. I thank you.
A R C T U R U S ’ D I S C O U R S E
LANNING GROUP
MARCH 21, 1 9 3 7
(Morning)
IE A T loving hearts of America! To-day, it
is My Privilege to draw your attention to
activities near at hand, in which you are a
very important part. As you have been informed,
on the 7th of April there will come a Great Cosmic
Onrush of Light into the earth.
To-day, I come to you to give Assistance, for while
you are hearing My Words, My Light shall go forth
into the mental and feeling world of mankind; to
prepare all everywhere for the Onrush of this Great
Cosmic Light. You may see some manifestation of
It or you may not, depending upon the Wisdom of
the Great Cosmic Beings Who are sending It forth;
but there will be those of the “ I AM ” Students who
will feel the great Exhilaration, the great Uplift that
day. Those, who do feel It and even those who do
not, will you qualify that eternally sustained in all
activity of your Life henceforth?
You see, beloved ones, it is not only a momentary
achievement. In your conscious feeling and ability
every step, every achievement acquired, you can
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES i n
qualify to be eternally sustained and All-powerfully
active forever—in your Life, your mind, body, home,
world or in whatever it is, for which you require that
activity.
This is such a definite, such a powerful Activity
into which you have entered. This Great Stream of
Life into which you have entered, may I remind you
again is Self-luminous, Intelligent Substance. Try
to get the fulness of this idea. Notice! Feel within
your being, that you are constantly, through your
acceptance of the Presence, absorbing into the
atomic structure of your body, this Self-luminous In­
telligent Substance. Do you not see, precious ones,
that you must have perfect health; you must have
energy without limit, to send you forth like a rocket
into any achievement in any direction for Perfection?
I assure you, precious ones, We are entering into
a dynamic activity, not as you know it; but in the
calm intensity of your feeling world, We are enter­
ing into the Activity of your Freedom. It shall be­
come manifest in your mind, body, home, world and
affairs. You are not wavering any longer, you know.
Now you straighten your spines and stand firm in
the acceptance of your Presence. Remember again,
dear ones, your determination is the activity of the
Inner Will of the “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
Be determined that America shall be free! Be
determined that your application brings results im-
112 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
mediately! Do not let your human or any one’s else
qualify anything that you do or call for, with any­
thing but instantaneous activity! Then, as you gain
the momentum, you will find more and more there
will come just like a rhythmic tapping, the steady
acquirement of the full power in your application for
any achievement.
You are no longer children. You are Gods of Light
in the acknowledgment of your Presence! As you
dissolve the cause and hold the rest of your human
self that still remains in abeyance, then your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” becomes the Only Power acting.
During your decrees, I stood here listening and
rejoicing at the willingness of the Children of God
to stand for their home—America. When you speak
those words: “ The I AM Country”—“ The Land of
the Light of God that never fails,” do you not realize
that you have uttered the Words which release the
Mightiest Power in the Universe, to produce that
very thing here in your America? How in the world
can anything longer hold its sway of discord or deceit,
when these Mighty Decrees are going forth now,
from nearly 200,000 Children of Light in America;
calling with great intensity for her Freedom? Notice
the spirit with which the blessed Students of the
“ I AM ” all over America are entering into this with
a joyous exhilaration; whose power, dear ones, to
send forth these Mighty Decrees is doing a work that
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 113
is inconceivable. Until you reach the state of the
Ascended Masters, you cannot see the Power and
Light which it is producing.
No longer do the Children of America have to
give way before discordant forces; whether it be in
your private Life; whether it be in your home;
whether it be in your city or government. Say to every
discordant appearance: “ You have no power” ! Then
it does not have any power, to act in your world or
in your country. When you issue these Mighty De­
crees for the protection of your Supreme Court, it
shall be protected. The Great Cosmic Light shall
sweep in on the 7th of April, bringing an added
Power that will silence all deceit, concerning our
government! That Mighty Light shall bring America
into the Power and Glory which belongs to her. No
human being or group of human beings have any
power to longer charge the earth or its atmosphere
with any deception or discord. Neither have they any
power to interfere with or influence the mass of man­
kind, to do anything that will bring discredit upon
Beloved America.
Listen closely! The call of the Children of America
for this Light, for this protection, is the only thing
that has been required throughout the centuries; to
release and cause the Great Cosmic Light to come
forth and give this protection! You will remember
in one of the Discourses I dictated that I said: “ If
ii4 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
necessary, that Light as of ten thousand suns shall
sweep into the earth and bring relief and protection
to America,” and so it shall be done! No longer is
mankind helpless before these forces which indi­
viduals have not understood. To-day, every “ I AM ”
Student who is in earnest, understands the forces
which they have to deal with and are fearless before
them. When they call this Mighty Light into action,
the Mighty Activity of the “ I AM Presence,” then the
Power of the Universe has gone forth to do Its Perfect
Work for each one, individually, collectively and for
Nations.
Notice the difference, beloved ones, between the
time when mankind did not know or accept its Di­
vine Power; and now, when individuals have come
to know this Mighty Presence which beats every
heart. Your call to It actually releases a Universal
Power, to go forth and do that which you desire to
have done. It will continue to act, unless the in­
dividual through discordant feeling obstructs the
way. You alone through inharmony are the only one
who can obstruct your way, or prevent the response
to the decree which you issue. Remember that, be­
loved ones! The whole responsibility is in your feel­
ing world. When you issue a decree, hold your feel­
ing calm, determined that it shall be answered
quickly. Stand by it, with your determination and
it cannot fail to produce results for you.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 115
Now the need to-day in America has been great.
Yet, see how great has been the power released for
its protection and blessing. I wish, while I have the
opportunity to-day, to bless this good brother, our
beloved Mr. Zinke, who has made possible the Broad­
casting of this Mighty Truth so far. I shall hold his
hand in blessing, for that great kindness which he
has done for America. Many, many people, will be
raised up to make these things possible, dear hearts,
and their Blessing shall know no bounds.
Dear ones, there are those in America to-day once
they understand this Mighty Truth, Its Simplicity
and Great Reality who will be so ready to give as­
sistance for the freedom of mankind in America.
Watch it! and please remember, dear ones, that no
human discordant thing has any longer any power
to obstruct the Way of the Light of the “ Mighty
I AM Presence.” Anyone who tries it is but just
childish and foolish. While they will reap great un­
happiness and misery through it, yet it has no power
to obstruct anything in the way of the great Onrush
of this Mighty Light.
Those unfortunate individuals who have viciously
sought to intrude upon this Great Light, are un­
fortunate indeed! It is very unfortunate for them.
Those individuals, who have sought to put forth
vicious falsehood against this beloved Messenger,
God alone help them. I say to you, better had they
ii6 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
never been born in this embodiment, than to spread
falsehood against him. Watch them! You or I could
not wish anything upon them which will not be
theirs. The unfortunate thing is that some of man­
kind cannot yet understand that what they sow they
must reap. Now in the understanding of the “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” the “ I AM ” Students have all
Power to protect themselves. Whoever sends discord
to the “ I AM ” Students must feel its return to act
upon the sender. It seems pitiful, that they do not
understand.
It is the same way in America. I am drawing this
picture for you, that you may understand, it is the
same with individuals as it is with America to-day.
Those, who would practice deceit to bring in certain
activities for the longer binding of America, have no
power! Those individuals must reap that which they
would impose upon humanity. Do you not see the
eternal blessing which has come to mankind in the
Understanding of their “ Mighty I AM Presence”?
Dear hearts, be assured you are not dealing with
an uncertainty! You beloved students, who have
been so earnest and may not yet have the results you
would like, I plead with you, do not be discouraged.
Go on, and on, and on, in your Mighty Application
and you cannot fail! One day, you will find that wall
of human creation go down. You will look through
and see the Great Light which is yours. You will
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 117
know then, that your earnest efforts have not been
in vain. No one’s earnest efforts can ever be in vain,
in the acknowledgement of that “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” To-day, beloved ones, be reassured. Go
forward in your application of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” It cannot fail, and if it seems not to have
produced results as quickly as you require; call the
Presence to cleanse your feeling world of every dis­
cordant thing, which may be there preventing, your
application having instantaneous answer.
My Joy is boundless to-day, to find before Me you,
who have such great strength and whose Mighty
Light will blaze forth Its Glory and give whatever
Assistance is required; to bring forth this Great Per­
fection in the world. Do not accept reports, I plead
with you, dear ones, in the newspapers or otherwise.
Do not accept any report that is less than Perfection
which comes forth to your ears or your eyes. Every
time a report of limitation, distress or disturbing
thing comes, still yourself for an instant and say:
“ ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ I refuse acceptance of that
into my world or America! Take it out! Stop it for­
ever! and do not let it occur again.” You precious
ones, if you will do that individually, as you become
aware of these things, Oh how quickly will they cease
to act in your minds, your city or your country.
Need I stress again to you to-day, how, when you
issue These Decrees, they go forth into the feeling
118 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
and mental world of mankind, with a Power far be­
yond your conception in the outer. Do not limit
your call. Just feel and know, it is going forth to the
very limits of America and the Universe, to do Its
Perfect Work. The mental world of mankind is one!
The feeling world of mankind is one! Do you not
see how the human cannot have power to limit your
activity?
Dear hearts, from to-day forth, enter into the full
feeling of the Power of your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” to go forth at your call and do Its Perfect
Work. You physically do not do that; but your call
does release the Power of the Presence. It matters
not whether your physical body is strong or so-called
less strong. You blessed ladies, who represent the
feeling world of the earth, do not ever feel that you
are too frail, to issue These Decrees and have the
most wonderful results.
Beloved ones, may I say this to you to-day? We look
into the atmosphere of earth and see in the social
world, which has been taught through habit to waste
long hours in playing bridge and such various activ­
ities. Think, precious ones! what those hours spent
calling forth the Perfection of the Presence into their
own world and America would mean! Is it not curi­
ous, how mankind has sought through habit—Oh
God! to kill time. Think of it! Think of the millions
of times that expression has been used: “ Oh I want
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 119
to just kill time.” Precious ones, if you have ever
uttered those words, please do not utter them again.
Words are cups, that carry the qualities which you
express.
When We focus the Mighty Rays of Light and
look upon the earth from Our own Octave of Light,
We have seen the great waste of time—human beings
actually doing what their words express—“killing
time.” It means, that you are depriving yourself of
the time allotted to you here on earth, to produce
Perfection in your world.
To-day, dear ones, do not ever become weary of
giving your attention to your Presence, which can
only produce Perfection in your world. I have noticed
several instances among the students of America to­
day, since I came into the earth’s atmosphere this
morning, about which I wish to warn you. I plead
with you, do not let individuals who have fanatical
inclinations and go off on a tangent, affect you, dear
ones. This good Messenger had a letter recently
wherein a lady was in distress and had become a
fanatic through a discarnate, because she could not
call forth the Light as quickly as she wished, became
distressed. Just because individuals, who have been
fanatical over all kinds of things in the past, come
into the “ I AM ” study and those old creations are
still hanging around them, there is no reason for
blaming this Glorious Presence of Light—the
120 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
“ Mighty I AM ,” for the reactions of their own mis­
takes of the past.
Now dear ones, when the blessed ones have under­
stood the Instructions given, there is no excuse for
those things. It is no fault of the Instruction of the
“ I AM .” It is the fault of the human who requalifies
Life’s Energy, or some discarnate disturbing them.
Dear hearts, here is one Word I wish to offer you
to-day, in regard to the dismissal of discarnates.
When you issue a decree for the dismissal of a dis­
embodied entity, do not let your feelings ever even
once, again feel that it has not been done. That is what
is the matter with people who call for a discarnate
to be removed. They feel it is still there. They may
not know this in their outward feeling. For instance,
at your call every discarnate will be removed from
within and about you. Do you realize, precious ones,
when you call the Angels of Blue Lightning, to
take out of your world the discarnates, it is a Law
that has to act instantly, and it cannot fail to pro­
duce results?
If the after effect still remains in the consciousness
of the individual, then you, who might see that,
make the call to the Presence, to take out of that
consciousness any remaining feeling which might be
there. Then, you will give great assistance to the
individual, who may have had a reaction to it,
through habit in the feeling.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 121
Remember, in your application there is not one
particle of it can fail, ever. While I am speaking to
you, I am charging your feeling world with the Activ­
ity which gives you the Perfect Confidence, the Per­
fect Assurance that when you make application, it
must manifest. This is the Power and Certainty I
want every one of you precious ones to feel; because
there is no need of your going on longer, when
you can be free in one Mighty Sweep.
Just as it is with this good Messenger, the difference
between his application ten years ago and to-day. It
is as different as Light and darkness; because now
he has gained the full confidence and power of con­
viction, that when he issues a decree it is done. It
must be! because he does nothing to reverse it, and
you must do the same thing. Many of you are.
From to-day forth, the students in Southern Cali­
fornia and even those who are not here, are feeling
this Charge into their worlds; because Our Ability
is not limited to those present. Oh that you might
understand, beloved ones, how limitless is the Power
of an Ascended Being or a Cosmic Being, to act in
the world of human affairs. There is no limit to the
number of individuals one can reach. There is no
limit to Our Power of Assistance, according to the
acceptance of the individual.
Sometimes individuals, who want so much to ac­
cept, still have a feeling within them that they can-
122 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
not quite do it. Again you have the unbalance, shall
We call it, of the intellect and the feeling. The in­
tellect says: “ I want to accept,” but the feeling does
not quite do it. Then say: “ Mighty I AM Presence,
You take this resistance out of my feeling, make it
receptive to that which I want to express. Then do
you see how simple is the complete regulation of
your feeling world, for that which you wish to have
accomplished?
Do not ever admit for one second that your ap­
plication can fail. It cannot do it. To-day, I want to
charge into your world the sure, certain, definite con­
viction and confidence, that when you apply these
Great Laws of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” there
is no such thing as failure possible. It cannot be!
Then you will find as in one thing after another you
gain the Victory, shortly everything goes down which
has limited you; and you stand forth a Being of Light
and Freedom, even in the physical world of man­
kind.
May I call your attention to-day to that which
you call physical? Do you know really there is no
physical world, as you call it? I will explain to you
why. The Light within every cell of your body, which
is the Light Pattern, is the Limitless “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” Therefore, dear hearts, that which you
clothe those Great Points of Light with, is of human
creation and is that which the world, the outer world,
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 123
has been calling the physical world. Now do you not
see, how in the acceptance of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” you are accepting the Light Pattern of
your physical body, which has no imperfection in it?
As your attention is kept on the Presence, the
Light expands and the human, the clothing or density
with which you have clothed it, steadily and surely
dissolves and disappears. It is a Law of Life! It is
not a matter of someone’s belief. It is a Law of Life—
your Life—and all Life! It is the same way with all
Life in Nature. As individuals among mankind ac­
cept the “ Mighty I AM Presence” and call It into
action to produce Perfection in their lives and world;
all Nature must also take on the Perfection which
mankind has called forth. That is why you will find
such great changes taking place in Nature. There will
be greater beauty and greater distribution of mois­
ture, throughout the earth, and balance all that kind
of thing. It will be quite noticeable after the 7th of
April.
Now dear ones, mankind has always sought some
manifestation to prove the Existence, the Authority,
if you please, of these Great Cosmic Beings, the As­
cended Masters, the Great Legion of Light and all
those Great Beings Who have ministered so long to
the earth. Well, there are constant manifestations,
but people do not accept them. They do not accept
the Reality of Them; but instead, use every excuse
k
124 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
to keep from acknowledging this “ Mighty Law of
Life” and when something occurs, say: “ It just hap­
pened.” Now for instance, when the Messengers were
in Dallas, a Great Manifestation of Light occurred
and dozens of people saw It; but the most of them
said: “ Well I think that must have occurred from
something outside.” You see humanity is held in its
own ignorance, because of the great doubts and fears
which have accumulated in the mental and feeling
world of mankind. Until humanity will take the de­
termined stand to acknowledge this Light of the
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” it will continue in the
bondage of its own doubts and fears. You had better
make a mistake a few times in accepting a thing as an
Inner Activity and find it was of the outer activity;
than once fail to acknowledge and receive an Inner
Manifestation of the Real. I do not mean you must be
gullible, not at all; but unless you get into the habit
of accepting these Great Cosmic Manifestations and
these Great Inner Powers, how in the world will
you have the manifestation of them?
Your attention is the Power-house in accepting
these things. Your Power of Qualification is acting
all the time, and if you do not begin to accept these
Greater Activities, how can you have them manifest
in your Life? The power of acceptance is a tre­
mendous thing, as well as is your attention; but if
you will give your attention earnestly to your Pres-
MTm
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 125
ence, you will receive individually all the manifesta­
tion you require, peacefully, gently and in small
ways. Then, surely will come forth the great mani­
festations which will clear forever all doubt from
your being.
So dear ones, I want you to-day to feel that you
are no longer bound in any way. Do not fail ever,
dear ones, before you retire at night, please I plead
with you; call on the Law of Forgiveness for any
mistakes you have ever made, whether you know of
them or not, makes no difference. Then say: “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” charge my world with your
Wondrous Perfection. While this body sleeps,
through my Higher Mental Body, pour forth such
Mighty Rays and Radiance of Light into my world,
that every human creation and discordant thing there
is dissolved forever.
Precious ones, you do not yet have but a frag­
mentary realization of what you could do. You are
really God Beings, and once you really feel that, can
experience your full Freedom.
Now We are going to take up more definitely, how
during sleep, you can charge your Higher Mental
Body to act; or charge your Presence to act through
your Higher Mental Body, to cleanse, purify and set
things in order in your world, in your home or
wherever it is necessary. Do you not see, precious
ones, that while your body sleeps there are no doubts,
126 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
fears or resistance acting within your human self?
When you charge your Presence, through your
Higher Mental Body, to act while your body sleeps,
ofttimes, you will awaken in the morning with a
Perfect Glory, blazing through you during the day
and flowing out into your world.
You must see, precious ones, that the only obstruc­
tion that exists in your world to-day, is in your wak­
ing state, through your feeling—accumulated feel­
ing—which We call human creation. Now then, do
you not see, dear ones, step by step We find you ready
to take hold of your Dominion with a firmer grasp
in the acknowledgment of your Presence? Soon
precious ones, you must be wholly free, from every
thing that binds you, even in the world of human
activity. After all, as the dissolving of your human
takes place, you act in a world no longer human, but
Divine; and that Divine Activity will become your
world of action in the years ahead of you. When the
fulness of the Golden Age has come in, then you will
no longer be acting through the human; but only
the Divine in you, which is your “ Mighty I AM
Presence.”
Now notice; Why do I call your attention to this
Higher Activity to-day? Because the heart in your
human body represents your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” in action right here—the same as America is
the heart of the world, the earth. So your heart is
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 127
the anchorage and activity of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” right here in your physical form. Now, let
us feel this very powerfully and no longer accept that
any other power can act, but the Light right here
from your “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
Students have so often asked, when contemplating
old terminology, why is it so necessary not to mix
this with other teaching? This is why I said to you,
dear hearts, who have studied occult and various
forms of metaphysics; to put aside everything else
you ever studied. Please do not intrude old termi­
nology into this. Just take this in the simplicity and
the clearness with which Saint Germain has brought
it forth; and know that right here (pointing to the
heart) is my “ Mighty I AM Presence” in action-
right here. Then, do you not see the feeling of health,
perfecting of conditions or anything you require is
right here in your heart; ready to act and produce
that which you require? If you will think of It in
that way, you will see how much more powerful it is.
While it is true, that the greater part of your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” is above you; yet this part of you is
anchored right here in your heart; and as you give
attention to it, this part expands, until in one sweep
all can be dissolved which has been limiting or dis­
cordant.
Do not limit your ability to call your Presence into
action with such intensity, that all things are quickly
128 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
dissolved which are less than Perfection. See! The
reason I am saying this to-day is that, so many times
the students write the Messengers and say: “ Well,
I know what you are going to tell me, but I do not
quite feel, I have the ability you have to call the
Presence into action.” Well that really is not the
case. You do have the ability, only you just do not
think so, you see? As long as you put it off, for some­
body else to call your Presence into action, just that
much longer you are depriving yourself of the quick
Freedom you would have, in your own determined
call to the Presence.
Now notice, precious ones! your determination is
the activity of the Inner Will of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” Therefore, in your call, you do not have
to tear your hair out, you know; but call with firm
determination and accept in your feelings that your
“ Mighty I AM Presence” answers this right now. In
a little while you will gain such Victory and con­
fidence, that every time you make a call within a
few hours, a day or two, the answer will be there.
We have the proof of it constantly.
In the activity of the Messenger here, it has been
so very marked. Oh, I assure you, he was more timid
than most of you. When this transformation has
taken place in his Life, then there is not one of you
that cannot have equally as great accomplishment;
but remember his willing, absolute willing obedi-
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 129
ence, has been the great and quick Victory for him.
Notice, precious ones! you know how mankind
does overlook things. The Great Divine Director,
Jesus and Saint Germain have asked the students to
live according to the Group Regulations. Yet, again,
again and again, they come back and say: “ Well I
wonder if I could not do this.” Notice the obedience
of this good Messenger. He never questions. When
They ask him to do a certain thing, he forgets every­
thing else and does the thing They require. If the
beloved students would just do that joyously and
willingly, they would see such manifestations; but
as long as they want to intrude their own ideas, they
are not obedient. They do not always know this, and
it is not criticism—but We must explain it, in the en­
deavor to correct the feeling which is acting within
some individuals. Now, Saint Germain’s Work ex­
plains Itself absolutely! Yet individuals feel that they
can add to It and give a clearer explanation. It is a
funny thing is it not? They are perfectly sincere;
but it is the habit of the human to feel that it under­
stands a little better than the other fellow and can
give a little clearer explanation. You see? Well, some­
times it does seem to be so; but after all, dear hearts,
you cannot live the Life of the other individual.
Make them do some work! You know the human al­
ways wants to lay down on the job and let George
do it; but you will find, precious ones, you cannot
igo ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
do that. When you come to a certain point, you must
buckle on your armour and get busy in your applica­
tion. Then, you will quickly be free.
My Joy is so great for this opportunity of speaking
to you heart to heart; for these are Oh so real, how
real, precious ones, are these heart to heart talks.
Only in time to come, will you realize how truly they
are heart to heart talks; because My Heart is acting
within yours while you are here to-day. Oh, is it not
a wonderful thing to feel the heart-throb of your
blessed hearts? Notice! the Hearts of the “ Mighty
I AM Presence.” That heart in you is not yours!
Did you ever think about that? It is the Heart of
your “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Yet some of you
think you have heart trouble. Is it not comical what
the human will do? Now in the future, I know every
precious one of you will never again think of your­
self—
your outer self—that you do not think of your
heart, as the Heart of the “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
That is true, absolutely true! It is not your heart.
I mean that! You think it belongs to you; but it is
that which gives you Life and therefore, belongs to
the Presence.
Now then! Now then, watch out here! We are
getting down now to definite things. You accept that
this is the Heart of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
then let us go a little farther. Within are the points
of Light in every cell of your body, which have to
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 131
come from the heart. Then that also belongs to your
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” does it not? Now look
out! Then, what is there left, that does not belong
to your Presence? Just this covering with which you
have clothed those points of Light—the cells of your
body.
You do not quite yet realize it; but those cells of
your body would respond to you instantly, if you
would only realize it. They would absolutely obey
you as quick as a flash, if you only had the confidence
that they would do it. It is because you have so long
forgotten, you are Master of your body, that the cells
say: “ Oh I have got something to say about this” ;
but they really have not. They are just putting it
over on you. They are running a bluff on you. You
notice, I am getting very like you in My Expressions;
but I want you to feel how close We are to you. Do
you think it any disgrace, if We use your expressions?
If you do, why can We not? I want you to feel We
are not far off; for We are going to make you feel,
that We are the Reality before We get through. I
rejoice to-day to see in your hearts the wonderful ac­
ceptance of Our Reality, more and still more, than
has ever been there before; and you know what that
means? It means more and more quickly, you go
forth into Absolute Freedom from all limitations of
every kind.
Oh just feel now as I draw, or cause the Messenger
k
132 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
to draw his hand over his body, will you just feel
this now? Let Me give you this Assistance will you
not? “ Mighty I AM Presence,” sweep out of every­
one every limiting discordant thing! consume it in
the Violet Consuming Flame this instant! and set
each one free, in the clear comprehension and feeling
of his own “ Mighty I AM Presence,” as the only
Activity within his human form or world.” Again:
“ Mighty I AM Presence” ! sweep out of these human
forms every limiting, discordant thing! quickly dis­
solve them and consume all discord in the Violet
Consuming Flame!
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” sweep through each
human form! sweep out every imperfection and every
limitation that is within each one’s consciousness!
Replace them by the Ascended Masters’ Substance
and Intelligence; to act there with full Power hence­
forth; to produce quickly the Mighty Manifestations
of the “ Mighty I AM Presence” when called into
action. Hold Thy Dominion in the feeling world
and give everyone this Mighty Confidence in their
“ Mighty I AM Presence” ! Its full Power and Ability
to do everything they ask It to do which is construc­
tive. (No student of the “ I AM ” would ask his
Presence to do anything that was not constructive,
and if they do, the Presence would not do it). There­
fore, when We call the Presence into action, We take
it for granted that all want only constructive activity.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 133
Therefore, We bring into action to-day this Activity
of the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” released within the
heart of the Individual; to expand throughout the
body quickly; expand throughout the home and
world of activity; and to take command and hold
Its Dominion there. Will you every one accept that
and feel It henceforth, All-powerfully active?
I extend to you the Greetings of the Great Host
of Ascended Masters, the Mighty Legion of Light,
the Great Angelic Host, the Great Angel Devas, Gods
of the Mountains, the God of Gold and the God of
Light! In every age, wherein great Perfection has
reigned, Gold has been in generous use; because it is
pure Life-giving energy. Again mankind will come
to use it freely, in beautifying and decorating their
buildings and homes.
To-day, let us accept forever all that is required;
whether it be money, confidence, courage, happiness,
whatever it may be! let us accept the fulness of the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” flooding our world with it.
It is for the use of all, beloved ones. You cannot be
limited in the acknowledgment of your Presence;
whether it be money you require, courage, con­
fidence, Life, health or strength—it is there. Think
of it! Does that sound like a paradox?
In your heart is all the gold you require for use.
Do you realize, precious ones, there are three activ­
ities of gold? The metalic gold that you find in the
i 34 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
earth; the liquified gold that has often been used in
a very wondrous manner in those former days of
Perfection; and then the Essence of gold which is
your Life. I venture, earnest as you are, perhaps not
a single one of you has realized, when We ask you
to flood yourself with the Golden Light, that It is the
Essence from which metalic gold comes. Think of
it! Think of it! You are using gold in its three activ­
ities; and then, mankind will take each others’ lives
for a few dollars of gold, when they are filled with
it all the time. Perhaps these individuals have not
quite so much of it; but still they have some.
I rejoice, precious ones, that you go forth different
beings to-day; glorified with so much greater courage,
and confidence in your application, in your ability,
in your feeling that every limitation is absolutely
gone down before you; and your pathway is one of
Wondrous Light in which there is no human obstruc­
tion. Will you not feel that and picture it before you?
If there is any shadow attempts to come into that
Light say: “ Oh no you don’t, you are finished! I walk
in this Pathway of my ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’ and
there is no human creation of mine or anybody’s
else is going to enter into that again.” Use your de­
termination again! Will you not do that for Me?
for yourself?
My Joy is boundless for this humble Service, which
it has been My privilege to render to-day. Carry It
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 135
with you always into your Full Victory. Then one
day, when We meet in that Great Octave of Light—
you, free Ascended Beings—then I shall shake your
hand and welcome you there! Until then, We shall
often hold your hand in the closing pilgrimage upon
earth for you, and give you through Our Radiation,
that Freedom, Courage and Confidence of your
Victory; for God, the “ Mighty I AM Presence” in
you is your Certain Victory always. I thank you.
A
M R S . R A Y B O R N ’ S D I S C O U R S E
woodard’s group
MARCH 21, 1937
(Afternoon)
B
ELOVED Students of the Light, you who have
read “ Unveiled Mysteries,” the “ Magic Pres-
" ence,” those books of the experience of this
good Messenger, will need no introduction to Myself.
You know that at the time of My Ascension, not a
single thing of this kind in the Western world had
yet been made public. Even My own beloved family
thought I was still in the tomb, after the Beloved
Saint Germain had released Me from it. It was a
very wonderful thing.
To-day, will you bear with Me, because this is the
day of the Ascension Work for these beloved ones
who are conducting this class. I want to bring this
to your notice and show you, how this beloved one
had arranged to-day really for My Coming. She
might not have known it, yet it was done; just the
same as Mr. Frank Lanning unknowingly prepared
the way for the Mighty Arcturus.
Now dear ones, the Ascension is so practical. When
My body lay first in the home and then in the recep­
tacle which had been prepared for it, I was free from
136
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 137
that body, discussing with Saint Germain the plans
for My Ascension. Please feel, as I speak these words
to you, the Reality of My own Experience, for It
will carry into your feeling world the conviction of
how practical and how real the Ascension is. That
must one day be achieved by every human being on
earth. It is not a matter of your choice, beloved ones;
but the Eternal Victory over the conditions of the
earth, comes finally through the Ascension.
Now there are many, many among the “ I AM ”
Students in America to-day, who can make that same
Ascension which I did in this embodiment. Why
do you suppose this good Messenger was brought to
the Cave of Symbols, permitted to witness these
transcendent activities and to assist in one? So he
might carry back to mankind the feeling of that True
Reality. Jesus, the Beloved One, conveyed It to man­
kind two thousand years ago, or more; but who be­
lieved it? Now, in our Western world, our Beloved
America, there has come the same proof to mankind.
To-day there will be further proof, because the time
is not far distant, when a number of the Ascended
Masters will come and make Their Bodies, Their
Ascended Bodies, tangible to you; so that all may see
and know the Truth of which the Messengers have
spoken.
Now then, in my endeavor to convey into your feel­
ing world the Reality which I know to be, will you
L
138 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
through your feeling, accept this? The Radiation
which My Words, as Cups carry to you? Accept it!
and allow It to do Its Perfect Work within your mind
and body.
Believe Me, beloved ones, when I say, that the
sense of years over your head really makes no dif­
ference. You do not know what your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” can do for you. Please do not limit It. I
know how I had limited Myself, believing I was
entering so-called death. Yet there is no such thing
in the Universe as death, Oh beloved ones! I say this
to you, precious ones with the silver hair; there is
no death, never was and never can be. It is true in­
dividuals cast off their bodies; but you are more
alive then, than you are in the limited body.
Now this Great Blessing, which has come to man­
kind through the Beloved Saint Germain, is giving
humanity the full conscious conviction of their own
ability, to enter into the Ascended Masters’ State of
Eternal Freedom. Let Me say for your great strength
and encouragement, that in the interim, when I
lost consciousness for a few moments in the outer,
and then became vividly conscious in My Higher
Mental Body—it was a state of consciousness never
to be forgotten—I thought it was a long time. Yet I
was only a few moments entering from the state of
outer consciousness into the full Consciousness of
My Higher Mental Body; Notice this, in which I
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 139
was able to give Saint Germain the assistance He
required, in enabling Me to make My Ascension.
Saint Germain could not make that Ascension for
Me; but He, in the unlimited Activity of My Higher
Mental Body, taught Me how to release the Currents
of Energy quickly from My Presence, which did the
work of refining the part of My physical body, which
it was necessary to raise into My Higher Mental Body.
Thus, We become the Ascended Being. Remem­
ber, it is the refined part of your physical bodies that
ascends and is absorbed into your Higher Mental
Body. At this point, the transformation from the
human into the Divine takes place! All appearance
of age leaves your body and the garments you are
wearing dissolve into the Garments of the Higher
Octave. Then, as the Great Ray of Light and Energy
descends from the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” the re­
fined part of your physical body—
and mark you, there
is nothing left behind—the refined part of your
physical body ascends. It is absorbed into your
Higher Mental Body. It ascends on this Ray of Light
from your Presence and is absorbed into the Elec­
tronic Body of your “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Then,
you become the Ascended Being, such as I am to-day,
as Jesus, Saint Germain and hundreds of other As­
cended Beings are.
There is only one process, beloved ones, by which
this is accomplished. I have given you the exact ex-
140 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
planation, as the Messenger has and always does in
the classes. Feel how practical this is and that It is
within your reach. Oh, do not let the matter of years
interfere with your feeling of the full consciousness
of your ability to have this Victory. Do you see now,
the beauty of that which Saint Germain has brought
forth? We have all used this same Application to ac­
complish the end of this human pilgrimage, which
is the Ascension. Please feel that your human no
longer has power to limit you; even in your compre­
hension of these simple, yet majestic Truths. Feel
now that the Ascension is for you.
Returning again to My own experience: It was
made clear to Me, how by directing certain Currents
of Energy from My Presence I could, instead of re­
leasing Myself from the body, by those Mighty Cur­
rents purify that body, which lay there apparently
helpless; and then raise it into its eternal Perfection
and Activity.
Precious ones, the day you experience that it will
never be forgotten in Eternity. Oh, the thrill of the
Victory, when you begin to see the change through
the Rays. In My case, I was in My Higher Mental
Body pouring these Rays forth on the body which
I thought, as the outer memory closed and the Inner
began, I was leaving behind. As I turned, and from
the Higher Mental Body, began to project those
Rays, I watched in every cell of that body the change
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 141
which took place. I watched the Light renewing it
and installing or expanding the Life, the Light
within each cell, and I watched the density with
which I had clothed it dissolve. Then to see that body
raise and come to Me! (Thank you for feeling that
so vividly.) I feel greatly rejoiced, that you can feel
the Reality which I wish to convey to you. It will
always remain, beloved ones, within your feeling
world, and I greatly appreciate it.
My humble Efforts to-day will not have been in
vain; for I rejoice that so many of you can accept
It fully! Allow It to become active in your Life to
do Its Perfect Work in your body.
The Great Ascended Masters assisting, and the
Beloved Saint Germain, who has such Courage,
brought forth this Work and stood guard over It
until now. It is expanding the Light in these Groups,
which this beloved Messenger has found he could
come to and voice Our Wishes to you. Far more
than that, It carries into your feeling world, the
Reality which We know to be for your Blessing.
So in this Activity to-day, there is another great
step of achievement. Do you wonder, you who are
so greatly in earnest, why certain Ones of the As­
cended Masters are using this opportunity to dictate
and convey Their wishes to you? Because a very
definite, powerful Accomplishment is being set into
action within you for your Victory. When this Class
142 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
at the Pan Pacific Auditorium is completed, there
will be hundreds of you precious ones who will not
again know limitations. Oh I rejoice so greatly!
At the time I returned and sang in the Ascended
Body, as described in The Magic Presence, you could
never know the Joy, the Thrill, as you express it,
which filled My Being in again being able to stand
forth visible and tangible, in the limitless Power of
the Voice of My “ Mighty I AM Presence.” To-day
there are hundreds of the blessed beloved “ I AM ” Stu­
dents, who are beginning to sing with that Inner
Voice. Oh, that suddenly all human sense of limita­
tion might be removed, so you could feel the full
Glory of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” as It stands
ready to pour forth through your heart Its Wondrous
Glory! Your heart is the Heart of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence”—Its anchorage within your human form.
May I say to you, as the Great Arcturus said to­
day: “Your heart is not your heart, but the Heart
of the ‘Mighty I AM Presence.’ ” How well I found
that out, when I saw, that through my human heart
in the form which lay there seemingly helpless, I
could restore, purify it quickly and raise it into
Eternal Freedom. I am using that same purified As­
cended Body to-day and always shall. You do not,
after you have made the Ascension in this manner,
ever return into human embodiment again. It is
not necessary! Your pilgrimage on earth is finished;
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 143
but you can come and make that body tangible and
visible at will in the octave of earth. You can render
a service indescribable and inconceivable, to the one
not yet having attained.
To-day, My Joy is very great in being able to con­
vey into your feeling world the Reality of this, which
I am describing to you of My own Experience. Why
do I speak of Myself? Because, I can thus convey to
you the True Feeling I had, at the time of the ac­
complishment.
Now you will go forward in the deeper and deeper
Understanding of your “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
You will be more conscious of your ability to call It
forth much more powerfully each day. Know, that
your application cannot fail, when you call your
“ Mighty I AM Presence” into action. The Power of
the Universe surges into action to fulfill your re­
quirement. It knows no interference or resistance.
Then, you realize your part is to keep your feeling
world harmonious, until the Presence can do the
thing for which you have called. In that, you know
positively It cannot fail. As you gain this confidence,
you will go from one Wondrous Victory to another
and with very great speed.
When I saw the distress within My loved ones,
who had been left behind, I said to Saint Germain:
“ Is there not some way, We can alleviate that?” He
said, “ Oh yes.” Then, We went into the home where
A
144 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
My blessed family were together. He showed Me
how to release peace and rest, through the Power
of Radiation to the family, and quickly they became
adjusted.
Then shortly after, when Saint Germain one day
said to Me: (I had not yet discovered this myself)
“ great Joy is in store for you.” I asked, “Just what
do you mean?” and He replied: “ There is going to
be another Ascension in your family,” and I ex­
claimed, “ Can you mean it?” Then, He showed Me
how it was to be accomplished, and My rejoicing
knew no bounds. During that Accomplishment, I
went with Saint Germain to the Cave of Symbols.
There in the tangible visible Body, I held My own
two beloved children in My Fond Embrace. Again,
can you not imagine, can you not feel even now as I
speak, Our great Rejoicing?
Oh, there is no experience of grief, dear hearts,
That is only what the human has conceived, and
made real to the outer consciousness. To-day, this
great Infinite Knowledge and Understanding is being
made real, simple and plain to beloved humanity.
Our Love is so great for you. Having gone the way
and knowing how wonderful is the Achievement,
do you think We could ever rest until you too were
All Ascended into the same Great Freedom? Oh no!
No One, who has accomplished the Great Victory,
feels satisfied, until all of those blessed ones follow-
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 145
ing on, have also achieved this same Great Victory.
The Mighty Divine Director, and the other
Blessed Ones Who have come forth, have charged
into the feeling world of mankind these Great Quali­
ties. They always see within your world the Assist­
ance which They can give, of which you are not yet
aware. How you will thank the Messengers one day,
when with that clear Inner Vision you see what their
great courageous effort has been, to bring Saint Ger­
main’s Freedom and Blessing to mankind. There is
no Rejoicing in the whole Universe so great.
So step by step, beloved ones, with all the Power
the Law of your Being permits, We are conveying
steadily and surely into your feeling world, that
which will be your certain, complete—and We hope-
quick Victory. It will be rapid to the degree, that
you will through your feeling world, say to all limit­
ing discordant appearances: “ You have no power!”
and really feel that is true. Then, as you call your
“ Mighty Presence” into action to perform any given
service, you will find that the Intelligent Energy of
your Presence will act with tremendously greater
Power and speed; because there is no feeling within
you to obstruct the way. Your discordant feeling is
the only thing in the whole Universe, so far as your
world is concerned, that can obstruct your way. You
see, within you is the Victory or the failure.
Here is the great encouragement in the Under-
146 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
standing, Activity and acceptance of your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” to-day. Let us take for an example,
one who only partially feels the Reality of his own
“ Mighty I AM Presence.” One day, he thinks, “ I
believe that is true,” and tomorrow: “ I am not so
sure about it.” That person is wavering and will not
have the quick Victory. Suppose he says: “ I know
that Presence is there and nothing shall take that
away from me.” Then he enters into a positive state
and he will receive the power more quickly. With
the one who has been wavering, once he has contem­
plated the Chart—the heart knows Its Reality. If he
does not gain the Victory in this embodiment, then
he certainly will in the next.
This is the beauty, the wonder of this Understand­
ing of your Presence. Whatever you do not gain in
this embodiment, when you go forth free from the
body, you will carry with you clearly and vividly
all you have gained in the Understanding of our
“ Mighty I AM Presence.” Then, when you have cast
off the body, you stand free. Thus, the Ascended
Masters will take you into Their Octave of Light.
They will complete the full feeling within you of
your Reality and the Victory. When you come back
into your next embodiment, you will quickly gain
your Victory and the Ascension. That is why, pre­
cious ones, this Understanding is so powerful and
far reaching. Every step you gain in the acknowl-
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 147
edgment of your Presence is eternal. You never lose
it! nor can you ever forget it—I mean within your
feeling world.
You know the intellect is a very curious actor. It
jumps from place to place out here and only judges
from the appearances; but the heart stands steady
and firm. It knows! It never jumps from one thing
to the other. It is always accepting the “ Mighty
I AM Presence” ; but the intellect, through its abil­
ity to judge from partial information, makes con­
stant mistakes. It says to the heart: Oh no, no! These
things cannot be true; but the heart goes serenely on,
ignoring its attitude, knowing some day, somewhere,
that intellect will have to subside and give obedience
to the Presence. That allows the Power of the Heart
to act in Its Fulness. Then comes the Freedom! Then
comes the Joy which fills the hearts of all mankind.
Our precious Lady Betty is having a day of real
work, but how she is being blessed in that work. I
want her, Lady Betty, to know how joyously We have
stood guard to give her Assistance to her Complete
Victory. She is winning It in a wonderful manner.
Her wonderful limitless service in the Staff has been
so beautiful. You precious ones in your way too are
winning that Great Victory.
Our blessed little Dynamite, as some of the Stu­
dents have come to call the Blessed Messenger, Mrs.
Ballard—How We Love her. You cannot imagine,
14B ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
precious ones, that dauntless limitless, courageous
service which she is rendering; working all day and
all night in getting the things ready that give you
blessing and Freedom. Even to-day, when she would
so love to be present, she is working on the Decree
Book to have those Decrees ready for you, to help
you all possible to your Freedom.
Oh, We want you to know, blessed ones, how We
love you; how the Messengers and the Staff love
you; how grateful is Our Love to you for your Love
which you pour out to the Messengers and Ourselves.
You have heard the statement so often: “ I Am the
Open Door which no man can shut.” Do you know
what that really means? Your out-pouring of Love
is the Open Door, because that Love comes from your
“ Mighty I AM Presence.” Your Out-pouring of Love
is the Open Door which no man can shut; for It
keeps you a pure open channel for the glorious Radi­
ance and Energy from your Presence, to pour forth
to bless you.
In closing, let Me say to you: Do not accept, pre­
cious ones, ever again the lack of energy in your
bodies. Do not do that! It is only your human concept
which limits you. Oh just like that (wave of hand),
burst every human thing that is binding you! Allow
the Great Energy from the Presence to flow through
and it will at your call. Try it! Say: “ Mighty I AM
Presence! charge my mind and body with Your limit-
— T " ----------
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 149
less energy, with Your perfect health! You are the
Perfect Action of my body, ‘Mighty I AM Presence,’
I had forgotten that; but now, since I know it, I
will not accept anything else into my world but your
Perfect Activity.” If one has a sense of age, it will
quickly disappear. You would feel the joyous ac­
tivity of a young girl. It is possible for you to do that
and quickly! The gentlemen may do the same!
Do you remember the old statement Our Blessed
One made: “ Except, ye become as little children, ye
cannot enter the Kingdom” ? Do you not see, pre­
cious ones, what is meant by that? As you become
consciously aware of your Presence and are able to
release Its Energy, at your call—the limitless Energy
from your Presence, do you not see, that you have
Youth and Freedom of action. Although you are
grown in form, you are as little children in the ac­
tivity of your Freedom and the Alertness of your
intellect. This is a very wonderful thing. It is here
for the use of all who really accept It.
Saint Germain, the Great Master from Venus,
Nada, the Divine Director and I have recently dis­
cussed this very activity. We are trusting that the
Great Cosmic Law will permit certain things to be
done for certain of the “ I A M ” Students, to be an
example for the rest. That which I referred to above
is one of them. We may take one who shows the
appearance of, perhaps sixty years; you know that is
150 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
quite young these days. Then, We Would quickly
bring about the transformation of Eternal Youth in
appearance as well as activity; that mankind may see
the result of the Power of their Presence and what It
can do for them. A few examples of that kind, I am
sure, would be absolute and complete liberation of
mankind. There will no doubt be many things done
which will give the evidence.
You know the human. Oh, it wants evidence so
much, and yet within its own human form is the
Greatest Evidence of the Universe. The very anchor­
age of Life in the human form, is the greatest proof
possible. There could be no greater evidence, if in­
dividuals but knew it; but still there are being
planned many things for humanity, which will more
quickly enable them to accept the great Outpouring
from the Presence and give them the quick Victory.
I rejoice in this opportunity, in My humble way,
to give Assistance to you to-day. I thank the beloved
sister, Mrs. Woodard, for the opportunity of ex­
pressing My Wishes; to you precious ones, for being
able to accept it, for I am so rejoiced at the great
acceptance you have been able to feel, of My humble
efforts. Will you not carry this with you constantly—
My Feeling, My Presence of your Victory?
Think of it! Only very recently, dear hearts, was
My Victory accomplished. Only just a few years ago.
Think of it! it is not from some far off age that I
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 151
come to tell you of My Victory. The Beloved Saint
Germain invited Me to come; because in so recent
an Achievement He says, He thinks I can convey
more quickly and clearly into your feeling world,
that which is your Victory, because it was Mine also.
To-day, I rejoice with all My Heart, and I shall have
to stop or our beloved Lady Betty will run out of
books.
We just love you with a Love that is a Mighty dis­
solving Activity, dissolving every imperfection which
has existed in your world. Will you not accept It?
In the use of the Violet Consuming Flame, call your
Presence into action to complete the activity quickly.
Then stand forth joyous and free! for God, the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” in you—in your heart—
is your certain Victory. I thank you.
T A L L M A S T E R F R O M V E N U S ’
D I S C O U R S E
ROGERS’ GROUP
MARCH 2 1, 1 9 3 7
(Evening)
B
jELOVED ones of earth, how rejoiced We are
. on Our far distant Planet, at the expansion of
" your Light on earth. Do you think it so
strange, that One might be in your presence from
that far distant Planet, Venus? Yet, if you consider it
for just a moment, to Us who are free of limitations,
distance, as you know it, is not considered. I know it
is not easy for you to comprehend that just yet, but
you will. One day, you will understand, as clearly as
We do how, as you enter into your Freedom which is
your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” you transcend time
and space. Then, the so-called far distant Planets are
so near.
You must realize, precious ones, that the Ascended
Master, as you have been told many times, does not
recognize time—or space. Even this good Messenger,
as he went from place to place with Saint Germain
did not, for they went from one part of the earth
to another in from two to three minutes, in that body
which Saint Germain created for his use. Will you
' 5 *
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 153
try earnestly not to analyze? Just feel—for you there
is no longer time nor space. If you can do that, you
will enter into your complete Freedom so much
more quickly.
Shall I tell you just how I feel to-night? It is as if
We were in a great school room and you were having
your graduation exercises. That really is true. You
are, beloved ones of earth, entering into your Free­
dom! As I speak these words to-night, will you be
kind enough to accept My Radiance, which I pour
forth into your feeling world, to enable you to feel
fully the assurance of that? You are entering now
into your full Freedom. I say to you, that no longer
can human creations bind you in any way.
Oh the joy which floods the room as I speak those
words! It shall act with definite Power, until you fully
realize, feel satisfied and find manifest in your outer
world of activity all the Perfection which is there.
We must know that! You beloved ones have been
willing and have joyfully entered into the require­
ments for this Great Perfection, making a condition
for Our Reception, which you do not yet compre­
hend. You will one day know what that means.
We find the earth ready, willing and humbly ac­
cepting the Great Assistance, which the Wondrous
Kumaras have so long poured forth in Their Mighty
Radiance to the earth. We, Myself included, are but
children in comparison to the Great Kumaras who
154 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
came forth so many hundreds of thousands of years
ago; to assist the earth and to hold it in balance, until
enough of its children could be raised into Perfec­
tion and hold the balance themselves within the earth.
This is being rapidly accomplished now, and ere
long, Their Work will be finished. When it is, there
will be thousands in America who will see Sanat
Kumura stand before them in the tangible, visible
Body—a youth as of sixteen summers.
As you were told to-day, regardless of your silver
hair, regardless of your appearance of age that some­
times seems to weigh heavily upon you; if you but
realized it, you could shatter all appearances and
human accumulation. In a few hours, you could
stand in Eternal Youth, Beauty and Perfection. Man­
kind has forgotten its Dominion; because individuals
have forgotten the Light, the Life, the Intelligence,
the Energy which gives them Life, Eternal Youth and
Beauty. Is it not a pity that mankind has forgotten
this? Life knows no age! Energy knows no age! Sub­
stance knows no age! then what is it which feels age?
Just the limited human concepts; because mankind
has forgotten that everyone is really a Divine Being.
To-night, as I speak to you, please feel the Radi­
ance from each Word entering into your Being to
become All-powerfully active there; that you may
hold the Substance of that which I convey to you All-
powerfully active within you. Oh dear ones, you must
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 155
realize that it is not just the Words which We flash
before the Messenger which are important. They are
but to hold your attention while the great Inner
Work is being done. All words are cups carrying cer­
tain qualities; but the far greater activity is in the
Inner Radiation which goes forth into your world. Is
it necessary for Me to remind you to-night, that in
your acknowledgment of your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” all Its Great Activity takes place from within
out? Therefore the great accomplishment, and greater
percent of it, is accomplished within, before you be­
come aware of it without. Your activity has previously
just reversed that. You have tried to act from without
in, and of course entered into greater and greater lim­
itations; but when you realize that your heart is the
Presence of the “ Mighty I AM ” acting within you,
then you must know that It would produce Perfection
for you; if there were not something acting within
your feeling world which was clothing It with less
than Its full Perfection. Hold close to this now, so
you can have forever dismissed from your feeling
world everything—so not one thing longer limits you.
We are making a tremendous effort to free a cer­
tain number of mankind for that which is to follow!
You beloved ones here, of your own volition have
entered into a joyous willingness to make yourselves
ready for this. Then you invite Us to come and give
every Assistance possible.
156 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
To this beloved brother, We give great, great credit
for having been the means of establishing an activity
with such great volume, through which We can do
certain things that will not only give yourselves Free­
dom, but will spread the Light forth powerfully to
give others Freedom. When I say, “ Freedom,” I do
not mean just one thing; but Complete Freedom from
every limiting thing, that has ever been in your feel­
ing world or its activity.
You, beloved ones, who have entered these won­
drous Closed Groups, have entered into a new world.
It is also quite wonderful to see those, who are really
wonderful, sincerely honest with themselves, yet who
feel that they are not quite ready to enter this Great
Activity. So, We bless all and keep on pouring forth
Our Encouragement to strengthen them, until they
too will feel themselves quite strong enough and
ready, to enter into the fuller and greater Activity
which is their Freedom.
I try to find words to convey My Feeling to you of
the Joy I have in coming into your midst and seeing
such a great Light within you, for only a few short
years ago the atmosphere about you was compara­
tively dense. In 1900, when We came (unknown to
the people of earth) and looked over humanity, We
saw so few whose Light had expanded until It could
be amplified, to give them strength, courage and
Dominion. We found it could not be done then (I am
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 157
taking you especially into My Confidence to-night),
and We had to withdraw. Then, Sanat Kumara said
to Us: “ The time will come, possibly nearer than
you think at present, when You can give the Assist­
ance which is needed.’’ Surely enough, in His Great
Wisdom that day has arrived.
Oh, beloved children of earth, you can scarcely
comprehend, before your Ascension, what you owe
to Our Beloved Saint Germain. He has, because of
His great Courage, brought this Light and Freedom
to you and mankind. Will you remember the descrip­
tion of Him which the Messengers have read to you
from the “ Fire of Creation”? Read it often, dear
hearts, and see what a Mighty Being He is from your
earth. Remember, Saint Germain is a product of your
earth; and in spite of all of Us, He had the Convic­
tion, the Courage, the Strength to stand before a
great Group of Us and say: “ I shall try out that which
I feel!” and His Victory came.
I say this to you to-night, beloved ones, because of
the many people from the orthodox world who can­
not quite understand, why Saint Germain should take
a place with Jesus. Dear ones, Jesus is doing His
Mighty Work and so is Saint Germain. As the be­
loved Charles Sindelar has placed Them hand in
hand in the magazine, so do they act for the children
of earth. Remember that dear hearts! In spite of any
one, Saint Germain must have credit for the Courage
158 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
which led Him to try out that which has become a
success for mankind in setting individuals free.
Unless you do this, you will but delay your Free­
dom. Not that He is even interested whether you
give Him credit or not; but the Law of your Life and
your earth is: that credit must be given where it is
due, and an acknowledgment must come forth from
mankind for what has been accomplished. That Law
of Life for your earth is irrevocable! It is imperative!
because mankind has drawn away from Perfection.
Of their own free will, all individuals must come back
through gratitude and acknowledgment, giving credit
to those who lift them out of the limitations, into
which they have drawn themselves.
Once you understand clearly these Mighty Funda­
mentals, then you will enter much more quickly and
easily into your Freedom. Think of it, beloved chil­
dren of earth! In the Assistance which is given you
to-day, the effort of attainment is a thousand percent
less than it was at the time Saint Germain, and those
of Us Who are assisting, attained Our Freedom and
Ascension. Now mark you, that is comparatively re­
cent. Does a few hundred years seem a long time to
you? Well, a few thousand years does not seem long
to Us. Why does it seem long?
Now, let us come down to your human experi­
ences. Before you entered into this Understanding of
the “ Mighty I AM Presence.” For a moment remind
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 159
yourself of how many times, time—notice—“ time”
hung heavy upon your hands. You did not know just
what to do with yourself. Remember that! Then
what happened? You began to conceive ideas to kill
time. As the Great One, Arcturus, mentioned this
to-day, may I repeat it to you again to-night? Do not
ever use that word or expression again: “ I want to
kill time.” You want to transcend time! Will you
be kind enough to use that expression: “ I want to
transcend time” ? Do you know that to-night, you are
really transcending time and space? Why? Because
your attention is upon Me. I do not consider time
nor space. It no longer exists for Me and that is Why
I am here to-night, to help you to more quickly tran­
scend time and space.
Now, what takes place in this activity. First, you
will find yourself doing the outer activities with a
greater ease and a speed you had not before thought
possible. Then, you will find this, that and the other
thing is accomplished quickly. You will find much
more time to give to your “ Mighty I AM Presence” ;
and when you do have extra time, please do not spend
it in playing bridge and such things. Oh, it is not that
we do not want you to be happy! but see what your
attention is upon! Do you know what is in your
earth’s atmosphere concerning cards, and what your
playing cards represent? The element of gambling.
That is the general consciousness which pervades
i6o ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
mankind, dear ones. Do you want to be a part of that
consciousness? There are many other things through
which you can have great happiness. Now do not
think, that I am trying to take anything away from
you of which you are fond. I am just citing to you
the Law. We do not urge any one to follow what We
say; but We must cite the Law which is acting within
you and your world.
In Our Activity upon Venus, We have the most
wonderful rhythm in the dance and music most ex­
quisite; but never in any of those activities is there a
thought of anything but Perfection; for as one enters
into that great swing or rhythm of ecstasy and en­
joyment, so does one learn to feel the Glories of the
Rhythm of the Universe. Ere long, all broken rhythm
will disappear from your earth; for it has brought
such distress upon mankind in recent years. It has
shattered many hundreds of thousands! It has shat­
tered the emotional bodies, until they were unable
to gather and hold sufficient cohesive activity to main­
tain their health. Thus, has it shattered the forms and
they are lost so far as use to the individual is con­
cerned.
Do you know why the majority of the savages in
the jungle live so short a time? Because of the tom­
tom rhythm that is in their jungle activities. Few live
past middle age. Now and then one, who through
the feeling has conceived a certain part of the Law,
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 161
lives to be sometimes eighty years old or a little more.
Try to comprehend the difference between that
and the former activity. Before the Understanding
of the Ascension was brought into the outer world,
many, many of mankind maintained Life in the body
for two, three, four, five or six hundred years. The
Beloved Cha Ara, Who spoke at one of your Groups
recently, maintained Life in His Body for five hun­
dred years before He made the Ascension; because
He had been One who came into that understanding
through the old activity of the occult law, before it
was My Privilege to set it aside for the earth.
You know of the Messenger’s unyielding stand on
this point and have heard him speak so firmly of that
night in the Royal Teton, when I issued this Decree
for the earth which has gone forth. That Decree
is doing a most wonderful Work for the earth, and I
shall forever bless this good Messenger for the
strength and courage with which he asserted the
Cosmic Authority, with which I give this forth to so
many of mankind. Oh, how greatly We love and give
praise and thanks for his courage and strength to
go forth and carry this Message which means every­
thing to mankind.
That old occult law had to fade from the earth;
because of the wreckage it has wrought in mankind.
I tell you, dear hearts, it has brought forth greater
wreckage into humanity than you will ever know;
162 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
because human concepts had crept in from every
angle; and ofttimes, it was used to hold fear over
mankind instead of to give Freedom. Of course some
of the occult teachers and students who had done
that very thing, were fierce in their attitude against
this good brother; but they could not touch him.
So, dear ones, have all the courage in the world
in calling your “ Mighty I AM Presence” into action.
Stand with firm determination by that which you call
into action, for there is no means possible by which
you can fail—in anything—
when you call your
“ Mighty I AM Presence” into action.
I want to charge into your feeling world, My very
Powerful Conviction that you cannot fail in a single
instance, dear hearts, in your application of your
“ Mighty I AM Presence.” You cannot do it! I will not
accept failure for any one of mankind! Every one of
humanity shall apply this Law of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence” to their Eternal Freedom. I shall stand
by It, for It was decreed that I be that Authority for
the earth, and having sent It forth I stand back of It,
and of all of you until you have your Freedom.
There is naught in human creation that shall ever
stop your Freedom or that shall ever stop the Free­
dom of America. AM ERICA SH ALL BE FREE,
FO REVER! There is naught in humanity that shall
interfere with it. Remember! All that seems to have
such a desire is but an appearance; and you have
A
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 163
been taught to say to all such appearances: “You
have no power,” and they have not!
Oh beloved children of earth, if once you under­
stand the Authority that you have in all appearances
of imperfection or destructive activity, and you say
the moment they appear: “ You have no power” !
then they have not, for you or your America. Do you
not see, beloved children of earth, when you issue
that Mighty Decree, the Power of the Universe rushes
forward into action to fulfill your requirement; be­
cause you are calling for the Freedom of America,
through the Power of the “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
which is a thousand times more powerful than any­
thing that would bring destruction?
See! how you have the full Power and Authority
in issuing these decrees, by saying to every appear­
ance, whether it is individual, city or nation—to every
appearance that is less than Divine Justice: “ You
have no power!” mean it! feel it! and let that Mighty
Decree go forth doing Its Perfect Work. You are yet,
beloved ones, only partially aware of the Powerful
Good which is in your hands in the acceptance of
your Presence, and in the issuing of these decrees.
“ Decree a thing and it shall be so unto you.” Again
feel these words: “ Your outer determination is the
activity of your Inner Will, the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence.” All of you have determination. If you become
angry, have you not plenty of determination? You
164 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
are dauntless for that moment. Then, that same de­
termination released on the constructive side of your
activities becomes many times more powerful; be­
cause it is in agreement with the Law of Life. You
can generate it and call it forth at will. Do not let
your human intellect ever say to you: you cannot
do it. You can, and you do realize it more each day.
Use your determination to hold in obedience every­
thing from your own human intellect, your human
creations, or anyone’s else, which would attempt to
interfere with your decree. Then, you have become
the Master of whatever you call forth into manifesta­
tion and action.
As you advance, Oh beloved ones, in a clearer more
definite understanding of the Power which is within
your hands to use, through the acknowledgment of
your Presence, you cannot make any mistake. There
are a few who have tried to interfere with this Law
and make false accusations against this good brother.
They have been foolish enough to think they could,
through their “ Mighty I AM Presence,” bring de­
struction to him. What nonsense! God help those un­
fortunate creatures who utter falsehood against his
character! We stand back of him and every human
being on the face of this earth that utters aught
against him or his co-worker, shall swallow those
words. Mark what I tell you!
Do you think, when We have found those who
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 165
have been courageous enough to carry forth this Mes­
sage and then some one comes along and tries to be­
smirch their characters, that We shall stand idly by
and see it attempted further? I want you to spread
this word to anybody, who attempts to fill your mind
with such falsehood.
He has been clean and pure enough, to be able
to receive Dictations from Beings, Who for thou­
sands of years have been wholly Pure and Perfect.
That any creature is so foolish, as to attempt to
spread falsehood concerning such an one’s character
is inconceivable. The foolishness of individuals who
have once thought that they could bluff mankind into
obedience to their nefarious work, proves they have
lost their way. No longer does the bluff of human
creation effect the Student of the Light! The pitiful
thing is, that those individuals shall reap the agony
of that which they send forth, and nothing can pre­
vent it; because they have set it into action them­
selves.
I want you to know, Oh beloved ones, that the
Light protects Its Own! You are Children of the
Light—“The Light of God that never fails’’!
Through your call and the use of the Violet Con­
suming Flame to keep all creation which has been
drawn about you consumed before it finds expres­
sion, you will never find anything in the world that
can harm you.
i66 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
Remember! precious ones, that anything, accident
or otherwise which happens to an individual, who
has come into the Understanding of the “ I AM Pres­
ence,” can only come because there has not been suffi­
cient use of the Violet Consuming Flame, to keep the
discordant creation—the past creation—dissolved as
fast as it comes to the surface. That is the only reason.
Now as mankind is coming more and more to under­
stand the imperative need of calling the Presence into
action, to use the Violet Consuming Flame for them,
Students and individuals will always find themselves
on guard and protected.
I thank you beloved ones, and in the Great Love
of My Being, I pour forth to you your Freedom, your
Invincible Protection, your quick Journey into Free­
dom from all limitations and your Ascension. Will
you not accept that from Me? To all, I say, do all
your understanding permits to co-operate and have
It as quickly as possible. I thank you.
The Ascended Master, Jesus
—
M R . R A Y B O R N ’ S D I S C O U R S E
th e Andrew’s glendale 100% group
MARCH 2 2 , 1937
M
OST beloved Students of the Light and of
the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” I consider
it a very great privilege and joy to voice
to-night that which has meant so much to Me. Not
just in the accomplishment of the Ascension and My
Freedom through it; but as I look upon the years,
that passed before, I see how much I was actually
living in accordance with the Law, which I did not
outwardly understand then.
I feel to-night, that I should be able to convey
to you, how you too, may have this same great Free­
dom of the Ascension, through those very experiences
which were Mine. I know now, that I intuitively
knew, wholly through the Inner Prompting of the
Presence that gave Me Life, the need of outer success
in Life. I knew the need was to be humble, to be kind,
yet firm in that which I knew to be right.
After the Ascension, I was able to see how that
Great Law of My “ Mighty I AM Presence” was act­
ing through Me unknowingly by kindness. A natural
quality within my human form kept Me sufficiently
harmonized and there involuntarily flowed through
167
170 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
Simply say to all appearances: “ You have no
more power in my world! I refuse acceptance of
every discordant limiting appearance! ‘Mighty I AM
Presence’ take charge and fill my world with Your
Activity, with Your Directing Intelligence! Release
from Your Treasure-house my limitless supply
of money and whatever I require! release from Your
Great Fountain of Youth, my eternal Perfection and
Beauty.” Ladies and gentlemen also should all do
this, if they wish. It is not vanity to wish to be lovely
to look upon.
I say to you blessed ones and the blessed young
people that are here; it is a great honor to your Won­
drous Presence to maintain all the beauty and Per­
fection you can. There is no limit to what your
Presence will do for you in that respect. Give your
Presence the great honor of releasing Its Infinite Sup­
ply of every good thing! Give It the great honor of fill­
ing you with Its Eternal Perfect Health, which It
holds for you.
Think of it, beloved ones! that Great Stream of
Energy flowing into your body and anchored within
your heart is all Perfection and Power. Just feel that
Mighty Energy expanding into every cell of your
body. See! you could not have ill health, you could
not have disturbance of any kind longer in your body,
if you would just really do that.
Now notice, if you will pardon My reference to
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 171
My family: Up until the change took place with Mrs.
Rayborn, which really was not illness, and I know it
now; there never had been one moment’s illness in
our family. I know to-day, it was because of the har­
mony maintained in the feelings. It allowed the pure
energy of the Presence to do Its Perfect Work at the
time, just naturally.
This is what you are coming to now dear ones in
your call to the Presence. Ere long, you will find a
sufficiently intensified volume of energy from your
Presence, flowing in and through your body, to keep
out, or in other words to keep repelled from your
human form, every discordant thing, and what a joy­
ous wonderful thing that is.
I cite this to you tonight, for the benefit and bless­
ing of these blessed ones who have started the ac­
tivity here; that you, and the young people who are
being blessed by it, may know what complete har­
mony in your activity means. It means success in
every single effort of the outer activity, for if your
feeling world is harmonious, every one who touches
its Radiance will love you, because there is not any­
thing repellent in it.
If there be discordant and ugly feelings in your
feeling world, any one coming near you, whether
they be sensitive or not, cannot help but feel that
repellent force. Discord is always repellent. Har­
mony is always attractive and constantly draws all
172 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
good to you like a Great Magnet. That was what
made My Success in the outer world of activity. I
did not make any special effort so to speak, but I
know now dear ones, it was because of the natural
harmony acting within My feeling world, which at­
tracted things to me—wealth, health, and those who
served me harmoniously and wonderfully.
You know, from the human sense, a mine is about
the most difficult place for people to maintain har­
mony and order in the feeling world, because of the
old momentum which has been gained in that ac­
tivity; but there was complete harmony maintained
in our experience. Those men who were, and are still
there, would lay down their lives for Me, if they
thought it were necessary. They do not know of My
Ascension yet. They think I am just travelling in
foreign lands. Well it may be foreign, but very beau­
tiful; yet it could hardly be called “ foreign lands,”
for in that Great Octave of Life is Our Real Home.
Oh beloved ones, how I long to-night to just lift
you all up into Our Octave where you suddenly be­
come aware of all Beauty and Perfection. As the be­
loved one sang, the “ Fragrance of the Lily” to-night,
(Mrs. Rogers over the Radio) I thought: Oh, how
wonderful is the natural Fragrance of those Higher
Octaves of Light; when from everyone goes forth that
Radiance and Fragrance as of some rare flower.
Many of you, who are still here in human form, will
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 173
begin to radiate that fragrance as of a rare flower, in
the acknowledgment of your Presence. You cannot
help it.
We do see clearly the progress, advancement and
expansion of the Light within your hearts. What a
joy, what an encouragement it is to Us to see man­
kind at last becoming consciously aware of its own
Dominion. Through it, the individual holds his own
Scepter of Power in his hand, wielding It to give him
Freedom from limitation. Thus, he attains his As­
cension.
Who could have believed, three years before My
Ascension, what was to come? I could have no more
believed that such a thing was possible than anything
in the world. This good brother came into My home
and then so shortly after, Saint Germain came in His
Tangible Body. On the first visit, We talked for some
hours. In His Presence, all seemed so natural. There
was not a single feeling within Me of questioning,
even of the many wonderful things He said to Me.
On that first visit, He said to Me: “ My brother,
Mrs. Rayborn is not dead, there is no such thing. I
have assisted her to make the Ascension.” I said to
Him: “ What is that?” He replied: “ Do you not be­
lieve in the Ascension of Jesus?” “ Well” I answered,
“ I think I do.”
Now remember, beloved ones, I was not what you
would call a church individual; but I always believed
174 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
in right, justice and kindliness. However, when He
said that to me—all the time of course, He was pour­
ing His Wondrous Presence and Assistance into and
through My Being. As he mentioned the various
things, all seemed just as natural as could be. There
was never a doubt or a question in my mind, as He
presented the various points of activity.
We find so many blessed ones to-day, who, when
they become aware of the “ Mighty I AM Presence”
have no doubts or questions. They just know It is
true. Every heart in human form on earth knows,
that the Chart of the Presence is true and correct.
Many times the intellect still dominates enough, so it
overrules the heart temporarily, and makes the in­
dividual have doubts or questioning as to Its Reality.
Once any individual has looked upon that Chart, all
human doubt and questioning must cease and will
disappear; because every heart knows Its own great
Reality and Perfection. Every heart knows that
Mighty Presence is there and the opportunity of call­
ing your attention to It, is the most wonderful thing
which ever could come to mankind anywhere.
When Saint Germain said to Me: “ You shall meet
Mrs. Rayborn ere long, and it is possible for you to
make the Ascension, with My Assistance”—can you
just feel My feeling now? I just accepted it, never
questioning how or anything about it. I just accepted
it and like a child, I said to him: “ Well whatever I
ASCENDED M A S T E R DISCOURSES 175
can do, you can depend on me I will do to assist.”
When We went to the Cave of Symbols and for the
first time Mrs. Rayborn came in Her Wondrous As­
cended Body, as tangible as Our own physical bodies,
no happiness it seemed to me, ever could excel it in
any way.
I want you to feel how real all of this is which Our
Blessed Wondrous Saint Germain has brought to
you. We are the living proof of all He has brought
to you, even in so short a time. I want you to feel
this. In your outer intellect, you do not realize what
your Presence might do for you in a given time or
quickly. I did not know what was to happen, any
more than this good brother, assisting in the As­
cension on Mount Shasta, had any idea of what he
experienced. That is why We in every way try to
convey this into your feeling world for in no wise,
beloved ones, limit yourselves or what the Presence
can do in, through and for you. Watch out for that,
and do not let your human feeling limit you in any
way.
Precious ones, in your Decrees and songs to-night,
considering the number of individuals here, it was
simply amazing the Power and Energy that you re­
leased. I congratulate you with all My Heart. Never
weary in the wondrous work which you are doing
here in your Group. We, from time to time, will en­
deavor to convey to you certain Qualities, certain
176 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
Activities that you may not just be aware of for the
time being. Yet all of a sudden, you will find them
coming into outer manifestation in your activity as
you go forward.
During this time before the wonderful class (Pan
Pacific Auditorium) there will be a great joy, for
really a great preparation is going on within you; so
that you will comprehend and receive more perhaps
from this class than all that have gone before. Does
that sound rather incredible? It is not, because as
you advance in the expansion of the Light which
illumines the mind, you will find a greater clearness
acting, a luminous comprehension, as it were.
Point after point of vital importance, you will
grasp like that, (quick wave of hand) hold fast to it
and never let it get away; because all these Qualities
charged into your feeling world by Us, Who are en­
deavoring so earnestly to give forth the greatest pos­
sible Assistance, will always remain active there. It
is not an activity that can ever be lost to you. Thus,
a sincere effort is being made before this class to do
this; for We want you blessed ones in Los Angeles,
on the return of the Messengers, to be prepared for
certain things which We hope to find manifest.
Would you say that this is a promise? Not quite.
Yet who knows? Oh beloved ones, when We have
gained such complete Freedom and see the great Love
and sincerity in the hearts of those yet in embodi-
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 177
ment; do you think there is anything in the world,
that We would not do which is within the Great Law,
to give you Assistance to the same Freedom? Oh, how
We long to see you absolutely free, standing with Us.
To-night, there is a marvelous activity, because of
the transformation which is taking place within your
Inner feeling world. It is a boundless joy to Me and
to Others Who are present. Oh dear ones, this is no
idle fancy! but a Real and mighty, glorious Activity
that is going on within you precious ones, to your
complete and Wondrous Freedom. Oh blessed ones,
go forward with great firm determination to have
your Freedom and your birthright! to have all that
your “ Mighty I AM Presence” has held so long, in
Its Treasure-house for you.
While I have this opportunity to-night, I want
to say a word to this good brother. I know you will
not mind our heart to heart talk. I want him to know,
that I have not forgotten all that came to Me through
him; for had he not come into My home, perhaps all
might have been different. Saint Germain, eternal
blessings be upon Him, knew and brought this good
brother to Me as he has brought him to you. To the
other blessed Messenger, you must feel how great is
My Gratitude.
Dear ones, I know this brother seems so natural
and like you. Yet could you see what is constantly
going on within his outer garment, you would be
178 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
surprised. This is why, dear ones, We can pour forth
such a Radiance to you and into your feeling world,
to give you such great Assistance. Somehow to-night,
I feel that I can say things to you in this respect which
I would not have done perhaps otherwise. Therefore,
you must know, I feel that We are just like a family
discussing the Perfection of Life. Will you not feel
that too?
Just with such a great joy, accept into your feeling
world your complete Freedom from all limitations;
your absolute Self-control and Mastery over all con­
ditions in your feeling world. Go forth from to-night,
glorified by the full consciousness of your Mastery
over your world, self and conditions! May you keep
all so perfectly harmonious, that there will quickly
flood forth from your Presence, the purifying activity
which allows the full Dominion of your Presence to
act at all times. Then, you will not need any one in
the world, to tell you the joy of having come to know
your “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
We are so Real, dear ones! One day, when you
come to shake hands and visit with Us in the visible,
tangible Body, you will see We are very Real! We
are Real Substance. This is what I want you to know:
that, as you come to the point where you make the
Ascension, you take the refined human body with
you. There is nothing left behind. As it is raised and
absorbed into the Higher Mental Body, the Great
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 179
Transformation takes place. The Great Ray of Light
descends and the finer purified human form is ab­
sorbed into the Higher Mental Body. Then, It as­
cends into the Electronic Body and you become the
Ascended Being, as was My great Joy and Privilege.
You never again after the Ascension come into em­
bodiment as you are to-day. It is the end of all human
pilgrimage on earth. Then, in that great purified
Eternal Light Body of Substance, you go forward any­
where in the Universe you choose, receiving all Wis­
dom and Power first hand. You may call forth any
time, anywhere, all you require to perform any given
service upon the earth or on any other planet.
Do you grasp the fulness of this? I hope I will be
able to help you do so to-night. Do you grasp how
and what eternal Freedom, the Ascension means? You
are not only free from the limitations of earth; but
you can go in your Ascended Body and minister to
the people of earth in such great Power and Activity.
You can also go anywhere in the Universe and receive
first hand, through actual experience, any Knowl­
edge or Wisdom that you seek. Then, do you not see
how the Ascended Master is the greatest possible As­
sistance to the children of earth? They are almost
unknown to mankind. Through the Kumaras, as the
Vanguard from Venus, has mankind been sustained
throughout all these hundreds of thousands of years—
for more than four million years. Yet mankind, after
i8o ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
every great height has been reached, has responded
to the pull of the human senses; for that pull was still
great enough to draw individuals again into limi­
tations.
Is it not an appalling thing to think that mankind
could have come into a state where the outer pull
of the senses was the controlling force; in spue of
this great Infinite Power and Light which beats every
heart? Yet it was so. It has been so up until now,
when the Great Cosmic Light has come to the assist­
ance of mankind and is making possible this
Achievement.
Does it seem incredible when I say to you to-night,
that more than two-thirds of humanity who become
aware of the “ Mighty I AM Presence” in this embodi­
ment, will either free themselves in this embodiment
or the next? Think of it, beloved ones, in comparison
with that which has been attained up to this time!
The Ascensions have been at most only two a year,
even in the Retreats of the world.
Now to-day, in this Understanding of the “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” which Saint Germain has brought
forth, there will be hundreds even in this embodi­
ment who will make the Ascension. Then in the next
embodiment there will be thousands who will ac­
complish it! It is almost an inconceivable thing to
the average intellect, which has not been raised into
this Consciousness and Understanding of the Pres-
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 181
ence; but such is the Truth. Blessed ones, you have
a privilege to-day that never has been known before
on the earth.
To-night, in seeing your wonderful sincere efforts
and activity, I was the One chosen to come forth and
speak My Heart to you, by flashing these Words be­
fore this good brother. I feel it a great privilege and
joy. Will you accept that which I have endeavored to
pour forth into your feeling world? Will you accept
the Perfection of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
all-powerfully active within you and your outer
world of activity; knowing that from this day forth,
you cannot be deprived of anything which you re­
quire for use in your Service of the Light?
I am so grateful for these young people who are
here. What a wonderful thing for them to be willing
to enter into your closed Group. Do you not see, be­
loved ones, that it is a most amazing thing from the
human sense to find such lovely young people will­
ing to do that—to abide by these regulations and re­
quirements? Yet how great, Oh how great, will be
their reward and blessing!
Oh beloved, blessed ones, rejoice forever that this
Knowledge of the “ Mighty I AM Presence” has been
brought to you; that you have the privilege of calling
Its Mighty Intelligent Energy into action, to produce
Perfection for you and your world; to make every­
thing harmonious. See, as you go forward in the ex-
182 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
pansion of your Light each day, how everything be­
comes more and more harmonious in and about you;
as you continue to call your Wondrous Presence forth
into action. Do you not see, beloved ones, there is
naught of human creation that can stand before the
Onrush of this Mighty Energy, which you call forth
from the Presence? Not a thing that can.
Do not accept anything as longer having power to
interfere with it. I plead with you, to all human ap­
pearances say with calm firmness: You have no power!
you cannot longer interfere with my world! Stand
aside! and let the Glory of my Presence do Its Perfect
Work! Then, you will go forward so quickly, into
the great Eternal Freedom which every heart knows
and craves.
To-night, in the Infinite Blessing of your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” and the Great Host of Ascended
Masters, I call forth the Perfection of the “ Mighty
I AM Presence” of each one of you, into full com­
mand and action in your Life and world; to hold Its
Dominion in mind and body; to produce Its Perfec­
tion there! to quickly expand the Light within your
heart, until its All-powerful Radiance fills you and
your world; that every impurity and imperfection
be swept out of your mind, body, world and activity!
Then, you stand glorified, the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” in action.
Mrs. Rayborn, Rex, Nada, Bob and Pearl all join
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 183
Me in pouring forth Their Love to you, and Their
full Consciousness of your Victory and Freedom. As
you go forward, remember, We shall always stand by,
to give every Assistance that is possible for your com­
plete Freedom, from everything that has bound you
in the outer world. Be firm! be determined! yield not
an inch to human appearances! and as you withdraw
from them all power, then in the full Power of your
Presence remember: God, the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” which beats your heart, is your certain Vic­
tory. I thank you.
M E T A ’ S D I S C O U R S E
“ i a m ” school
MARCH 23, 1937
(Meta is the Mother of the Ascended Master,
Cha Ara.)
B
ELOVED children whose home is in the Light,
. We reach forth Our Loving Arms to hold you
' in Our Embrace of Light, in your conscious
endeavor to free yourselves from human creation and
limitation. Well do I know what that means, and what
Happiness is in store for you as in your great firm
determination, you continue to call for the Great
Loving powerful Activity of your ‘‘Mighty I AM
Presence” ; to flood your mind, body and world, and
do for you that which your Presence alone is able to
accomplish. Then in every effort that you make, you
find in that achievement a permanently attained and
established activity; for you do not have to keep re­
peating it, because once accomplished It stands there
serving you.
You, who are having this Knowledge of the Pres­
ence, your “ Mighty I AM ,” are fortunate above all
children of earth. You become a Great Golden Sun as
well, for you have an All-powerful Scepter of Do­
minion within your grasp to use. Any one of you
184
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 185
children from four, five or six years can and will
begin to use that Scepter with definite precision. This
means the gaining of a momentum and achievement
which is dauntless before all mankind.
We, all of Us, who have reached the Ascended
State, beloved ones, have gone identically the same
way. There is but One Road to the Eternal Perfec­
tion and Freedom for mankind! It is this identical
Knowledge of the Presence which Saint Germain has
brought forth. There is no other road in all the Uni­
verse. Every one of Us had to follow these same steps
which He has brought to you, so simplified.
In Our time, the attainment was far more com­
plicated, than the application you have to-day in the
outer experience. Yet, in that Great Simplicity, those
Great Ones from Venus assisted in bringing It forth.
May I remind you, who are here to-night, of the state­
ment of the Great Master from Venus, when the ar­
rangement was made for these books to go forth?
He said emphatically, that these books must go forth
in a simple language which the layman could under­
stand—free from all technical terms; and the Great
Wisdom of His Decree has in thousands of ways been
made manifest already. Even the children are able to
apply this Law, quite as well as the grown people; and
with quite as firm definite results, that proves the
Ascended Masters’ Wisdom which brought forth the
“ I AM ” Instruction in this simplicity. It is free from
1 86 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
all old terminology which has been so confusing to
mankind in the various things that have come forth
before, because each in itself has had different termi­
nology.
Observe the people of India and Persia where We
gained Our Victory; of the Orient; of the various
parts of the world! Never—anywhere—has this Great
Knowledge come forth so simplified and so purified,
as Saint Germain has given It to you. Any human
being on the face of the earth, who will earnestly with
determination apply these Laws, according to the
Direction He has given, and put out of the mind all
previous concepts, will have such magnificent results,
as no one on the earth could imagine, until he tries
it out.
To-night, it is My Great Joy while I am talking to
you—and that is Our reason for coming forth in the
Groups—to pour forth Our Radiance and Closeness.
It is just as though We took each one of you individ­
ually, in Our Arms in the physical form and held you
close, that you might know how R EA L We are. One
day, you will know there is nothing intangible about
Us.
You mothers and fathers! I am a Mother of three
Children. The Master Cha Ara, Who dictated to you
recently, is My Son, and there are two other Children
Who are not known in the outer world, as He is. The
three Children did not make their Ascension until
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 187
after I did, but all of Our family did make the As­
cension. As soon as I had made Mine, I was able to
render Assistance to Them and their willing obedi­
ence enabled Them to quickly win the Ascension,
after My Achievement.
Therefore, dear ones, when We speak to you in
this manner, you cannot help but feel Our Reality
and the Truth of which We speak; because It
is the Truth and your heart knows the Truth in
spite of your intellect. This is the thing, precious
ones, that every earnest “ I AM ” Student will come
to understand so very vividly. It is why this good Mes­
senger has said to the class so many times: ‘‘Any one
without a spark of faith, who will with earnest sin­
cerity begin to call the ‘Mighty I AM Presence’ into
action, will have all the proof in the world he wants—
which will give him faith—if he does not have it
already.” This is a most astounding Statement to
make, but it is true. The world has tried to live on
faith without Understanding. Its supply appears
sometimes and sometimes it does not.
This is what has distressed mankind so greatly;
because in prayer, as the orthodox world has known
of it, sometimes the feeling was intensely poured
forth in the prayer, which released the Power of the
Presence to fulfill it, but not always. There have been
a great many prayers that have not been answered.
Now in your Knowledge and call to the “ Mighty I
1 88 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
AM Presence,” which is the greatest Power in the
Universe, you cannot fail to have an answer. Stand
by your Presence, which is your Life and know this
Ascended Master Understanding, beloved ones! It
does not require faith! You have the Understanding
which knows where the Power-house is—the Intel­
ligence—and knows positively, that you are really a
part of It. It being anchored within you, within your
heart, then you know you have Its Authority there.
Not even your intellect can interfere with your
earnest call, if you will make the call.
If you will hold fast to this, you will find there will
never be a single failure in your entire experience
through your call to the Presence. You must know
by this time, that your heart is a part of your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” anchored within—acting within your
human form—
which knows all the Perfection there
is. You have your Higher Mental Body, which is your
Selective Discriminating Intelligence. It is only too
delighted to release from the Presence everything
you require. It knows exactly what you require for
any given purpose. When We came to know that and
after We had made earnest application, We began
to find, that We were actually speaking to that Pres­
ence and often audibly.
We found We could receive Its Instruction direct.
We found that a certain intimation would be given.
Then, We would release certain currents of energy
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 189
and they would do certain things in Our forms. Then,
We found that by a Great Flood of Light from the
Presence, We could sweep out of Our minds and
bodies every discordant thing. Always in the begin­
ning of the awakening of the people to this, is
the use of the Violet Consuming Flame given to
them; through which, if they be determined and
sincere, they can purify and consume all their previ­
ous human accumulation. If used earnestly and
sincerely with determination for a short time, it does
not take years to enable you to be free.
Beloved ones, if you are earnest enough, you will
use this Violet Consuming Flame to dissolve and
consume every bit of discordant creation, which has
been drawn about you throughout the centuries.
That is the Magnificent Mercy of the Presence to
mankind today. No matter how great the mistakes
have been, by the constant use of the Violet Consum­
ing Flame, you can dissolve and consume every dis­
cordant thing, which you have drawn into your
world through the centuries. Beloved ones, this is
what We are trying so earnestly to convey into your
feeling world. It does not require long periods of
time to do this. If you will do it earnestly, you will
feel the results in yourself, a lightness in your human
forms, and a Freedom which will prove your accom­
plishment to you, in the use of the Violet Consum­
ing Flame.
190 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
Now beloved ones, this is the first fundamental
activity. As you use the Violet Consuming Flame, It
causes the Presence to set It into action and keeps
It sustained, when your mind is on something else.
The Violet Consuming Flame acts. You do not have
to set aside a few moments several times a day, while
you are accepting Its Activity. Call the Presence to
sustain Its Activity and keep It going on all the time,
until every particle of your discordant accumulation
of the centuries is dissolved and consumed.
In this way, dear hearts, you can so quickly free
yourselves. I plead with you, precious ones, call your
“ Mighty I AM Presence” into action, to do this with
Great Power and Speed that you may be free. (You
will pardon me, Lady Betty, if I talk too fast.) Dear
ones, you can accomplish anything that your hearts
desire for your Freedom, in this acknowledgment of
the Presence. Do not let anything cause you to feel
otherwise!
Now remember, precious ones, you must stand
guard over your world! With the use of the Violet
Consuming Flame, and the Tube of Light, which
you have learned to draw forth into action, you make
yourselves invincible to the further discord of the
outer world. Thus, as the Violet Consuming Flame
consumes all that has been drawn into your world,
you stand free! Then, when you call your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” into action, Its Power can release
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 191
with perhaps twenty, thirty or forty times more speed
than It does before you use the Violet Consuming
Flame enough, to dissolve the human accumulation
which has been drawn about you. You do not know
in the outer what is there, and it is not necessary to
know. Fortunately for you, you do not; but when you
call the Presence into action to consume your human
accumulation, it is done completely. Then you will
never have to look upon it.
We have called to the Divine Director and those
directly in charge of that activity, to impel you so
earnestly and powerfully to do this; so you will never
have to look upon any single part of your human
discordant creation. If you once knew the Mercy
which the use of the Violet Consuming Flame is to
mankind, you would sing praises forever. In those
earlier centuries, the students never attained with­
out looking upon some of their own human creation,
and it was a most unhappy thing. We had to do it.
Having discovered the way to avoid it, do you wonder
We plead with mankind to believe Us and prove Us;
that they may avoid many difficult things, which We
had to go through in Our Attainment and Achieve­
ment?
In the beginning of Our Freedom, the great para­
mount idea was to maintain Life in the body, over
long periods of time. I had maintained Youth and
Perfection in My Body for more than five hundred
192 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
years, before I made the Ascension. My Son, Cha
Ara, had maintained Youth and Perfection in His
Body for more than three hundred years, before His
Ascension. In those earlier centuries the great para­
mount idea was to be able to do that. To-day among
mankind, in One Great Sweeping Activity in the
acknowledgement of the Presence, the individual
goes forth into his eternal Freedom, Victory and As­
cension with a speed almost inconceivable compared
to the time the Beloved Lady Master, Nada, made
Her Ascension.
Oh dear, precious ones, We want so earnestly to
convey to you the privilege which you have to-day,
transcendent beyond anything that has ever been
known in the world. We have worked for hundreds
of years, waiting for the time when this could be
brought forth to mankind, that the great mass of
mankind could understand It. Oh, I am sure you all
appreciate how magnificent and wonderful It is.
That there is a single one of mankind to-day, who
is not yet ready to accept this great magnificent
simplicity and Freedom which is brought forth to
them, seems incredible. In the patience of waiting
hundreds of years for this point, a few months or few
years ought to be easy to wait; for the rest of man­
kind to suddenly awaken to their “ Mighty I AM
Presence” and have Its Freedom and Blessing which
this brings.
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 193
Now, dear ones, will you not be more and more
in earnest and determined every day? I think of that
day so long ago, as you think of time, when My Chil­
dren were like these. It was quickly, even in that
time, under Our Instruction and Direction that
They were able to set Themselves free. It is true
in the outer world at that time, They perhaps did
not have as much charged into the atmosphere about
Them, as the children do to-day, because We were in
a far less densely populated part of the country.
Dear ones, in a day, not so far distant, mankind will
learn to live again in homes—not in buildings where
hundreds of people live in one building. Where one
or two individuals live in a building which is charged
with discord, those persons necessarily have a battle
to hold their own atmosphere free from that charge
of discordant limitation about them. However, this
is the Truth, if one chose to make the effort: You
may take a twenty-apartment building and one fam­
ily in it could begin filling the building with abso­
lute Harmony and Happiness. They could hold it
there, just for the joy of calling the Presence into
action, to prove for themselves that they could do it.
Even people without understanding would respond
to the feeling with which the building would be
charged.
This is why, precious ones, We ask you and the
Messengers have asked you almost from the begin-
194 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
ning: not to let one morning pass that you do not
raise your hands to the Presence, and just like you
reached into the Great Substance of Light from the
Ascended Masters’ Octave of Life, charge the walls
of the room with this Pure Substance of the “ Mighty
I AM Presence.” Charge It to be sustained and con­
tinually pour forth that purifying harmonious Radi­
ance to every one who enters. Beloved ones, if you
would only do that!
These precious ones (Mr. and Mrs. David Lucas)
have been doing that in the school, until the Radiance
is wonderful and beautiful. We love to give Assist­
ance by amplifying every sincere effort of that kind.
Therefore, you can make the atmosphere wonder­
ful, through just charging, so every one who enters
and touches it feels the harmony and freedom all
about him, where discord was just a few moments
before.
You know it is so easy to forget discord, if you only
will; but it is not so easy, if you do not want to. You
have free will, precious ones, do not forget it! You are
the decreer for your world, your business and your
activity! What you decree for yourself, your business,
your home, must come forth, if you do not allow it to
be interrupted by discord in your own feelings. It
is a Law, the Great Law of Life, precious ones. Oh,
once the Students of the “ I AM ” begin to realize and
understand, that whatever they fix their attention on,
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 195
which is constructive, will be successful; will bring in
supply of all required for their happiness and com­
fort; will give them abundance of all they wish to
give in service to the Light!
I want you to feel to-night, Oh, Our Great Close­
ness; the Great Reality of the Ascended Masters, the
Legion of Light and the Great Cosmic Beings, Who
are now sweeping the Great Cosmic Light into the
earth. Feel how close and how Real It is! You have
become a part of it! Do not let anything cause you to
feel longer, that you are not a part of this Great
Cosmic Light Which is Riling the earth. Beside your
call to your own Presence, glorify the Assistance of
this Great Cosmic Light. Why?
I do not recall that you have had this particular
point explained to you, but to-night let Us take it up
definitely. Why, beside your call to the “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” are you receiving a definite and powerful
Assistance from the Great Cosmic Light, which is
flooding the earth? Because your own Light within
your heart is a Magnet for the drawing of this Great
Cosmic Light to you at your point in the Universe.
Then do you not see, how again, It is the Great Benef­
icent Law that is assisting you without limit? Surely,
you must understand and comprehend how great
is your ability in that respect.
I repeat again and again and again to you: Never
in the history of the world has such an opportunity
A
196 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
been offered mankind! You are receiving, Oh pre­
cious ones, brought to you in the comfort of your
own homes, so to speak, that Knowledge which
human beings a few centuries ago travelled over
the earth hundreds of miles on foot to reach.
Do you realize, precious ones, how before
and after Jesus’ ministry, mankind made pil­
grimages everywhere, to try to make contact with
those who knew the Law. Yet in those very days, there
was only a fragment of This Law given into the outer
world, which you have to-day as a free Gift of Love.
I want you to-night, if I may help you, to realize
fully the marvelous blessing that is at your door;
which has entered into your world; for you are no
longer subject to any limitations, through any mis­
takes which you have made. Feel that for a moment
deeply. You are not subject longer to any limitations,
no matter what your mistakes have been. If you will
earnestly call on the Law of Forgiveness; call the use
of the Violet Consuming Flame into action; call the
Presence to place about you the Tube of Light; then
you have fulfilled the requirements. You have ful­
filled the requirements of the Great Law, and the
Great Law which is “ the Light of God that never
fails” must respond to you—Its Own. You are not
separate, beloved ones, from the Life which beats
your heart.
Remind yourself of this often. Sometimes, when
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 197
something of human discord touches you from with­
out, draw yourself up; straighten your spine; and say
with great calm serenity: “ Stop this nonsense!
‘Mighty I AM Presence’ you are in command here!
Silence every human thing! take command and direct
me by Your Mighty Intelligence! see that I do not
make a single mistake. See that my human gives
obedience in every way.” Then, you set the Great
Law into action—precious ones, the Law of the Uni­
verse in action—your Law of Life! to produce what
you require, and It cannot fail.
This is why beloved children, I want you to know
that you too can produce the same wonderful activity
in your Life, which We have. Before five years are
over your heads, you can have your Life so filled with
harmony and happiness, that every one who touches
you will love you. Everywhere you move, all will love
to serve you; and even the grown-ups can do that, if
they will. As you call your Mighty Presence into ac­
tion, people will love to serve, for that is where
Divinity enters into the activity of the earth. Think!
within the natural Life span of these precious chil­
dren here, there will come such Perfection into this
world, as you could scarcely conceive, even to-day.
Remember, precious ones, the Great Cosmic Law
makes no mistakes! When this beloved Messenger
saw upon the Great Cosmic Screen, seventy years of
the future of America, those Great Ascended Masters
ig8 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
make no mistakes! In this great call to the “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” and the Great Host of Ascended
Masters, to take command of America and the world,
do not be dismayed when human discordant appear­
ances continue to find expression for a time. Do not
be dismayed, but go on, and on, and on, calling your
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” into action to take com­
mand of America, its people and its activities; to pro­
duce Perfection and hold Its Dominion forever. Thus,
as We go forth in the mental and feeling world of
mankind everywhere; soon thousands and thousands
will take up that Mighty Decree and compel Perfec­
tion to be the directing Intelligence of our govern­
ment—
your government, and bless the earth with It.
Please remember when the Mighty Arcturus said:
“ If it be necessary for the protection of mankind,
that Light as of a Thousand Suns will descend into
the earth, dissolve and consume all human discord
and selfishness from the planet,” He knew whereof
He spoke. Mankind must be preserved, until the
power of the Incoming Golden Age can find Its full
Dominion; for the earth must become the Light
which the Great Cosmic Law has decreed. It must
expand the Light and send It forth!
It is no longer a matter of human requirements or
activity; but the Great Cosmic Light has said: “ The
earth must blaze forth more Light” ! and so it shall
be! All those, who will co-operate with that Great
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 199
Law, will find such expansion of their Light, that
no longer will they be aware of any discordant thing.
They will move in the world untouched by human
discord. As they pour forth the Great Radiance of
Love from their “ Mighty I AM Presence,” It becomes
so powerful that nothing else can come in. They then
move in the world untouched by discord, pouring
forth their Light and Love everywhere, until all are
free.
See how great your privilege is, Oh precious ones,
not only in having your own Freedom, but in the
Blessing you can pour forth to the rest of mankind,
who are struggling, struggling, struggling. Oh pre­
cious ones, you know what your own struggles have
been, all so unnecessary; just because you had forgot­
ten and did not understand any longer. Will you not
enter with great and full joy into this Freedom which
is yours now; and be the Perfection of your “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” constantly called forth into action
by you?
Now beloved ones, remember, beside these two
activities of calling your Presence into action and the
Assistance of the Great Cosmic Light, around your
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” as shown by the circle of
color on the Chart, is your own accumulation of good,
which the Presence has drawn there and holds for
you. It is your accumulation of good through the
centuries. Once you have given sufficient attention
200 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
to your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” then that good
will be released into your outer use, for It is the
three-fold Activity of the Mighty Unfed Flame—the
most powerful Activity which can be given into the
use of the children of earth.
One day, possibly in three places in your America,
will stand visible to all, that Mighty Unfed Flame!
Then, you will not require human laws in your land
to hold all in obedience; but because of the Great
Light within themselves, all will give natural and
willing obedience; as they did in the civilization in
South America, referred to as the Buried Cities of
the Amazon; as they did in the seventy thousand year
civilization, in which Saint Germain was the Ruler.
All of that great Perfection will come again, on even
a spiral higher in Its Great Perfection. This time It is
to be eternally sustained.
So, you of to-day are living in a period and have a
privilege unparalleled on earth. Will you not keep
yourselves reminded of this? For your precious chil­
dren, will you not call their “ Mighty I AM Presence”
to take command of each mind and body; produce
Its Perfection and hold Its Dominion there; filling
their lives with the Beauty and Perfection which the
Presence holds for them? No matter what the provo­
cation, hold your own feelings always harmonious.
Then see how quickly your homes, your lives, will
be filled with the Glory of your Presence, which is
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES noi
Divine Love in action; and pour out through all con­
cerned, into your world and all that touches it.
My precious ones, may I just take a few moments
longer to call your attention to an activity that We
have seen manifest through the Messengers. In vari­
ous places they have been, such inharmony and con­
fusion reigned; but just as quickly as they came all
that subsided and disappeared. You in Los Angeles
at one time, saw the activity of just such great chaos.
You saw, when they returned, how quickly it dis­
solved and disappeared. It can be so in your individ­
ual Life, just the same. The Presence did it then.
The Presence will do it individually. When the
blessed ones went to San Francisco, confusion was
reigning there, through unfortunate individuals who
intruded themselves. Again, wonderful blessing and
happiness reigns. So it is everywhere. Any place there
is one or more who can stand firm and unyielding, in
the Activity of their “ Mighty I AM Presence,” Its Ra­
diance goes forth without limit, and performs Its
Miracles of harmonious Activity. This is what I want
you to feel, if you will; that you too are a Pillar of
Light moving in your world, whose Radiance from
the Presence is so strong, that no discord can exist in
the world about you. As you determine, decree and
feel this, so does it come about and cause it to be eter­
nally sustained. It is a beautiful thing! It is within the
reach of every precious one of you.
202 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
One time about thirty years ago, as you compre­
hend time, it was My Privilege in India to come upon
a condition where a little child had been badly in­
jured. The spine and back had been broken and one
arm and one leg. That little child—a little boy—
lay
there in such agony, when from the Higher Octaves
My attention was called to it. I afterwards found, it
was because of previous association. I went immedi­
ately and lowered the rate of vibration of My Body.
I became visible, just touched the brow of the little
child and immediately all was Perfect. Such is the
Freedom which your Life can give you! That is the
Power without limit which all can wield! As de­
scribed in the Magic Presence, when Saint Germain
touched the child that was so distorted, almost be­
yond recognition, immediately Perfection took its
place. So you, or your “ Mighty I AM Presence”
through you, could to-day perform a similar service;
if you could but realize and still your human activity
and feeling enough.
Just as through this body, you see standing before
you here, was given such assistance as was recorded
in the books; so could your “ Mighty I AM Presence”
render a similar Assistance through you. That is
what he so earnestly tries to convey to you. Your
Presence is not limited in what It can do in, for and
through you; but It does require your continued har­
mony long enough, to let Its Power gain Dominion.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 203
Will you not feel that? Keep this before your outer
consciousness, so you may have the Blessing, Free­
dom and Glory of that Light ever manifesting Its
Perfection in and through you.
You are no longer limited, precious ones! Do not
let fear beset you any longer, through your seeming
lack of finances. Your “ Mighty I AM Presence” is
your Treasure-house, and if you will call earnestly,
It will open ways and means by which you are sup­
plied continually. There is no limit to what It wishes
you to have. It only asks you to be harmonious long
enough, so It can pour forth and release all you re­
quire.
Precious ones, think! there are but three things
in the world which really deprive mankind of a
flood of every good thing and they are: criticism,
condemnation and judgment. That is the origin of
almost all the distress of mankind. How easily it could
all be stopped and dissolved. The marvel of it is, that
you may call on the Law of Forgiveness and set the
Law into action to dissolve all mistakes. Do you not
see how the full Scepter of Power is in your hands
for your Freedom?
To-day, We offer Our Gift of Love to you and to
these blessed ones (Mr. and Mrs. Lucas). May your
“ Mighty I AM Presence” fill you and your world
with limitless happiness, joy, such release of all the
money and of every good thing you require. May It
204 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
give you limitless Assistance in this service which you
are rendering, and to all who are assisting. May the
Glory of Its limitless Supply be released to every
one. May a limitless supply of money be released to
carry on this Wonderful Work—the “ School of the
I AM .”
If you will make the call earnestly and sincerely,
then We will endeavor to help you bring the release
of all the money required, to carry on as the ex­
pansion is needed; to bring about beautiful and Per­
fect places which will be a blessing and a credit to
all; to bring limitless Blessings for every one who
wishes to help and bless in This Work. Remember,
you cannot be limited in your Service of the Light,
for money or anything else. As you make the call
for it, so will the Presence open the way and fulfill
it without limit. T ry to feel this with wonderful
definite power and then that answer will come to you.
We rejoice greatly in the courage and strength
many of you have had, to step forward and start this.
What a wonderful thing! “Where there is a will there
is a way.” Remember, your outer determination is
the activity of the Inner Will of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” We have referred to this quite often;
but We must anchor it within your feelings. When
you determine to do a constructive thing, it is the
impelling Power of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,
your Inner Self; not only urging you forward, but It
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 205
will bring the supply of all that is required, to keep
it in harmonious action and accomplishment; if you
can but realize it and feel it.
So, with all My Heart, I bless you—
every one—
who have been a part in starting this activity. Never
fear, your Presence will sustain and carry you for­
ward into greater and greater expansion, until all
the childen throughout the earth may know the
“ Mighty I AM Presence.” Let Me add this beloved
ones:
The first fundamental in all education in the
world is the Understanding of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” Then, all outer phases of education must
become easy for the children. As you call the “ Mighty
I AM Presence” into action to produce Perfection
in your educational world, so will the right activity
of that education come forth also. All that is of real
benefit, will be brought forth through your call. The
needs of the day will be fulfilled in Perfect Divine
Order. It is not the thing to do, to put your educa­
tion before your “ I AM Presence.” Put your “ I AM
Presence” first! Then, the remainder of the educa­
tion of mankind will follow in Perfect Divine Order.
It must be so. You should know that is the funda­
mental.
The right education does not mean some unusual
manner of teaching. It means to know your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” first, and It will bring about the Per-
2o6 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
feet Order of the educational system you want to
use as a natural sequence, and it will always be in
Divine Order. Wherever inharmony or confusion
starts, you will always know there is something in
that activity which does not belong in your education.
So, We want you to know, you are entering into the
Great Pathway of Life which is the balance between
religion and education—your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence.” I thank you.
D A V I D L L O Y D ’ S D I S C O U R S E
RATANA’s GLENDALE GROUP
MARCH 24, 1937
(David Lloyd is the man who made his Ascension on
Mount Shasta)
O
U T of the fullness of My Heart, Oh beloved
I Students of Los Angeles, I send to you on
the Words of My Love, the Truth that has
given Me My Freedom. Only such a short time ago, I
like yourselves, was making My great earnest search
for Light and Freedom.
When the Blessed Master in India said to Me:
“ On a great mountain in North America, you will
meet the one who will assist you to the Ascension,”
I was just a lad; but I believed every word He said.
There never was a question in My mind, either in
the outer or Inner activity, that ever doubted. Yet,
years after My mother passed on, then I began the
search.
It seemed incredible, when I went forth with such
fragmentary information, that I should attempt to
find the mountain, let alone the individual. Yet
always there was the Inner impelling Force which
drove Me on. When, time after time, I met disap­
pointment and I would think to Myself—I shall give
207
208 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
it up—within an hour there would come from within
Me, a great powerful Inner Surge which could not
be denied, and again I would go forth. Then, the
day came when in the joy I had in hiking about on
Mount Shasta, and at perhaps the least expected
time, I came upon this beloved brother seated on a
log. When the Great Revelation came and I sud­
denly saw in his hand the “ Crystal Cup” of which
the Master had spoken, it seemed all the Powers of
My Being—My Entire Being—were released.
I did not know up to that moment, it was possible
to experience such calm joy. Instead of an ecstatic
almost terrifying joy, deep from somewhere within
Me came a Great Deep Joy of knowing. This good
brother, in astonishment as great as Mine, stood look­
ing at the “ Cup” in his hand. It filled with a Won­
drous Liquid, that Wondrous Substance!
Having lived all those years without a single doubt
in My being of the ultimate Victory, even at the
times when discouragement came, still there always
continued a certainty of knowing My Final Victory.
I seized and drank that Liquid with great eagerness!
Then, for a moment I was almost terrified because
of the great Electrical Force which charged through
every atom of My Being. Then, the Great Light
spread over this form before you, making the arms
such blazing Light, you could scarcely look into
them. Those hands took mine and I felt again a tre-
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 209
mendous Charge flood My Being. Each moment the
sense of weight grew less. Then, as My feet left the
earth, I knew, Oh I knew, My Victory had come.
As I speak to you, will each one of you beloved ones
feel the Truth, feel My Feeling enter into your
Being? As I describe to you in My humble way that
which occurred, so you may have anchored within
you My Feeling of the Truth of the Victory, then one
day you, too, shall experience the same thing.
I felt all the density released from My human
form and felt the purified part of My human form
ascending. As My hands left his and I continued to
stand there in midair, can you imagine the feeling
which one would have while standing in midair, just
as firmly as you stand upon the floor—not feeling
anything but the Goal that was being accomplished?
When you have revolved within your feeling
world, with great intensity over a period of years,
the Glory of the Ascension which had been brought
to your attention; as some intimation of Its Activity
begins to work in you and your world; you will find
there is not a single feeling of anything but just re­
joicing in Its Accomplishment.
There will be no human fears, doubts or analyzing
of how you are standing in midair. All those silly
human things that confuse so many of mankind are
just gone. It is all so simple, dear ones. There is
nothing complicated about these Transcendent Ac-
210 ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES
tivities which mankind has now come to under­
stand—not a single thing confusing or complicated
about it. Each one of the Messengers has endeavored
to convey the simplicity, the majesty of this Under­
standing of the “ Mighty I AM Presence” which one
day is your Freedom and your Ascension.
Please feel to-night, as I am giving you My own
Experience, speaking to you the words of the Truth
that actually occurred in My own Life and experi­
ence, then you can feel the great Reality of It which
will be of untold assistance to you.
I said to this good brother, as I stood there in mid­
air, myself not the slightest concerned in conscious­
ness as to what was going to take place, but accepting
the Great Wisdom that I knew was acting: “ One day
I shall return and render you a service.” To-night, if
you will permit Me, I shall render you a Service.
Only, when you have accomplished the Victory of
the Ascension, will you see just how much is ac­
complished in this short hour.
The Transformation took place and I felt it very
clearly; but not having a mirror I did not see the
Transformation as this good brother did. I knew that
he was seeing It just as clearly as could be. Then, the
Great Ray of Light descended from the Presence
and I disappeared within It, leaving forever all limi­
tations behind. You just must feel now how I felt
then and have felt ever since. It is a joy too great
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 211
to try to voice, because it is alone comprehended in
the feeling.
I was an Englishman by birth, so grateful for this
opportunity and Englishmen are not any too recep­
tive. Yet how ready I was so to comprehend. Oh My
dear ones, in all the wide world there is nothing that
really matters but Freedom from human limitations
and your Ascension. Then in one day you can serve
almost as much as one Life-time in the physical form.
Now will you rejoice with Me, that to-night My
Service has begun in the outer world again. You
cannot imagine, I am sure you cannot, My Joy. You
love the beloved Messengers I know; but you can
hardly compare your Love with My Love to this
good brother, through whom My Victory was made
possible. It is difficult for the outer intellect to com­
prehend, precious ones, just what that means; but I
assure you through My feeling, I shall endeavor with
all earnestness to convey My Feeling into your feel­
ing world, and qualify it to act there with definite
power and purpose for you.
Do not ever let your human say to you, these things
are imagination, or they are not true. What a pity
anyone in the world could ever for a moment have
such a feeling. We speak to you from the Ascended
State and flash these Words, Our Words before this
good brother. No human concept can enter.
Do you think from the Ascended Master Octave
212 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
an untruth could be uttered? If you think that, then
you know very little of the Great Law. It is the same
when one is passing through the change called death—
an untruth cannot be spoken! From the Ascended
Masters’ Octave of Life no untruth dare be spoken!
There is no one who could ever have a desire to speak
an untruth.
So to-day, the greatest possible Blessing has come
to you, precious ones, who have been drawn under
the Radiation of the Beloved Saint Germain. To
Him is due all credit for this Knowledge coming
forth to mankind. All of the Ascended Masters ac­
knowledge It. How all love him, no words could
possibly tell you, for the Love of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence” transcends anything, that you have yet
understood in your world of human love. Why do I
say: “ human love”? Because, dear hearts, until you
have made the Ascension there is always some more or
less human qualification acting within your Love. It
could not be otherwise, for only as you come to the
final preparation is all human love replaced by the
transcendent Love of the Presence. In your under­
standing of the Presence to-day, you can still the outer
human emotion, which would requalify the Love
from the Presence; until the Great Divine Love of the
Presence can flow forth, scarcely touched by your
human qualification which many times qualifies the
Love of the Presence into what we call human love.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 213
There is no human, except the discordant crea­
tion which mankind has generated. Your forms that
you call human are but a clothing of density. It is all
that can be human. Your Divine Pattern, your Light
Pattern within you is not human. Just the quality is
human which you have imposed upon your Light
Pattern by discordant feeling. You have come to
know this very definitely. Today, you realize that
and know how harmony maintained in your feeling
will enable the power of pure energy, the Love from
your Presence, to flow through and out into your
world. Then you begin to become a Divine Being.
Notice, beloved ones, in the experience of Mr.
Rayborn and Myself, how all this, when it came to
the Final Activity, was done very quickly. Now, you
are understanding this Wondrous Knowledge of the
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” as you are constantly and
earnestly calling It into action. While your purifica­
tion and accomplishment is going on, you are render­
ing a tremendous service to every one you contact;
because, if your desire is very intense for your Free­
dom and Ascension, then you pour out that feeling
naturally.
Your Higher Mental Body, which knows all re­
quirements, will utilize every opportunity to in­
tensify your feeling; not only for yourself, but for all
who come into the Radiance of your world and activ­
ity. Therefore, you are always rendering a three-fold
214 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
service in your great intense desire for your Freedom
and Ascension.
When I saw from the unlimited state, what every
step gained in the acknowledgment of the Presence
meant, I thought no words could ever express My
Gratitude. Oh, that all mankind could suddenly
grasp this one simple point! What transformations
would take place! Once blessed mankind realizes that
the power of qualification alone has been the
stumbling-block in the road to Perfection, all indi­
viduals can discontinue qualifying any activity with
discord.
They can hold all human activity in obedience to
their great call. They can release from the Presence
this Wondrous Energy—Self-luminous Intelligent
Substance which will replace all imperfection, as it
is taken out of every cell of the human form, by this
Pure Substance—the Ascended Master Substance
which the human cannot requalify. Will you not
think deeply upon this?
Think of this one simple point alone: the privilege
mankind has to-day, that the Great Host of Ascended
Masters and Cosmic Beings have provided for you
to bless you; in the use of this Ascended Master Sub­
stance which cannot be requalified by the human. If
the blessed, precious students would understand this,
Oh how rapid would be the change and transforma­
tion within their bodies and activity; because then,
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 215
they would keep charging the Ascended Master Sub­
stance into their minds and bodies and out into their
worlds and activity.
Ere long the Creative Power of the Ascended
Master Substance and Consciousness, which contains
within It no discord, would begin to act in full Power
in their worlds. Then, all human struggle would
cease. Do you not see this, beloved ones, how quickly
all human struggle would cease?
Then, let this great calm Serenity and Substance
enter into your feeling world and through it let every­
thing in your emotional world become so still that
nothing can agitate it. You know, if you take a spoon
in a jar of liquid and begin to stir it rapidly how
agitated it becomes? Well that is the condition of
most emotional bodies during, shall We say, the
greater part of the day. The moment you touch some
discord, your emotional body begins to vibrate just
like that (quick motion of hand) to the extent that
sometimes you think you have heart trouble.
Think what it means to come to a point, precious
ones, where all disturbing vibration is perfectly still
and quiet. In all your former understanding, “ That
Peace that passeth understanding” is really this Great
Inner Stillness. In the acknowledgment of your Pres­
ence, you come to the point as this good brother has,
when such great, great Calmness becomes like the
deep still waters where there is no longer agitation
2 16 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
and disturbance. Then, one has to be very firm
against touching the discord of the outer world.
May I call this to your attention to-night, Oh be­
loved ones, so you realize what it means for a human
form to be in the powerful vibratory Action of the
Ascended Beings, in the various dictations which
have taken place in your midst here during the week?
Last Sunday, three Great Beings dictated and flashed
Their Words before him. He must be in Their
Radiation while that is being done. Then, can you
imagine what the touch of a little discord of the outer
world means? You would never hear him complain
or say a word; but I tell you this, that you might
know what it means, when discord touches his world,
when he is raised to that Height. I want you to know,
because We love him so greatly. I know you do also,
but I want you to know the Great Laws that are
acting.
His outer garment is like yours, beloved ones, but
not the Inner. I ask the Staff and those immediately
about him: Will you not do everything in your power
to hold the greatest harmony possible, as this greater
Expansion and greater Power is released to bless the
students everywhere? He is steadily, as is Mrs. Ballard,
steadily raising in attunement. Your great Love that
pours out to them, is the most wonderful thing, be­
loved ones. If individuals, who are unkind and pour
out criticism, condemnation and judgment to them,
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 217
could see what they do, they would not do it the
second time.
They, who pour forth only such great Love and
kindness, have sacrificed everything of the human
world, if you call it a sacrifice; to carry forth this
Message of Light, Love and Truth. Precious ones,
do not let the silly human reports go forth which
have been spread at times, that they are flourishing
with money. All they have is the Love Gifts of the
students to carry on the work. Not so long ago, the
report went forth that they had plenty of money. The
Love Gifts from that class did not take care of the
express on their trunks, but they never complain.
So I want you to know this, dear hearts. Fortify
yourselves against the foolish human gossip which
would try to bring discredit upon these loved ones,
whom the Great Ones love so greatly. They have had
the courage to go forth and carry this Light with
never a thought of themselves; but because they
knew the Knowledge was so great and the Freedom
so certain for mankind, they have been courageous
to carry It forward. They will continue, until the
great mass of mankind understands that they them­
selves have become the Guardians of this Light.
To-day, precious ones, blessed students of Los
Angeles, and Southern California, you have become
the Guardians of the Light. Remember that! Feel,
this is your part of the problem. If you are not strong
218 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
enough, but listen to human foolish silly gossip which
turns you aside from this Great Truth—the Mightiest
ever brought forth on earth—then you must pay the
penalty by failure. One said, who came to this good
brother to-day, that certain individuals had said:
“ Well, they thought they were not interested any
more in this Truth.” Beloved ones, how can human
beings be so foolish! They can no more turn away
from their “ Mighty I AM Presence,” than they can
sprout wings and fly this very moment. They may
temporarily turn aside; but only too glad will they
be to turn back to this Mighty Source of Life, their
“ Mighty I AM Presence.”
Oh precious ones, do you not see it is not a matter
of the Messengers saying, that this Knowledge of
the “ Mighty I AM Presence” is true; but every one
has a Presence of his own which should tell him, that
somewhere there is a Source of Life—individualized—
which gives him Life and activity? It is not contained
in the human form at death, every one of you knows
that. Every organ or faculty is in your body, but it
is of no use. Then, the Stream of Life, which has been
pouring into the body, must have withdrawn some­
where. Remember! you are here! Then you must
know, that the Presence is there, or you would not
be here.
To-night, Oh beloved ones, My Joy is so great for
the privilege of speaking My Wishes, My Experiences
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 219
to you; for only so short a time ago, I stood where
you are to-day. This is not a far off thing, dear hearts.
It is such a recent experience, that it should touch
your hearts and feeling world. Qualify it with your
conscious certain knowledge, that if I could accom­
plish it, then you can too. Do you not see, how all
this is an example to the outer world? It is an Infinite,
definite All-powerful Truth and Reality! It is an
Example to you, that you should attain your Freedom
and Ascension without question.
Blessed, beloved ones, no words can describe Our
Love for you and the great Desire which pours forth
without limit, into your feeling world, to assist you
unto a like accomplishment. I know now, so far as
financial supply was concerned, I was provided for,
while all this great search went on. Through the kind­
ness of my father, who grub-staked a man in the dia­
mond fields in South Africa, the Great Law pro­
vided for Me.
Precious ones of to-day, Oh do not, please do not,
ever allow your human self to make you feel once
again, that you can be deprived of the money you
desire for your happiness, comfort or anything else
you need. Only as you allow doubt to govern is there
lack in your world, for the Presence is the Treasure-
house of your world. It is and I know it now! From
the Ascended State, I can see how the Presence was
acting then, but I did not know it. It enabled Me
220 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
to have the time for free search. To-day, I see why
that long search was necessary for Me; because it
was building up the strength, power and momentum
which I needed, when I met this good brother.
Your activity in the acknowledgment of your Pres­
ence is calling It forth for the accomplishment, as
you think, of your problems to-day. Oh dear hearts,
it is beautiful and wonderful; but the accomplish­
ment of solving the problems, do you not see, is only
a fragmentary part of it? It is the momentum that
you are gaining which is the Victory of the accom­
plishment of your so-called problems. One day it will
stand there in full power and strength for your Final
Victory.
Oh beloved ones, do you not see how all is within
the great power of the final accumulation of the
Energy which enables you to sweep forward into the
Freedom of your Victory and Ascension? It is the
• Victory, the end of all human pilgrimage, for you
never again re-embody as you are to-day, after your
Ascension. You have your Eternal Light Body then.
You may go where you will in the Universe, and do
you not think I have had a good time since?
Beloved ones, I have not been idle a moment. All
of the wonderful places I have seen in those Great
Octaves of Light—the heaven of earth! Dear ones,
I have seen such things as are inconceivable to the
human mind to-day. Yet, every one of those magnif-
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 221
icent things, is as tangible and Real in those Octaves
of Light as your physical places are to-day.
I bear witness before the world and the Universe!
Even in so short a time I have seen so much, for I
have never stopped in the great Acceptance and
Glorifying of My world, with the actual Knowledge
of going from place to place and seeing first hand,
all of these great, these marvelous things which the
whole world is one day to know. Then, you can
understand how great is My Joy, for being given this
privilege to-night, to speak My Heart to you and to
try to have you feel Its Earnestness, Its Joy, Its Hap­
piness, and Gratitude to the Great Presence, to Saint
Germain and to this good brother.
In this great stillness, just let yourselves be flooded
by the Glory of My Feeling and Conviction. Accept
It, if you will! qualify It to expand with great earnest­
ness and speed to assist you! to glorify you with all
the Courage and Strength which I have and feel, in
the gaining of My Victory that It may give you all
the Assistance you require, for the same great joyous
Achievement. Feel the fulness of It sweep into and
abide in your Being, acting there with full Power and
holding you; first, in Its great Calmness and then
in Its joyous Assurance of your Victory; for only
in the calmness of your feeling world, can you gain
quickly the Victory of your Presence. Feel It.
Oh Great Host of Ascended Masters! charge My
222 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
Feeling into the feeling world of these beloved ones,
all the Students in Los Angeles and Southern Cali­
fornia. Charge My Feeling into their feeling world—
My feeling of the Glory and Victory, Oh so recently
achieved. Glorify every blessed one who has turned
aside from this Light, through some falsehood which
has been spread to them. Bring them back, Oh
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” into this Great Pathway
of Light again!
Hold them so firm in Your Consciousness, so firm
against the falsehoods, that the sinister thing tries
to feed into their worlds. Oh sweep it out, Glorious
Presence and Great Host of Ascended Masters! Hold
these beloved ones and those who have momentarily
been drawn aside—hold them in Thy Mighty Tube
of Light, until no longer can falsehood turn them
from the Pathway of Light. Oh “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” reach out Your Arms and Your Hands, bring
into this coming class (Pan Pacific) these beloved
ones who have turned temporarily aside! Glorify
them with the Truth which they know in their hearts;
but which through the foolish human intellect, ac­
cepting falsehood, has made them turn aside. Bring
them into Thy Great Flood of Light, Oh “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” and give them the strength and
courage to stand against the falsehoods which have
been uttered! Make them stand forth in their own
Freedom and Light.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 223
We make this call to-night. There shall not any­
thing turn the students aside from this Great Path­
way of Light, ever again! So shall I, with the Great
Rays of Light, watch over and pour forth such a
Power that It will silence forever every discordant
thing—
every individual—who tries to pour out false­
hood concerning these Messengers and the Light.
They shall cease, until one day they see their great
mistake and turn again to the Light.
Stop the treachery of any one, who would come
into the class of these loved ones and then go out
and spread falsehood concerning it! That thing shall
cease, for I shall watch and stand guard! No longer
shall such a thing go on. I love this good brother, as
few can understand in the outer world. I told him
I would render the greatest possible Service to him.
So shall I, by standing guard to protect him, his loved
ones and the Light which Saint Germain has brought
forth. I do it of My own conscious Volition, of My
own Great Love and Power, and I am not limited
in the Power I shall use! Spread this everywhere,
beloved ones! Tell the people that David Lloyd, who
made His Ascension on Mount Shasta, is standing
guard over these loved ones and this Light! Let those
deal with Me, who want to harm them.
I have asked this good brother not to repeat My
Name, but to-night I give it to you Myself. So be­
loved ones, stand in the Glory of the Wondrous Light
224 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
of your “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Be the fulfilling
of the Perfection which It is! You have the strength!
You have the Power! Yours is the Joy! Your “ Mighty
I AM Presence” will release all the Strength, Cour­
age and Power you require for any given purpose, if
you will but call It forth into action.
Never allow your human to cause you to feel,
that you cannot draw forth enough Power from your
Presence to do what you require in your world. It
is not true. Your call does release all the Power you
need for any given achievement and for the Glory
of your Ascension. Do not let your human qualifica­
tion act, to prevent your entering quickly into full
Freedom. “The Light of God never fails,” and that
Light is your Life.
To-day, I call forth the fulness of this Great Power.
I call forth the Fulness of your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” to take command of your minds, bodies, your
homes and your worlds! to produce Its Perfection
and hold Its Dominion there! to make you dauntless
before the face of man and enable you to refuse ac­
ceptance of any discord or falsehood which may be
uttered in the world about you.
Stand forth in that Mighty Light and move forth
Victorious in the Light, glorifying your home and
families with the Glory of the Presence which never
fails. It could not and never will fail. May Its Light
blaze forth from your heart filling the world, your
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 225
world, until there is no longer anything but the
Light, “ the Light of God that never fails” ! the Light
that is the “ Mighty I AM Presence” ! the Light that
beats your heart, and is in every cell of your body!
EXPAND, OH LIG H T ! OH LIG H T ! OH LIG H T!
Expand within these loved ones, and assert the Glori­
fication of Thyself forever sustained. We thank Thee.
T H E O L D M A N O F T H E
H I L L S ’ D I S C O U R S E
sindelar’s group
MARCH 25, 1937
M
Y CH ILD REN , from out the seeming
Mysteries of Infinity has come Freedom to
mankind, in the Glory of this simplified
Instruction which your Beloved Master Saint Ger­
main has brought forth. In all My world of expe­
rience, none so great has ever come forth. Think,
my precious children, to-day in a world so greatly in
need, all symbology and expressions which have been
so confusing to mankind have been withheld and
will no longer be allowed to act in the world.
That which was once understood through great
symbols and it was once necessary to use them, in for­
mer cycles, has passed! Mankind to-day must have the
“ Law of Life” in the simplicity of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” Oh beloved ones, while I speak to you
to-night, will you feel as never before the Mighty
Import of those words—“ I AM .” The Great, the
Greatest Creative Word in the Universe is given into
your use without limit. It only remains for you to
apply It with firm determination, to enable you to
stand in the Octave of Light where We do.
226
.•'I '
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 227
Think how long We have endeavored to minister
to mankind, and yet have seen so little evidence of
accomplishment. Even that which has been accom­
plished was but temporary. Now to-day, in this Great
Knowledge, this Great Wisdom in its great simplicity
which the Beloved Saint Germain has brought forth,
mankind shall again be free. Not for more than two
hundred thousand years has mankind had such an
opportunity! I plead with you, Oh my children, feel
how important it is that you apply, apply and never
weary of applying, this Teaching of Saint Germain,
which is absolutely certain and without question will
bring you Freedom from every limitation, and then
your Ascension.
The struggle of mankind through the past few
hundred years has grown more and more fierce, as
the vibratory action and speed of all activity has
intensified. You yourselves must see and know how
great has been that speed. In your language—that
stepped-up-activity has meant so much in transporta­
tion. Then will you realize, that within your human
forms there has been taking place the same identical
activity, in the increased speed of the vibratory action
within yourselves? It is the same as has taken place,
only in a cruder manner in your world of transporta­
tion.
From the man with the rod and pack upon his
back have come your marvelous airplanes to-day. Still
228 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
more wonderful ones will come forth ere long. Think
in how short a period such transcendent progress has
been accomplished.
You stand to-day, beloved Children of the Light,
in the open door of so much greater transcendent
activity. Even that, which is within your own scope
of comprehension, seems small indeed compared to it.
You must realize now, that in all of the magnificent
Assistance which is being given you, no one should
ever for a moment feel discouraged. After having
battled the forces that sometimes rock a planet, then
to-day, when you have before you your Freedom,
how can any one ever again feel weary or discour­
aged?
Do you not understand, Oh beloved ones, that
through the centuries you have continued to battle
these forces of human creation continually? Now
you have before you the remedy, the certain definite,
sure remedy. How can you hesitate? How can you
ever feel—ever again—doubt or fear? With the knowl­
edge of the Greatest Presence in the Universe which
gives you Life and beats your heart, how can you
ever again fear?
I, to-night, give forth to the beloved Students of
California, America and the world, in My Humble
Way, My Assistance to enable you to be free, more
determined in your application and yet always with
a great calm serenity which knows the Mastery of
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 229
conditions which have heretofore terrified you. Such
is your right, such is your privilege, such is your
authority, your ability. Will you allow Me—to-night—
to give you such Strength that no one in California,
who is earnest in his application of the Light, will
ever feel again one moment’s doubt or fear? It seems
strange how sometimes lovely Students of the Light
will accept human suggestions that make them doubt
this Great Truth which Saint Germain has brought
forth. They even doubt the great honest sincerity of
this good Brother, who has brought forth the Great
Reality of the Law to mankind, in being the observer
of the Great Law of Life.
Last night, those who were present had such a
transcendent privilege, of hearing one who has so
recently achieved the Ascension, describe to you Her
Experience. Beloved ones, no longer waiver, but with
firmness and unyielding determination go forward
in the Radiance of your own “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence.” There is naught that can stop you! nothing
can interfere with you or prevent you having your
quick and sure Freedom! Oh I plead with you, do
not longer listen to human gossip and suggestions
which make you waiver and feel disturbed. The pity!
Oh the pity! that mankind will longer gossip or ac­
cept vicious suggestions of another.
We are striving so earnestly to help you to set your­
selves Free, but without your co-operation and
230 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
obedience it cannot be done. Your free will must be
utilized and joyously; in order for you, Oh precious
ones, to reach the Glory of Eternal Light and Free­
dom. We, who have watched through the centuries,
century after century, pouring forth, sometimes feel
great Joy at the accomplishment. Then again, We
see mankind relapse into the chains of their own
creation.
This time the Light’s Victory is permanent and
do you realize, all of this is due to your Beloved Saint
Germain? No one else chose to go forth and take
the consequences of success or failure! He did! He
won the battle! Praises ever be to Him! Why was it
so? Because under the Great Cosmic Law, being of
the Seventh Ray, He was the One to try it out. When
He said to the beloved Messengers: “ I have started
this Great Law in action, My success now depends
upon you, whether you are strong enough to stand
with Me,” and they have been.
As the beloved Messenger reminded you to-night,
you have now become the Guardians of this Light.
We shall be happy to give you the Assistance to be
the full Guardians of the Light which has done such
wonderful work in California.
Now I must, because it is the Law, commend Mrs.
Fisher in New York and Mrs. Ekey in Philadelphia,
for the transcendent work that they have recently
accomplished, because it has made it possible for the
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 231
Messengers to go there again. How wonderful it is
to know how the Great Law raises up those, who are
strong enough to go forth dauntless before human
creation, which deprives so many of their Freedom
in the Light.
To-day, you beloved ones in California, have
banded together in these very wonderful Groups of
people. The Light, when you are gathered as you
are in this room to-night, from the Higher Octaves
becomes a dazzling blazing Sun of Light. Would you
believe that, and would you like to see it? One day
you shall!
The human is so strange is it not? It so hesitates
to accept what it cannot feel and handle. Yet the
greatest thing in the world in all activity is that which
is invisible! You all know this! The Life that gives
you activity, you do not see It do you? The radio
which carried the lovely message to-night from the
lovely Messenger, you did not see its activity, but
you heard it! Then do you not see how in all of the
greatest activities, all Life’s action is invisible? Yet
you have the use, blessing and benefit of it.
Look at your great motors, look at your great en­
gines. You do not see the operations going on in them,
I mean the one who is not familiar with them—not
the engineer—yet those who ride upon the train or
within the airplanes, you are not as a rule familiar
with that activity which is going on in the engine, as
232 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
it carries you through the air or over the rails to your
destination. Yet you accept it and use its blessing.
Let us be very practical to-night, that once and
forever there may be erased from your consciousness,
whatever causes doubts and fears within you. Why
do human beings continue to let the accumulated
suggestion of mankind dominate them, for that alone
causes fear and doubt? Do you think the Life which
beats your heart accepts doubt or fear? It cannot, then
what is it? Just the accumulation of human con­
sciousness.
Now to-day you understand how to enfold your­
selves in Light’s Invincible Protection and how to
use the Violet Consuming Flame, to free yourselves
from all discordant accumulation. If you will not
do it, then you must remain in your limitations; but
I plead with you! you, who have been so earnest,
use this! Do not cease, when you are so near your
Wondrous Victory.
Remember, your world is a world of your own.
You are calling forth the Action of your Presence.
Thus you can and are surely clearing your world
of all accumulation of the centuries. I plead with you,
continue until the fulness of your achievement is
attained. Then, you will feel the great Out-pouring
from your Presence acting more and more quickly,
until no longer does any doubt or fear touch your
consciousness.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 233
This good brother is a living proof before you, and
those who knew him years ago know the Victory that
is his. You can all do it. We have watched him plead­
ing, pleading, pleading with the people, to stand
guard over their worlds, to shut out all inharmony,
that the full pure perfect Energy and Substance of
the Presence can flow forth, to fill their worlds with
the Perfection which the Presence is. He will con­
tinue, until you realize the Glory of the Scepter of
the “ Mighty I AM Presence” is in your hands, to
command your world to be free.
Beloved ones, tarry no longer, arise in the Glory
and the Light of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” ap­
ply this Law with determination and never can
Victory be withheld from you. Do you not see, be­
loved ones, it is only as you waiver that disturbance
intrudes? Out of the Glory which is yours, Oh be­
loved ones, comes all that is good! Never doubt for
a second, that every assistance through the power of
Radiation is being poured forth to you constantly,
and no sincere effort is ever lost. Every step you are
gaining is sustained. You cannot slip back!
To-night, in the great calm atmosphere by which
you are surrounded, in the great stillness and quiet
which all need so much, you, who have had dif­
ficulty in stilling your outer self, will find much less
difficulty in the future from to-night with this con­
tact. May I remind you just why these many dictations
234 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
have come forth in such rapid succession? To charge
you and your world! for while you are listening to
the various ones, a great Consuming Activity is go­
ing on. How and why? Because you have made the
call for the Violet Consuming Flame to dissolve and
consume all discord and undesirable things from
your world. So now in this call can the assistance be
given.
It is a joyous thing to see what is taking place as
the various ones have dictated to you, each One sup­
plying a certain quality that you need. Think of it!
that you may feel, I know most of you do, that all may
feel the deepest gratitude possible. Dear ones, think
what it means for all these Great Beings to take the
time from Their Great Cosmic Activities to come
forth and give you the Assistance, which They do
in these activities. Think of it! Think what it means
to you! As you feel the greater and greater gratitude,
praise and thanks, you will feel how much easier it
is, for you to make your application; to feel the cour­
age and confidence you require; to give more dynamic
feeling and therefore produce more rapid results.
You cannot fail ever in your application. We, from
the Ascended State, are also decreeing this for you.
Look! as you are decreeing for yourselves and for
mankind, then do you not see, precious ones, that
you have opened your door; for Us to not only pour
forth through the Light Rays the Radiance to you;
ML
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 235
but you have made the way definite, for Us to give
you the Assistance which your hearts so greatly crave?
Now, because We do not immediately pick you up
and set you into Eternal Freedom and Opulence, do
not think that the work is not going on just the same.
If We did that, you would cease making conscious
effort, would you not? Until the human is fully dis­
solved it will assert itself, if the human form is given
nothing to do. That is why the Messengers and We
are calling forth action into your Life and world; be­
cause you must be active in something, dear hearts.
Your mind must be occupied in some constructive
activity, if you want to have the greatest results.
Sometimes individuals make the great mistake of
endeavoring to call forth the Presence all the hours
of the day. That is not wise. You do not have to
keep calling the Presence all day long, except where
you are giving your twenty-four hour service. That
of course is a very marvelous thing, but I mean in in­
dividuals own lives. Do you not see, precious ones,
how if you will utilize morning, noon and night to
give forth your dynamic decrees and application for
that which you require; then give your attention to
the other activities of the day, you will find wonder­
ful, wonderful results? Sometimes individuals in
their great earnestness keep in meditation too long;
or they keep revolving things in their thought and
feeling until unknowingly, they make the things they
236 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
do not want more real than the things they do.
Be so practical, beloved ones in all that you do.
When you apply, apply dynamically, firmly, then go
on with your other outer activities, until you feel
impelled again. Then give it again. With firm de­
termination call your Presence to take command of
you and give you to-day the perfect thing every hour
of the day. You will soon come into the marvelous
application which will not weary you; but will keep
you in great joyous contentment continually. That
is what We so much desire you to do.
Now watch will you, every one of you? If you begin
to feel weary in your acknowledgment of the Pres­
ence, it is because the human is trying to be the
doer. If you become discouraged it is the human,
then simply say: “ Mighty I AM Presence,” now You
are the Doer, through my attention to Thee. All
things are in your hands. You take command and see
that the perfect thing is done, and that I do the perfect
thing also.” Then you will have no difficulty, I as­
sure you.
Remember! We, Who have come forth to speak
Our Wishes to you have made Ourselves a part of
you. Think of it! We have willingly made Ourselves
a part of you. Now you will not disappoint Us will
you? You would not think of disappointing Us, in
this Perfection which We decree for you. Therefore,
will you buckle on your armour, the Strength of your
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 237
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” Its Courage, its Dominion,
and let It act to your great joy and Freedom forever?
In the fulness of the Great Light which is the
Light within every cell of your body, I command It
to take on definite action for your Freedom! to ex­
pand in Divine Order until all the density, with
which you have clothed yourself, clothed the Light—
the Light pattern of your human form—is dissolved
and you stand forth free in the Radiance of your
Presence.
Will you not accept this to-night, as I call It forth
for you to become eternally sustained and active, for
your blessing, happiness and Freedom? Feel the full
Glory of It acting within you this instant and glorify
it with Me, to be eternally sustained and active there,
to produce Its perfect results without limit; that all
human accumulations about you be now dissolved;
that you go forth a free Being of Light, which you
are; and in the Mighty Directing Intelligence of
your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” receive, be and act
Its Mighty Glory.
When you wish to determine your activity say:
“ Would the Ascended Masters do this”? and you
will have no difficulty in determining your field and
mode of action. Be free from all human limitations
this night! Accept the full Freedom which is yours
and do not I plead with you, allow any activity to
take place in your feeling world that will in any wise
238 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
annul this which is offered! Accept, feel and be the
free Glory of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” which
is released to you this night.
I charge this activity of the “Voice of the I AM ”
with the Mighty Perfection of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” the Ascended Host of Masters, the Legion
of Light and the Cosmic Beings! that this remain in
a mighty harmonious activity; that no human crea­
tion has any power to qualify it with anything but
harmony and Perfection; that the feeling of its ac­
tivity and blessing to mankind may ever expand,
until all mankind know the “ Voice of the I AM .”
Your Beloved Master Jesus, decreed that this
Magazine go forth. Your beloved brother, Mr. Sinde-
lar accepted the responsibility and the charge. Then
you, as Students of the Light, it is for you to pour
forth such a blessing, that only harmony reigns within
the midst of his activity in the tremendous work
which is required. Will you not join with Me in
this always, and see that no quality of criticism ever
go forth against him or against Mrs. Ballard, who
works so ceaselessly and earnestly, so this material may
go forth in a beautiful marvelous manner for your
blessing and that of mankind?
Remember, beloved ones, these blessed ones work
night and day so these things may go forth on time.
Yet there are those so unfortunate as to criticize them,
if a few days have passed beyond the time expected.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 239
Remember, beloved children, My children, you are
Guardians of this Light! You are Guardians of the
“Voice of the I AM ,” as It goes forth to bless all
mankind. Then, if you allow discord or criticism to
pass your lips, you have joined the sinister activity
to longer withhold the Glory, which the Great Radi­
ance poured forth through the “Voice of the I AM ”
brings.
Beloved ones, My Gratitude is boundless for those
who have been willing to send forth the books with­
out limit everywhere. Remember, loved ones, every
magazine has a definite powerful activity in it to
bless mankind. It is sent forth with that purpose,
with that intent. Each one has a glorious activity
within itself. So beloved ones, spread this every­
where, and when one would feel impatient, silence
it! by reminding them of the nights and days these
blessed ones serving work, that these things may be
accomplished.
Now that your Decree Book will soon be out, Oh
beloved ones, APPLY! APPLY! APPLY them! until
nothing in the world stands before you or between
you and your Presence. Only as you apply, beloved
ones, can you have your Freedom. No one else can
do it for you. Every one can help, but you alone are
the decreer of what shall be in your world. Feel it
definitely. Give your command, stand by it! until the
fulness of that decree finds manifestation in you and
240 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
your world. Stand glorified forever, in the fulness
of the Mighty Power which is your “ Mighty I AM
Presence.” There is no other Power in the Universe
to act but that—your “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
So remind the outer often, that no longer can it
have even a suggestion, which would disturb you in
your onward application and Freedom. It is rushing
unto you and your world through your acknowledg­
ment of the Presence. As you continue to hold har­
mony in your feelings, nothing can stop the Glory
of your Presence rushing forward like a Mighty
Avalanche into your world to produce Its Perfec­
tion, hold Its Dominion, and supply you with every
good thing in the world.
I ask you to-night, Oh beloved ones, even more
intensely than you have been calling, call the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” to reach out Its Hands
everywhere and bring subscribers to the “Voice of
the I AM ,” that all mankind may be blessed! Do you
not realize, Oh My precious ones, that in your call
for the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” to reach Its Hands
out everywhere and bring in subscribers to this maga­
zine, the Mightiest Power in the Universe is set into
action to produce it?
Again with your supply of money or whatever is
required, precious ones, call your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” to release limitless abundance from Its
Treasurehouse; to reach out and bring into your use
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 241
the supply you require, through the Power of Divine
Love. You cannot be deprived of that which you re­
quire for your use and happiness. It is a great Law
of your Life, Oh beloved ones. It is not any one’s
opinion, but a Great Law of your Life that must be;
must act at your call; must answer your decree;
must fulfill your requirements, when called into
action with earnest determination. It shall be done!
In the fulness of the Blessings of Infinite Light, I
enfold you, all students in California, America and
the world! I send forth to New York and Philadelphia
the Glory of the Radiance which I wield, to bless,
to expand those Mighty Activities there, until all may
be saved from that which is threatening.
Great Infinite Cosmic Light! come forth before
these blessed Students of the “ I AM ” ! clear the way!
set them firmly upon their Pathway of Light! hold
them there dauntless, until their full power of
achievement is attained. We thank Thee it is done
and sustained forever, unto the Perfection and As­
cension of every one. We thank Thee.
O U R P R E C I O U S B O B ’ S
D I S C O U R S E
YOUNG PEOPLE’S 100% GLENDALE GROUP
MARCH 26, 1937
M
Y BELOVED Brothers and Sisters in the
Light, to-night is My Night of Joy, in
being able to convey to you something
of that which I have experienced, since this beloved
Messenger came to the Rayborn home. In My con­
tact with him, and then with Saint Germain, how
little the first day, when he came into Mr. Rayborn’s
mine, did I realize what was to follow. You beloved
ones, to-day, cannot possibly imagine in your outer
human sense the beauty, the Perfection and the suc­
cessful achievement which is before you, in your
acknowledgment and application of the Law of your
“ Mighty I AM Presence.”
I shall never forget the first touch of this Knowl­
edge, of which I became outwardly aware. It was
when this good brother came to the mine with Mr.
Rayborn and selected the spot where the tunnel was
to be driven in—where I thought it was not possible
for any value to be. Yet, afterwards it proved the Wis­
dom of Saint Germain, even to the exact number of
feet the tunnel was to be driven to reach the ore body.
242
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 243
The tunnel did reach it and every particle of it was
exactly as He said it would be.
Can you imagine what it meant to Me, when I
saw it all fulfilled? I am frank to say, I thought Mr.
Rayborn was crazy when he started that tunnel; be­
cause from a geological standpoint, it was thought
to be impossible for such a thing to occur. Yet it was
and is there to-day.
Now to return to Our work: At the time We left
for Arabia and India, We met the Beloved Leto our
first night out on the Atlantic, at dinner. She im­
mediately took us into training and taught us how
to leave the body consciously and at will; and what
rejoicing We experienced! I presume I was the most
enthusiastic of all, for when I found I could get out
of that body and be free, I did not lose any more
time. It is such a joyful thing, beloved ones, to know
that you—the Real You—are not bound to your
physical body, when you understand the Law and
how to operate It.
Our Beloved Lady Master, Leto, with such great
Grace and Kindliness taught Us the very first evening
how to do it. We were able to go and come from
the body from that time on, without further assist­
ance. Your Higher Mental Body, dear ones, is the
Thinker, the Doer of all that is good. While your
physical bodies might have all the faculties still in
them, yet without that Stream of Energy, governed
244 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
by your Higher Mental Body, your Presence, you
would not be able to move your hand or anything
else.
This is one thing I wish to convey to you to-night:
Everything depends upon the acknowledgment of
your Presence, for then your Higher Mental Body
has the full Power and Authority, to release whatever
Mighty Intelligent Energy you require into your
outer world and activity. Without such acknowledg­
ment, only enough energy goes forth to just sustain
life. Do you not see, beloved ones, how ordinary
people without this Understanding of the Presence
are using less than ten percent of the great energy,
which is ready for their use? Is it not too ridiculous,
too stupid for words, to think that we have not
reached out with enough intensity even to God, All
Light, to release these Great Inner Powers, which all
of us have?
With Myself, when the awakening started it was
so tremendous and I without knowing it was so ready,
that after the first experience, of which I just spoke,
concerning the activity of Mr. Rayborn, it seemed
to Me there never was another doubt in My whole
feeling world. I accepted everything else from then
on readily and joyfully. Of course that accounts for
My rapid progress and the expansion of My own
Light which took place.
Then, we arrived in Arabia, in that wonderful
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 245
place. Just try for a moment to feel this as I give you
a little general description of how I actually felt, for
I still retain that marvelous feeling. When we were
driving along over the desert, nothing in sight any­
where but the low hills some distance away, suddenly
the floor of the desert opened like the jaws of a great
creature; and our automobile drove right in; the
great jaw closed and the desert floor was as usual.
Dear hearts, can you imagine the feeling, of one
knowing so little about this Great Law, as I did, when
I suddenly began experiencing the marvels which
came through It? Then, We went into that great
buried city and the great rooms underneath. There
everything was spotless and the Great Ones were
moving about doing their work.
In Retreats of that kind, those who are serving
rarely speak a word unless spoken to; because they
have learned the Law of Silence and the waste of
energy which goes on, through the general chatter
of mankind; for it is of no particular consequence.
When We observed them working, I realized as never
before, what a Great Being Saint Germain was.
I had seen Him do many wonderful things. The
dinner He precipitated at the mine in Mr. Rayborn’s
little bungalow was a marvelous thing; but the things
that followed afterwards were so much more wonder­
ful. To-day, what seemed so wonderful at first is
quite commonplace now. They do such marvelous
246 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
things in teaching the students the use of the Light
Rays. They can project Them for They are tangible
substance, dear hearts! Remember always in your
use of the Light, that Divine Love and Light, which
are synonymous, are Self-luminous Intelligent Sub­
stance. Therefore, when you pour out a great volume
of Divine Love to someone you love—a person, place,
condition or thing, the Self-luminous Intelligent
Substance enfolds that one in the Perfection which
It is. It produces for you and for them a wondrous
activity.
You have all heard the Promptings of the Ascended
Masters, to use Their Ascended Master Conscious­
ness. You must no doubt realize that this means the
identical Self-luminous Intelligent Substance of
which We are speaking. The Consciousness of the
Ascended Masters is the Substance which is charged
with the Consciousness of Their Victory, through
Self-conscious attainment—Their Ascension.
Now mark you, when you call the Ascended
Masters’ Consciousness and Substance into action in
your mind, body and your world, that carries with
It the Consciousness of Their Achievement. There­
fore, do you not see, beloved ones, that in calling
forth the Ascended Masters’ Consciousness to your
assistance, you are charging yourself and world with
that consciousness which has already attained? Then
you see, it is so much easier and you will more readily
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 247
turn and use these simple Laws of your “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” for the expansion of your own Light.
In the use of the Light Rays, it so happened that
We all chose to render the same service, which the
Divine Director Himself said was unusual. There­
fore, in Our Service since, it has been almost in­
describable, the things which We have been able to
accomplish individually, in state and government.
This has all been done through the projection of
Light Rays, which mark you again—
do not ever for­
get this—
are Self-luminous Intelligent Substance.
If I were to tell you some of the things that had
been done in the recent strikes, and show you how
the Substance of these Light Rays dissolves discord
and enables individuals to reach an adjustment, you
would be not only greatly delighted, but rejoice at
this service which is being rendered. It is steadily
and surely dissolving and dispelling all of the vicious
discordant qualities generated by mankind. Those
qualities are being used to-day by that, which you
know as the sinister force, to still try to drive its de­
struction into mankind.
Therefore, precious ones, you do have sufficient
understanding to call forth, as you see in the Chart,
those Rays of Light pouring out from the Presence.
You can now begin to call forth those Light Rays
from the Presence, for They are Self-luminous In­
telligent Substance. When you call the Presence into
248 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
action to project Them to a given point, you are
rendering the identical service that We render, only
in a lesser degree. The Presence will always perform
whatever service you require.
Do not let your human self cause you to doubt or
question, when you have called these Light Rays
forth, for It will do all you require and quickly. As
you practice this, you will find that you have at your
finger tips, the use of a Great Law. It will delight
you and give you the greatest possible happiness and
Freedom—far greater than anything the outer world
has to offer to-day!
The happiness of the human senses is but frag­
mentary, beloved ones. So few years ago, I Myself
knew nothing in the outer consciousness about these
Great Laws. Yet to-day, I am able to apply Them
with such astonishing results, that I never cease to
marvel at it Myself. Because of the previous prepa­
ration and expansion of My own Light, it was pos­
sible for Me to enter quickly into this Activity with
Rex, My Sister and Nada.
The joke on Me was that Pearl, My Sister, was
being trained years before I ever dreamed of it. Even
from a little girl Saint Germain was training her.
Yet she kept it perfectly silent from every living soul
on earth. When She came to Me at the mine, then
We discovered She had known Saint Germain for
many years already.
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 249
So dear ones, in mentioning these personal ex­
periences to you, I want you to realize how little the
outer self knows what is actually going on about it.
Once your attention is called to this “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” which beats your heart, anything in the
world, beloved ones, might take place for you. No
one in the outer knows your preparation or how
great the Light has expanded within you.
To-night, it has been My Privilege to observe your
Light and that is why We can, from this night, be of
much greater service to you. We see the expansion
of the Light within each one of you, and know what
is necessary to be done to give you the greatest As­
sistance. Will you not feel how much We love you,
and how much We want to render you any Service
which is possible and the Law of your Being permits;
that you too may quickly enter into the Freedom
which We now experience?
Oh dear ones, I wish the Law of your Being per­
mitted Me to say certain things to you to-night, which
I observe here. Your joy would be boundless; but
you must make your application, for only by that do
you gain the permanent Victory. This is the same
reason why Saint Germain would not do certain
things for these beloved Messengers; because in the
necessity of the outer world, you are compelled to
make the application which you would not do other­
wise; if you had all within your use that you desired.
250 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
Therefore, in your application the energy is released
which builds a momentum that makes for your final
Victory and the Ascension.
Just as the Good Brother (David Lloyd) who spoke
the other night explained to you, that through His
long search He gained the momentum that enabled
Him to attain the Final Victory. To-day, in your ap­
plication and through your attention held on your
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” you are building a mo­
mentum which makes for your marvelous wonderful
Victory. You will achieve It! You would be amazed,
some of you precious ones, if you knew the service
you could render. You know one gets sorely tempted
sometimes to tell you, but only as the Law of your
Being permits is it done. To-night will you accept
from Me the Encouragement, Strength and Assurance
which I know must be for your definite certain
Victory?
As you go forward in your application of the Great
Law, there are a few things which are essential. Re­
fuse absolutely, as I see so many of you are doing, to
listen to any gossip or discordant voicing of anything
that comes to your ears! Refuse acceptance of it into
your world! Refuse to send out discordant feeling to
any thing, any condition or any one! Then you keep
yourself so harmonized, that as you call your Pres­
ence forth into action, Its Powers flow through like
a rushing river.
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 251
You know, when you lift a gate in a dam, the water
rushes forth. Your harmonious feeling maintained
and your call to the Presence are just like lifting the
Flood-gates of your Being, for the Mighty Power of
the Presence rushes forth into your world, giving the
Service you require. Your call to your Presence is
just as definite! Because you do not see It makes no
difference. The Presence acts and the energy acts!
Hereafter, in your call to the “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” will you not feel this? Feel, every time you
call to your Presence, that you simply lift the Flood­
gates of your Being and Its great Inner Power rushes
forth to release the service you require. I Myself have
had tremendous results from this feeling, and if it
will help you then I shall be glad.
Anyone who has ever had his attention called to
the “ Mighty I AM Presence,” can no longer be in
limitation of any kind. He need not experience any
kind of ill health. The instant some appearance of
distress comes within yourself or an appearance of
limitation enters into your outer world, refuse ac­
ceptance of it; give it no energy to act in your world.
Say to any disturbance in your body: “ Get out! I
refuse acceptance of all disturbance.” And it will obey
positively.
As you practice this, you will have no difficulty in
controlling not only the feelings in your body but
the energy which goes out into your world. You will
252 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
learn to feel such a definite focus from here—
your
heart center—that It will be like a Ray of Light
going out and holding Its focus of Light steady, until
the work is accomplished. It is the easiest, most won­
derful way of accomplishment, beloved ones, that
could ever be conceived for mankind.
You no longer have to struggle and battle with the
things of the outer world, when you call the Presence
into action, to hold you firm in the Pathway of Light.
Clear out of your Pathway of Light everything dis­
cordant. Call your Presence to take you forward
quickly into all you wish to achieve, and you will have
no difficulty in doing it. Your Presence knows no
resistance or interference, and when you call It into
action, It goes forth anywhere in the Universe to ful­
fill your call.
If you are not having results, remember in your
feeling world there is something obstructing the way.
Then call the Presence to take out of your world what­
ever the obstruction is. Then, the Power of the Pres­
ence will flow on to do Its Perfect Work. You are
not subject, precious ones, any longer to the condi­
tions which exist in the outer world!
You beloved ones, who are musical or have artistic
talents, utilize this Knowledge of the Presence to its
fullest extent! Every one can speak and sing with
the Voice of the “ Mighty I AM Presence.” For your
hands, if you are artistically inclined or wish to play
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 253
instrumental music, say: “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
these are Your Hands! take command of them! pro­
duce Your Perfect Harmonies, Your Perfect Beauty
and Perfection through them. Then you will make
your hands a perfect channel for your “ Mighty I AM
Presence” to use, and the most wonderful things in
the world will be produced.
In My experience up until I met Saint Germain, I
had not the slightest inclination to paint, and ap­
parently no artistic temperament; but recently, I
produced one of the most remarkable paintings which
I hope one day to bring forth into visibility for you.
I found that whatever I called for comes forth into
action. This is what I want you to feel. Anything
upon which your attention is fixed, the Presence will
bring forth and produce the results; whether it be
in music, art, the supply you require or whatever the
activity is.
It matters not, for the Presence will produce the
result for you through the power of your attention,
your vision and qualification; but do not allow your
human self at any time to interfere with that. When
you make your decree, stand by it! When you call
your Presence into action to perform a certain serv­
ice, stand by it! for nothing can stop it but yourself!
To-night, precious ones, may I convey to you the
Love from Pearl, Nada, Rex, Mr. and Mrs. Rayborn
and David Lloyd, who Love you so greatly. They
2 5 4 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
will be of great Assistance to you and all the young
people of America. One day all the “ I AM ” Stu­
dents, all young people will meet in one great con­
clave! Maybe you think I am prophesying—I Am
not prophesying; but it will be! It will be a very
wonderful thing! You know when the Ascended
Masters plan something it always works out. Is not
that a wonderful thing to know? There is no human
obstruction that can get in Their Way. So We want
you to feel this, if you will.
Remember, beloved ones, the Law of Life is Har­
mony. Harmony maintained is the Infinite Invita­
tion for the Glory of your Presence to flood forth
into your world, produce Its Perfection and hold Its
Dominion forever. Nothing in the world can inter­
fere with it, but yourself! The only way you can inter­
fere with it is by inharmony in your feeling. That is
easy enough for your Presence to control, if you will
call It into action to do it.
Precious ones, in the removing of habits or any­
thing that you wish to get rid of, your Presence is
the Power that does it. You but call the Presence into
action, to take out of you the desire which caused
the habit and to replace it by the Perfection of the
Presence. No matter what it is that has been accumu­
lated in your Life, you do not care; because the Pres­
ence will take out the desire, and replace it by the
Ascended Masters’ Satisfaction and Perfection.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 255
This is how you can have everything that is beauti­
ful, happy and Perfect in your Life, expressed and
acting there every moment. If you so choose you can
do it and it is sure. Call your Presence into action to
produce the results, because the human of itself does
not have the sustaining power to maintain Perfection.
Whatever the human does is but temporary, but by
calling your Presence into action, you can have a
sustained activity.
It is because of the temporary action of the human
that mankind has had relief and then the illness or
condition returns. This has occurred simply because
individuals did not know the sustaining Power or
Qualification. Before they knew it the feelings became
discordant and they began to accept the old condition
again in the feeling. Then the whole thing recoiled.
This is not so in your understanding of the Presence,
when calling It into action.
So to-night, with all the Love of My Heart, I con­
vey to you the Love and Blessings of those who Love
you so much more than you can know in the outer,
and who stand ready to give every Assistance. When
you have called the “ Mighty I AM Presence” into
action, do not hesitate to call upon any of Us and
whatever Assistance We can give, you may be sure
will be given.
We want you to go forth so victorious, so marvel­
ous in your achievement. Do not let the human opin-
256 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
ions of the outer world govern you. Stand firm in
your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” calling It forth into
action and do not allow anyone to make you feel,
that you are being deprived of any human sense ac­
tivity. That is where you need to be firm and stand
your ground, against the suggestion of people who
do not understand this Law. Such great strength is
within you, that I am sure no one of you will have
any difficulty, in holding your own in and with your
“ Mighty I AM Presence.” With all the Love of Our
Beings, We pour forth to you like a Mighty River
Its Eternal Perfection. I thank you.
S A I N T G E R M A I N ’ S D I S C O U R S E
PAN PACIFIC CLASS
APRIL 4, 1937
B
ELOVED students of Los Angeles, great is My
. privilege this day in voicing to you My Grati-
' tude, My Boundless Gratitude for your sin­
cerity, your loyalty to the Light, to your own “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” and to My Humble Efforts. A great
fruition is taking place, after so many centuries of
effort. Not until this understanding of the “ Mighty
I AM Presence” has been brought forth, could man­
kind be sustained or even that which was tempo­
rarily accomplished, be made permanent.
So, I give you these words to-day, as an eternal—
an everlasting—stabilizing encouraging Power, to
act within you and your world and produce the Per­
fection which you, through your heart, desire. It is
a long, long time since there has been released
through the human forms of mankind such a loyalty
and Radiance, as has come forth in this class. I want
you to know that for your own encouragement. When
I see the precious beloved students willing to even
make sacrifices, to give assistance for the broadcasts
which will reach so many people, then My Heart
thrills with Joy and a Gratitude which shall ever
257
258 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
enfold you; and the Powers that I understand and
wield shall enfold you!
From this class, there begins a Mighty Activity.
We have asked permission of the Great Cosmic Light,
to encompass you to-day in the beginning of Its
Action to-morrow. Thus, shall you feel and have
to-day that which will come into Its fullness of action
to-morrow. Never in the history of mankind has
there been the willing attention, obedience and the
great sincere interest in the Light that is being shown
to-day. By the return of the Messengers to you in July
you will feel, or will have felt, many wonderful
things.
You are beginning to realize, beloved ones, that
this is not just another activity brought forth; but It
is a permanent, established, Mighty Activity, which
is expanding within you and will always continue to
expand. Even those who temporarily turn aside,
through listening to foolish gossip, will return again
and see their great mistake. So, dear ones, stand
within your Presence untouched by human gossip
or interference, knowing that all is within your grasp
in the acceptance of your Presence and Its applica­
tion. The practicing of your Presence is the greatest
thing on earth.
Do you realize to-day what you have done in en­
abling this broadcast to go forth in New York? I
think not, but ere long I am sure you will. You have
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 259
heard mentioned throughout the many years and
centuries, the idea of brotherly Love. Is there any
greater than that? Is there anything greater than the
Service you have rendered here? You are willing to
make possible the spreading of this Knowledge to
enable thousands and perhaps millions to hear It,
who would never have contacted the Work in per­
haps many years otherwise. Aside from the Mighty
Decrees which you have been issuing, doing so much
for mankind and yourselves, you are transcending
even that, in giving this to a still greater number of
mankind.
I try to call this to your attention, not for any hu­
man praise; but because of the great Reality of the
Light within you, which has responded to the neces­
sity and the requirement. You shall be blessed, be­
loved ones, you who have been so generous, for I
shall see that you are blessed in ways which you do
not know.
We, from the Ascended Masters’ Octave of Life,
having accomplished Our Victory here, We must
have the co-operation of mankind, in order to release
the greatest Powers which We know and understand
how to use. Only through your call to the Presence,
can We release sufficient Power to govern the condi­
tions that are confronting you to-day.
So much has been accomplished since the Mes­
sengers were in Honolulu, that should I suddenly
260 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
flash before you the achievement, you would remem­
ber it forever. I want you to know that this is no
idle thing. It is no human concept or someone’s
imagination, but a Mighty Activity of the Law of
Life and Love which has gone into action.
Your part of it has been tremendous in your will­
ing obedience to call, and call, and call. Through
your Group Decrees, such a volume of Intelligent
Energy and Substance has been released, into the
mental and feeling world of mankind, as to perform
a service almost indescribable. May I remind you
to-day, that in calling forth through your decrees
this Mighty Activity of the Presence and the As­
cended Masters, you are charging into the mental
and feeling world this Mighty, Self-luminous, Intel­
ligent, Ascended Master Substance and that from the
Great Love Star.
This means only that substance remains to be puri­
fied which you have qualified in the past. Only it has
power to longer act within your world. May I repeat
those words: “ No longer has any qualification power
to act in your world, except that which has been
accumulated up to this point.” This means that
former discordant causes cannot have any substance
in the future to act in your world; because of your
call for the Substance from the Ascended Masters’
Octave of Life.
The Divine Director, who will dictate to you to-
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 261
night has rendered a Service unparalleled thus far.
It has been done through your Love poured out in
this class and the Love from the rest of the sincere
“ I AM ” Students through America and the world.
To Us, you must understand, there is no time nor
space. We go to and fro in the world in Our Ascended
Master Bodies, just as tangible, however, as yours.
We require no time nor space. By that, I mean We
may go from one part of the world to the other in
two to three or four minutes, and that is what man­
kind needs to know to-day. They need to know, this
Freedom is for them. As you enter more and more
into this Great and Mighty Consciousness of your
‘‘Mighty Presence,” you will come to understand and
feel thoroughly, that the same Freedom and Do­
minion is for you.
It is amazing how mankind continues to believe,
that things to which it has not been accustomed are
impossible; just because they have not previously had
information concerning such things or their attention
has not been called to them. You will find that you,
yourselves, ere many years are over your heads, will do
exactly what you think to-day is impossible for you to
accomplish. I am calling your attention to this now
that you may watch it, if you will.
Again, I say to you: This is no idle imagination.
It is a Mighty Power gone into action—
your Power,
your ‘‘Mighty I AM Presence.” We, Who have ac-
262 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
complished the Victory, stand ever ready to encour­
age, to strengthen, to give you of Our Life to sustain
and encourage you unto your Victory, and even your
Ascension.
Oh I plead with you, beloved Students of the
Light, who have been in this Light for a year or
more: never allow your human self or anyone else,
to cause you to question for one second, your ability
to make your Ascension, even in this embodiment. I
tell you again that age, as you know it, has nothing
whatever to do with it. The expansion of the Light
within you has everything to do with it, and the hu­
man self knows nothing about that.
As the Messenger has so often said to you, do not
limit yourself as to what the Presence can do for you
and through you. Do not longer give power to limit­
ing appearances. You have entered into a Mighty
Stream of Light. It is All-powerful; but you still have
free will. You still have the ability to operate your
Power of qualification. If you are not willing to give
obedience to harmony and hold it within your feel­
ings, then you but delay the achievement and must
wait that much longer.
I want to say a word or two, a few words, to you
who are in these Groups. The pledges you take are
to your Presence and no one else. Do not I plead
with you, go into those Groups out of curiosity, un­
less you are willing to fulfill that requirement to
ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES 263
which you have put your name. You do not under­
stand yet what it means, or the action of the Law
when unfaithful to your own Light. Your heart has
always been willing, but now your intellect has said:
“Yes, I am willing to abide by this.” Remember,
you are acting under the Law of your Great Presence,
the All-Seeing-Eye of God, your “ Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” from which no single motive or act is hidden.
Sometimes, the Messengers have plead with the
beloved students so long, yet they will go on, doing
the things that they know in their hearts are a tragic
mistake. They think that no one knows it. We cannot
help knowing what is within your motive; what is*
within your world; for it is imprinted on the at­
mosphere about you, because every thought, feeling
and motive is a record which We have to read. Not
that We seek to do it, but if We are going to help
you We must read it. Will you not feel now to-day
and hold it forever, that the All-Seeing-Eye of God,
which your Higher Mental Body uses, knows every
single thing that occurs, in your Life, every feeling
and motive that is there? Do not try to deceive your
Presence!
I am speaking with all the Love of My Heart, for
I want to help you. I want you to see, if you will,
the mistake of just humanly entering into a thing
without a pure honest motive back of it. Remember!
in your heart center, as well as in the heart center of
264 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
the Staff who serve these two Messengers, must come
purity, loyalty and faithfulness, if you are to go for­
ward in the Light. Deception is an unpardonable
thing anywhere in the world, and above all in the
students who have come to know their “ Mighty I AM
Presence.”
So, if you have made mistakes, this is the point in
which I am trying to help you—if you have made
mistakes and you know the heart always knows, there
is no one who can make excuses for it. Self-pity and
vanity are out. They have no part in this work!
Therefore, I want you to feel, that I hold your hand
to help you overcome all these things. If you have
made mistakes, call immediately on the Law of For­
giveness and ask the Presence to wipe them out, dis­
solve and consume, cause and effect of that mistake
or any other. We are watching very closely all the stu­
dents and We know every one that is not sincere.
So precious ones, let Us help you, will you not?
Will you not call on the Law of Forgiveness for any
mistakes you have made? Then with your face to the
Light, with your attention to the Presence, call Its
Mighty Powers and Intelligence into action to give
you Self-control, discriminating Intelligence, Mas­
tery over your human desires. Then, will you go
forward quickly into the full Freedom and Glory
which is yours.
I am taking this opportunity to-day to talk to you
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 265
very close in your heart. I feel your heart-beat while
I talk to you, for in that I am trying earnestly to help
you free yourself in every way possible to-day. The
Great Divine Director has rendered you a transcend­
ent Service. Only when you have made the Ascen­
sion, will you see how great it is.
Think of it, Oh My precious ones! of all the cen­
turies that mankind has been compelled one by one
to go into the Retreats, away from the discord of the
outer world in order to gain this Victory. Now, this
Knowledge of the “ I AM ” is brought forth. There is
also being given the Assistance of the Great Divine
Director and the others who have come forth to assist
the Great Cosmic Light in the Perfect Work It must
do for mankind. Mankind need not fail, if individ­
uals will give attention to the Presence, as they have
been directed.
In setting aside the third year for you, there has
been released a blessing never before given to man­
kind. You have noticed, at least you have heard Us
mention, step by step certain accomplishments for
you. That again is not any imagination, but a Mighty
Reality. To-day as I speak to you, My Heart throbs
with greatest Joy and Gratitude that you have been
able to so bring yourselves into the requirement that
the Divine Director could do this for you. Not only
has this Help been given to you here, but also to the
‘‘I AM ” Students throughout America and the world.
266 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
How and Why? Because of your Mighty Decrees
going forth in the mental and feeling world of man­
kind and being issued uniform throughout America.
Now do you not appreciate what your blessed
brother Harry Rogers, did in compiling from the
books and the magazines the Group Outline; which
the Great Divine Director asked us to use, that the
activity might be uniform throughout America, for
this very identical accomplishment? It has been ac­
complished.
Precious ones, will you not feel and allow a great
deep gratitude to fill your heart and world for this?
To some of you it may sound like so many words.
Oh, that you knew how much more It really means.
Will you not accept, take advantage of this oppor­
tunity, and with a greater earnestness, greater sin­
cerity and greater firmness, call the Great Intelligent
Energy forth from your “ Mighty I AM Presence,”
to act in you and your world and continue this ac­
complishment with the speed of lightning? I tell
you that it is possible at this point, if you will follow
the directions I offer, to accomplish all with the speed
of lightning.
Beloved ones of Los Angeles, who have taken the
initiative in much of the call that has gone forth, it
is very wonderful. Our Blessed Mr. Sindelar! he has
so untiringly worked to beautify and bring forth the
wonderful material that has gone into the “Voice of
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 267
the I AM ” ! How every one in America should bless
him. Within that blessed brother are dissolving all
human things, all human qualities. Each day more
and more, he is feeling the selflessness of that Great
Service which he chose to render, at the request of
the Ascended Master, Jesus. Such loyalty of service is
a Beacon-Light everywhere.
So also is the service of you Group Leaders and
beloved students everywhere a Beacon-Light, in that
same great loyalty and selflessness. So too is the
twenty-four hour Service, which you are rendering
of your own volition. Does it not show to the world
what loyalty to the Light means? In that constant
improvement and beauty of your mind, body, world
and the greater supply which is coming forth for you,
is an eternal proof to all mankind of the Great Real­
ity of this Great Stream of Light.
To-day, Oh beloved ones, great is your privilege!
great is your Freedom, which stands with the door
wide open facing into the great Eternal Light which
holds all things for you. Will you not accept it? Will
you not continue? The Great Presence has pushed
back the doors of doubt and fear and over you is
written in Golden Light—“Your Freedom.” Will
you not accept It? Enter in now with great firm de­
termination, and see how quickly will all disturb­
ance dissolve and disappear from your world.
You are now the Master of your world, if you will
268 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
but accept and use your Dominion of the Presence.
Never question your ability, your authority, your
power of achievement. God, the “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” Whose Ray of Light and Energy beats your
heart and sustains your Life is your certain Victory
always. Will you not engrave that upon your con­
sciousness for constant use; so It may show you and
give you the eternal proof that you cannot fail. A
little child when learning to walk falls down many
times, but does it think anything about that? It gets
up and tries again.
So to-day, if you have made mistakes, be not dis­
couraged by it, but with a firmer determination arise
and say: “ Mighty I AM Presence,” see that I make
no more mistakes! Take command of this mind and
body! stop this human activity that makes mistakes!
let your Intelligence direct, your Mighty Light pro­
tect, and hold me invincible against any outside con­
dition, suggestion or anything else, which would de­
prive me any longer of my Freedom and Victory.
Written above you in the Open Door and the Light
of your Presence is your Victory. You have accom­
plished It now. Go forth, look not to right nor left,
but stand firm in the Glory of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” until the fulness of It comes quickly into
action. It not only beautifies and perfects your body,
but in It you stand firm, untouched by human sug­
gestions of any kind.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 269
When people come to you with discordant things,
be silent. Then, you will hold your world in this
Great Harmony, until the fulness of it looses the
Power of the Presence to go forth and do what is
required. No one thing is more difficult for mankind
to conquer, than the continual revolving in thought
of some discordant thing, or continued—
will you
pardon the expression—hashing over with your ac­
quaintances or friends, things that are discordant.
Put them out of your Life and never refer to them,
if you want to be free. When one human tries to
blame something on to another human, they are
stifling their own progress. Remember, that your
heart knows well enough whether you have made
a mistake or not. If you have not, then any one who
says you have, cannot harm you. So remember that.
Now again, I say to you, the doors of doubt and fear
are open, held back by the Hands of your “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” and above you is Freedom.
EN TER IN!
I say to the precious young people, beloved ones
of the Light! guard your world! your feeling world!
Shun drink, intoxicants of every kind, excesses of
every kind as you would a poisonous serpent. You
have, in the acknowledgment of your Presence, the
quick Open Door to your Freedom, if you govern
your feeling world; but do not accept the vicious sug­
gestions that come through the schools and colleges
270 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
to-day, through the vicious activity which has entered
into those wonderful places. Know that the Purity
of your Presence is the only thing worth while in
your world. Then, you will be able to hold your bal­
ance, go forth in the call to your Presence and fill
your world with the Perfection It holds for you. If
you waste your energy, if you accept these tragic
suggestions, then you will follow the trend of man­
kind and be in the limitations of the outer activity.
To-day, you have the Knowledge in your hand, the
Scepter in your hand, in the Name of the “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” by which you can fill your world
with happiness, beauty, purity and Perfection. I
plead with you, stand guard over your world! Your
Presence will, if called into action!
Remember you can love your friends more power­
fully without your arms around them. Then, you
are not in danger of the human desires sweeping in
and causing you to do things you will regret the rest
of your Life. Oh beloved precious young people! I
have watched the progress of mankind throughout
the centuries, and have seen beautiful blessed young
men and women go down under the desires of the
human, and suggestions from the human, that tell
them they should waste their energy. Then in a few
years, they become decrepit and aged, when they
could have maintained the youth, beauty and Perfec­
tion in their bodies, sustained by the conservation of
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 271
that energy. Oh you young people and you older
people, who have made mistakes! call on the Law of
Forgiveness! take a firm determined stand with the
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” to hold control in your
world, to take out of you all wrong desires and to hold
Its Dominion there forever.
To-day, beloved ones, My Love enfolds you with
the fulness of Its Power, for your happiness, Freedom
and Ascension. I pour forth the Great Love of the
Great Host of Ascended Masters, the Great Cosmic
Beings and the Legion of Light, to glorify, to enfold
you and hold you within Its Mighty Radiance unto
your Eternal Victory. The Glory of the Light of God,
the “ Mighty I AM Presence” within you, enfold you
in Its invincible Protection! enfold you in Its Mighty
Directing Intelligence and clothe you in Its Mighty
Light forever sustained. I thank you.
G R E A T D I V I N E D I R E C T O R ’ S
D I S C O U R S E
PAN PACIFIC CLASS
APRIL 4, 1937
G
LO RIFIED are all this day in the Sacred Radi-
r ance of the Great Cosmic Light, which has
• come into action at Our bidding to-day; that
you might have the benefit of Its Radiance in this
concentrated Energy, Intelligence and Activity. Out
of the fulness of this Great Cosmic Light will come
to humanity its Freedom! In your great call to the
Light, Which is your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” you
are fulfilling the requirements of the human octave
of Life. Without that, the Great Cosmic Light would
not be able, but in a small degree, to interfere with
your free will. The call of so many in America to-day
has made it possible for this Blessing of the Great
Cosmic Light, to enter in the fulness of Its Power.
T o this end, We hope for complete Freedom. The
next few months will tell how much of the cataclys­
mic activity will be governed.
Unhappy Europe! Will you with Us visualize and
call forth the Mighty Cosmic Light, the Assistance
of the Great Legion of Light, the Great Host of
Masters and the Great Cosmic Beings, to stay the on-
272
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 273
rushing destruction there? Much depends upon your
call. Europe does not understand how. The great
mass of the people have largely accepted the appear­
ance. Therefore, I ask you to give your call for the
assistance of your fellow man there. You cannot im­
agine the service you might render! In all the activity
of the Messengers We have never once asked this;
but to-night I ask it, because it is needed.
There is a great volume of energy and Light re­
leased at the call of more than two hundred thousand
students, who are sending up their call to-night;
knowing this is the closing day of this class; knowing
of some of the great Radiance which is here. How
grateful, how very grateful We are, Who have waited
so long, for the attention of mankind to be drawn to
these limitless Powers, that could give them the As­
sistance required.
You to-day, who are learning something of this
great Infinite Law, the Law of Life, and Its conscious
application, are privileged indeed. We, Who have
attained, have Our Freedom and so long have been
waiting for mankind to come to the point where this
could come forth, are grateful for this call. Other­
wise, this would have been the greatest cataclysm
which has ever come on earth. We hope to minimize
it, so the least possible destruction will occur. May
the on-rushing Cosmic Light produce Its Perfection
for mankind in and through them, untouched, un-
274 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
colored by human discordant creation. Many of you
will live to see and experience the Great, Great Trans­
formation! It is on Its way!
Tire not in giving your Mighty Decrees for the
Freedom of the earth! Know you not, Oh precious
ones, that in the call to the Light for the Freedom of
America and the world, your Freedom is compelled
to come forth; because in this call your thought and
feeling are withdrawn from self? Do you know that
intellectual vanity and self-pity are the greatest
tragedies in the experience of mankind to-day? It
takes away from the individual the recognition and
acceptance of the Power of Light, which beats each
heart; which gives each one the service he requires.
To-night, Our rejoicing is so very great to be of
assistance. For the service, which it has been possible
for Me to render since the Messengers were in San
Francisco, I am very grateful and joyous to say, has
been accomplished; because of your Love, the Love
of the students of Saint Germain. You shall, ere long,
know what the Beloved Saint Germain has meant
to you and the world!
To Him is due all credit, for the bringing forth of
this Wondrous Knowledge of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” in Its purity, clearness and simplicity. It
cannot be misunderstood. Yet the majesty of Its
Power is there. Behold it! Oh beloved Children of
the Light. Use it! feel your authority in your call to
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 275
your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” and waver not!
Your Victory is sure! through the Service which I
have been able to render you, all students in America
and those in the other parts of the world who are in
touch with this Radiance! Do you know, have you
thought how there are those already in touch with
this Radiance, in every nation in the world?
Quickly and surely, there have gone forth these
wonderful books, giving the experience of this be­
loved brother standing before you. They are carry­
ing this Light to the world. Into all parts of the world,
those books have gone. Their Light carries them
everywhere, and ere long, they will reach hundreds
of thousands and carry their Message of Light and
Freedom to all.
Your call, beloved ones, your decrees have acted
with almost Infinite Power. Do you realize what a
blessing you are giving to the rest of mankind—you,
who have come to know the Glory and Freedom into
which you have entered? As the Beloved Saint Ger­
main told you to-day, Oh, your door-ways are held
back by your Mighty Presence, because of your call
to It. Doubts and fears shall vanish from the earth! I
so decree it, that mankind may enter into the Glory
of the Freedom which every heart knows and one
day will experience!
So We ask you to go on, and on, and on, into the
greater and greater Light and Freedom. Arise!
276 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
awaken! in the fulness of the Light of your Presence,
that your Light may shine and illumine the earth;
that you may pour forth such a Mighty Radiance
from your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” that the very
Radiance becomes visible to the human form. Then
will mankind seek the Light, every one!
Weary not, Oh beloved ones, who have called so
earnestly for some definite manifestation of the proof
of these Great Laws. Surely you have before you, so
far as proof is concerned, every proof that any heart
can desire of the Reality of these Laws and their ap­
plication. Yet, shall your call be answered more fully.
Abide in patience. Your call cannot be denied!
Remember, as your earnestness and intensity in­
crease and the Light within you expands, it becomes
compulsory for that Great Light to answer you, if
your sincerity remains dauntless. You have in your
hands—Oh, that you might understand it fully—
your
Scepter of Power and Freedom! Apply It, Oh beloved
ones, with all earnestness, giving no thought as to
time nor space; but just go on in the great joy of
applying the Law of your Presence. Let It do Its Per­
fect Work, in Its own good time; see that the intellect
and human impulses do not in any way interfere
with the Glory of Its expansion; for It will one day
give you all the proof in the world that you want, or
any one else, of Its Efficiency, Its Power, Its Authority.
So, I ask you to be patient. Naught shall be withheld
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 277
from any one, who has entered into this Freedom
which just came! Make no mistake! It is no idle
concept!
In the setting aside of this one year period, it
means one-third of your Life effort in this embodi­
ment is set aside, glorifying you by an Assistance
unheard of in the history of the earth. It gives As­
sistance in dissolving and consuming your own crea­
tions, that you may more quickly enter into the Free­
dom of the Light which beats your heart, the
“ Mighty I AM Presence.” May you all feel the im­
portance of these Words.
I speak as One having Authority—all Authority-
human, Divine and Cosmic! Therefore, you shall see
the Fulfillment of My Words! According to the ear­
nestness and intensity with which you continue to
adore your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” call It forth
into action and hold harmony in your feelings, will
this come quickly or yet be delayed.
The Messengers are pleading with you, with all
the students everywhere, for the need of harmony
maintained in your feelings; of purity of thought and
feeling. Then the Great Law can come forth quickly
and do Its work. You precious ones, humanly your
part is to make the call, stand by with firm determina­
tion and allow the Great Power of Infinite Light, to
flow forth through you and into your world to do
Its Perfect Work, Its Mighty process of creation.
278 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
No longer does the power of darkness control man­
kind. To-day, it has lost its power. To-morrow, you
shall enter through your Gates of Freedom! To the
degree that you can feel the Truth of My Words and
feel It active within you, shall It be quickly or other­
wise manifest. This is for you individually as well
as the nation. As the Great Decrees go forth con­
tinuing their mighty work, and with the Assistance
of this Great Light, will the earth send forth its praise
and rejoicing. Even the rocks shall tremble with the
joy of Freedom; even the trees and the vegetation
shall lift themselves in rejoicing.
Such is the Power that awaits the earth. You, Oh
precious ones, are responsible, because of your will­
ingness to stand the impact of human thought and
feeling; your willingness to go on in the acceptance
of your Presence, in spite of the ridicule of the igno­
rant. In that call you have enabled this Great Light
to come forth; this Great Transcendent Blessing to
enter within the earth. Feel Its Glory, Its expanding
Light which will bring forth Freedom, happiness and
every good thing.
As the earth enters through this into its own once
again, then all shall have all required for use. All
human selfishness shall be wiped from the earth for­
ever. Then will there be released by that Light, more
than mankind’s fondest imagination has ever con­
ceived, even more by far. Can you not, will you not
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 279
live in this great, great anticipation, until you see
the fulfilling of Its Glory?
How privileged you are to be a part of the great
vanguard which is enabling this to be done. Oh pre­
cious ones, do you in your outer activity sometimes
feel humble because of your lack of something? Then
I say to you: Arise! Awaken! Stand forth! in the Light
of your “ Mighty I AM Presence,” and allow Its
Power to take out of you that feeling! Feel your
authority and power in the acceptance of your Pres­
ence, to let this Light flow forth to bless, heal, prosper
and enlighten all with whom you come in contact
and flood the earth with its Purity and Perfection.
Mankind being the creator of all that has limited the
earth and yourself, then in that great call shall come
the release. Even the earth shall find itself again re­
joicing in the Glory of this Freedom, as well as your­
selves.
To-day will you not rejoice with Me, with all of
Us? Enter again into great calm serenity in the send­
ing forth of your Decrees, individually and in your
Groups, that the Perfect Mighty Work of the Pres­
ence may go forth filling the earth with Its Beauty
and Perfection. I rejoice with you with all My Heart
that there are so many of mankind to-day whose Light
has expanded enough, to allow them to recognize
their Presence.
Once they gaze upon that amazing Chart, they
280 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
know they have come home once again. In that, they
know and enter into the Glory of its application.
This causes the Great Light from within to expand
and expand, until every cell of the body becomes a
glowing blazing Sun of Light. Oh precious ones, will
you not believe Me, when I say, it is possible for
many of you sitting here in this room, to shortly call
forth the Light to expand in every cell of your body,
until every one about you can see that Light with his
physical eyes? There are five in this room whom I
could place My Hand upon and expand that Light,
until every one of you would see the Glory of It. I
say this for your encouragement. Will you not let
this Light expand?
In the great calm serenity and the fulness of the
Great Power which is the Light within you, you have
the reward It brings. Let no one, yourself or anyone
else, longer limit you in the acknowledgment of
your Presence! If you do, the fault is yours. Remem­
ber, nothing binds you but yourself. There is no
power in heaven or earth to bind you longer but
yourself.
In the fulness of My Love and Light, I bless you
Oh precious ones. To-day, you have become a part
of My Love! As those beloved children in India be­
came a part of My Love, so to-day you have become
a part of My Love! God bless you! Feel Its Wondrous
Embrace enfold you and sustain you forever with Its
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 281
Courage, Strength and Infinite Directing Wisdom;
Its full Power to act.
“ Mighty I AM Presence” of each one, I charge
through the Higher Mental Body of each one the
activity of My Presence and Power of Divine Love,
to do Its Perfect Work for these beloved ones of the
Light. I call forth the Mighty Violet Consuming
Flame to dissolve and consume quickly every vestige
of human creation. Will you join me in this call in the
silence and sacredness of your heart; that Its Service
and Assistance may be given without limit?
I leave with you the Blessings of the Great As­
cended Masters, the Legion of Light and the Great
Cosmic Beings. Remember, the Great Silent Watcher
has His eye upon you! No longer may the Students of
the Light practice any deception. Wise are they who
always tell the Truth. Accept to-night My Eternal
Enfolding Love, Light, Wisdom and Power to hold
you in Its Embrace, until your full Victory and As­
cension. I thank you.
O U R P R E C I O U S R E X ’ S
D I S C O U R S E
corporon’s long beach group
APRIL 5, 1937
B
ELOVED ones of California, it is My Great
, Joy to speak a few words to you from My Heart
' and to remind you, that not so many years ago,
I visited your city, with my father. Does it seem in­
credible to you, that so much could have taken place
in such a few years? Think, since this beloved brother
came into Our home in Wyoming, the heavens have
opened and We have entered into Our real Home
in Its fulness.
We thought Our mother had passed on, like most
people are supposed to do. Yet after this good
brother’s entrance in Our home, We too discovered
She had been free all those years. We sometimes
thought that she was possibly in the tomb where Her
body was placed. Then Beloved Saint Germain came
to My Father, explained all and began the Instruc­
tion which so quickly set Him free from the human
world and activity.
Beloved ones, feel with Me to-night Oh, how real,
how very real, is this Mighty Presence which beats
your hearts. In your sincere firm determination,
282
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 283
holding your attention upon the Presence, every­
thing can and will dissolve and disappear from you
and your world, which has held you bound in any
way. The Presence is doing it now, Oh precious ones!
It is doing it with great speed.
We are so grateful that you have established a
Reading Room in your city. It has been made a
Mighty Focus of Light. Give your full support to it.
Beloved ones, in your call to your Presence, never
miss one day calling your Presence into action, to
bless that Reading Room. Pour forth Its all­
expanding Power and Light, which the Great Ones
have drawn there to-night. Let it be an ever-
expanding activity to spread the Radiance of the
Presence in and through your city; to touch hun­
dreds of those whose Light has expanded sufficiently,
for them to accept this Understanding of the “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” and have the Blessing which It
brings.
You will notice, beloved ones, that there is not
a single part of this Understanding, which Saint
Germain has brought forth, that interferes with any­
thing in the world. It is just the glorious acknowledg­
ment of the Source of your Life, of all lives. It is All
Power acting in your world, taking command, hold­
ing Its Dominion, producing Its Perfection there,
forever sustained; and in your power of qualification,
beloved ones, assert this. Oh, that I might cause
284 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
you to feel now, the power which is within you to
assert it! assert this Dominion of your Presence! Feel
It deeply, until no longer a single human thing
touches your world, to cause you to waver for an
instant.
You know under the Radiance of Saint Germain,
We entered so quickly into the Glorious Radiance of
Our Presence, that We really had not time for any­
thing else to come. It is really very wonderful. Even
to-day, We continue to marvel at the speed with
which Our Freedom came to Us, after this blessed
brother came into Our home. He is in your home.
Do you realize that? In your home! for your home
is your world, and your world surrounds you. Do
you realize that, dear ones?
The greatest home in the world is the home that
surrounds you; because that is the only home you
can live in. You may live in buildings, but that is not
always your home, even though you may own it from
the human standpoint. Unless the Glory and
harmony in the Understanding of your Presence is
there, is it home? Tell me! Is it home, unless there
is the Harmony of the Presence within it?
Therefore, I call your attention to this to-night,
to remind you that your home is your world which
surrounds your human form, the only world in which
you can ever live. If you will realize this and then
in the acknowledgment of your Presence, fill your
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 285
world with the blazing dazzling Light of the Pres­
ence; then do you not see, if you are in a physical
home—
a building—the Radiance from your Pres­
ence will fill that home; because it knows no obstruc­
tion or interference? If you will think of your home
in that way, I am sure you will find enormous bless­
ing and benefit.
I think you might be interested, in knowing some­
thing of what We have been doing, since this good
brother returned from Chananda’s home in India.
We spent four and a half months in Chananda’s home
after his return. Then We returned to the Retreat
in Arabia, where the greatest, most magnificent
Understanding of the use of the Light Rays is given
forth. As all of us just naturally selected the use of
the Light Rays for the work We were to do, We re­
turned there to receive further Instruction.
You would possibly think that My imagination
were running riot, if I were to tell you the accomplish­
ment from that time to this; in Our ability to utilize,
to direct, to wield those Powers which come from
the use of the Light Rays. We are still just lads yet
you know, and yet, We are able to do things to-day,
precious ones, that seem absolutely incredible to the
human sense. I say this to-night, to carry forth the
Radiance of the Truth of Our accomplishment, into
your mental and feeling world; that you may feel
the Power of Our Activity in your feeling world,
286 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
because remember, your feeling world is your Power­
house. Unless you do get the full consciousness of a
thing into your feeling, you are only having partial
results, and that is the trouble with mankind to-day.
Individuals still unknowingly, keep trying to do a
thing with the human intellect, which is not the
Knower! never was! never will be! because the heart
is the True Knower, and the full Power of the Pres­
ence is anchored in the heart.
When the intellectual activity is backed up by
the Feeling of the Truth from the heart and intensi­
fied by It, then the intellect can be a remarkable
servant. This is why to-night, I endeavor to charge
into your feeling world the confidence, the convic­
tion of your power to release from your Presence, at
your call, and anchor within your feeling world,
certain qualities which it is My Privilege to pour
forth. How? Through the very projection of these
Light Rays, which We have learned how to use.
Beloved ones, if you once knew the power that
exists within your feeling world through the activity
of your attention, you would leave the floor, in the
magnificence of that sudden realization; because
momentarily you would sever the pull of earth. One
day in the Retreat in Arabia, when We were tre­
mendously in earnest, in fact We had become so
intense upon the acquirement of what was before
Us and its use, that four times We suddenly found
M
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 287
Our feet at least three feet above the floor. We were
standing there in the atmosphere, just as firm as We
had stood a few moments before on the floor. This
is how with intense attention to a specific thing and—
to the extent that you have forgotten your form -
does it cause the earth to lose all attraction for your
body. Then, you will notice, the moment your at­
tention comes back you settle down again.
This activity, through the attention, is what is go­
ing on in the feeling and outer activity of mankind
right along. You are raising. In your recent class,
for instance, you were raised to a Tremendous
Height. Again through your power of attention, in
most instances, as soon as you come back and touch
the outer world’s activity, you begin to accept its
limitations, and unknowingly these act in the feeling
body—the old habits to which you have been ac­
customed.
Here is a point We have found to be of great as­
sistance to Ourselves. Say: “ Mighty I AM Presence,
take eternal command of my power of qualification.
Do not let the old concepts or habit any longer have
power in my world.” If you will do that, you will find
it very helpful.
As We went on and on, We found there are those
in the world, I am sorry to say, who have wholly
destructive desires. We must counteract those desires
among mankind. There was only within the last three
288 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
months, one serving the destructive forces who con­
ceived an idea of a partial use of the Ray, one of
the Rays that was very destructive. Of course the
Ascended Masters are watching over the world and
They know immediately when anything of that kind
is attempted. It had to be forestalled. It was My Joy,
Privilege and Service to act in that capacity.
To-day, beloved ones, you are coming into an
Activity which has for long periods existed on Venus.
Notice! We are children yet, so to speak, and hope
We always shall be; but think of it, Bob, Pearl, Nada
and I are no older than these beloved children here
(Don and Marjory). Yet We have use to-day of these
Great Powers. In this Service which I was able to
render is a Joy that is boundless; for it makes Me
realize, that in the Service which I am later to render
in the outer world, It will continue to intensify Its
activity until one day, when I come into the outer
world and meet many of you, that same Power, that
same Activity will be there. This is why a few mo­
ments ago I said to you, if you knew the power which
you have for use in your feeling world by the power
of your attention, precious ones, you would set your­
selves free almost in one mighty sweep.
This is why the beloved Messengers have recently
called your attention to the necessity of saying so
powerfully, so firmly, to all appearances: “ You have
no power” ! Remember, precious ones, nothing in
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 289
the world has any power except what you give it, so
far as you are concerned or your world is concerned.
Therefore, anything that harms or limits you, to it
you gave your Life which enables it to act—to come
back and do that to you. Please get this firmly in your
consciousness to-night. If you will do as I request,
you will find a sense of Freedom never experienced
before. There is no one in the world who would not
absolutely set his foot down on such limitations in firm
determination, if he really understood that it is his
own Life going into a thing which comes back and
harms him. Otherwise, it could not act. No discord
or limitation could reach into anyone’s world except
through his own Life. I am sure you will get this into
your consciousness to-night as never before. When
you see an appearance out here of limitation, if that
comes back to you as a limitation, then your Life is
feeding it to limit or bring disturbance to you.
Then, you will say: “ Now then we are getting
down to Reality. If that be the case, I shall no longer
feed my Life into anything to come back and harm
me. This is just what all humanity has been doing.
Individuals have blamed everything else but them­
selves for the conditions. The Truth is, they were
feeding their own Life into the things which were
actually limiting them and causing disturbance.
Without the Stream of their Life it could not touch
their world. Do you not see that?
sgo ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
To-night, beloved ones, I shall anchor the Under­
standing of this within your consciousness. It will
stand there active for constant use. It will always re­
mind you of Its activity, when you suddenly begin
to accept, that something has power to harm or limit
you in the outer world.
You will stop right there and say: “ Oh no you
don’t! you did once, but you are not going to do it
any more! You are not going to use My Life to harm
me! ‘Mighty I AM Presence’ take command, cut this
off and see that I no longer accept these appearances
as having any power.” (Do you not feel that as I
am speaking it? It does enter into your feeling world
now, to act there with full power.)
“ No longer shall any appearance have any power
from my Life unless it expresses Perfection. Know­
ing, that only from the Presence can come Perfection,
then my attention shall go to my Presence; and
through my attention, there shall release from my
Presence everything I require, in my outer world
of activity. Knowing that my Presence is my Intel­
ligence, my Love, my Light, my Power to act, then
to my Presence alone will I give all Power and not
to human appearances. I am reminded, that every
time I give my attention to a limiting appearance or
destructive activity, my Life is feeding it and I cer­
tainly do not do so any more.”
Do you realize, beloved ones, that this very Con-
m a
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 291
sciousness will forever make you alert? It will keep
you prompted, any time you start to give your at­
tention to old habits and limiting or disturbing
things. You will be prompted instantly: “ No sir, you
do not do it” ! You will be surprised to find how alert
you become. Now mark you, this alertness is the
selective Intelligence from your Higher Mental Body.
Precious ones, notice this! Your Higher Mental Body
is still limited, so far as you are concerned, unless
you give It the full power to act.
Now then, by your refusing to give power any
longer to appearances which are harmful or disturb­
ing, it is just as if your Wall of Light says: “ No! so
far and no farther” ! Then your Wall of Light is
held firm to refuse acceptance to those appearances.
Your Wall of Light stands there unyielding and im­
penetrable. When you call to your Presence, there
is nothing which rushes in to disturb the outflow of
your “ Mighty I AM Presence” to perform Its Mighty
Service.
Believe me, beloved ones, do not give any con­
sideration to who you have been or anything about
it. If you begin to wonder, who you were and accept
that you were this, that or the other thing in some
other embodiment, you are dividing your attention.
Instead give your attention to the Presence to fill
your mind, body and world with the Perfection,
which the Presence holds. It is the same thing, dear
292 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
ones, as when you keep giving your attention to ap­
pearances that are of the outer world’s activity. You
begin to go back into the activity of the lives in which
you have lived, with which you are not concerned
to-day. It is not what you have been, but what you
are to-day that counts! So watch out, that you do not
fall into this habit of thought and feeling, for it limits
you and takes the energy which you need, to make
the call to the Presence and to enable It to flow out
into your world; to produce your Perfect Activity
and to give you Power to achieve Freedom here and
now.
Saint Germain is the most marvelous Being in the
world and His practical Application of the Law in
the manner in which He gives Assistance to the
students is a most unparalleled Thing. He will not
allow His students to give their attention to what they
have been before, if they want to be free. Just as long
as you keep feeding your Life, through the attention,
into that which you have been, you cannot be what
you desire to-day. See that?
To-day is the important thing. What you have been
is past and gone. Only to the extent that you call
on the Law of Forgiveness, for mistakes made and
use the Violet Consuming Flame to set you free from
your human creations brought forth thus far, are you
actually accomplishing the things required. How­
ever, you will not do this, if you keep feeding your
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 293
Life, through your attention, back into what you
have been before. Your former life has not a thing to
do with what you are to-day.
I would not give a snap of My finger whether I
was a prince, a king, a sheep herder or what I was
in the past; because when you come to the point of
the acknowledgment of your Presence, then you have
entered into your Eternal Stream of Freedom. There
is nothing that can interfere with your Victory, so
long as you refuse to give your Life to discordant
appearances, through your attention.
There have been any number of people who have,
because of the unusualness of it, begun to look back
and thus, enter into the vibratory action of embodi­
ments, in which they have lived in the past; and their
entire attention was taken off the Glory of their
Victory. Now that is why, dear ones, to-night I call
your attention to this; because there are some of the
students who unknowingly are dropping into such
habits. I plead with you, do not do it.
Give your whole attention, your whole Life to
the Presence that It may again return Its energy to
you, intensified with the feeling of Its Perfection
and purifying Activity. As you do that, beloved ones,
you will find such glory filling your mind and body.
On this particular point, do you know Saint Germain
is adamant? He says, do not dare give your attention
to any of Us, before you give it to your Presence.
294 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
This correct attitude is a most wonderful thing, be­
cause after all your Presence is you.
It is All-powerful. Even We bow to the Majesty of
the Presence of you who have not yet ascended; be­
cause your Presence knows exactly what you require,
I mean through your Higher Mental Body. The
Presence of an unascended being is not cognizant of
the requirements down here, but that one’s Higher
Mental Body is. It knows your requirements and
needs, therefore answers fully, and completely, if
your attention is not divided.
Will you not accept this to-night, precious hearts,
with the fullest co-operative power, and call your
Higher Mental Body into action to seize and hold
your attention on Perfection? Call to your Presence
to use Its Mighty Discriminating Intelligence to
stand guard over you. Every time you start to feed
your Life into some appearance out here, It will
prompt you like that (quick wave of hand). Then
if you say: “ Oh no, no more of that” ! you will be sur­
prised how quickly you can reverse those activities
and bring your attention back to the Presence; to pre­
vent your Life going out into a scattering activity
and acceptance of appearances that come before you.
You have no idea how powerful this is.
I tell you, precious ones, if you were to see the
energy that you feed into appearances in twelve
hours of the waking state, you could scarcely be-
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 295
lieve it. Now just think what it means, when you
become imbued with anger, intense criticism or some
intense feeling which releases a volume of energy
in one sweep. Do you not see, dear ones, how you
are just throwing your Life away, and scattering It
broadcast to do no good for yourself or any one
else? If you allow your feeling to catapult anger,
criticism, condemnation or impurity of thought, do
you not see how you intensify the same activity in
some one else of mankind and make it hard for that
one to gain his Victory? You are absolutely wasting,
completely wasting your own Life energy through
such feelings, scattering It broadcast without soil to
grow in; except when It strikes qualities of a dis­
cordant kind. Then you are making it hard for
someone else in that one’s endeavor to attain the
Victory.
Now you see your responsibility to your fellow-
man, to your assistants, those you love. When you do
such things, you are depriving yourselves constantly
of the Life energy which you require for your ac­
complishment or upon whatever your attention may
be fixed.
Dear hearts, I am grateful, very grateful for your
alertness to-night and that which you are anchoring
within your world for constant use, through your
feeling. I know positively that you are going forth
from this room to-night filled with a Consciousness
296 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
of your Victory, which you have never had yet. Now
do not misunderstand me. I do not consider that is
due to me, but to your acceptance of the Quality of
the Truth which is spoken.
Watch out! stand guard! be alert! you precious
ones, and do not allow any more of your energy to
go forth to feed destructive things, through the power
of your attention. Hold your energy, turn it back to
the Presence and say: “ Mighty I AM Presence, flood
me and my world with the Glory of your Perfec­
tion. Sustain It with your Directing Intelligence,
with your Power of achievement.” As you call Its
Power into action you will feel a Glory, not a tem­
porary thing, but an intensified constantly increasing
activity, called forth into action in your world, which
will glorify you with a happiness and strength that
you were not aware was there.
Notice! your Presence is the Power acting. What­
ever the condition is in your physical body or ap­
pearance has nothing to do really with the Ability of
your Presence. Your call is everything. Your refusing
to accept appearances which would be limiting, is
your power of assistance to the Presence; for that is
all It requires to release the fulness of Its Power and
action to produce Perfection in you and your world.
So to-night, in the Glory of the Freedom which
is yours; in the acknowledgment of your Presence,
which is the Governor of the Universe; will you not
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 297
keep yourselves reminded of these simple Truths
which are so majestic in action? Allow Them to come
forth in your world and produce Perfection for you,
by no longer feeding your Life into any discordant
thing—any limiting thing.
Old habit, dear ones, is a thing that has to be
conquered. You can quickly reverse all those habits
which have taken your energy, if you will. Remem­
ber, when you call your Presence into action to re­
verse these activities the Presence will do it; but you
must do your part in refusing to give your attention
and Life, through your attention, into these things.
Do you not see how absolutely logical and practical
it is? It gives you such Freedom in your feeling world.
Bob, Pearl and Nada are present with Me, and are
pouring out Their Great Love upon you. They have
been all the time I have been talking. You know, I
am very happy to say that My Sister, Nada, has taken
on many of the Qualities of the Beloved Lady Master
Nada, whose picture is in the Magazine. She made
her Ascension some 2,700 years ago. In our Associa­
tion with Them, it is amazing how quickly one takes
on those qualities. As you learn to hold yourself free
from discordant appearances, then They can more
quickly pour into your world, that which makes you
like Them.
There is one more point I want to leave with you
to-night, beloved ones: In your attention to the As-
298 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
cended Masters, Who have gone every step of the
way that you must go, and your attention has been
given so marvelously; They can fill you and your
world with the Quality which They are. In this way
My Sister, Nada, has taken on from the Lady Master,
Nada, the Qualities whch She has caused to become
so powerful in Her World.
First, give your acknowledgment to the Presence.
Then if you need courage and strength that you do
not seem quite able to call forth, turn your attention
to Saint Germain, Jesus, Nada, the Divine Director
or some of the other ascended Ones; Cha Ara,
Chananda, or some of those Blessed Ones. They will
come back to you, because Their Attention is again
upon the Consciousness of that which accomplishes
Perfection. Therefore, It must flow into your world
to do for you whatever you require. Do you not see
how perfectly practical all of that is? There is not any
thing impractical about any of It.
We try repeatedly to bring to your attention cer­
tain things, and show you definitely how you can
right now begin to govern your world. Refuse to
give attention to appearances which have disturbed
you and give all your attention to your Presence.
Now do you not see how that, which is known as
doubt and fear, could not affect you or your world,
unless you feed your energy into it. That is your
qualification. Your Life goes out and becomes
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 299
charged with fear to come back and disturb you; or
it goes out and is charged with doubt, which comes
back and causes you to doubt.
Do you not see how—
right now—
you are Master
of your world and the governing activity which con­
trols those qualities and prevents them any longer
entering into your Life or world? It is the most prac­
tical thing anyone could conceive, and it is within the
use of any person who will apply it, but you must
be alert. You cannot, dear ones, just let your feelings
run riot. You must call the Presence into action and
refuse any longer to give attention to things out here.
Wherever your Life flows, It not only gives action,
but must bring back its effect upon you sooner or
later.
To-night, in the fullest Power of the Ascended
Host, I ask Them to anchor within your feeling world
the full Power of every word that has been spoken
here, to make this practical; to give you the full con­
sciousness of your ability to control, through the
power of your attention, all of these activities which
have taken your Life energy or given it a power to
disturb or limit you. That no longer has any power!
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” I issue that decree for
these beloved ones to-night. Stand guard over their
attention! hold their attention in control, conscious
control, that they no longer feed their Life into any
limiting, discordant, destructive activity to come back
300 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
and touch their world! Stand guard, “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” over the attention of each one and hold
it upon Thee. See that it is always held upon Thee
and Thy Perfection! Supply their worlds with every­
thing that they require and in abundance! The Pres­
ence is not limited, and in the Light which beats your
heart, which is Self-luminous Intelligent Substance,
is all that you require.
To-day, you have entered into the Activity of the
Mighty Cosmic Light, or rather yesterday, and you
have Assistance heretofore unknown. Will you not
accept it? In this humble simple Explanation I have
given to-night, will you not remember it and re­
mind yourselves often, that your attention must be
to your Presence? Every time it tries to go to some­
thing outside, say: “ Stop! I will have no more of that.
You obey the Law of your Presence; put your at­
tention there! Then, my world will have the Power,
the Perfection which my Presence is. I refuse any
longer to give my attention to anything else. There­
fore, there is nothing can longer enter into my world
but that Perfection which is the Presence.
Out of the Eternal Light and Thy Glory, Oh
“ Mighty I AM Presence,” We accept to-night the
fulness of Thy active Presence, Thy Eternal guard
about each one; that their attention may be held
firmly upon Thee with absolute refusal to let it act
anywhere else. Therefore, It releases over all of them
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 301
a constant Stream of Thy Almighty Energy, bring­
ing Perfection, Happiness, Health and everything
good into the world of each one forever sustained.
I thank you.
O U R B E L O V E D N A D A ’ S
D I S C O U R S E
RATANA’s HOLLYWOOD GROUP
APRIL 6, 1937
Nada is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Rayborn
O-DAY, Oh beloved ones, is a cherished mo­
ment for Me, so recently have I attained the
Victory and Freedom from human limita­
tions. It is such a great Joy to convey to you the
Feeling, We have in this really Great Achievement.
Think of it! precious ones, this Eternal Goal is Free­
dom forever from all the human has gone through
in the many, many centuries in which We have all
One can scarcely realize where We stood so few
years ago, when this good brother came into Our
home. How little did We dream then of what was
to follow. I say to you with all sincerity and earnest­
ness: Right now, you stand in the same position!
How little do you know, as We did then, what is just
before you in your Achievement. Will you not join
with Me in accepting the Limitless Power of your
“ Presence” to do this same thing for you? We did
not know, any more than you do to-day, what is be­
fore you. If one had told Us, even the day this good
lived.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 303
Brother arrived in Our home, all that would take
place, We probably would have said it was incredible
and impossible.
Our Example stands before you, beloved ones, in
Its Infinite Power to strengthen, encourage and allow
you to feel, this the same Great Victory is yours.
Unless you allow your human feelings, through your
attention and qualification, to have domination
within you longer, then you too will go forth as We
did. There is no mistake about it. Everything de­
pends upon the control of your feeling world. You
do have the Authority; and now, in the acknowledg­
ment of the Presence, you have the Power to achieve
your Victory.
In Our home, We thought Our training was a
private activity; but you are having almost identi­
cally the same Instruction as It is being given to you
to-day, through the intensified Power and Radiance
of the Great Ones. We did not know the Goal, any
more than you do to-day. Yet it was accomplished.
Through Our humble Effort, We try to bring you
greater Feeling of your Self-control and Mastery of
your feelings and keep it sustained. We endeavor to
give you the same feeling which We have now
through Our Achievement. Then, you will see how
Real, how very tangible is Our Assistance, which is
now being given you.
The Great Ones have said to Us, that in the En-
304 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
thusiasm and Joy of Our Attainment—and still hav­
ing a certain connection with the earth which I may
not explain to you just now—We are able to pour
a Radiance, a Strength into your feeling world, which
sometimes Those far Greater than Ourselves are not
permitted to do. There is some of this explanation
which I am not permitted to give you; but I can ex­
plain enough to give you the incentive, the feeling
and Power to stand firm—very firm in the acknowl­
edgment of your Presence. We can give you the full
feeling of your authority and ability right now, to
achieve any given goal upon which your attention
may be fixed.
Some of you have had a certain achievement in
your outer activities previous to this Understanding
of the Presence. I want to say to you: To-day, you
have a thousand times greater power to go forth
Victorious, than you had three years ago. Is not that
something to think about? To think, that in three
years you have gone ahead as it were, like a rocket!
Oh, there may not seem to be so great a change as yet
in the outer; but Oh beloved ones, if you saw from
the Inner Standpoint, how great your achievement
has been, your courage would be boundless.
Now notice, as the Messengers have said! In the
acknowledgment of your Presence is everything. I
mean all activity comes from Within out. In your
previous understanding, you thought you had to
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 305
gather all things from without In. That activity is
just the reverse of what it ought to be. All things
come from Within, out. Therefore, the greater part
of your achievement is accomplished, before you
become much aware of it in the outer activity.
It was so with My Mother, even when she thought
she was really passing on. One day she said to Us,
that She thought She was passing. When We thought
She had become unconscious—and She had to human
sense—
She went out from Her body with Saint Ger­
main’sAssistance; and was receiving Instruction from
Him as to what to do. He told her, to allow her body
to be placed in the tomb, because of the requirement
of the outer Law which still held sway at the time.
You see, in previous times during the achievement
of these things, the outer world was not permitted
to know the Inner Activity which was going on.
That outer condition still held sway at the time of
My Mother’s attainment. We grieved so deeply. Oh,
to-day I think how foolish it was; but We were serious,
We thought Her passing a real tragedy, and many
people do to-day. Dear hearts, We assure you, as the
Great Messengers have: there is no such thing as
death in the world, in the Universe. You simply
change your form for a finer one; but still there is
no death anywhere.
Oh, the relief, the release! Precious Saint Germain
made it possible, in the Cave of Symbols, for Our
306 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
precious Mother to come to Us in Her tangible Body,
lowering the rate of Her Ascended Body to make
it visible to Us. She held Us again in Her arms.
Oh! is there anything in the world so Victorious, so
Wonderful as that? We had thought so long through
Our previous training that death was real; although
My Mother knew years before that it was not, and
tried very delicately to assure Us that there was no
death. Yet, We did not comprehend it, even with all
that She put forth. To-day, We know it is not real,
for there is no death anywhere in the Universe. If
you can believe that We are truthful, then you will
accept this, and set yourselves free from any such
thought ever again.
Oh, the Joy which comes from that definite feel­
ing! Grief seems so real at the time. Yet, there is no
need of one tear in the whole world. Mankind should
understand, that to generate grief is but to destroy
one’s self! Those, who understand the “ I AM Pres­
ence” can call forth Its Great Joy. Your Higher
Mental Body already knows all these Great Truths.
Then do you not see, precious ones, this Law is not
something really new to you; for your Higher Mental
Body knows of It already? We but call your attention
to certain things to awaken a response within you;
and Our feeling, pouring into your feeling world,
releases into your outer use that which you already
know Within. Everyone in his feeling world knows
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 307
of this Truth; some have called forth fragments of
It. No one in the world, even in the time of Jesus,
ever brought forth such clear, simple, Majestic, All-
powerful Knowledge of the “ Mighty I AM Presence’’
as Saint Germain has brought forth. The Law of the
world at that time did not permit it. Jesus knew It
and so did the Disciple John; but others did not know
and comprehend. Jesus did not talk as freely with
the other disciples as He did with John the Beloved;
for He understood all that Jesus was going to do,
but the others did not.
So it is to-day. As the Light within each one ex­
pands sufficiently, then will the individual have
definitely the clear Understanding of various points
as they come along. In this endeavor to convey some
of these practical Truths to you, My Comprehension
will act within your feeling world; because My Feel­
ing is yours, while I am talking to you.
You never in all your Life heard tell of such happi­
ness as Pearl, Rex, Bob and I are having. Everything,
every movement, every new achievement—comes as
a wondrous, wondrous, enthusiastic Joy. We never
think about getting tired, or feeling limited in any
sense. We just go on, and on, and on, in the Wondrous
Expansion of the Light, pouring forth through those
Great Light Rays, which you see about the Presence.
We have been able to enter into Its Great Radiance,
and project these Rays, to do many wonderful things,
308 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
which such a short time ago, We could not have
imagined. This is why I say to you beloved ones: Do
not let your human intellect or feeling limit you one
moment longer. Every time a thought of limitation
of any kind comes to your attention, simply say to it:
“ Now you stop right there! You have no Power! you
are not going to take my Life any more, to feed any
human sense of limitation,” and it has to disappear.
Do you see?
Rex said this to you last night—I felt really proud
of Him. This is the point you need to remember,
dear hearts—to understand: everything you give
power to through your attention, to limit or harm
you, is your own Life doing it. Is not that an astound­
ing thing? Think! all through these centuries, We
have fed our very Life into things to harm and limit
us! Well, as our beloved Donald says: “ It’s Day is
Done” ! It is, if you will assert it! Do you not see this?
If you will assert your Power of the Presence—
and
mean it. To all those appearances, their day is done!
so far as their ability to limit you is concerned; be­
cause they cannot have your Life any longer by which
to do it.
Oh every day, more and more practical, clear and
simple is this Understanding becoming to you; as you
see how every movement and activity of your con­
sciousness during the day in the waking state, you
have been using these powers, but without under-
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 309
standing. Now that you do understand what their
activity has been doing within and about you, you
will not allow your Life to feed any more energy into
the things which limit or disturb you. Will you not
please hold this firm in your consciousness for con­
stant use? Because, Oh so quickly, even as quickly
as We did, you can be free.
Think of it, beloved ones, beginning tomorrow
with this Great Activity and release of the Cosmic
Light, there is being given the greatest Assistance
mankind has ever had, to free themselves from all
human limitations; and to enter right now, to-day,
into the steady—notice this—the steady, sure Activity
of the Ascension.
As I look into your hearts, while these Words are
being Hashed before this beloved Messenger, and I
see the ability within you, can you imagine My Feel­
ing and My Determination to quicken, awaken and
bring forth into action that, which I know and see
to be there within you? Now, We shall not give
any more quarter to the human accumulation. It has
no power to limit you any longer!
I congratulate our beloved Donald and Marjory
in the recent determined stand they have taken for
the Victory. If they will just hold steady to that, how
quickly they can be free!
In many of you precious ones, and in many of these
beloved young people, in whose Groups We have
310 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
been pouring forth Our Love and Radiation; We
see within your hearts the expansion of your Light-
far beyond that of which the outer is aware. Such
achievement is before you. With Purity in thought
and feeling maintained, and with refusal of accept­
ance of any discordant thing to act in your feeling
world; you would go forward like a rocket, as We
did, into this Great Achievement, the Ascension—
your Freedom—the Goal of all human pilgrimage
on earth.
To-day, Oh beloved ones, you stand within the
Gates of Freedom! I urge you to contemplate often
the picture of “ The Open Door.” This marvelous
picture that Mr. Brooks of New York brought forth
is really a very marvelous thing; because it does give
you the exact eye picture of your Presence, called
forth into action, holding back forever the doors of
Doubt and Fear. As you contemplate it with a firm
stand for your Freedom, saying to all appearances:
“ You have no Power” ! do you not see how it makes
the completed activity for your own Freedom? We all
rejoice in the sure, definite intensity with which you
are feeling and bringing into use, these Great Powers
which you have always had, and which flow into
your heart from the Presence. Each day, as all of this
becomes more practical, more Real to you, will find
that you can assert yourself. You can issue a decree
and find it very quickly fulfilled.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 311
Bob, Rex, Pearl and Myself so often, since We
arrived in Arabia, have discussed this so many, many
times. Hardly do We enter into a discussion, until
this point is brought forth. Our Great Gratitude to
Our Beloved Saint Germain for having taught Us in
the beginning, that the Great Law does not permit
the waste of this great Energy which flows through
from the Presence. We accepted that. We lived in
obedience to the Law. Do not, through anger, sex,
or any other condition, waste your Energy! Saint
Germain’s explanation to Us was Law, and We lived
and abided in It. Therefore, We entered very quickly
into the Great Perfection which the Presence is, and
Which every one can have.
Let Me remind you again to-day, precious ones,
that all mankind has made mistakes; and the great
Understanding of calling on the Law of Forgiveness
is a most wonderful, wonderful thing. You do not
realize the full importance of it, as We see this
Activity. We have watched certain individuals who
were very intense in calling on the Law of Forgive­
ness, for any mistakes which have ever been made.
You do not have to know what they are; but as We
see the effect of their calling in their feeling world-
well—it is just stupendous! I want you to know the
action of these various things which are within your
use. It is so easily done! You can have, Oh the great,
great Victory quickly!
312 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
Think of it! All through the centuries mankind
has looked upon Jesus as a Special Being, and
thought; well, no one else can attain the Ascension,
because He was a Special Being. Yet, He said in His
own Words: “All these things shall ye do and greater
things shall ye do.” Yet mankind has clothed Him
with a condition which they felt it was never possible
to reach. That was the great, great mistake of hu­
manity. He spoke the Truth to the whole living
world; and all things that He did, mankind shall do!
They have to do the same!
The Great Cosmic Light to-day comes into the
earth, and compels you now, whether you will or
not, to understand this. The Cosmic Light compels
the expansion of your own Light and you become
more sensitive. Do not begin to feel that you are
imposed upon. You have to be! Accept the sensitive­
ness to It, for you have the Power of the Presence
in Self-control. Then, you will govern any sensitive­
ness and it will be a Blessing untold to you.
If you give way, through your power of qualifica­
tion, and say you are becoming so sensitive you can­
not move in the outer world; then you are undoing
all the Perfection which can come to you and is there
for you. You see all these things are so practical. Yet
through human qualification, individuals often undo
the things that they might otherwise accomplish. You
are Master of your attention, your power of qualifica-
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 313
tion, and your vision. You may look upon two auto­
mobiles which come together on the road. You can
look upon such an activity without accepting it into
your world. Take your firm stand on all such things
in your cities, where you often see those occurrences.
Issue the decree: “ Mighty I AM Presence! Stand
guard over my feeling world! enable me to look upon
things without accepting their discord into my feel­
ing world.” This is what you can do.
That is what this good Brother does, and is the
reason why all the silly, untruthful reports made
about him, do not touch him. They cannot affect
him; but heaven help the person who does it, because
it has to go back to the individual who sends it out.
So it is with you. There cannot a thing enter your
world unless you accept it. We want to fix this in your
consciousness forever.
You know so much has been given us by Our
Great and Blessed Saint Germain! If you could see,
how He has poured out this Light like a Mighty
River, ever since the Messengers started out and
came to you, your heart would rejoice. It has just
poured like a river, and I do not wonder that you
do not hold clearly before you, some of the simpler
things which are acting in your world every day.
You have come to the point now where you must
become cognizant of the simple things, which you
thought possibly were not of importance; but it is
314 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
the little things achieved that make the Great Victory.
Notice! When you take your firm stand in the
Purity, Beauty and Perfection of your “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” the whole Power of the Universe rushes
to your assistance. When you contact things in the
outer world, watch out that you hold control over
your feelings. You can love just as greatly in calm
poise as in emotional excess or excitement. You do
not have to let your human enter in and take you
beyond the point of Self-control in your outer activ­
ity. By Self-control is how mankind can enter so quick­
ly into the great Victory to-day. It is such a great Joy,
precious ones, to talk to you; to endeavor to help you
feel clearly, firmly, definitely your Victory; for It is
as sure as Ours, if you will only take your firm stand
with this. You are coming rapidly to the point where
things, that you are not aware of, no longer act in your
feeling world. Now notice that! Heretofore, many
times feeling acted within your world of which you
were not aware, until you saw the outer manifestation
of it. Very shortly, there will be no excuse for that, be­
cause the moment a feeling starts you will be aware
of what is acting. Please accept this and see how
marvelous it is! Then, you will not be caught un­
awares by a feeling projected at you—immoral or de­
structive activities of any kind, which still remain in
the charged atmosphere of earth, will not be able
to reach you.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 315
Dear hearts, you have all had these experiences.
I question, if there is any one in the room who has
not had this experience: You go into the street car
and sit down next to someone whose atmosphere is
charged with unkind or vicious feeling and you
have to battle that repellent radiation. Most of the
time, you do not pay attention to it, but it begins
to act in your feeling world. Then after it gains a
momentum, you cannot get control of yourself; be­
cause of the outer accumulated pressure which rides
in. If the first moment such a condition begins to
act in your world, you sieze it and stop it, it does not
gain a momentum.
The same way with appearances: If you would
instantly say to any discordant or limiting appear­
ance: “ Oh no, you have no power” ! you would stop
the whole activity, and keep it from entering into
your world to affect you. As you gain a momentum,
you will find such things will give you one look, and
go in the other direction. You have no idea, precious
ones, how these limiting destructive forces, in the
control of this energy, know their Master. Just the
minute they see you know what is acting, they will
cease to bother you. I tell you these old discordant
things hold sway only because, previously you have
not understood how to be alert. These feelings begin
to act and revolve in your feeling world, before you
actually know what is occurring. Then many times
3 16 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
people have a battle on. It would not be a battle
at all, if they really knew, in the knowledge of the
Presence, how to charge the mind and body; how
to call the energy to sweep out all discord. Then re­
place it with the Ascended Masters’ Substance and
Self-dominion.
Precious ones, My Joy is boundless in having this
opportunity to convey My Feeling and My Words
into your world. When I say: “ My Strength,” I mean
the Strength of My “ Mighty I AM Presence” to as­
sist you with Its Knowledge and Strength, until you
hold your own Scepter of Dominion in your hand
so firmly, that no longer can anything disturb or
bother you.
I leave with you the Great Love, Light and Bless­
ing of Bob, Pearl, Rex, the Great Host of Ascended
Masters, and the Great Master, Whose Name is not
yet given to the outer world—the Teacher, the In­
structor in the use of the Great Light Rays in the
Retreat in Arabia. He said to Us recently, in certain
Instruction He was giving: “ My Children, When
I had looked upon the failure of mankind through so
many centuries, I could hardly have believed that so
much was possible for the children of earth, as has
been accomplished in two years.”
So beloved ones, you can see, as these Great Ones
do, Who have gone through so many centuries ob­
serving mankind’s inability to attain their Freedom;
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 317
then when you see humanity’s great Inner Ability
coming forth into action, it is very wonderful indeed.
The Infinite Light and Blessings of your “ Mighty
I AM Presence,” the Great Host of Ascended Masters,
and the Fulness of Their Active Presence and Power
within you, take full Command of your mind, body,
world, your heart, and especially your feeling world!
release such a Mighty Radiance that you clearly and
definitely feel your Certain Victory—NOW. Will
you not accept It, and be Free?
Our Love enfolds you forever in Its Transcendent
Light and Strength to your Complete Victory. I
thank you!
O U R B E L O V E D P E A R L ’ S
D I S C O U R S E
RATANA’s HOLLYWOOD GROUP
APRIL 6, 1937
T
HE Victory of the ages is here, beloved Stu­
dents of the Light with no uncertainty! The
Glory of the Light expanding from the be­
loved students of the “ I AM ” throughout America
is beautiful, transcendent, and the most encouraging
thing which mankind could witness.
It has been Our Privilege since the dictations be­
gan before your recent class, to go to various parts of
America and observe that which was going on from
the entire activity, among the Students of the Light
throughout your country. It has been most gratify­
ing, most encouraging and even the Divine Director
said: “ It is beautiful to behold” ! So you may know,
when a Great Being of His Authority speaks those
Words of encouragement, it is far more than My
Words convey to you.
For your encouragement and strength, I wish to
say that Saint Germain came to Me in our great need
in San Francisco, where I lived with an aunt and
where Bob and I had been very happy. Then Bob
went forth and I thought I was left quite alone. One
318
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 319
day, Saint Germain came, when My Heart was reach­
ing out so earnestly for Love and happiness, because
My dear old precious aunt did not know how to give
out Love and kindness. She did what she thought was
right; but you, who have so great a Love poured out
to you and are people who release so great a Love
yourselves, can hardly imagine the condition that
existed just at that time.
However, in My great call to God, one night I
suddenly awakened. I was just a little girl and there
My room was filled with a soft Golden Light. In the
concentrated part of the Light, I saw this Radiant
Presence and lo, it was Saint Germain. The curious
thing about it was, I was not frightened. I just felt
within Me that it was the answer to My call, and
surely it was.
Then He said: “ Child you shall grieve no more,
and You shall have the outpouring of the Love that
your heart craves from the most unexpected Source.
You are not to speak of My visit to you to any living
person! This will be a secret between just us. I will
train you, instruct you in Laws, the Understanding
of Laws that you do not imagine as yet exist. As you
gain in this Understanding, you will find your Being
filled with Love and happiness, and then a great
sense of Freedom. I will come at regular intervals
and teach you.”
Just at that time, I was not attending the public
320 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
schools, and He said: “ Now do not be disturbed
about that,” for I wanted so much to go to school. He
explained: “ I will take care of all that.” Then, He
would send—I wonder if you will quite understand
this, yet I feel I must tell you. The Messengers have
told you, how the Ascended Masters may project a
Form of Themselves. When Saint Germain could
not be present Himself, He projected this Form of
Himself, through which He taught Me many, many
wonderful things.
Then, one day, He came Himself, after Bob had
become associated with Mr. Rayborn. With that
peculiar twinkle in His Eye He said: “ Don’t you
think you should go and visit your brother”? I said:
“ I should love to very much, but I have not the means
to go.” “ Well,” He said, “ I think We can take care
of that.” So, I awakened one morning, a short time
after and there on My table was money to defray My
expenses. In the exuberance of My Joy, I was about
to rush forward and tell My aunt, when all of a
sudden I stopped right in the floor. Then, I remem­
bered that our contract was one of secrecy. So I
stopped to consider. Then, I knew through My feel­
ings, I was not to let her know.
So, I went forth to visit Bob as I thought, and
to My utter amazement found others who knew Saint
Germain. Can you feel the happiness which filled
My Being through that experience? Words could
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 321
not convey it. Then came the great revelation that
Nada’s mother had been trained by Him, during all
the years He had been training Me. I found She had
made the Ascension. The day came, when it seemed
to Me, My Joy had reached its limit. I went with
Rex, Nada and this good brother to Table Mountain.
I felt impelled to go away a short distance by My­
self and there before Me was this Great Majestic
Being, the God Tabor.
As He talked to Me, I realized—
just through a
Mighty Flash of feeling—that We were all being di­
rected by a Mighty Intelligence, clothed in a Dazzling
Form of Light. I want to tell you precious ones, that
Cyclopea, Arcturus, the God Meru, the God Tabor
and the God Himalaya are Beings, who, the first time
one sees Them, seem almost terrifying in Their
Majesty, Their Beauty, the Intensity of Their Light,
and the Perfection which They are. Yet, with all
that great and wondrous Power, as gentle as a mother
with her child whom she loves more than anything
in the world. When it is necessary, like a flash of
lightning Their Limitless Power can be released,
which is to perform a given Service.
To-night, I will try to convey to you, into your
feelings, the enormous Service which They render
mankind constantly and have throughout the cen­
turies; although mankind until now, has known al­
most nothing at all about It.
322 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
We love you precious ones, to whom Saint Ger­
main has brought so much, and whom We love more
than any words could ever tell in the world. Yet,
We must love Our own “ Mighty I AM Presence”
first. You know that is rather a difficult thing some­
times, when one has done so much for you. Only if
you were in My position, at the time He came to
Me and began My training, could you possibly know
what My feeling is to-night; as I endeavor to describe
briefly something of My experience.
I found in the Rayborn home those kindred ones
already prepared. Yet, He had not permitted Me
to say a word to Bob. Then, I sent forth a Mighty
Call to Saint Germain and I said: “ Oh isn’t it pos­
sible for Bob to have this Understanding, so We can
go forth together”? That, which occurred shortly
afterwards proved, My call was answered. Precious
ones, as in these experiences which were Ours, do
you not see that every one of your calls must be
answered also?
It cannot fail, if you will follow what He tells
you—give your Love and Adoration to your Presence
first! Then, if at any time you feel a little inability,
so far as your outer requirements are concerned, call
to some One of the Ascended Masters. They will al­
ways answer. It is the Law of Their Being and the
Law of yours that every call for Light, Freedom and
Understanding must be answered. If you are not
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 323
aware of it immediately, please do not have a feeling
that your call has not been answered. It always is!
That is why to-night, and every day during the past
twenty or more days, there has been pouring into
your feeling world, the Glory of Those Who have
been in your midst.
Try to feel as I am sure you are, more and more
each day, the Great Reality of these Great Ascended
Beings. They are so Real! One day you shall know
it, but until you do, will you not feel that Our Ex­
perience is Real; and that We bring It to you for
your strength and encouragement; that you may feel
closer, closer and closer to Us, until all human doubts
and questionings are forever dissolved and disappear
from your world?
May I ask you to silence that human viciousness
wherever you go and meet vain intellects which try
to criticize these books or that which goes forth in
the magazine; because they are written in simple
language? That is all done for a purpose, so man­
kind may not be confused by involved terminology
in any of the expressions used. The Ascended Masters
could quite readily use such technical terminology,
that you could not understand a word of it; but that is
not the purpose of This Work.
The purpose of this Light of the “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” as the Tall Master from Venus said in
the beginning, is that It must come forth in simple
324 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
language which mankind can understand and be free
from the confusion of oriental or technical termi­
nology. Will you spread this Great Truth everywhere?
People having vain intellects try to complain. Think
of it! Who in the world of human activity is author­
ity? The human mind has concocted all kinds of
things for itself and has created the most outlandish
words for scientific explanation; when a word of four
or five letters would have carried its meaning much
more efficiently. Wordiness and involved terminology
is vanity of the intellect! Those precious ones do not
know that; but such accumulated activity which has
become dominant within them, causes them to feel
that in order to maintain authority, they must use so-
called technical terminology.
Think of it, precious ones, those Great Beings,
Who have such Infinite Wisdom, always use simple
language, which even a child can understand! This
is the need of humanity to-day; because the world
through the old occult methods of former schools,
metaphysics of every description, religion and science
have tried to clothe the Infinite, Wondrous, Beauti­
ful Truth with technical terminology and it has but
clouded the understanding of mankind. You to-day,
are fortunate enough to have come within the Radi­
ance of Saint Germain and the simple Teaching
which He has given forth. Yet, It is so Majestic and
All-powerful in Its action that It should silence every
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 325
intellect which would try to find fault with It. So, if
you will, you may render a great service by putting
this before the people who complain, that they think
it should be in a more scientific language.
You see, precious ones, those who really know, are
like a child in Their gentleness to mankind; for the
Great Master, Jesus, said with such Authority: “ Ex­
cept as ye become as little children ye cannot enter
the Kingdom.” Do you know just what that means
to you to-day? It is just this. It means in humbleness,
in kindness, gentleness and gratitude is your Door­
way into the Kingdom of Heaven which is the
“ Mighty I AM .” It fills the earth with Its Happiness,
Beauty and Perfection, which is not found in the
creations of mankind. All, who enter into this Great
Truth know quickly, that the greatest happiness
which they have ever known, through human achieve­
ment or human contact, was but a fragment; in
comparison to the great flood of Joy and Happiness
which comes from an Ascended Being or from your
Presence, and We found that too.
When beloved Bob was brought by Saint Germain
to the Cave of Symbols and His first experience be­
gan, it was the most beautiful thing, precious ones,
that anyone ever witnessed. The eagerness, the joy,
yet without impatience, with which He entered into
the Instruction Saint Germain offered, and His
speed of attainment has exceeded anything any of
326 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
Us has accomplished; because of His great joyous
acceptance of everything, which Saint Germain asked
Him to do.
So it is with you to-day. Just maintain the great
humbleness in the human, kindliness, gentleness and
yet firmness, when it is necessary, in meeting human
creations. You must not forget that. When you are
meeting destructive forces, you must be dynamic and
firm! Otherwise it will sweep you under! It is a
dominating force; but when you understand your
Presence and then are firm, in refusing to give power
to appearances of any kind; then in Its Great Calm­
ness, you release from your Presence, at your call,
abundance of all you require to govern you and your
world, and give you the Infinite Protection of your
Presence.
We have endeavored to convey to you the Truth
from various angles, and show you that you do have
Real Dominion; for you have Invincible Protection,
in the Tube of Light about you from your Presence.
It is only when you give power and attention to some­
thing outside of your Presence, or listen to foolish
gossip; that you open—shall we call it—a tiny crack,
in the door of your world. If that is kept up, the
door is pushed open more and more, until finally
there comes a great rush of destructive force into your
world and an accident, an operation or something of
that kind occurs.
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 327
Precious ones, Oh that you might understand to­
night your Great Presence in Its Fulness; and that
discord in the feeling is the cause of everything which
besets your human form; either disease so-called or
that which requires, as mankind thinks to-day, some­
thing to be removed from your body to give you
Freedom. Because of the belief of mankind, it does
sometimes seem to be necessary; but when you think
of it in comparison with your Presence, well it is not
really necessary, is it? When you know your Presence
enough, precious ones, you will never need any out­
side assistance of any kind. Neither will you require
the surgeon’s knife to remove some part of you, which
seems to be obstructing the way.
Oh it is so wonderful! Yet do not misunderstand
Me. For those of mankind, who know not this Great
Truth, assistance is required of nearly all which the
doctors or surgeons can give—except serums.
To-day, in the great expansion of this Light, be­
loved ones, you are the most fortunate of beings,
for I repeat to you again: The expansion of the Light
within your heart and your world is the infinite posi­
tive proof of your achievement during these many
months, since the Messengers have come to you. Do
you think you love them? So do We! Remember how
Nada, Rex, Bob, Mr. Rayborn and Myself love them.
Can you imagine Our gratitude for this blessed one’s
coming into Our midst and opening the door for
328 ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES
Saint Germain to come and render the Service He
did for Us? Can you? You do feel, I know you do,
how greatly We love him and his precious ones. How
We long to pick up these two blessed ones, Don and
Marjory, and carry them away with Us. There are
others of the young folks for whom We would love
to do that too. If they will give the full power of
their attention in joyous, harmonious determination
to the Great Source of Life, their “ Mighty I AM
Presence,” who knows how quickly that might be.
Oh We would so love to just take away from you—
instantly—everything within your feeling or mental
world, which longer deprives you of the Great Per­
fection which your Presence is and holds for you. It
is everything! There is not anything else! These
things in the outer world, to which you have given
such power and thought were so necessary, are some­
times but a barrier to your Great Freedom.
Not that everything in the outer world, which is
of use should not be all beautiful and wonderful;
but it is according to the way you qualify it, is it
not? You see your qualification is operating all the
time. If you requalify the energy from the Presence
with something which harms you, then you are at
fault, are you not? This is why We keep bringing
you back again, again and again to these simple
fundamentals which, once you grasp them, will send
you forth like a rocket into your Complete Freedom.
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 329
With Ourselves and the condition which the
Great Law provided, We were so quickly freed from,
not only the contact, but the disturbances of the
outer world. Then with Saint Germain, We saw how
the great, great harmony in Our home had meant
so much to Our progress. Our home was Our world,
precious ones! Your home is just your world! It is
not a building in which you may be dwelling, but
your home is really your world! When you have
come to acknowledge your Presence, you have entered
into your Real Home. As you steadily and surely
give attention to your Presence, It purifies, beauti­
fies and perfects your home, which is your feeling
world. Then, outer manifestation of every descrip­
tion must come into the harmony, which is within
your feeling world. Do you not see, that no great
harm could come into your world, if your own feel­
ing world were cleansed and purified?
Beloved ones, whenever you call the Power of the
Presence forth into action, be sure that you have
harmonized yourself first. Call on the Law of Forgive­
ness for any mistakes and place yourself in the proper
position, for the energy from your Presence to come
forth, untouched by your power of qualification; to
render you the Perfect Service for which you are
asking. Do you not see, beloved ones, that if you call
your Presence forth with dynamic energy to-day for
a given purpose, and to-morrow you become violently
330 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
angry or critical of a person, place, condition or thing,
the energy which you have already called forth is
compelled to take on the quality with which you
charged it? I cannot see how any one can fail to under­
stand this simple Law. Anyone can, with the determi­
nation of his “ Mighty I AM Presence,” allow the
Presence to hold Its Dominion in his world through
himself.
To-night, as the Blessed Ones are pouring forth
Their Mighty Radiance to you, join Me, Oh beloved
ones, in the full acceptance of Their Eternal Freedom
and All-powerful Activity within you, your world
and your activity. As you do that, you have no idea
how powerfully it will act. You are the decreer of
your world. You are either receptive or repulsive to
the Perfection of this Great Energy. If you are dis­
cordant, you are repulsive; if you are harmonious,
you are receptive to the Great Powers of your Pres­
ence. Then, Its Powers go forth unchallenged, un­
qualified, and carry Its Perfection into you and your
world where nothing unlike Itself can possibly exist.
You know the old saying, that two hearts beat as
one? To-night, there are many hearts beating as one.
We are all beating as one heart in this room. Oh pre­
cious ones, it is the most magnificent thing on the
face of the earth, to find those so loyal to the Light,
whose attention is so wonderful, that it beats as one
heart—the Heart of the “ Mighty I AM Presence” ;
ASCENDED M A ST ER DISCOURSES 331
the Heart of Divine Order and Perfection. Oh, I re­
joice with you so tremendously as do the Others pres­
ent, that you have become able to still yourselves
enough to allow this Great Work to be done; this
Great Assistance to be given to you.
Many times, We four Children just burst into a
song of praise, for the Light which is coming into
humanity. We look at Our Blessed Saint Germain,
sometimes almost in awe, at the Majesty and Power
of His Achievement for mankind. Then, He turns
and looks at Us, and with that curious twinkle in
the eye says: “ Children, stop that nonsense” ! It is
very wonderful to enter into such Happiness which
is Ours. You can, no question about it! Remember,
We are standing by, until your achievement, until
your Victory, provided you do not chase Us off.
Oh, We know so well what mankind goes through
in the experience of human creation. To-day, We
stand wholly free from it and the two worlds meet—
the human and the Divine. May I ask you again
to-night, how many of you precious earnest students
have thought where and what that dividing line is?
The Messenger, I think, has intimated it to you
several times.
Do you know that dividing line is your Higher
Mental Body? There is where the human ceases and
you become free. Feel, just for a few moments, the
full Power of your Presence acting through your
332 ASCENDED M A S T E R DISCOURSES
Higher Mental Body. It knows your every require­
ment. Then just feel—decree silence; while I assist
you, that now your complete Victory and Freedom is
forever sustained; remembering always that your
determination is the outer activity of the Inner Will
of the “ Mighty I AM Presence.”
Then your determination becomes the dominant
Power of your Presence, to fill your world with Its
Perfection. So, as you accept this into your feeling
world, We decree that it goes into Action Invincible,
to produce those results for you. Now remember, the
Life, the Intelligence, which enables you to accept
this fully, is from your Presence. Do you not see, as
you come to more fully understand it, that all activity
is from your Presence? If left in Its complete Free­
dom, It would produce quickly the full Perfection,
which It is.
Now call your Presence to take full command!
Refuse, precious ones, any longer to allow any outer
appearance to make you feel discordant! Refuse to
listen to any discordant gossip of any kind! because
that is the thing, if you listen to it, which in a mo­
ment finds entrance in your world and begins to
whirl and disturb you. This is why the Messengers
and We keep pouring into you this Mighty Truth of
the Law which, if entered into, will produce your
Freedom from destruction.
Of course, We never feel disappointed. Yet We
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 333
want so much to give Assistance. For instance, for
someone’s voice or for their health; but if that one
allows the human to rush in or cause him to feel a
lack of energy and strength, well We just try to re­
double the Radiance, so as to dissolve the acceptance
of the appearance of lack, energy, strength or help.
What you can do, precious ones, is to stand firm and
with determination, refuse acceptance of anything
you do not want.
Now remember, beloved ones, in all these dicta­
tions that are given to you, We are talking heart to
heart. We are not talking for the criticism of some
college professor. We are talking in simple lan­
guage that your heart may feel this Sincerity, this
Loyalty, this Truth. This is how you receive the
greatest Power and Assistance which is possible to
be given in the Great Stream of Energy from your
Presence.
When you sit down around your table at dinner
in the evening, do you stop to realize whether you
are discussing things you speak of in collegiate tech­
nical terms or not? Do not think this sounds critical;
but in some of the schools We have visited, there
was not any real help being taught. You know We
had a very wonderful school. Now, We have a still
more wonderful one. Some of the schools in which
there is such great dignity and such great assurance
that every word must be just so, the blessed students
334 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
most of the time are being deprived of the Freedom
which is theirs. They are not gaining the feeling
of what their instruction should convey. Think! the
feeling is the important thing; for unless the feeling
is improved by the language, it has become a dead
language, so to speak.
This is why I am giving you this explanation to­
night, for those, who have been unfortunate enough
to criticize the expressions of the Ascended Masters,
will do very well not to do it again. We are not con­
cerned about the intellectual opinions of Our Lan­
guage; but We are putting this Truth forth in Words,
that carry Our Feeling of your Victory and Freedom
into your world. Is that not the most important
thing which mankind requires to-day?
Even in Our Experience in the Retreat in Arabia,
We have been given such marvelous use of the Light
Rays, in their various colors and their Mighty Ac­
tivities. Already, We have been able to use them in
an amazing manner, for the blessing of mankind and
the earth. Oh, how We have been able to stop de­
structive activities by these Rays—We little Children!
We call Ourselves “ little children” yet.
Do you not see, precious ones, how there is noth­
ing in the world that can limit you? Even this good
brother’s experiences on the side of Mount Shasta,
in the assistance of the Ascension is positive proof.
Anyone, who disbelieves it, is foolish indeed; but
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 335
there stands the Living Proof to all mankind, if they
can accept it. Mankind is not limited to-day in a single
thing that individuals do, except through their own
human concepts, through their feeling world.
As this good brother has told you many times, he
had no idea what was to be done. Yet, a Mighty
Service was rendered through his Higher Mental
Body, the “ Mighty I AM Presence.” Now that
Blessed One has returned to serve him, as long as he
wishes to serve humanity in the outer form. No earn­
est effort is ever lost. Your motive within you is the
determining factor in your Life. If your motive is
wrong, it will bring unhappiness and failure. If it
is pure and good, it will lift you to the Height of
Eternal Freedom. Then go forth in the Glory of
your “ Mighty I AM Presence” and have the Freedom
which It brings.
Our Love in Its Eternal Purity and Perfection en­
folds each one of you like a Mighty Garment of Light.
With your permission, We shall qualify it to be
eternally sustained and active within and about you;
to produce much more quickly your Freedom and
Perfection from all limitations of your own creations
or otherwise; that you may quickly enter into the
full conviction of your “ Mighty I AM Presence” ; to
be the Governing Factor, the Governing Intelligence
of your world.
Stop forever giving power to appearances and con-
336 ASCENDED M A S T E R DISCOURSES
ditions which are less than the Perfection of the
Presence! Do not feed your Life energy into appear­
ances, to harm and limit you. Do not! I plead with
you, beloved ones! It is only through your attention,
that you feed your Life energy to limit, disturb and
cause you to fail. So take your stand, if you have not
already, in the great Firmness of your Presence! Re­
fuse any longer to give any person, place, condition
or thing which is destructive any power whatsoever—
any acceptance or power! Those limitations came of
your own creation and they have no power, except
what your Life has fed into them.
Therefore, understand this simple explanation,
Oh Children of the Light! Go forth from to-night in
your Mighty Victory, free from the substance which
has been qualified by human creation. Go forth, I
say, in the Power of your “ Mighty I AM Presence”—
the Glorious Victor, the Glorious Commanding
Presence over all human things. The Assistance of
the Great Divine Director, before whom Universes
bow, has been offered and given you. Should you ask
for any greater Assistance, in all the world of God’s
creation than That? It is offered to you as a Glad
Free Gift of Love—from His Heart to your heart,
through the Power of Divine Love and Its Eternal
Mighty sustaining power.
We love, We bless, We thank and praise you into
your immediate Victory, into your full complete Con-
ASCENDED M A STER DISCOURSES 337
sciousness of your Freedom and the Power of the
Presence to stand guard over you. Call the Violet
Consuming Flame into action, to prevent anything
coming forth of your human creation, from ever
causing you accident or disturbance of any kind.
Keep calling your Presence forth, to rush Its Mighty
Violet Consuming Flame, from your feet up. At
night, when you sleep, call the Presence to pass It
through the mattress of your beds and keep this sus­
tained Activity going through you. Then see and
feel the peace and rest into which you will enter.
I love you, I love you, I love you, Oh precious
ones, Beloved Children of the Light; I love you, We
all love you—forever!
FINIS
T H E SA IN T GERM AIN SERIES
SA IN T GERM AIN PRESS
Post Office Box 1133 Chicago, Illinois
UNVEILED MYSTERIES, Volume I
By Godfre R ay King
Containing the first group of the author’s experiences.
Price $2.50 Postpaid$2.75
TH E MAGIC PRESENCE, Volume II
By Godfre Ray King
Containing the second group of the author’s experiences.
Price $2.75 Postpaid$3.00
TH E “I AM” DISCOURSES, Volume III
By T he Ascended Master, Saint Germain
Containing thirty-three discourses explaining the Ascended
Masters’ Application of the “I AM,” with three color plates.
Price $2.75 Postpaid$3.00
TH E “I AM ” ADORATIONS AND AFFIRMATIONS,
Volume V
By Chanera
A selection of powerful adorations and affirmations of the
“Mighty I AM Presence.”
Price $1.00 Postpaid$1.20
"I AM” DECREE BOOKLET
By Chanera
A paper bound booklet, containing a collection of “I AM”
Decrees which everyone can use to bring Freedom to the
individual, America and the world. Size 51,4 x 8
Price fi.oo Postpaid$i.io
A PICTURE OF “TH E MAGICPRESENCE”
A color chart of“The Magic Presence” beautifully litho­
graphed, suitable for framing, meditation, and class instruc­
tion. Size 12 x 20
Price $1.00 Postpaid$1.20
339
340 ASCENDED M A ST E R DISCOURSES
A PICTURE OF “TH E MAGIC PRESENCE”
Larger size for Group Leaders, etc., on heavy linen.
Size 30 x 48
Price $15.00 Mailing Charges Included
A PICTURE OF TH E M ASTER, JESUS
A hand colored steel engraving of an etching by Charles
Sindelar, to whom Jesus had personally appeared. It is an
exact likeness of Him as He stood in consultation with
Saint Germain and the Tall Master from Venus at the Re­
treat in the Royal Teton, New Year’s Eve of 1935.
Price $2.00 (size 12 x 16) Postpaid $2.25
Price $ .50 (size 5 x 7) Postpaid $ .65
A NEW PICTURE OF TH E ASCENDED MASTER,
SAINT GERMAIN
A hand colored steel engraving of an etching by Charles
Sindelar. An exact likeness, as he has appeared on many
occasions in the Retreat. A companion piece to that of
Jesus and meant for the students’ meditation.
Price $2.00 (size 12 x 16) Postpaid $2.25
Price $ .50 (size 5 x 7 ) Postpaid $ .65
