{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__anonymous___mentalphysics_treatise_one_the_art_of_true_living.pdf","mytitle":"Mentalphysics Treatise One The Art Of True Living","mylang":"de"}
. 7Ae A11t
..
EDWIN J. DINGLE, F.R.G.S.
Founder of the Science of Mentalphysics
Internationally-Known Psychologist, Author
and Philosopher
President and Preceptor Emeritus
The Institute of Mentalphysics
Treatise No. 1
by
Edwin J. Dingle, E R. G. S.
(Founder of The Science of Mentalphysk1l
(Copyright, 1937, The Institute of Mentalphysics)
•
A STRANGE MESSAGE FROM A LAND WHERE
THE ART HAS NOT BEEN FORGOTTEN
• I COME TO YOU today with a. message that should he instrumental in
tearing out by the roots all of evi.l, and lack, and disappointment in our life,
and replacing it with happiness, comfort, plenty and success. From a far
land I bring word that our conception of the shortness of life, and the neces- ·
sity of sickness, and the inevitability of poverty and want IS ALL A
MISTAKE. .
I bring word that we have been deceived in these matters, or have de-
ceived ourselves, and have been suffering UNNECESSARILY,. when OLD
AGE .CAN BE POSTPONED FOR YEARS, SICKNESS MADE A RARE
AND BRIEF AFFAIR, ELIMINATED ALTOGETHER IN MANY CASES,
and that there is, available tb us, health in abundance, happiness supreme,
mental power that is simply astonishing, and MONEY FAR BEYOND OUR
REASONABLE HOPES. I bring word that there is within you a mighty
power that can take you ten times as far in the ai:;complishment of your hopes
and ambitions as you have ever before gone. And I bring you an under-.
standing of that power, and method~ for USING it, that are little known in
our Western world, and that have been HIDDEN away, except to a chosen
few, for ages. · .
That is an astounding declaration, I know. Especially when I say th:it
these things can happen here aljld now, in the year in which we are living,
not in some dim and distant future, or in the next life. Especially when I
say that they can happen to YOU, easily and naturally, as well as quickly.
I do not ask you to accept this staggering declaration now. I ask only that
you keep an open mi'nd until it is proved to you, that you give me enough
of your time to present that proof.
.4. Three Thowand Year Old Legacy For You
• I take no credit, personally, for discovering these truths. I was as amazed
as you will be when they were first disclosed to me. I am merely the instru-
ment through which they are passed along from far wiser and better men
than I am-men whom I believe to be the wisest on earth today- the latest
of a three-thousand-year-old UNBROKEN CHAIN OF WISE MEN.
When I say, therefore, that for three thousand years this message has been
on its way to you, relayed from generation to generation, carefully guarded
and cherished in the hands of a select few, refined and simplified and added
to by the great spirits of their time, you will, I am sure, give it serious con-
sideration. For it is all true, as you may see later on; and no sensible man
or woman could refuse to investigate such priceless knowledge when it is
offered.
Methods That Have Tremendous Effect
• I am sure that you, like all intelligent people, appreciate that the greatest
truths of life have not hitherto been printed-or if printed, have not been
completely understood or realized. Mere intellectual understanding is noth-
ing-the Wise Men have discovered that truth makes men free only when it
is FELT to the- very depths of the soul, made a MAINSPRING of our every
thought and action. Then, as many great men have demonstrated, it gives
men power undreamed of, the might to shake the world. Then, as stories of
apparent miracles in many parts of the world confirm, it gives the energy to
accomplish the seemingly impossible. My great mission in life is to disclose
to·you methods and practices these wise men used irfESCAPING from mere
intellectual grasp of truth, in making truth a part of their VERY BEING, its
YAST POWER theirs to do with as they will.
Simple Ways That Have Been Proved Through the Ages
II That tremendous power within us has b'een· dimly realized, of course, in
our Western world. But our writers and our psychologists have had only a
faint idea of how to USE THIS GREAT POWER, how to call upon it when
and where we will. Usually, their methods do not work, except in rare cases.
YET FOR TIIREE THOUSAND YEARS COMPARATIVELY SIMPLE
METHODS FOR USING ALL THIS POWER HAVE BEEN KNOWN AND
USED BY 'f.HE WISE MEN OF THE EAST. From generation to generation
the methods have been improved upon and simplified, until now they can be
used with TREMENDOUS EFFECT by almost any ordinarily intelligent
person. They can be used by you, as I expect to prove to you, in meeting
your personal problems, in building the superior mind and ability and power
necessary to carry out your ambitions, to fulfill your desires, and in giving
you greater strength to fight off sickness and old age.
Wishes Mnde To Come True
• Like all honest people, you no doubt feel that honesty should always be
rewarded, that the good things of life should not he only for the selfish. I
say to. you that if you get in tune with the great power within you, honesty is
RICHLY AND QUICKLY REWARDED, and that THE GOOD THINGS OF
LIFE PILE THEMSELVES UPON THE UNSELFISH.
Like all generous peopk, you want the ability to help your loved ones, to
bring their hopes, as well as your own, to fruition. I say to you that the
power to do this is al.reaJr within you, ready to be called upon and used, and
-2-
that the methods of these wise men WILL SHOW YOU HOW TO USE THAT
POWER IN SEEKING THE FULFILLMENT OF SUCH A NOBLE AND
UNSELFISH PURPOSE.
Like all sincere people you are probably mystified by the seeming cruelty
of sickness and poverty and old age all around you. I declare to you that
all these are unnecessary, not intended by a kind Creator, brought on, prin·
cipally, by too much reliance on ourselves and too little up.on the great power
within us-and that the methods developed by these wise men are effective
in relieving sickness, maintaining youth through many years, and eliminating
poverty altogether. ·
Be Master of Your Own Destiny
• Like all who are not craven slaves, you want to he free of bosses, and debts,
and worries---<:aptain of your own ship, master of your own fate, free to
carry out your plans, and victorious in accomplishing them. I .say to you
that SUCH IS YOUR DESTINY-and the only one who can prevent it is
yourself.
Finally, I am sure, you do not want to be hindered in these bigh endeavors,
by any handicap whatever-whether real or imaginary, wh~ther of the mind
or the body, whether sickness or old age, lack of money or lack of youth. I
declare to you that, instead of being limited by a one-man-power mind, you
have at your disposal the mind-power of the ages-a thousand man power or
mor~which can brush aside such petty handicaps as if they were nothing.
Long-Hidden Practices of The Wise Men
• Do these statements seem to stagger you? I confess that they did me
when they were first made to me. But since then, I have learned even more
astounding truths about myself and you. I don't ask you to accept them
now, any more than I did until they were proved to me. I ask only that you
give me an opportunity to present such proof, only that you accept these
amazing facts when they are proved in your own life, by your own greater
achievements, yo.ur own more glorious health, your own richer possessions,
and the happy .and abundant life in all fields that this way of life can bring.
These were the first astounding truths that were passed on to me by one
of the latest in that long chain of wise men. We have, within us, not merely
the mind and soul power of a thousand men, but the great wisdom and power
of God Himself-or the Creator, or the Supreme Intelligence, or whatever
name you wish to call Him. Of <;iOUrse, most religions recognize this--we
have no quarrel with any religious belief, but honor and respect all sincere
faiths. BUT THE STAGGERING REVELATION MADE TO ME BY MY
MASTER IN THE ORIENT WAS HOW TO USE THIS VAST POWER
IN OUR DAILY AFFAIRS, TO HELP BRING ABOUT OUR PLANS,
FULFILL OUR PRAYERS-ON EARTH, HERE AND NOW.
Immense Powers Never Before Realized .
• This mighty Niagara of Str~ngth has been with us since time immemorial.
Three thousand years ago wise men had discovered it and learned meth1
ods
for using it. Why is it, you wonder, that we have gotten so far away from it,
that we are blind to our own greatest heritage, that our scientists and .
psychologists don't know more about it and cannot instruct every man in
its use?
It is because they are .afraid to acknowledge man's kinship with the
-3-
Supreme Creator, because they try to explain things materialistically, instead
of spiritually, because they rely upon earthly knowledge and hesitate to accept
anything that cannot be understood in the light of that knowledge. But even
they stand in i:rlwe before some of their more recent discoveries, and are begin·
ning to perceive that the wise men of old were more nearly right than had
been supposed. Even they are pro'bing into what they call the subconscious
and superconscious mind, and perceiving something of its immense powers.
Unbelievable Things A.ccompliahed
11 Before long, P!!rhaps, they will acknowledge that tche wise men were correct,
and that this power is the wisdom of the Supreme Creator-God Himself in
each and every one of us. Before long, too, they may he able to explain why
the methods develotJed by these wise men are so tremendously effective in
utilizing that power within us. Right now, no one knows exactly why these
methods work. We only know that they do, and that in the East are men
who accomplish almost unbelievable things through them-things which our
materialistic scientists have never been able to duplicate. You no doubt have
read a;bout the masters of the Far East and their wonderful powers.
The Easy Way of True Geniw
• Do you think a mere man wrote the hest work of Shakespeare, or the
sublime music of Beethoven? About all either of therl!. did, after learning to
get in touch wit~ the Divine Source within them, was to listen to the poetry
or music of that INNER VOICE and write down what they heard. How can
scientists explain the Inner Voice of Mozart? Frequently, while composing,
if he dropped a sheet of music, he found it ~asier to write another than to pick
the first one up-so rapi.dly was his Inner V<tice pouring forth the melodies
of Heaven. ·
That Inner Voice is in all of us.. If you will but learn to listen to it, you'
too can pour forth an avalanche of mighty words in your chosen field of
effort. But the more we rely upon materialistic knowledge, the deafer we
become to that Inner Voice. Like Adain and Eve, we ar~ "banished from
Paradise" ·because we ·are filled with the fruit of the Tree of Materialistic
Science.
Make Your Ourn. Heaven
• But pl.ease understand me. Our scientific knowledge is not an evil in itself.
The fault lies with ourselves alone. We become blown up with conceit in this
new-found information, think we know i! all, we rely upon material fact,a
alone for our guidance, when such knowledge is INCOMPLETE, and is not
likely to be complete for another ten thousand years.
This conceit, this reliance upon UNRIPE materialistic knowledge, has
become an almost universal habit with ·us. We have, most of us, forgotten
how to rely instead upon the Great Power within. We have forgotten how
to use ·this power, we no longer can hear the Inner Voice, WHICH CAN
MAKE OUR HOMES HAPPY AS THE GARDEN OF EDEN, WHICH
CAN MAKE US VERITABLE GODS . AMONG MEN-IRRESISTIBLE,
UNCONQUERABLE, VICTORIOUS IN ALL OUR ENDEAVORS, MAG-
NIFICENT IN OUR STRENGTH, SUBLIME IN OUR WISDOM.
Hidden Wisdom From a Land of ,Miracles
• But down tlirough the ages, uncontaminated by our materialistic knowledge,
in a far country where such knowledge couldn't reach, the ANCIENT WIS-
--4-
•
DOM has been kept alive. How thankful we may be that, ~heltered behind
the highest mounta.ins in the world, this sacred heritage has been preserved
for us-a higher understanding of the Creative Power within us, and the
methods wise men have discovered for making the most of that power in our
da.ily lives· and our daily affairs?
The few travelers who have visited it call it the land of miracles-as indeed
it is-for men there can do things that cannot° be seen anywhere else in the
world. Century after century, a carefully chosen group of wise men have
here passed on, from generation to generation, carefolly guarded secrets that
were held too precious for the multitude, too potent to be permitted to fall
into the hands of the unworthy. I have witnessed many of their powers made
manifest, and I want to prove them to you.
Revealed Only To a Chosen FetiD
• These wise men are the latest of a long, unbroken chain of wise men extend·
ing bacl( certainly for three thousand years, a thousanq years before the
Christian era, and no one knows how many thousand years before that. To
this day, these sages preserve the use of Sanskrit, the earliest known language,
from which some scholars believe most of the white men's languages sprang.
Our great museums, various temples of the East, contain manuscripts in this
remote tongue, the wisdom carefully guarded in parable and poetry.
A. Message From the Last Home of the Unknown
• In the heart of ageless Asia, in the strange land of Tibet, the torch of this
wisdom still burns, carefully tended by a chosen few. Into this forbidden
place of mystery, this last home of the unknown, this "roof of the world" as
it is called, foreigners are not allowed to enter, except in rare cases and under
special conditions. It is still the least known country of the world, brooding
silently over the riddles of the ages, carefully guarding itself from the pollu·
lion of a materialistic age.
And here one of the latest of the age-old chain of wise men became my
teacher. My profession of geographer and map-maker brought .me to the
country. Through a ·weird combination of circumstances, I was fortunate
enough to enter, and to sit as a student at the feet of this remarkable man.
What I learned there· I wish to disclose to you, for I believe THE TIME HAS
COME FOR THE TRUTH TO SET MEN FREE.
Inconceivable Immensity of Mind
• The effect of this knowledge upon a person is indescribable. No one could
without experience conceive of the power it gives, the immensity of mind, the
control over yourself and over others, the mastery and ability it provides in
all fields of endeavor. .
Perhaps a certain experience of a friend of mine will give you a partial
idea. When a ·youth, my friend was fond of swimming. He had never swum
more than a half-mile in his life, however, when one day he decided to attempt
a five-mile swim. As he passed the first half-mile, he began 'to lose his wind.
Soon his heart started pounding, he was gasping for every breath, and his
face Lccamc a mask of agoni:.:ed effort. Presently, "'.hen he thought he
simply had lo give up, he suddenly drew a deep breath, then another and
another, and his troubles were over. To him it seemed a miracle. He had
never before realized what "second wirid" was. He almost shouted for joy
in his new-found strength. He swam on and on, going ten times as far as he
-5-
had ever gone before, and .finished the five·miles tired of muscle, but with
lungs breathing easily and quietly, seemingly ready for .five more miles.
A Power That Can Take You Ten Times As Far
• He had never known that power was within him. Yet every long distance
runner, every long distance swimmer, is familiar with the miracle.of second
wind. In every long race, the participants are in agony, tempted to give up,
before it comes. My friend went through ·
the same experience time after time,
after his first attempt. Always he went through the breathless stage, and
always the miracle came to solve his problem. He learned, as other long
distance athletes do, that "second wind" inevitably comes, that there is a vast
lung power in reserve that other people know nothing about, a power that
can take them TEN TIMES AS FAR as most people can go.
Mysteries No Man Can Explain
• And so it is with you. There is a reserve of power within you that can take
you ten times as far as you ever thought you could go-in all your activities,
l.n all your efforts, in all your desires, and lead you into the PARADISE that
you have lost. You.may be in agony right now, tempted to give Up, your
pro'blem may seem beyond your strength, but there is still a ten times greater
strength within you-if you hut learn to use it.
Let me tell you what my master taught me of the methods of these wise
men. I cannot tell you ex·actly why they work. I only know that they do.
The wise men themselves cannot explain all the whys and wherefores. It
will probably he several thousand yeys before the explaining can be done.
But the using can be done right here and now, to give you a "second wind"
with which you mmy soar to the very heavens of earthly accomplishment.
How absolute is the Justice of Life, which promises ·that we may use this
great power in whatsoever way we may! Through it we may gain greater
health, greater success in whatever enterprise we choose, greater happiness,
greater courage, sublime poise and peace-we may use it to become "perfect
as the Father in Heaven is perfect." That promise was not made in vain.
Nor was the promise vain that "Heaven is within you," for you are indeed
"God in human form."
How joyful and thankful we should be that this God-given power is within
us! One of our wisest men, Beethoven, has proclaimed the great truth to
those who have "ears to hear." ' In his Pastoral Symphony, Beethoven began
to write of the shepherd's happiness ·that a storm is over. But the Supreme
Creator of AU Inspiration took . over the composer's pen. That simple
shepherd's melody became a mighty paean of joy, echoing from crag to crag,
swelling from mountain top to mountain top, with all the creatures of earth
swinging in a dance of rapture, and the stars of the heavens bursting forth
in song. An overwheming tide of thankfulness sweeps over us, that God is
so good, the world !!O beautiful, and men so divine. All the storms of life are
gone, and at last we see the IMMENSITY of the DESTINY which is oux:s!
Su~h is the joy and gratitude which YOU should feel, and which you WILL
feel, WHEN THE REAL TRUTH ABOUT YOUR OWN GREAT POWERS
FINALLY DAWNS UPON YOU!
The Institute of Mentalphysics,
Los Angeles, California, U.S. A.
Start Using These Strange
Methods At Once
•
Get Your Share Of Health,
Happiness, Power and Plenty
•
T HE FOREGOING LECTURE BY MR. EDWIN DINGLE, we are sure, will
convince you that he is, indeed,. an unu_
sual man, one who can reveal
mysteries of life you have never before known, and help you in a way
that i8 astonishing. No matter what your position in life, no matter
what your problems, no matter how great your ambitions, you owe it to your-
self to make use of his wisdom that has been preserved for you through so
many ages. ·
What Mr. Dingle learned in the strange land of Tibet, and elsewhere in ~e
Orient, is revealed in the SCIENCE OF MENTALPHYSICS, the Victorious
Philosophy of Life. Through the secret use of the principles here disclosed,
you will find yourself rushing toward fulfillment of your desires, and accom-
plishment of your ambitions, with such electrifying power of mind and
strength of body that you can no longer be your former self, but a man or
woman REBORN into a glorious new life of ever-growing happiness and
success.
For the benefit of those who have !!pecial problems: or particular ambitions,
we ehall here show in more detail what Mentalphysics means to you. Under
one of the headings which follow, you will no doubt find YOUR particular
ambition discussed. Be sure to look for it. Some of the problems may not he
your immediate concern; hut you undo-
uhtedly wish to know what amazing
results may he expected from this revolutionary disclosure. We, therefore,
recommend that you read ALL of the material which follows, even .where the
problem is not at present yours.
Why Worry About Lack Of Money? ... Get Your Share
Of Universal Supply
••• "ALL THESE THINGS SHALL BE ADDED UNTO YOU," is an old promise
and a true one. Once the Kingdom ·of Power within is found, the daily needs
of life, and even its luxuries, automatically iolfow. W'hen you learn the
principle of UNIVERSAL SUPPLY, as disclosed in Mentalphysics, you will
eoon he on your way toward that Kingdom of Power and its AUTOMATIC
REWARDS of plenty and abundance. 1
Unsuspected Opportunities--Overlooked Resources
• People bring on their own lack, through unknowing or unconscious inter/erence
with the law of Universal Supply. It is heart-breaking to ~ee people, hard-working,
-7-
conscientious, intelligent, deprived through no fault of their own from. enjoying
the plenty and happiness they deserve. And, though it happens every day, it is
ENTIRELY UNNECESSARY. Such people need only follow the principles of
Easy Plenty and Personal Mastery, which reveal unsuspected opportunities,
unforeseen sources of positions, unthought of plans for money-making, and
resources right at hand that have been overlooked.
You no doubt remember the story of the man who searched the world over
for a way to wealth-only to return home, an apparent failure, and find an acre
of diamonds on the old homestead. Thus it is with all of us. Right at hand are
resources undreamed-of, which we overlook.
1
Get Your Share of the Flow oi Abundance
• Let Mentalphysics help you find those resources, which are ALWAY~ there for
those who have eyes to see. Few people who have plenty of money an.d success
really know how it came about. They only THINK they know. Learn the re·a]
principles underlying the flow of abundance, a·nd it will come to you steadily and
automatically, instead of haphazardly and accidentally. The good things of life
are always at hand, always trying to find you, if you will but OPEN THE DOOR.
Your Acre of Diamonds is very likely right under yQur nose as you read this. but
you haven't the EYE TO SEE. Let Mentalphysics tell you about the INNER EYE,
and enjoy the bright new world and the amazing possibilities it discloses to you.
.That Ambition llf Yours -That Dream Of .Sm:cess - [ast
It Aside -You [an Accomplish a Ten Times 'Greater Success
••• To PROVE IT, WE SHALL TELL YOU THE TRUE FACTS about an adver-
tising man of our acquaintance. He had a five-thousand-dollar-a-year job.
Just above him was a man making ten thousand dollars a year. The latter
had induced the advertising man to take the job by intimating he .was about
ready to retire. The advertising man's one great ambition was to IJ;et that
ten-thousand-dollar-a-year job. For almost two years he waited for the man
above him to step out. Then the great disappointment came. His superior
signed a contract for another year, when the advertising man felt that surely
his time had now com!!.
' In a dudgeon of chagrin auq anger, the advertising man resigned his position.
His house of cards had fallen down. His one ambition had collapsed. He went
through a lot of foo!ish agony about the matter-entirely needless-foi:, though
he didn't know it, HIS AMBITION WAS TOO SMALL. Unknown to him, an acre
of diamonds was at hand.
Did Not Know What He Had
• Like many another adverti~ing man, he had spent idle moments in what he
thought to be FANCIFUL pictures of business that might be tried some time in the
dim and dista11.t future. He used to laugh at himself for this habit, and quote the
old song, "I'm forever blowing bubbles, pretty bubbles in the air." Except for
amusement, these "bubbles" seemed to him to be entirely tcio fantastic. Without
the INNER EYE tq see with, he didn't know what he had-just as you, probably,
don't know of the GREAT WEALTH that YOU can have.
Now, without a job, with two years apparently wasted, the advertising man
decided, in fear and trembling, to try one of his "bubbles." Within two years he
had a fortune of one-quarter of a million flollars. His "bubble" turned out to be
an acre of diamonds that all along had been under his nose. Instead of ·making
ten thousand dollars a year-all he hoped for~he made TEN TIMES that much
and more. He learned that the way is made smooth, once you are headed in the
right direction, and that a man can SLIDE to success like a toboggan speeding
down hill through the snow.
His success was more or less a matter of accident-and if you wait for such
-3--
accidents you are likely to wait forever. But there is no need for YOU to depend
upon accident and circumstance. Instead of waiting for sheer luck, you can
acquire knowledge of the INNER EYE which helps you to SEE the acres of
diamonds around you.
For thousands .of years wise men have been pondering the matter, and have
discovered methods and practices, little known in our Western world, that are
astonishinp;ly effective in disclosing the great possibilities of fortune around you.
THEIR WISDOM IS YOURS-you have but to reach for it-and those '.'bubbles"
of yours may leave the air and COME DOWN TO EARTH enabling you, too,
to SLIDE towar8 success. Much of that wisdom will be found in Mentalphysics.
Reach for it. Head yourself in the right direction, make the way smooth, and
SLIDE to fortune. Leave no stone~ unturned, when there is at hand A TEN
TIMES GREATER SUCCESS THAN YOU EVER HOPED FOR.
Why Sm:l:essful Men [annul Tell Yon How To Sttl:l:eeil -
What Is Wrong With Methods Yon Have Been Taught
• • • LIKE THE ADVERTISING MAN whose story is given above, most of our
successful men head in the right direction through pure accident. Others
unknow~ngly and unconsciously follow the right principles part. of the time,
and only THINK they know the reason for their success. That is why few of
them can really tell others how to succeed.
Oh, we know they get together in their chambers of commerce and their
millionaire clubs, pat th emsclVf~S and each other on the back, and tell one another
what great fellows they are. We know that they try to tell us that it was superior
brains, or ability, or industry, that accounted for their success. . But don't let
them pull the wool over your eyes. Most of them haven't any more brains and
ability than Y<;m have: many of them have far less education, and some of them
are downright lazy. You'll find one who was given a PUSH by apparently hard
luck. like the advertising man, and practically STUMBLED upon his acre of
diamonds-another who was so lazv he wouldn't work for other people and HAD
to go into'business for himself- still another who did the same thing because he
was NOT ABLE to earn. a comfortable salary working for other people-and
others who were practically FORCED into a fortunate ·investment by some high-
powered salesman. No wonder they cannot tell us tl(e laws of success !
All this is contrary, perhaps, to the "go-getter'~ book!\ and the "success
psychology" you have been reading. You will find much in Mentalphysics that
is ABSOLUTELY CONTRARY to Western ideas. The wise men of the East are
too keen, too penetrating in their thinking, to allow the wool to be pulled over
their eyes. They know that many successful people JUST HAPPENED to be
heading in the right direction at -the right time.
But they know something more, they have gone far deeper, throu gh thousands
of years they have found ways and means of FINDING. WITHOUT WAITING
~OR ACCIDENT. THE ACRE OF DIAMONDS AT THE HAND OF EVERY
MAN AND WOMAN. I
The Easy and Calm Way to Success
• Our Western "go-getter" methods often bring on only nervous collapse,
physical and mental exhaustion, premature old age, and a thousand other ill1,
without, in most cases, bringing any success whatever to the sufferer. ·The great
medical problem of today, in America, is the rapid increase of nerv·ous ailments
in the nation. As n<"ver before, doctors are besieged with nervous wrecks,
complex-ridden people-and the population of medical institutions is growing
so rapidly as to alarm and amrr:e those who know the facts. This "strenuous
life" psychology is all wrong ; the entire country has entered a blind alley.
WE are JUST IN TIME to save ou.rselves by turning to the wise men of the
East, who have developed methods for achieving success, and meeting our prob-
-9-
lema, EASILY AND CALMLY, without such prodigious effort and nerve strain.
You, too, can use the easy and calm methods, when the truths of Mentalphysics
are disclosed to you.
Enjoy Glorious Health and Strength - Feel and Look
Yonnqer - Delay (or Years the Advance of Age
• • • IT IS BEGINNING ro BE RECOGNIZED, in the Westem world, that THERE
IS SOMETHING WRONG WITH TIIE WAY ME THINK. Our writers and
our psychologists, some great religious and new thought movements, are
pointing out that many of our ills, our weaknesses, our failures, and our lack
of vitality, are due to MISUSE OF MIND POWER.
We are groping toward the truth at last. We have found that our minds have
TREMENDOUS INFLUENCE on our health, that within us is a STRENGTH
NEVER BEFORE REALIZED, which can accomplish apparent miracles in the
conquest of illness and lhe prolonging of life, in retaining youthful vigor and
handsomeneH for many years longer, and even in rebuilding weakened and invalid
bodies.
Methods Average Person Can llse
• But it's an old story to certain wise men of the East. And though we have
discovered method.a that work in OCCASIONAL cases, only a few people find
themselves able to use ~em effectively. Yet these wise men have methods that
many members of the Institute of Mentalphysics consider Jar more effective, far
more certain, and FAR MORE EASILY USED BY THE AVERAGE MAN
OR. WOMAN.
Wise men for many. ~enerations have CONCENTRATED upon the development
of mind power PRACTICALLY ALL THEIR LIVES. s._, it is not at all sur-
prising that they appear tc. know more about mind-power than we Pccidentals do.
'J1iey started on the problem some thousands of years ago, preserving their'
methods through the centuries, while we in the Western wwld are JUST BEGIN-
NING to realize what mind-power can do.
Unbelievable Powers of Mind
• Travelers return from Tibet and other remote corners of the East with stories
of men living to incredible ages, retaining youthful strength for many years,
mowing a mastery over other people, over their bodies and circumstances, that is
almost unbelievable. The highly intelligent leaders of these experts in mind-
power do not stoop to vulgar display. But occasionally some hermit who has
learned some of their secrets will perform amazing feats that cannot be duplicated
anywhere else in the world. Visitors to these far lands tell of men walking on
red hot coals, or of a man sitting for hours naked on the ice in bitter cold weather,
comfortable where another man would freeze to death, and even melting the
snow around him for five or six feet with the bodily heat he seems to control with
his mind alone. These, perhaps, are mete demonstrations to prove their powers
to the populace, or exercises to maintai~ the control of Mind over the body. But
the real wise men are men of balance and keen penetration, and use thi.3 power in
far more worthy piirposes--as you and any other sensible person would do.
If you wish· to learn more of the apparent miracles accomplished by men of
the East, you need only go to your public library-in book after book, especially
in books about Tibet, examples of remarkable feats of mind-power are given-
witneased and authenticated by well-known people.
Mind Makes Peoole Sick or Well
• You have no doubt heard of m,any of these cases, you have no doubt been
reading of the recent discoveries of the subconscious and superconscious mind in
ln'ery one of us. You can no longer question, therefore, that mind has a tremendous
ooatlrol over our bodies, that it can make us sick or well, can shorten our lives or
-10-
lengthen them, can cure us or kill us, make us strong, vigorous, handsome or
make us the reverse.
But, like many another, you have perhaps tried our crude and hastily-formu·
lated Western methods and find that they do not work, at least in your ca!ICi. And
little wonderI
Be the Person You Can Be
• But there ARE methods that can work, and which WILL work. Let Mr. Dinpe
disclose to you what he has learned from his wise teacher in Tibet, and then apply
his methods to YOUR health problems-to quote only ONE avenue through which
you can bring benefits to yourself. See for yourself WHAT AMAZING
CHANGES CAN BE BROUGHT ABOUT. Even if you THINK you are in good
health, learn how much MORE VITALLY ALIVE, how much STRONGER, how
much more immune to disease, how much more YOUTHFUL in body, spirit and
appearance you GAN be.
If we were to put in print the changes that hundreds of Mentalphysics followers
have testified have taken place in their physical bodies alone, the story would be
so striking tnat it would be regarded as incredible.
Fear - Timidity - Inferiority [omplex - Unsocial Habits -
Worry Onickly Mastered
• • • EVERYONE KNOWS THAT THE RELIEF of these handicaps lies in the
MIND ALONE. And none know it better than those who suffer from them.
Yet, knowing that in their minds resides a power for overcoming these llabits,
the sincere and earnest sufferers find themselves unable to reach that power.
Practically all have tried the usual formulre-telling themselves that they must
have confidence, faith, hopefulness, self-esteem, and so on. But they find this easier
said than done. And no wonder! •
Doing all this is not as easy as· some of our psychologists would have us
believe, nor is it as complicated as others would intimate. By Western methods,
of course, it is extremely difficult in most cases, because the problem is approached
from the wrong viewpoint. Often the methods only aggravate the difficulty by
centering the thoughts too much upon it.
That old quotation "As a man thinketh, so is he" is relied upon too much in
our Western world. It is not so much how a man thinks, but how he FEELS.
Thinking confidence is far different from FEELING it. Thinking hopefulness and
happiness is not alone able to make you feel that way.
We can, when we think of it, control our thoughts, but controlling our ~eelings,
moods and emotions, is a different matter. And it is our FEELINGS that are at
the bottom of fear, inferiority complexes, worry and other mental difficulties.
Long before we in the West realized the vast power hidden within us, wise men
of the East perceived it, and discovered ways of reaching that power through the
feelings as well as through the thoughts. Th~y aim to control the powerful moods
that make or break one, the underlying cause behind succe~s and failure.
Mentalphysics has adopted their astoundingly effective methods, and through
comparatively simple practices, inspires FEELIN.GSo of confidence, happine11,
superiority, faith. energy and ambition. Thus, through simple control of your
moods and emotions, you BECOME self-reliant, courageous, joyful, VICTORIOUS
in thought, feeling and manner, and EQUALLY victorious in your endeavors.
Feelings of fear, worry, inferiority, and so on, are crowded out. •
More Friends - Better Friends - Greater Influence Over
Others - Success in Your Social Life
• • •· As ONE HAPPY MAN OR WOMAN after another has proved, nothing can
stand before the person who FEELS his great destiny. In Mentalphysics you
learn that WITHIN YOU, ready to be used, is a divine power-hidden, little
- 11-
I
u.aed, tremendously powerful and awaiting your command ... an UNCON-
QUERABLE POWER, and when you feel that, the world and all that's in it
are yours for the taking-you really BECOME the splendid, admirable,
divinely capable and powerful person you OUGHT to be.
The world stands ready to pay homage to such a magnetic personality, to
give its choicest gifts of friendship and influence. People eagedy help such a
person, <1re flattered by his or her notice, and follow such leadership. And that is
the kind of person YOU can be-the power is within you as much as in anyone
else-all you need to do is to keep in touch with it. In MentalphyMcs you will find
methods that are unusually effective for getting in touch with that power-methods
worked out through thousands of years by generation after generation of Wise
men, methods found remarkably effective by many of our members.
Poise, Charm, Personal Magnetism
• Poise and charm, magnetism and character, are the natural ~ttributes of one
who finally comes to know the real power within him. To such a one, these world-
conquering attributes come without effort, without strain, EASILY and NATUR-
ALLY. They become the HABIT OF LIVING. All the good things of life pour
themselves upon such a person.
The woman thus endowed finds her5elf popular, invited everywhere, asked to
be leader in various social activities, with a choice of friendships that makes her
life a rarely pleasan~ adventure indeed. She finds her husband a grateful and
devoted helpmate, her children worshipful, and her home a haven of loyalty and
devotion-all through the influence of her own gracious presence.
Friends to Help at Every Turn
.
• The man thus endowed finds opportunity coming his way, with employers
clamoring for his services. He is able to help his children in the right paths, the
way is made easy for the carrying out of his plans, and·friends are ready to help
· him at every turn.
With such rewards in sight, every man and woman should find as quickly as
possible the real POWER WITHIN. Let Mentalphysics guide you toward such a
goal, as thousands of others have done, and seize from life the great rewards in
store for you. · ·
Greater Mental Powers - Greater. Development of Your
Talents - Greater Knowledge
• • • IN THE WEST, we do not appreciate sufficiently that mental power,
talent, ability, and wisdom are largely a matter of INSPIRATION. We depend
too much upon arduous ·acquisition of detail. Our colleges turn out young men
by the thousands who have quite a grasp of detailed informatio• on various
subjects, but who lack in:spir.ation, who do not seem able to uae their knowl-
edge to good advantage, who are not given the RIGHT THOUGHT AT THE
RIGHT TIME. · .
Nq,thing of value, permanently, has ever been accomplished without .INSPIRA-
TION. The permanently successful man or woman, in all fields, is the one upon
whose mind FLASHES the right IDEA when needed. Ability is chiefly a matter
of the frequency and dependability of such flashes of intuition. They break out
of the subconscious mind into the·conscious mind-no one knows exactly how-to
blossom forth into great works of writing, of music, of finance, invention, art in
its various forms. In other spheres, these flashes of inspiration lead to quick
decision, originality, unerring judgment, the ability to penetrate to the heart of a
1!1tuation and thus master it, ideas for improved methods in office, farm, shop and
factory. The right words come to the lawyer, the right diagnosis to the physician,
-12-
the right approach to the salesman, and the right manner to the man looking for
a job.
Without such inspiration, no one can get very far. Yet, where are we taught
methods for inviting such inspiration? It is usually left altogether to luck and
chance.
Inspiration Multiplies Your Talent.
• In Mentalphysics you ARE taught such methods- practices which have bi::en
found very effective throughout hundreds of years of careful experimentatio.Q by
keen minds. Inspiration comes from the Supreme Intelligence within. It is not a
matter of reason, or of mere education. It is a matter of getting in touch with that
vast mind within you that is many, many times more powerful than your conscious
mind. That subconscious mind is ready to do your bidding, when you learn how
to command it, to bring forth great worke, original ideas, the right thought at the
right time--so that your words are apt, your thoughts timely, your ideas inspired,
and your actions successful. ·
No matter what your talents, no matter what your ambition, you should learn
the way to call upon that SOURtE OF ALL INSPIRATION within you. Thus
you may become a brilliant conversationalist, a moving public speaker; thus your
letter-writing may accomplish its purpose, your, daily work stand above the ordi·
nary, your greatest ambition in all fields realized. What have you done .to get in
touch with the Source of all inspiration..'.....the Divine Power within you? The
supreme purpose of·Mentalphysics is to do this for you. · Call upon its powerful
aid in this high endeavor. ·
Mentalphysics Offered At Minimnm Cost ·
• e e THOUGH THE BENEFITS TO BE EXPECTED FROM MENTALPHYSICS should
be worth hundreds, even thousands of dollars, we ask Initiates only for 1ufli·
cient donations to carry on the work. There is necessarily expense incurred in
record keeping, in preparing and issuing the messages, preparation of printed
and photographic material. This and the constant enlargement of our efforts
require a small minimum donation from each Initiate. The required donation,
to he sent with the Application Form, is $5.00. This is sent to us before study
can begin. Thereafter, the required monthly contribution is $2.00:
By continuing this monthly contribution, you have the right of advancing in the
Great Revelation as far as you desire to go. So long as you remain a member,
messages will be mailed to you every fifteen days. Many find the messages so in·
spiring and helpful that they NEVER want them stopped, but the very first mes·
sages that you receive should show you that you are well on your way, and not
long thereafter you should begin to .perceive ACTUAL ~SULTS. We urge all
students, however, to complete the entire twenty-six-week Initiate Course, in fair-
ness to themselves and their own wondrous powors.
How the Great Messages [ome to Yon _Onr Method of
Presenting the Science of Mentalphysics
• • • EVERY TH.INKING MAN AND WOMAN, young or old, is consciously _or
unconsciously seeking what Mentalph.ysics teaches. I
When yo_u enter as a member of the Institute of Mentalphysics, this is your
official procedure. During the whole of your progress, you are in direct
tduch with your Guide, Edwin J. Dingle, ·our Preceptor and President of this
Institute. You are dealing with a human, helpful and considerate man, who
has made your troubles and your purpose.s the study of many years.
-13-
1. First Week's Message-"Guidance for the lnitiate"-a manuscript of great
usefulness and profound interest.
2. Second Week's Message-"Entering the Gate"-a manuscript unfolding
your tremendous possibilities.
3. Photographic Material-illustrating practices for you to make use of imme·
diatey in forwarding your purposes.
4. Printed Matter---explaining some of the principles, so far as we can know
them today, behind the strange methods.
5. The Method Itself-the first revelation, which you can apply at once, and
see the effect for yourself. •
NOTE: The methods and practices, effective as they are, can be used by anyone
of ordinary intelligenoe. The principles, however, are given for those keen minds
who delight in scientific and philosophical inquiry. Enough is given in the first
.installment alone to·give to such people a month's rare adventure into little known
but astonishing mysteries of life. Many of them. are today unexplainable, and may
not be explained until science has advanced a thousand years or more. We only
know that they work-how and why must be left, in a great measure, for future
ages to discover.
You Receive Eaoh Month Thereafter-
• Four weekly messages and photographic material. Methods for special pur·
poses. Practices designed to mould your life, in all aspects, into the beautiful and
triumphant pattern in which it can be moulded.
After 26 Weeks
• Complete review of your progress, with full examination at no extra cost to you.
Then, if examination is satisfactory, you are given a Diploma signed by the Pre-
ceptor Emeritus, testifying that you have successfully passed the examination.
No Interference With Your Religion
• Mentalphysics is not designed to take the place of your religion. Most religions
of today will find in Mentalphysics nothing to conflict with their teachings. Most
religions teach that there is a spark of the Divine in every human being. Mental-
physics merely helps you to realize this more clearly, and to use that Supreme
Intelligence Within in a practical way. It should help to give you more faith than
ever in a worthy religion. Those not belonging to any regular faith should find in
Mentalphysics the Victorious Philosophy of Life, a beautiful conception of man's
plaqe in the Universe, as practical and useful as .it is beautiful.
Health By the Modern Way
• The purpose of Mentalphysics is to use ALL the gifts of a generous Creator, no
matter what their origin. Just as Mentalphysics need not interfere .with you1· re·
ligion, it need not oppose your ideas of medical science, or anything whatever that
has a foundation in the good of humanity. Mentalphysics honors the inspiration
of-modem medical science equally as the heritage of wisdom from the Wise Men
•.• it bows in reverence before the genius of Lister, Harvey, Pasteur and our great
modem physicians. They were and are inspired by the same Universal Mind
\ which is the origin of all great work in a~ field of human endeavor. But many
people, when they utilize the physician's services, deny him the help that the,
alone can give, and the help of THE GREATEST HEALER OF ALL within ua.
This help c~n come through YOU ALONE. Every forward-looking and broad·
minded physician will admit that without it he is often helpless, and that with it
the apparently impossible can b~ done. What is it? It is the divine spark of
Creative Intelligence that is in all of us, and which can be used to break down
-14-
habits of thought and mood which oppose the vast healing power of your IUboon·
scious mind. Why not, by practicing the principles of Mentalphysics, add to your
own efforts the SUPREMELY POWERFUL AID of the all-conquering Creator
within you? '
Begin Today to Live the Life
Yon Ought lo Live
• Can you see yourself radiantly full of life, successful, happy-with plenty of
this world's goods and property, USING what you have? Can you see yourself a
leader in your chosen field of endeavor? Can you see yourself engaged in work
that you like-many friends about you-people looking up to you, and YOU
making them happy by helping them? Can you see yourself, day after day, year
after year, doing what you want to do IN THE WAY YOU. WANT TO DO IT?
You can-and MUST-if you are to be the person you CAN be. Let Mentalphysics
show you what a powerful aid it is in ·making you JUST THE PERSON YOU.
HAVE ALWAYS WANTED TO BE. Be honest with yourself. Answer frankly
the questions below which may apply to you.
• WHY BE SUBJECT ANY LONG£R TO PARALYZ-
ING FEARS, OR INFERIORITY FEELINGS?
• WHY BE THE SLAVE OF MOODS, WHEN YOU
CAN BE THEIR MASTER?
• WHY TAKE A BACK SEAT ANYWHERE, AT
ANY TIMEi'
• WHY LET OTHERS, WITH NO MORE REAL
BRAINS THAN YOU HAVE, GEl' AHEAD OF
YOU IN ANY RESPECT WHATSOEVER?
• WHY LET YOUR NEIGHBORS HAVE THE GOOD
THINGS OF LIFE, WHILE YOU DO WITHOUTl
• WHY LET DISCORD AND LACK OF HARMONY
RAISE THEIR HEADS IN YOUR HOME?
• WHY DENY YOUR LOVED ONES THE COM-
FORT AND LITTLE LUXURIES THEY DESERVE?
• WHY DENY THEM THE GREATER INFLUENCE
AND HELP WHICH YOU CAN GIVE THEM,
ONCE YOU KNOW YOUR OWN POWERS?
• WHY TAKE LIFE THE HARD WAY, WHEN AN
EASY WAY IS AT HANDi'
• WHY LET ANYONE HAVE A FALSE IMPRES-
SION OF THE INTELLIGENT AND WONDERFUL
PERSON YOU REALLY ARE?
• WHY NOT SURROUND YOURSELF WITH DE-
VOTED AND LOYAL FRIENDS, WITH YOU
PROUD OF THEM AND THEM PROUD OF YOUl
• WHY NOT LIVE A LIFE OF RARE BEAUTY,
OF GLORIOUS ACCOMPLISHMENTS, OF RICH
REWARD, AND SUPER-ABUNDANT VITALITY?
There is only one answer. You WILL C<?rrect these things. You WILL
take advantage of the ways and means the Wise Men have diecovered for
bringing about what they desire. You WILL 'send for the first great meuagm
of Mentalphysics in which long-hidden methods are disclosed to you.
The time to do it is today-NOW. OBEY THAT INSPIRATION. Fill
out the enclosed Application Form, and let your progress toward your pur·
poae. 'fegin AT ONCE.
-15- .
'
Personal Service
• • • EDWIN J. DINGLE ·or his Staff are ever at the service of students to
as!ist them by personal letters in their practice of the principles of Mental·
phyaics. Counsel is the result of vast experience with students throughout
the world as well as personal observation and consultation arising out of
personally conducted classes in Los Angeles.
Start Now-Mail the Application Farm
• • • ENCLOSE WITH IT $5.00, and all the material which an Initiate receives
upon enrollment will be on its way to you. Your GREAT ADVENTURE
int<> the mystic powers of your own mind will have begun. The fruition of
your purposes, the .achievement of your ambitions, the relief of your handi-
caps ana worries, will be no longer a dream qf the future, but things which
can soon be achieved by that power within you. Time passes swiftly,
tomorrow sometimes never comes, today will soon be in the irretrievable past.
Make use of today, let it be the TURNING POINT in your life, when you
start FULL SPEED AHEAD toward the splendid man or woman you CAN
BE and ARE. Let not another minute pass, when everything good in life is
trying to FIND you.
SECOND AND HOBART BLVD.
LOS ANGELES, CALIF., U. S. A.
The Scimce of M..ita/physics is the foner Teaching
of The Internatio..a/ C/mrch of The Holy Trinity.
"If we work upon marble, it will perish; if on brass, time
will efface it; if we rear temples, they will crumble into
dust, but if we work upon immortal minds and imbue
them with the principles, with the just fear of God and
love of our fellow men, we engrave on those tablets some·
thing that will brighten to all eternity."-WEBSTER.
-16-
The above flashlight photograph was
taken in the Senior Beacon Chamber of
the Institute of Mentalphysics, at Los
Angeles, California, showing as much of
the Chamber as the position of the
camera would permit.
There will be added physical anl mental happiness and
the Gate to the Road of Knowledge will swing open to
invite the student to enter the Holy of Holies in his quest
for still greater and greater knowledge of the Truth.
The practices as taught in Mentalphysics have been
found by hundreds to be revolutionizing in their effect.
It is confidently believed that the man who, with regu-
larity and reverent perseverance, will follow the laws.
secrets, practices and principles of this Faultless Philos-
ophy of Life will find himself back to Life Balance.
Note on Edwin·J. Dingle, F.B.G.S.
Author of: Across China on Foot; China's Revolution 1911-1912; Breathing Your
Way to Youth; Your Mind and Its Mysteries; How to Meditate, 11nd
Other contributions to the Higher Philosophy of Life and the Science of
Living.
ldltor of: Dingle's New Atlas and Commercial Gazeteer of China; Bi-lingual Map
of China ; Far Eastern Products Manual; China and Far East Finance and
Commerce; F. & C. Year Book, and Other Standard Economic Publications.
BOWIN JOHN DINGLE, Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society of
Great Britain, and other kind!ied international societies, was born in England;
trained· as writer and geographer; an orphan at, nine.
• Leaving England, followed his profession in Straits Settlements and lived
in Asia-China, India and Tibet-for 21 years; traveled widely in East
Indies studying philosophy and religion; walked cleat across China to
Burma, returned to interior, met with many accidents and illnesses, lived
in Oriental teinp!es, for many months in a Tibetan monastery where he
recdved ·guidance in the practices of Ancient Tibet (his temple life is the
most unbelievably fascinating story of a white man's life in that inscrutable
land of philosophy, and is divulged only to his advanced students); traveled,
studied, practiced his profession, always preparing himself for final life
work; authority on Oriental economics and philosophy.
• Has to his credit an enviable record of achievement in the Beld of geo•
graphical exploration.
• While in his Tibetan monastery, our beloved Preceptor was selected to
have disclosed to him and was systematically taught methods closely
guarded for many centuries in Tibet, and by their use restored his physical,
mental and spiritual body from almost utter extinction to perfection. Today
he is a remarkable living monument to his phenomenal teachings, so that,
long past the mark of middle life, his body stands as a splendid physical
and spiritual instrument. His mastery of these little known fundamental
Oriental laws, which he has adapted to the tempo of the modern mind, is so
complete that he possesses the inimitable faculty of uncovering to you the
method by which he himself demonstrates that which he teaches. He lived
practically in retreat from 1922 to 1927, then founded the Science of
·Mentalphysics-a practical, Western-understood, philosophical, inspira·
tional and spiritual teaching, declared to be the Greatest Teaching Accessible ·
to Man, and the great World Movement of Tomorrow-available only
through the Institute of Mentalphysics.
• H ever in this life you will meet a Teacher whose whole life is devoted
to humanity through his ever-increasing circle of followers, it will be in
Edwin John Dingle, beloved of all who know him. There is nothing in the
Western world that begins to compare with his true Inner Teaching.
• Much more could be written about the head of this institution, but, as
he himself says, "words are the leafage--the fruit of the tree Is in the
deeds of life,"
