{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1937__annemann___en_rapport.pdf","mytitle":"En Rapport","mylang":"de"}
''
..•..,
'
•
WILL ALMA
M.l.M.C. (LONDON)
•
~
,,
\ '
\ \
\ '
\ '
'
\
'
\
\
'
''
\
\
\
\
\
~
'
Copyright , 1937, by Theo .
Wor ld Copyright Reserved.
A complete , routined act
of telepathy, mind reading ,
and clairvoyance , desi gned
for t wo people ,and possi ble
of being pres ented b ef or e a
most cr i t ical audi ence . The
mi nimum of pr epar ation is
necessary for the m
aximum
of eff ect. The pr ogr am wi l l
run a ppr oximately 30 min-
utes .
\
\
\
\
\
\
'\
\
''' '
Annemann
' ''
The State 1.ibrnry of \'ictoria
"ALl'vtA CONJUIUNU COLLEC flON"
Berore we get into the actual working of thi~ set
or tricks, I want to make clear several points. Th~
routine as it is given here, has been tested out and
used since 1929. The tests were worked out from the
standpoint of simplicity in method, and ma.xi.mum in
effect. After witnessing many two person code per-
formances, I came to the conclusion that while audi-
ences were quick to give credit tor cleverness, they
invariably knew that information was being conveyed
by the apeaking of performer to medium.Therefore,the
code given herein was developed to deceive by subtle
arrangement. At two times, after having seen a dem-
onstration of naming cards, I was offered $25 to re-
veal the code alone.
As printed here, the codes are easily learned in
an evening. The routine, as a whole, can be learned
in a second evening, and with a few test programa to
smootbe things out, you are all set.
Another point. Many acts are published and mark-
eted, but nine times out ot ten, they are put out to
satisfy 'the need of stage wor kers. They require mony
weeks or rehersal, and then only become practical by
constant use before large audiences. At least 95% of
those who buy magic books are those who follow magic
1n an amateur or semi-professional m~nner.Their per-
f ormances are intermittent, and they seldom,if ever,
have the opportunity (or desire it) for doing large
stage work. Their showe are limited to olube, homes,
private parties, and aud1ences of the intimate sort.
It was that last type for which this routine ho.a
been p\tblished. The wives and sweethearts, who, for
the most part, will be the ones on the receiving end
of the show, have but a minimum to learn, and yet be
able to present an intimate act of professional cal-
ibre, and one for ~hich the writer has reeoived fees
up to $200 for a single evening in private homes and
clubs.
Therefore, please don •t glance through this bro-
chure and say, 11
It looks pretty good. 0
Read it tho-
roughly (it hasn' t been padded) and say, "It really
IS good. It HAS been used a good many times which 1a
proof of its practicalness. It IS what I've needed a
long time in order to do such an act. 11
.....14.~
Pae e l
Tile code to be learned by both partioipanta fol-
lowa. At all times, the performer talk• to the apeo-
tator and NOT to the mediwa. No questions are put to
the medium, and it ia in a word or two to the apeo-
t atora that the information ia aent.
UNITS TENS
1 Don't l Now
2 Think 2 Please
3 Take 3 Juat
4 Place 4 All right
5 Give 5 All right now
6 Say 6 All right please
7 Name 7 All right just
8 See 8 Now please
9 Put g Now just
0 Try
The above words will take care or all numbers, to
and including 99. The card code, following, is prao-
tically the same, with the exception of a few word.a
added that are more naturally ~ed with oarda.
A Don't - Hold
2 Think -
3 Take -
4 Place -
5 Give - llix
SUITS - C
D
s
H
(nothing)
All right
Just
Now
6 Say - Remember
7 Name - Shuffle
8 Seo - Look
Joker - Nothing said
9 Put -
10 Try - Cut
J Tell -
Q Keep -
K Aak - Concentrate
There is but one thing elae to memorise. The coin
naming and delivery to owner effect neoesaitatea the
remembering of United States coins in the order giv-
en. In other countries, arrange the coinage in same
order of value, as far as they go.
1 Penny
2 Nickle
3 Dime
4 Quarter
Page 2
5
6
Half-dollar
Dollar
The secret of this routine depends entirely upon
two things; the subtleness of the code, and the ef-
fects with which it is used. All such acts have de-
pended on a code alone to pass 1n1'ormat1on secretly.
In this act, the methods of operation are continual-
ly being changed, and the effects presented are tru-
ly different.
In rehersing, the performer is to forget the med-
ium and address ALL of his remarks to the audie11ce.A
watchful observer will never hear the performer give
his remarks to anyone but the spectators, and those
are concealed in instructions and d1rect1ons,and not
aa inane, senseless, and obvious asides.
Here are some examples of the code words in use.
You need never say the same thing twice exactly. As
you become accustomed to it all, you will ramble a-
long to the spectators, and at the right moment, the
key word or words will be used to start a sentence.
It will be noticed that in the card code,the suit
and value are given at one time, the suit words fit-
ting before the value words perfectly. This also ap-
plies to the number code, it being possible to send
any number from l to 99 instantly. There ie no dan-
• ger of mixing the two codes as they are always used
at different times, and the same applies to the coin
effect. The medium knows what is going on, and it is
only necessary to use the number code word3 from one
to six when coding the coin value.
Ace of Qlubs - "Don't let anyone else see
Three of Diamonds - •rAll right, take the
self. 11
your card~
deck your-
Q
ueen of Spades - "Just keep the
Ten of Hearts - 11Now try to keep
mfna except your
card in your mind. 11
everything off your
card. 11
You will readily see how natural this sounds when
addressed to a spectator, and how it is possible to
change the sentences at random, as long as your key
words start you off.
The same rules of speech apply to the number code
when it is brought into play during the routine. See
how many different things you can eay for each card
and number, keeping the code words in place. 'rhis is
good practise, and will make you realise much sooner
Pa ge 3
•
how varied are the possibilities of what you can say
to the people helping you in the audience.
AND NOW WE GET DOWN TO BUSINESS -
The preparation and apparatus necessary for pre-
sentin~ this routine consists of very little.
Two decks of playing cards
A pad of paper about 2ix3! such as sold at Wool-
worth stores in packets as scratch pads
A dollar bill
A package of end opening drug envelopes (manilla)
Two fairly good size slates and ch.a1k
A thumb tip that is a little too large for you
Three or four pencils
Stack the two deck:I according to your best liked
system. Either the Eight King or Si Stebbins method
is all right, although I prefer the former.
Jot down the number on your dollar bill, and h.o.ve
the medium memorise it, or better, pencil it on the
border of her handkerchie£ which she carries.Before-
hand, both you and the medium learn the order that
will be used in disclosing the figures. I had number
revealad,. figure by figure, in this order; 6th, 1st,
4th, 7th, 2nd, 5th, 8th, 3rd. Starting with the 6th,
you merely keep going to the right, skipping 2 fig-
ures each time, and as there are eight numbers on a
bill, this eventually hits them all. Later on, when
we cover the effect itself, with presentation,you'll
see how this bu~lds the effect up greatly. Place the
bill, folded small and flat, in one of the coin en-
velopes, and have it on bottom or s~ack.
Take three of the envelopes, and get the same
number of different colored crayons. Hold one open
and, reaching inside it to bottom, or the closed end
with one of the colored pencils, mark it with three
or four lines on ench side. This is so that when you
tear off the bottom later on, to open sealed envel-
opes , you can see a part of the colored lines immed-
iately, and know which of the three it is, and which
per son's coin is inside. I used crayons colored red,
yellow and green, considering them as one, two, and
three, in that order. It is necessary that both you
und the medium know this color arrangement,especiall
Page 4
the medium. Before the presentation starts, you and
the medium decide upon three people in the audience
who will be given these envelopes, and the medium is
to consider them as persons one, two, and three.This
previous spotting makes possible a most unusual cli-
max. Put the three marked envelopes in correct order
on the top of the stack.
Put the thumb tip in right trouser pocket, or if
you wish, in the lower right vest pocket.However, it
is more natural to secure it from trouser pocket.
With the pad of paper handy, together with slates
and chalk, pencils, and the stacked decks,you 1 re set
to present the routine.
I.A.DIES AND GENTLEMEN:
"For many, many years, it has been kno1'Il that two
people 1 s mind.a can be •en rapport•, that is, to say,
in sympathy and unison with each other. There have
been many to exploit this phase of mentality,and for
the most part, they have resorted to trickery,secret
knowledge, and underhanded practise. In our presen-
tation, this evening, we will try to convince all of
you, that deception has been eliminated to the point
where the teata we do can be successful only through
the perfect co-ordination of our minds.
However, as is always the case, many will consid-
er it fakery of some sort, and,rather than take up
valuable time discussing the subject, we trust that
those persons will look upon it all as entertainment
only, and find amusement and novelty in our presen-
tation of what we consider a science. 11
Arter this opening, you put a chair in front,with
it3 back to audience. The medium sits down, and you
pick up one Qf the stacked decks. Remove it from the
case, and false shuffle if you can, although one or
two cuts will do. Now go towards some person ~d ask
them to think of any card. Stand at their side·,ran-
ning the deck ao that both of you can see the faces.
Tell him to watch for his card, and when he sees it,
he is to pull it up half way out of the fan, so you
can look directly at it. You are talking right along
as you do this, telling him what to do. The moment
he pulls up a card, you hesitate in your speech for
a second, and then continue, but this time you send
the name of the card across. You can use every card
Pa g e 5
signal except "Mix" and· "Shuffle" for 5 and 7 ,as you
are using a stacked deck in this case. The medium is
now aware of the card, and the s pectator asks medium
if she lmows it. Sh~ names the color, then the suit,
and finally the entire name.
Now explain in a few words that you have the per-
son think of a card, instead of taking one,and thus-
ly prevent any possibility that you may have influ-
enced his choice. Ask someone else to think of one,
and repeat the effect. For the third time,spread the
deck face down on a chair or t able, and have n s pec-
tator remove any card, not showing it to anyone else
but himself. As he does this, you keep talking, say-
ing that this time even you will not see or know the
card, and that the medium will attempt a direct test
of thought reading. As you talk, you've picked cards
up in two sections, cutting the 9pread at the point
where seleoted card was removed. You lay deck on the
table face up, spotting the bottom card, which, be-
cause of the stacking, tells you that the next sys-
tem card is the chosen one, and immediately you send
the selected card to the medium who proceeds to cor-
rectly no.me it. All of this takeo but a minute, and
is convincing because it upsets nny idea that might
have been f ormed that you had to see the card.
Now you state that the medium ha.s developed great
powers of prophecy. Rather than tell what has h.
ap-
pened, she will attompt telling what is going to oc-
cur. Pick up the pad of paper and openly tear three
sheets off. Hand them to the medium, with a pencil,
and put a hat or deep dish on the floor or a t able,
a foot or two to her right. Now step back into aud-
ience with the still stacked deck. Step up to a per-
son and ask him his name. \Ve will suppose the name
is "John Brown. 11
Turning towards medium.you ask her
to "Write something for Mr. Brown. 11
She is seen to be
writing something on a piece of paper, and then she
holds out a crumpled up piece, saying,"Here is some-
thing for lvtr. Brown, 11
and pr oceeds to drop it openly
into the boY1l.
Remarking t hnt a prophecy has been made before a
thing has been done , you spread the deck in front of
ll1r. Brown, o.nd have him freely select, and keep, any
one of the cards, not showing it to anyone else. You
now pass to another person, ask their name, request
the medium to write something for them,and again she
Po.g e 6
writes and drops a crumpled paper into the bowl. The
spectator takes a card and keeps it as did the first
subject, and you pass to a third for a repitition of
the same actions. At this time, you lay deck aside a
minute and remind everyone that before each card was
removed, the medium wrote something for that person.
Any spectator is now asked to go forward and take
the papers from bowl. He is to read them one by one.
And each paper says, "Mr. --- (or whatever name was
given) will select the ---·"And as each paper's se-
oret is disclosed, the spectator, for whom proPh.ecy
was written, holds up his card, and shows it as the
right one.
Before detailing the working points of this hair
raising trick, (for it is quite that) I want to say
that originally, this effect was conceived by Al
Baker and told me about 1928. However, after working
it a number of times, it was changed so that the me-
dium could be seated with her back to audience, all
forcing was eljminated, and it was made unnecessary
for the performer and medium to know, in advance,the
name of any person. This not alone has made the ef-
fect easier and cleaner, but a bit more practical in
cases where previous information is difficult to se-
cure.
At the start, the medium has three pieces of pa-
per and a pencil. When the first person's name ~orues
up, the medium writes on the first paper, 11
Mr. -----
will s elect the ", leaving the name of the
card unfinished. She folds it up, holds out her hand
to plainly 3how it, remarking that she has something
written for Mr. ----, and apparently puts it in the
dish, but actually brings it right out again in her
hand, and back to lap. You now have the card chosen
from the face down spread, and kept. Pick up deck in
two sections, cutting at the point from where chosen
card was removed. A glance at the bottom card indi-
cates to you the name of the selected card, and you
:Jmmediatel;r code it to medium. You no'' pass to next
person and ask his name. You tell it to mediwn. Thie
time she writes on the second paper, "Mr. -- \Till se-
lect the ", leaving name of card unfinished,and
al8o FIIJS OUT TIIE REST OF PAPER NO.l ViITH TIIE NAJ.1E
OF THE CARD JUST CODED TO HER. Now she folds up the
paper No. 1 (just completed), shows it and says that
she has written something for person No. 2,and drops
Page 7
•
it openly into the bo\vl. At tl1is time she ho.s paper
No. 2 uncompleted, and paper No. 3 blank. ?-Tow person
No. 2 selects a card from the deck as did person No.
1, you learn its identity in the same manner, coding
it immediately. Passing to No. 3 you ask his name as
you have done with the others. Tell it to medium and
she fills out po.per No. 3 with 11
Mr. --- •.Till select
the ", and completes paper No. 2 by filling in
the name of the card she has just received. Folding
paper No. 2, she holds it out, remarks that she has
written something for person No. 3, and drops it in
the bowl. No\T No. 3 person selects his CA.rd, and a-
gain you send the message acro3s.
At this point you are ready for the climax. You
put deck down, and spend about half a minute or less
recalling that three cards havo been chosen, none of
which you could possibly lcnow, and that each time, a
pr ophecy was made by medium and put in bowl, BEFORE
the selection was mnde. During this , the medium has
been sittins with hands in lap, and out of sight,but
has filled in the paper No. 3 with the nrune of card
signalled last. She folds 1t and holds in her r1gl1t
fingers. At the moment you ask someone to go forwurd
and take the papers, she stands up to face audience
for the finish, at the same time piclcing up the bO\Tl
and holding it. The fingers of right hand go inside
and thumb outside, in the action of piclcing it up,so
the palmed paper No. 3 is deposited within. The spec-
tator steps forward, takes the papers, and reads one
at a time. After each reading , the per~on whose name
is given, holds up his card, and it will be correct.
The fact that each person's namo is on the paper
with the name of his card; the fact that you haven't
known the name of any person before tl1ey tell it to
you; the point that you do not see, at any time, the
cards removed and kept from deck; and the fact that
the medium h~s written and put each prophecy aside
BEFORE a cara.' was drawn, makes this an unbelievable
mystery. I have found also that, in private homes,
it is nice to ask the host or hostess for a sheet of
note paper which you tear into three piecos for this
effect. In this way you get a different type of pa-
per than you would have, and it makes obvious that
only three pieces a.re used, to anyone vrho might be a
bit suspicious.
Immediately after this problem, you conclude with
Page 8
cards, by pi clcing up deck, and saying tl1at you will
pr esent the test \'11th \Th1ch you have convinced mnny
skeptical scientists that the mediwn can read a mind
directly and correctly. Have a spectator step to the
front . The spectator, the medium, and you, stand in
line, the medium, \Vith her back to tl1e s pectator; t he
s pectator, witl1 his back to her back, and you stand
with your back to the spectator. In this position of
the three of you, neither the medium or you can see
each other, and neither of you can see tl1e spectator
between.
Hand him the pack of cards, saying, "First, give
them a bit of a shuffle and put them race down and
squared up on your loft hand." Hurry him up a little
at this point by asking him if he is ready as soon
as you hear him stnrt mixing, and repeating ,"Put the
deck on le.ft hand, .face do\vn. 11
Now tell him that as
he has shuffled them, he should cut them once. Just
nn ordinary square cut. Now tell him to look at and
r emember the top card, whatever it may be, and then
push it into tl1e middle of deck somewhere to be sure
it is completoly lost.
At this point, you turn, and take deck from spec-
t ator, squaring the edges a little more aa you do ao
and getting a glimpse of the bottom card. Figure one
ahead in the stacking system, and you know the name
of the top card which he l ooked at and buried in the
center. Code it across to medium who stands with her
back still towards spectator, then motion for quiet
and look intently at the pack. Slo\vly she namen the
color, suit and finally the card.
The principle of shuffling a stacked deck for one
trick is very little lolown. I fell onto it eight or
nine years ago, and thought it original until I dis-
covered it hidden away in one issue of Stanyon's pa-
per 11
Magic11
over twenty years ago. It makes a good
location for a single person, but used in this man-
ner with two people, it is a knockout. No one under-
stands how you can possibly know the card, let alone
the medium, and the misdirection is per fect, as they
continually watch to see you make some sort of move
when you take the deck. Many times you will be able
to turn around and get a glimpse of the bottom card
while spectator is squaring deck and tapping edges.
When this is possible, you don't take the deck at
Page 9
all, but oode the selected card across at once when
telling him what to do with them, or how to think ot
his oard.
Now the medium takes her seat again with back to
audience. You ask for a one dollar bill, for you are
now going to work entirely with figures. Pick up the
packet of envelopes and remove the bottom one which
has the folded bill inside. Your right hand drops to
pocket and secures the thumb tip. Hold envelope in
left hand, flap up, and pinch the sides to open. Put
right thumb into mouth of envelope as an aid in op-
ening, leaving the tip behind. In the meantime, the
spectator who has proffered the bill has been asked
to fold it up small. Take with your right hand, and
give it an extra fold if necessary. Put it in mouth
of envelope, into tip, and right thumb follows it 1n
and comes out beh~nd wearing tip. The flap is folded
down and the envelope handed to someone to hold. The
right hand goes to pocket and comes out with a piece
of chalk, and the tip with bill is left behind•
.
Pick up the slate, and on it, holding slate with
its side parallel with floor, draw enough vertical
lines so eight figures can be written between them.
Now ask the medium to concentrate and through her
powers of clairvoyance, divulge what she knows about
the concealed bill. From now on you say nothing else
until she has finish. You will remember that both of
you have learned an order in which the bill figu.reis
are to be revealed4 6th,l8t,4th,7th,2nd,5th,8th,3rd.
Suppose the number on the bill is 48872710. Thia bas
been memorised or written on her handkerchief.
She hesitates a few seconds and then says, "I see
that the 6th figure ls a 7. 11
You mark a 7 in the 6th
space on slate, always holding it so audienoe sees
just what is being put down. She continues, "In the
.first place I see a 4. 11
You mark a 4 1n the lat ot
the spaces. She goes on, "There's a figure fading 1n
now in the 4th position, and it's another 7.nin thi.s
way, all of the figures are finally called out,whlch
fills the slate. After the last one is put down, you
turn towards the person holding the envelope, and to
him you say, "Please open the envelope and take out
the bill from inside. Open out the bil1, and look at
the serial number on it. Then read slowlyfi but loud-
ly, the entire number from left to right. 1
Page 10
The spectator reade . the number, and as he does so
you draw a line through each of the figures on slate
until all are marked off. This makes an awfully nice
finish to the effect, and although the whole working
has been nothing but presentation, you'll find that
people will remember it. The method of procedure is
very convincing.
And now we come to the nicest two person coi11 er-
.feet I'-
ve ever run across. I revealed the basis for
it in the June, 1935 issue of my publication, 11
The
Jinx0 , but Mr. Audley Walsh developed it into an en-
tirely different effect from the original. I did not
have this in my original act, but at this point used
a stunt which was based on mnemonic memory. As I am
producing something which is not to requi~e a l ot of
study and concentration, I am inserting this effect
in the place of the old.
The medium is still seated with back to audience,
and you announce that this test will be one of com-
bined telepathy and somnolency. Pick up the pack of
envelopes and remove the three marked ones. They are
in order, so you hand them to the three people upon
whom you and medium decided. Ask each of them to put
inside any single coin they may have in their pocket
but first to note the date. Then they are to seal up
envelopes, keeping in mind the denomination and date
of their money.
The envelopes are collected by anyone else. This
person mixes them, and hands them to you, one at a
time. With the remark that this prevents you knowing
which is which, or to whom any of the envelopes be-
long, you tear off the bottom of envelope to open it
and dump coin in hand. In pinching the envelope open
after tearing, you see coin before it is dumped out
and send the denomination as coin 1s sliding out in-
to hand. To the audi ence , you are just finishing off
the remarks mentioned above. For 1nstance{i1f the en-
velope contained a dime, you might say, 'Take your
minds off everything but your coins." Or,for a half-
dollar, 11
Give all of your thoughts to your coin. 11You
hold the coin in hand and look intently at it.IAediu.m
says, ''The piece of money I see now, is a ten cent
piece." As she no.mes the denomination correctly, you
pick coin from palm and hold it up so 1t can be seen
by all. When you dumped coin into palm and signalled
the value, you had four or five seconds to yourself
Page 11
before she finished answering. During that interval
you noted the date, and the moment she revealed the
denomination of coin, and as you hold it up for all
to plainly see, you send across the l ast two figures
of the date. If the coin's date is 1919, you mi ght
sa y , 11
Nov1 put your minds on your dates . " For a date
like 1921, you could say, "Please don 't think of any
thing else but your dates ."
The medium now s ees the coin plainly and is sur e
that the date is 1919. The moment you have shown t he
coin, and sent the date across , you drop the coin in
the envelope again and \Vait until she f'inishes. Then
she stands up, and approaching you, ta.lees the envel-
ope and walks into the ·audience. You do not say any-
thing. Just stand still and watch. She may say some-
thing like this, 11
1 want to return this coin to its
owner, and if the per son to wl101n it belongs will on-
ly think of me as coming closer and closer to him, I
think I may be able to do 1t . 11
As slte talks, she op-
ens envelope and dumps coin into hor ho.nd,and in do-
ing so gets a glimpse of the color markings, AND IN
THIS ~VAY KNO\"S V
iHICH OF THE 'rHREE PEOPLE IS THE ONE
TO \VHOld THE COIN SHOULD BE GIVEN.
They acknowledge the correctness of this, and she
returns to her chair, but merely stands with back to
audience , i nstead of sitting clown again. You are nO\f
l1anded another envelope, and you repeat the pr oced-
ure, but this tilne· send both the denomination andthe
date, one after the other. Then, after she calls out
the value, you mer ely show it, say nothing, and she
continues with the date , and fini shes by returning
it t o its owner. Now finish with the last envelope
in the srune way, but when t he medium takes it to re-
turn this t ime, she doesn't even glance at the en-
velope, but sort of crumples it in hand, with coin
inside, and wanders around a bit before giving it to
the ovmer. She knows which of the three is left, and
doesn' t have to bother with the marking.
This is all very effective, and mostly becaus e it
appears that you, yourself, cannot know to whom the
va rious coins belong, everything being mixed before
you touched them, and you never seeing who put what
in which envelope.
A~ter this number, t he medium returns to her seat
with back to audi ence , and you pi ck up pad of paper.
Page 12
l________.._..- -...- .--..
··t11e--·1a.·3 t- piiper ent-
er.ing•t;·1p:·--·t·h·~·- ·; l gh t thumb goes in
wi th it, and right hand grasps bowl. The left hand
lets go, and without your showing it so, it is seen
empty by those \1ho may look for 1t. Carry bowl back
to the front with right hand, and put it down upon a
chair or table, well in front of medium, that is,be-
tween her and audience.
Now remark that for this test she must cater to
her concentrative powers more than usual, and there-
fore a blindfold is in order. Take handkerchief from
your breast pocket with right hand (thumb still has
tip), and as you stand behind her, put right hand a-
r ollild her right side, and left hand reaches arollild
left side to catch other end of hank, and the right
thumb lets tip with papers fall into her foldedhands
in lap. Now you proceed to blindfold her, but, nat-
urally, she can see down under it into her lap. Im-
mediately she gets the papers, she starts opening up
and looking at them. In the meantime, you finish the
blindfolding, and then step back and pick up the one
slate which was used for the bill trick. Rub off the
numbers on it, the blindi'olding plus this action be-
ing ample time for her to see and refold all of the
papors. It is no tax on anyone's memory to remember
the three bits of data on them, and then she returns
them to tip, and holds it in left fingers with mouth
towards right, nnd nail side upward.
l\.pproach medium's right side with the slate held
between rirat and second fingers of your right hand,
and thumb on top. As you put slate in her lap,medium
merely puts the tip on your right thumb, and you re-
turn to the bowl. Reach into bowl with right hand,
and push tip off with fingers as you apparently m1x
t he slips arollild a bit. The slips, being under ball
of thumb , a little pressure in pulling out thumb
will drag them out of tip, and you pick up either or
the first two, but leave the picture slip until the
last.
Hand this paper to someone close, and ask them to
open it up and tell you whether it is the number, or
the word, or the pictur~. The medium hears this, or
course. Then you ask them to concentrate upon number
or word, whichever it may happen to be, and the med-
ium is heard writing on slate. Suddenly she remarks,
11
Ready. 0 Then you ask spectator to read aloud what
is on the paper. He does so, you point to the medium
Page 14
and- sh·e·-raises- sl"
S:teup, witn~writi·ng-side" towards--
audience. On the slate is seen the correct number or
word! Just one detail is in order here. The medium
must do her writing very roughly as though she were
actually blindfolded. I always advised my partner to
close her eyes when she did the writing, and then do
it the best she could. Then it was genuine, and not
faked.
Now you step to bowl again, reach 1n, and sscure
tip on thumb, at the same time picking up the second
piece of paper. Hand this paper to another spectator
to open. Ask him if it is the number or picture , or
word or picture, whichever the case may be. The med-
ium writes again, and the effect repeated as before.
You have pocketed the thumb· tip mean\vhile.
For the last slip, explain that while everyone is
able to visualise figureo and words when hearing any
of them read, it is next to the impossible to do the
same with a picture, as everyone may draw the so.me
object a bit differently. Hand the second slate and
chalk to a spectator near the front, and ask him to
go over to the bowl and take out the last, or pic-
ture 8lip. Th1s ls a nice point, as you, apparently
never touch the paper itself. Then have hiDl open it
and look at the picture. Then he ls to duplicate the
sketch, drawing, or diagram very large on the slate
he holds, and the medium,(in the meanwhile she has
cleaned off one side of the slate she holds} will at
the same time, make a drawing on her slate. You then
merely watch the proceedings, and when the spectator
has finished, you step over to medium, remove blind-
fold, and she steps down towards front, holding her
slate close against body. The spectator steps beside
her, shows his drawing to everyone, and as a cl1.ma.x
the medium turns her slate to show the same picture !
Whereupon, you dis~iss the spectator with thanks
and both the medium and yourself take well earned
bows, collect your remuneration, and go your ways.
